PART I.

*' Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Which thou ow'dst yesterday."

VOL. I.

OF

DEAN MAITLAND.

CHAPTER I.

The grey afternoon was wearing on to its
chill close ; the dark cope of immovable dun
cloud overhead seemed to contract and grow
closer to the silent world beneath it ; and the
steep, chalky hill, leading from the ancient
village, with its hoary castle and church, up
over the bleak barren down, was a weary
thing to climb.

The solitary traveller along that quiet
road moved her limbs more slowly, and
felt her breath coming more quickly and
shortly, as she mounted higher and higher.

and the grey Norman tower lessened and
gradually sank out of sight behind her. But
she toiled bravely on between the high
tangled hedges, draped with great curtains
of traveller's joy, now a mass of the silvery
seed-feathers which the country children call
old man's beard," and variegated with the
deep-purple leaves of dogwood, the crimson
of briony and roseberry, the gleaming black
of privet, and the gold and orange reds of ivy
hangings ; and, though her pace slackened to
a mere crawl, she did not pause till she reached
the brow of the hill, where the hedges ceased,
and the broad white high-road wound over
the open down.

Here, where the enclosed land ended, was
a five-barred gate in the wild hedgerow, and
here the weary pedestrian, depositing the
numerous parcels she carried on the ground
at her feet, rested, her arms supported on the
topmost bar, and her face and the upper
portion of her tall figure traced clearly
against the grey gloomy sky. Some linnets
fluttered out of the hedge beside her, one or

two silent larks sprang np from the turf of
the downland sloping away from the gate,
and some rooks sailed cawing overhead. All
else was still with the weird, dreamy stillness
that hangs over the earth on a day of chill
east-wind haze.

There is a brooding expectancy about such
a day that works strongly on the imagination,
and suggests the dark possibilities of irresistible
Fate. There is an austere poetry in
the purply grey, breathless earth and the
dark, unchanging sky, and a mute pathos in
the quiet hush of weary Nature, thus folding
her hands for rest, which has an unutterable
charm for some temperaments, and touches
far deeper chords than those vibrated by the
brilliance and joyous tumult of life and song
in the pleasant June-time. There is something
of the infinite in the very monotony of
the colouring ; the breathless quiet, the vagueness
of outline, and dimness of the all-enfolding
mist are full of mystery, and invest the most
commonplace objects with romance.

The sense of infinity was deepened in this

case by the vast sweep of the horizon which
bounded our pedestrian's gaze. The grey
fellows and wan stubble-fields sloped swiftly
away from the gate to a bottom of verdant
pastures dotted with trees and homesteads ;
beyond them were more dim fields, and then
a wide belt of forest, principally of firs. To
the right, the valley, in which nestled the
now unseen tower of Chalkburne, widened
out, bounded by gentle hills, till the stream
indicating its direction became a river, on
the banks of which stood the mist-veiled
town of Oldport, the tall tower of whose
church rose light, white, and graceful against
the iron-grey sky, emulating in the glory of
its maiden youth — for it had seen but two
lustres — the hoary grandeur of its Norman
parent at Chalkburne. Beyond the town,
the river rolled on, barge-laden, to the sea,
the faint blue line of which was blurred by
a maze of masts where the estuary formed a
harbour.

To the left of the tired gazer stretched
a wide champaign, rich in woodland, and

bounded in the far distance by two chalky
summits, at whose steep bases surged the
unseen sea, quiet to-day on the surface, but
sullen with the heavy roar of the ground-swell
beneath. Here and there, in the breaks
of wood and forest on the horizon, Alma's
accustomed eyes saw some faint grey touches
which in bright summer were tiny bays of
sapphire sea.

Alma Lee herself made a bright point of
interest in the afternoon greyness, as she
leant wearily, and not ungracefully, on the
gate, her face and figure outlined clearly
against the dark sky. Her dress was a
bright blue, and her scarlet plaid shawl,
fastened tightly about her shoulders, revealed
and suggested, as only a shawl can, a full,
supple form, indicative of youth and health.
Her dark, thick hair was crowned by a small
velvet hat, adorned with a bright bird's
wing ; and her dark eyes and well-formed
features, reposeful and indifferent as they were
at the moment, suggested latent vehemence
and passion. Her hands and feet were large,

the former bare, and wrapped in the gay
shawl for warmth.

Alma was not thinking of the mystery and
infinite possibility suggested by the grey
landscape before her; still less was she dreaming
of the tragic shades Fate was casting
even now upon her commonplace path. Unsuspecting
and innocent she stood, lost in
idle thought, deaf to the steps of approaching
doom, and knowing nothing of the lives that
were to be so tragically entangled in the
mazes of her own. Could she but have had
one glimpse of the swift-coming future, with
what horror would the simple country girl
have started back and struggled against the
first suspicion of disaster !

The silence was presently broken by four
mellow, slowly falling strokes from the grey
belfry of Chalkburne ; then all was still
again, and Alma began to pick up her
parcels. Suddenly she heard the sound of
hoofs and wheels, and, dropping her packages,
turned once more to the gate, and appeared a
very statue of contemplation by the time a

dog-cart, drawn by a high-stepping chesnut,
and driven by a spick-and-span groom, fair-haired
and well featured, drew up beside her,
and the groom sprang lightly to the ground.

Come, Alma," he said, approaching the
pensive figure, which appeared unconscious
of him, " you won't say no now ? You look
dog-tired."

'' I shall say exactly what I please, Mr.
Judkins/' she replied.

Then say yes, and jump up. Chesnut
is going like a bird, and will have you at
Swaynestone in no time. Do say yes, do ee
now."

'' Thank you, I intend to walk."

^^ Just think what a way it is to walk to
Swaynestone, and you so tired."

I am not tired."

Then, why are you leaning on that there
gate ? "

I am admiring the view, since you are so
very inquisitive."

Oh Lord ! the view ! There's a deal
more view to be seen from the seat of this

here cart, and it's pleasant flying along like a
bird. Come now, Alma, let me help you up."

Mr. Judkins, will you have the kindness
to drive on ? I said in Oldport that I intended
to walk. It's very hard a person mayn't do
as she pleases without all this worry," replied
Alma, impatiently.

Wilful woman nun have her way,"
murmured the young fellow, ruefully. " Well,
let me carry them parcels home, at least."

I intend to carry them myself, thank
you. Good afternoon ; " and Alma turned
her back upon the mortified youth, and
appeared lost in the charms of landscape.

Well, darn it ! if you won't come, you
won't ; that's flat ! " the young man exclaimed
angrily. ^' This is your nasty pride, Miss
Alma ; but, mind you, pride goes before a
fall," he added, springing to his perch, and
sending the high-stepper flying along the
level down-road like the wind, with many
expressions of anger and disappointment, and
sundry backward glances at Alma, who gazed
with unruffled steadiness on the fields.

I wonder," lie mused, " why a person
always hates a person who makes love to
them ? I liked Charlie Judkins well enough
before he took on with this love-nonsense."

And she did not know that by declining
that brief drive she had refused the one
chance of escaping all the subsequent tragedy,
and that her fate was even now approaching
in the growing gloom.

But what is this fairy music ascending from
the direction of Chalkburne, and growing
clearer and louder every moment ? Sweet,
melodious, drowsily cheery, ring out five
tiny merry peals of bells, each peal accurately
matched with the other, and consisting of eve
tones. The music comes tumbling down in
sweet confusion, peal upon peal, chime breaking
into chime, in a sort of mirthful strife of
melody, through all which a certain irregular
rhythm is preserved, which keeps the blending
harmonies from degenerating into dissonance.
With a sweep and a clash and a mingling of
sleepy rapture, the elfin music filled all the
quiet hazy air around Alma, and inspired her

with vague pleasure as she turned her head
listening in the direction of the dulcet sounds,
and discerned their origin in the nodding
head of a large silk-coated cart-horse looming
through the haze.

He was a handsome, powerful fellow, stepping
firmly up the hill with the happy consciousness
of doing good service which seems
to animate all willing, well-behaved horses,
and emerging into full view at the head of
four gallant comrades, each nodding and stepping
as cheerily as himself, with a ponderous
waggon behind them. Each horse wore his
mane in love-locks, combed over his eyes,
the hair on the massive neck being tied here
and there with bows of bright woollen ribbon.
Each tail was carefully plaited at its spring
from the powerful haunches for a few inches ;
then it was tied with another bright knot,
beneath which the remainder of the tail swept
in untrammelled abundance almost down to
the pasterns, the latter hidden by long
fringes coming to the ground. The ponderous
harness shone brightly on the broad, shining

brown bodies, and, as each horse carried a
leading-rein, thickly studded with brass
bosses and fastened to the girth, and there
was much polished brass about headstall,
saddle, and collar, they presented a very
glittering appearance.

But the crowning pride of every horse, and
the source of all the music which was then
witching the wintry air, was the lofty erection
springing on two branching wires from every
collar, and towering far above the pricked ears
of the proud steeds. These wires bore a long
narrow canopy placed at right angles to the
horse's length, and concealing beneath a deep
fringe of bright scarlet worsted the little peal
of nicely graduated bells. Balls of the same
bright worsted studded the roof of the little
canopy, and finished the gay trappings of
the sturdy rustics, who bore these accumulated
honours with a sort of meek rapture.

The waggon these stout fellows drew needed
all their bone and sinew to bring it up and
down the steep, hilly roads. Its hind-wheels
were as high as Alma's head ; their massive

felloes, shod with double tires, were a foot
broad ; the naves were like moderate-sized
casks. High over the great hind wheels arched
the waggon's ledge in a grand sweep, descending
with a boat-like curve to the smaller front
wheels, whence it rose again, ending high
over the wheeler's haunches, like the prow of
some old ship over the sea. A massive thing
of solid timber it was, with blue wheels and
red body, slightly toned by weather. On
the front, in red letters on a yellow ground,
was painted, " Richard Long, Melbourne,
1860."

Two human beings, who interrupted the
fairy music with strange gutturals and wild
ejaculations to the steeds, mingled with
sharp whip-cracks, accompanied this imposing
equipage. One was a tall, straight-limbed
man in fustian jacket and trousers, a coat
slung hussar-wise from his left shoulder, and
a cap worn slightly to one side, with a pink
chrysanthemum stuck in it. His sunburnt
face was almost the hue of his yellow-brown
curls and short beard ; his eyes were blue ;

and his strong, laboured gait resembled that
of his horses. The other was a beardless lad,
his satellite, similarly arrayed, minus the
flower. Sparks flew from the road when the
iron hoofs and heavy iron boots struck an
occasional flint. When the great waggon
was fairly landed on the brow of the hill, the
horses were brought to by means of sundry
strange sounds and violent gestures on the
part of the men, and, with creaking and
groaning and halloing, the great land-ship
came to anchor, the elfin chimes dropped into
silence, interrupted by little bursts of melody
at every movement of the horses, and the lad
seized a great wooden mallet and thrust
beneath the hind wheel. The carter leant
placidly against the ponderous shaft with his
face to Alma, and struck a match to kindle
his replenished pipe.

Coldish," he observed, glancing with
surly indifference towards her.

It is cold," returned Alma, drawing her
shawl cosily round her graceful shoulders ;
while the wheeler, stimulated into curiosity

by his master's voice, turned round to look at
Alma, and shook out a little peal of bells,
which roused the emulation of his four
brothers, who each shook out a little chime
on his own account ; while the waggoner
glanced slowly round the vast horizon, and,
after some contemplation, said in a low,
bucolic drawl —

Wine to train, I 'lows."

It looks like it," replied Alma. " How is
your wife, William ? "

The waggoner again interrogated the
horizon for inspiration, and, after some
thought, answered with a jerk, " Deuce the
same."

I hope she will soon be about again," said
Alma ; and the leader emphasized her words
by shaking a little music from his canopy,
and thus stimulated his brothers to do likewise.
" You come home lighter than you set
out," she added, looking at the nearly empty
waggon, which she had seen pass in the
morning filled with straw.

William turned slowly round and gazed

inquiringly at the waggon, as if struck by a
new idea, for some moments ; then he said,
Ay." After this he looked thoughtfully
at Alma and her parcels for some moments,
until his soul again found expression in the
words, " Like a lift ? " the vague meaning
of which was elucidated by the pointing of
his whip towards the waggon.

Alma assented, and with the waggoner's
assistance soon found herself, with all her
merchandise, comfortably installed in the
great waggon, which was empty save for a
few household and farming necessaries from
Oldport. Before mounting — a feat, by the
way, not unworthy of a gymnast — she stroked
the wheel horse's thick silken coat admiringly.


You do take care of your horses at
Malbourne, William," she said. " I heard
father say this morning he never saw a better-grooved
and handsomer team than yours."

William went on silently arranging Alma's
seat, and stowing her parcels for her ; but a
smile dawned at the corners of his mouth,

VOL. I. c

and gradually spread itself over the whole of
his face, and his pleasure at length found a
vent, when he reached the ground, in a sounding
thwack of his broad hand on the wheeler's
massive flank — a thwack that set the bells
a-tremble on the horse's neck, and sent a
sympathetic shiver of music through all the
emulous brotherhood.

Ay," he observed, with a broad smile of
admiration along the line of softly swaying
tails and gently moving heads, with their
nostrils steaming in the cold air ; " he med
well say that."

Ay," echoed Jem, the satellite, removing
the sledge mallet from the wheel and striding
to the front, with a reflection of his chief's
pleasure in his ruddy face as he glanced
affectionately at the team, " that he med."

It was not Alma's admiration which
evoked such satisfaction — she was but a
woman, and naturally could not tell a good
horse from a donkey ; but her father, Ben
Lee, Sir Lionel Swaynestone's coachman, a
man who had breathed the air of stables

from his cradle, and who drove the splendid
silk-coated, silver-harnessed steeds in the
Swaynestone carriages, his opinion was
something. With a joyous crack of the
whip, and a strange sound from the recesses
of his throat, William bid his team " Gee-up ! "

The mighty hoofs took hold of the road,
the great wheels slowly turned, a shower of
confused harmony fell in dropping sweetness
from the bells, and with creaking and
groaning, and nodding heads, and rhythmic
blending of paces and music, the waggon
lumbered ponderously along the level chalk
road which led, unenclosed by hedge or fence,
over the open down.

To ride in a waggon with ease, and at the
same time enjoy the surrounding landscape
without a constant exercise of gymnastic skill
in balancing and counter-balancing the body
in response to the heavy swaying and
jerking of the unwieldy machine, is difficult ;
to sit on the ledge is to be an acrobat ; to lie
on the floor is to see nothing but sky, besides
having one's members violently wrenched

one from the other. Alma, however, was
very comfortably placed on a pile of sacks,
which served as an arm-chair, deadened the
jerking power of the motion, and left her
head and shoulders above the ledge, so that
she could well see the grey surrounding
landscape in the deepening haze.

She leant back with a feeling of agreeable
languor, wrapped her hands in her shawl,
and gazed dreamily on the down rising steeply
to the left, and forming, where chalk had
been quarried in one place, a miniature precipice,
crested with overhanging copse, rich
in spring with fairy treasures of violets in
white sheets over the moss, clusters of
primroses and oxlips among the hazel stumps,
blue lakes of hyacinth, and waving forests of
anemone ; and she gazed on the sloping fields,
farmsteads, and bounding forest to the right,
lulled by the steady music of the bells,
among which she heard from time to time
William's satisfied growl of " Ay, he med
well say that," and the occasional song of
Jem, as he trudged along by the leader —

For to ploTigli, and to sow, and to reap, and to mow,
Is the work of the farmer's bu-oy-oy."

Happy and harmless she looked in her
rustic chariot, as they rolled slowly along in
the gathering gloom, now over a heathy
stretch nearly at the summit of the down,
past a lonely, steep-roofed, red-tiled hostelry,
with a forge cheerily glowing by its side,
whence the anvil-music rose and blended
pleasantly with that of the bell-team, andover
which hung a sign-board bearing the
blacksmith's arms, the hammer, with the
couplet inscribed beneath, " By hammer and
hand, All arts do stand."

Downhill now, with the heavy drag cast
beneath the wheel by mighty efforts on the
part of Jem ; then again on the level road,
with the chalk down always rising to the left,
and falling away to the right ; past farmhouses,
where the cattle stood grouped in the
yard and the ducks quacked for their evening
meal ; then once more down a hill, steep and
difficult, down to the level of a willow-shaded
stream by a copse, outside which daffodils

rioted all over the sloping lea descending to
the brookside in spring ; and then again up
and up, with straining and panting and creaking,
with iron feet pointed into and gripping
the steep chalk road, with louder pealing of
the fairy chimes, whose rhythm grows irregular
and fitful, with strange shouts and
gestures from the men, with " Whip ! " and
Whoa ! " and '' Hither ! " with many pauses,
when the great heads droop, the music stops,
and the mallet is brought into requisition.

Happy and harmless indeed was Alma, the
lashes drooping over her rose-leaf cheeks, her
fancies roving unfettered. She was hoping
to get home betimes, for she had something
nice for father's tea among her parcels, and
she was thinking of the penny periodical
folded up in her basket, and wondering how
the heroine was getting on in the story which
broke off abruptly at such an interesting
moment in the last number. Was the peasant
girl, in whom Alma detected a striking likeness
to herself, really going to marry the poor
young viscount who was so deplorably in

love with her ? She could not help furnishing
the viscount with the form and features
of Mr. Ingram Swaynestone, Sir Lionel's
eldest son, though the latter was fair, while
the viscount happened to be dark.

Now they are at the summit of the steep
hill, and pause to breathe and replenish
pipes. On one side is dense coppice ; on the
other, Swaynestone Park slopes down in
woodland, glade, and park-like meadow to the
sea-bounded horizon. Then on again, up hill
and down dale, past cottage and farmstead,
with the park always sloping away to the
sea on the right. Lights glow cheerily now
from distant cottage windows, and they can
even catch glimpses of lights from the facade
of Swaynestone House between the trees occasionally,
while the merry music peals on in
its drowsy rhythm, and little showers of
sparks rise at the contact of iron-shod wheel
and foot with the flinty road.

They have just passed the entrance-gates of
Swaynestone — lonely gates, unfurnished with
a lodge — and the waggon stops with interrupted

music at some smaller gates on the
other side of the road, where the upland still
rises, not in bare down, but in rich meadow, to
a hanging wood, out of which peeps dimly in
the dusk a small white structure, built with a
colonnade supporting an architrave, to imitate
a G-reek temple — Alma's home.

Ay ! he med well say that," repeated the
waggoner, still digesting the pleasure of
Ben Lee's compliment, and slapping the
wheel-horse's vast flank, so that the fairy
chime began again, and the smack resounded
like an accompaniment to its music. It was
fairly dark in the road ; the misty dusk of
evening was overshadowed by the thick belt
of chestnut, lime, and beech bounding the
park by the roadside ; and the large horn
lantern was handed to Alma to aid her ingathering
her parcels together, and its light
fell upon her bright dark eyes, and rosy,
dimpled cheeks, making her appear more
than ever as if her gaudy dress was but a
disguise assumed for a frolic. Her almond-shaped,
rather melancholy eyes sparkled as

she looked in the young carter's stolid face,
and thanked him heartily.

I have had such a nice ride," she added
pleasantly, and the horses one by one
dropped a bell-note or two to emphasize her
words.

You must gie I a toll for this yere ride,"
returned William, with a look of undisguised,
but not rude admiration.

Alma flushed, and drew back. " How
much do you want ? " she asked, taking out
her purse, and pretending not to understand.

You put that there in your pocket," he
replied, offended, " and gie I a kiss."

Indeed, I shall do nothing of the kind,"
retorted Alma. " Let me get down. I'll
never ride with you again, if I walk till I
drop — that I won't."

But the waggoner insisted on his toll, and
vowed that she should not descend till it was
paid ; and poor Alma protested and stormed
vainly, whilst Jem leaned up against a horse
and laughed, and adjured her to make haste.
Alma burst into tears, wrung her hands, and

wished that she had not been so obdurate to
poor Charlie Judkins. He would not have
been so rude, she knew. Nor, indeed, would
"William have been so persistent had she not
offended him by her unlucky offer of money,
and roused the dogged obstinacy of his class.
She darted to the other side of the waggon,
but in vain ; William was too quick, and she
was just on the point of raising her voice,
in the hope that her father might be near,
when a light, firm step was heard issuing
from the park gates, and a clear and singularly
musical voice broke into the dispute
with a tone of authority.

'' For shame, William Grove ! " it said.
How can you be so cowardly ? Let the
girl go directly. Why, it is Alma Lee,
surely ! "

CHAPTER II.

The speaker emerged into the little circle of
light cast by the lantern — a slight, well-built,
youthful figure of middle height yet commanding
presence, clad in dark grey, with
a round, black straw hat and a neat white
necktie, the frequent costume of a country
curate in those days, when the clerical garb
had not reached so high a stage of evolution
as at present. His beardless face made him
look still younger than he really was ; his
features were refined and clearly cut; his hair
very dark ; and his eyes, the most striking
feature of his face, were of that rare, dazzling
light blue which can only be compared to
a cloudless, noon sky in June, when the pale,
intense blue seems penetrated to overflowing
with floods of vivid light.

I weren't doing no harm," returned the
waggoner, with a kind of surly respect ; " I
died she a ride, and she med so well gie I
a kiss."

And you a married man ! " cried the
indignant young deacon ; " for shame ! "

There ain't no harm in a kiss," growled
William, with a sheepish, discomfited look,
while he stood aside and suffered the newcomer
to help Alma in her descent.

There is great harm in insulting a
respectable young woman, and taking advantage
of her weakness. As for a kiss, it
is not a seemly thing between young people
who have no claim on each other, though
there may be no positive harm in it. You
ought to know better, William."

There ain't no harm for the likes of we,"
persisted the waggoner. ^' 'Ain't as though
Alma was a lady ; she's only a poor man's
daughter."

And a poor man's daughter has as much
right to men's respect as a duchess," cried
the young fellow, with animation. "I wonder

you can say sacri a thing, Grove. And
you a poor man yourself, with a little
daughter of your own ! How would you
like her to be kissed against her will ? "

William muttered to the effect that " Anybody
med kiss she" — which was true enough,
as she had seen but three summers yet — and
went on twining his whip with a cowed,
injured look, while Alma gazed in awed
admiration at her handsome young champion,
whose kindling eyes seemed to send forth
floods of pale-blue light in the gloom.

There is something so unmanly in attacking
a girl's self-respect," continued the
eager champion. " I did not think you
capable of it, William. A stout fellow like
you, a man I always liked. Go home to
your wife, and think better of it. I will see
you across the meadow myself. Alma, though
it is hard that a girl cannot be abroad alone
at this hour."

So saying, the young Bayard possessed
himself of sundry of Alma's parcels, and
with a pleasant " Good night, Jem," turned

his back on the waggon and opened the gate,
through which Alma passed quickly, followed
by her protector, while the cumbrous waggon
went on its way to the rhythmic jangle of
the sweetly clashing bells, and William
trudged stolidly on with his accustomed whip-cracking
and guttural exclamations, murmuring
from time to time with a mortified
air, " There ain't no harm in a kiss ! " And,
indeed, he meant no harm, though he took
care not to relate the incident to his wife ; it
was only his rough tribute to Alma's unaccustomed
beauty, and signified no more thana
gracefully turned allusion in higher circles.
And Mr. Cyril must go assailing of she,"
he added, " as though she didn't look too
high already. But pride goes before a fall,
as I've heard 'un say." Ominous repetition
of Judkins's words !

Alma, in the mean time, murmured her
thanks to her chivalrous protector, and
stepped up the dewy meadow with a beating
breast and a flushing cheek, her ears tingling
with the words, " A poor man's daughter has

as much right to respect as a duchess," her
heart swelling at the memory of the courtesy
with which Maitland handed her down from
the waggon and carried half her parcels ; she
knew that a veritable duchess would not
have been treated with more honour. All
her life she had known Cyril Maitland. She
had sported with him over that very lea,
where the tall yellow cowslips nodded in
spring, and where they had pelted each other
with sweet, heavy cowslip-balls ; she had
kissed and cuffed him many a time, though
he was always " Master Cyril " to the coachman's
child ; and, as they grew up, had been
inclined to discuss him with a half-respectful,
half-familiar disparagement, such as well-known
objects receive. Never till that fatal
evening had his grace of mind and person
and the singular charm of his manner keenly
touched her. But when he stood there in
the lantern's dim rays, looking so handsome
and so animated by the impulsive chivalry
with which he defended her, and she heard
the musical tones and refined accents of the

voice pleading her cause and the cause of
her sex and her class, a new spirit came to
her — a spirit of sweetness and of terror,
which set all her nerves quivering, and
opened a new world of wonder and beauty
to her entranced gaze. As holy as a young
archangel, and as beautiful, he seemed to the
simple girl's dazzled thoughts, and she felt"
that no harm could ever C(jme to her in that
charmed presence, no pain ever touch her.

All unconscious of the tumult of half-conscious
emotion awakening beside him,
Cyril Maitland walked on, chatting with
pleasant ease on all sorts of homely topics,
in no wise surprised at his companion's faltering,
incoherent replies, which he attributed
to the embarrassment from which he had just
delivered her. The dulcet clashing of the bells
grew fainter, and then rose on a sudden gust
of wind just as they reached the door of the
strangely built white house, before the square
windows of which rose a small colonnade of
white pillars. Alma opened the door, and a
ruddy glow rushed out upon her, while

within a cheerful little home-scene presented
itself. A small table, covered with a clean
white cloth, touched with rose by the firelight,
and spread with tea-things, was drawn up
before the glowing hearth, and a warm aroma
of tea and toast greeted the tired, hungry
gh^l. Before the fire sat a strong, middle-aged
man in an undress livery, consisting
partly of a sleeved waistcoat, busily engaged
in making toast; while a neatly dressed woman
moved about the warm parlour, adding a few
touches to the table.

Just in time, Alma," called out the man,
without turning his head.

And a pretty time, too," added the
woman, who was Alma's stepmother. " Why
hadn't you a come along with Charlie Judkins
this hour agone ? Gadding about till it's

dark night Oh, Mr. Cyril, I beg your

pardon, sir ! " and she dropped a curtsey,
while her husband turned, and rose.

May I come in ? " asked Cyril, pausing,
hat in hand, and smiling his genial smile.
Your tea is very tempting, Mrs. Lee."

VOL. I. D

'' Come in and welcome, Master Cyril,"
said the coachman, as Cyril, with the air of
an accustomed guest, placed his hat on a
side-table adorned with the family Bible,
workbox, and tea-trays, and took the chair
Mrs. Lee handed him.

Why, I've not had tea with you for an
age," continued Cyril, stroking a large tabby
cat, which sprang purring upon his knee
the moment he was seated ; " and I don't
deserve any now, since I come straight from
the drawing-room at Swaynestone, where the
rites of the teapot were being celebrated.
But the ladies there have no idea of tea-making,
and I only had two cups, and was
tantalized with a vague sketch of a piece of
bread and butter."

swell, you always were a rare one for
tea. Master Cyril," returned his hostess.
If I had but known you were coming, I'd
'a made some of them hot cakes. But there's
jam in plenty, some blackberry as Alma made
this fall."

Alma came by Long's waggon," he explained,

when she had withdrawn to lay
aside her hat and shawl ; *' and as I chanced
to he at the gate when she got down, I saw
her across the meadow."

Thank 'ee kindly, Master Cyril. I don't
like her to be out alone at nights," said Ben
Lee, " though, to be sure, there's only our
own people about on the estate."

Before Alma's mind there arose a vision of
the Swaynestone drawing-room as she had
seen it once at tea-time when she was summoned
to speak to the young ladies about
some needlework she was doing for them.
She saw in imagination the long range of
windows with their rich curtains ; the mirrors
and couches ; the cabinets filled with rare and
costly bric-à-brac ; the statuettes and pictures ;
the painted ceiling of the long, lofty room ;
the beautiful chimney piece of sculptured
Parian marble ; the rich glow from the hearth
throwing all kinds of warm reflections upon
the splendid apartment, and principally upon
the little table, laden with silver and priceless
china, by the fire ; and the charming

group of ladies in their stylish dress and
patrician beauty, half seen in the fire-lit
dusk. It was a world of splendour to
Alma's unaccustomed eyes — a place in which
an ordinary mortal could in no wise sit down
with any comfort, without, indeed, a something
almost amounting to sacrilege ; a world
in which the perfume of hot-house flowers
took away the bated breath, and in which no
footfall dared echo, where voices were low
and musical, and manners full of courteous
ease ; a world inhabited by beings untouched
by common cares, with other thoughts, and
softer, more beautifully adorned lives ; a world
which Alma entered with a burdensome sense
of being out of place, in which she only
spoke when spoken to, and where she heard
herself discussed as if she were a thing
without hearing.

What ! is this Lee's daughter ? " Lady
Swaynestone had asked, putting up her gold-rammed
glasses, and taking a quiet survey of
Alma and her blushes.

Surely you remember little Alma Lee,

mother," Ethel Swaynestone replied. " She
has shot up, you see, like the rest of us."

Ah, to be sure ! How the time goes,
Ethel ! How is your mother, Alma ? And
she is embroidering Maude's handkerchiefs ?
A very nice employment for a young woman.
But I don't like her gown ; it is far too
smart for a coachman's daughter."

Nonsense, mother dear. Why shouldn't
she be smart, if she likes ? But if you want
really to look nice. Alma, you must not wear
violet and pale blue together," said the fair-haired
Maude, with a sweet look of interest
in Alma's appearance that won her heart,
wounded as it was by " her ladyship's " want
of consideration.

Very glad was Alma to retire from that
august presence — almost as glad as she had
been to enter it. And Mr. Cyril had walked
straight from the splendid apartment, from
the light of Miss Ethel and Miss Maude's
eyes, and the sound of their sweet, cultured
voices, with a disparaging remark upon their
tea, and chosen Alma's own humble everyday

dwelling and homely meal in the narrow
room in preference. This filled her with a
strange, indefinable emotion, half pleasure
and half pain. Some instinct told her that
he was the same welcomed, admired guest
there as here ; that he spoke with the same
easy charm to Lady Swaynestone and her
daughters and the high-born visitors he
chanced to meet there as to her parents and
herself. And could her imagination have
borne her into Cyril's future, she would have
seen him, as he subsequently was, a welcomed
frequent guest at royal tables, where his
beautiful voice and perfect manner cast the
same glamour over the palace atmosphere as
over that of the coachman's little dwelling.

Quickly as Alma returned to the parlour,
she yet found time to arrange her rich hair
and add a necklace of amber beads, thus
imparting a kind of gipsy splendour to her
dark face, and other little trifles to her dress ;
and very handsome she looked in the firelight
— for the one candle but emphasized the
gloom — with that new sparkle in her eyes

and flush on lier cheek. It was Cyril who
recommended her to toast the sausages she
had brought from Oldport instead of frying
them ; he and Lilian had often cooked them
so in the schoolroom at home, he said, when
Mrs. Lee demurred at trusting to his culinary
skill. It was Cyril also who suggested the
agreeable addition of cold potatoes warmed
up.

'' Well, Master Cyril, I never thought to
see you teach my wife cooking," laughed
Ben, paying a practical compliment to his
skill. " Hand Master Cyril some tea, Alma ;
and do yon taste the sausages, my girl.
Why, where's your appetite after tramping
all the way into Oldport, and nothing but a
bit of bread and cheese since breakfast ?
You shan't walk there and back again anymore
; that and the shopping is too much.
And so you came along part of the way in
Long's waggon, when you might have been
tooled along by the best horse in our stables,
and Judkins fit to cry about it. Now, don't
you call that silly, Mr. Cyril ? "

"Every one to his taste, Ben. I prefer
the dog-cart."

And it ain't every day a girl like Alma
gets a chance of riding behind such a horse
or beside such a young man," added Mrs.
Lee, severely. *' But there's people as never
knows where their bread's buttered."

*' There are people," said Alma, with a
toss of her graceful head, " as know what
they've a mind to do, and do it."

And there's headstrong girls as lives to
repent," retorted the stepmother.

Ay, you was always a wilful one,
Alma," said her father ; " but if you don't
look out you'll be a old maid, and you won't
like that. And a smarter fellow than Charlie
Judkins never crossed a horse. No drink
with Charlie — goes to church regular, and
has a matter of fifty pound in the bank, and
juts by every week. And Sir Lionel ready
to find him a cottage and raise his wages
when he marries."

Well, let him marry, then," returned
Alma, airily; "don't want to prevent him.

I dare say Mr. Cyril would be kind enough
to perform the ceremony, if he wished it."

I should have the greatest pleasure,
Alma, particularly if he chose a certain
friend of mine. For, as your father says,
Charlie is a really good fellow, as warmhearted
a man as I know, and deserves a
good wife."

There are plenty of good wives to be
had," returned Alma ; " no doubt Mr.
Judkins will soon find one, especially ashe
has so many friends to put in a word
for him."

'ray, and he might have the pick of girls
in Malbourne, and five miles round," added
Mrs. Lee.

And Charlie won't stand Alma's hoity-toity
airs much longer," chimed in her father.
He was terrible angry this afternoon, and
talked about stuck-up faggots, he did. And
you rising twenty-two, and refused Mr.
Ingram's own man. I don't know what 'd
be good enough for ye. Alma, I don't, without
'twas Mr. Ingram himself. Ain't she a
wilful one, Mr. Cyril ? "

We mustn't be hard upon her, Ben.
She has a right to refuse a man if she doesn't
care for him. But any girl might think
twice before refusing Charge Judkins," said
Cyril, in his gentle, gracious way. " I was
to tell you, Mrs. Lee," he added, "that weare
running short of eggs at the Rectory, and
ask if your fowls were laying enough to
spare ? "

Our have mostly give over laying, but
Mrs. Maitland shall have a dozen so soon as
Alma can get over tomorrow. Why, you
don't bide at the Rectory now, sir ? "

No. I have rooms in my own parish at
Shotover," he replied ; " but I am always
running in and out at home. It is only a
mile and a half, you know ; and Shotover is
such a tiny parish, it leaves us very idle."

That's well for your book-learning, Mr.
Cyril. I reckon you have to know a good
deal more before you can be priest next
Trinity. When are ye coming over to
Malbourne to preach to we ? "

Oh, not for a long while, Ben. I feel as

if I could never have the assurance to preach
to all you grave and reverend seigniors. I
don't even preach at Shotover, if I can help
it," he replied, with an air of ingenuous
modesty that became him well.

You nun get over that, sir," continued
Ben ; " you nun think of Timothy. He
was to let no man despise his youth, you
mind."

"" Certainly, Ben. But I have only been
ordained three months, and I may well hold
my tongue till I have learned a little wisdom.
Ah, Ben, you can't imagine what a dreadful
ordeal it is to preach one's first sermon ! I
feel cold water running down my back dien
I think of it. They say my face was whiter
than my surplice, and my voice sounded so
loud and strange in my ears I thought it
must frighten people, instead of which they
could scarcely hear me."

Gad-a-mercy, Mr. Cyril, you'll soon get
over that," said Mrs. Lee, in a tone of consolation.
" That's just how I felt the first
time I acted parlour maid, Jane being took

ill, and a party to dinner, and I housemaid.
You mid 'a seen the glasses knock up agen
the decanter when I filled them, the jellies
all a-tremble with the palpitations — not to
mention the first time I walked into Malbourne
Church with Lee, and made sure I
should a dropped every step I took up the
aisle, and all them boys staring, and your pa
beginning ' the wicked man.' But law ! I
thinks nothing of it now."

You may still hear my teeth chatter in
Shotover Church, nevertheless, Mrs. Lee,"
replied Cyril, softly stroking the cat, which
still nestled purring on his knee, and casting
an amused glance on Mrs. Lee and on Alma,
whose face expressed the most sympathetic
interest. '' But, as you say, I shall get over
it in time. And, indeed, if the congregation
consisted of Alma, and Lilian, and
Mr. Ingram Swaynestone, and his sisters,
I shouldn't mind preaching at Malbourne.
Fellow sinners of my own age are not
so appalling."

Ay, with a head like your, you med bea

bishop some day," observed Lee, thoughtfully.
" What s this yere thing they made
ye at college ? soma to do with quarrelling ? "

A wrangler."

Ah ! You may depend upon it, it's a fine
thing to be a wrangler. Mr. Ingram, now,
they only made he a rustic ; but he was at
t'other place — Oxford, they calls it."

''He was rusticated," said Cyril, gravely.
That is not so advantageous as being made
a wrangler."

You see, I was right, after all, mother,"
Alma interposed ; '' and you always would
have it that Mr. Cyril was a manger. As
if they had mangles at Cambridge ! "

You'd better be less forward with your
tongue, and get on with your vittles, miss.
Why, bless the girl, she's eat nothing, and
if that ain't the third time sleeve put sugar
into the milk-jug by mistake ! Why, father,
whatever's come to her ? "

Alma blushed prettily, but her confusion
almost amounted to distress ; and Cyril, with
his ready tact, again drew attention from her.

*' You must not imagine," lie said, " that I
have to pass my time in strife and dissension
because I am a wrangler. Quite the contrary.
Thank you for the tea, Mrs. Lee. Good
night, Ben ; " and, placing the cat very
gently on the warm hearth, and shaking hands
with his hosts, Cyril rose, took his hat, and
followed Alma out into the darkness.

She bore the candle, and by its light guided
him to the little wicket at the end of the
garden, where, with a curtsey, she bid him
good night.

Good night, Alma," he returned carelessly,
and stepped briskly down the dark meadow,
the grass of which was cried now by frost ;
while Alma remained at the wicket, that he
might have the benefit of the candle's feeble
ray.

When he was half-way across, he suddenly
stopped and turned.

Oh, Alma ! " he cried, retracing his steps,
when she looked up with startled inquiry in
his face, " I quite forgot the very thing I
came for." Here he paused, overcome with

surprise at the vivid, tense expression of
Alma's bright face, and a ray of illumination
shot over the something he had observed in
the house, the absent manner and the lack of
appetite, and accounted for her disparagement
of the enamoured Judkins. By these signs
he knew that Alma was in love with some
other swain. " I quite forgot Miss Lilian's
message to you. My sister is getting up a
Bible-class for young women, and she wishes
you to join. She is to hold it in her room
at the Rectory after evensong on Sunday
afternoons. Will you come ? "

Oh, I don't know, Mr. Cyril ! You see,
I should be dark home these winter nights,"
returned Alma, hesitating and blushing, and
looking up at Cyril and down on the frosted
grass and up again.

Well, you can talk it over with Miss
Lilian when you bring the eggs. I think we
might get over the difficulty of getting home
in the dark. If that was all, I might see
you home myself"

Oh, Mr. Cyril ! "

There was a quiver and flash and illumination
in the words and look of the simple,
unconscious girl which shot like electric
flame through her interlocutor's frame, and
made him speechless. The blue radiance from
his eyes mingled for a moment with the dark
fire of Alma's, and a strange, unaccustomed
tremor, that was not all pain, set his pulses
beating as they were not used to beat, and
stirred all the currents of his blood.

Good night, Alma," he said shortly, and
in a voice so unlike his own that the girl
stood petrified in pained amazement ; and he
turned, and sped swiftly over the crisp grass
to the gate, glad to be out of the influence
of the solitary candle's dim light.

He let the gate fall-to with a clash which
made it vibrate backwards and forwards for
some minutes before it found rest, and strode
rapidly over the dark highway beneath the
trees.

What have I done ? " he muttered, with a
beating heart. " Oh, my God ! I meant no
harm. What have I done ? "

Yet the warm, delicious glow still lingered,
paining him, in his breast, and he strode on.
with his head bent down, humbled and
wretched. His soul was yet spotless as the
untrodden snow ; all his hopes and tastes
were innocent ; the fierce flame of temptation
had never yet cast its scorching glare upon
him, hitherto he had deemed himself invulnerable.
In his trouble, he put his hand
instinctively in his pockets, where nestled as
usual the rubbed covers of his " Visitations
and Prayers for the Sick," and other devotional
books, and was comforted. He lifted
his head, and felt in his breast-pocket for a
letter, the pressure of which, though he could
not read it beneath that dark dome of solid
night, fully restored the serenity to his face.
It began, " Dearest Cyril," and ended, " Ever
affectionately yours, Marion Everard ; " it
alluded to the pains of separation, and the
hopes expressed by Cyril of a possible
marriage in a year's time.

They had been engaged a whole year,
and the necessity of waiting another year

VOL. I. E

before marriage was the tragedy of their
young lives. A year seemed an eternity
to them, and the life they passed apart
from each other no life. A vision of
Marion's gentle face brightened the curtain
of thick darkness spread before Cyril. He
recalled her tones and looks with a rush of
sweet affection — all the tender looks she had
ever given him, and they were many ; but
he could not recall any one look that resembled
the glance of fervid, unquenchable
passion which flashed from Alma's tell-tale
eyes in that fatal moment at the gate. Such
a look he had beheld in no woman's eyes ;
such a look, he feared, in the narrowness of
his serene purity, could light no good
woman's eyes.

He was wrong. The flame which burnt
in poor, innocent Alma's breast, and which
her guileless nature so rashly and unconsciously
betrayed, descended like a celestial
glory upon her life with a purifying and
strengthening power, which could have lifted
her to unimagined summits of heroism.

There are people whose lives are never
touched by passion, and who, when they
come in contact with it, recognize only its
strength, which they dread, and condemn its
mysteries as baleful. Such was Cyril in
these white young days of his before any
shadow fell upon his sunny, safe path. Such
was not Cyril in after-days, when the agony
of the penitent and the evildoer found a
responsive echo in his heart, and made him
pitiful and lenient in judging character and
discriminating motives. But to-night, in
spite of the momentary glow for which he
so despised himself, he drew the robe of the
Pharisee about his upright soul, and cast a
stone of condemnation upon the sufferer as he
passed her swiftly by.

A Iras remained statue-like, with her solitary
light painting a feeble halo on the all-encompassing
gloom, until Cyril's steps had ceased
to echo along the lonely highway, and her
mother called to her to bring back the candle
and shut the door.

As soon as she had obeyed, she found a

pretext for going to lier room, and there,
sitting down on the edge of the bed in the
dark, she burst into tears.

I am tired, and William Grove frightened
me," she said to herself; and a few minutes
later she was at needlework in the parlour,
singing like any wild bird.

CHAPTER Il

A WARM glimmer of ruddy light on the thick
darkness told Cyril of the approach of the
wheelwright's house and shop, and, passing
this and descending the hill, he became aware
of the rich crimson which marked the lower
windows of the Sun Inn, and found himself
at the end of the wheelwright's yard, at the
meeting of four roads. Opposite the Sun,
and coloured by its light, a sign-post reared
itself at the corner, oblique, and appearing to
gesticulate madly with its outspread arms.
This corner turned, all the village sparkled
out in a little constellation of cottage casements
before his gaze ; and there, beyond the
brook, which murmured faintly in the stillness,
the Rectory windows shone out among masses
of foliage, or rather of branches, behind which

the grey cliiircli spire lifted itself unseen in the
mirk. As soon as Cyril's foot was within
the gate, a sudden illumination from the hall
door, which simultaneously opened, poured
itself upon the drive, and showed him the
outline of a woman's young and graceful
figure in the porch.

Did you hear me coming, Lilian ? " asked
he, entering the house. " Your hearing must
indeed be acute."

Did we hear him, Mark Antony ? " echoed
Lilian, addressing a magnificent black cat,
with white breast and paws, which had been
sitting upon the step at her feet, and gazing
with grave expectancy down the drive till
Cyril reached the door, when he rose, and
respectfully greeted him with elevated tail
and gentle mews, interspersed with purring.
You know that puss and I have an extra
sense, which tells us when you are coming,"
she replied lightly, as she passed her arm
through his, and led him through the little
hall into the drawing-room, on the threshold
of which a terrier and a pug sprang out to

greet the new-comer with short barks of joy
and sudden bounds and various wild expressions
of delight — an indiscreet behaviour,
quietly rebuked by two swift but dignified
strokes of Mark Antony's white velvet paw,
which sent the heedless animals, with dismal
yelps and mortified tails, to a respectful
distance.

A lady lay on a sofa near the fire, and a
boy and a girl of some eight and nine years
rolled on the hearth rug with some toys.
These children, with Cyril and Lilian, who
were twins, constituted the sole remainder of
Mrs. Maitland's once too numerous family.
What with bearing and rearing them all, and
the sorrow of losing so many, her strength was
now exhausted, and the prime of her life was
passed chiefly on that sofa, among its warm
rugs. Cyril bent to kiss her, and a look of
pride and joy lighted her pale, refined face as
she gazed upon him.

The children sprang upon Cyril, and he,
having caressed them, took a seat by Lilian,
who was at the writing-table, from which she
had risen on his approach.

Will it do ? " he asked, gazing upon some
manuscript before her.

I think so," she replied. " I have drawn
a line through the most ornate passages. But
you must really try and adapt yourself to
your congregation, Cyril. This goes completely
over their heads. Be less elaborate,
and speak from your heart, simply and
honestly."

"The discipline which turns out wranglers,"
observed Cyril, with a dry little smile, " does
not train popular rustic preachers."

Cyril's sermons again ? " asked Mrs. Maitland.
" Lilian should compose them entirely,
I think. And yet I am wrong, for I doubt if
either of you could do anything without the
other."

The twins smiled, knowing this to be
perfectly true. They were alike, and yet
different. Lilian's features were fuller than
Cyril's ; her eyes softer and of a grey colour,
but they met the gazer with an even more
powerful electric thrill than Cyril's light blue
orbs ; her hair was many shades lighter than

her brother's ; and while Cyril could not
appear in any assembly without exciting
interest and drawing all eyes to himself,
Lilian had a peculiar manner of pervading
places without attracting the slightest observation.
Gradually one became aware of an influence,
and only after a long time discovered
the personage from whom it emanated.

No one ever praised Lilian's beauty, though
she possessed all the elements of loveliness.
She shared Cyril's musical voice, but lacked its
more powerful and penetrating tones. Cyril
had beautifully shaped hands, but Lilian's
were like two fair spirits, and formed the
only striking part of her personality ; they
were the first thing the stranger observed in
her, and, once observed, they were never fora
moment forgotten. The twins had shared
everything from their babyhood. The same
tutor demanded equal tasks of brother and
sister ; and when Cambridge separated them,
Lilian still followed the course of her brother's
studies, and would doubtless have been a high
wrangler, had she been submitted to the same

tests as he. The peculiar bond between them
was respected and acknowledged even by
Mark Antony, who was, as his mistress frequently
observed, a cat of considerable force
of character. Besides Lilian, Cyril was the
only human being Mark Antony ever followed
or fawned upon, and it was supposed that his
very strong affections were entirely bestowed
upon the twins.

To strangers this cat was haughtily indifferent;
and, if a visitor took such a
liberty as to stroke his ebon fur, would
rise and walk away with offended majesty.
To the family he observed a distant but
eminently courteous demeanour ; to the
servants he was condescending ; to the
children polite, but never familiar, their respectful
caresses being received with dignified
resignation, and never suffered to go beyond
a certain point ; his bearing to the dogs was
that of a despot. He was a great warrior,
and suffered no other cat to intrude so much
as a paw on the Rectory grounds ; hence
his name.

He never left Lilian while lie was in
the house, and at certain seasons exacted
games of play from her, scorning to play
with any one else, save occasionally when he
unbent so far as to entangle himself wildly in
Winnie's curls, to the great consternation of
the dogs. But Cyril might do anything with
him, and could never do wrong. In this,
Mark Antony differed from his mistress, since
Cyril was the only person with whom she
ever quarrelled, the two having had many
a pitched battle in their childhood, though
they always stood up for each other to
such an extent that, if one was punished by
the deprivation of pudding, the other was
permitted to go on half rations with the
delinquent, and to give one an orange meant
to give each half a one.

'' Did you tell him that the Everard were
here this afternoon ? " Mrs. Maitland added,
the personal pronoun being considered sufficient
indication to Lilian of her brother,
while " her " in addressing Cyril was known
to mean Lilian.

"Were they, indeed? and I away, of
course," grumbled Cyril.

"You may guess Marion's message," laughed
Lilian, in a low aside, at which Cyril looked
pleased.

Well, mother, and the news ? " he added.

Henry's long silence is satisfactorily explained."


Satisfactorily ? Oh, mother ! and he has
been at death's door ! " interrupted Lilian.

111 ? Everard ? I knew there must be
something very serious," ejaculated Cyril.
'but he is better?"

He is convalescent, dear. He is a noble,
unselfish fellow, as I always knew when he
was but a tiny boy ! He would not let his
friends be written to until he was completely
out of danger. There was a child dangerously
ill of scarlet fever in some dreadful court in
Seven Dials. He was too ill to be moved, and
had a bad, drunken mother, and Henry watched
him for several nights, relieving guard with
a day nurse. By the time the child was out
of danger Henry was raving "

Then, why," interrupted Cyril, with
agitation, " were we not told ? "

He had foreseen his delirium, and forbidden
any communication till he died or
recovered. He knew full well that nothing
would have kept Marion from him, had she
known "

"" He was right ! " broke in Cyril, in a low,
fervid tone. " Thank Heaven that he thought
of that ! "-

Henry always thinks of everything that
may affect the welfare of his friends," added
Lilian, whose face v/ore a look of quiet
enthusiasm, and whose dark grey eyes were
shining with repressed tears.

And now ? " added Cyril, with energy.
They will not let Marion go to him now,
I hope. The convalescent stage is the most
infectious."

They will not meet until Henry is perfectly
free from infection. You may trust
Henry for that, Cyril."

He has been very ill," said Lilian ; " they
feared he would be both blind and deaf. It

will be months before he can recover, though
the infectious stage is already nearly past."

Poor old Everard ! that will be a terrible
trial for him, with his ambition. Time is so
precious to a man who is beginning his
career."

I suspect he has been working too hard,"
said Mrs. Maitland, " and the enforced rest
to his brain may benefit him more than they
think. Admiral Everard is ordered to the
Mediterranean with the squadron in a few
weeks' time, and, a winter abroad being
necessary for Henry, he is to go in the
Cressy to Malta, from whence he will afterwards
go to other places — Egypt and the
Holy Land among them — and Marion is to
be his companion."

"Marion? What ! Marion spend the winter
abroad ? Impossible ! She shall not go."

You are not married yet, Cyril," said
Lilian, laughing.

My dear boy, why should Marion not
go ? " asked his mother, in surprise. '' She
is delighted at the prospect. It is perhaps

the only chance she will have of going
abroad for any length of time. Once married,
a girl cannot see much of the world, as the
admiral says, and a country curate's wife is
especially bound to home."

And do you suppose, mother, that I shall
always be a country curate ? " asked Cyril,
with fire. " No, indeed. My wife will have
as many opportunities of seeing the world
as any one, I trust. But she cannot, she
must not leave me all this winter. I simply
cannot spare her."

And Henry — can he spare her ? " asked
Lilian.

"She is not engaged to Henry. Let
Henry get a wife of his own."

'' My dear Cyril, how absurdly you talk ! "
said Mrs. Maitland. " You forget that Henry
is an invalid, and will need his sister's care.
And you forget, too, that Marion is looking
forward with the greatest delight to this unexpected
trip."

The only lady on board — on board a
man-of-war ! "

And awful fun, too," interposed the boy
on the rug. '^ I only wish I was ill, and the
admiral would take me."

Well, Lennie, you would be a more
appropriate passenger, certainly. The admiral
had better take us all, I think. Snip,
the terrier, and Snap, the pug, with Mark
Antony to catch the mice and keep us in
order."

But Marion is not going in the Cressy''
interposed Lilian. " There was some idea of
her going at first. It seems, however, that
ladies are not supposed to sail with their
relations."

I was beginning to wonder whether the
admiral purposed carrying a regular Noah's
ark about with him," grumbled Cyril. " And
pray, how does Marion get to Malta, unless
in the Cressy ? By balloon ? or does she
charter a vessel of her own ? "

^'She goes with the Wilmot, overland by
Marseilles. Captain Wilmot is joining his
regiment at Malta. They stop at Paris and
other places, taking it leisurely, and that will

be delightful to Marion, who has travelled
so little."

It seems, then, after all, that Henry will
have to do without Marion till he reaches
Malta," said Cyril.

But he will have his father, and, of
course, a proper attendant on board. At
Malta he will be thrown on his own resources,
and will need a companion. They will take
care of each other," Mrs. Maitland replied
cheerfully. " They think of coming home
by way of Sicily."

I shall go to Woodlands tomorrow, and
remonstrate with the admiral, if he is there.
I shall take the pony-chaise, unless you want
it, Lilian."

Nonsense, Cyll. You may go to the
Woodlands and take the pony, but you will
not remonstrate with the admiral, or make
yourself in any way obnoxious," said Lilian.
When you come to reflect, you will see
what a charming arrangement it is for everybody.
The admiral is the more delighted, ashe
thinks this voyage will make Henry so

VOL. I. F

desperately in love with the navy that he
will become a naval surgeon."

Hang the admiral ! " observed Cyril, in
his softest, most plaintive voice, while a droll
little smile curved his lips. "Why doesn't
somebody pity me ? Isn't it hard lines, Mark
Antony ? "

Mark Antony responded by a tiny mew.
He was sitting on the writing-table between
his twin favourites, the picture of feline bliss ;
his tail curled round his dainty white paws,
his snowy breast tinted by the ruddy firelight,
his eyes lazily closing and unclosing,
while he made rhythmic accompaniment to
their voices in deep, long-drawn purrs, and
expressed a benevolent and condescending
interest in the conversation by occasional
winks and movements in the direction of
brother or sister, as each spoke. He had
inspected and thoroughly sniffed Cyril's
sermon with an air of approving criticism. '

Mark Antony was most condescending to
Marion this afternoon," said Lilian ; " he not
only purred affably when she stroked him,

but even allowed her to kiss him on the
breast."

Whereupon Cyril bestowed a salute on the
same spot, commending the cat's sagacity in
thus recognizing Marion as one of the family.
Mark Antony drew himself up with gratified
pride, and returned his friend's caress by
lifting his velvet paw, placing his head on
one side with an arch, roguish expression
in his sparkling eyes and bristled white
whiskers, and chucking Cyril under the chin
with the daintiest grace, to the envy and
delight of the children, who worshipped this
household divinity at a distance ; the jealous
disgust of the dogs, who were sleeping with
one eye open, after the manner of their tribe,
and growled faintly ; and the admiration of
the whole family, who knew that this delicate
caress was never accorded save to the twins.

No one seems to have thought of me in
this matter," observed Cyril, stroking the
delighted animal. " I shall certainly stand
up for my rights. This notion of sacrificing
Marion, and sending her half the world over

in charge of an invalid brother, is too detestable.
Her sisters should interfere ; they
stand in the place of a mother to her."

Married sisters have little influence on
home affairs, fortunately for Marion's freedom
in the choice of a husband," Mrs. Maitland
said, laughing.

"Well, it grows late," said Cyril, rising.
By the way, I did your errands at Lee's.
The eggs and the pupil are to arrive tomorrow
morning."

I am so glad you remembered," replied
Lilian ; " I have the greatest desire to gain
some influence over Alma Lee. Do you
know, Cyril, she is a girl of no common
character. No one in the least suspects
what that girl is capable of."

What, Lill, have you unearthed another
genius ? " asked Cyril, carelessly.

Oh no ; no genius. But the next time
you see her, observe the way in which her
eye flashes, and the mobility of her features.
Poor Alma ! she is so liable to fall into temptation,
with her beauty and ignorance, and

passionate, undisciplined nature. There are
fine elements in her, deep feeling, strong
imagination, and capability of self-sacrifice.
How she tended that poor little step-sister of
hers ! Lucy was fearfully afflicted. Her own
mother shrank from her at times ; but Alma,
never. Yet she is very wayward, and so
spoilt. Her nature is powerful for evil and
good. Nothing but strong principle can keep
such a nature straight."

Cyril listened, looking thoughtfully towards
the fire, with his hand shading his eyes from
its light.

My sister is a profound student of human
nature, mother," he observed lightly. " She
is right in saying that Miss Alma has a will
of her own. Let us hope you will succeed in
putting a curb on this unbridled nature,
Lilian: You are quite right in your analysis
of it. But I am not sure that a Bible-class is
the panacea you imagine. To move Alma
Lee, I think you must appeal to her affections."


She is frightfully vain, poor girl ! " interposed

Mrs. Maitland. " If you could induce
her to dress more quietly, Lilian ! "

I am not so much afraid of her vanity,
mother. As Cyril says, her affections must
be got at, and I want to make my Bible-class
a means to that end."

Just listen to the parish priest ! " laughed
Cyril ; " she talks like a book. She is worth
ten curates to my father. The time I have
wasted, as usual ; it is past seven ! Goodnight,
Lennie. Have you earned the half-crown
yet ? No ? Lazy fellow. You will
never be able to own a menagerie as you
wish, unless you work harder. You may still
get the half-crown if you bring me a fable of
La Fontaine's, in decent Latin, remember.
Winnie has fully earned hers, and here it is,
brand-new. Good night, mother. Father
will be home at eight, he bid me tell you.
Good night, Lilian." And, having been duly
taken leave of by the dogs, Cyril left the
drawing-room, accompanied to the door by
Lilian and Mark Antony, the latter flourishing
his tail aloft with due ceremony, and

remaining seated on the step at Lilian's feet,
watching till the young man's form was
swallowed up in the wintry gloom.

'* Cyril appears anxious to be married,"
Mrs. Maitland observed, on Lilian's return to
the drawing-room. "It is a very strong
attachment, and well placed, fortunately for the
dear boy. His anxiety about Marion actually
made him forget Henry's peril, and the
heroism which brought it upon him. Love
is stronger than friendship."

Cyril is very impulsive," replied Lilian,
*' and, like all impulsive people, is in a
desperate hurry about everything. An early
marriage is the thing to give balance to such
a temperament."

Dear child," remonstrated her mother,
I do not think he needs balance. I may bea
foolish old woman," she added, smiling,
but I can see no fault in Cyril. Neither
can your father. I wish he had wider scope
for his fine talents. To cramp a young fellow
of his splendid powers and attainments in
that narrow country parish seems such a

deplorable waste of good material. I see, too,
that the bondage chafes him."

Lilian made no reply, but looked thoughtfully
at the fire, soothing some inward perturbation
by stroking and destroying Mark
Antony, who sat purring with an expression
of imbecile rapture on her knee.

Cyril meanwhile made his way through
the foggy darkness of the country roads to
his rooms in the tiny village where lay his
cure, vexed and cogitating upon every possible
means of keeping Marion in England.

His dinner was ready — a simple chop, but
cooked and served in the daintiest perfection,
and accompanied by a bottle of claret of a
delicate vintage. Some late flowers and a
dish of autumn fruit garnished his table, all
the appointments of which were elegant and
refined. Nothing in the simple little lattice-widowed
room could offend the most
fastidious taste, though it was rather bare,
and its easiest chair would have been full of
penance to some people's limbs. Two proof
line-engravings, after Raphael, were its sole

adornments, unless we include a great many
books, most of which were well bound, and
a harmonium. His solitary meal ended,
Cyril's landlady brought him some coffee,
made as English coffee rarely is, and served
in a lovely cup of Sevres, the gift of Marion
Everard, and acquainted him with the fact
that an old woman had sent three times that
day, requesting him to come and read to her,
as she was taken worse.

"I'll go directly," replied Cyril. "Poor old
soul ! I'm so sorry I was out when she sent ; "
and he started from his seat to get his hat.
Then it struck him that he had better drink
the coffee while it was hot, and he sat down
again, and fell into a reverie, experiencing
the delicious physical languor which comes
after much air and exercise and the satisfaction
of a temperate appetite, and which is so
favourable to a certain kind of mental occupation.
He looked wistfully at a volume of
St. Augustine, which lay ready to his hand,
and then at his watch. "It is too late for
Martha Hale to-night," he reflected; "and,

after all, what good can I do lier ? Her life
has been a combination of a martyr's and a
saint's ; she has the Bible at her fingers' ends,
and caught me tripping in a quotation twice
the other day. Her spiritual knowledge is
such as I can only dimly guess at. I can tell
her nothing that she does not know five times
as well as I. Her daughter reads to her by
the hour. She has no sins to confess, no
doubts to calm. And it would be a sin to
disturb her at this time of night." And he
finished the coffee, and was soon lost in St.
Augustine's " City of God," which he closed
at about the time when Martha Hale's radiant
soul took flight from its worn and suffering
tenement. Then he slept as youth sleeps,
Marion's sweet face flitting through his
dreams, and her voice making melody to an
accompaniment of sweetly clashing peals of
the bell-music from Long's waggon team.

CHAPTER lY.

Rather more than a year after Alma Lee's
evening ride in the waggon, a railway
carriage containing two travellers was speeding
southwards through the wintry air, with
din and rattle and smoke, in the wake of the
red-eyed engine, which panted, groaned, and
throbbed as with the agony of some vexed
demon.

The travellers were men in the heyday
of youth, and their comfortable rugs, and
the array of books and papers with which
they were surrounded in the well-padded
carriage, marked them as among those
fortunate sons of earth who are absolved
from the labour of carefully considering
sixpences and shillings before converting
them into things of convenience or pleasure.

An odour as of a recently evanished cigar of
fine flavour further emphasized their emancipation
from the slavery of petty economies,
though a practised observer would never fora
moment have classed them in the ranks of
those gilded youth v^ho are exempted from
the curse of labour and at liberty to squander
the rich prime of their strength on pleasures
and follies as they will. No ; they were
evidently two young men of the cultured
middle class, bred in comfort, if not luxury,
but with their own standing yet to make — a
truly happy position for youth of average
thews and sinews.

They sat in opposite corners, with their
legs stretched out beneath their warm rugs,
one looking backwards at the swiftly receding
perspective of trees and fields, villages and
farmsteads, flashing and fading on the sight ;
the other facing forwards to the yet unseen,
but seeing it not, since he was fast asleep.
Fast asleep, unconscious and peaceful as any
babe on its mother's breast, he was speeding
on without fear to a fate which in his wildest

dreams he could never have pictured, and
which, could it have been shadowed forth
ever so dimly to him, he would have dismissed
with laughing scorn as utterly improbable —
nay, impossible. Yet the train rushed on
with pant and puff and clatter, bearing him
nearer and nearer to the hidden terror with
every quiet breath he drew in his secure
slumbers, while pleasant fancies of the present
and warm hopes of the future wove themselves
into fantastic images in his light
dreams. His was a well-built, manly form,
and his sleeping face, with all its placid calm,
was full of latent energy and bright intellect ;
a strong, serene face, with firm lips and chin,
the face of a man who could do and endure
much ; a face expressive of healthy vigour of
both mind and body, though it bore traces of
fatigue, which the soft touches of sleep were
every moment erasing.

His wakeful companion was a clergyman, a
man whose mobile and finely cut features,
and eyes full of intense blue light, were
expressive of something akin to genius ; a man

whose delicately organized nature could be
touched, the observer would imagine, only to
the finest issues.

A world of thought and care sat on the
young priest's brow, and the look which
he bent on the fast-receding fields was so
profoundly sad, that it would seem as if
happiness could never again smile on him.
None of the layman's calm strength and
wholesome serenity was his ; such power as
his face expressed would come in lightning
flashes of brief but keen intensity. All nerve,
fire, imagination, and feeling, was this young
spirit apparently ; capable of descending to the
lowest depths of suffering or rising to the
very airiest summits of enthusiasm. It was
an eminently beautiful and spiritual young
face, and one which never failed to awaken
interest, if not love. He looked very worn
and fatigued ; but no merciful wing of
sleep came to fan the trouble from his brow,
while his companion slept so serenely and
dreamed so pleasantly.

In one hand he held a little book with

red edges ; but, instead of consulting its pages,
his eyes were bent fixedly on the flying
wintry landscape, which, nevertheless, they
saw not, their gaze of intense abstraction
being turned inwards upon some unspeakable
sorrow. His face was in the shadow, while
some rays of wintry sunlight fell upon the
sleeper's face, touched the brown moustache
with tints of gold, and finally dazzled the
closed eyes to wakefulness. They were very
pleasant eyes when opened — honest, hazel
eyes, looking directly and kindly upon the
world, and suggesting the sunshine of wholesome
mirth in their depths ; shrewd eyes,
for they had seen many varieties of human
beings in the course of six and twenty years,
and were not easily deceived.

Upon my word," observed the owner of
the eyes, " I think I must have forgotten
myself for a moment, Cyril."

At the first sound of his voice all the
sadness vanished from the young priest's
face ; the mournfully brooding eyes left the
landscape, and flashed a gay brilliance upon

the face in the sunshine ; the finely moulded
lips lost their drooping curve in a smile ; the
dejected attitude became one of alert repose ;
the whole man was changed.

You may have forgotten yourself, old
fellow, but it was impossible for any one else
to forget you with that dulcet harmony of
yours resounding through the brain," he
replied.

Come, now, that's a libel ; I never snore,"
returned the other, with a hearty yawn that
brought the tears into his eyes ; " and if I did,
you might forgive me, since you were not
preaching."

u There are some sermons of mine just over
your head, Everard ; who knows but some
lulling influence may have emanated from
them ? "

'' ' He jests at scars that never felt a
wound.' You scoundrel, you know very well
that the sleep of the just is murdered the
moment you begin thumping the pulpit-cushion,"
said Everard, with a banter which
veiled an honest enthusiasm for his friend's
gifts.

I suppose I ought to say something neat
with regard to the elegance with which
you take off people's legs and tie up their
arteries. But, you see, my ignorance is so
total "

Exactly. Genius in our profession is
known only to the initiated, while in yours
it is impossible to hide its light under a
bushel. Lucky fellows, you parsons. Not
the minutest spark of worth in you escapes
observation."

You have hit on the weak point in our
profession, Henry," said Cyril, dropping his
air of banter. " Seriously, it is a very awful
thing to be placed as we are in the full light
of public observation, all our weaknesses,
failings, and errors heightened by its glare,
and doing — oh, the smallest of them ! — such
worlds and worlds of harm."

Stuff, Maitland ! That is where you
parsons err. You think too much of your
example and influence. You don't suppose,
man, that we think you superior to human
weaknesses ? Not a bit of it ; we should

VOL. I. G

loathe you, if we did. For goodness sake,
Cyril, don't take up with these superfine
priestly notions. By the way, why didn't
you go to sleep ? You look as if you wanted
it badly enough. Have you got some infernal
machine secreted under your waistcoat, to
wake you with a timely dig in case you
succumb to nature's weakness, according to
the rule of St. What's-his-name ? "

My dear fellow," returned the other, with
a pained look, " you mean no harm, but you

handle certain subjects with a levity "

Come now, Cyril, we are not treading on
holy ground. Your conscience and feelings
are in a state of hyper-sesthesia ; you have
been working too hard. I didn't mean that
parsons were not expected to practise what
they preach a little more precisely than other
men, or that any grave lapse on their part is
not worse in them than in others. But I
object to this morbid self-consciousness and
conscience-searching. Surely a clergyman
who is honest in his faith ought to be able to
lead a Christian's life with sufficient ease to

prevent him from torturing himself about the
effect of his peccadilloes, which are all taken
for granted, on his flock."

There are no peccadilloes for us," returned
Cyril, with a deep sigh. " But now, Henry,
let me speak out my anxiety about you as a
friend merely, not as a priest. Many things
you have said lately have grieved me
deeply "

Oh, I know ! Because I don't believe in
the devil, I am in a parlous state. You
priests have a great tenderness for that absurd
old devil of yours. Beg his pardon ; I will
speak more respectfully of him in future.
Drive on."

Your profession," pursued Maitland, with
a look of shocked forbearance, " is a noble
one ; nay, in some respects it is more noble
than the priesthood itself, though lacking the
special stamp of sanctity which that bears. It
is more noble because it involves so much more
self-sacrifice. But it is one beset with special
and awful dangers. Your minds are so constantly
set upon the material, that it is no

wonder if you are tempted to lose sight of the
spiritual."

That I admit," returned Everard.
You risk your souls that you may heal
our bodies, and the Italian proverb, ' Where
there are three doctors there are two atheists,'
is daily verified."

Granted. But I am not one of the
atheists, happily for me."

Not yet ; but I tremble for you, Henry.
That light tone grows upon you. And you
reason every day more and more from the
point of view of the man of science. You
learn more and more to distrust everything
that cannot be proved by the evidence of the

senses "

Of reason."

^' It amounts to the same thing. Will you
promise to pray against this, Henry ? " asked
Cyril, with intense supplication.

"My friend," returned the other, with a
slight shake of his body, like that a dog gives
in issuing from the water, " you accused me
just now of treating sacred things with levity.

Now your words jar upon my sense of reverence,
which is strangely different in a priest
and a layman. You are accustomed, you see.
to handle religious topics freely. I am not.
And as I have no words to express them in,
I would rather leave them alone."

Cyril heaved a profound sigh, and was
silent for some seconds, while Everard kindled
a second cigar.

'you think I have taken a liberty, Harry?"
he asked, after a while.

Not in the least. Feeling as you do, you
would have been wrong to be silent. You
have but done your duty, old friend. Cheer
up. Oh, do keep a fellow company in a
cigar ! It is holiday-time."

Cyril's sensitive face brightened. It was
evident that he was extremely anxious about
the effect his words would have on his friend's
estimation of him. But he resolutely declined
the cigar — a self-denial which fretted his
friend as being quite a new feature in his
character.

"You are very much changed, Maitland,

during the past year' he said, looking keenly
at him.

I am indeed," he replied, with a heavy
sigh ; and he turned the subject by pointing
out the towers of a grey cathedral in the
distance. " It is always a pleasant friend to
meet on one's way home," he said ; and the
two joined in admiring the massive pile, till
their passage through a chalk cutting hid it
from their sight for a time, and then the
train slackened, the shouts of porters were
heard, the cathedral appeared once more, and
they glided under the roofs of the smoky
station, amid a confused din of bell-ringing,
door-banging, hurrying steps and wheels, and
all the turmoil attending a brief pause on a
main line.

'' Belminster always had a great fascination
for me," observed the doctor, looking across
the sea of smoke-wreathed roofs to the vast
towers of the cathedral. " Surely that serenely
majestic person in gaiters is the bishop himself.
The expression ' Church dignitary ' is
so fit. Who ever heard of a medical dignitary,

or a legal dignitary ? Good gracious me,
Maitland, what an awful thing it must be to
be a bishop's son ! Fancy asking that urbane
and dignified cleric to pass the wine ! I
should faint if called upon to feel a spiritual
lordship's pulse.

Cyril smiled as the unconscious bishop
made a stately and solitary progress past their
carriage, recognizing the young clergyman
as he passed.

"He is very kind and fatherly," he observed,
as the train moved on. " I wish I were still
in his diocese. Yes, I have a great regard
for Belminster. I was ordained there."

May you walk in the gaiters of that good
old gentleman, Cyril, some score of years
hence, and make the splendid old arches of
the minster ring with jour eloquence ! I shall
settle near you — as parish doctor, mind —
though I invent heaven knows how many
diseases, as I hope to do, and Europe rings
with my discoveries. No fashionable physician
business for me."

*'A bishop," observed the young priest.

thoughtfully, "has an immense scope for
action."

Here is a man," said Everard, appealing
to the windows and sides of the carriage,
who is too honest to say, ' Nolo episcopal.'
Let us make much of this man ! Let us —
hem ! — marry him to our sister."

'' This day two months," added Maitland,
the wedding will take place."

By the way, the young minx suggested
that I should read Tennyson's ' St. Simeon
Stylites ' at the next Penny Readings. The
suggestion is, I suppose, intended for a profound
joke. Rather a weak poem. Lunacy
requires the master-mind of a Shakespeare to
handle it without repulsiveness."

"I am not sure that it was lunacy," said
Cyril.

Not lunacy to stand on a pillar for thirty
years ? My good fellow, when I consider the
doings of the Stylites and the recluses of the
Thebaid, I sometimes wonder if there was
any sanity in the world in those days."

There was, at least, method in their madness,

Everard. Consider the power their
austerities gained them over the minds of
ordinary men."

Of course ; many an authentic maniac has
been honoured with almost divine honours incertain
stages of society. The lust of power
is a curious thing. For my part, I would
rather be a nonentity than stand on a pillar
to gain influence."

But consider what they wanted influence
for. To bring souls to God."

So they persuaded themselves, no doubt.
Of all things I loathe asceticism. Not so
much for the spiritual ambition and pride
that attend it, as because it is in reality
only the other side of profligacy, or, in
other words, an ascetic is a rake turned
monk."

Can a rake do better than turn monk ? "

In my judgment, he can. He can repent,
turn away from his wickedness, and lead a
rational human life."

Nay. He has made himself unworthy of
those common human enjoyments in which

innocent men may indulge. Nothing but a
life of penance can atone "

Nothing can atone," interrupted Everard.
I am a Protestant, Cyril — a rabid Protestant,
as you observed the other day. None
of your popish penances for me. What's the
matter ? "

^' Nothing," replied Cyril, whose features
quivered with pain, as he pressed his hand
to his side. " At least, only a ' stitch ' I am
subject to. Myself, I long for more austerity
in the Christian life of to-day. A few
eremites of the Thebaid type on Salisbury
Plain "

I tell you what, Cyril : you must learn to
moderate your transports in that parish of
yours, or you will soon be in a hospital or a
lunatic asylum. Subject to a stitch at four
and twenty ! It won't do. The devil fly away
with your eremites ! There are legends of
some of those same Thebaid lunatics, who,
after passing years and years in every species
of austerity, suddenly burst their unnatural
trammels in one unguarded moment, fled to

the city, and plunged into a very vortex of
iniquity. Extremes meet, and Nature is a
stern avenger."

The spasm again flitted across Cyril's face,
unnoticed by his friend, for Cyril turned to
the window as he pressed his side. Beneath
his clothes he wore a little golden cross,
studded with tiny spikes, which, on pressure,
pierced the flesh.

The exception rather proves the rule,"
he said, smiling, as he turned his face again
towards his friend. " The ascetics have in
all ages of the world been the salt of the
earth. A mere protest against sensuality is
something. And people need the discipline
of pain."

If I were to invent a purgatory, Cyril, it
would be one of happiness. Joy is the true
educator and refiner, not pain. Nothing
exists, or can exist, without joy, which is
both the originator and sustainer of life in
the organic world, and therefore, by analogy,
in the spiritual. You and I are here to-day
as the result of long ages of physical and

moral well-being enjoyed through an infinite
chain of ancestors. Without continued physical,
mental, and moral enjoyment throughout
our own individual lives, you and I
would never have attained to our present
physical, mental, and moral stature — such as
it is. Good heavens, Cyril ! think of the
stunted, stifled natures we have been seeing
daily in those dens of East-end vice and
misery, and contrast them with the men who
were our companions at Cambridge ! "

I grant a certain necessary basis of
physical well-being," rejoined Cyril, wearily ;
but I trust the day will dawn when you
too will rejoice in the discipline of sorrow.
It may even now be knocking at your doors ;
for you are too happy, Harry, for a sinful
man "

I am most perfectly happy, and trust to
remain so, my gruesome prophet," said
Everard, with a cheery laugh. " I have
youth, health, a clear conscience, a profession
I love, and good prospects in it, and —
and " Here a curious smile, and something

distantly resembling a blush, irradiated
the doctor's face. " In short, I should be an
ungrateful miscreant if I were not perfectly
happy. Though, to be sure," he added, " I
am not going to be married to one of the
dearest girls on earth this day two months.
Why, what is this? Oldport already, as I
am a living man ! " He was on his feet in a
moment, eagerly scanning the faces on the
platform, while Cyril collected the various
impedimenta. " She is not there," he muttered,
in a tone of disappointment, as he
appropriated his own share of the plunder.

Oh no ! " returned Cyril, in a composed
manner ; " she had no intention of coming:.
Lilian would come alone ; the phaeton only
holds three, and Marion, of course, would not
drive in alone."

Everard smiled at the different significance
of the word " she " in his own and his friend's
vocabulary : to the latter it meant Marion ;
to himself, Lilian.

Perhaps she is here, after all," he continued,
" waiting outside with the pony."

'' Go and see," said Cyril ; " time and
patience, meanwhile, may result in the production
of a porter, which event I will abide."

Everard eagerly strode along the little
platform, thronged with labourers and market-women
bearing baskets of the singularly
aggressive nature affected by market-women —
baskets constructed apparently for the express
purpose of damaging passengers' ribs, and
finding out their tenderest spots. He threaded
his way eagerly through these perils, occasionally
removing a stolid and motionless
human obstacle by the simple process of
placing his hands on its shoulders and
wheeling it aside, till he issued on the top
of the hill outside the station. The river
flowed peacefully by its wharves at the foot
of the hill ; the little town rose on its banks,
and clustered lovingly round the base of the
tall white tower, whose weathercock burned
golden in the clear wintry sky ; and the grey
downs laid their arms protecting round this,
their child.

But Everard did not look at this scene ; he

scanned only the lines of flys and omnibuses,
each manned by a gesticulating, whip-waving
driver, in search of the well-known pony from
Malbourne, with the face he loved behind
it. But there was no irony and no Lilian,
and he returned disconsolate to Cyril, who,
in the mean time, had succeeded in gaining
the attention of one of the two distracted
porters.

Perhaps," observed Cyril, tranquilly, " I
forgot to write. Who knows ? Well, we
must have a fly."

By the sword of my grandfather," cried
Ev^erard, "I will not go in one of those
confounded flys. Let us walk. The weather
is made for it. A country walk will drive
ascetic megrims out of your brain."
And the portmanteaus ? "
'' Left till called for. We can carry our
own bags. Now, look here," he added, as
Cyril demurred, " I am not going to mortify
my flesh by riding in a cushioned fly behind
two horses, with my luggage carried for me.
I shall walk across country, bag on shoulder ;

and if that is too comfortable for your
reverence, you can get some dried peas at the
first grocer s we come to."

Cyril laughed and consented. Everard
gave the man silver to buy peas to put in his
boots, to his great mystification, and the two
young men set off down the hill, deafened by
the importunities of flymen, and crossed the
bridge over the dark, sluggish river, and
admired the artistic pyramids of casks on the
brewers' wharves, and rejoiced at hearing the
familiar Hampshire drawl in the streets ; for
it was market-day, and many a rustic lounged,
stolid, with open mouth, before the gay shop-windows
decked for Christmas.

Presently a more musical sound made their
ears tingle with pleasant home-thoughts — the
sweet, melodious confusion of waggon-bells,
clashing rhythmically along the street, and
they soon recognized Long's fine team of
horses, each proudly shaking the music from
his crest, and responding to the guttural
commands of William Grove, who strode
along with an expressionless face and a sprig

of mistletoe in his cap, cracking his whip, and
accompanied by his satellite Jem, who bore
holly in his hat. A faint gleam, distantly
resembling a smile, spread over William's
face at the greeting of the two young men,
and he even went so far as to issue the
strange monosyllable which brought his team
to a standstill at their request, while the
more youthful and impassioned Jem expanded
into a distinct grin, and replied that his
health was " middling."

Well, and how are all the Malbourne
folk ? and are any of our people in Oldport
to-day. Grove ? "

I ain't seed none as I knows on," he
replied, after profound consideration.

Any of the Malbourne folk * gone up the
steps ' to-day ? " asked Everard, looking in
the direction of the town hall, which was
closed, with its clock glittering in the sunshine.


Ah ! 'ain't often we good up steps," returned
William, who knew well that the
steps referred to were those conducting the

YOL. I. H

malefactor before the magistrates at the town
hall, and which were numerous and unpleasant
to climb with a burdened conscience.
'•' We never knows, though' he added, in an
unusual burst of moralizing, " who med bethe
next."

I hope it won't be you, William," returned
Everard ; " if it is, it won't be for robbing
those fine horses of their corn. Why, they
look as fit as filberts," he added, patting the
leader.

It won't be you neither, doctor," growled
William, affectionately ; " for all they ses as
how you done for Jem Martin, a-cutting of
him open and a-zewing of him up so many
times, and pretty nigh listened Mam Lee."

Do they say that ? " laughed Everard.
"And this is fame, as Mr. Crumbles observed,
Cyril. Well, look here, William! you take
these bags of ours, if you think the waggon
can stand it, and fetch our portmanteaus from
the station. Jem can run up the hill for
them."

Our luggage, William," explained Cyril,

"if it won't put you out of your way. Weare
going home on foot, and didn't know how
on earth to get our things out till we met
you."

After deep cogitation, and some assistance
from the quicker intelligence of Jem, the
nature of the service he was required to
render at last dawned upon William Grove's
intellect, which was apparently situated at a
long distance from the material world, and
he consented with gruff heartiness, and,
waking all the five little peals of music with
one motion of his whip, started off in the
direction of the station.

A happy New Year to you ! " the two
friends cried together at parting.

"And beware of going up the steps,"
added Everard. " Upon my word, Cyril, I
should like to explore the recesses of that
fellow's moral consciousness. He is apparently
up to the level of the most advanced
thinkers of the day. He evidently looks
upon crime as a misfortune dependent upon
quite extrinsic circumstances."

They all do," returned Cyril. " It is the
part of Christianity to convince the world of
sin."

Who shall say how far a man's will
consents to his acts ? " added Everard,
musingly. " I hope some day to be able to
give myself to the study of mental disease,
and more accurately trace the connection
between that and crime."

Let us forget both this one day," said
Cyril, whose spirits had undergone a wonderful
change in the last half-hour, and were
now gay even to boyishness.

Everard fell readily into his humour, and,
chatting and laughing, the friends soon
passed the streets of the little town and its
miniature suburbs, and gained the pretty
village of Chalkburne, the Norman tower of
which showed in the sunlight fresh and
unworn by its eight centuries of storm, and
greeted the travellers with the music of its
chiming hour as they walked through the
linden-girdled churchyard, rejoicing in their
youth and the live wintry air.

Cyril had the gift of conversation, which
Everard somewhat lacked, and the talk was
brilliant and sparkled with his ready wit
and quick repartee, in which the doctor
was continually worsted, greatly to his own
good-humoured content. His love for Cyril
and his admiration for his gifts were boundless.
The two friends had passed all their
school-time together, Everard riding daily to
Malbourne to study with Cyril's tutor, Mr.
Maitland's curate ; and in those young days
the hero-worship began, the elder boy, whose
mental powers were slower, if more solid,
admiring, protecting, and helping the bright-eyed,
clever child who shared his studies and
so often distanced him. They met again at
Cambridge, where the senior was only one
year ahead of his two-years junior, and there
Everard found fresh cause to admire his
brilliant and successful friend, who gathered
friends and admirers innumerable about him,
and won laurels, both literary and social.

And now family ties promised to unite
them more closely, and Everard was glad —

far more glad than Maitland, whose affection
for his friend, though warm, had not the
slightest element of hero-worship, but was,
on the contrary, flavoured with a good spice
of condescension. With all his imagination
and quick sympathy, Cyril did not see that
Henry possessed those solid and patient
mental gifts which readily master the facts
of physical science, and, above all, had the
peculiar faculty which may be called scientific
imagination, — that he was, in short, one of
those chosen few who make new epochs in
the history of scientific research. Cyril
looked upon his enthusiasm for his profession
as praiseworthy, but inexplicable. It seemed
to him that Henry crawled upon the earth,
while he soared in the vast of heaven's blue.
Such was the bond which united the two
hard-working young men who walked along
the chalky road that bracing afternoon at the
end of December, to pass a week's well-earned
holiday under the friendly roof of Malbourne
Rectory.

CHAPTER Y.

The afternoon sun was shining peacefully
upon the thatched roofs of Malbourne, on the
dark grey spire of its tree-girdled church,
and on the south-west front of Malbourne
Rectory. At one of the sun-lighted windows
sat Lilian Maitland, busily writing, her face
directed to the prospect without, which she
occasionally looked upon in her thoughtful
pauses.

The lawn sloped quickly from the windows
to a road which was concealed by trees,
and beyond which rose the park-like grounds
of Northover House in such a manner as
to appear but a continuation of the Rectory
grounds. Somewhere down in the hollow
by the road there danced and murmured
the bright little stream which gave its name

to Melbourne, and which Lilian knew was
sparkling gaily now in the sunshine, as it
washed the drooping hart's-tongue waving
from its mossy bank. Beyond the cluster
of village roofs on the right spread a
range of flat, windy fields to the unseen
sea. Behind the Eectory, and on the left
of Lilian's window, rose the bleak chalk
downs, strong barriers against the wild salt
winds which swept over those regions, summer
and winter, from the sea.

Mark Antony, the cat, sat demurely on
the table by the blotting-book, thoughtfully
scanning the sunny landscape, and pretending
not to see the pert little robin on the
lawn, while he occasionally appealed to
Lilian's sympathies by rubbing his velvet
head against her cheek, or giving her a
dainty little bite, which he had copied from
his human friends, under the impression
that it was a kiss. In a low chair, between
the table and the fire, sat a very pretty,
slender girl, toying with a piece of fancy
work, but really intent upon trying to win

a glance or responsive purr from Mark
Antony, who regarded all her efforts with
haughty indifference, and continued to evolve
his philosophy of the visible universe unmoved.


He is so tantalizing ! " she cried, throwing
away her work with a pretty pettish
gesture. " If he would only once show some
deference to me, I should not care. Puss,
puss, I say ! Come to me at once, sir ! "

He thoroughly understands the secret of
his own supremacy, Marion," replied Lilian,
coming to the end of her writing, and softly
stroking the animal's snow-white breast.
He knows as well as you do that you would
think nothing of his caresses if he lavished
them unasked."

Selfish, hateful animal ! "

He is not selfish," replied Lilian ; " he is
a profound student of human nature. He
has discovered that the deepest joy a human
being can taste is to love disinterestedly.
He therefore offers mankind this enjoyment
by permitting them to adore him at a

distance. Dogs afford a far lower enjoyment
that of being loved."

^' Dogs are right," said Marion, her brown
eyes softening in a wistful gaze ; " the
happiest thing is to be loved. I should die
if people didn't love me. I almost hated
Cyril when I thought, in that dreadful time
last spring, that he didn't care for me."

"It is delicious to be loved," rejoined
Lilian, '* but to love is best. How happy
Henry is in his affection for you ! You are
the dearest thing in the world to him, and
yet I think you care little comparatively for
him ; you even prefer your brother Leslie,
who is always too busy with sport and
gaieties to write to you."

Well, it is different," replied Marion.
Henry is so full of learning that he seems
older than Leslie, who is the darling of his
regiment and so full of life. And then,
Henry is not engaged. I am sure he has
never cared for any girl, and will die an old
bachelor. Of course, he cares much more forme
than I can for him. And he is so devoted
to Cyril."

*^ I think," said Lilian, pressing her cheek
against her pet's glossy fur, " that neither of
you know the real worth of Henry."

Oh, he is the best old fellow in the world,
but not clever and handsome like Cyril, and
without the dash of Leslie. By the way, I
suppose those bad boys will be here tonight."


"• No doubt they will turn up some time,
unless something serious detains them, in
which case they will telegraph. Cyll has
promised to preach tomorrow. Are you
quite sure, Marion, that he did not mention
his train ? He always likes me to meet him
at Oldport."

He said he would write later to name the
train. I suppose he forgot."

He does forget now, Marion, as he never
used to. He is killing himself in that
dreadful parish. Oh, I shall be so thankful
dien you are married ! There will be a
perfect holiday, to begin with, and then you
will keep him within reasonable bounds."

Marion laughed. " He will have to take

care of me as well as the parish," she said.
But what is this ? "

This " proved to be merely Eliza, the
parlour-maid, who entered with her usual
unmoved countenance.

It is only Stevens, Miss Lilian," she said.
And could you please step down to the
forge at once ? "

The forge ! " exclaimed Marion, with
wide eyes of astonishment.

What is the matter there, Eliza ? " asked
Lilian, tranquilly.

'' Only Hotspur, Mr. Ingram's horse, miss.
They've been trying this hour to get him
shod. Straun says he wouldn't touch him
for a hundred pounds."

But what has the parish clerk to do with
shoeing horses ? " exclaimed the bewildered
Marion.

Or the parson's daughter ? " added
Lilian, laughing. " Why, nothing is done
in the village without Stevens, Marion. He
and Grander together are the oracles of
Malbourne. No, you shall not come with

me ; you would be frightened to death. Agro
and see if mother wants anything. She will
be waking now."

Oh, I say, Lilian ! " cried a little voice, as
Lennie burst in, rosy and excited, " do come
along. Such larks ! Hotspur has kicked a
cart to atoms, and now he is letting fly in all
directions, and is killing Judkins, and there's
Stevens stamping at the back door, and the
whole village with its hair on end."

Hyperbole is Lennie's favourite figure,"
commented Lilian, going out into the hall,
and taking her hat and jacket. " Run on,
Lennie, and say I am just coming. Matter ?
Oh, my dearest Marion, nothing ! Only that
Ingram Swaynestone spoils his horses'
tempers, and then is surprised that his
servants can't manage them."

In another minute Lilian had passed with
quick, light step and erect carriage down the
drive, and along the village high-road,
bordered with its little gardens, in which
one or two belated autumn flowers still made
a brave show against the wintry rigour. She

went quickly, but without hurry, and found
time on the way to give some directions about
the church to the clerk, a lean, rugged figure,
stooping slightly beneath the fardel of some
fifty winters, and crowned with a shock of
grizzled red hair, who walked and talked
excitedly at her side.

Soon she saw the forge, from the black
heart of which streamed a ruddy glow, looking
lurid in contrast with the sunshine, and
round which was grouped a dense little
crowd of women and children, with a few
men. Straun, the smith, a burly, grimy,
bare-armed figure in a leathern apron, stood
in an attitude of defiant despair, one strong
hand grasping his great hammer, which he
had flung on the anvil, and calling silently
on Heaven to witness that he was ready
to shoe Christian horses, however rampant, but
not demons, hippogriffs, or any such uncanny
monsters. Near him, looking rather pale,
but resolute, as became one superior to the
weaker emotions, an old, bent, withered man,
with shrewd grey eyes and pursed-up mouth,

stood leaning forward on a stout oaken stick,
and shook his head as one who despaired of
finding virtue in these degenerate days in
either man or beast.

And I says, as I zed afore," he repeated,
emphasizing his words with the stick, which
he dug into the ground with all the force of
his two withered hands, " zend for Miss
Lilian — zend for she ! "

Lard love 'ee, Grranfer," observed a stout
fellow in a smock-frock, who stood inside the
forge in attendance on a couple of massive,
glossy-coated cart-horses, who were cosily
munching some hay dropped before them, and
contemplating the proceedings lazily with
their great soft winking eyes, " where 's the
use of a gal ? " — a proposition received by
Granter and the assembled village with silent
scorn.

The centre of the excited little crowd,
which occasionally burst asunder and flew
outwards with a wild mingling of women's
and children's shrieks — for the men hurried
off with a silent celerity that was all the more

effectual — was a beautiful chesnut horse,
not standing, according to the comfortable
and decent wont of horses, on four firmly
planted feet, but outraging people's belief in
the stability of natural laws by rearing himself
wildly and insecurely on his two hind
legs, and dangling from his mouth in mid-air
a miserable white-faced biped in sleeved
waistcoat and gaiters, whose cap had fallen
off, and whose damp hair streamed as wildly
as Hotspur's own waving mane and quivering
tail. Tired of this folly, with his ears
laid back, his nostrils wide and red, and his
eyes showing nothing but the whites. Hotspur
would suddenly drop his victim to his
native earth, and, plunging forwards on his
other end, as if intent on turning a summer-set,
would throw his hind hoofs up towards
the sky in a manner most alarming to those
who enjoyed a near view of the proceedings ;
and then, wearying of this, he would dance
round on all four legs at once in a manner
utterly bewildering to contemplate.

Why, Hotspur," cried Lilian, in her clear,

mellow voice, as she stepped quickly through
the crowd just as Hotspur dropped the unfortunate
groom to the ground, and prepared
to turn himself the other way up, ^' what is
this, old fellow ? " and she caught the rein
from the groom's hand, pushing the latter
gently away, and laid her slender, strong
white hand firmly upon the quivering neck
of the maddened, plunging horse. " Fie,
Hotspur, fie ! "

No one had observed Lilian's approach, and
when she appeared, as if dropped from the
skies in the groom's place, a sudden quiet
pervaded every human face and limb, the
crowd fell back, and all looked on, save the
sceptic with the cart-horses, with an air of
tranquil expectancy ; while Lilian, without a
trace of anxiety or agitation, talked in
caressing, reproving tones to the ill-conducted
steed, whose limbs had quivered into some
approach to quiet at the first touch of the
slender, spirit-like hand on his neck.

But even Lilian's magic touch could not
expel the demon of passion at once from the

VOL. I. I

maddened creature. He still reared and
plunged and danced, in a manner that led
the spectators to give him plenty of room
for his evolutions ; but he became gradually
quieter, until he stood as Providence intended
horses to stand, on all four feet at once, and
only betrayed the internal workings of his
outraged feelings by the quivering of his
limbs and body, the workings of his ears and
eyes, and the redness of his wide nostrils,
while Lilian's musical voice never ceased its
low monologue of soothing and reproach, and
her hand never left stroking and patting his
shining neck and shoulders. At Hotspur's
first backward rear, indeed, her hand left him
perforce, and she only avoided being hoisted
in mid-air like the luckless groom, by giving
him ^ long rein and stepping quickly back
out of the way of his formidable fore-feet.

This was an ugly moment, and a woman
in the crowd uttered an exclamation of dismay
and turned pale at the sight of the
girl beneath the rearing horse, though no
one else betrayed the least emotion, not even

the sceptic in the smock-frock, whose mouth
was too widely opened in astonishment to
leave room for his features to express any
other feeling ; but Hotspur, finding that
Lilian did not balk him of his dance on his
hind legs, soon desisted from that uncomfortable
performance, and yielded, as his betters
frequently did, gradually to the soothing
charm of her voice and touch, until he became,
figuratively speaking, clothed and in his
right mind. She found fault with Hotspur's
bit, and pointed out the undue tightness of
his girths to Judkins, whose cheeks had now
resumed their native ruddy hue ; and when
these defects were remedied, she led the horse
a little way along the road and back again,
and fed him with sugar and other dainties,
till Hotspur's heart waxed so glad within him
that he consented to stand like a lamb, while
Straun, not without some misgiving in his
bluff face, and a muttered reference to his
wife and his seven children, fitted his new
shoes on to his restive feet with what speed
and dexterity he could muster.

"And I zed' observed Granter, again
striking his oaken staff emphatically on the
ground, and looking round on the assembled
village as if for applause, " zed I, ' Zend for
Miss Lilian — zend for she ' ! "

The crowd, in the mean time, had been
augmented by the arrival of two other
spectators, who were unobserved in the
absorbing interest evoked by Hotspur and
his conqueror. One was a tall, finely built
man, somewhat past middle life, on a good,
well-bred bay horse, which he rode and
handled with perfect horsemanship. He
stopped, in the first instance, to avoid riding
over the village population ; and in the
second, to witness the curious little drama
enacted in the wintry sunshine. He was soon
joined by a grey-haired clergyman, of venerable
aspect and refined features, who looked
on with quiet interest.

Upon my word, Maitland," said the
equestrian, addressing the latter, " this is a
new revelation of your daughter's powers.
I was already aware that she soothed the

troubles and quieted the consciences of the
whole village, but I did not know that she
undertook the blacksmith's labours as well."

My daughter," replied Mr. Maitland,
tranquilly, "has received a very singular
gift from the Almighty. She can subdue
any animal, tame or wild, by some mysterious
virtue of touch, voice, or glance — perhaps of
all three. Not a very lofty gift, perhaps. Sir
Lionel, but one which is often very useful ina
homely way."

But surely, Maitland, you cannot approve
of Lilian's rendering such dangerous services
as these. Are you not afraid for her ? "

No ; I have every confidence in her
powers. And I do not like to make her
nervous by suggesting danger. Perhaps one
secret of her influence is her absolute fearlessness.
"Watch the expression of her eye.
No ; I like my child to render whatever
service she is capable of to her fellow-creatures.
Parents often err, I think, by interfering
unnecessarily with their children's
actions. Well, Lilian, and what was the

matter ? " he asked, as the crowd, perceiving
them, fell back respectfully, with curtsies and
cap-touching. Judkins, receiving his forfeited
charge from Lilian's hand, prepared to
mount and ride away, not without warning
from Lilian, and strict injunctions to eschew
whipping and other irritations, and to quiet
Hotspur's nerves by a good canter on the
turf.

Only a horse with a spoilt temper, father,"
she replied. " How do you do. Sir Lionel ?
Tell Mr. Swaynestone that I mean to scold
him roundly about Hotspur. He is far too
hot himself to be able to indulge in chesnut
horses. And, indeed, I am not sure that he
ought to have any horse at all."

'' All this," said Sir Lionel, who had dismounted
and taken off his hat with graceful,
old-fashioned courtesy, " I will faithfully do,
though surely one word from yourself would
have more effect than volumes I could say.
Do your spells work only on the lower
creation, Lilian ? "

"I suppose so," returned Lilian, turning

homewards in the reddening sunbeams, accompanied
by the two gentlemen and the horse,
which latter she patted to his great satisfaction.
"- My spells consist chiefly of sympathy
and affection, and these are perfect with
innocent animals and children, but only
partial with sinful men."

Ben Lee will never forgive you for inducing
me to drive without bearing-reins," said
Sir Lionel. '' I wish you could have seen
the sight, Maitland. Lee ignominiously dethroned,
your daughter and myself on the
box, Lilian handling the ribbons, and driving
me up and down before the house without
bearing-reins. Lee never drives out now
without preparing for his last moment, poor
fellow. I hope you will not help poachers,
Lilian. I hear you can surround yourself
with fifty pheasants at any moment in our
woods."

If I were to hurt anything, I think my
power would be gone ; and even if I did not
love a thing I should have no power, for I
have no influence on reptiles."

And does Cyril, who is so like you, share
your power ? "

As a child he did," interposed Mr.
Maitland. " You remember the bull that
killed Lee's father, Sir Lionel ? Imagine my
feelings on seeing the twins, then about six
years old, stroking him, and trying to reach
by jumping up to his terrific horns ! Still,
Cyril has an unusual influence over animals,
though it becomes fainter. He has more
power with human beings than his sister."

"Yet Lilian stopped that fellow who was
beating his wife to death."

And the whole village looking on and
not lifting a finger — the cowards ! " Lilian
flashed out. " He fell down in sheer fright
when I rushed at him. Come in, Sir Lionel,
and have some tea," she added, as they
reached the gates.

But Sir Lionel refused the tea, having still
some distance to ride before dark.

I am in Lady Swaynestone's service
to-night," he said, *' and she bid me ask you
to come and counsel her about some distribution

of coals or what not, when you have
a spare moment. I wish you could also
exorcise the demon of extravagance from that
boy Ingram."

She nearly scolds the poor fellow to
death as it is," said Mr. Maitland. '* We are
expecting Henry Everard to-night."

So I hear. A promising fellow, Sir
Andrew Smithson tells me. He was both
clever and kind in his treatment of Lee's
wife last spring. As a lad, I thought him
rather dull. However, we all pin our faith
on Dr. Everard now at Swaynestone."

And bidding them farewell. Sir Lionel
sprang like any youth to his saddle, and rode
away at a canter, looking like a very prince,
as his tall and gracefully erect figure disappeared
among the trees in the dusk.

The group at the forge, meantime, rightly
judged that so much heat, toil, and anxiety
required the alleviation of moisture, and
Straun, casting his hammer aside, proclaimed
his intention of adjourning for solace to
the Sun, which stood at the corner by the

cross-roads, a few paces further down the
road.

Come on, Stevens," lie said, " and toss
me who'll treat Grranfer."

The guardian of the cart-horses thought ita
pity not to follow so good an example ; so
also did Hale, the wheelwright, who lived at
the opposite corner ; and Wax, who chanced
to be the schoolmaster, and Baines, the tailor,
whose monotonous indoor occupation, though
varied with pig-jobbing and gardening, required
frequent solace of this nature. Hale's
brother Tom, a soldier resting from war's
alarms in his native village in a very
undress uniform, consisting of no belt, a
tunic unbuttoned all the way down and
displaying a large expanse of striped shirt,
trousers tucked up round the ankles, a short
pipe, and a muffin-cap perilously askew, considered
it a breach of manners unbecoming a
soldier and a gentleman to permit these
worthy men to drink without his assistance ;
and similar feelings animated his brother
Jim, a sailor, bearing the legend, " H.M.S.

Bellerophon'' on his cap. So the brave
fellows, accommodating their pace to that of
Granter, which was more dignified than
swift, turned in as one man beneath the low
doorway of the Sun, and grouped themselves
about the cosy, sanded bar, where the firelight
was beginning to look cheerily ruddy
in the fading afternoon.

And I said," added Granter, striking the
sanded floor dogmatically with his stick,
' Zend for Miss Lilian — zend fur she.' "

Ay, Granter," growled the smith, " it's all
very well for Miss Lilian. She ain't got a wife
and seven children, and her bread to git."

I ses, ses I," interposed the sceptic in the
smock-frock, who had taken a pull at his
tankard, and was removing the foam from
his lips by the simple application of the back
of his hand, " ' Where's the use of a gal ? '
I've a sin it, and I believes it. I shouldn't
a believed it if I hadn't a sin it."-

You never believes nothing," observed
Jim. " Ah ! if you'd a sin what I've a sin
aboard the Bellyruffian "

"Or if he'd a sin they there snake-charmers
in India, what he won't believe in,"
added the soldier.

Ah ! " broke in the clerk, " you put Miss
Lilian aboard the Bellyruffian^ or take her
out to Inly and let her charm snakes, and
I'll warrant she'll do it. That ar buoy Dick,
whatever she done to he, nobody knows.
A bad 'un he wer, wouldn't do nothing he
hadn't a mind to. You med bate 'un till
you couldn't stand. Wax have broke sticks
about his back, and covered 'un with weals,
but catch he wine to school if he'd a mind
to miche. I ses to Miss Lilian, I ses, ' I've
a bate that ar buoy black and blue I ses,
and I've a kep 'un without vittles this two
days, and he won't do notion he an't a
mind to.' And she ups and ses, ' Stevens,'
she ses, ' I should like to bate you,' she ses ;
I should like to bate you green and taller,'
she ses. ' Lard love 'ee, Miss Lilian, whatever
would ye bate I for ? ' I ses, ses I.
Because you are a fool, Stevens,' she ses,
and you are ruining that buoy, and turning

him into a animal,' lie ses. And she took
'un up Rectory, and kep' 'un there a day, and
sent 'un home as good as gold. And she
made me promise I wouldn't bate 'un no more
for two good weeks, and I ain't bate 'un
since, and he'll do what he's told now
without the stick. ' I should like to bate
you green and taller, Stevens,' she ses. And
she'd a done it, she would, green and taller
ah ! that she would, mates."

I don't deny," said Baines, the tailor,
whose profession rendered him morbid, revolutionary,
and inclined to distrust the utility
of existing institutions, " but what Miss
Lilian may have her uses."

Ah, Baines," interrupted the soldier,
you ain't such a fool as you looks, after all."

Before the stupefied Baines, who was
accustomed to have his remarks received
with reverence, could reply to this insult,
public feeling was suddenly outraged by the
following observation from the smock-frocked
sceptic, the want of wisdom in whom was
accounted for by his having only recently

come to Malbourne from a village at least
ten miles off that centre of intelligence.

But what shall us do when Miss Lilian
gets married ? "

Married ! " shouted the clerk. " And
who ses she's a-going to marry ? "

She med marry ; then agen she needn't,"
replied this foolish person, unabashed by the
dark glances bent upon him.

Miss Lilian," observed Granter, who had
been indulgently listening while he despatched
his beer, and thus affording weaker wits the
opportunity of exercising themselves during
his forbearance, "ain't againe to marry
nobody ; " and, thrusting his staff forwards
and resting his two hands upon it, Granter
looked round the assembly with austere
menace in his shrewd grey eyes.

Nobody dared reply to this, and silence
prevailed, broken only by the sound of good
liquor disappearing down men's throats, and
a weak, half-audible murmur from the smock-frock
about girls being girls, whether gentle
or simple.

I ses to my missus, vive year agone last
Middlemost, ses I," continued Granter, who
chanced to be the grandsire of the indignant
clerk, " ' Miss Lilian ain't one o' your
marrying cart ; ' " and again Granter looked
round the assembly as if challenging them
to deny the undeniable, and was met by an
assenting murmur of '' All's ! "

"Miss Lilian," pursued Granter, with an
air of inspiration, " is turned your and
twenty. Your and twenty year old come
last May is they twins. Well I minds the
night they was barnet. The last time as
ever I drum a 'loss. A frosty night 'twas,
and nipped all the orchards miles round, and
there wasn't no fruit that year. Ah !
Farmer Long he'd a lost dree and dirty
owes lambing-time that year. Well I minds
it. I drum pony-chaise into Oldport, and
fetched out t' doctor. And I ses to my missus,
I ses, when I come home, ' Master's got twins ! '
Ay, that's what I zed, sure enough. And
my missus she ses, ses she, ' Lard love 'ee,
Granter,' she ses, * you don't say zo ! ' she

ses ; " and again Granter paused and looked
round to perceive the effect of his eloquence.

Ay," said the landlord, feeling that
courtesy now obliged him to entertain the
intellects as well as the bodies of his guests,
twins is summit when it comes to that.
Twins is bad enough for poor vol, but when
it comes to ladies and they, Lard 'a massey ! "

Ah ! " murmured Granter, shaking his
head with profound wisdom, and at the same
time regretfully contemplating the vacuum
in his beer-pot, '' them twins done for Mrs.
Maitland. She ain't ben the same 'woman
since, never dimmed to perk up agen after
that. Yine children they was, too, as ever
you'd wish to zee, and brought up on Farmer
Long's Alderney cow, kep' special vor 'um,
as I used to vetch the milk martin' and
evening'. I did, sure enough."

Here Tom, the soldier, who, in virtue of
his red coat, was bound to be susceptible to
feminine charms, opined that Miss Lilian was
still " a smartish-looking gal ; " and Jim, the
sailor, added that he didn't see why she

shouldn't pick up some smart lad yet, for
his heart was warm, and he could not bear to
consign an unoffending girl to the chills of
single blessedness. There was Lieutenant
Everard, of the Bellerophon, a frequent visitor
at the Rectory, for example — as smart an
officer as Jim had ever seen, he added.

Ah, goo on wi' ye ! " cried Grranfer,
greatly refreshed by the polite replenishment
of his pot at Tom's expense. '' Miss Lilian's
as pretty a maid as Tom'll zee in a day's
march. But she won't marry nobody. Yur
why ? ses I. Cause she won't hare the common
cart, and the upper crust they won't hare
she."

Whatever's come over Judkins now ? "
asked Hale, the wheelwright, musingly.
He'd had a drop too much 's afternoon, and
he was a leathern' into Hotspur like mad
coming down shoot.* He hadn't ought to
treat a boss like that."

A man med well drink," said the tailor,
afore trusting himself to a animal like that

A short steep hill on the highway.
VOL I. K

there. Steady as Charlie Judkins was, poor
chap ! What these sere rich men 'a got to
answer for ! "

I never seen a 'loss rampageouser," replied
the smith ; " but I never seen a 'loss Miss
Lilian couldn't quiet, or a ass either."

Your missus 'full be sending for her one
day, then," said Jim ; and the whole assembly
broke into a loud guffaw, after which
Granter very impressively related the history
of the hunted fox, which appeared one day
with his paws on the window-sill of Lilian's
sitting-room, followed by the pack in full
cry, and the whole field at no great distance.
He told how Lilian quickly opened the
window, Reynard leapt in, and she as quickly
shut it ; and how the huntsman, on finding
the hounds at check round the Rectory
window, looked in, and was greatly shocked
to see poor Reynard's pointed nose and
glittering eyes peering out from among the
skirts of a young lady sitting quietly at
work, and tranquilly surveying the baffled
hounds baying outside

Lilian refused to deliver up her fugitive,
holding parley with the master of the hounds
through the closed and latched window, until
the latter had withdrawn his pack ; and it
was not until the premises had been cleared
a good half-hour of every vestige of hound,
horse, and man, that she unbolted door or
window, and suffered her weary, panting
prisoner to depart, which he did with evident
regret and thankfulness for hospitality— a
hospitality poorly requited by him, since he
managed to snatch a chick from the poultry-yard
in effecting his escape.

But no one seemed to think there was anything
unusual in Lilian's power over living
creatures ; it was simply what one expected
of Miss Lilian, just as one expected church
bells to ring and cocks to crow. Nor had
any one thanked her for assisting so effectively
at the shoeing of Hotspur.

Then followed a long history of animals
healed by Lilian, and in particular of a dog
of Ingram Swaynestone's, which the latter
was going to shoot, when she begged its life,

and nursed it into health. Also of the
racers Ingram had at a trainer's, and the
money he lost by them ; of the ' oaks and
beeches at Swaynestone, which had to expiate
these losses ; and of the young fellow's probable
descent to beggary through the paths
of pleasure.

He's a vine young sellers' observed
Granter, at the close of his second pot ; " a
wild 'un surely. His rather was a wild 'un,
too ; 'tis the blood and the high weeding. So
was his grandfather. I minds things as Sir
Lionel did would make 'ee all stare. Men is
just the same as 'losses — weed 'em up, and they
slings. The well-bred 'uns is vive times
skittish than brothers. Would Sir Lionel, he
was the wildest of all — drum his stags into
Oldport four-in-hand, he did, and killed dree
or your vols in the streets. Ah ! times isn't
what they was," sighed Granter, regretfully
draining his pot.

By this time it was dark night. The Sun
windows threw a warm glow over the road ;
the stars sparkled keenly above the thatched

roof of the little hostel ; and the smell of
wood-smoke, mingled with the appetizing
odour of fried pork, red herrings, and onion
soup, rising all over the village, warned the
topers that the hour of supper was approaching,
and they would have dispersed,
however unwillingly, but for the chimes of
waggon-bells along the road, which beguiled
them into waiting while William Grove
deposited his parcels at the Sun, took the one
glass offered by the host, and recounted the
news from Oldport.

CHAPTER YI.

On looking back in after-life to that brisk
winter's walk, both Everard and Maitland
held it as one of their sunniest memories.
Every step seemed to put a fresh lustre in
Cyril's eyes, and add to the wine-like sparkle
of his conversation. In proportion as his
spirits fell at one time, they rose at another
by virtue of his sensitive, emotional temperament
; while Henry's steady, sunny cheerfulness
went on deepening more slowly, but
perhaps more surely, and at last bubbled
over. Presently they passed a woman toiling
np a hill with a baby and a basket, of both
which burdens Everard relieved her, to her
unbounded surprise, coolly handing the basket
to Cyril, and himself bearing the baby, which
he tossed till it crowed with ecstasy. Having

left these trifles at a roadside cottage, with a
shilling to requite the woman for the loan
of her infant, they reached Swaynestone
Park, and met Ben Lee, who was crossing
the road on his way from his cottage to the
stables.

Everard greeted him with a cordiality
to which Lee replied gruffly, and with an
evident intention of hurrying on.

"Oh, come, Lee," said Everard, '• you are
not so busy as all that ! How are they all up
at the Temple ? Alma's roses in full bloom,
I hope ? And my patient, Mrs. Lee, has she
quite got over the accident ? I shall be
looking in very soon."

You may save yourself the trouble. Dr.
Everard," returned Lee, in a surly manner ;
'thank 'ee kindly all the same. But I want
no more gentlefolk up at my house. I've
had enough of they. Good afternoon, Mr.
Cyril; glad to see you home, sir;" and,
touching his hat, he passed quickly on,
leaving Everard in a state of stupefaction in
the middle of the road.

"What the deuce is the matter with
Lee ? " he exclaimed. " Surely he can't be
drunk, Cyril ! "

All the light had faded from Cyril's
radiant face. The moment he caught sight
of the coachman, he made the old movement
of pressing his hand to his side in a spasm of
pain, and he seemed almost as impatient of
delay as Lee himself.

I never heard of his drinking," he replied
evasively. " Perhaps things have gone
wrong with him. Look here, Henry ! let us
cut the high-road, and get home across
country ; we shall save half a mile, and find
the ladies at tea.'^

What sense can you get out of a fellow
in love ? " returned Everard, leading the way
over the stile. " For him mankind dwindles
down to a slim puss of a girl, with dimples
and a pair of brown eyes. Go on, man !
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may ; ' " and,
lilting out the gay old ballad with all the
strength of his honest lungs, Everard resumed
his light-hearted manner, and did not observe

that Cyril's gaiety had become forced and
spasmodic.

A ruddy glow above the wooded crests of
Northover was all that remained of day when
they entered the Rectory grounds by the
churchyard path, and found Lilian, with the
cat gravely coiled at her feet at the hall door,
darkly outlined against the faint, crimson
light of the hall stove.

Your instinct is infallible, Lilian," said
Cyril, embracing her ; " for you were not
even sure that I was coming to-night. Dear
Lilian, it is nice to see you again ! "

"I am glad not to be wholly eclipsed by
the new star," she replied, laughing, yet
scanning his face with some anxiety, while
she continued to hold his hand. Then she
turned to Henry, over whose spirits an unaccountable
damp had descended, and offered
him her hand ; while Cyril stooped to stroke
Mark Antony, who was triumphantly rubbing
himself round and round his legs with loud
purrs and exultant tail. ^' I ana so glad you
have brought him, Henry," she said ; adding.

in a lower voice, "He is looking horribly
ill."

By this time Mr. Maitland, the children,
the dogs, and all the servants were in the
hall, greeting Cyril with such enthusiasm
that Henry remained for some moments unnoticed
by Lilian's side.

You all seem extremely glad to see Cyril'
he observed to her, with rueful emphasis.

Dear Henry, I know we are horribly rude
to our guests when we have Cyril to spoil,"
she replied, laying her hand gently on his
arm.

He took the hand in his and pressed it
warmly to his side, and felt that the rainbow
radiance had suddenly returned to his universe.
But the bright moment was very
brief, for it was now his turn to be welcomed,
and by the time he was free to go into the
drawing-room, Lilian was not to be seen."

But where is Marion ? " asked Cyril,
looking round the drawing-room, after he
had duly saluted his mother, who was, as
usual, on her couch.

I think you will find her in my room,"
replied Lilian, as indifferently as if she had
not specially arranged for the lovers to meet
there. " We dine punctually at half-past
seven. No, Henry, you foolish fellow, you
are to stay here," she added, as Cyril left
the room, and Henry attempted to follow
him.

A brother, I suppose, is of no account in
these daj^s," grumbled Everard, seating himself
by Mrs. Maitland's couch with a contented
air, nevertheless. " All this courtship
is sickening to me, Mrs. Maitland. As for
that hopeful son of yours, not one word of
sense have I got out of him this day, or do
I expect to get for the next two months.
Thank goodness, it must come to an end
then, and they will settle down to a life's
squabbling like sane people."

Ah, young people ! young people ! " said
Mr. Maitland, looking very happy about it.
"We must not be hard upon them, Henry.
We all go mad once — Lennie will turn that
back into Latin for you, eh ? — But we consider

Cyril and Marion a very sensible young
couple, don't we, Nellie ? "

I think," replied Mrs. Maitland, laughing,
that we consider everything that Cyril does
sensible. When his biography is written, it
will be said that his family did, to a certain
extent, appreciate him."

Whereupon the conversation turned upon
Cyril and his doings and his prospects, and
their anxiety about him, and suddenly the
thought struck chill to Everard's marrow —
What would happen, in case of Cyril's failure,
death, or other misadventure, to the innocent
family circle of which he was the central
hope ?

The curtains were drawn snugly against
the frosty cold without. Eliza, all smiles
and fresh cap-ribbons, brought a lamp and
tea ; and Everard wondered if heaven could
possibly be an improvement on the present.
No one ever made or poured out tea like
Lilian, he thought ; no tea ever had so divine
an effect on the nervous system as hers. For
weeks he had dreamed of sitting thus by the

drawing-room fire, his whole being pervaded
by the delicious fact of her presence, and
now he found the reality sweeter than the
dream.

Not for weeks only, but for years afterwards,
did the memory of that fireside scene
shine warmly on the darkness of his life.
The lamplight was so soft that the fire, on
which Lennie had thrown some fir-cones,
disputed for mastery with it, and added to
the cheery radiance of the pretty drawing-room.
On one side of the fire, Mrs. Maitland,
still beautiful, though faded, and exquisitely
dressed, lay on her couch amidst becomingly
arranged furs and shawls ; Henry sat by heron
a low seat, and rendered her various
little filial attentions ; Mr. Maitland sat facing
the fire, with its light playing on his silvery
hair and clean-cut features, the prototype
of Cyril's.

On the other side of the hearth sat Lilian,
with the tea-table at her side ; Winnie was
on a stool at her feet, her head pressed to
her sister's knee, on which reposed, in careless

majesty, Mark Antony, gracefully toying
with the golden curls tossed in pretty negligence
within reach of his paws. The warm
rug before the fire was occupied by the terrier
and the pug, the children's tea-cups, and the
recumbent full-length of Lennie, who sprang
to his feet from time to time to pass people's
cups.

Lilian spoke little. She and Henry did
not address each other once; but his eye
never lost the picture on the opposite side
of the fire, which reminded him of Raphael's
Virgin of the Cancelling. It was not that
Lilian's intelligent face in the least resembled
that harmless, faultlessly featured Madonna's,
though her deep grey eyes were bent down
much in the same way on the child-face and
sportive animal on her knee as the Virgin's
in the picture. It was the look of divine,
innocent, ineffable content that she wore.
And yet Everard did not appear to be looking
at this charming picture, though Lilian knew
that he saw it, and was equally conscious of
the picture he made, his broad shoulders and

athletic limbs affording a fine contrast to her
mother's fragile, faded grace.

And what are your plans, Henry ? " asked
Mr. Maitland at last, when Cyril's affairs had
been discussed over and over again.

I think of buying a good practice near
Southampton, and settling down as a country
doctor," he replied. " I have enough property
to make me fairly independent, and shall be
able to carry on my scientific pursuits without
fear of starvation."

And the next step, I suppose, will be to
take a wife ? "

'' The very next step," replied Everard,
looking thoughtfully into the glowing heart
of the fire.

Lilian bent her head a little, and caught
away a curl at which Mark Antony was
snatching. " If no one is going to have anymore
tea, pussie shall have the rest of the
cream," she said.

Cyril, in the mean time, quickly found his
way to the well-known room called Lilian's,
where Marion was sitting, in the dusk, alone.

but acutely conscious of the light, swift steps
along the corridor which bore her expected
lover to her side. They met in silence, each
young heart being too full for speech ; and it
was not until Cyril had released Marion from
his embrace, and placed her in a chair by the
fireside, that he said, kneeling on the rug
near her,

Am I indeed quite forgiven, Marion ? ''

"You foolish fellow! How many times
have I written that word ? " she replied,
laughing.

Written, yes ; but I want to hear it from
your own lips — I want to be quite sure," he
continued, with unabated earnestness, the
blue fire of his eyes bent upon her soft
brown gaze, while he held both her hands
pressed against his breast.

Dear Cyril, you make too much of what
is better forgotten," she said. "We quarrelled
long ago and made it up long ago, though
we have not met since."

^' Forgotten ? Oh, Marion, do you think
I can ever forget? And though you forgive

me, do you think I can ever forgive
myself ? "

Certainly. Don't lovers always quarrel ;
and are they not better friends afterwards?
And don't you mean to forgive poor me ?
I have forgiven us both ; though, indeed,
those few months were very dreadful."

Dreadful ! They were more than dreadful
to me. Oh, Marion, if you knew, if you
only dreamed, how unworthy I am, you who
are so white, so stainless ! You can never
guess. Sometimes I wonder that I ever dare
hope to call you mine, so black am I in
comparison with you."

Cyril, this is lover's talk — exaggeration.
It makes me feel ashamed," she replied, soft
blushes stealing over her gentle face in the
firelight ; "it makes me remember that I
am but a weak, foolish girl, and greatly need
the guidance of a strong, good man like
you."

Good ! God help me ! " he exclaimed,
turning his face from the modest glance that
seemed to scorch his very soul. " Marion,

VOL. I. L

I am not good ; there is no weaker man than
I on God's earth, and without you I think I
should be utterly lost. Do you know — no,
you never can know — what it is to be able to
love a good woman ; to feel the vile n less die
out of one at the very thought of her ; to be
strengthened and purified by the very atmosphere
she breathes ; — to feel at the thought
of losing her — Marion, dear Marion, I think
sometimes if you knew the darkness that was
upon my soul during those wretched months
when we were parted, I fear — oh, I fear
that you would cast me off with loathing
and scorn "

Marion smiled a gentle smile, only dimly
seeing the passionate agony in Cyril's
shadowed face. " I know that I could never
scorn you'' she interrupted, with tender
emphasis.

Cyril bent his head over her hands in
silence for a few seconds ; and then, looking
up again, said, in a more collected manner,
Marion, will you take me, worthless as I
am, and bear with me and cleave to me

through good and evil report, and help mein
spite of the past, to be a better man ? "

Dear," she replied gently, " I have taken
you for better and for worse. I don't expect
you to be faultless, though I do admire and
honour you above all men. I should be
sorry if you were faultless, because, you
know, I am not faultless myself; I am not
like Lilian, even. We shall help each other
to be wiser and better, I hope."

Cyril had averted his face from the innocent,
loving gaze he could not endure, but
he turned once more and looked into Marion's
charming face, which was radiant in a sudden
burst of firelight, while his own remained in
darker shadow than ever. " Promise once
more," he said, in low, impassioned tones,
that you will never leave me."

Marion suffered herself to glide into the
embrace before her, and repeated the promise,
half laughing to herself at the foolish importance
assigned to trifles by lovers, and half
believing in the intensity of the oft-repeated
assurances, and was very happy until a

discreet clatter of silver and china was heard
outside, followed by a knock at the door, and,
after an interval, the entrance of Eliza, who
was edified to find Marion at one end of the
room, adjusting some china on a bracket, and
Cyril at the other, gazing out of the window
with great interest at the frosty stars.

When the candles were lighted, the curtains
drawn, and the tea poured out, all
traces of his passionate agitation had left
Cyril's beautiful, severely cut features, and
he sat by Marion's side, tea-cup in hand, quiet
and content, the very picture of the ideal
curate of commonplace just dropped in to tea.

Marion now saw him clearly, and was
distressed at his wan and worn appearance,
and also at a certain look he never had before
the fatal winter she passed in the Mediterranean
with her brother. Since then she
had met him face to face but once, on the
day when he came to ask forgiveness and
renew the engagement, and then, naturally,
he did not look like his old self. Was it
only toil which had robbed Cyril of the bloom

of his you til ? she wondered ; and she sighed.
It was time yoii had a hohdaj, I think,"
she said softly. " You must not be such an
ascetic any more ; you do not belong to a
celibate priesthood, remember."

This is not exactly the cell of an anchorite,"
replied Cyril, with the smile which
won so many hearts, as he rested his head
comfortably on the back of his low chair,
nd gazed upon Marion's slender grace.
'' Mayn't I have another lump of sugar,
Marion ? Lilian and I have expended much
thought on the decoration of this room."

And taste," said Marion, looking round
upon the pictures and bric-a-brac and various
evidences of cultured taste, though it is not
to be supposed that the two lovers were thereto
discuss nothing but the decoration of
Lilian's room.

Cyril had spoken hotly of his dislike to
Marion's Mediterranean tour ; and Marion's
pride had been touched till she reminded him
that she was entirely her own mistress, and
might probably continue so to the end of the

chapter. Then ensued a quarrel, only half
serious on either side, a quarrel that a word
or a look would have righted in a moment.
But, unfortunately, Marion had to join her
friends, the Wilmot, sooner than she anticipated,
and thus hurried off before she could
say good-bye to Cyril and make things
straight with one little smile.

The game of quarrelling, when carried on
between two young, ardent lovers, is a very
pretty diversion, but cannot possibly be
played at a distance, as these two found to
their cost. Deprived of the fairy artillery
of glances, sighs, voices, and gestures, and
confined to the heavy ordnance of letters,
they could not bring things to a happy
conclusion. Letters were first hot, then cold,
then rare, then non-existent, until one day
Cyril wrote, after long silence, to ask Marion
how long she meant to play with his affections.
Marion replied that if Cyril considered
their engagement as a mere pastime,
the sooner it was broken off the better.
Cyril wrote back to release her from an

engagement which he said he perceived had
become distasteful to her.

This was in March. At Whitsuntide,
Everard spent some time at Malbourne,
whence Cyril went to Belminster for ordination
at Trinity. He thought Cyril unhappy,
and after the ordination he asked
him, subsequently to some conversation
with Lilian on the subject, if he still cared
for Marion, to which Cyril replied in the
affirmative. Then Henry told him that
Marion was pining and showing tendencies
to consumption. She was the kind of woman,
he said, whose health is perfect in happiness,
but who breaks down the moment that elixir
of life is denied. He thought that she loved
Cyril still.

Thus emboldened, Cyril owned himself in
the wrong, and sued for a return to favour.
He could, however, only afford one brief
interview with Marion, since he had with
some difficulty freed himself from the curacy
at Shotover, which had given him a title to
deacon's orders, and got himself placed on a

mission staff in the East of London, where
he led a semi-monastic life in a house with
his fellow-curates, and enjoyed to the full the
hard labour for which he had clamoured so
eagerly while at Shotover.

The situation was eminently unfavourable to
courtship, while it seemed to render marriage
absolutely impracticable. Cyril, however,
found a means of reconciling duty with inclination,
and easily convinced his rector that
his labours would be equally valuable if he
had a home of his own within easy reach of
the scene of his toils, and thus they were to
be married in the spring. The narrow means
which so frequently darken the horizon of
curates' love-dreams had no place in this
romance, since both Cyril and Marion had
wherewithal to keep the wolf from the door.

But they are together at last, and the dark
days which divided them are to be forgotten.

When I hear the word ' misery,' I think
of last spring," said Marion, laughing.

Cyril's face clouded, and he turned away
and gazed at the fire. '' Never think of it ! "

he exclaimed, suddenly turning a bright,
animated gaze upon Marion. " I shall drive
it from your memory, dear, by every act and
thought of my life."

Dinner, the hour so fondly welcomed by
mortals in general, came all too soon for
these ; and, indeed, it was not till the others
had taken their places at the table that
Marion made her appearance, flushed and
charming, and met her brother for the first
time since his arrival in the house.

This is an improvement," he said, holding
her at arm's length to look at her, '' on the
mealy-faced girl I saw three months ago.
Pray, miss, where do you get your rouge ? "

Manufactured on the estate, Henry,"
replied Mr. Maitland. " Native Malbourne
rouge. Let us hope Cyril may acquire some
of it."

It comes off easily," said Everard, gravely,
while Cyril became absorbed in Mark Antony,
who sat on a stool at Lilian's side at the
head of the table, with his chin on a level
with the cloth, and who was so enchanted

to find himself with a twin on each side of
him, that his deep mellifluous purrs threatened
to drown the conversation.

You will be glad to hear that Granter is
still alive and well, and wiser than ever,
Henry," said Mrs. Maitland, who was sitting
on his right, having, as usual, resigned the
head of the table to Lilian.

'• I congratulate Malbourne, Mrs. Maitland.
It could never go on without Grranfer's
advice. And the discontented Baines has
not yet blown you all up ? And friend
Wax still wields the ferule in defiance of
Lilian ? "

But not in church," said Lilian.

'' Because Lilian steals the cane if he
brings it," added Marion.

And is anybody engaged, or born, or
dead ? " continued Everard, gaily. " By the
way, what has happened to Ben Lee ? It
struck me that he had been drinking this
afternoon. And our friend Alma, how is
she ? "

There was a dead silence for a second or

two, and Everard's eager gaze of inquiry
met no response from the eyes bent resolutely
on the plates.

Let me send you some more beef, Henry,"
said Mr. Maitland, looking up from his joint
with sudden briskness. " Come, where is
your boasted appetite ? Yes, bring Dr.
Everard's plate, Eliza."

But Alma ? Oh, I hope there is nothing
wrong with her ? " continued Everard, looking
round with a dismayed gaze, while Mrs.
Maitland laid her hand warningly on his
sleeve. " Oh, Lilian, Alma is not dead ? "

Worse," replied Lilian, in a low voice —
"• far worse."

There were tears, he saw, trembling upon
her eyelashes ; and if ever tears resembled
pearls, then, he thought, did those precious
drops, and if ever mortal woman was dear,
then was Lilian. He saw it all now on the
instant, and he remembered how much Lilian
had done for Alma, and how at Whitsuntide
she had spoken of her and cared about her
absence from the Sacrament, and so dismayed

was he by this catastrophe that, having none
of the ready resources and fine tact which,
ensure social success, he simply, like the
honest, clumsy fellow he was, dropped his
knife and fork, and gazed horror-struck
before him. Fortunately, at that moment
Lennie, who was stretched on the hearthrug,
intent upon " Ivanhoe," bethought himself of
an important event, and took advantage of
the silence to proclaim it.

I say, Henry," he exclaimed, " what do
you think ? I'm going into trousers tomorrow."


Why, it was all over Oldport," said Cyril.
Bills in every window. * Oh yes ! oh. yes !
oh yes ! Know all by these presents that
Lennie Maitland goes into trousers tomorrow.'
"

Oh, won't I smack you by-and-by ! "
observed Lennie, tranquilly returning to the
gets of Brian de Bois-guilbert.

I think, Cyril, you scarcely appreciate
the honour your brother intends you," said
Mr. Maitland. " He dons these virile garments

for the purpose of hearing your sermon.
He evidently holds trousers to be conducive
to a pious frame of mind, or at least to a certain
mental receptivity ; eh, Lennie, lad ? "

The unfortunate tailor's life has been a
burden to him in the fear that the suit would
not be ready in time'' said Mrs. Maitland.

In time to hear Oywil preach," added
Marion, laughing.

How many times have they been tried
on, Lennie ? '' asked Lilian.

Never you mind their rubbish," said
Everard ; "■ ask Miss Marion how often she
calls me Henry ? "

And Cywil will line the pockets with
silver for you," added Cyril, who was looking
very happy, having, as Eliza observed with
satisfaction, his hand locked in Marion's under
the tablecloth.

No sooner had the ladies withdrawn, than
Everard burst out, " And who is the
scoundrel ? "

Softly, softly, Henry ! beware of rash
judgments," returned Mr. Maitland, whose

face took a grieved look. " Nothing is known,
which is hateful to me because of the great
wave of scandal and the dreadful scorching
of tongues which arises about the matter.
Lee, I know not why, assumes that it is a
gentleman ; and public opinion, and, I fear I
must add, his reputation, point to Ingram
Swaynestone. Sir Lionel has spoken to him,
but he absolutely denies it ; and, indeed "

"In short," broke in Cyril, who was extremely
busy with some walnuts on his plate,
the less said about these miserable scandals
the better."

True, quite true," said his father, with a
heavy sigh.

"- But Alma ! the little girl we used to
play with at the Temple, with Lilian, and
often Ingram, and the girl Swaynestones ! "
cried Henry. " I cannot believe any wrong
of her. She has been wronged — of that I am
sure."

Truly, I had never dreamed of such
trouble for Alma, poor child ! " said Mr. Maitland.
" Elsewhere in the parish, of course,

one dreads such things, knowing their temptations.
It is a heavy grief for me, Henry,
as you may imagine."

And for Lilian," added Everard. " Yes,
I know how you love your spiritual children,
sir, and can imagine your distress. And poor
Lee, he was so proud of her. He is sullen, I
see ; a sure sign of grief. Oh, I hope he is
not unkind to her ! "

'' The stepmother is hard, and has a sharp
tongue ! She forgets what poor Alma did
for her child. Altogether, it is a sad, sad
history. The Temple, I suppose, holds more
unhappiness than any house in the county."

Oh, really, my dear father," exclaimed
Cyril, who seemed pained beyond endurance,
you must not take it so to heart ! She is
not the first "

By Jove, Maitland ! " interrupted Everard,
^' you are the last man from whom I should
expect an echo of Mephistopheles. He never
said anything more diabolical than that — ' Sie
list die Este night.' "

Cyril coloured so hotly that he exhibited

the phenomenon of a black blush, while Mr.
Maitland hastened to say that Cyril was
in a different position from Faust, who had
wrought the wrong. " And then," he added,
Cyril is doubtless weary of sin and sorrow,
of which, in his parish, he must have far more
than we in our simple rustic home have any
idea of, busy as Satan undoubtedly is everywhere."


Quite so," returned Cyril, wearily. " My
words sounded unfortunately, Everard ; but,
as my father suggests, when one has breakfasted
and lunched for weeks upon peccant
parishioner, one does not enjoy the same
dish at dinner."

Everard's rejoinder was prevented by the
intrusion of a sunny head at the door, and
the clear voice of Winnie was heard crying,
Do make haste ! Me and Lennie want to
Know what is in that basket, and Lilian won't
let us." Whereupon Cyril sprang up and
chased the delighted child through the hall
and into the drawing-room, where she took
refuge, screaming, in Lilian's dress.

The basket which so stimulated the
children's curiosity was well known to
contain the young men's Christmas gifts to
the ftiraily, and was forthwith uncovered
amid a scene of joyous turbulence, and had
its contents distributed.

The task of collecting the parcels in the
basket and conveying them to the drawing-room
had been performed by Eliza with thrills
of delicious agony, for it was almost beyond
human nature not to take at least one peep
at a packet containing the very ribbon she
longed for, and at another revealing glimpses
of a perfect love of a shawl, which proved
to be destined for cook. However, she appeared
with a perfectly demure countenance
when fetched by Lennie, with the other
maids, to receive her presents. By that time
Mr. Maitland had become lost to all earthly
cares, in an arm-chair, with an old battered
volume Everard had picked up at a bookstall
in Paris for him ; Winnie was wondering
some fairy had informed Henry that a fisli-
king-rod of her very own had been her soul's

VOL. I. M

unattainable star for months ; and Lennie
was dancing round the room with an illustrated
" Don Quixote " clasped in his arms.

It was pleasant to see Cyril making his
gifts. Each was offered with a suitable word,
tender or droll, according to the recipient,
and with a grace that an emperor might have
envied, though a carping observer would
have detected that the gifts themselves had
been purchased as nearly as possible at the
same shop. As for Everard, he made his
offerings with a sneaking air, and seemed
glad to get them off his hands. He threw
the " Don Quixote " at Lennie, with " Here,
you scamp ! " and placed the invalid reading-stand
by Mrs. Maitland, with an awkward,
I don't know if this thing will be any good
to you."

Why, Henry, who told you that father's
life has been a burden to him for months for
want of that old edition ? " asked Lilian''

He is a wizard ; he should be burnt,"
laughed Cyril, reflecting inwardly that while
his gifts cost money, Everard's cost time

and thought and infinite trouble in hunting
out.

But ain't Lilian to have anything ? " inquired
the ingenuous Lennie ; for Lilian and
Cyril never gave each other presents — they
had things so much in common, and Everard
appeared to have forgotten her.

Lilian appealed, as usual, to Mark Antony
for sympathy, and Everard grew very hot,
while Cyril absorbed himself in fitting the
bracelet he had given to Marion upon her
slender arm. Then Lilian looked up.

'' It was horrid of you to forget me, Henry,"
she said.

I didn't forget you," stammered Everard ;
but the thing was so trifling I hadn't the

courage • It's only a photograph of the

picture which inspired Browning's ^ Guardian
Angel.' Here it is, if you think it worth
having. You said you would give anything
to see Gruercino's picture at Fan."

Oh, Henry, how very kind and thoughtful
of you ! " exclaimed Lilian, her face transfigured
with pleasure. " But I thought there
was no photograph ? "

Well, no ; but young Start was doing
Italy in the autumn, and I got him to go to
Fan with his camera. It wasn't far out of
his way," he replied, in a tone of apology.

Lennie's solicitude being relieved, he and
the others were absorbed each after his own
fashion ; no one observed these two. Lilian
looked up at Henry, who had thrown himself
into a low chair by her side, so that their
faces were on a level. Her eyes were dewy
and bright ; they gazed straight into his for a
minute, and then fell. " You had it done forme,"
she murmured.

It was the crowning moment of Everard's
happy night. He bent over the spirit-like
hand resting on the cat; and unseen pressed
his lips to it. He knew that Lilian loved
him, and knew that he loved her. He said
nothing more ; it was enough bliss for one
day.

CHAPTER Iii.

Before going to rest that night, Mr. Maitland
led Everard to his study, and there
subjected him to a searching cross-examination
on the subject of Cyril's care-worn and
unhealthy appearance, which Everard referred
to his overhead in his labours, and the excessive
austerities which he practised.

"It would be all very well for him to
mortify his flesh if he had too much of it to
balance his spirit," Everard observed ; " but,
as a matter of fact, he has too little."

Cyril is sensitive," his father replied ;
his nerves are too tensely strung, like those
of all extremely refined and poetic natures.
"We thought, Lilian and I, that it was the
estrangement from Marion which was preying
on him. It was that which caused him to

leave Sliotover, and plunge into this terrific
London work — that and, of course, higher
motives."

Cyril, though healthy, is delicate, '^ replied
Everard. " He ought never to fast ; he cannot
bear it, especially when working. His brain
will give way under such discipline. Observe
him tomorrow when he preaches. There is
too much nervous excitement''

The next morning Cyril did not appear till
the end of breakfast, and then took nothing
but a cup of coffee.

*' Really, Cyril, I did think Sunday at least
was a feast-day ! " cried Everard, pausing in
his own manful assault on a well-piled plate
of beef.

But Cyril is to celebrate to-day ; he must
fast'' Lilian explained ; and then Everard
observed that Mr. Maitland's breakfast consisted
of nothing, and groaned within himself,
and asked his friends if they considered it
decorous for clergymen to faint in the midst
of public worship.

"When a man has to work, he should feed

himself into proper condition," he said to unheeding
ears.

After breakfast, the Maitland family repaired
in a body to the Sunday school, and
Everard went out to smoke a pipe alone, and,
the frost being keen, he wore an overcoat,
finding one of his own in the hall. He had
some difficulty in putting it on, and could not
by. any means induce it to meet across the
chest. This gave him great satisfaction.
It cannot be that my Sunday-go-to-meeting
clothes take up so much room," he mused.
'' No ; I am increasing in girth round the
chest. Who could imagine that one night's
happiness and country air would produce such
an effect ? A new scientific fact."

It was pleasant on the lawn in the frosty
Sunday stillness. The sunbeams danced on
the evergreens and smiled on the Shotover
parklands ; a robin sang its cheerfully
pathetic song ; and a flock of rooks uttered
their breezy caws in the pale blue above his
head. Everard smoked with profound enjoyment
; he thought of last night's enchantment,

and the promise lie had just extracted
from Lilian to sit with him in the Eectory
pew instead of with the school-children. His
hands were thrust for warmth into his coat-pockets,
and in one of them he felt the square
outline of a letter, which he drew out, wondering
— since his habits were neat and
methodical, as became a student of natural
science — how he came to leave a letter there.
The letter, however, had no envelope and
no address. He opened it, and found, in the
half-formed, clear writing of an unlearned
person, probably some patient in humble life,
the following : —

No, I will never, never marry you.
What good could that do me, now you do not
love me no more — me that loved you better
than Heaven and her own poor soul ? Would
I like to see you miserable, and spoil your
prosper ? To marry the likes of me would
ruin you, and how could that make me
happy ? Marry her ; it is better for you. I
have done wrong for love of you, and God

will punish me. But you are sorry, and will
be forgiven. Farewell for ever.

Your broken-hearted

The gracious light of the wintry morning
seemed to fade out of the pale pure sky ;
there was no more delight in the robin's
song ; the bright crystals of the hoar-frost
sparkled in vain for Everard. " Why, why
are there such things ? " he murmured.
'' Why was Cyril's echo of Mephistopheles
so much more poignant in its cynicism
because of its truth ? "

The weak suffering, the strong going scotfree
; Alcestis plunging, love-radiant, into the
darkness of Hades, while Admetus rejoices in
the light of heaven ; women trusting, and
men deceiving — what a world ! All the confused
misery of the painful insoluble riddle of
earth seemed to awake and trouble the clear
happiness of Everard's soul at the story told
in the poor little scrap of paper, the more
pathetic for its bad spelling and artless

grammar. And low came such an epistle
in this pocket ? Doubtless some friend had
borrowed bis coat; some heedless rackety
medical student, perchance, and flavoured it
with tobacco and correspondence. " Sie list
die Este night," the rooks seemed to say in
their pleasant, fresh morning caws.

But now the bells came chiming slowly on
the clear air, those dear, drowsy three strokes
which awoke in his heart so many echoes of
home and boyhood and sweet innocent life
beneath the beloved roof where Lilian dwelt ;
bells calling people to come and pray, to
think of God and heaven, and forsake all the
sin and sorrow of the troubled earth — calling
people to hear how even such black things as
the letter told of might be made white again
like snow ; to hear the kind fatherly counsels
of such as Mr. Maitland or Cyril. And his
heart swelled when he thought that Cyril
had devoted his stainless youth, his bright
promise, and his splendid gifts to a calling
which, however vainly, tried to stem the tide
of all this mad, sad evil, and lift men out of

the mire of earth's misery. How beautiful
to have Cyril's faith, and the power of thus
consecrating himself! How poor in comparison
his own career, devoted merely to
the healing of men's bodies, to the satisfaction
of noble desire for knowledge, and the
widening the horizon of men's thoughts !

Like all thinkers, and especially those
whose thoughts dwell much on the study of
natural facts, Everard had many doubts, and
often feared that the Christianity so dear to
him through instinct, training, and association,
might be, after all, but a fairy dream.
But the atmosphere of Malbourne, and more
especially the influence of Mr. Maitland's
genuine and practical piety, together with
Cyril's bright enthusiasm, quenched these
doubts as nothing else could ; and now the
village bells fell like balm on his troubled
soul, and he responded with cheery good
temper to Lennie, who came bounding over
the lawn in the proud consciousness of
trousers, crying, " Come along, Henry, and
look at Lilian's donkey."

He thrust the paper in his pocket, and,
taking the little fellow's hand, trotted off
with him towards Winnie, who was approaching
them at headlong pace, with
curls streaming in the wind, and soon seized
his other hand, and led him to the meadow,
where he beheld one of the sorriest beasts he
had ever set eyes on, cropping the frosty
grass, and winking lazily in the sun.

"What can Lilian do with such a creature ?''
he asked.

Oh, she makes it happy, like all her
things," replied Lennie. " Won't you stare
when you see her three-legged cat, and the
fox with the broken leg she has in the stable ! "

'' She likes hurt things," commented Winnie,
while Lennie related how Lilian met this
donkey one day in the road leading over the
downs. It was harnessed to a cart laden
with vegetables, and had fallen between the
shafts, where its owner, a brutal, bad fellow,
well known in Malbourne, was furiously belabouring
it.

Didn't he stare when Lilian caught him

by the collar and pulled him off the donkey ! "
said Lennie. " Then he fell all of a tremble,
and Lilian told him he would be sent to
prison or fined. And he said he was too
poor to buy another donkey, and couldn't
help this one growing old and weak. So
Lilian gave him ten shillings for it."

Dear Lilian ! " Everard said to himself, ashe
looked at the wretched beast, with its stiff
limbs and body scarred by old sores and
stripes. " Which do you love best, Winnie,
Lilian or Cyril ? "

Cyril," replied both children, unhesitatingly,
but could give no reason for their
preference, until Lennie, after long cogitation,
said, " He does make a fellow laugh so."

Everard smiled, and thought of Wordsworth's
boy with his weathercock. The day
was warmer now, and bidding Lennie run
indoors with his great coat, he set off to
church with the children.

It was a matter of time for a person of
any consideration to get through Malbourne
Churchyard, for there, grouped upon either

side the porch, lounged a little crowd of
Malbourne worthies, solemnly passing the
churchgoers in review, and headed, of course,
by Granter in a clean white smock-frock,
and with his hale old many-coloured visage
and veined hands looking purplish in the
frosty air. Tom Hale was there, making a
bright centre to the cool-toned picture in his
red tunic and spotless, well-brushed clothes ;
while Jim, with open breast and sailor garb,
lent a bit of picturesque that not even the
Sunday coats of Baines's manufacture could
quite subdue.

Lennie held up his head, and felt that his
trousers were making a deep impression ;
while Everard stopped and wished a good
morning to them all, smock-frocks, Sunday
coats, and uniforms, and received a little
dignified patronage from Granter, who had
always regarded him with some disparagement,
as being neither a Swaynestone nor a
Maitland, but a mere appendage to the latter
family, a circumstance which helped to render
Granter the deho:ht of Everard's life.

The present moment did not find Granter
conversational, his mental powers being-concentrated
on observing the animated
scene before him. There vas Farmer Long,
with his wife and daughters in their warm
scarlet and purples, to scrutinize as they
strolled along the road and over the churchyard
path ; then the more distant farmers,
who drove up to the loch-gate in old-fashioned
gigs, and, having dropped their families,
hastened to the Sun to put up the strong,
coarse-limbed horses ; then came the Garrets
from Northover, new people, whom Malbourne
regarded, with a mixture of scorn
and envy, as mere mushroom pretenders.
They came on foot, their own gates being
but a stone's-throw from the church, a handsome
family of sons and daughters, coeval
with the Maitlandss. To them Granter's
salutation was almost infinitesimal in its
elaborate graduation. Then, blending with
the drowsy chime of the three bells, arose the
clatter of hoofs and the roll of wheels, and
the Swaynestone landau, with its splendid

high-stepping horses, swept easily up to the
gate, the silver-mounted harness, the silken
coats of the steeds, the panels, and the revolving
wheel-spokes flashing in the sun.
Granter did not know it, but perhaps he
dimly felt that the splendour of this apparition
somehow enlarged and beautified the
dim, narrow horizon of his life.

Ben Lee's very livery, not to speak of his
skilful and effective driving, contributed
vaguely to Granter's importance ; as also did
the courteous elegance and finely built form
of Sir Lionel, and the manner in which, the
footman having retired at a look, he handed
out Lady Swaynestone and his daughter
Ethel, in their velvets and furs. But Granter
was distressed to see that Ben Lee no longer
drove up with his former dash, and turned
his shining steeds in the direction of the Sun
with no more consequence than if he had
been driving a mere brewer's dray. " Ah,
Ben ain't the man he was ! " he muttered,
after having helped Sir Lionel and his
family with the sunshine of his approbation
into church.

Then came the tripping, whispering procession
of school-children, led by the rector,
followed by Wax, who was involved in the
double misery of new Sunday broadcloth and
the absence of his cane, without which emblem
of authority he was ever a lost man ; and last
of all came Cyril, who found time for a word
and a smile for each of the group, and left
them all exhilarated by his passing presence
as if by a draught of wine. Then the bells
ceased, the loungers entered the church, and
Granter himself, the sunshine warming his
wintry white hair, walked slowly with the
aid of his stout oak staff up the centre aisle
to his allotted place.

He was already seated, and Cyril's musical
voice had given a deeper pathos to the
sentence, " Hide thy face from my sins,"
when Ingram Swaynestone and his sister
Maude entered, rosy and fresh from their long
brisk walk in the frosty morning. Ingram
Swaynestone was tall and fair and strongly
built, the typical young Englishman, who
belongs to no class and only one country,

VOL. I.

physically perfect, good-tempered, and well-spoken,
with a perfect digestion and a
nervous system nndistraiight by intellectual
burdens and riddles of the painful earth.
His appearance with his pretty, fair-haired
sister caused a tiny stir, almost imperceptible,
like a summer breath through ripe corn,
amongst the fairer portion of the congregation,
with whom he was extremely popular,
not only on account of his good looks and
known appreciation of feminine charms, but
also because of a faint delicious aroma of
wickedness that hung about his name.

The devotions of several undoubtedly pious
young maidens were more than once interrupted
for the purpose of looking to see if he
Alas looking, which he certainly was at everyone
of them in turn, when opportunity permitted
; while Cyril's beautiful voice rang
through the church, and Everard and Lilian,
who had always loved and admired the simple
majesty of the Liturgy, felt that they had
never before known its real beauty.

When he read of the Massacre of the

Innocents, one or two women cried. The
tone in which he read that Rachel was
weeping for her children and would not be
comforted, poignantly reminded them that
they could never be comforted for their lost
little ones buried outside in the sunny
churchyard. Henry, and Lilian, and Marion,
and the children all gazed up with admiring
affection at the beautiful young priest standing:
white-robed outside the chancel at the
eagle lectern, Henry thinking that the music
of Cyril's voice alone surpassed any chanted
cathedral service.

Often in after-years did Henry and Lilian
think of that sweet Sunday morning with
refreshment : the solemn beauty of the old
church, with its heavy Norman arches ; the
sunshine stealing in, mellow and soft, through
the south windows and singeing the snowy
frock of Grranfer, who sat just below the
chancel, and leant forward on his staff in an
attitude of rapt attention ; the innocent looks
of the choir-boys, amongst whom was Dicky
Stevens, fourth in descent from Granter, and

whom Lilian had delivered from the tyranny
of the rod ; and Mr. Maitland's reverend
aspect, as he bent his silvered head and
listened to Cyril's pure voice.

But the moment which lingered in his
heart's memory till his dying day was
that in which he knelt with Marion and
Lilian and the villagers at the altar, and
received the holy symbols from Cyril's own
consecrated hands. He never forgot Cyril's
pale, saint-like features and white-stole
form, the crimson from a martyr's robe in the
south chancel window staining in a long bar
the priest's breast and hands and the very
chalice he held.

I was so glad," Lilian said, when they
were walking home together, Marion having
stopped to speak to some one, "to see you
there, Henry, because Cyril is often troubled
about your daring speculations."
" Your father never fails to still my doubts,
Lilian," he replied. " There is that in his
plain, unpretending sermons, which carries
conviction straight into one's heart. Sermons,

as a rule, simply bore me ; but Mr.

Maitland's Well, you know, he always

was my beau ideal of a parish priest."

Lilian's face kindled. " You are the only
person who really appreciates my father,"
she replied. " Even Cyril does not quite
know what gifts he has buried in this tiny
rustic place, and willingly and consciously
buried."

I honour his intellect, but still more his
heart, which speaks not only in his studiously
plain sermons, but even more in his life.
Cyril could take no better model."

True ; yet we all think Cyril destined to
something higher," replied Lilian.

By the way, Henry," said Cyril at
luncheon, '' I took your overcoat by mistake
this morning. I hope it didn't put you out
much ; my things are all too small for you."

That fellow is always appropriating my
property, and I am too big to retaliate,"
growled Everard, who had forgotten all
about the tight overcoat of the morning.

'' Oh, I say, Cywil," broke in Lennie,

^' wasn't Ingram Swaynestone in a wage
with you for not preaching this morning !
He came to church on purpose, and he does
hate going to church in the winter, he says,
because the cold nips the girls' noses and
makes them look so ugly."

He doesn't mean that nonsense, Lennie,"
said Mr. Maitland, laughing gently. " He
pays his rector a fine compliment, to say the
least of it," he added.

Cyril, who was by no means making up
for his morning fast, looked as if he thought
Ingram was more likely to be interested in
the colour of girls' noses than the quality of
any sermons. Then he learnt how Ingram
had called with offers of guns and horses to
Everard and himself, and had been at play
with Winnie, who was now in dire disgrace
and condemned to go without pudding, inconsequence
of having made Ingram's nose
bleed.

Oh, really, mother ! " he exclaimed,
stroking the bright curls brushing his arms,
isn't that rather hard ? Winnie did not

mean it ; it might have been her nose. Do
sou think Ingram will go without pudding,
Win ? Let her off, mother. I never saw a
little girl behave better in church."

Whereupon Winnie was respited, after
many comments from her elders on her rough
ways and romping habits and constant
breakages, which, it appeared, were a source
of perennial disgrace to the little girl.

Cyril had very tender ways with children,
and was almost as sorry for hurt things as
Lilian. That very afternoon a child stumbled
and fell on the way to church, and Everard
saw him slip aside in his long cassock, and
pick up the howling, dust-covered urchin
with some merry, tender observation, wipe
away the tears and blood with his own
spotless handkerchief before Wax had time
to bring out a denunciation on the brat's
heedlessness, and comfort him finally with
pence, though the parson's bell had rung,
and Mrs. Wax had come to the end of her
voluntary on the harmonium, and begun
over again in despair.

The morning congregation had received
some additions, to wit, those lazy Sabbatarians
who kept their day of rest so literally as to
get up too late to go to church in the
morning, those mothers too fatigued by
performing the family toilettes to perform
their own, and those who cooked the Sunday
dinners and minded the babies, the majority
of which latter accompanied their parents to
afternoon service. It was pleasant, too, to
observe that Ingram Swaynestone's piety had
conquered his pain at the eclipse of feminine
beauty, and that he helped to swell the little
crowd.

When Cyril ascended the pulpit, he looked
round the dim church with an anxious,
searching gaze, and Lilian observed that his
eye rested with apprehension on the Lees'
pew, and he appeared relieved when he saw
Mrs. Lee standing there alone. Then he
glanced in the direction of the Swaynestone
servants' pew, where Ben Lee sat, glum and
downcast, and Judkins, with a haggard look,
held his hymn-book before his face. They

were singing " Hark, the herald angels,"
Job Stubbs and Dickie Stevens bringing out
the treble with a will, and the basses bearing
their parts manfully.

Cyril distinguished all the voices — those of
Lilian and Everard, Marion and the children,
Sir Lionel and his daughters, the Rectory
maids, the smock-frocks, Tom and Jim Hale,
Baines, the tailor, who was only an occasional
church-goer, and loved to air his bass occasionally
in orthodox ears — he heard even
Granter's own tremulous quaver, which had
been a tenor of local celebrity, and a crowd
of young memories rushed over him. He
clutched the edge of the pulpit, regardless of
the holly-wreath which encircled it, and
pricked his fingers, and, when the last notes
of " Herald angels " died away in the final
quaver of an old woman half a bar behind,
was silent for a few moments.

At last he recovered himself, and gave out
his text — '' Keep innocency, and take heed to
the thing that is right, for that shall bring a
man peace at the last."

He felt them all gazing up at him — Lennie
and Winnie, with their innocent eyes and
mouths wide open to hear " Cywil preach ; "
his mother, who seldom ventured to church ;
Farmer Long and his family ; the well-known
villagers ; Granter, with his head on one
side, like an old bird, the better to hear him ;
Ben Lee — yes, Ben Lee was looking ; his
father in the chancel was looking also.

Cyril turned pale ; Marion caught her
breath, but was soon quieted by the clear,
pure notes of the young preacher's voice.
He could not but pause, he said, before that
congregation, and question himself deeply
and sternly before he presumed to address
them. They had seen him grow up among
them. Many were his elders, had held him
in their arms, chidden the faults of his boyhood,
taught him, cared for him ; many had
been his playmates and companions, known
his weaknesses, shared, perchance, in his
escapades. How should he speak to them ?

Everard disapproved of these personal remarks
; and yet, when he heard the silver

tones of Cyril's voice, his easy flowing
sentences, and the delicacy of his allusions,
he could not hut he charmed. The fact was,
as he reflected, that Cyril could do what no
other man might, and still charm. His very
faults and weaknesses were, in a manner,
endearing.

He felt it, nevertheless, a great privilege,
he continued, to be placed there, and he
asked of their patience to hear him, for the
sake of his office. Then, referring to his
manuscript, he briefly touched upon the story
of the martyred innocents and its lessons ;
and not till then did the profound snore
of William Grove and other accustomed
sleepers arise. Every creature had kept
awake during the unaccustomed prologue,
and, indeed, many of the habitual sleepers
were still awake, considering it only fair to
Mr. Cyril. Then the preacher spoke of the
beauty of innocence, and his manner, hitherto
so quiet, changed, and became more and more
impassioned, till some of the sleepers woke
and gazed about them with dazed wonder,

as the tones of that clarion voice besought
them all to keep innocency, that pearl beyond
all price, that one costly treasure without
which there was no light in the summer
sun, nor any joy in youth and spring-time.
Then he painted the tortures of a guilty
conscience, the agony beyond all agonies,
with such power and passion, and such a
richness of poetic diction and picturesque
imagery, that many a man trembled, some
women sobbed, and poor Ben Lee uttered a
stifled groan.

Everard grew uncomfortable. He began
to fear some unseemly hysteric excitement
in the little congregation, and was distressed
to find Marion and Mrs. Maitland crying
without reserve. Lilian's eyes were moist,
but she did not cry ; she was pale with a
reflection of Cyril's white passion. Mr.
Maitland covered his face with his surplice.
He too was uneasy, and more affected than
he liked to acknowledge to himself; yet he
hoped that Alma's betrayer might be present
and have his heart touched. The dusk was

falling fast in the dim, deep-shadowed building
; two or three sparks of light glowed
among the white robes of the choir, and up
among the dark arches Cyril's face showed
haggard and agonized in the little isle of
light made by the two pale tapers on each
side of him in the darkness.

Long did the little congregation remember
that scene : the hush of attention, broken
only by an occasional sob from some woman —
for most of the sleepers were awake now,
and dimly conscious of the unaccustomed
passion breaking the drowsy air around
them — the great growing shadows in the
fast-darkening church ; the mass of awestruck
faces pale in the grey gloom ; the
rosy gleams of the scattered tapers on the
choristers' surplices ; and up above them, from
the heart of the mysterious darkness, the
one beautiful, impassioned face in the lonely
radiance, and the mighty musical voice pealing
forth the unutterable anguish of sin ; and
the light which subsequent events threw
upon it only rendered it the more impressive.

It is true, indeed," said the preacher,
suddenly easing the intolerable tension of his
passion, and speaking in calmer tones, " that
what a holy writer has called ' the princely
heart of innocence,' may be regained after
long anguish of penitence and prayer, but
the consequences of sin roll on in ever-growing
echoes, terrible with the thunder of
everlasting doom ; the contrite heart is utterly
broken, and the life for ever saddened and
marred. Innocence once lost, my brethren,
the old careless joy of youth never returns.
thou, whosoever thou be, man, woman,
or even child ; thou who hast once stained
thy soul with deadly sin, ' not poppy, nor
mandragora, nor all the drowsy syrups of the
world, shall ever medicine thee to that sweet
sleep which thou ow'dst yesterday.'

*' Yet despair not, beloved brethren," he
added, with flute-like softness, for his voice
had again risen in agonized intensity ; " there
is forgiveness and healing for all. But oh !
keep innocency, keep innocency ; guard and
treasure that inestimable, irrecoverable possession,

that pure perennial source of joyous
days and peaceful nights, and take heed, take
watchful heed, of the thing that is right. Keep
innocency, little children, sitting here in the
holy church this evening, beneath the eyes
of those who love and guard you — you whose
souls are yet fresh with the dew of baptism,
keep, oh, keep your innocency ! Keep it,
youths and children, who wear the chorister's
white robe ! Keep innocency, young men
and maidens, full of heart and hope ; keep
this one pearl, I pray you, for there is no
joy without it ! And you, men and women
of mature years, strong to labour and bowed
with cares and toils innumerable — you who,
in the hurry of life's hot noon, have scarce
time to think of heaven, with its white robes
and peace, yet see that you keep innocency
through all ! And you, standing amid the
long golden lights of life's evening, aged
men and women who wear the honoured
crown of white hairs, watch still, and see that
you guard your priceless treasure even to
the last. Keep innocency, I conjure you.

for that shall bring a man peace at the last !
Peace, peace," he repeated, with a yearning
intensity that culminated in a deep, hard
sob, " peace ! "

He paused, and there was dense silence for
some seconds, and Everard saw that the blue
brilliance of his eyes was blurred with tears ;
while Sir Lionel and Ingram experienced a
sense of profound relief in the hope that the
too-exciting sermon was at an end. The
congregation rose joyously to their feet,
eased of a strain that was becoming intolerable.


When Cyril had left the pulpit, his father
pronounced the benediction on the kneeling
crowd in his calm, sweet tones, so restful
after the storm and passion of the young
preacher's richly compassed voice. But the
blessing did not reach Cyril's distracted soul.
Taking advantage of the shadows when he
reached this place in the chancel, he glided
swiftly behind the pillars, like some hurt
spirit fleeing from the benison that would
heal it, till he reached the vestry, where he

threw himself in a chair behind a screen, and
covered his face. When Mr. Maitland in due
time followed the choir thither, he did not at
first observe the silent, ghostly figure in the
shadow ; and then becoming aware of him,
he left him to himself till the choristers were
gone, thinking that he was praying. But on
approaching nearer, he was startled to hear
strong sobs issue from the veiled figure.

My dear boy," he remonstrated, " this
will never do. Too much excitement is unwholesome
both for priest and people. Come,
master yourself, dear lad. You are unwell ;
this fasting is not wise. Henry was right."

Oh, father," sobbed Cyril, " it is not the
fasting! Oh, shut the door, and let us be
alone, and let me tell you all — all ! "

Come, come," said the gentle old man ;
calm yourself, and tell me whatever you
lilac later. At present we are both worn out,
and need change of thought. You have a
great gift, dear fellow, and I trust your
words have struck home to at least one
conscience "

VOL. I.

They have — oh, they have, indeed ! "
repeated Cyril, with increasing agitation ;

and that miserable conscience Oh,

father, father ! how can I tell you ? "

'hush! hush! This is hysteria, as
Everard predicted. Say no more ; I insist
upon your silence. Remember where weare!
Drink this water. Stay! I will call
Henry ; " and Mr. Maitland went quickly into
the church, where Everard was yet lingering
with Lilian, who always had various errands
connected with the parish to transact in the
porch, and beckoned him to the vestry.

Cyril did not resist his father's will anymore,
but sank back with a moan, half of
anguish, half of relief, and listened meekly to
the rough kindliness of Everard and the
£gentle remonstrances of his father.

This is a pretty scene, Mr. Maitland,"
observed Everard, on entering the vestry.
■ " 111 ? Of course he is ill, after exciting
himself on an empty stomach ! The end of
such goings-on as these, my friend, is Bedlam.
Take this brandy, and then go quietly home

and get a good sleep, and let us have no more
of this nonsense, for goodness sake."

So Cyril did as they bid him, and held his
peace. Had he but acted on his heart's
impulse, and spoken out then as he wished,
he would have produced sorrow and dismay
indeed, but the long, lingering tragedy which
was to involve so many lives would have
been for ever averted.

Once, perhaps, in each crisis of our lives,
our guardian angel stands before us with his
hands full of golden opportunity, which, if
we grasp, it is well with us ; but woe to us
if we turn our backs sullenly on our gentle
visitor, and scorn his celestial gift ! Never
again is the gracious treasure offered, and the
favourable moment returns no more.

CHAPTER Viii.

** Ay, you med all mark my words ! " said
Granter, looking solemnly round from under
the shadow of his bushy grey eyebrows.
I've a said it, and I'll say it agen — ay, that
I 'fool, let they go agen it as may ! You med
all mark my words, I say. Queen Yictoree'll
make he a bishop adore she's done wi' 'un."

Ay," chorused the listening group, who
were standing around the village oracle in
the churchyard, looking phantom-like in the
pale blending of sunset and moonrise ; and
then there was a thoughtful pause, during
which Granter's shrewd grey eyes scrutinized
each face with an air of challenge.

Terrible vine preaching sure-ly," observed
Hale, the wheelwright.

Yine ! you med well say that," rejoined

Granter, sternly. " I tell 'ee all, there never
was preaching that vine in all Malbourne
lands adore ! Ay, I've a said it, and I'll say
it agen ! "

'• Made me sweat, 'ee did," observed Straun,
the blacksmith, whose Sunday appearance
was a caricature on his burly working-day
presentment ; for broadcloth of Baines's rough
fashioning now hid the magnificent muscular
arms and bare neck ; a tall hat, too small in
the head, replaced the careless, smoke-browned
cap of every day ; and the washing and
shaving to which his face had been subjected
gave it an almost unnatural pallor.

Ye need well sweat, Jarge Straun, when
you thinks on yer sins," reflected Granter,
piously.

'Twas terrible vine ; but darned if I
knows what 'twas all about ! " said William
Grove, scratching his curly head with some
perplexity.

Ah ! Mr. Cyril, he have a dale too much
learning for the likes o' you, Willum," returned
Granter, graciously condescending to

William's weaker intellect ; " let he alone
for that. Why, Lard love 'ee, Willum, /
couldn't make out modern a quarter on't
myself; that I couldn't, I tell 'ee ! A vasto'
learning in that lad's head."

Ay, and shine on it was poetry ; I yard
the jingle of it," said sailor Jim.

Master, now," continued Granter, settling
himself more comfortably against a tombstone,
and leaning forward on his stick — " Lard 'a
massey, any wool med understand he ! He
spaces in his discourses jest as though he
was a sitting in front of vire atop of a
cricket, and a saying, ' Well, Granter, and
how be the parties a-coming up ? ' or, ' Granter,
think o' yer sins adore you blames other
vol.' Ay, that's how he spaces, bless 'un !
He don't know no better, he don't. Can't
spake no grander than the Lard have give
'un grace to."

"Master's a good man," said Straun,
defiantly. " Heave a done his duty by we
this thirty year."

Ay, he's well enough, master is," continued

Granter, in a tolerant manner ; "I
never had no vault to vint wi' he, bless 'un !
A vine family heave had, too ! Heave a done
so well as he could ; but a never was no
praicber to spake on, I tell 'ee."

Terrible pretty what Mr. Cyril said about
preaching to them as snowed him a boy,"
said Tom Hale. " Them esskypades, now,"
he added fondly, as he caressed his moustache
and struck one of his martial attitudes.

'* What's a esskypade, Granter ? " inquired
a smock-frock.

"A esskypade," returned Granter, slowly
and thoughtfully — " a esskypade, zo to say,
is, in a way o' speaking, what you med call a
set-to — a cart of a scrimmage like ; " and he
fixed his glittering eye fiercely, yet half
doubtfully, on Tom Hale's face, as much as
to challenge him to deny it.

Just so," responded Tom. '' I said to
myself, I said, ' Mr. Cyril is thinking of the
set-to we had together in father's yard that
Saturday afternoon ; that's what he means
by his esskypades.' "

" Ay, and you licked him well," added Jim,
eagerly ; " that was summit like a fight, Tom."
" Master Cyril had to be carried home, and
kep' his bed for a week ; and Tom, he couldn't
see out of his eyes next day," commented
the elder Hale, with pride in his brother's
prowess.

Ay, you dressed 'un, sure enough, Tom,"
commented Granter, graciously.

*'He took a deal of licking, and hit out
like a man," said the modest warrior, who
loved Cyril with the profound affection inspired
only by a vanquished foe.

Tom had fought sterner battles since. He
had been through the Indian Mutiny campaign,
and known the grim realities of
Lucknow ; but his heart still glowed, as he
saw before him, in his mind's eye, the
prostrate form of Cyril on the grass among
the timber of the wheelwright's yard — poor,
vanquished Cyril, slighter, though older, than
himself, with his little shirt torn and bloodstained
— and heard the applause of his comrades
gathered to watch the fray.

Well, I minds n, a little lad, chivying
Granter's would sow round meadow," struck
in Stevens, who had now completed all his
duties in the church and locked the door,
the great key of which he carried in his
hand.

A vine, peart buoy as ever I zee," reflected
Granter, " and wanted zo much stick
as any on 'em. I've a smacked 'un myself,"
added Granter, with great dignity and importance
; '' ay, and I smacked 'un well, I
did ! " repeated Granter, with relish.

You was allays a good 'un to smack,
Granter," observed his grandson, the clerk,
with tender reminiscences of Granter *s operation
on his own person.

Whatever I done, I went through wi' 't,"
returned the old man, complacently digesting
this tribute to his prowess. " Ay, I've a
smacked 'un myself, and I smacked 'un w ell,
I did," he repeated, with ever-growing importance.


Come along home ! " said Stevens, who
was waiting to lock the loch-gate. " You

ain't old enough to bide in churchyard for
good, Granter."

Ah ! I ain't a-going underground this
ten year yet," returned Granter, shaking his
head, and slowly rising from his tombstone
in the blue moonlight, his breath showing
smokelike on the keen air, and his wrinkled
hands numbed doubly by age and the winter
night. " I saint a-going yet," he muttered
to himself; while the group broke up in slow,
rustic fashion, and they all trudged off, Tom
leading the way, erect and martial, airily
swinging his little cane, and stepping with a
firm, even stride ; Jim rolling along with a
wide, swaying gait, as if there were an
earthquake, and the churchyard ground were
heaving and surging around him ; the rustics
tramping heavily after, with a stolid, forceful
step, as if the ground beneath them were a
stubborn enemy, to be mastered only by continued
blows ; and soon the grey church
stood silent and deserted in the frosty moonlight,
till the clock in the belfry pealed out
five mellow strokes above the quiet, unheeding
dead.

At that hour Ben Lee was on the point of
leaving his stables and going home to tea.
Judkins and he were kindling their pipes at
the harness-room fire, each with a face of
sullen gloom.

'^ It wasn't so much what he said," observed
Judkins ; " 'twas how he said it made them
all cry. He seemed kind of heart-broken
about it, as though somebody belonging to
him, some friend like, had done wrong."

Do you think he was thinking of my
poor girl ? " asked Ben, quickly ; and Judkins
nodded assent.

He always had a kind heart, had Mr.
Cyril, and he thought a deal of Alma," continued
Lee ; " lent her good books and that."

"There was one in the church as wasn't
upset, and looked as quiet as a whetstone all
through — that damned doctor ! " said the
young man, fiercely.

Dr. Everard ? You don't think,
Charles ? "

Haven't T seen him walking in the wood
with her ? " he interrupted, with imprecations.

" Why did he come sneaking into
your house, doctoring your wife last spring,
day after day without fail, and always some-think
to say to Alma afterwards in another
room ? Answer me that, Ben Lee ! "

The man was half stunned. " I'd break
every bone in his cursed body," he burst out,
purple with passion, " if I thought that !
And the good he done my wife, too, and I
that blind ! "

Blind you were, Ben Lee, and blind was
everybody else. But I watched. I've seen
them shake hands at the gate, and she giving
of him flowers, damn him ! I've seen them
in the wood there, standing together, and he
showing of her things through that glass of
his that makes things bigger than they ought
to be. Wait till I catch him, Ben, that's all !
And he sitting through that sermon, and
everybody crying, and even Mr. Ingram
blowing his nose ; he sitting as scornful and
cold as any devil. There's no conscience in
the likes of him ! "

Charles," cried Ben, suddenly clutching

the yoimg man's arm with a grip that
brought the blood to his face, " I'll kill
him ! "

Ben was purple, and quivering from head
to foot, and Judkins's passionate anger sank
within him at the sight.

Hush, Ben, hush ! " he said ; " don't you
do nothing rash. Killing's murder, Ben.
And that will do her no good. No, no ; I'll
thrash him, and you shall thrash him, and he
shall be brought to book, sure enough ; that's
only justice."

Poor Ben dashed away his pipe, covered
his face with his coat-cuff, and broke out
crying.

Lord ha' mercy ! " cried the young groom,
crying himself. 'you do take on, Ben.
Come, come, cheer up, man. Better days'll
come, and you may see her married and
happy yet. Come on home, Ben, come."

And he drew him out into the solemn quiet
of the winter moonlight, and took him across
the park and the meadow, and wished him
good night at the door of his sorrowful home.

And mind you, Ben, don't you be hard on
lier," he said at parting.

If Ben comes across him," he muttered to
himself, as he strolled moodily up and down
the high-road, whence he could see the
Temple white in the moonlight, with its one
window faintly aglow, ^' he'll do for him.
Ben's hot, and he'll do for him, as sure as
eggs is eggs." Then he vowed to himself
that he would wreak his own revenge first,
and, if possible, save Ben from yielding
to his passionate nature. " I'll track him
down like a hound ! " he muttered, striking
fiercely at the frosted hedgerow with the
light whip he carried.

Everard, in the mean time, was serenely
happy in the drawing-room at Malbourne,
unconscious that he had an enemy in the
world, much less that men were scheming
against his honour and his life. Nay, he did
not even dream that he had so much as a
detractor ; he loved his fellows, and was at
peace with mankind.

The family were gathered in the drawing-room

in pleasant Sunday idleness, save Mr.
Maitland, who was visiting a sick parishioner.
Cyril and Marion were side by side on a
remote sofa, dreamily happy in each other's
presence ; Henry had mounted his microscope
within reach of Mrs. Maitland, and was displaying
its wonders in calm happiness for
her and Lilian. Mark Antony, after careful
and minute inspection of every detail of the
strange apparatus, had decided that it was
harmless, though frivolous, and expressed this
decision by deep contented purrs and an
adjournment to Cyril's knee, where he saw a
prospect of long continuation and peace ; and
Lennie and Winnie occupied the hearthrug,
and divided their attention between the dogs
and the microscope.

When Lilian bent over the tube, with
the strong light of the lamp touching her
animated face, and her dress rustling against
him, Henry thought he had never been so
happy in his life. Now and again some
little unexpected incident, some glance or
tone, revealed to him the delicious truth

that they loved each other. No one else
suspected that any change had come over
the fraternal relations of a lifetime ; they
possessed this young happiness as a secret,
sacred treasure, and feared the moment when
it must be revealed to the world. Everard
was loth to part even with the sweet anguish
of doubt which crossed his heaven from time
to time ; it was so delightful to watch and
question every word and glance and gesture
of Lilian's, and play upon them a perpetual
daisy game — " She loves me, she loves me
not, she loves me." Some deep instinct told
him that never in all his life would he again
taste such happiness as this blessed dawn of love
yielded him. As for Lilian, her manner took
a little shyness occasionally in the strange fear
which is the shadow of unspeakable joy.

Soon the domestic quiet was broken, but
not troubled, by the irruption of Stanley and
Lyster Garrett, the two sons of Northover,
who liked to lounge away a Sunday evening
at the Eectory, and there was much discussion
of the entertainment to be given the next

night to the villagers ; and then the Garrett
girls were brought across the park to assist
in the little parliament, and kept to share
the informal supper which was a Sunday
feature at Malbourne.

During supper a note arrived from Sandstone,
bidding Everard come to luncheon next
day to meet the great Professor Hamlin,
who had seen some paper of Everard's in a
scientific journal, and expressed a wish to seethe
writer. This was a great pleasure to
Everard, and a little responsive light in
Lilian's face told him that she realized what
making this man's acquaintance meant to
him.

"The luncheon was a great success,"
Everard observed, on his return to the Rectory
in the afternoon next day. " The great man
was most gracious ; he did me the honour of
contradicting me nine times. Sir Lionel, in
his gentle way, was a little horrified at his
lion's roar, but saw that I was specially
honoured in being selected for the royal
beast's refection."

VOL. I. p

He went on to tell how the great writer,
who lived in the neighbourhood, and was
entertaining the professor, had been present,
and had been less overbearing in manner
and milder in language than usual. His hair
had, however, evidently not been brushed.
He was questioning Sir Lionel about Cyril's
sermon, in which he was interested, since
he had a slight acquaintance with the
Maitlandss, and had already detected CyriFs
bright parts. He heard of the sermon
through his brother, who had been taking a
country stroll the previous afternoon, and had
sauntered unnoticed into the church, just at
the beginning of the sermon, and returned
home with the intelligence that a young
genius had arisen in the neighbourhood, with
a voice, manner, and power unequalled in his
experience.

Ingram Swaynestone, who had accompanied
Everard back to Malbourne, wondered that
Cyril should stare abstractedly at the fire
during this recital, as if it had no interest
for him, and made some remark to him expressive

of his own personal appreciation of
the sermon.

My good fellow," returned Cyril, facing
about, and speaking in his easy genial
fashion, " do you suppose that I don't know
that I have the ' gift of the gab,' as Everard
calls it ? I don't know that one need be proud
of it, any more than of having one's nose
placed in the middle of one's face, instead of
all askew, as befalls some people ; and yet
the devil is quite active enough in persuading
me to be vain of it without my
friends' assistance."

It strikes me, Cyril," broke in Everard,
that you and the devil are on very confidential
terms. I should have thought an
innocent young parson like you the very last
person the arch-enemy would select to 
with."

"As if the Premier were to hold confidential
chats with the late Nana Sahib," added Ingram,
laughing.

Cyril flushed hotly, and then said, with a
quietly dignified air, of which he was master

when lie wished to rebuke gently, " You are
light-hearted, Henry ; your spirits run away
with you."

Upon which Everard could not resist retorting,
with unabashed gravity, " I trust
that yours will not run away with you, Cyril,
since they are of such a questionable complexion."


Come, you idle people," broke in Lilian ;
it is time to go to the schoolroom. Are
you going to be a waiter, Ingram ? There is
no compulsion, remember. Henry and the
two Garretts are enlisted. Keppel Everard
is our Ganymede; Marion and I are Hebe.
In plain English, we serve the tea, and Keppel
the beer."

Since all the posts are filled, I will engage
myself as general slavey," said the good-tempered
Ingram, rising and following Lilian
to the schoolroom, where a substantial meal
was spread, and Mr. Maitland, with his curate,
Mr. Marvyn, was already receiving his
humble guests, who, unlike the guests of
more fashionable entertainments, liked to

arrive before instead of after the appointed
hour, and in this case came long before all
the candles were lighted, so that they depended
chiefly on firelight for illumination.

Soon, however, the tables were full, men,
women, and children sitting before a
bounteous supply of roast beef and potatoes,
while the air became oppressive with the
scent of crushed evergreens an't steaming
food. Mr. Maitland and his curate had one
table ; Cyril and the Eev. George Everard
presided at another ; and the children's special
board rejoiced in Lennie and Winnie as host
and hostess.

Profound gravity prevailed, broken only
by an occasional feminine titter or childish
laugh, though it was evident, from the expression
of Granter's face when he came to
the end of his first plate of beef, that he
contemplated making a remark probably of a
jocular nature. All the mirth of the feast
seemed to be concentrated in the faces of the
Hebe and Ganymede, who flew about the
room with the greatest enjoyment, and took

care that neither plate nor cup was empty.
The two most assiduous waiters where Ingram
Swaynestone and Everard, both of whom
appeared to have the gift of ubiquity, and
carved with a recklessness and rapidity that
astonished all beholders. It was not until
the pudding was finished, and grace had been
sung by the choir, that some symptoms of
mirth and enjoyment began to break out
among the rustic revellers, and Mr. Maitland
laughed with his usual heartiness at Granter's
annual joke, a fine antique one, with the
mellowness of fifty years upon it.

It was pleasant, while the tables were being
cleared, and the people were grouped about
the room, to see Cyril move among his old
friends, saying to each exactly the right
thing, in the manner exactly fitted to charm
each ; going up to Tom Hale, and laying
his hand affectionately on his stalwart, red-coated
shoulder, and calling the pleased flush
into his face by the manner in which he
alluded to old times, especially the immortal
battle.

I should be sorry to fight you now,
Tom," he added ; "or Jim either. It is well
that my calling makes me a man of peace,
while yours make you men of war."

Yes, Mr. Cyril, it is all very well to be
strong," replied Tom ; " but what's that to a
head-piece like yours ? "

They would rather have a smile from
Cyril than a whole dinner from the rest of
us," Everard observed to Lilian, as he paused
a moment in his toilsome occupation of rearranging
the room. " Just look at George,"
he added, pointing to his reverend brother,
who was standing disconsolate and dejected
in the quietest corner he could find ; " he is
afraid that people are enjoying themselves.
He would give his head to be allowed to
improve the occasion."

He implored my father to substitute
hymns and clerical addresses for our frivolous
little entertainment," replied Lilian. " He
asked him how he would answer for having
let slip such a precious opportunity of preaching
the Gospel."

Such a gospel —

' The dismal news I tell,

How our friends are all embarking
For the fiery port of hell.'

Poor old George! What a dreary phantasmagoria
life must seem to him ! "

Happily, he doesn't really believe his
creed. He asked Granter just now if he knew
that he was standing on the brink of the
grave. Granter replied, ' Ay, I've ben a-
standing there this ninety year and more, and
I hasn't, zo to say, tired on't yet.' "

Everard went up to his brother, and
accosted him. " I hope " there is nothing
wrong, George," he said ; " you look as if
something had disagreed with you."

Thank you, Henry," he replied, " my
health is, under Providence, excellent ; but I
grieve for the souls of these poor creatures.
I have ascertained for a fact that Maitland
has caused beer and tobacco to be placed in a
class-room for the men. Why, oh, why will
he not lead them to the only true source of
comfort ? "

The diners were now joined by other guests
of a higher grade: Farmer Long and his
family ; other farmers ; a fresh contingent of
Garretts ; and last, though not by any means
least, Sir Lionel Swaynestone and his two
pretty daughters.

Thereupon the choir, assisted by amateurs,
struck up, " My love is like a red, red rose,"
and the concert began. Wax executed a solo
on the clarion of such fearful difficulty
that Everard trembled lest he should break
a blood-vessel; and everybody, including
Mrs. Ajax, who coursed frantically after his
rapid runs and 'flourishes on the piano,
breathed an inward thanksgiving when he
had finished. A piano duet between Miss
Swaynestone and Miss Garrett followed, and
was not the less tumultuously applauded
because the superior swiftness of Miss
Garrett's fingers landed her at the finish
two bars ahead of Miss Swaynestone, who
played on to the end with unruffled composure.
Nobody had taken the slightest notice
of any of these performances, save Wax's,

which alarmed the nervous ; but now a
change took place. Cyril led Lilian on to
the platform, and Marion's piano prelude
was drowned by the sound of heavy feet
plunging in from the smoking-room, and
everybody listened attentively for what was
a really delicate entertainment for the ear —
a vocal duet between the twins. Even Sir
Lionel left his stately calm to encore the
simple melody, while Granter did serious
damage to the school floor with his stick. It
was not that the brother and sister sang: with
unusual skill, or that their voices were remarkably
good, taken apart ; the charm lay
in the peculiar sweetness of tone resulting
from the exact blending of the two.

Ingram Swaynestone grumbled in a good-tempered
way at having to read after this
performance, and though he read a bit of
Dickens with great spirit and humour, Everard
observed that the audience only listened and
applauded as a matter of duty. Ethel Sandstone
was an accomplished singer, but her
voice failed to please the rustic ear ; while the

choir glees and other amateur music were
received as a matter of course. But when
Cyril once more stood on the platform, and
began in his rich, pure voice, " There was a
sound of revelry by night," Everard was
startled at the sudden hush of attention that
fell on the audience, and surprised at the
richness of harmony in the well-known
stanzas. When Cyril repeated the line, " But
hush ! hark ! a deep sound strikes like a rising
knell ! " the rustics started and looked over
their shoulders in dismay, and one susceptible
matron uttered a faint shriek. '' Did ye not
hear it ? " continued the reciter, in such thrilling
tones that Mrs. Stevens, meeting the
light of Cyril's blue eyes, took the question
personally, and replied wildly in the negative,
to the general consternation. Having
brought this to a conclusion in such a manner
that his unlettered audience actually saw the
ball-room scene, " the cheeks all pale," the
'' trembling of distress," and actually heard
the sounds of approaching doom break in
upon the brilliant revelry, and witnessed the

hurried departure of the troops to the terrible
field destined to be fertilized with " red rain,"
Cyril paused, to let the tumultuous encores
subside ; and, at last, when silence ensued,
began with a plaintive sweetness, chat was in
strong contrast to the dramatic force and fire
of the " Eve of Waterloo "—

'"I remember, I remember,
The house where I was born.
The little window where the sun
Came peeping in at morn.
He never came a wink too soon,
Or brought too long a day ;
But now ' "

Here Cyril paused, with a deep sigh.

' I often wish the night
Had borne my breath away.' "

To Everard's intense surprise, he not only
saw tears all round him, but found a sensation
of intense sorrow and longing for the past
stealing over himself, while the pathos of
Cyril's voice seemed to break his heart. He
saw, as they all saw, Malbourne Rectory, and
Cyril, a boy once more — gentle, happy, and

full of sweet, innocent fancies ; and when the
latter went on, in his quiet voice, so full of
melodious heart-break —

' And where my brother set
Time laburniTin on his birthday :
That tree is living yet,' "

something rushed up into Everard's throat
and half choked him. He knew that Cyril
was thinking of a rose-tree he had planted
on a far-off birthday.

' But now 'tis little joy,' "

said Cyril, with a voice full of tears —

' To know I'm farther ois from heaven
Than when I was a boy.' "

There was no applause to this ; complete
and tearful silence reigned when he finished
and stepped quietly down among his friends,
where Sir Lionel gently rebuked him for
playing so cruelly on their feelings, and
added; " As I said to Ingram yesterday,
such a voice and manner would sway the
House ; " and every one was relieved when
the choir struck up, " All among the Barley."

Lilian was among the few who did not
give way to tears during the recital of Hood's
pathetic little poem, though Everard, who
hovered near her all the evening, observed
that her large, soft grey eyes were dewy
wet, as was their wont when she was moved,
and her face reflected all the changes on her
brother's. It was not easy to get very close
to Lilian, because she was fenced in, as it
were, by a little ring of children, who clung
to her skirts, and laid their cheeks against her
beautiful, slender hands, and were perfectly
happy with the privilege of touching her.

'' I do not think," she said, while returning
to the Rectory through the frosty moonlight
with Everard, " that Cyril is farther off from
heaven than when he was a boy. Licked, it
seems to me that one must grow nearer to it
with every day of life, unless one deliberately
turns from it."

You are speaking from your own experience,"
replied Henry. " Men are different.
To go through early manhood is to be drawn
over a morass of temptation, into which, with

the best intentions, most men sink occasionally."


"Not men like Cyril, Henry. He is so
slightly weighted with flesh that he would
skim dry footed over the most quaking quagmire.
I know every thought in Cyril's
heart."

Everard was half inclined to endorse this
opinion of Cyril. He recognized in his
friend's character a certain feminine element,
that ewing weibliche which Goethe pronounces
the saving ingredient in human nature. The
protecting tenderness with which he loved
the bright, gentle boy, two years his junior
and less robust than himself, still lived in his
deep affection for the pious and intellectual
young priest. Cyril's feelings were sacred to
him as a woman's ; he feared to sully their
delicate bloom by harsh allusions to the bare
facts of life. He was one of the twins, both
of whom were objects of his lifelong tenderness.
And Cyril had his moods, like a woman
a peculiarity not without fascination for
Everard's more thoroughly masculine mind.

A soft mood was on Cyril that night. He
knocked at Everard's door after every one
had retired for the night, and drew a chair to
his side by the fire, before which the doctor
was smoking, and, investing himself in one
of Everard's coats, lighted a pipe of his own.

The coolness with which the fellow takes
my coats ! " growled Everard.

'^ It is no matter if your coats smell of
tobacco," replied Cyril, tranquilly ; " I smoke
so seldom that I have no smoking-coats. Tonight
I am restless."

Why so pale and wan, fond lover ? "
laughed Everard. " Because Marion is gone
back to Woodlands for two days, I suppose."

You may laugh, Henry, but I feel more
than lost without her. I am helpless,
separated from the best influence of my life."

You are a slave to your feelings ; learn
to master them."

"It is true," replied Cyril. ^' You are the
best and wisest friend ever man had. I never
regretted doing anything you advised. I
shall always be grateful to you for making

me read up for mathematical honours. I
needed that discipline to steady me. I have
never valued you as you deserve ; only now
and again it flashes upon me that what I take
for granted is of superior worth. How selfish
I was about letting Marion join you in the
Mediterranean ! You little dream how I
suffered for that. Well, without you, Marion
and I would have been parted for ever."

Without Lilian." •

You and Lilian together. How selfish
and weak I was ! and the harm that came
from it ! "

Oh, come ! It's all right now ; a forgotten
story.

There are things that can never be forgotten,"
sighed Cyril, with the pathetic
intonation that had broken people's hearts in
the evening. " To give way to a sin, only
one sin, is like letting a little water through a
d^^ke. A child may begin it, but once begun,
the terrible consequences sweep endlessly on,
a very flood of iniquity. I suppose there is
nothing which has the power of multiplying

VOL. I. Q

itself like sin. One hideous consequence
begets a hundred more hideous," continued
Cyril, staring moodily at the fire, while his
pipe lay extinct and neglected by his side.

I see no pulpit, your reverence," said
Everard, who was puffing away with quiet
enjoyment.

Cyril turned with one of his sudden changes,
and flashed a mirthful glance of his strange
blue eyes on his friend, and, replenishing his
pipe from the tobacco which Keppel had
brought for Everard on his return from his
last voyage, broke into a strain of gay affectionate
chat, full of a thousand reminiscences
of the school-days they passed together under
Mr. Marvyn's care in the quiet village.

What a fellow you were ! " exclaimed
Cyril, with enthusiasm, after recalling a
certain story of a Sevres vase ; and, though
Everard only grunted, he looked at the
graceful, animated figure before him with an
affectionate adoration that made him feel it
would be a pleasure to die for such a man.
I was afraid when I smashed the vase,"

continued Cyril, " and but for you should
have hidden it. I never shall forget seeing
you walk up to Lady Swaynestone and tell
her that we had run up against the vase and
broken it. I felt such a sneak ; I had done
it, and you took the blame on yourself, and
got the punishment. She said no word, but
delivered you such a box on the ear as made
mine tingle, and sent you staggering across
the room. Then her anger found words, and
you bore it all."

I never knew a ruder or more ill-bred
woman," said Everard.

I suppose you got over the box on the
ear in an hour or two," continued Cyril ;
'•' but I did not. I was miserable for days,
hating myself, and yet too frightened to tell
the truth."

Everard here produced a yawn of cavernous
intensity, and dropped his pipe in sheer
drowsiness ; but Maitland seemed more alert
than ever, and rose in his restlessness and
looked out of the window on the dark vault
of shimmering stars.

The night wanes," he said ; " one day
more, and the weary old year will be done —
only one day."

Ungrateful fellow ! " said Everard, stretching
himself till he seemed gigantic ; " such
a good old year. I shall be sorry to say
good-bye to him, for my part."

Cyril dropped the curtain and turned to
the fire, his features all alight. " Let us look
forward," he said, " to the rosy future.
Welcome to sixty-three, Harry ; it is full of
promise for us both ! Good night, dear lad,
and Grod bless you ! "

And, with a warm hand-clasp, he took his
leave, but turned again, lingering, irresolute ;
and then, with another warm hand-clasp and
blessing, left his drowsy friend to his slumbers,
ju'fet as the church clock was striking three.

CHAPTER IX.

The last day of the year dawned bright and
cloudless, a very prince and pearl of winter
days, and Everard's heart bounded within him
as he looked out on the ruddy morning, and
felt it a joy merely to live.

I shall long remember sixty-two," he
thought ; "it has been a good year, and today
will crown and complete the whole. Today
I will make sure of my fate."

The wine of life never before had the
sparkle and effervescence of that morning ; it
was almost too much for a sober mind. Had
Everard been superstitious, or even introspective,
he would have presaged disaster at hand.
Instead of which, he rejoiced in his youth,
and felt as if his body were turned to air, ashe

sprang down the staircase and into the
sunny breakfast-room.

Mr. Maitland was late that morning, and
Cyril read the simple household prayers.
Everard loved this sweet custom of family
prayer, remiss as he' often was in assisting
personally at it ; it seemed so fit and harmonious
for that holy incense to ascend from
the altar of the innocent country home, and
to-day it acquired a sort of pathos from the
youth and grace of the reader. The scene
lived long in his mind, irradiated by a sweet
light of peace and holiness : the kneeling
children and Lilian, the sunshine touching
their hair ; the bowed heads of the maids ; the
dignified bearing of the reader ; the music
of his voice — a voice soft now, and soothing
as the murmur of the brook beneath the
trees, with none of the tragic tones they
knew so well. Just as Cyril was about to
pronounce the closing benediction, Mr. Malt-land,
thinking the prayers done, entered, and,
seeing how they were employed, dropped on
his knees in time to receive the lad's blessing.

The sight of that grey head, bent thus before
the young priest's benison, touched Everard
profoundly, and he felt humbled to think of
his own world-stained soul by the side of
these spotless creatures — priests and women
and children.

Lead us not into temptation," said Cyril's
pure, rich voice, chorused by the innocent
trebles and Everard's own faltering bass.

What temptation could possibly befall those
guileless beings that day ? What harsh dissonance
could ever mar the music of those
tuneful lives ? he wondered. And he was
glad that his own faltering petition had gone
up to Heaven with those of hearts so pure,
though even he could scarcely fall into
temptation in that sweet spot, he thought.

Cyril announced his intention of walking
into Oldport that bright morning, and Lilian,
of course, was to go part of the way with
him. Everard had been asked to shoot over
some of the Swaynestone covers, and rather
surprised Cyril, who knew that his friend
liked sport, by saying that he had declined

the shooting-party, and wanted to join the
pedestrians.

You had far better shoot, Henry," he
said ; *' a mere walk is a stupid thing for
you. You have had no amusement whatever
since you have been here."

To-morrow we plunge into a vortex of
dissipation," said Everard. " Will you give
me the first dance, Lilian ? By the way, I
suppose his reverence has given up these
frivolities."

Oh, I shall dance at Woodlands tomorrow,"
replied Cyril. "Just two square
dances with Marion, and then, I suppose,
farewell to such delights."

I cannot say that I like to see a clergyman
dancing," observed his father, " though
I danced myself till I was forty, and should
enjoy a turn with the young people even now."

Then, let us have a quiet carpet-dance
while the boys are here," said Lilian; "just the
Swaynestones and Garretts and Marion, and
father shall dance with each of us in turn."

Oh yes!" cried Everard; and Cyril chimed

in with great animation, " Just one more
fling for me ; " and Mr. Maitland went off
laughing, and saying he had nothing to do
with it — they must ask their mother, and
Lennie and Winnie jumped for joy, and announced
that they should not go to bed
before their elders, and the little fete was
regarded as a pleasant certainty.

Cyril kept them waiting some minutes
after the appointed time for starting. He had
important letters to write, he said ; and when
at last he appeared, his face was full of care
and perplexity. In the mean time, Lilian and
Everard were very happy on the sunny lawn
together, visiting the invalid donkey and
other animals, and wandering about their old
playground, past the spot where the twins
used to play at Robinson Crusoe, and where
Everard helped them build a hut, and recalling
a thousand pleasant memories of their
childish labours and sports. There was hoarfrost
on the delicate branches of the leafless
trees, and the sunshine was broken into a
thousand jewel-like radiance by the little

sharp facets of the ice-crystals. There was an
unwonted sparkle also in Lilian's eyes, and
a deeper glow on her cheeks than usual. The
air was like wine.

• The blacksmith was clinking merrily at his
glowing forge as they passed along the road,
and his blithe music carried far in the still
air. Granter was sunning himself outside,
according to custom, ready for a chat with
anybody, and commanding from his position
a view of all the approaches to the village.
Hale, the wheelwright, was there, getting
some ironwork done, and turned with Granter
to look after the trio.

-Ay," observed the latter, shaking his
head wisely, " a viner pair than they twins
o' our you never see, John Hale, so well
matched they be as Sir Lionel's bays."

A pretty pair," replied the wheelwright ;
but give me the doctor. There's muscle
and build ! "

Ay," echoed Straun, between the rhythmic
hammer-strokes ; "a man like he's a credit
to his vittles."

The young doctor's appearance certainly
justified this observation, and his walk and
bearing fully set off the robust manliness of
his athletic frame, which was further enhanced
by contrast with Cyril's slender grace.
The friends were of similar height, but
Henry's shoulders were higher, and made
him look taller ; his chest and back were far
broader than Cyril's, and his well-balanced
limbs were hard with muscle. The suit of
grey which he wore gave him breadth, and
displayed his form more fully than did Cyril's
black broadcloth of severe clerical cut, which
had, moreover, the well-known effect of
lessening the outlines of the figure. The
delicate glow which the sparkling air had
called into Cyril's worn cheek was very
different from the firm hue of health in
Henry's honest face ; and the fearless, frank
gaze of his bright brown eyes, and the light
brown moustache, looking golden in the sunshine,
gave him an older look than Cyril's
clean-shaven features wore.

Hale observed to Granter that whoever

attacked the doctor on a dark night would
find him an ugly customer, which Grranfer
admitted, adding that Cyril's strength all went
to brain-power, in which he was supreme.
Lilian also observed Henry's athletic appearance
in contrast with her brother's slight
build, and then she remembered how the
friends but the day before had been playing
with the children in the hall, and the fragile-looking
Cyril had given his muscular friend
a blow so clean and straight and well-planted
that the doctor had gone down like a ninepin
before it, to the great amusement of the
children and satisfaction of Everard.

Farmer Long was driving into Oldport in
his gig, and there beside him sat Mr. Marvyn,
charmed to see his three pupils together.
I shall not see you again, Henry," he said
regretfully, " unless you stay over Sunday.
I only came back for the entertainment
yesterday. I have a parson's week to finish.
Cyril I shall see again." And so they parted
with regret, since Everard was greatly
attached to his old tutor, who had encouraged

and developed his taste for natural science,
and upheld him in his choice of a profession.
And I wanted to tell old Marvyn about my
germ theory," Everard said, as the gig disappeared.


You will be able to tell the whole world
soon," replied Lilian, to whom the theory
had been confided and explained that very
morning.

Not yet," said Everard ; " it takes years
of patient study and experiment to verify a
scientific theory."

Old Hal always was a patient fellow,"
Cyril observed. " Do you remember the rows
about his dissections in his bedroom, Lill ? "

Lilian replied that she remembered the
odours, and they all laughed over the old
schoolroom jokes and catastrophes, and were
very happy as they climbed the hillside by
a field-path, leaving the road below them.
Afterwards Everard remembered the rare and
affectionate expression, " Old Hal." And now
in the bright sunshine he was pleased to see
Cyril so like his old self, careless, cordial.

and light-hearted, all the asceticism and sadness
put away ; ambition, toil, and care completely
forgotten. He knew that Cyril loved
Marion truly, and would be happy with her,
and yet it struck him that morning that his
strong, half-instinctive affection for his twin
sister touched a yet deeper chord in his
nature. Now that Marion was away, there
was a greater ease about the twins ; each
seemed to develop the other's thoughts in
some mysterious manner. They laughed to
each other, and walked hand-in-hand like
children, seeing everything through each
other's eyes — the still, sunny winter fields
and brown woods stretching away to the sea,
the flocks of weird white sea-gulls, the occasional
rabbit or pheasant starting up before
them, the larks, silent now, fluttering over
the grassy furrows the bright berries in
copse and hedgerow, the sheep peacefully
munching the mangoes a solitary shepherd
was cutting for them in a lonely field. They
called each other Cyll and Lill, abbreviations
none else ever used ; they contradicted each

other as they never dreamed of contradicting
anybody else.

Everard walked along, sometimes by their
side, sometimes behind them, as the nature
of the path obliged, and listened to them
and loved them. The twins were never so
delicious to him as when together in his
familiar presence, of which they seemed to
make no account. So long as those two
could meet together thus, an immortal childhood
would be theirs, he thought ; age could
never rob the beautiful bond between them
of its bloom. Presently they quarrelled.
Lilian sat on a felled tree in the woods
through which they were passing ; Cyril
leant up against a tree ; and Everard looked
on with amusement, and loved them all the
more in their childishness.

Oh, you babes in the wood ! " he cried
at last ; whereupon Cyril flashed upon him
one of his droll glances, and laughed.

Come, Lill," he said, " I forgive you this
time."

Absolute harmony and utter unconsciousness

of past anger was established between
them on the instant, and Everard was
amused to hear them plunge straightway
into a grave discussion upon the limits of
free-will.

They were now high on the crest of the
hill, and could see the lovely stretches of
down sweeping away to the unseen sea on
one side, while on the other the Swaynestone
lands sloped down with wood and park and
farmstead till they merged in the horizon,
which was broken here and there by tiny
blue bays of inland sea on the north.

There was no sound ; all the song-birds,
even the robin, were hushed by the frost, and
the whole landscape lay silent before them,
folded in the awful purity of winter sunshine.
The shadows in the hills and woods were blue,
and distant objects looked immensely far in
the violet haze of the winter morning. Here
they paused, deep in their argument, and
looked down over the tranquil woods and
saw the white front of Swaynestone House
gleaming in the sun.

Down in a low-lying fallow field there
were some black specks motionless in the
furrows ; suddenly they rose in a black cloud
of wings, and there were a hundred silver
flashes against the belt of coppice bordering
the field. Higher still the cloud rose, and
swift gleams of black and silver flashed in
rhythmic sequence against the pure blue of
the sky, and the weird wail of the plover
was heard faintly, as the flock floated in a
dazzle of white bodies and black wings over
the coppice till they reached another field,
into the furrows of which they dropped
motionless. While Everard and Lilian were
watching the plovers, they did not observe
that Cyril plunged into the wood behind
them and put his hand into the hollow of a
tree.

"" I was looking for a squirrel's nest," he
said, strolling back again. 'listen; I will
imitate a chaffinch."

It was a trick they used to practice when
parted from each other in the woods, and
they looked down over the roof of the

VOL. I.

Temple, which lay among the trees below
them, and thought of their old rambles for
nuts and blackberries, when little Alma
would often join them and tell them whereto
find heavy-laden boughs and brambles.
Suddenly from among the trees rose the call
of another chaffinch, exactly corresponding to
Cyril's.

Some children at play," said Cyril, carelessly
; " Lennie and Winnie, perhaps. They
were going to Swaynestone to slide. I must
get on, Everard ; I have a lot to do in
Oldport."

' Jog on, jog on, the footpath way.
And merrily hent the stile-a :
A merry heart goes all the day.
Your sad tires in a mile-a,' "

Everard sang out in his deep voice, as the

trio continued their walk at a mended pace.

After another mile through hanging woods

of beech and sycamore, they descended a hill

and climbed another crested with coppice,

through which they passed, brushing the

heavy hoar-frost from the dead leaves and

twigs as they went, and pausing for Lilian

to slow them the haunt of a little wren ina
bank. The tiny bird, attracted by some
crumbs sprinkled on her muff, came cautiously
out, climbed up her arm, pecked its dainty
meal, and suffered itself to be raised on the
muff to the level of her face, in which it
gazed confidingly, even venturing to peck at
a little stray fluff of a curl which stole over
her neck. Everard and Maitland stood apart
and watched this pleasant comedy.

You had the same power over animals as
Lilian," Everard observed to Cyril. " What
is its secret, I wonder ? "

There are three moral factors," replied
Cyril : " perfect self-control, that warm and
intelligent affection which we call sympathy,
and innocence. Lilian is the most guileless
human being on the face of this earth. There
must also be some physical attraction, I suspect
— some mesmeric or electric power, of
which we know little."

But surely you possess the three moral
factors ; how is it you have lost your power ?
Lilian was saying only last night that the

good draw nearer heaven with increasing
years, and you, whose life has been not
merely stainless, but austere "

Henry," interrupted Cyril, in his most
pathetic voice, " I am a man ! "

Lilian had replaced her tiny friend at its
house-door, and now joined the young men,
who went on their way, Everard struck and
startled by the heart-broken accent Cyril laid
on the word man, and wondering if the
morbid tone he had of late detected in the
young priest's mind did not almost verge on
insanity.

At the end of the coppice through which
they were passing was a stile standing on
a steep bank, which led by rough steps down
into the high-road, and here they parted, the
twins once more falling into discord, each
offering Henry as a companion to the other,
and declining to selfishly appropriate him,
until he laughingly suggested that he was
no mere chattel, but a being endowed with
will ; also that his will decided to take the
homeward path with Lilian — a decision which

evidently satisfied Cyril, who sprang down
the steep bank, and turned, on reaching the
road, to the stile — over which the other two
leaned — with a laughing face, and lifted his
hat in his own graceful manner. They gazed
after the light, well-carried figure for a
moment or two, little imagining how all the
light died out of the bright young face when
it turned from them, what a weight of trouble
lined the clear brow and drew down the
corners of the delicate mouth, and added ten
years, at least, to his apparent age, and then
they began to retrace their steps through the
wood.

It is like old times," Lilian observed.
Cyril and I are growing old and wise,
Henry ; we are seldom like that now. We
seem to grow apart, which we must expect."

' The old order change, giving place to
new,' "quoted Everard. "The new may be
better, but one does not like to part with
the old," he added falteringly, after a pause.

The old — was good," replied Lilian,
rather absently ; and the perfect self-command

of which her brother had spoken suddenly
deserted her, with the consciousness that the
story of her life and love was approaching a
crisis, and the two walked on in silence.

Everard's bright spirits seemed to have
flown onwards in the wake of Cyril, his heart
sank down like a thing of lead, and a dreadful
vision of all his sins and shortcomings,
his weaknesses and failings, rose ghastly and
oppressive before him. Henry Everard appeared
to him as the merest rag of a man —
the most complete failure that ever issued
from the workshops of nature and education.
He stole a glance at Lilian, walking with her
light step and airy carriage by his side ; a
sweet picture of sinless womanhood, her
cheek flushed with purest rose by exercise,
her eyes cast down contrary to their wont,
her hair touched into golden tints by the
sunlight, and the outline of her form traced
clearly against a background of frosted hazel
boughs, and his spirit died within him.
AVhat had he to offer her ? How could he
ever dare? And yet Lilian turned

under the stress of his ardent gaze, and met
his eyes for one swift moment ; then her looks
resumed their commerce with the mossy,
frost veined path, and a rich rush of crimson
flooded her face.

^' LiHan," began Henry, breathlessly, " we
have been great friends all our lives."

^' Yes," replied Lilian, regaining her natural
mental poise ; " Cyril and I always appropriate
each other's goods."

'^ Supposing Cyril out of the question." he
added hastily, " would you not care for —
value my friendship ? In short, am I not
your own personal friend ? Don't you care
a little for me for my own sake, Lilian ? "

Indeed I do, dear Henry," she replied,
a little tremulously. " There is no friend for
whom I — whom I value more highly. That
is — yes, we are real friends."

You were always dear to me, very dear —
as dear as Marion herself," continued Henry ;
"but you have become the dearest of all
since I scarcely know when — the very dearest
human being on earth. Oh, Lilian, the truth

is that I love you with all my heart ! I have
loved you long ; I cannot tell when I began."
That is not the important question,"
returned Lilian, with a little smile dawning
about her lips and eyes. "The question is,
how long do you mean to go on ? "

The same quaint, half-humorous, half-pathetic
expression which so often lighted
Cyril's pale blue eyes now gleamed from
Lilian's gray orbs, moistened with the sweet
dew which so frequently enhanced their lustre,
and even in that passionate moment Henry
observed this, and thought how closely his
love and his friendship were bound together,
and realized that Cyril was dearer than ever
lo him now that Lilian was his.

The answer to Lilian's playful earnest was
the old immemorial assertion of lovers, repeated
with endless delightful iteration, long
drawn out with Heaven knows how much
unnecessary sweetness. The old unvarying
song the birds sing every spring, with a fresh
charm that never cloys, though the white-headed
man heard it in his childhood, and in

the days when he too swelled the many voiced
marriage hymn which ascends perpetually
from the youth and strength of earth ; the
old eternal song which is yet the freshest
sound that ever falls on the ear of youth, and
fills it with a sweet bewildered surprise ;* the
theme which changed Eden from a prison to
a home ; — this delicious melody was sung over
again in the wintry woods that day, when all
the birds were hushed by the frost, and the
earth lay still in its winter trance.

The singing of this pleasant duet took a
long time, and the low midwinter sun passed
its meridian and travelled some distance on
its westward way, while they strolled slowly
on with many pauses, slowly enough to chill
blood not warmed by the current of vital
flame which young Love sends through the
veins, until they reached the spot above the
Temple, where they watched the plovers'
flight in the morning. They paused there.

At that moment a delicate music floated up
from the valley, the well-known, cheery
chiming of the waggon-bells. Nearer and

nearer the golden harmony swelled, stronger
and stronger the fairy peals waxed, as the
team approached on its way along the highroad
to Oldport, till the soft chimes came
tumbling in the full power of their sweet
turbulence upon the clear, still air.

Those are our wedding-bells," said
Everard, as they passed on and let the
melodious clashing die away behind them in
the distance. ^' It is a good omen,"

CHAPTER X.

The irony of fate will often have it so that
when life gains its culminating point of
happiness, it is but one degree from the
darkest hour of overthrow ; just as the blossom
has reached its sweetest bloom, the blighting
frost comes, and all is over. When Everard
and Lilian exchanged the promise whose
sweetness was to live through so many dark
and lonely years, they little dreamed that any
peril was near them in the silent wood. They
saw no crouching figure trembling behind
the hazel bushes ; they did not guess that
any eye, save those of the wild creatures of
the wood, witnessed their betrothal ; and
they went on their way rejoicing, making
plans for the happy future they were to
spend side by side.

When Ben Lee went home to dinner that
day, the young groom, Judkins, accompanied
him, as he often did now, finding a strange
solace to his own grief in that of the troubled
father, and pleased that the old man turned
to him for consolation. He usually left Lee
at the door, but on this occasion Mrs. Lee
came out and beckoned him in.

She's gone to meet him," she said excitedly.
"• She made believe to go and gather
a bit of brushwood in the garden, and she's
off up the hill to the wood. He must have
passed an hour ago, and there was the
whistle of a chaffinch for signal. I heard her
whistle back, the deceitful faggot, though
she thought I was safe out of the way, and
she's been watching for an opportunity ever
since. Straight up the hill she went, Lee,
not twenty minutes gone."

While Mrs. Lee was speaking, the two men
had followed her through the house, and now
stood in the back garden, whence they could
see the whole slope of the hill, with its
woody crest traced clear against the blue

midday sky. Beneath this crest the trees
had been cleared in a straight, broad strip
about the breadth of the little garden.

Look here, Ben ! " cried Judkins, seizing
the arm of Lee, who was striding rapidly
through the garden, and was about to ascend
the treeless slope ; " don't you do nothing
rash, now."

Lee's face was purple, and he shook the
younger man off with a muttered oath, when
the latter once more caught him by the arm,
and pointed upwards, with a cry.

I knew it ; I always knew it. The damned
scoundrel ! "

Just within the shadow of the wood, which
partly screened them, were two figures, the
inner and less seen, that of a woman in dark
winter clothing ; the outer, that of a man ina
suit of grey. The light hazel twigs impinged
but slightly on the latter figure, so
that its outline was distinctly seen, and the
face itself was even visible sideways for a
moment. The female figure, on the contrary,
with the face hidden in the other's arm, and

its dark outlines less striking by their colour,
could only be guessed at. The vision lasted
but a moment ; the figures moved on over
the woodland path. The hazels were denser
there, and the path turned into the wood, so
that the pair were gradually hidden, and soon
completely vanished from sight.

I'm witness, mind," Judkins muttered,
while Lee groaned aloud. '• You and me saw
him go through the village this morning in
those grey clothes and that hat."

So saying, the young man turned and
went rapidly back, avoiding the garden, and
plunging into the shadow of the trees which
bordered it on either side, while Lee toiled
up the hill. He had not gone far before
Alma appeared at the spot where the hazels
grew thin, and issued from the wood. She
started slightly when she saw her father, but
soon regained her composure, and advanced
towards him.

What were you doing in the wood ? " he
asked harshly.

I only went up for a little fresh air this
fine day," she replied gently.

Went up to hear the birds sing, perhaps,"
lie continued, with savage sarcasm.

There are no birds singing now," said
Alma, sadly. " Even the robin is silent in
the frost."

Ay, and the chaffinch. Who were you
speaking to a minute ago ? "

Nobody," she replied, looking surprised.

That's a damned lie. Alma ! "

I have spoken to no human being but
you and mother this week past," said Alma,
in a tone of weary apathy.

They had reached the garden now, and
Alma went in, scarcely hearing the imprecation
that burst from her maddened father's
lips.

Lee remained behind her ; then re-ascended
the hill and picked up a little scrap of paper
he had seen Alma tear in halves and drop
when she thought herself unobserved. He
pieced it together, and read, written in a
disguised, backward-slanting hand, " At dusk
to-night. The old spot. Important."

Oh, Alma ! " he cried ; " my pretty

Alma ! my only child ! " Then he turned
back, his brow darkening as he went, till
the momentary tenderness was quite effaced,
and he muttered fiercely beneath his breath,
I'll kill him ! I'll kill him ! "

It was late when the unconscious lovers
reached home. The bell was ringing for
luncheon, and Mark Antony wa sitting on
the doorstep, looking very cross at his
mistress's delay ; for he was a cat of regular
habits, and particularly disliked waiting for
meals. He received Lilian rather distantly,
accepted Henry's caress with haughty disdain,
and then boxed Snip's ears for barking
inopportunely.

Oh, I say, Henry ! " cried Lennie, who
was bounding into the dining-room with
fresh-brushed hair and clean collar, " ain't
you in a mess ? "

Henry had slipped on a damp bank by a
stream, in trying to gather some ivy coloured
crimson and gold for Lilian, and a great
brown-and-green stain showed strikingly on
the knee of his grey suit. In two bounds

he was in his room, and in three seconds
out of the stained suit and into another,
consisting of a black coat and lower garments
of the same tone of grey as those discarded.
The grey suit was folded neatly and placed
on a chair ; and he appeared at the table in
less than five minutes in that perfect neatness
and cleanliness which so especially distinguish
the English gentleman.

No one observed his change of dress, though
everybody had noticed the morning's grey suit.
It was rather light in colour for the season,
according to the fashion of that day, and had
commended itself to Everard from the sense
of cleanliness that light colours always
afforded him. Lilian, indeed, observed that
the grey coat was replaced by a black one,
and, in speculating afterwards on the subject,
she came to the conclusion that the black
had probably been assumed for indoor wear,
as being cooler than the thick frieze.

Marion appeared at luncheon, having
dropped in on her way to Oldport, where
she had errands in connection with the New

VOL. I. S

Year's ball at Woodlands. She made a
charming little face of disappointment at the
non-appearance of Cyril ; but the disappointment
by no means spoilt her appetite, and
she kept them all alive by her sprightly
conversation and playful, endearing ways.
She petted Mr. Maitland in a most enchanting
manner ; teased the children and the
cat ; was impertinent to Lilian when gently
rebuked for these misdemeanours ; snubbed
her brother, according to her usual custom ;
and was very tender in the little cares she
lavished on Mrs. Maitland. Her vivacity,
and the bright, warm-coloured style of her
beauty, and the aerial lightness of her form
made a good foil to Lilian's repose and gentle
dignity, the quieter tones of her colouring,
and the more majestic development of her
figure.

Everard regarded his sister as a charming
wayward child, loved her little rebellious
ways, and put up contentedly with all her
naughtiness. He was six years her senior,
and had been the youngest of the family till

her birth, which cost their mother her life ;
and then the orphan baby became the object
of his tenderest care, and he soothed away
his own sorrowful sense of orphanhood by
hovering over the tiny sister's slumbers, and
amusing her waking moments by all kinds
of childish devices. It was partly for the
baby's sake that he was never sent to school ;
partly also in obedience to the request of his
dead mother, who judged, from her experience
of the elder boys, that the benefits of public
schools were overbalanced by their contaminations
and temptations. All his life he had
been Marion's devoted slave, and, like other
despots, she received his devotion with a
satisfaction not unmingled with contempt.

What on earth is Cyril doing in Oldport
all day ? " Marion asked. " What business
can he possibly have ? "

Upon my word, I cannot imagine,"
replied Mr. Maitland, who had not considered
the subject before.

And Marion's question set Everard thinking.
Cyril was not likely to make many

purchases in the little country town ; his
affairs were in the hands of London lawyers ;
he could not want money ; he had no friends
there; in short, it was very odd that he
should spend the day in a little market town
on business that could not be postponed, and
so miss the partly expected' visit of Marion.

Marion, however, carried Mr. Maitland off
with her after luncheon, on his remembering
that he had certain commissions to execute,
and Lilian drove to Swaynestone to pay her
long-promised call on Lady Swaynestone,
and advise her about her charities according
to her request. She had a thousand things
to do, and was much troubled that she could
not visit a certain Widow Dove, who lived
in a lonely cottage on the down, that afternoon,
and carry her a little present of money.
So Henry, finding that he could not be
allowed to accompany Lilian to Lady Wayne
since the ladies wished to discuss
business, offered to be Lilian's almoner,
and was eagerly accepted.

He saw Lilian and the children off in the

pony-carriage, and then betook himself to
writing some letters in the room called
Lilian's ; and, having done this, he remembered
that Lilian had lamented having
no time to frame and hang the photograph
of Gruercino's picture, and did this for her,
the frame having been already furnished by
the village carpenter.

In the mean time, at about three o'clock,
Cyril appeared in the drawing-room, where
Mrs. Maitland was lying on her couch. He
had finished his business, got some luncheon
at Oldport, and been picked up just out of
the town by Farmer Long, who drove him
home in his gig, he said. Then, after ten
minutes' chat with his mother, he went to his
room, telling her that he wished to get a
sermon ready for the next Sunday, when he
was to be at work again, and requesting that
he might not be disturbed till dinner.

All this Mrs. Maitland told Everard, when
he looked into the drawing-room a few
minutes later.

I begged him to put off his sermon-writing

till another day," she said, " for he
looked woefully haggard and weary ; but I
could not persuade him. He says he feels so
burdened until he has got his Sunday's
sermons off his mind. Just like his father.
He always does his sermons on Monday, if
he can, and feels a free man for the rest of
the week."

It is rather odd," Everard observed,
'' that Cyril should spend so much time in
writing his sermons ; for he is supposed to
be an extempore preacher."

Last Sunday's sermon was certainly
extempore," his mother replied ; " he had
some manuscript, but scarcely referred to it
more than once. I wonder if I am a very
foolish old woman, Henry, for thinking that
Cyril has a really singular gift in preaching ?
His voice appears to me to be something
quite out of the common. And I have heard
John Bright's oratory, and Gladstone's, and
Disraeli's, the best preachers in our own
Church, and those brilliant Roman Catholics
who attracted such crowds to Notre Dame."

I think, Mrs. Maitland," replied Everard,
who was rather distraught in his manner,
since he was nerving himself to introduce the
topic of his engagement, " that Cyril will be
reckoned the greatest preacher in the Church
of England."

Then some people called, and Everard
made his escape as soon as he decently could,
and at about a quarter to four he started on
his walk to Widow Dove's with a light heart.
His road was, as far as the wood above the
Temple, the same as that he had pursued so
happily with Lilian an hour or two before,
and it filled him with unspeakable rapture to
recall the delightful incidents in his morning
walk as he went, so that he was dreamy and
unobservant, and scarcely spoke to the people
he met on his solitary ramble, a thing very
unusual with him.

The sun was declining redly and with
great pomp of cloud scenery in the west — a
glorious ending, he thought, of the happiest
of happy years ; and that was the only clue
he had to the time of his starting, when

referring in memory to this fatal walk, since
he omitted, in his dreamy abstraction, to look
at his watch, though he was naturally so
precise in his habits, and had such a keen
sense of the passage of time.

When he reached Widow Dove's lonely
dwelling, he found it cold and dark, the
door shut, and no smoke issuing from the
chimney ; the widow and her daughter were
evidently gone away for a day or two. He
felt a sort of eerie shiver at the darkness and
gloom of the solitary homestead, though he
little dreamt that his fate or the fate of
those he loved could be influenced by a
circumstance so trifling as the emptiness of a
secluded cottage.

Then he turned his face homewards in
the gathering dusk, choosing another way
from that by which he came, by that strange
fatality which pursues doomed men, and
strode gaily and swiftly along over the open
down, every dimple and hollow of which
were familiar to him from boyhood. Some
stars were out now, sparkling keenly in the

clear, frosty sky, in which the moon had not
yet risen. Over hedge and ditch, and through
copses, and round plantations Everard sped
blithely, until he approached the high-road
leading to Malbourne. Here his pace slackened,
and he listened carefully for the sound
of Long's waggon-bells, which he thought
would carry far in the frosty stillness.

But there was no repetition of the fairy
peals which rang so blithely in the morning,
and he got as far as the wheelwright's
corner without having heard them. Grove,
the waggoner, was to bring him a parcel
from Oldport, a little parcel that he feared
might be forgotten if he did not intercept it.
Here he met Grranfer, toiling slowly along
on his way to spend the evening at Hale's,
whose wife was one of his numerous descendants.
Had Granter heard the team go
by ? he asked.

No, I ain't a years 'em since this
morning, zo to say ; not as I knows on,
Dr. Everard," Granter replied, with his usual
circumlocution. " I 'lows I feared 'em's

morning, sure enough. They was a-going
into Oldport, as I reckons, as you med say
somewheres about noon or thereabouts. No,
I 'lows I ain't appeared nor a bell since that
there ; not as I knows on, I ain't."

After some further conversation, Everard
strolled slowly on in the direction of Long's
farm, full of anxiety about his precious packet,
which he knew would fade. Near Long's he
heard that the team had returned some time
before, and his packet had been sent to the
Eectory.

Striking across the fields, he returned in
the deepening night, without going through
the village, and, meeting with a little delay
in consequence of an old gap having been
recently stopped in a fence — a good stiff
bullfinch — he gained the Rectory at about
six o'clock, thus missing, to his disgust the
charmed hour of tea. There, when he entered,
was the precious little box on the hall table,
and he caught it up, and was going to unfasten
it in his room, when Winnie waylaid
him at the foot of the stairs, eager for a romp,

which romp resulted in Winnie, while being-tossed
high in air, throwing back her head
and striking him a tremendous blow in the
eye with it, so that he set her hastily down
with an exclamation of pain, and put his hand
to his face.

You've done it now, Winnie ; blinded
me," he said.

Oh, Henry, I am so sorry ! " sobbed
Winnie. " And they won't let me go to
Long's tea-party tomorrow ; it was only on
Sunday I made Ingram Swaynestone's nose
bleed."

Never mind, darling' said Everard, kissing
and soothing her ; " it was not your fault
at all."

Then he promised to let no one know
of his black eye, and to do his best to cure
it ; to which intent he procured raw meat
from the kitchen, and went to his room,
taking Winnie with him to help him unpack
the parcel, which contained some choice
white flowers. These he bid the child take
to her sister at once, while he shut himself

up, and tried to subdue the rising inflammation
in the bruised eye to the best of his
ability.

He was anxious to avoid such an ornament
as a black eye on his own account, as well
as the child's, since a black eye does not
improve a man's appearance at a ball, nor
is it in keeping with popular ideas of a newly
accepted lover. So he doctored himself till
it was time to get ready for dinner, and then,
seeing the grey suit lie on the chair as he
had placed it in the morning, he sponged the
green stain away from it. Scarcely had he
done this when he saw other stains, some still
wet, and, procuring some fresh water, sponged
these also. The water was red when he
finished.

Blood," he thought, being well used to
such stains. 'did I cut myself anywhere, I
wonder ? "

He did not, however, waste much thought
on this trivial incident, but sponged the
garments clean in his tidy way, and left the
crimsoned water in the basin, where it subsequently

gave Martha, the housemaid, what
she described as a turn. Then he made his
appearance in the drawing-room, carefully
avoiding the lights, and gave rather a lame
account of himself since his return from the
fruitless errand to Widow Dove's. He was
rewarded for his labour on Lilian's behalf, by
the sweetest smile in the world, and was
enchanted to observe at dinner that Lilian
wore one of the white roses from his bouquetin
her dress.

Cyril did not appear at dinner; he sent
word that one of his bad headaches had come
on, and begged that he might be undisturbed
for the night.

Poor dear Cyril ! " said Lilian ; " it is so
hard for a man to have headaches. His are
like mine ; nothing but quiet heals them."

Their very headaches are twins," Mr.
Maitland observed. " Why, Henry," he
added, " what have you done to your eye ?
You appear to have been in the wars, man."

Winnie, who was standing by the fire,
here threw an imploring glance at Henry,

and completely scattered what few talents he
had ever possessed for dissimulation.

I — I — I knocked my head against something
in the dark," he stammered ; '' I — it
was purely accidental."

What a nasty blow ! " said Lilian, observing
it ; " you will have a black eye. What
a pity ! Ah, sir ! perhaps that accounts for
your rudeness to me this evening."

"My rudeness, Lilian? What can you
mean ? " asked Henry.

Yes, your incivility to me, and also to
Mark Antony, who was actually doing you
the honour of running to meet you — the
haughty Mark himself Think of that ! "

I can only apologize to both with the
deepest humility," he replied, stroking the
petted animal, who was dining with his usual
urbane condescension at Lilian's side ; " but
indeed I am quite innocent, having seen
neither you nor puss since you started for
Swaynestone."

Then Lilian told how at tea-time, on passing
from the back regions towards the

drawing-room, accompanied by her usual
body-guard, Mark Antony, she had seen Henry
run across the back hall towards the staircase ;
had called to him about Widow Dove's commission
; while the cat, with a mew of delight,
had bounded after him. He had rushed on,
however, in the dusk, a grey, ghost-like figure,
and flitted up the stairs to his room, followed
by Mark, whom he expelled ignominiously,
shutting the door after him.

You must be under some delusion,"
replied Henry, utterly confounded. " I saw
no cat when I came in."

It was growing very dark," Lilian said,
*' and Martha was late in lighting the hall-lamp
to-night, for which, indeed, I afterwards
rebuked her."

The lamps were lighted " Henry

began, and then stopped at the sight of
Winnie, who was gesticulating in an agonized
manner behind her mother's chair. " This
sounds extremely ghost-like," he added ; " I
hope it bodes me no misfortune. It must
have been my wraith, Lilian."

It sounds rather eerie, certainly," interposed
Mr. Maitland. '' Lilian dear, I hope
you are not going to take to seeing people's
wraiths. It gives me the most fearful jumps
to think of"

I am creeping from head to foot," added
Mrs. Maitland, laughing ; " and on the last
night of the year, too. Dr. Everard, what
prescriptions have you for young ladies who
take to ghost-seeing ? "

"I am going to ask you for another cutlet,
sir. My appetite will convince you that I, at
least, am no illusion, but a substantial reality,"
said Henry, instead of replying.

There never was any deception about
you, Harry lad," returned Mr. Maitland,
cordially ; " you were always real."

The evening which ensued ought to have
been very happy, but somehow it was not.
A vague uneasiness was in the air ; Cyril's
absence created a void in the family party,
and the children, who were permitted to stay
up for the New Year, grew tired, and consequently
tiresome. Mr. Maitland, when he

recovered from his after-dinner nap, which
was unusually long, read them one of Dickens's
Christmas tales, and although it was pleasant
to Henry to sit by Lilian and watch her
beautiful white hands at their busy task of
embroidering some silken flowers, he was not
sorry when, the servants having been assembled
in the drawing-room, a pleasant
clinking of glasses was heard, and, the usual
ceremonies of toasting and hand-shaking gone
through, the bells began drowsily chiming the
Old Year out from the belfry hard by.

They all went into the hall then, Mr.
Maitland opened the door wide to let the New
Year in, and Lilian and Henry, hand-in-hand,
gazed trustfully out into the starry sky to
meet it, their hearts full of the sweetest hopes.

When Henry went to his room soon after,
he could not refrain from opening Cyril's
door, which adjoined his own, and just looking
in, thinking he might be asleep. He pushed
the door very softly, and introduced his head.
Only a faint light was burning from one
candle, and by this dim ray he saw Cyril

VOL. I. T

kneeling half-dressed before a picture of the
Crucifixion. His face was hidden in his
hands, and he was sobbing in a low, suppressed
way.

Henry shut the door softly, and stealthily
withdrew, vexed at his own intrusion.
That is not the way to cure the headache,"
he mused, half awed at the manner
in which the young priest received the New
Year. Yet who could venture to say that
watching and fasting and tearful contrition
were not eminently fitting, in one set apart
for holy functions, at such a season ? "I
wonder," Everard continued to speculate,
what infinitesimal peccadilloes the poor
lad is mourning with all that expenditure of
nervous energy ? " Then he thought of his
own weaknesses and shortcomings, and felt
pitchy black in contrast with a soul so white.

CHAPTER XI.

The wheelwright's house stood just on the
crest of the steep little hill which carries the
pilgrim down into the village of Malbourne
with a rapid acceleration of pace, and which
ends where the four roads meet. The Sun
Inn stands at one corner, facing the incoming
pilgrim cheerfully on its left ; and opposite
this tidy hostelry stands a sign-post apparently
waving four gaunt arms distractedly,
and seeming to bid the wayfarer pause
beneath the thatched roof of the little inn,
whether his journey's end lie onwards over
the high-road, or oblige him to turn aside
through the village by church and Rectory.

On the traveller's right, facing him, is a
cottage, and facing that is the wheelwright's
yard, full of timber and waggons half built or

broken. The wheelwright's dwelling, standing
above the grassy yard, commands a fine
view of the village nestled under the down
and the sweeping parklands of Northover on
one side, and on the other looks over an undulating
landscape to the sea. It is a cheery
little house, pleasantly shaded by a couple of
shapely lindens in front, and close to the
high-road, upon which its front windows and
deep-timbered porch give.

On New Year's Eve the wheelwright's
windows were all lighted up, and there was
even a lantern at the little front wicket,
which gazed out like a friendly eye, as if to
bid people enter and make merry within, and
threw a yellow fan shaped radiance on the
steep road without. The porch door was
open, and disclosed a passage lighted by a
candle in a tin sconce adorned with holly.
On one side, an open door revealed the chill
dignities of the best parlour, which not even
a blazing fire and abundance of holly-berries
could quite warm.

On a haircloth sofa in this state apartment

sat Mrs. Hale, of Malbourne Mill, and Mrs.
Wax, the schoolmaster's wife, both exceedingly
upright, and both holding a handkerchief
of Gargantuan dimensions over the
hands they crossed in their laps. Opposite,
in a horsehair arm-chair, sat an elderly lady
in a plum-coloured silk gown, gold chain,
and a splendid cap, also very upright, and
also holding a Gargantuan handkerchief.
This was Mrs. Cave, the wife of a small
farmer in the neighbourhood.

Each lady's face wore a resigned expression,
mingled with the calm exultation natural to
people who know themselves to be the most
aristocratic persons in a social gathering.
Each realized that Wiirde hat JBiirde, and felt
herself equal to the occasion ; each paused,
before making or replying to an observation,
to consider the most genteel subjects of
conversation and the most genteel language
in which to clothe them.

Remarkably fine weather for the time of
year, ladies," observed Mrs. Hale, soothing
her soul by the pleasant rustle her shot-silk

gown made when she smoothed it, and
regretting that her gold chain was not so
new-fashioned as Mrs. Cave's ; while, on the
other hand, she experienced a delicious
comfort in meditating on the superiority of
hier brooch, which was a large flat pebble ina
gold frame.

Indeed, mem, it is most seasonable,
though trying for delicate chester," returned
Mrs. Cave, with her finest company smile,
after which a pause of three minutes ensued.

Some say the frost is on the break," continued
Mrs. Hale, wondering if it would be
genteel to ask Mrs. Cave how much her cap
cost. She had an agonized suspicion that it
would not.

After five minutes, Mrs. Wax, whose comparative
youth and lower rank occasioned
her some diffidence, took up her parable in
the following genteel manner : — " Her ladyship
was observing this morning "

But what her ladyship was observing was
never revealed to man, since at that moment,
"Widow Hale, the host's mother, came bursting'

in, stout, healthy, and red-faced, her cap
slightly awry, and called out in her hearty,
wholesome voice —

Well, now, my dears, and how are you
getting on ? I'm that hailed up with so
many about, I ain't had a minute to last after
ye all. Mary Ann, my dear, give me a kiss
do, and a hearty welcome to you all, and a
kiss all round, and do make yourselves at
home. Now, is the tea to your liking ?
This best teapot ain't much at drawing. I
ain't much of a one for best things myself;
well enough for looking at, and just to say
you've got them, but give me work-a-day
things for comfort. There ain't above half
the company come yet, and Mary Ann upset
about the pies for supper. Do just as y(Hi
would at home, and you will please me. If
there ain't dear old Grranfer coming in, bless
his heart ! Come in, Granter, and kindly
welcome."

And so saying, the kind soul bustled out,
and relieved Granter of his hat, while her
daughter-in-law, the actual hostess, came todo

the honours of the best parlour, bringing
in three more female guests of distinction,
who were much awed by the appalling
gentility of the three already assembled, and
a little inclined to regret their own social
importance.

Granter and the widow, in the mean time,
entered the great kitchen, a long, low, whitewashed
room, with heavy beams across the
ceiling, a stone floor, and a wide hearth with
a wood fire burning between dogs upon it.
The ceiling and walls wore their everyday
decoration of hams, guns, a spit, various
cooking utensils, a tiny bookshelf, and a
large dresser, well garnished with crockery
and peters, together with their festal
Christmas adorning of holly, fir, and mistletoe,
and a round dozen of tin sconces bearing
tallow candles. There was an oaken settle
on one side the chimney corner, into the
cosiest nook of which Granter deposited his
bent form with a sigh of content, and gazed
round upon the assembled guests with
benevolence.

On a long table on trestles at one end of
the room was spread a solid meal, consisting
of a huge ham, own brother to those depending
in rich brown abundance from the ceiling ;
a south-country, skim-milk cheese, finely
marbled with greenish blue veins, and resembling
Stilton in reduced circumstances ; a
great yellow and brown mass of roast beef; a
huge pie ; several big brown blocks of plumage
; and some vast loaves of white home-baked
bread and pats of fresh butter. The
forks were of steel, and black-handled like the
knives ; and the spoons, of which there was a
dearth, were pewter. A deficiency of teacups
suggested to Corporal Tom Hale the
agreeable expedient of sharing one between
a lady and a gentleman, which was hailed
with applause by his naval brother, and
immediately acted upon.

For those guests who looked upon tea as
an enervating beverage, there was ample
provision in the shape of various brown and
yellow jugs filled with ale from the cask Tom
and Jim had procured for the occasion ; and

it was generally understood that liquor of a
still more comforting nature was held in
reserve to stimulate conviviality at a later
hour. The blacksmith, Straun, the clerk,
Stevens, with their wives and families, were
there ; also Baines, the discontented tailor,
and the husbands of the best-parlour ladies.

The wheelwright's wife, a comely woman
of thirty, and his sister, a blooming damsel
some ten years younger, ran to and fro with
flushed faces among the guests, while the
widow made herself ubiquitous.

The uniforms of Tom and Jim, with those
of three or four artillerymen from the neighbouring
forts, and the red coats of a couple
of kinsmen, together with the bright ribbons
of the women, lent colour and variety to the
monotony of black coats and smock-frocks,
and upon the whole the wheelwright's
kitchen presented as cheery and animated a
sight as one would wish to see on a New
Year's Eve. Nor was a town element wanting
in the rustic gathering ; for just as tea
was in full swing, and little Dickie Stevens — ■

whose tea lay in the future, after the serving
of his elders — was supplying the place of a
band by playing hymn-tunes on his concertina,
a taxed-cart drove up, and deposited
two chilled mortals from Oldport, Mr. and
Mrs. Wells, green grocers, and related, by
some inextricable family complications known
only in that remote south-country district,
more or less to nearly all the company.

Tea being finished, pipes were produced,
also ale, and there was wild work in a dimly
lighted quarter of the kitchen, where the
Hale brothers had cunningly arranged unexpected
mistletoe, and whence smothered
shrieks of laughter and sounds as of ears
being vigorously boxed issued every now and
then.

The odd part about the mistletoe business
was the extreme gullibility of the ladies,
who were by far too guileless to profit by
the experience of others in that dangerous
region, and suffered themselves to be decoyed
thither on the flimsiest pretexts, and betrayed
the utmost surprise and indignation at the

kissing which invariably ensued. As for
Tom and Jim, they went to work with a
business-like determination to kiss every girl
in the room, and several respectable matrons
into the bargain. It was about this time
that the artillery sergeant and the wheelwright's
pretty sister Patty vanished, and
were subsequently discovered at the front
door, enjoying the soft December breeze and
studying astronomy, a study which produced
the happiest subsequent results, and set the
Malbourne bells chiming in the spring of the
coming year.

So large and successful a party had not
been held in Malbourne for many a year, the
predominance of the military element greatly
contributing to its success ; for the sons of
Mars excelled not only in the art of pleasing
the fairer sex, which has in all ages been
considered their special function, but possessed
many other accomplishments of social value.
A very pretty bit of fencing was exhibited
between a red and a blue coat, and Corporal
Tom snuffed candles with a pistol, amid

shrieks of terrified delight from the women.
One soldier sang a comic, another a sentimental,
song ; and when little Dick Stevens
was perched on a table, and warbled out,
*' Rosalie, the Prairie Flower," and 'await for
the Waggon," to the accompaniment of Wax's
clarion and Baines's violin, the kitchen
ceiling trembled and threatened to drop its
quivering hams and hollies at the powerful
chorus furnished by these stalwart warriors,
and the gentility of the best parlour was
finally melted by it to such a deliquescence
as to mingle freely with the vulgar currents
circulating in the kitchen.

Indeed, village talent was quite in the shade
during the first part of the evening, and the
discreet Corporal Tom observed such depreciation
on the faces of the village genuine that
he resolved to put off asking for the recitation
with which he knew a certain warrior to be
primed until a later hour, and created a
diversion by proposing a game of Turn the
Trencher, which absorbed the children and
younger people at one end of the room, and

left the circle of elders round the chimney
free to converse or visit the best parlour,
where fruit and sherry wine were laid out, as
they pleased.

I seen young Mr. Maitland in Oldport
to-day," observed the town greengrocer's
lady, one of the fireside circle, by way of
furnishing the town news to her rustic
friends.

Now, did you, Mrs. Wells ? " returned
her host. " Ah ! so you seen he ? "

Yes, Mr. Hale ; I seen him go into the
bank opposite, and stay there — oh ! I should
think a good hour," continued Mrs. Wells,
adjusting her cap-ribbons with a complacent
sense of their splendour. " He's grown more
personable than ever ; but he do look ill,
poor young gentleman, to be sure — that
white and thin ! "

That's living in Lunnun," said Hale ;
** Lunnun takes it out of a man. I never
held with going to Lunnun myself. Never
snowed any good come of it."

Ah, you don't know every think, Jacob

Hale ! " said Granter, benevolently. " 'Ain't,
zo to say, natural to a man as gives himself
entirely to wheels. You does your best, but
more sense can't come out of ye than the
Almighty have a put in. Na-a. You don't
know everything, Jacob Hale, I says."

The profundity of this remark produced a
deep impression, particularly upon the wheelwright,
who appeared to think he had received
a great compliment from Grranfer, and
rekindled his pipe at the burning gorse on
the hearth with a beatified air.

Seems as though summit had been
a-taking of it out of Mr. Cyril," observed the
blacksmith, thoughtfully.

'Ain't, zo to say, Lunnon, Jarge Straun,"
replied Grranfer, solemnly. '' No, Jarge
Straun ; 'ain't Lunnon, as you med say.
I ses to Bill Stevens 's morning, I says,
Bill,' I says, says I, ' brains is the matter wi'
Mr. Cyril,' I says, ' that's what's the matter
wi' he ; '" and Grranfer's keen grey eyes took
a survey of all the listening, stolid faces, and
he experienced a keen sense of enjoyment, ashe

leant forwards, his hands crossed on his
staff, and felt that he was getting into regular
conversational swing. " Ay, that's what I
zed, sure enough," he added.

Brains ! " repeated Straun, thoughtfully.
'' I never feared of nobody dying of brains,
as I knows on."

You ain't a veered every think, Jarge
Straun," returned Granter, severely. " Ay,
you med mark my words, it all runs to
brains wi' Mr. Cyril ; there ain't, as you med
say, nothing left to run to flesh and vat,
whatever he med put inside of himself.
Mankind is like the lower o' the yield :
where it all runs to lower, there ain't, zo
to say, zo much leaf as you med swear by ;
then, agen, I tell 'ee, where it all runs to
leaf, you can't expect no lower to speak on.
Look at broccoli ! "

Here Granter, being fairly launched, struck
out from personal to general observations,
and thence, at the prompting of his grandson,
to the hoary regions of history.

Ay, I minds Boney, to be sure — well I

minds be ; " and he related the oft-told tale
of the frequent scares the inhabitants of those
coasts received, sometimes by authentic
rumours of Bonaparte's appearance at sea,
sometimes by the accidental or mistaken
kindling of the beacons on every prominent
headland and on the downs, where a watch
was kept day and night for the appearance
of the dreaded foe.

He told how the wealthy farmers sent their
silver and other valuables, sometimes including
even their women and children
under the latter head, inland for safety —
most of them, apparently, having first consulted
Granter on the subject — in consequence
of Bonaparte's rumoured descents on
that fated coast ; also of the rousing of the
volunteers at the dead of night on one of
these occasions — of their march to the seashore,
and their all getting lost on the way,
and arriving next morning on a scene of
profound peace. Then came the great
smuggler story, and the tragic history of the
loss of the ship Halifax, the crew and

VOL. I. U

passengers of which lay burled in the wind-swept
churchyard near the fatal shore which
wrecked them. Five young women were
among those washed ashore and subsequently
buried, and their appearance, as Granter saw
them, lying pale and beautiful side by side
awaiting burial, was the climax of this story ;
after delivering it he usually paused and
looked round for some moments with working
lips to enjoy the silence of the interested
listeners.

Having thus got his audience, which consisted
mainly of village seniors, well in hand,
Grranfer began, to the accompaniment of the
young people's continuous laughter, somewhat
softened by distance, to play upon their love
of the marvellous and the horrible, and produced
some delightful creeps by his eerie
tales ; and finally landed himself in his renowned
narrative of his midnight adventure
upon Down End, a bleak, storm-stricken
eminence, where the last man gibbeted in
these parts, a truculent villain, with a most
romantic history, then swung in chains.

Granter had been belated on a moonless,
cloudy night, had wandered far in the cutting-wind,
and had begun to guess that he had at
last done with the downs, and reached the well-known
Down End — an unpleasant spot for a
midnight stroll, since, besides the unwelcome
presence of the murderer on his gibbet, an
extensive chalk quarry there supplied an
array of little precipices high enough to cost
any one slipping over the edge his life.

Granter had arrived at a vague mass looming
through the darkness, a dim something,
which he conjectured to be the sign-post, an
erection which shared the same eminence
with the gibbet at many yards distance from
it, and was about to strike a light with the
flint and steel in his pocket to a weird
accompaniment of shrieks and moans and
unholy riot of clanking and hissing, which
might be only the voices of the midnight
storm, but, on the other hand, might he what
Granter wisely left to his hearers' imaginations,
when " all on a sudden there comes a
girt bang on the shoulders of me, flint and

steel lies out of my hands, and down I good,
flat as a flounder on my vance, wi' summit
atop o' me," the old man was saying, his
wrinkled face and keen eyes lighted by the
blazing gorse fire and his own imagination,
while Straun and Hale, and the other worthies,
with open mouths, staring eyes, and dropped
pipes, and the women, with various contortions
of visage and extensive clasping of
shivering hands, gazed with tense, strained
attention upon the withered, eager countenance,
when the door burst open, and William
Grove, supported by Corporal Tom, staggered
into the kitchen, white-faced and trembling,
and fell into a chair placed for him in the
centre of the room, clapping his hands convulsively
upon his knees, and exclaiming at
intervals, " Lard ! Lard 'a massey ! "
and the sudden apparition, coming thus upon
strained nerves and excited imaginations,
produced a most alarming effect.

The women screamed and clung to one
another ; the men uttered ejaculations ; the
game of Turn the Trencher broke up in dismay,

and the players came clustering round the
distracted Grove ; while the services of the
military were called into requisition to soothe
the terrors and agitations of the prettiest girls,
the gallant sergeant finding it necessary to
place his arm round the blooming form of
Miss Patty Hale for the distressed damsel's
support.

Lard 'a massey ! Willum Grove," exclaimed
Granter at last, with impatience, " if
you ain't got nothing better to say than Lard
'a massey, you med zo well bide quiet, I tell
'ee. Lard love 'ee, Willum, you never had
no sense to speak on, but you be lane dutch
now. Ay, Willum be lane dunces'' he added ;
while the astute Tom, who said that William
had come flying in at the porch door (where
the gallant corporal had been helping pretty
Miss Cave to admire the moon), and could be
prevailed upon to make no other observation
than that so scornfully censured by Granter,
assisted the waggoner's faculties by a timely
draught of ale. After disposing of this, and
drying his mouth with the back of his hand,

William recovered slightly and found his
tongue.

'' Lard 'a massey on us all ! " he cried ;
they bin an' done for poor Ben Lee."

Done for him ! " cried a chorus of voices
in various tones of horror and dismay.

Done var en, sure enough ! " repeated
William, rocking himself backward and forward,
in a strange contrast to his usual
stolidity. ^' We bin an' wound the body ! "

It was even so. Ben Lee left his home at
dinner-time, and had not returned. At teatime,
Mrs. Lee was returning in the dusk
from an errand to Malbourne, and met a
hurrying figure clad in grey, as she came
through the fields beneath the wood, which
was on the crest of the hill above the Temple.
She found only Alma in the house, and after
waiting with more discontent than disquiet,
she concluded that work had delayed her
husband, and finally took her tea and seated
herself at her needlework by the fire.

At half-past seven Sir Lionel and Lady
Swaynestone, with their daughter, were

dressed for a dinner-party and awaiting the
arrival of the carriage, which had been
ordered at that hour. But no carriage
appeared, and a message to the stables
elicited the news that the coachman had not
been there since the afternoon, when Ingram
Swaynestone chanced to have seen him near
his home. A messenger to the Temple returned
with the tidings that he had not
been home ; and then Judkins asked for an
audience with Sir Lionel, which resulted ina
search-party being sent forth to find the
missing man, whose habits were regular and
punctual.

William Grove, who chanced to be on some
errand to Swaynestone for his master before
going to the wheelwright's party, assisted
in the search, and was with Judkins when
Lee was discovered quite dead in the wood
above his home. There were no signs of
any struggle on the hard frozen path, from
whence his body had evidently been dragged
into the fern and brush, whither it was traced
by the marks on the rime-covered moss and

the disorder of the ferns and brambles. A
slight wound on the face, which had bled,
but could not have killed him, was the only
sign of violence at first seen.

The lights were not extinguished at Sandstone
House till nearly dawn. Sir Lionel,
who was a magistrate, set to work at once
to investigate the fatal affair, the police were
immediately informed, and every member
of the Swaynestone household was closely
questioned, as well as Mrs. Lee. Poor
Alma could not be subjected to much interrogation,
and was not in a position to throw
any light upon the tragedy. Death was not
the only visitor at the Temple ; a new life,
scarcely less tragic than the death, began
there on that fatal night, and the New Year
rose upon sorrow and dismay in hall and
cottage.

It took long to extract what he knew of
the affair from William Grove, but this was
at length accomplished, amid varied comment
and ejaculation. Granter said no further
word until the whole truth had been elicited,

and then upon the first favourable pause lie
looked round with an air of great solemnity,
and took up his parable thus : " You med
all mark my words. Somebody's hae to
swing for this yere. Ay, I've said it, and
I'll say it agen : somebody's hae to swing."

CHAPTER XII.

Next to the divine sweetness of youthful
love, nothing so completely charms and enthrals
us as the rapid development of new
ideas and the swift inrush of fresh knowledge
in the spring-time of life. How the world
widens to the eager student, what vast and
endless horizons open out to his gaze, as he
acquires fresh knowledge ! What a sense of
power his thoughts give him as they draw
together from the vagueness of scattered
speculations, and take definite shape before
him ! Love unlocks the gate of a yet undiscovered
world of emotion, which has its
higher and lower circles, its purgatory and
paradise, and its endless possibilities beyond ;
knowledge and ripening thought rend the
obscuring veils from the illimitable universe.

The enthusiastic delight of fresh discovery
is in both cases the very elixir of life ; nay,
it is life itself.

On the last day of the year, Everard discovered
the new world of love ; and on New
Year's morning, under the stimulus of a
fresh happiness, a theory, after which he had
long been groping with many a vague surmise
and hazardous hypothesis, interrupted
by hopeless gaps in evidence, suddenly revealed
itself complete and flawless before him.
It came like an electric shock, with such a
happy flash of inspiration that he was obliged
to pause in his dressing to take in the results
of the unconscious cerebration which his
studies and speculations had set up, while
tears of joy rushed to his eyes. Clear and
distinct as it was to his own mind, he knew
that years of patient labour and minute
scientific investigation must pass before he
could present it to other minds, but he knew
also that, once verified, it would make an
epoch in the study of physiology.

Such a superabundance of happiness as

Everard's might well excite the malignity of
envious gods, and would have prompted an
ancient Greek to throw away some precious
thing in all haste. But being a Christian
Englishman, Everard did not follow the
example of Poly crates ; nay, had he been a
G-reek of old days, he would never have
imputed envy or malignity to the strong immortals.
Strength was to him a guarantee
of goodness, because his own strength made
him noble and kind ; it made him also pitiful
to the malice and spite of weak things.

Full of this new rapture, his eyes hazy
with abstraction, as the eyes of dreamers are
hazy with dreams, Everard went forth to
meet the New Year's new joy like one borne
upon clouds, and reached the breakfast-room
just at the end of prayers. Mr. Maitland
according to custom, was dismissing the
maids with a kind good morning and New
Year's wish, when Eliza, whose face was
stained with tears, paused with a spasmodic,
Oh, please, sir ! "

You are discomposed, Eliza," said Mr.

Maitland, gently, while he looked round and
observed similar perturbation on the faces of
the other maids. '' Nothing wrong, I hope ? "

Poor Ben Lee ! " sobbed Eliza, resorting
to her handkerchief.

He was found dead, sir," added Martha,
the housemaid, her grief, which was sincere,
tempered by a certain delight in the tragically
impressive.

It was Stevens brought the news," added
the cook, who was also not impervious to
the pleasure of communicating disastrous
intelligence.

Found dead ! My good girls ! In
Heaven's name, where ? when ? Oh, surely
not ! Where is Stevens ? " cried Mr. Maitland,
as much agitated as the heart of woman
could desire. '' Oh, those poor Lees ! What
trouble ! what trouble ! "

It was last night, sir," continued Eliza,
much refreshed by her master's perturbation,
and by the copious tears with which she had
accompanied the broken narrative. " Sir
Lionel had lanterns sent out for him."

He did not die in his bed, then ? " the
deep voice of Everard. broke in.

He was hid away in the wood," replied
Martha ; " and they do say "

I must go to the Temple at once," interrupted
Mr. Maitland, starting off to get his
hat, with an injunction to the women not to
talk over the tragedy, which he might as
well have addressed to the wind.

Lilian with great difficulty succeeded in
keeping him back until she had made him
drink some coffee and take a little food, when
he started off at railroad speed, bidding her
tell the clerk there would be no service that
morning. Then Henry and Lilian and the
two children sat down to a melancholy breakfast,
and the discussion of the tragedy, of
which they gathered from the servants as
much as William Grove had communicated
on the previous night, together with a fine
growth of conjecture and exaggeration.

Poor Alma ! " sighed Lilian, when her
father was gone. " Oh, Henry ! what do you
think of it ? "

I am afraid it looks rather dark," returned
Henry, not observing the entrance of Eliza
with a hot dish. " Lee's behaviour, when
last I saw him, was most unaccountable. His
trouble evidently preyed on his mind, poor
fellow."

Oh, Henry ! what do you mean ?
Not "

An unhinged mind quickly turns to
suicide," replied Henry, suddenly checking
himself as he became aware of the wide gaze
of Winnie's eyes immediately opposite him.

Five minutes after, the whole of Malbourne
knew that Dr. Everard had received the
intelligence with little surprise, and at once
ascribed it to suicide.

Cyril had started for Woodlands before
breakfast, leaving a charming note of New
Year's wishes for everybody, and saying that
it was incumbent on him to go to Woodlands
at once, to apologize for his incivility in not
meeting Marion on the previous day.

What a devoted lover ! " Mr. Maitland
had observed, on hearing the note read.

*' Well, man has but one spring-time, though
the birds renew their youth every year."

I think, papa," said Winnie, in one of
those sudden visitations of acuteness which
befall little girls occasionally, " that Cyril is
not so devoted to loving as to being loved."

And Lilian knew that the child had hit on
her brother's weak point.

After breakfast, Everard accompanied
Lilian and the children on a visit to the
invalid donkey and other dumb dependents.
It was pleasant to see Lilian in the poultry-yard.
When she entered the yard she gave
a little coo, and a flock of pigeons, preening
themselves aloft on gable and roof in the sunshine,
came fluttering down, a rustling cloud
of white wings, and settled upon her till she
seemed a parody on Lot's wife, a pillar of
birds instead of salt, while the more adventurous
fowls sprang up and pecked the grain
from her basket and her hands, till she
scattered pigeons, fowls, and all, with a light
His ! " and wave of her arms.

Everard, the children, and the two dogs

stood apart to watch this little scene, Everard
smoking tranquilly, and delighting in the
picture of Lilian involved in her cloud of
dove-like wings. During this progress he
told her eagerly of the theory which had been
born in his brain that morning, and they both
discussed it, Lilian being sufficiently grounded
in science to comprehend something of the
importance of the subject, and having, moreover,
the receptive intellect which readily
admits half-grasped notions.

"We shall have to work hard for this,"
Everard said, knowing that Lilian would
willingly take her share of the toil.

"It will be well worth hard work," she
replied joyously ; " but I have other work
now, so I must go in. No ; I have not told
mother," she added, in reply to a whispered
question from Henry ; "I would rather it
came from you."

And I have had no opportunity as yet."
he said. "So I have to skate with these
scamps, have I ? Yery well ; but join us as
soon as you can, Lilian."

VOL. I. X

"And mind you bring some cake," added
Lennie, who was nothing if not practical;
and the children, hanging one on each of
Everard's hands, danced joyously off into
Northover Park, where they were to skate
on a piece of water a quarter of a mile off.

Just as they entered the gate by the lodge,
Lyster Garrett was leaving it. He looked at
Henry with some surprise, and received his
greeting very stiffly.

Oh, do come and skate, Lyster ! " cried
Lennie ; " then you can help me, and Winnie
can have Henry to herself."

I am going to Swaynestone," Garrett
said. " This is a sad business of Lee's. Foul
play, I fear ; " and he looked searchingly at
Everard.

"Foul play?" returned Everard. "Nonsense
! Why, I suppose poor Lee never had
an enemy in his life."

He had one," said Garrett, with marked
emphasis. "I should strongly recommend
that person to make himself scarce."

Lee was not a man to make enemies, poor

fellow," replied Everard. " It will all come
out at the inquest, no doubt. Mr. Maitland
is gone to the Temple to comfort the poor
widow."

And they passed on, Everard wondering
what on earth was the matter with young
Garrett, who was studying for the Bar, and
was rather inclined to look upon human
existence as raw material to be worked up in
courts of justice.

The world doesn't look much older than
it did yesterday, Henry," observed Winnie,
thoughtfully ; " yet it's sixty-three, and
yesterday it was only sixty-two."

Henry did not reply, but looked reflectively
at the frozen landscape and clouded sky,
whence the sun had been shining half an
hour before. There was a vague misgiving
within him ; Garrett's hints flung a shroud of
dark conjecture over the Lee tragedy, which
he had forgotten for the moment. The world
did look older to him, and it seemed a whole
year since yesterday. But the pond was soon
reached, and the children's skates and his own

had to be fitted on at the expense of freezing
fingers and stagnant blood, which a few turns
in the biting air set right again. Then the
Garrett ladies appeared, and there was quite
a little party on the ice, and the children
having by this time learnt to go alone, Henry
indulged himself in some artistic skating, and
the world grew young again, aud he did not
observe that Miss Garrett and her sister
declined all his offers of assistance, and avoided
him as much as the small extent of the little
lake would permit.

I am not sure that I shall marry Ingram
Swaynestone, after all," Winnie observed to
Lilian, when she arrived with the promised
cake in an hour's time. " I think wraps I
shall have Henry when I grow up."

There was nobody in the world like
Ingram yesterday," Lilian laughed ; "so I
suppose your skating instructions have been
more successful than his, Henry."

This is rather a dismal New Year s
morning," Lilian said to Henry, who was
busily engaged in fitting on her skates.

"Those poor Lees haunt me, and the servants
say there are such dreadful surmises about
Ben's death. I wish Cyril were here. I
wonder what he is doing ? "

Cyril at that moment was in the library at
Woodlands, comfortably seated in a deep armchair
by a blazing fire. The laity of the male
kind were shooting ; Marion, and her sister,
Mrs. Whiteford, were busily employed with
the other ladies in decorations and arrangements
for the impending ball. Cyril had
taken refuge in the library with a book that
he was utterly unable to read, and was sorry
to find that George Everard had followed his
example.

The Rev. George had assumed that attitude
on the hearth rug which means conversation,
and the disposition of his coat-tails
was such as forebodes a long discourse, as
Cyril observed with inward groans. Cyril's
face was strained and haggard ; his mind was
in the tense, over-wrought condition which
craves solitude and repose ; and he racked his
brains for some pretext to escape from his

brother-clergyman, who had the advantage of
being his senior by many years, and whose
theology was of a kind to fill Cyril with
despair, since George belonged to the straightest
sect of the Evangelicals.

Mr. Everard began by commenting upon his
young brother's worn appearance, and accusing
him of fasting.

"I fasted," replied Cyril, '* because I was
too unwell to eat. And if I received the New
Year with watching and prayer, you will
surely allow that I might have done worse."

Truly. I could wish many to follow your
example, Maitland ; but not to the injury of
this fleshly tabernacle, as I fear you have
done. Such misdirected zeal amounts to
excess, and that will-worship against which
we are cautioned. You played a very poor
part at breakfast, I observed."

Cyril smiled, for he had observed, on his
part, George Everard's vigorous onslaught
upon his father's well-spread breakfast-table,
and he replied that his lack of appetite was
due to his own folly in taking a long walk

fasting after a day of headache. " Indeed,
I am thoroughly knocked up," he added
wearily.

My dear young friend," continued George,
solemnly, " I have become deeply interested
in you. I perceive that you are a very
precious vessel."

In spite of his weariness, and the strange
hunted look that made him appear to start
at every sound, as if expecting evil tidings,
Cyril's face kindled and gained an added
charm at these words. Appreciation was
the very breath of life to him, and he felt
that he had hitherto thought too slightingly
of Greorge, who perhaps, after all, could not
help being evangelical, and consequently
rather slangy in his religious conversation.
He made a graceful allusion to their impending
relationship, thanked George for his good
opinion, and expressed a hope that they
might know more of each other before long.

I have wrestled in prayer for you," continued
the elder priest. " I shall continue to
wrestle, that you may come to know the

truth, and that you may have strength to
resist the seductions of the Scarlet Woman.
I observe great powers in you — singular
powers ; powers that may effect much in the
vineyard, if you only devote them to your
Master's service ; powers which, unsanctified,
will lead you into great temptations."

I am in for it," thought Cyril, who disliked
listening to other people's sermons as
much as doctors object to taking their own
prescriptions ; " he is wound up for at least
six heads." But his face wore the most
winning expression of interest and the deference
due to one so much older in the ministry
than himself, while he replied modestly that
he was aware that some talents had been
vouchsafed him, and did not intend to hide
them in a napkin, but that he thought perhaps
his dear brother rated him too highly
in the kindness of his heart.

At which Everard smiled paternally, and
proceeded to speak of Cyril's gifts — his agreeable
manner and power of winning hearts,
his eloquence, his intellectual polish, and his

musical and flexible voice, and pointed out
to him the peculiar power these would give
him in his ministerial capacity.

Not that these mere carnal gifts are
anything in themselves," he continued ; " they
are but nets to catch men. The nets are not
necessary, but it pleases the Lord to work by
means, and those to whom much is given will
have much to answer for. In short, you have
very singular opportunities of doing good
work in the vineyard. I am thankful that
you have been moved to enter the ministry.
You might have had a more brilliant career
in a worldly calling. But what you have
undertaken is worth any sacrifice. And no
man, having once put his hand to the plough,
may dare to look back."

George Everard was not destitute of the
human weakness that leads us to believe in
the value of our own good advice, but he
would have been rather startled if he could
have known the powerful effect his words
had upon his susceptible and impulsive
listener's mind.

I have put my hand to the plough," said
Cyril, taking away the hands in which he
had buried his haggard face during this
exordium, and speaking in those deep, strong
chest-notes which so stirred the fibre of his
listeners' hearts ; "I will never turn back.
I call you to witness, George Everard, in the
face of high Heaven, that I will never turn
back, and that I will make any and every
sacrifice for the sake of this my high calling
and vocation."

Cyril rose from his seat as he spoke, and
raised one hand with an impressive gesture.
All the languor and dejection vanished from
his face and form ; a dazzle of pale blue fire
came from his eyes ; his every feature kindled;
his whole being expressed an intensity of
feeling that almost frightened Everard, who
felt something like a child playing with
matches and suddenly kindling a wood-pile.
He could only ejaculate faintly, " My dear
young friend ! " while Cyril paced the room
with firm strides and loftily erect head, a
thing of grace and spirit-like beauty, and at

last paused in front of George with such a
glance of fire as seemed to pierce through
and through the soul of the elder man, and
offered him his hand, saying, " Do you bear
me witness ? "

I do indeed," faltered the other, overcome
by the sight of an emotion beyond his
conception, accustomed though he was to a
purely sentimental form of religion ; and he
pressed Cyril's fevered hand in his own cool
one, uttering some words of prayer and
blessing, thinking that possibly one of the
sudden conversions he so constantly preached
about, and so rarely discovered any traces of
in actual life, had taken place.

Your words," said Cyril, quietly, after a
time, " were like a spark to a train of gunpowder.
They came at a moment of internal
wrestling, and helped me to a decision."

George Everard replied that he was blest
in being the unworthy instrument of speaking
a word in season, and proceeded to admonish
his convert at length ; while Cyril,
with all the fire quenched in his look and

bearing, sat drooping and haggard beneath
the cold, unimpassioned gaze of his counsellor,
busied with his own thoughts, and occasionally
smiling a little inward smile as the
well-worn phrases and various allusions to
the Scarlet Woman fell on his wearied ear.

"In conclusion, dear Cyril," George said
at length, " I must bid you beware of
women."

Cyril started and flushed, but Everard
smiled and continued —

Do not mistake me. You have hitherto
had no temptation from that source ; the
monastic discipline of your life at St. Chad's,
however mistaken, has at least that advantage.
But, my dear brother, you will
find the weaker vessels a stumbling-block
and a constant thorn in the flesh of the
Christian pastor. Our sisters have a fatal
habit of mixing personal with religious feeling."


Here he sighed deeply, and Cyril suddenly
remembered a legend to the effect that the
Rev. George, in his curate days, possessed

a large cupboard full of unworn slippers
worked by the faithful sisters of his flock.
Thinking that they love the manna furnished
them by the faithful shepherd, they
too often, and perhaps unconsciously, cherish
a tenderness for the shepherd himself, and
this leads to much that does not conduce to
edifying. Such feelings are indeed harmless ;
but, though all things are lawful unto me,
all things are not expedient, especially," he
added, with unguarded confidence, " when

one's wife is inclined to be seal Well,

you know, a young pastor should be prepared.
And let no man be too sure of himself.
Our poor sisters constantly want spiritual
advice ; let them seek it of an aged pastor.
I would counsel you, whose manners and
appearance are so strikingly calculated to
impress weaker vessels with admiration, to
confine your personal ministrations to men
and elder sisters. You will be run after asa
popular preacher, and women will be a
snare to you, as tending to bring discredit
on your calling, and giving occasion to the

enemy to blaspheme. The Christian pastor
must not only abstain from all evil, but from
all appearance of evil — nay, the remotest suspicion
of it. Our light has to shine strongly
before men."

"I feel that most keenly," replied Cyril,
roused to interest. " I feel that the lightest
imputation upon us is absolutely fatal to our
influence ; that v^^e are bound to a far stricter
life than others. By the v^ay, Everard, a
very difficult case of conscience was submitted
to our rector some years ago. There vas a
man doing good work in a parish consisting
mainly of cultured and wealthy people, a
man who had great personal influence. That
man in early youth had done a wrong,
which he bitterly repented, to atone for
which he would have given years of his life
perhaps even life itself. A girl " — Cyril
paused, and a thick, sobbing sigh caught his
breath and impeded his utterance — " a girl
had been, alas ! led astray. She died by her
own hand. Years after, when the penitent
was in the height of his usefulness, a man

who had loved this girl found him out, and
attempted to avenge the unhappy girl's death
by killing him. He attacked him in a lonely
spot, on a ledge of narrow cliff." Cyril
paused again, and moistened his parched lips,
passing his handkerchief over his damp, chill
forehead at the same time. " There was a
struggle for life — no violence on the priest's
part ; only the instinctive struggle for self-preservation
— and the would-be assassin was
hurled over the cliff to his death." Cyril
paused once more, and caught his breath
chokingly. '' No suspicion was aroused ; the
verdict was accidental death. The clergyman
gave no evidence. He went on his
usual way, and no one ever guessed that his
hand — the hand which gave the sacred
elements ! — had sent a fellow-creature to his
grave. The question which concerned our
rector was, whether the unintentional homicide
ought to have volunteered his evidence, and
confessed his involuntary share in the poor
creature's death. You see' continued Cyril,
suddenly lifting his face to his listener, " he

must have brought up the old scandal if
he had done so, and that, coupled with the
mystery about the death, would have utterly
ruined his career as a Christian pastor."

True," replied George, thoughtfully
studying the intricacies of the Turkey carpet.
How did your rector obtain possession of
these facts ? "

The poor fellow confided in him — came to
him for advice in his trouble."

And what was the advice ? "

It was never given. Agitation of mind
brought on severe illness, which proved fatal.
The rector found it difficult to arrive at any
decision. What do you think ? "

Truly, my dear young friend, the case is
perplexing. Had the question been referred
to me, I should certainly have made it a
matter of earnest prayer. As a mere abstract
question, I feel inclined to favour the erring
pastor's course of action. A revelation of
the truth would doubtless have given great
occasion to the enemy to blaspheme."

Cyril heaved a sigh of relief. " Yery

true," he replied, sinking back into the
depths of his easy-chair, whence he quickly
started in nervous tremor as the door suddenly
opened, and glanced apprehensively round,
to see nothing more terrible than the bright
face and light figure of Marion.

Oh ! here you are, you bad boys, looking
as grave as two owls," she said, in her light,
delicate treble. " George, your wife wants
you in the drawing-room at once."

The obedient husband rose immediately,
but paused lingeringly at the door. ^' We
will discuss the matter further," he said.
Cyril and I have been having the most
interesting conversation, Marion. I have
passed a refreshing morning with him. We
have more in common than I supposed."

And with an indulgent tap of his young
sister's cheek, George vanished, and left the
lovers alone, Marion charmed to find such
harmony established between the two ecclesiastics,
who bid fair at one time to differ as
only those of the same creed under slightly
varying aspects can differ.

YOL. I. T

Isn't it provoking, Cyril ? " she cried.
Here is a telegram from Leslie, to say he
cannot spare time to come to-night, and
his regiment does not embark till the third.
If any one wants to wish him good-bye,
they can run over to Portsmouth tomorrow.
I dare say, indeed ! The other officers are
coming ; but we shall be short of men, I fear."

Is that all ? " returned Cyril , with a
sigh of relief; for he had turned pale and
shuddered at the sight of the telegram.
Well, dearest, let us run over with your
father and Keppel tomorrow, and wish them
all good-bye at once. I rather envy the
admiral going on the Mediterranean station
at this murky season."

"You poor boy! " exclaimed Marion, placing
her hand upon his burning brow ; " you look
as if you needed some kind of a change. I
am afraid your head is still aching."

It is maddening," returned Cyril, detaining
the caressing hand. " To tell the truth,
I am very unwell. I ought not to have
walked this morning."

Indeed you ought not. I saw that you
were quite lame from fatigue."

And who is to blame for my walk ? "
returned Cyril, with forced gaiety ; " who
but Miss Everard ? I suppose I caught cold
in Long's gig yesterday afternoon. I had no
overcoat, meaning to walk. I feel as if I
had been beaten all over."

Poor dear ! " said Marion, tenderly.
And you actually have a little bruise here
over the temple," she added, touching the
place, which was tender even to her velvet
touch.

Oh, that's nothing ! " Cyril replied
hastily ; but he rose and approached a small
mirror, into which he gazed apprehensively.
Ah yes, I dressed in a hurry, and hit
myself With a hair-brush. And this," lie
added, pointing to a strip of plaster on his
chin, " I did in shaving."

What can we do for you ? " asked Marion.
I was going to ask you to carry some
plants from the conservatory, but you must
not."

*' Come and sit by me, dear," Cyril replied,
in his gracefully autocratic manner; "there
is no anodyne like your presence."

So the lovers remained hand-in-hand by
the library fire a good hour, Marion's bright
eyes and caressing tones worshipping Cyril,
who appreciated nothing so much as incense.

George Everard, in the mean time, was
telling his wife what unexpected graces he
had discovered .in his future brother-in-law.
A very precious soul," he said. " He only
needs Christian influence."

Mrs. , Everard knew well that, according
to the usage of her husband's tribe, the word
Christian was not applicable to either of the
Maitlandss. •%

END OP VOL. I.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIII.

When the little skating-party reached the
Rectory, Mr. Maitland had not returned from
his errand of charity, nor did he appear when
luncheon was served. The meal was delayed
half an hour, and then took place without
him. Mrs. Maitland was depressed at the
melancholy opening of the New Year, and
Henry had devoted himself to the task of
cheering and amusing her.

He read to her for a good hour before
luncheon, while Lilian wrote notes, and the
children, tired with the morning's exercise,

buried themselves in books of their own.
"The Prisoner of Chillon," for which Mrs.
Maitland had an amiable weakness, formed
part of the reading, and Henry was rewarded
for his rendering of it by the following observation
from Lennie, who had not appeared
to be listening : — " You should hear Cy wil
read that, Henry ! You can't hold a candle
to him." Whereupon Everard, in revenge,
took him up by the waistband with one hand,
and carried him out into the hall, where he
stuck him up in a niche intended for a lamp,
and whence Lennie had an uninterrupted view
through the hall window and down the village
street.

Oh, I say," he cried, " look at all those
policemen ! " and Henry, looking out, saw
a couple of blue-coated constables standing
chattering with the villagers, one group being
just outside the Rectory gate.

Don't say anything about it before your
mother, Lennie," he said, lifting the boy
down from his perch. " They are making
inquiries about Ben Lee, that's all."

They were finishing their meal, when Mr.
Maitland's step was heard in the hall, and
Lilian went out to meet him. To all her
inquiries, he said that he wished to be alone
for a little, and desired that wine and food
might be sent to the study for him.

He is a good deal upset, no doubt," commented
Mrs. Maitland. " I sometimes think,
Lilian, that your father is too sensitive for a
parish priest."

What would he be as a doctor, Mrs.
Maitland ? " Everard asked, laughing.

"Oh, Henry, we all know that only exceptionally
hard hearts can endure that profession,"
she replied, to the indignation of
Winnie, who maintained that the medical
profession induced a particular tenderness of
heart, as was manifested by the specimen
they had in Henry.

They were about to leave the dining-room,
when Eliza, in a great state of flutter, appeared
to say that Mr. Maitland wished to
see Dr. Everard in his study, whither Everard
repaired with a dim sense of impending

disaster. It was not an auspicious moment
for speaking of his engagement to Lilian,
and yet he felt that the momentous question
was about to be decided. Could it be that
Mr. Maitland had gathered some hints of his
relations with her, and wished to put an
end to it at once ? Or, was he merely
giving him an opportunity of declaring his
intentions ?

As Everard crossed the hall, Snip and
Snap ran growling before him, and barked
at an unseen figure standing outside the door.
Mark Antony also ran out with a suspicious
look and angry eyes ; but Everard was too
full of his own reflections to observe the
animals. He whistled slightly to put himself
at ease, and was ashamed to feel his heart
beating like a girl's as he paused to open the
study door. He entered, closing it behind
him.

Mr. Maitland was standing on the hearth-rug
with his back to him. Above the
mantelpiece was a fine engraving of De la
Roche's picture of the Agony of Gethsemane

a picture for ever afterwards associated in
Everard's mind with that solemn moment in
his life. The kneeling figure, awful in suffering,
trembling before an anguish beyond
human strength to endure, touched him with
a new significance ; the cup which human
nature dared not grasp, but which divine
love resolved to drain to the lees, suddenly,
lie knew not how, symbolized his life ; the
terrible struggle between spirit and flesh
became his. All in one flash these feelings
passed through him, for, as soon as the door
closed behind him, Mr. Maitland turned and
looked at him.

What is it ? " cried Henry, in low, choked
tones.

Ten years had apparently been added to
the gentle priest's age, and his haggard and
careworn air emphasized his likeness to Cyril.
But it was the look in his eyes which sent all
the blood rushing thickly to Everard's heart,
such a look of fiery anger and indignation as
seemed utterly inconsistent with his kindly
affectionate nature, a hurt look, a look of

unendurable anguish. Once before, and only
once, Henry had seen that look, and now all
the years rolled back, and he saw the painful
scene it recalled with vivid intensity. It was
the only time Mr. Maitland had ever thrashed
Cyril, an epoch in the children's lives.

Some choice fruit had been set aside fora
dying parishioner, who chanced to have
been Ben Lee's first wife, and Cyril, not
knowing it was intended for any special
purpose, and being unluckily alone in the
dining-room with it, had yielded to a temptation
he never could resist, and had eaten first
one cool juicy fruit, and then another, until the
dish was empty. In a boy of ten it was nota
grave fault, and, remorse having seized the
child just as the last peach vanished, he made
up his mind to go and confess, and receive
some light punishment or perhaps only a
rebuke. But just then inquiry was made
for the missing fruit, its intended destination
was announced in his hearing, and both
father and mother were much annoyed at its
disappearance.

All the household was interrogated, and
expressed ignorance of the matter ; and a
servant having called attention to Cyril's
proximity to the temptation, he was specially
questioned, but denied in the calmest way
having even seen such a thing as a nectarine.
Later, when the mysterious disappearance
was being discussed, Cyril expressed virtuous
indignation against the greedy thief, and at
the same moment, taking out his handkerchief,
he let fall a peach-stone, and, on being
searched, a whole handful of fruit-stones was
discovered in his pocket.

It was then that Everard saw that fiery
look in Mr. Maitland's kindly eyes. He well
remembered listening with the sobbing Lilian
in the hall, and hearing the rod in its unsparing
descent on the culprit's back, and the
pale anguish of Cyril's face when he left the
study, shamed and tearless, to throw himself
into Lilian's arms, and tell her that he wished
he had never been born. Later in the evening,
he found the children crouched together
in each other's arms, crying ; and then Cyril

told them how he had lied from fear, not so
much of punishment as of the public disgrace
of having robbed the sick. He never could
endure to be thought ill of. And now Henry
saw the same look of agony and anger in Mr.
Maitland's face, and could only ask, " What
is it ?"

Henry," the old man replied, in those
fuller tones which resembled Cyril's, and
which nothing but intense feeling could produce
in him, " I have loved you as a son."

Sir," replied Henry, " you have always
treated me as one. This house has been my
home."

I have been proud of you, Henry ; I
have valued your intellect and respected your
moral worth."

A terrible foreboding of what was coming
shot through Everard's brain. He sank into
a chair, and turned white to the lips. Mr.
Maitland remained standing, with the same
dreadful gaze fixed upon Henry, and the
sublime sorrow of Gethsemane pictured above
his head.

You must know what I have to say to
you," he continued. " Do not, I beseech you,
do not pain me by obliging me to tell you in
so many words."

I do not know what you have to say tome,"
replied Everard, in a faint voice.

You lie ! " cried Mr. Maitland.

Sir ! " exclaimed Everard, starting to his
feet.

That you should bring disgrace upon the
roof which sheltered you ! " continued Mr.
Maitland, looking in his passion more and
more like Cyril.

Sir," said Henry, with cold, hurt pride,
you presume upon your privilege as an older
man and a clergyman. You have no right
to insult me in this unwarrantable manner.
I will try not to forget that you have been
a father to me, when my own father was
unable to see much of me, and that Mrs.
Maitland I had no mother "

Thank God for that ! " remarked Mr. Maitland.
"Oh, Henry, what awful hypocrisy is
yours ! When I think of all you said about

that unhappy girl ! When I remember the
wrong we all, even his own father, did to
Ingram Swaynestone ! "

What can you mean ? " ejaculated Henry,
turning red, and then white.

Your own conscience must supply the
answer, Henry. You know how you passed
yesterday afternoon; you know that you
returned with red hands and a bruised face
to my table, to my hearth. You may yet, if
you care to escape by the kitchen door, elude
the vigilance of the police. But I do not
advise you to do so. I advise you to surrender
as quietly as possible, and I ask you,
for the sake of ancient kindness between us,
to bring as little scandal on this roof as possible.
I will go to your poor father myself,
and break the matter to him as soon as you
are gone. In the mean time, the police "

Henry burst into a laugh — a loud, harsh,
dreadful laugh, that penetrated into the
drawing-room, and startled Lilian and her
mother. " The police ! " he cried ; " what
have they to do with me ? "

They bring a warrant to arrest you on
the charge of wilful murder."

This is nonsense ! " cried Henry. " Mr.
Maitland, you cannot take the matter seriously ;
you must know that there is some absurd
mistake."

Grod help us all ! " he replied, bursting
into tears, " I wish I did ! But the evidence
against you is too clear."

Henry sat down once more, and tried to
collect his startled thoughts, and resist the
strange certainty which possessed him that
the knell of his life was already tolling. He
lifted his eyes involuntarily, and once more
they rested upon the agony which was beyond
even sinless human strength. In his own
frame he felt the strong shudder which convulses
the kneeling figure before the terrible,
inevitable cup ; a deep and solemn calm
came upon him, and he began to think more
clearly, while the fierce resentment that Mr.
Maitland's unjust suspicion kindled in him
died away into pain.

You will break it gently to my father ? "

he said quietly, after a pause. " Tell him it
is a mistake, which a few words will probably
set right."

Your poor father ! And Cyril, my poor
Cyril ; it will be a cruel blow to him ! "

I hope that — Lilian — and Mrs. Maitland —
I trust they know nothing of this ? If they
could in any way be prevented from knowing
the object of these men's presence," continued
Henry, when he was interrupted by a knock
at the door.

It was Eliza, with the inspector and two
policemen behind her.

Come in," said Everard ; and they entered
and formally arrested him.

And the quieter you go the better, sir,"
observed the inspector. " The fly is waiting-just
outside the gate in the road."

Must I go through the hall ? " asked
Everard.

I fear there is no other course," returned
Mr. Maitland.

I will just go and account for my sudden
departure to the ladies," said Everard ; but
the inspector, who had taken certain steel

implements from his pocket, while one of the
men stood before the door, here informed him
that he could not go without his escort and
those same glittering ornaments, which he
proceeded to adjust to Henry's wrists with the
dexterity of long practice.

Like one in a dream, Henry submitted to
this ignominy, and saw Mr. Titian d step
across the hall and carefully close the 
door, while Eliza fetched his hat
and coat ; and thus, without any farewell, he
walked out of the familiar doors, observing
as he went the three troubled pets, the dogs
giving vent to occasional reproachful growLs,
and the cat stalking uneasily about, and
uttering a plaintive mew as he passed him ;
and he felt the unaccustomed touch of steel
on his wrists, and half wondered at the
strange proximity of the policemen on either
side of him. As he stepped out on the
gravelled drive, he was startled to see a little
figure with a white face spring forwards
and leap to his arms. It was poor little
Winnie. He bent down and kissed her.

Don't be frightened, darling ; T shall
soon be back. It is only a mistake," he said,
touched by this incident, and Mark Antony's
sympathetic mew ; " tell Lilian it is a mistake."


He could see Lilian through the side of the
bay-window of the drawing-room. Her face
was turned from him, and she was tranquilly
reading the morning paper, which did not
reach sequestered Mai bourne till that late
hour; nevertheless, he was glad when he
was outside the gate, and safely hidden from
her sight in the fly.

The village was full of life; the whole
population had apparently turned out, open-mouthed
and interjectional, to see and discuss
the extraordinary proceeding. On a little
patch of green Everard saw Lennie, with
his jacket off, engaged in fighting with
Dickie Stevens, who was apparently getting
the worst of it, and was, indeed, finally
vanquished after a severe battle. The unlucky
Dickie had alluded in plain and unvarnished
terms to the end which probably awaited

Dr. Everard in consequence of his imputed
crime ; hence the battle.

The forge was blazing away, but the clink
of the hammer was unheard. Straun had left
his iron half shaped on the anvil, and stood
outside, bare-armed and grimy, ready to pull
off his brown-paper cap when the fly passed ;
and Granter leant against the sill of the
opened window, with a countenance expressive
of the deepest wisdom, and shook his
head ominously. It was not for a man of
his knowledge and sagacity to betray surprise
; he had evidently foreseen and predicted
the event, and knew more about its probable
termination than it was prudent to reveal.
The usual village parliament was grouped
around him, with its hands chiefly in its
pockets, and its countenance distraught ; but
no cap was lifted when the fly passed save
Straun's. That and a curtsey from a little
girl, and a slow and solemn salute from Tom
Hale, who was drawn up at the corner of the
wheelwright's yard with a stillness and precision
which suggested the presence of the

VOL. II.

I

whole British army, alone greeted the fallen
man.

The news of Lee's death did not reach
Woodlands till the afternoon, when it was
bruited about among the servants, one of
whom had caught various strange rumours
in Oldport. It floated up to the drawing-room,
where it aroused but a tepid interest,
save in Marion. Cyril agreed with her that
it was very sad and shocking, but expressed
little surprise, or, indeed, interest.

He was very restless, and, as the afternoon
wore on, left Marion, and wandered aimlessly
about, in spite of the fatigue and illness of
which he complained. Every sound startled
him, and he kept looking expectantly towards
the gates, till about four o'clock, when the
noise of wheels caught his tense hearing, and
he saw his father drive up to the door in the
little pony-chaise. He made one step forwards
to meet him, and then he went back, and,
passing behind some laurels, which effectually
screened him, went towards the back of the
house, and paced up and down on a terrace.

which commanded a view of the grey sea,
turning his head constantly towards the
house, whence he expected a summons.

Some ten minutes passed, and no one sought
him. To Cyril it was an eternity. His nervous
agitation became unbearable ; he was
consumed with inward fever. Nothing was
heard in the chill winter afternoon, save the
heavy boom of the ground-swell, which filled
all the air with a sullen, steady roar, a roar
which confused Cyril's senses with its unceasing
thunder, and seemed full of menace
to him. The sea, which was about half a
mile from the grounds, was coldly grey, and
looked, with its calm breadth of unruffled
surface, like a sheet of steel. The sky also
was steely grey, save in the west, where the
departed sun had left some pearl and opal
gleams in the cloud-rifts ; there was no wind,
and the frost still held. Cyril bared his hot
forehead to the still winter air, and some
broken words of prayer escaped him.

I would have atoned," he murmured — " I
would have atoned at any price, but it was

not possible ; the wrong is irreparable. Take
Thou the will and the broken heart of contrition."


Then some sound smote upon his hearing
above the august thunder of the unquiet sea,
and he replaced his hat and turned towards
the house. But no one came forth, and the
sea went on booming heavily as before, only,
to Cyril's vexed spirit, it seemed that its
hoarse roar rose to a deafening intensity, like
the trouble in his breast.

If it were but over ! " he murmured. " I
cannot endure this suspense ; " and he turned,
half staggering, and entered the conservatory,
where he was still alone. He felt very ill,
and wondered if some deadly sickness were
about to fall on him. Body and mind alike
seemed failing under the heavy burden he
bore. He leant his elbows on a bench and
supported his head on his hands, gazing
through some bright flowers out on the
pitiless sea, and sighed out that he could not
bear it, that he wished all were over, and
himself at rest from the dreadful stress of life.

A sharp priming-knife lay near him ; his
eye rested longingly upon it, and he thought
how easily it would still the terrible tumult
within. No pain ; only a pin-prick, as it
were — he knew exactly where to strike ;
Everard showed him one day when they were
discussing the subject — then a bright, warm
jet of blood ; a growing languor, deepening
into an eternal sleep. He put forth his hand
and touched the knife, even felt its edge, and
then dropped it with a shudder, and betook
himself to prayer. And in his prayer he
vowed a passionate vow, were he once delivered
from this impending terror, to consecrate
his life anew to his great and sacred
calling, and to devote body, soul, and spirit
with unsparing vigour to that one supreme
cause. Calm fell upon him then, and he
heard the footsteps of the approaching messenger
with a serene face. It was only a
servant, with a quiet, everyday countenance.

'' The admiral wishes to see you in the
library at once, sir," he said.

The admiral ! Cyril turned sick. Why

not his own father ? Was it so bad as that ?
He walked, however, quietly through the
darkening house, and entered the well-known
door of the library with a calm face. A
servant had just placed a lamp on a table
before the fire, the ruddy blaze of which
danced over the room with fantastic cheerfulness.
George and Keppel were standing
on the hearth rug, asking each other what
had happened. Their presence steadied
Cyril, and conveyed a vague comfort to him.

I say, Cyril," observed Keppel, in his
strong, cheery voice, '^ there's a row of some
kind ; all hands piped. What the deuce is
your governor up to ? "

The door of an inner room, the admiral's
special sanctuary, opened, and he came forth,
accompanied by Mr. Maitland, who was too
troubled to exchange any greeting with the
young men.

'' Well, my lads," said the admiral, standing
with his back to the fireplace, and
plunging at once into the subject, " here's
the devil to pay. Maitland says that

Swaynestone's coachman was murdered last
night "

Murdered ! " cried Cyril, springing from
the chair into which he had dropped his
weary, aching frame.

*' Murdered ! " echoed Greorge and Keppel,
in varying degrees of horror.

My dear Everard," interposed Mr. Maitland,
" you are so precipitate. Spare the
young men ; break it gently."

Gently ! By George, Maitland, murder
is murder, and a damned ugly thing, however
you break it ! " retorted the honest
admiral, who had by no means enjoyed Mr.
Maitland's kind endeavours to break it gently.
The women will have to be told ; somebody
had better break it to them," he added, passing
his hand thoughtfully over his fresh-coloured,
weather-beaten face, while Cyril
shuddered with a sick apprehension. " It's
no use beating about the bush, lads," he continued,
in his impetuous manner ; " the long
and the short of it is, Henry is arrested for
murder."

Henry ! " cried the three. " By Jove ! "
added Keppel ; " My dear father ! " added
George ; while Cyril burst into a hysteric
laugh. " Nonsense ! the thing is impossible,
absurd, ridiculous. What ass arrested him?"
he burst out.

Stand by, Cyril. You side with your
friend, of course. Hear the rest. Tell them,
Maitland," expostulated the admiral.

Do you mean to say, sir, that you think
him guilty ? " asked Keppel, fiercely.

My dear Keppel," returned Mr. Maitland.
" I would give the remainder of my
life not to believe it. I have passed the
whole morning with Sir Lionel, and I have
heard such evidence as places it beyond a
doubt."

Keppel swore steadily and intensely for
some seconds, while George quoted Scripture
at the same rate. Mr. Maitland thought that
of the two he preferred Keppel's observations.
Cyril dropped into an arm-chair, and
his head sunk upon his breast.

Steady, lad, steady ! " exclaimed the

admiral, approaching him. " We must stand
to our guns."

Brandy," murmured Cyril, faintly.

He has Been ill," said Mr. Maitland,
apologizing for his son's weakness ; while
the admiral plunged into his sanctuary, and
issued thence bearing some excellent rum
in a little glass, and poured it into Cyril's
white lips.

What the deuce did you mean by swearing
before the clergy, Keppel ? " he asked,
while doing this kind office.

I am unwell ; I have a heavy cold,"
gasped Cyril, reviving. " It is nonsense
about Henry. Where is he ? "

We must bail him at once," said Keppel,
when he heard that his brother was actually
in custody at that moment ; but Mr. Maitland
reminded him that this course was impossible,
while George groaned and observed
parenthetically that Henry needed a fall to
bring him to a serious state of mind.

Serious ! " echoed the admiral. " You
may depend upon it, the poor beggar feels

serious enough. Well, he was the only boy
I never flogged of you, all. He was such a
little chap when his poor mother Damnation,
George ! if you spare the rod you spoil
the child ! " cried the poor man, turning aside
to dash a couple of tears from his eyes,
The Bible tells you that."

True, most true," returned George, conscious
of having received a Benjamin's portion
of the paternal rod.

The question is, what is to be done ? "
said the practical Keppel, who was pacing
the library with a wide balance of limb, as
if the carpet were liable to rise in waves and
upset him.

Exactly," returned the admiral, with an
air of relief. " How. can we get him out of
this hole, Maitland ? We must spend all
we've got to get him off and save the family
honour. What's the first step ? To London
for a lawyer ? And I sail on the third,
and so does Keppel ; and then Leslie is off to
India. By Jove ! it's the devil's own luck ;
nobody but a parson left to look after the

family, and I put Greorge into the Church —
meaning no disrespect, gentlemen — because
he was the fool of the family."

It is too ridiculous to take this seriously,"
said Cyril. " The inquest will, of course, set
Henry free. He will prove an alii, or these
thick-headed rustics will have sufficient sense
to bring in a verdict of accidental death.
What more probable than that Lee — in
trouble, and probably a little tipsy — should
slip in a wood on a dark night and fall
heavily ? ' '

But," replied Mr. Maitland, who did
not remember that Cyril could have heard
nothing about a wood, " a man cannot drag
himself for yards into the underwood after
receiving a mortal blow on the head."

'' Who says he was dragged ? " asked Cyril,
quickly.

There are the marks on the frosted moss
and grass. I saw them myself," said his
father ; and he went on to place further
evidence before them, while Cyril listened
with a beating heart and gathering dread.

Good heavens ! " he cried at last, " don't
you all see that it is morally impossible fora
man of Henry's character to commit such
a crime ? Even if Lee were killed, Henry
had no hand in it."

Henry is as honest a fellow as ever
stepped, Cyril," said Keppel ; "but, you see,
women are the very deuce. The best of men
may be led on to anything, once he gets
hung up in an affair of that kind."

An excuse as old as Adam's iniquity,"
sighed Mr. Maitland.

Henry had nothing to do with that miserable
business," cried Cyril ; "I would stake
my life on it."

Stand up for your friend, my lad," said
the admiral. " He would be a doctor ; and
I won't deny that a surgeon is useful after a
general engagement ; but then, he would not
even enter the service. Doctoring is bad for
the morals ; all this poking and prying into
dead bodies is an infernal business not fit fora
gentleman. Those very clever doctors area
bad lot, most of them in league with the

devil. George said in his last sermon that
the Almighty sends sickness as a punishment
for sin, and it is a clear flying in the face of
Providence to make people healthy."

My dear father ! " remonstrated George,
who was not prepared for such an application
of his sermon, flattering though it were.

Yes, yes, you said so in the pulpit, and
you are not in the pulpit now," proceeded the
admiral, with a fine distinction between the
preacher and the man. " Now for action, lads.
When does this damned thing take place,
Maitland ? "

The inquest will be held tomorrow, admiral
; but the verdict may not be given for
some days. In the mean time, we must try
to get all the evidence in Henry's favour that
we can. Lilian saw him return, but refuses
to swear to it. She actually disbelieves the
evidence of her senses."

Poor Lilian," murmured Cyril, with a
kind of sob.

Oh, the women ! " groaned the admiral.
George, go and break it ; it is parson's

work. Poor little Marion ! you had better
tackle her, Cyril."

'^ A solicitor must be procured to watch
the case on Henry's behalf at the inquest,"
said Mr. Maitland. " I suppose Weston
would be the man ; he is your man of business,
I think."

Just so," replied the admiral, instantly
ringing the bell to order a carriage. " I'll
go at once. By Greorge ! I had forgotten the
dance. Half the county' will be here in a
couple of hours.'

The consultation was at an end, and the
meeting broke up, and Cyril, with a strange
feeling of relief, went to Marion and told
her what had occurred, while George did the
same with the other ladies, who somehow
had the tidings conveyed to the people
staying in the house.

Breaking the news to Marion was not all
pain ; in fact, it brought a wonderful solace
to Cyril's troubled soul. He spent the evening
alone with her, and so exerted himself to
convince her of her brother's perfect innocence

and probable speedy release, that he
went to bed with a lightened heart, and slept
as no one else slept that night beneath the
admiral's roof, the sleep of exhaustion, dreamless
and perfect as that of an infant.

CHAPTER XIV.

In those days of unutterable amazement,
Everard began to doubt bis own identity.
On the first day of the inquest he received an
affectionate letter from Cyril, treating the
affair of his imprisonment as a mistake,
which a brief investigation would speedily
clear up.

Then came the succession of surprises which
the inquest brought, as witness after witness
came forward and swore to actions of his
which he had never so much as contemplated
in imagination.

After the evidence of those who discovered
poor Lee, and that of the surgeon, Mrs. Lee
was the first witness. She last saw her husband
alive at dinner-time, after which he left
her to return to the stables, she said. She

left the Temple for Malbourne soon after three,
and on returning through the fields at about
a quarter to five, she saw Dr. Everard spring-over
a hurdle leading into the fatal copse,
and walk hurriedly along towards Malbourne.
Although the moon was but just risen, she
made him out distinctly by his grey suit.
He had no stick in his hand, and, though he
passed within half a dozen yards, did not
appear to see her, and took no notice of her
salutation. Her husband was a steady and
sober man, but had of late been much depressed
on account of family troubles ; had
been especially vexed at dinner-time, and had
eaten little. When asked what had distressed
Lee, she replied that he had some difference
with his daughter, whom he had discovered
with Dr. Everard at midday.

Sir Lionel Swaynestone stated that he had
last seen Lee at eleven in the forenoon ; had
known him all his life as a sober and industrious
man and good servant.

Judkins described the hour and manner of
his finding Lee's body. He had last seen

VOL. II. D

him alive at three o'clock, when Lee told
him that Dr. Everard would he somewhere
near the Temple that afternoon, and that
he intended, if possible, to meet him, and
threaten him with exposure unless he consented
to repair the wrong he had done his
child.

Everard's solicitor here interposed to ask
the nature of that wrong, and Lee's grounds
for suspecting Everard of it, when, to his own
deep amazement, as well as Everard's, he was
told that Everard and Alma had been seen
together in the copse by both Lee and Judkins
on the very morning of Lee's death ; aud,
further, that he, Judkins, had witnessed
several clandestine meetings between them
during Mrs. Lee's illness in the spring. In
the subsequent examination before the magistrates,
Judkins further witnessed to meetings
at specified times, and to gifts of flowers exchanged
between Everard and Alma. A book
of poems, found in Everard's room at the
Rectory, was produced, inscribed, " For Alma
Lee, with best New Year's wishes, from

H. E." Judkins also swore that letters had
passed between them.

The solicitor having asked Judkins if Lee
had not threatened violence towards Everard,
he replied that he only threatened to assault
the prisoner in case he refused to do justice to
his daughter.

Judkins further deposed that, on returning
from the downs with some horses he had
been exercising at a little after four on the
fatal afternoon, he had seen the prisoner enter
the copse. On being subsequently asked by
Everard how he had missed Mr. Swaynestone,
who was riding towards the downs at the
same time, he replied that he had drawn up
for some minutes behind a screen of hazels,
while Mr. Swaynestone was passing in the
open. He did not until the trial add that
he did this to watch the meeting of the grey
figure with Alma.

John Nobs, a stable-help, deposed to
parting with Lee on the high-road outside the
gate at three o'clock ; the witness was starting
for Oldport on foot, Lee walked up the

meadow towards his home. Lee carried no
stick, and was quite sober.

Several Swaynestone servants witnessed
having seen Lee about the place before three
o'clock ; after which hour no one appeared to
have seen him alive.

Ingram Swaynestone bore witness to Lee's
character; he last saw him alive at the
stables at two o'clock. At twenty minutes
past four, or thereabouts, Ingram rode
across the meadow in which the Temple
stood, at a canter, on his way across the
downs to Shotover, when he saw Everard
walking quickly along a hedgerow in the
direction of Temple Copse. He was dressed in
grey, carried a stick, aud made no reply to
Swaynestone's shouted greeting, beyond a
wave of his hand. On returning through
Malbourne, at ten minutes to five, Sandstone
again saw Everard walking in the
moonlight across a field, at the corner of
which the Malbourne sign-post stood. He
reined in his horse, and called out to him ;
but Everard went hurriedly on, not appearing

to see or hear him. The road was some fifty
yards from the path Everard was pursuing,
and the field was higher than the road.

William Grove had seen Everard at the
same place and time. He expressed wonder
to Jim, his mate, that Dr. Everard, at the
sound of the waggon-bells — since he was
then returning from Oldport with his team
and his own " Good night, doctor," did not
come to receive a parcel the waggoner was
bringing him from Oldport, and respecting
the instant delivery of which he had been most
solicitous. All this Jim Downer corroborated.

Stevens, the sexton, said that about sunset,
or later, he was in the churchyard, and saw a
figure in a grey suit, which he recognized as
Dr. Everard's, leave the back premises of the
Eectory, and ascend the hill in the direction
of Swaynestone. He carried a stick.

Straun, the blacksmith, on the other hand,
swore that he saw Everard pass through the
village street by the forge at that hour, or a
little before. He was uncertain about his
clothes, but swore to the stick.

A Swaynestone keeper saw Everard a little
later in a plantation on the upland. He
described his grey suit and stick ; he was not
near enough to speak to him. A shepherd,
cutting turnips in a field near, swore that
Everard passed him at four o'clock, and
stopped a moment to chat with him. He was
not sure about his clothes ; thought they were
grey. Everard had a stick, also some very
good tobacco, of which he gave him some.
He told the shepherd that he was going
across the downs to Widow Dove's. Dr.
Everard wondered that two lone women
should live up there in the solitary cottage,
he said.

Eliza, the parlour-maid, bore witness that
Everard was at the Rectory between three
and four ; he was in the drawing-room with
her mistress when she showed some visitors
in. She saw him no more till about five,
when he entered softly and hurriedly by the
back door, and ran across the back hall in the
dusk. Miss Maitland was leaving the kitchen
at that time, and also saw Dr. Everard, whose

figure was clearly shown by the light issuing
from the kitchen. Miss Maitland called to
him, " Henry, was Mrs. Dove at home ? " but
he made no answer, ran upstairs and locked
himself in. The cook also saw Dr. Everard
at that hour, and heard Miss Maitland speak to
him. Miss Maitland was rebuking the witness
for not having lighted the hall lamp. Eliza
next saw Everard an hour later. He came
into the kitchen with his hand to his face,
and asked the cook for some raw meat to save
him from a black eye. Martha, the housemaid,
said, " Oh, sir, what an eye you will
have ! " He replied, " I hope not ; there is
nothing like raw meat." Cook laughed, and
said, " One would think you had been in the
wars, sir. Have you had a fall ? " He
seemed confused, and said, " I don't know.
At least, I ran up against a tree in the dark."
At dinner, he told Mr. Maitland that he
knocked his face against a door, and made
signs to Miss Winnie not to tell. When he
came into the kitchen, Eliza heard him say
something to Miss Winnie about not telling.

He seemed excited and confused at dinner.
This evidence of Eliza's, given briefly at the
inquest, only came out in full at the trial in
Oldport Town Hall, when it was corroborated
by the other maids.

Granter was produced on the second day of
the inquiry, and, with an irrepressible circumlocution
which nearly drove the jury beside
themselves, witnessed meeting Henry at the
wheelwright's corner at five o'clock ; he was
inclined to believe that he wore the fatal grey
suit, since he and Straun and several others
had seen and commented on it in the forenoon.

What bewildered Everard most was the
evidence of things against him. The housemaid
witnessed, with tears, to finding bloody
water in his hand-basin, and seeing the garments
hanging to dry. The suit was produced,
and bore other stains, which Henry
had not observed by candle-light. He saw
stains of earth, as well as those darker marks ;
bits of moss and dead leaves caught in the
rough woollen material ; the badly sponged
spot he had seen at midday ; and, more

surprising still, a slight rent at the arm-hole,
as if the sleeve had been torn in a
struggle.

Buried among dead leaves and moss, the
police found a handkerchief of Everard's,
bearing the ominous crimson stains. Farther
off, among thick holly-bushes, they found a
stick, which the doctor said might have dealt
the fatal blow. Mr. Maitland identified the
stick — a thick bamboo, with a loaded top —
as his property. It remained usually in the
hall, and was used by the family generally.
Everard had taken it in the forenoon on his
walk with the twins, as many people could
witness. In Lee's pocket they found the
two halves of the letter Alma had dropped in
the forenoon. It was written on good notepaper,
from the top of which an embossed
heading had been hastily torn, so hastily that
some of the end letters remained thus : ^^'^J^^.
Similar paper was taken from a blotting-case
used chiefly by visitors with the full address,
The Eectory, Malbourne." The handwriting,
evidently feigned, was afterwards submitted

to an expert, and compared with various
specimens of Everard's writing.

Lee's watch, purse, etc., were found upon
him ; and, what puzzled Everard strangely,
a leather bag, containing fifty pounds in
gold, which had been stamped upon by a
heavy foot, was found on the hard path some
yards from the body. It was impossible to
identify this, as it had no marks, and was
one of those commonly used by bankers to
serve their customers with gold ; it was
evidently, from its dull grey colour, an old
one, which had passed through many hands.
At the subsequent trial it was suggested that
this money, so carefully arranged to defy
identification, had been offered to Lee as the
price of his silence, and by him indignantly
rejected, and had been forgotten by the
criminal in his agitation after the deed.

Everard's own statement was simple
enough. He could merely say that, wearing
the clothes in which he then stood, a
prisoner, he had left the Rectory at about
sundown — the exact hour he had not observed

and, passing through the village, where he
exchanged a brief salutation with Straun,
who was standing alone outside the forge,
which was closed for the night, had walked
through the fields as far as the fatal copse.
There he had turned off and struck across
the down to the solitary cottage known far
and near as Widow Dove's. He remembered
meeting no one save the shepherd, but had
seen a man exercising two horses in the
distance when on the open down. He was
not near enough to recognize the rider, but
concluded that he was a groom from Sandstone
or Northover.

He found the widow's hut empty, with no
smoke issuing from the chimney, and no light
in either window, and returned by a different
path, which he described, meeting no human
being till he descended into the high-road at
Malbourne Cross, and spoke to Grranfer (whose
legal designation was Isaac Hale, by the way) ;
he did not remember what he said at this
interview, save that he asked if Long's bell-team
had passed. Going on in the dark to

Long's farm, which was approached by a
broad at right angles to the highway, he
found a little girl sitting on the doorstep of
Grove's cottage, which was just outside the
farm gate, and learnt from her that Grove
was gone to the Rectory with a parcel.

His return at six, his romp with Winnie, and
its consequences, he described ; and, although
cautioned that what he said would be put in
evidence against him, deposed to finding
blood on his clothes, and sponging it away,
but expressed himself unable to account for
its presence. He had never quarrelled with
Lee, whom he had known and respected all
his life. He had last seen him alive on
Sunday in church, and had last spoken to
him on the previous Saturday. He was too
indignant at the imputation respecting Alma
to deny it, but he denied having met her on
the 31st, admitting that he was in the copse
at the alleged hour, but saying nothing
about Lilian being with him, since he could
not endure the idea of dragging her name
into such associations. He heard of Lee's

death first on the morning of New Year's
Day.

He almost smiled when, at the close of the
wearisome inquiry, the jury returned a
verdict of Wilful Murder against him.

Admiral Everard and Keppel received the
intelligence by telegram just as the squadron
was leaving Spithead. Leslie was already
on his way to India, and so heard nothing.

The examination before the magistrates
seemed to Everard but a weary repetition of
the inquest nightmare.

The same witnesses appeared with the
same evidence in fuller detail. The surgeon,
a Dr. Eastbrook, who had attended the
Swaynestone people ever since he began to
practice, confirmed the evidence touching
Lee's good health and regular and abstemious
habits, and was borne out by a second
surgeon, who had assisted him in a postmortem
examination. Both surgeons witnessed
to contusions and other signs of
struggle ; they were unanimous in ascribing
the death to a blow not self-inflicted, and

both were of opinion that Lee's assailant
must have been a man of considerable
muscular power, Lee himself being a powerful
man scarcely past the prime of life. In
cross-examination, they admitted that a knowledge
of anatomy would indicate the part
behind the ear as one for a fatal blow. Poor
Mr. Maitland gave evidence to Henry's spotless
character, and was much dismayed at
finding himself led into giving damaging
statements of Everard's extreme eagerness
to attend Mrs. Lee in the previous spring,
and his frequent visits to the Temple. He
was equally dismayed at the damaging effect
of his evidence touching Everard's demeanour
at dinner with regard to the black eye.
Granter also contrived to effect a little more
mischief in the town hall.

Granter was disgusted to observe that Sir
Lionel, who was a witness, was not on the
bench, and that a mere lad of some forty
summers, a pompous man of commercial
extraction, for whom the old aristocrat had
the heartiest contempt, played the leading

part on that august eminence. He therefore
put on his most stolid look, and acted as if
extremely hard of hearing as well as comprehension,
and contrived to impress Mr. Browne-stockholm
with the idea that he was past
giving evidence. The magistrate, moreover,
was fully impressed with a conviction of
Everard's guilt, which impression he had
derived from Sir Lionel, who was furious
with indignation at the guilt and hypocrisy
which had brought about the tragedy, and
had made him accuse and suspect his own
son amid all kinds of domestic discord, and
was disposed to believe anything of the man
who sat at his board one day and killed his
beloved and trusted servant the next. Mr.
Browne-stockholm, therefore, after many vain
attempts, succeeded in getting Granter, whose
mental impenetrability caused innumerable
titters in the court, to reply to his question
if he understood the nature of an oath.

A oath," returned Granter at last, with
an air of matchless vacuity, " a oath," he
repeated in his slow way, as he scratched his

head and slowly looked round the court —
"ay, I reckon I understand the nature of
they. I've a yeerd more oaths in a hour
than you could swear in a day. Ay," he
continued after a pause, during which an
explosion of laughter from the court was
angrily subdued, and looking more helplessly
vacant than ever, "• my master was the
wearies man you ever see. I've a yeerd more
oaths than you've got zuvverins adore you
was barnet — or thought on, for that matter,"
he added, with a sudden gleam of inane self-complacency
in the eyes he directed upon the
indignant magistrate, who muttered that the
old fool was in his dotage, while the court
again exploded with laughter, as courts so
easily do.

Do you know," Mr. Browne-stockholm
asked, in his most pompous manner, when
order was once more restored, " in whose
presence you stand ? "

Granter once more looked round in his
slow way, with an expression half-way
between an owl and an idiot, and replied,

without the faintest quiver of a muscle, " I
ain't a seen none of 'em adore, as I knows
on ; athout," he added, brightening up suddenly,
" athout it's Sir Lionel. I knows he
well enough. Snowed his rather adore 'un.
Yine figure of a man he was."

Here Granter's evidence was lost in such
a roar that the magistrate was driven to the
verge of frenzy, and threatened to clear the
court. Finally, Isaac Hale, aged ninety-six,
was duly sworn, and was rather severely
handled while giving his evidence as to his
meeting Everard at five o'clock, the very
hour at which the maids swore to his return
by the back way to the Eectory.

Everard had given him a shilling to drink
his health with, he said, and had further
bestowed some tobacco upon him. For the
consideration of a shilling, it was suggested,
an aged rustic might well make a
mistake as to the exact hour of meeting a
friend on the highway. Mr. Browne-stockholm,
moreover, was convinced, from
Granter's Brutus-like affectation of imbecility

VOL. IL E

later on, that the old man was in collusion
with the accused.

Mrs. Lee and Judkins both bore witness to
the exchange of high words between Everard
and Lee at their chance meeting on the
Saturday, Lee having gone home in great
excitement, and told them that he had
forbidden Everard his house. Cyril was
summoned to confirm these statements.
There was no quarrel, Cyril said on his
oath, but Lee seemed annoyed, neither of
them knew why, and forbade Everard his
house ; they supposed him to be under the
influence of drink.

Here the counsel for the prosecution took
Cyril up sharply, and asked what grounds he
had for such a supposition with regard to a
man whose sobriety was well known ; and,
altogether, Cyril's evidence was severely
tested and reduced to powder. He sat down
with the despairing conviction that he had
done Everard as much damage as possible.

Lilian's evidence, however, had a worse
effect even than his. She had tried to avoid

admitting her glimpse of the grey figure
at dusk, but in vain. The maids swore
that she had both seen and spoken to the
supposed Everard, and she was placed in the
cruel position of having to swear for or
against an apparition, which she believed to
be some trick of the senses and imagination
and which she could in honest truth neither
affirm nor deny. Placed in the witness-box,
she could only say that she thought she saw
a grey figure flit by in the dusk, and that
she spoke under the impression that it was
Dr. Everard, but believed herself to have been
mistaken. Pressed for a reason for doubting
his identity, she could only give his silence
when spoken to, and his subsequent denial at
dinner of having come in at that hour, and it
required no very keen intelligence to discover
that Lilian wished to disbelieve in the apparition.
She volunteered evidence as to the
alleged meeting with Alma at midday, stating
that she was with Everard the whole time,
and that they had seen no human being
besides themselves.

Sir. Of tames

It did not follow from this, as was observed,
that Alma was not there, as Mrs. Lee
and Jiidkins had sworn, or that Everard
had not intended to meet her at that hour,
had he been able to be alone. Alma was
not in a condition even to make a deposition
on her bed of sickness, since she continued
more or less delirious for some weeks
after her father's death ; but her evidence
was not deemed of sufficient consequence to
justify a postponement of the trial, which,
after a quantity of evidence which it would
be tedious to detail, ended in a repetition of
the coroner's verdict; and Henry, doubting
whether there were any longer a solid earth
to stand on or a just Heaven to appeal to,
found himself committed for trial at the next
assizes on the capital charge.

CHAPTER XY.

Cyril's direst anticipations had not reached
a capital conviction, though he had feared
manslaughter, and even Sir Lionel Sandstone
had his doubts as to the justice of the
graver charge. Oldport public opinion,
which was naturally stirred to its depths,
was divided between the two ; of the accused's
innocence it had not the slightest suspicion.
The little town was Liberal, not to say
Radical, in its politics, and disposed to think
the worst of a gentleman in his dealings with
those beneath him.

Few people had a good word for a medical
man of good birth, who was said to have
taken advantage of both rank and profession
to work such cruel harm as that imputed
to Everard. The medical profession,

strangely enough, has never been popular,
skill in the healing art being usually attributed
by the unlearned to the favour of the
Evil One : a clever physician is prized and
feared, but rarely loved. Even among the
cultured there still lingers a faint repulsion
for the man who is the only welcome guest
in the day of sickness and peril, and society
is only just beginning to honour the cultivated
intellect and recognize the social value of the
doctor.

The case of William Palmer, the notorious
poisoner, was then fresh in people's minds,
and the ease and impunity with which a
skilful physician can become a murderer had
awakened something of the old superstitious
horror of the doctor's occult knowledge in
the public imagination. Brown e-Stockham
and his colleague, a retired merchant of
limited intellect and still more limited knowledge,
and whose birth and liberal politics
prejudiced him against Everard as a scion
of a good old Tory family, were both strongly
prepossessed against the innocence of a doctor

who had manifested such unaccountable eagerness
to get a footing in a humble family under
pretence of exercising his skill. Dr. Eastbrook
had been ready and willing to attend Mrs. Lee
as usual in the preceding spring, as his
evidence stated ; Dr. E gerard had asked leave
to attend with him, because it was an unusual
and very interesting case, a thing
neither magistrates nor coroner's jury could
understand.

Dr. Eastbrook, an older man, and too busy
to be very eager about unusual cases, was
not sorry to have Everard's help, since the
case required more frequent visits than he
could conveniently give, and finally he gave
up the case to him altogether. This the
public mind could conceive ; but Everard's
great eagerness and assiduous watching of the
sick woman, needed some motive to account
for it. What motive could there be save
that sinister one of seeing Alma constantly
and alone ? Thus many prejudices gathered
together to precipitate Everard's doom, and
although the prejudice of class was not so

strong against him before the judge and jury
at the assizes, yet there his profession exposed
him to as great disfavour.

Everard once discussed with Cyril the
subject of the doctor's small popularity as
compared with the clergyman's, and Cyril
accounted for it partly by the usefulness of
the surgeon. '' Clergymen," he observed, in
one of those bursts of ingenuous satire that
delighted Everard, " are of no use save at two
or three august moments of life — when a man
dies, gets married, or is born — therefore they
inspire popular reverence as belonging to the
ornamental and superfluous portion of existence
— its fringes, so to speak. Doctors, on
the contrary, cannot be dispensed with ; their
services are needed and obtained on the most
homely occasions, and men never reverence
the indispensable. Bread and cheese is
taken as a matter of course, but the champagne
of festivals is thought much of."

Cyril often affected a cynicism which
amused Everard the more from its contrast
with his supposed character.

It was difficult to move through the dense
crowd which gathered round the Oldport
Town Hall when Everard issued from it at
the conclusion of the magistrates' inquiry,
and public opinion expressed itself in hisses
and groans as the vehicle in which he was
being conveyed moved slowly, and not without
some effort on the part of the guard of
police, through the square.

Not every day was there such an exciting
event as an examination for murder in the
town hall, nor was it often that a culprit of
such high social standing appeared in the
well-known dock. The little town wore quite
a festal air. Street-musicians and barrows
laden with nuts, oranges, and ginger-beer
drove a thriving trade ; and there was not a
bar at public-house or hotel in the place which
did not receive an access of custom during the
inquiry. Nothing else was talked of, and
the experiences of ages has shown that when
mankind talk they must drink something
more inspiriting than water ; also that when
they drink that something they invariably

talk in proportion to its inspiriting qualities.
Tea-tables are supposed to be the great
centres of gossip, and their female devotees
its high priestesses. This is a popular fallacy.
The ladies bear their part valiantly, but they
cannot match the men. From the West End
club down to the humblest public-house, male
coteries are the great sources of social information,
which arrives in a weakened secondhand
form at the female tea-board, where,
indeed, it is frequently robbed for obvious
reasons of its most racy characteristics.

On the evening after the termination of
the great murder case, the pleasant bow-windowed
room behind the bar at Burton's
Hotel, which, as everybody knows, is opposite
the town hall, was occupied not only by its
nightly frequenters, but also by many less
familiar guests, who dropped in ostensibly
for a cigar and brandy or pale ale for the
good of the house, but really to hear the
news, or rather to enjoy the curious pleasure
experienced by human bipeds in repelling
and rehearing from many different lips what

they know perfectly already — like the readers
who enjoy the whole of " The Ring and the
Book." Amongst these grave citizens was
Mr. Warner, the owner of the large linen-draper's
shop, which makes the High Street
so resplendent with plate-glass and fashionable
fabrics.

If ever I saw guilty written on a man's
face," he observed thoughtfully, " it was
stamped upon Everard's."

I never saw a fellow with such a brazen
look," returned young Cooper, of the great
electioneering firm. " Eastbrook says he is
awfully clever."

Those fellows generally are," added
Strutt, the principal tailor, removing his
cigar from his lips and looking lovingly at it.
^' How I pity those poor Maitlandss ! "

Nice fellow, young Maitland ! I've known
him from a boy," said Warner. " They
always deal with us. He was in my shop on
the very day of the murder."

Ah ! and he was in mine on that same
day," added Strutt. " Taking manners he

has. Till he went to Cambridge, every
thread he wore came from us. I know him
well."

"Looks ill; trouble, perhaps," chimed in
young Mr. West, cashier at the county bank.
I hear that this Everard was bred up with
him."

"He was," returned Warner; "but this
young Maitland's manner is up to everything.
The young scamp ! he came into our establishment
on New Year's Eve. Marches upto
me with his hand held out, looking as if
he'd come from London on purpose to see me.
How are you, Warner ? A happy New
Year ! ' and so on. ' How well you are looking
! ' Inquires for every creature in my
house. Presently asks if I can cash a cheque
for him — cheque of Sir Lionel Swaynestone's,
ten guineas, as good paper as the Bank of
England's, of course. He wanted all gold,
which we couldn't quite do, and had to send
a young man to Cave's for some of it. ' This
cheque is for charities in our East End parish,
which is frightfully poor,' said he, and so on,

and so on. * And if you should happen by
mistake to slip in an additional guinea,
Warner,' says his worship, ' I'll promise you
to overlook it for once.' Well, there was
something in the lad's way that got the better
of me, and I was weak enough to sHp in the
extra coin, though we make a point of keeping
to local charities ; and, upon my soul, I
felt as if I had received the favour, not he.
Those are the manners to make one's way in
the world with."

And those are the people who deserve
to get on," interposed the auctioneer ; " not
your surly, defiant fellows, like this Everard.
By George ! to see him look at the witnesses.
I fancy he'd like to have the physicking of
some of them ! "

That's queer about the cheque," said
Strutt, the tailor. " Why, he got us to cash
him a cheque that same day, and would have
it gold, too ! Our cheque was by the Vicar
of Oldport — five guineas."

What ! the same day ? " asked another
citizen, who had been listening. " What did

he want with fifteen guineas in gold in his
pocket ? "

Well," replied Strutt, '' he said he
couldn't bear paper ; it never seemed real
to him. And he got over me with his extra
coins just as he did over Warner. We showed
him some new patent braces. ^ Dear me,
Strutt ! ' says he, ' is it possible that you
don't know that the younger clergy expect
to have these things found them ? ' looking
as grave as a judge. ' Found them, really,
Mr. Maitland ? ' says I. ' To be sure ! braces
and smoking-caps, worked by devout females.'
Not much to say, but the quaintness of the
manner tickled me, and one of our young
men laughed out. Maitland never smiled,
but asked for some handkerchiefs. ' The
faithful don't supply handkerchiefs, unluckily,'
says he."

He didn't look much like joking in the
box, poor chap ! " said Cooper, reflectively.
Wonder what he wanted with all that
gold?"

People are fond of gold, particularly

ladies and clergymen," observed young West,
who was still more surprised than the tradesmen
at Cyril's passion for specie. He stroked
his moustache thoughtfully, and wished that
professional etiquette did not forbid him to
relate his anecdote, which he thought might
throw some light on the bag of coin found in
the wood.

Cyril had visited the bank on that same
day, and drawn thirty pounds on his own
account. West asked him the usual question,
Notes or gold ? " expecting to be asked for,
perhaps, five pounds gold, and the rest paper,
and looked a little surprised at the ready
answer, " Gold."

Cyril laughed. " You think it odd to
carry so much gold about, Mr. West ? " he
asked.

It is unusual, certainly, Mr. Maitland,
and, if it were known, would be dangerous."

Oh, no one suspects a starveling curate
of being overburdened with coin ! A handful
of sovereigns loose about me is a whim of
mine. It makes me fancy myself a rich

man ; there is an Arabian Nights' flavour
about it. What a Dives you must feel when
you shovel up the sovereigns in that knowing
little shovel of yours ! "

Mr. West replied that he could more readily
realize the sensations of Lazarus, and asked
his customer if he did not frequently lose
money, when he saw him carelessly drop the
three little piles of gold into his waistcoat
pockets.

I might if I stood on my head," returned
Cyril, " and that is not probable. If you
should hear of a mild curate being murdered
and robbed in the course of the next few
days, you will be able to bear witness against
the assassin. Nice weather for the season,
isn't it ? Good morning."

Fifteen and thirty make forty-five," mused
young West, " and two fellows would have
at least five pounds gold more about them in
the common course of things. Yet, to hear
Maitland talk, you would think he never
moved without his pockets full of specie. A
whim of his ! Clergy can lie as well as others.

I tell you what," he added aloud, " I
expect young Maitland could open people's
eyes about this murder, if he cared to. Those
fifteen sovereigns went into that bag, I'll lay
any money."

Not it," returned Cooper. " A fellow
wouldn't ask a parson to help him in such a
scrape, chum or no chum."

"He'd ask the devil himself," interposed
young Durant, who was articled to his uncle,
Everard's solicitor.

In that case, he would turn to a lawyer,"
retorted Cooper, slily.

Well," pursued West, "did you ever see a
fellow stutter over his evidence like that? And
Maitland so ready with his tongue. He was
afraid of incriminating his friend, poor chap!"

"I was sorry for Miss Maitland," said
Warner. " To see her tremble ! Somebody
said she was engaged to Everard."

*' No engagement, my uncle says," replied
Durant. " A pretty girl, like her brother,
but older, I suppose"

Why, they are twins ! Everybody knows

VOL. II. F

the Malbourne twins," said Mr. Warner.
'' An escape for her, if she cared for this
doctor fellow. Nice girl ; our people always
like to serve her. Do you think they'll hang
him, Strutt ? "

I tell you what," broke in Burton, the
landlord : " it's no hanging business. Ten
to one, Lee attacked him. In any case, there
was a stiff struggle. Look at the torn coat
and the black eye",

If you try to murder me with a pint pot.
Burton, and I round upon you, and hit out
straight till I'm down, it's none the less
murder," said another customer.

This will be manslaughter at Belminster,"
said the landlord, oracularly. " Who'll bet
upon it ? I'll take any odds."

Even more surprised than Mr. West was
Lilian, when, on her parting with Cyril on
his return to his duties, he asked her to lend
him a couple of sovereigns.

Why, you extravagant boy ! Have you
spent all those we gave you for your parish ? "
she asked.

Cyril shrugged his shoulders. " You know
the fellow of old, Lill, and how he scatters
his coins. Only three guineas, all told, you
know."

Oh, Cyll ! And Sir Lionel's ten ? "

On paper. You can't pay your railway
fare with a cheque. Oh yes ! scold away.
I ought to have brought more money with
me, I dare say. I never carry coin about,
dear ; too sure to lose it. But, wonder of
wonders, I do chance to have a five pound
note. There ! "

Cyril had repaired to the Rectory for the
first time since New Year's Eve to bid his
mother good-bye. He could not bear to be
there after what had occurred, he said, and
he especially shrank, though he did not say
so, from meeting Lilian.

Poor dear fellow ! sensitive as he is, no
wonder he cannot bear to be here," commented
Mr. Maitland. " It is a sore trial for
us all," he sighed, as Lilian turned her head
away.

For he knew now of Lilian's love ; she had

told him all in the terrible quarter of an hour
in his study on New Year's Day, when he
broke the horror of Everard's arrest to her,
and she reproached him passionately for his
disbelief in the innocence of the accused.

But Cyril was obliged to conquer his
repugnance, and bid his invalid mother farewell,
and the rush of emotion which overcame
him in stepping over the threshold, so lately
desecrated by Everard's arrest, was thought
only natural and creditable to him. Lilian
met him there, and drew him aside to her
room, where Everard's gift of Gruercino's
Guardian Angel looked with his rapt, earnest
gaze far away over the sorrowful earth to the
distant heaven of joy and purity.

Oh, Cyril ! " cried Lilian, " why did you
not come before ? I have wanted you so.
They are all against him. Every one believes
him guilty but me. Tell me, dear — oh, tell
me that one at least is true to him ! You are
his friend ; you cannot think him guilty."

Cyril paused, his own emotion smothered,
as it were, by this outburst of Lilian's, an

outburst so foreign to her usual calm self-control
and restrained strength ; then he
opened his arms in a rush of the old, lifelong
affection, and clasped Lilian to his heart.

I do believe in him," he said ; " he is as
innocent as an unborn babe. I know it — I
know it ! "

Dear Cyril, I knew you would be true,"
replied Lilian. " What shall we do, Cyril ?
Oh ! what shall we do ? "

What, indeed ? " returned Cyril, overcome
by the unaccustomed passion of Lilian, whose
tears mingled with his own, as the twins
cried in each other's arms, just as they had
done in the old days of childhood.

"Keep up your heart, Lill,".said Cyril,
caressingly, when they had recovered themselves
a little. " After all, what is it ? An
idiotic mistake, a foolish mare's nest, invented
by these stupid rustics. A little inquiry will
set all right."

But this verdict — oh, Cyll ! " exclaimed
Lilian, letting her head droop once more on
her brother's shoulder, and weeping afresh.

What is the verdict ? " asked Cyril, rather
tremulously, as he stroked the rich waves of
Lilian's hair, and rejoiced that she could not
see his face. " Surely not ? "

Murder," replied Lilian, in low, shuddering
tones.

Cyril uttered an exclamation. Was it an
oath ? Lilian did not even pause to commend
it to the recording angel's lenience. Blue fire
shot from his eyes, and he ground his teeth.

Asses ! " he exclaimed at last. *' Never
mind the coroner and his stupid verdict,
darling," he added soothingly. " Coroners
happily do not administer justice. A very
little evidence will set things straight. Henry
was not ill the wood. They cannot prove
him to have been in two places at once.
Widow Dove being out that night was unlucky."


Everything seems unlucky," sighed
Lilian. " The stars in their courses fight
against him, Cyril."

Lilian raised her head, and looked sorrowfully
and appealingly, as it seemed, into her

brother's eyes ; and a rush of deep affection,
springing from the purest sources in his
nature, clouded the young man's glance, and
he clasped her once more protecting to his
breast, feeling, as in the days of his spotless
boyhood, that no human being could ever be
so close and dear to him as this twin-sister,
whose being was so closely and mysteriously
interwoven with his own. All affections and
ties that had since arisen seemed as nothing
in comparison with this one strong bond of
primal instinctive love ; even the bond of
marriage seemed but a secondary thing by
the side of it.

The twins had drifted apart of late years.
They had thought that the old childish union
must naturally grow weaker with the increasing
complex claims of mature life ; but
now they realized that it had only sunk out of
sight for a time, like an underground stream,
to break forth again with renewed power.
Lilian's weakness and momentary self-abandonment
called out all that was manliest and
best in Cyril. Hers, he knew, was the

deeper, stronger nature. He leant habitually
on her, and now he was touched to find
her leaning on him ; and the tears they shed
together renewed and reconsecrated the
strong kinship between them, like some holy
chrism.

He felt a happier and better man than he
had been for many weary months after that
mingling of tears, and the thought flashed
through him, with a mingling of pain and
sweetness, that they were too closely united
not to stand or fall together ; either he must
drag Lilian down, or she must raise him up.
Lilian would surely, he thought, as he gazed
into her clear, deep, beautiful eyes, be in
some way his salvation. In the mean time,
he soothed and comforted her.

You see, Lill," he said, " somebody killed
poor Lee, probably by accident. And if
things came to the worst with Everard, that
somebody would certainly come forward and
clear him."

This seemed curious reasoning, and yet it
comforted Lilian strangely. " My great hope

is in Alma," she said. " I am sure she can
throw light upon the affair."

A hot flame shot over Cyril's face, and he
turned his gaze from his sister's and looked
out of the window. " No doubt," he replied.

*' And then," continued Lilian, lifting her
head with a proud, indignant flush, " this
hideous aspersion must vanish."

"Good heavens! Lilian, do you mean that
they "

You have not followed the evidence,
Cyril?" asked Lilian. "Get i]iQ Advertiser,
and you will see. Yes, they dare — they
actually dare," she continued, drawing herself
up, and walking up and down with gestures
of indignant disdain, while her eyes shot
forth such a stream of light as Cyril's were
wont to do, " to charge him with Alma's
ruin ! "

The twins had been looking more alike
than ever during their impassioned interview,
till Lilian, in her fiery indignation, seemed
like an intensified Cyril ; but now the softness
and calm strength, which seemed to

have passed from the sister to the brother,
suddenly left the latter, and his face changed
and hardened, but he said nothing.

My hope is that Alma may not die,"
continued Lilian, not observing him in the
intensity of her passion.

Die ! " interrupted Cyril, in a deep, strange
voice, while his breath came gaspingly. " Is
there danger ? "

Yes ; but God is good. He will not let
her die till she has proved Henry's innocence."

Cyril was trembling with a terrible hope,
and yet a dread of what he dared not even in
thought acknowledge. He could not speak
for some moments, but looked out into the
chill garden, smothering this fierce emotion,
and striving to stifle a wish that formed
itself in spite of his better nature. At last
he turned to Lilian, whose exhausted
passion continued to pour itself out in the
same strain, with the radiant smile whose
magnetism so few could resist.

What idiots we are, Lill," he said,
wasting our fears upon this phantom !

Old Hal will be here laughing at the absurd
mistake in a week. There needs no interposition
of Providence to arrange that simple
matter. And, if it were not so," he added,
his brow darkening, "he must be free — at
any cost— at any cost," he repeated, below
his breath.

At any cost," he repeated, as he drove
his father into Oldport; and he turned and
looked upon the grey head by his side with
a strange mixture of tenderness and dismay.
Mr. Maitland was conversing cheerily as they
drove along, with a view to keeping up
Cyril's spirits, and carefully avoiding the
subject which was uppermost in everybody's
mind.

So Marion declines to come to us," he
said at last.

Yes," replied Cyril, in the plaintive tone
with which he usually discussed small annoyances
: " She says that her place is at Woodlands,
under present circumstances."

Poor dear ! she is a brave girl. Perhaps
she is right. While George and his wife

are there she will be cared for. Yes, she is

right. Yet for Lilian's sake — well

Why, Cyril lad," he added, as Cyril lifted
his hat for a moment to cool his hot forehead,
just as they were passing the Temple and the
fatal wood above it, " that is a nasty bruise
on your head ! How did you get it ? "

That ? " replied Cyril, replacing his hat
with a smile, and gently flicking the pony
into a better pace. " Oh, I did that ages
ago ! I ran against a door in the dark.
Here are the Swaynestones. How well
Ethel sits her horse ! Maude is inclined to
be heavy."

Those poor Maitlandss ! " Maude Sandstone
was saying to her sister. " How glad
Cyril must be to get back to his parish ! "

How he must hate papa ! " returned
Ethel, hotly, " or despise him for arresting
an innocent man on such flimsy grounds ! "

My dear Ethel, your weakness for Dr.
Everard carries you over the bounds of
reason."

When Cyril reached the railway-station,

he obtained every local paper published, and
forgot to pay for them in his eagerness till
gently reminded.

Just in time, sir." the stall-keeper said,
as he handed him his change. " We have
no copies of the Advertiser left. All the
papers printed double editions, too. The
Everard and Maitlandss are so well known
in these parts."

Are they ? " replied Cyril, turning away
with a flash of blue fire from his eyes.

Well, I am bio wed ! " cried the stall-keeper's
boy-assistant, doubled up with
laughing. " If that ain't young Maitland
himself!"

Cyril's hands shook as he opened the sheets
and ran his eye down the columns till he
saw, in large capitals, *' The Swaynestone
Murder. Adjourned Inquest. Verdict." He
held the paper so as to shield his face from,
the gaze of his fellow-travellers, and read
with growing horror, until cold drops stood
on his forehead, and his lips grew dry and
hard.

I never dreamed of this," he muttered.
Heaven is my witness, I never dreamed
of it!"

Life seemed to him one hopeless tangle of
error and misery, against which he was
powerless to strive. Labyrinth after labyrinth
seemed to draw him within their interminable
folds, till his brain was dazed and his
heart sick. Nowhere could he catch the clue
to any straight course ; by no means could
he unwind the deadly coil that Fate had
wound so closely and thickly round him ;
as he thought, forgetting his own share in
the work. What was the good, he wondered,
of being born into a world so complex, so
bewildering, so full of complicated motive
and baffled purpose, so beset by the devil and
all his works ? He felt as weak as any weaned
child, as terrified as a boy in the dark, in the
presence of the gigantic evils striding upon
him ; his will seemed to melt like wax within
him. Then he remembered Lilian in her
unwonted passion, and the memory was like
the balm of morning breezes through the

open window of a sick-room, and he made a
stand against the mental and moral swoon
which threatened him. Yes, in Lilian, his
better self, the saving clause of his being
spoke, and he murmured to himself once
more, " At any cost."

Some fresh travellers got in at Belminster,
and Cyril entered into conversation with
them, which became animated as they touched
upon congenial topics.

What a brilliant lad ! " one of them
observed to his companion, as they drove
away from Waterloo ; " one of the half-dozen
who can talk."

"It will be all right," Cyril thought to
himself, as he sped eastward in his hansom
through the crowded streets ; " something
will turn up — some happy chance."

CHAPTER XVI.

Early on a bleak spring morning, cold with
the bitter chill which comes only at the
moment just before the dawn of day or the
turn of winter, and strikes into the very
marrow of the bones, Cyril Maitland was
entering Belminster by the steep road descending
into the ancient city from the windy
downs which partially surround it.

Early as it was, he had walked far, having
risen from his sleepless couch in utter restlessness,
and sought to still his inward fever by
bodily exercise. A cup of milk at a farmhouse,
and a crust of bread, which he tried in vain
to swallow, formed his frugal breakfast. He
had in his hand a manual of Lenten devotion,
which he could not read. His beautiful eyes
were brilliant with fever, and appeared all the

larger from the dark circles beneath them.
'' 1 cannot bear this much longer," he murmured
to himself, as he descended the steep
chalky road, and gazed mechanically on the
grey old city, with its solemn towers and
buttressed minster, lying in the grey chill
light beneath the leaden sky ; " my brain will
give way."

On the slope of the opposite hill were some
large gloomy buildings, one of which, the
county jail, struck upon his sense with sickening
horror. Everard was there, to undergo
his trial ; for nothing had occurred, as Cyril
so fondly hoped, to deliver him, and he was
beginning to wonder if it were possible that,
in spite of all the complicated machinery of
English justice, an innocent man could suffer
the penalty of a great crime. To-day, Cyril
thought, it must be decided. If the wished-for
something failed to turn up, one terrible
alternative remained, and Henry must be
delivered, as he had told Lilian, " at any
cost."

He walked hurriedly on, as those walk

VOL. II. G

who are chased by terrible cares — with something
of the weary haste of wild animals
ever on the alert for lurking danger — between
the old-fashioned timbered cottages, stuck
at picturesque angles, as if dropped by
chance on the hillside, and becoming more
numerous till they fell into continuous line,
as he reached the bottom of the hill where
the river Bell wound its quiet course through
level mead and round about the old houses,
which lay humbly, as it were, at the feet of
the lordly cathedral and the wealthy streets
of the ancient city. Here a bridge spanned
the stream, and a little way back from the
road stood a quaint mill, built over an archway,
to admit the passage of the swift-flowing
water, and overgrown on its gabled, weather-stained
stone front by a vine, on which a
leaf or two yet lingered, and about which
pigeons clustered, hoping for sunshine, and
sheltered from the bleak east wind.

Cyril seated himself on the low stone wall
of the bridge, and looked down into the dark
stream, on the banks of which the cottages

clustered thickly at a little distance from the
road. His watch told him that he had not
yet consumed all the weary time, and the
running water had a strange attraction for
him — the idea of sinking beneath it, and being
hurried on away and away for ever was so
restful, though he smiled bitterly at the
thought that it was scarcely deep enough to
end a man's troubles. A child had been
drowned there from a cottage garden the day
before, but he did not know this.

The musical chimes of the city told the
quarter in melodious vibrations ; bugles were
ringing from the barracks on the heights ; the
hum of busy city life was rising and deepening.
When the hour struck, he would have to join
Lilian and his father in the court, to watch
the trial, and perhaps bear witness. He
almost envied Everard his place in the
prisoner's dock. He at least was tortured by
no doubts, he had no wrestlings with a weak
and divided will ; his course lay plain and
straight before him. Many thoughts passed
through Cyril's mind as he sat there, regardless

of the bleak wind, and watched the
interesting water, and once more he lived
through the scene of the previous Sunday.

His rector, with cruel kindness, seeing that
the young man was overwrought by the
labours which he discharged with such
apparently conscientious zeal, and tortured
by anxiety for his friend, had bidden him
take a little holiday, and go home to prepare
himself for the ordeal of Everard's trial.
Thus, on the Sunday, Cyril found himself
once more in the old familiar home, now so
distasteful to him through bitter associations.
Tire Malbourne witnesses, including most of
the Maitland household, were subpoenaed for
the following day, and all were present at
church, most of them with a lively remembrance
of Cyril's sermon on Innocents' Day,
when the slayer and the slain had been there
also. To-day Cyril enjoyed the rare luxury
of forming one of the congregation ; but his
father, having mentioned at luncheon, with a
profound sigh, that it was christening Sunday,
Cyril, knowing that neither he nor Mr.

Marvyn enjoyed the duty, offered to take it
for him.

They make me do nearly all the baptisms
at St. Chad's," he said, smiling at the recollection
of his fellow-curates' frequent requests
to relieve them of this duty, " because the
babies seldom cry with me. And they are
not engaging babies," he added ; '' utter
strangers to water, much less soap. We
frequently have children of six or seven, and
they need management."

So when the time came, Cyril rose from his
place in the chancel, and walked down the
church to the font, round which three infants
were ranged with their sponsors. The congregation
turned to the west, and Lilian
watched her brother with loving reverence,
as he poured the water into the font, and
began the solemn service in his perfect
manner, giving each word its proper weight
and purest enunciation in his matchless voice,
which was like an organ with many stops.
The bright afternoon sun of early spring fell
upon him and the pathetic little group of

poor men's babes brought for his ministrations,
and Lilian no longer wondered at his
being chosen for the duty at St. Chad's, when
she saw him bend and take the children with
reverent tenderness in his arms, and, by some
subtle magnetism in his touch, hush incipient
failings into peaceful, wide-eyed quiet.

The most impressive and touching of all
the Church's offices, this baptismal service
seemed, under Cyril's ministration, yet more
solemn and pathetic, and the most unimaginative
and commonplace woman, whose child
was restored to her arms in that careful and
dignified manner, could not but feel that
something august and wonderful had befallen
the unconscious infant in the interval. Greorge
Joseph, a lusty babe whose vigorous roars
had occasioned his being transported three
times to the churchyard, subsided into
cherubic quiet after one or two rebellious
efforts at a scream, which the graceful young
priest soothed with scarcely perceptible gestures,
and began his Christian course in a most
laudable manner ; then came a tiny Elizabeth

Jane, who conducted herself with equal propriety.
Then Cyril turned to the third
infant, which he did not recognize by its
friends, as he had the others.

It was carried by a widow woman, who
lived alone in the village, and was known far
and wide as the friend of the friendless, and
the natural visitor of every house in which
there was trouble of any kind ; she was also
the invariable sponsor of infants who conferred
no credit on their friends. This child was
better dressed than the cottager's children, all
in white, with black ribbons at its shoulders.
It was a baby that no woman, from a queen
downwards, could have looked upon without
longing to kiss, and was uttering various
little dove-like murmurs, which occasionally
rose to a crow of joy, and which the magic
touch, and perhaps the glance of the priest,
quieted into the softest sounds.

Name this child," said Cyril, turning
to the sponsors, and expecting to hear some
feminine appellation, a female having already
by mistake taken precedence of it.

Benjamin Lee," replied the widow, in
clear, high tones, which seemed to ring
through the silence of the church and pierce
into the very core of Cyril's heart. He
staggered, and his face for a moment was
whiter than the infant's dress or his own
stainless robe. Not the child which St.
Christopher bore on his giant shoulders
pressed with a more overwhelming weight
upon him than did this cooing babe, looking
up with the beautiful, far-off gaze of baby
innocence into his white face, press upon the
shuddering arm which enfolded him.

For some seconds a dead silence, broken
only by the child's happy murmurs, filled the
church. The whole congregation saw the
terrible emotion with which Cyril was shaken
his father, Mr. Marvyn, who was looking
down pitifully from the reading-desk and
reproaching himself for not having prepared
his pupil, and thus saved him from the shock,
the Swaynestones, the Garretts, his mother,
and Lilian, all the old familiar faces ; and
there was a kind of sympathetic stir through

the congregation, and a feeling of terror lest
the poor young fellow should give way utterly,
and be unable to continue the office.

But after those few seconds, which seemed
an eternity to Cyril, he mastered himself with
a strong effort, under the stimulus of the
many-eyed sympathetic glances upon him,
and, plunging his right hand into the holy
water, went quietly on, " Benjamin Lee, I
baptize thee," etc., with his accustomed
solemnity, nor did his voice falter once till he
returned the infant to its guardian's arms,
adjusting its robes with his usual care as he
did so ; only there was a deeper meaning than
ever in his voice as he spoke the pathetic
words of the ritual, especially these : " that
he may not be ashamed — to manfully fight
under Christ's banner against sin, the world,
and the devil ; " and Lilian, who so seldom
displayed any emotion, cried unrestrainedly
at this passage.

But more than once during the remainder
of the baptismal ofSce, Cyril, instead of reading
" they " and " them," for the three infants.

read " he " and " him," especially at the concluding
exhortation, when he looked abstractedly
at the now sleeping Benjamin Lee,
and said, *^ Ye are to take care that tlds
child'' etc.

Then he returned with a slow and weary
step to the chancel, his gaze fixed on the
pavement, and the Nunc Dimittis ringing in
his ears, with a strange feeling of its in-appropriations
— for how 'different was his
case from that 6f the aged Simeon with the
Redeemer in his arms ! — He felt the sympathetic
gaze of the congregation, who were
still watching his haggard, troubled face ;
and sat during the sermon with that face,
and all the passions which moved it, covered
by the sleeve of his surplice, like that of
Ulysses at the feast.

He had looked down fearfully upon the
sweet baby face resting so placidly against
his snowy dress, the " priestly ephod," as he
had fondly called it with Keble, and his
bowels yearned over the helpless creature so
unconscious of its doom and of all the tragedy

caused by its innocent, unwelcome existence ;
he looked in search of some likeness that
might betray its unknown parent. Was it
fancy that he seemed to see, now a look of
the slain man, now a look of his own father,
but on the whole and with fearful distinctness,
the features and expression of Lilian ?
Would others see this, and would they
wonder at the accidental resemblance, or did
it exist only in his own overwrought, fevered
juicy ? He could only pray that the child
might grow up with other looks ; yet dared
he, ought he, so to pray ?

This was the scene re-enacted in his fancy,
as he sat on the low stone wall and watched
the river's unceasing flow, and felt no chill
in the biting wind. The little head seemed
to rest still on his throbbing breast ; the
sweet, deep eyes to gaze up into his ; and
the tiny dimpled fist to clutch vaguely at the
folds of the priestly garment, stirring the
wildly beating heart beneath it with an
emotion that was not wholly pain, while he
still seemed to read those solemn words of

baptismal renunciation and manful fighting
under the sacred banner — words that strike
with such awful reproach on the erring
soldier of the cross.

Then he thought of Lilian, and his heart
seemed to swoon within him ; and then of
Marion, the centre of all his hopes ; and he
could look no looser on the flowing: water,
but rose, suddenly conscious of the bleak
wind in which be shuddered, and hurried on
like one driven by thought, his eyes on the
dusty road. Better, far better, it would have
been to have taken the step he meditated at
such dreadful cost to himself at the very first,
before this fearful coil wound itself round
Everard ; every moment's delay made it
worse, and now there was scarcely room for
fate to alter things.

A beautiful music rose mellow and solemn
upon his distracted ear, and floated softly
over the smoke-wreathed city — the cathedral
bells calling to morning prayer. Others
sounded from the various churches in differing
cadence, but mostly in monotone, and blended

with the delicate chiming of the minster ;
none were silent, since it was Lent, and the
melodious confusion penetrated with sweet
pain the very depths of Cyril's heart. It
recalled the pleasant chiming of the waggon
bells as he heard them on the fatal evening
which began all this trouble, and it reminded
him, by its association with the cathedral,
whose light flying buttresses were now
springing just over his head, of all the
hopes to which he was about to bid farewell
for . ever. Marion's charming face hovered
once more singly before him, and a
stifled sob escaped him. Not many men, he
thought, had such high hopes to renounce,
and he walked on up the steep street, past
the quaint, arcaded houses and the delicately
carved and fretted Gothic cross, a man broken
in his youth, utterly wrecked at starting, with
a cup to drink that was beyond his strength.

A ragged child approached him with
tremulous voice and large pleading eyes,
offering primroses to sell, and Cyril stopped
even in his misery — for he loved children,

and they loved him — to stroke its face and
pity its chilled, bare limbs, and give it pence
and kindly words before he hurried on. The
boy somehow recalled, by his wide, clear gaze,
the unacknowledged child he had baptized.
Would that child be thus barefoot ? he
wondered. Had this boy a father who
suffered him to shiver in the bitter blast ?
The sweet bell-music went floating drowsily
on. Cyril found his father and Lilian, and
finally reached the court.

The grand jury had found a true bill of
murder against Everard, and he now appeared
in answer to that indictment.

Lilian looked up, as Cyril dared not, when
Everard entered, and walked with his usual
firm step and erect bearing, but with an air
of unaccustomed hauteur, into the prisoner's
dock. A young emperor could not have
ascended a throne with less humility or a
gaze more unfaltering than that with which
the usually unassuming, gentle-mannered
Everard mounted the dreadful eminence of
the accused criminal. He looked steadily,

some said defiantly, all round the building,
measuring judge and jury, counsel, and all
with a comprehensive gaze ; it was only
when his eyes fell on the Maitlandss that a
hot flush sprang over his face and a quiver
troubled it for a moment.

His features were sharpened by anxiety and
suffering, and there were dark circles under
his eyes ; but the confinement had not impaired
his magnificent strength, and the
reporters described him as a powerful and
resolute man, with a defiant air. When called
upon to plead, his " Not guilty," with an
emphasis on the negative, sounded like a
challenge flung in the teeth of the whole
world, which truly seemed to be arrayed
against him.

The judge did not like his looks ; he
1 bought such a bearing unsuitable to an
accused person, whether innocent or guilty.
He looked in vain for any signs of quailing
in the honest hazel eyes, full of the pride of
indignant innocence. The judge's own gaze
plainly expressed to those who knew the

man, " This fellow will have to bite the
dust."

Mr. Justice Manby was well known as a
hanging judge, and, though he was as just and
upright as perhaps only English judges are,
he was human, and thus liable to have his
judgment biased by prejudice, and he conceived
a prejudice at first glance against the
haughty prisoner arraigned before him. Yet
he thought himself prejudiced the other way.
Because he was a strong Conservative, a
staunch upholder of hereditary right and
class distinctions, he feared lest he should
unconsciously incline to lenience towards
criminals of gentle birth, and said within
himself that he would not spare any for his
gentleness, but rather consider how far more
guilty such are than the uncultured herd,
who scarcely know their right hands from
their left. The jury, whose minds were
full of Palmer and his diabolical strychnine
poisonings, and who felt that strong measures
must be taken to cripple the fearful power
the doctor's position of trust and unfettered

responsibility in homes gives him, were also
prejudiced against him by this haughty
bearing, and esteemed him to be a villain
eminently dangerous to society. Truly, as
Lilian said, the stars in their courses seemed
to fight against Everard.

Even his counsel did not believe his statement
of the facts, and advised him very
earnestly to plead guilty to the minor charge.
How can I plead guilty when I am innocent
? " thundered Everard. " I tell you I
never even saw the man after the Sunday,
and had quite as much motive for killing
you as him ; indeed, more," he added, for
he felt inclined to personal violence on some
of those who so sorely misjudged him, particularly
this barrister, who was master of the
peculiar facial expression that may be called
the barrister's sneer, the expression of a man
who has seen too much of the wrong side of
human nature. The counsel understood the
flash of his client's eyes, and, when he looked
at his powerful frame, was glad that he was
not like the unfortunate Ben Lee, alone in a

VOL. II. H

wood with him. It was his business, however,
to defend the prisoner, and not to judge him,
and he did his best, fettered, as a man with
any conscience must be, by the belief that his
cause was a bad one.

The great thing, as Cyril had suggested,
was to prove an alii ; and to this end,
Granter, William Grove's child, Winnie
Maitland — a feeble trio, truly — and Widow
Dove were relied upon. The latter, to Mr.
Hawkshaw's dismay, had already been subpoenaed
for the prosecution, at which Everard
smiled ; he could not fear her. Straun, the
blacksmith, who deposed to having seen
Everard leaving the village in the direction
of Swaynestone some time before Stevens saw
him leave the Rectory by the back of the
churchyard, was further reckoned a strong
ally, but on being put to the test, he was
fatally positive about the grey suit and the
stick, and broke down utterly as to the time
on cross-examination.

Then Alma was a strong tower of hope,
though reckoned among the witnesses for the

other side ; she would at least dissipate the
calumny based upon the misconceptions of
Judkins and her step-mother, and would
explain the nature of her meetings with
Everard in the spring, when they had been
accustomed to have long discussions upon
Mrs. Lee's symptoms, and she would also
enlighten people about those unfortunate
lectures on botany which Everard now saw
with remorseful humiliation to have been so
injudicious.

As the trial proceeded, and witness after
witness repeated or enlarged upon the former
evidence, Everard realized the sensations of
the man in the story, the horror of which
had fascinated his childhood — of the sleeper
in the ghastly four-post bedstead, the top of
which slowly and remorselessly descended
upon him till it threatened to become too late
to escape from the narrowed aperture, and he
should struggle in vain against his irresistible
doom.

At first, in spite of all the annoyance and
vexatious notoriety of his unjust committal and

detention, Everard had believed that it must
end, after the weighing and sifting of evidence
at the final trial, in his acquittal; the worst
he feared was leaving the court with the
stains of unrefuted suspicion upon him : hut,
as the trial proceeded, a terrible conviction
that a miscarriage of justice might occur was
slowly burnt into his soul.

The appearance of Widow Dove in the
witness-box gave him a faint hope, though,
having been absent from home, she could not
prove his presence at her cottage ; she could
merely show the credibility of his tale. It
was not possible, he thought, that a man,
acting as he was accused of doing, would setup
such a feeble pretence at alibi as to pretend
to go to a house from which he averred
the inmates were absent ; it would be so very
simple to upset this defence by the production
of the inmates.

What was his amazement on hearing the
witness quietly depose, " On December 31, I
was at home all day with my daughter, who
was in bed with a cold. A book-hawker

called in the forenoon ; no one else came to
the cottage till six in the evening, when
Abraham Wood looked in on his way home
from work to get a light for his pipe, and
had some tea." Questioned by Mr. Hawk-shaw,
she said that she was in the house
from twelve till six, not even going into her
garden all that time. Her cottage had only
two rooms, with a kind of shed or lean-to,
which served as scullery. Asked at what
hour she lighted her candle, she replied that
she did so about dusk.

The counsel did not guess what really
happened — that the widow, busy in the 
with her daughter, let her gorse-fire
burn out, and, being short of fuel, did not
re-light it, bitter cold as it was, till she wished
to boil her tea-kettle after Everard had left
the dark, fireless cottage, under the impression
that it was untenanted ; and the poor
woman's pride rendered her by no means
eager to volunteer this information. The
daughter corroborated her mother's statement,
knowing nothing of the extinguished

fire or her mother's occupation at the time of
Everard's visit, that of cutting gorse-stems in
the shed. Wood, the labourer, who, beguiled
by the cheery glow of the widow's fire on his
evening walk home, got his pipe-light and
cup of tea at the cottage, gave evidence that
the fire was alight. Mr. Hawkshaw thought
his client a fool to invent so lame a story.
Everard believed that he was under the influence
of some dreadful nightmare, which
must speedily end.

CHAPTER Xiii.

The Alma Lee who appeared in the witness-box
was a very different being from the
happy and innocent girl who rode home in
Long's waggon to the music of the bells in
the grey November evening, unconscious of
the complicated meshes of trouble which the
fates were weaving about the simple strand
of her commonplace lot.

Her experience of the bitter realities of
life had added a terrible lustre to her beauty,
and developed her character in an unexpected
direction. It was a nature, as Lilian said,
full of noble possibilities and strong for good
or for evil, and in its perversion it resembled
some mighty stream turned aside from its
natural course, and overflowing its banks in
new and disastrous ways, bringing devastation

where it should have brought blessing.
The shame which would have crushed
slenderer and sweeter natures kindled a
scornful indignation in Alma, and a sense
of the cruel disproportion of her punishment
to her guilt — a guilt which looked angel-faced
by the side of a thousand deeper sins which
daily pass not only unavenged, but almost
as matters of course — kindled a fierce resentment
in her. Suffering had hardened her ;
she was a moral ruin, and when she stepped
with a firm and not ungraceful carriage into
the witness-box, and looked round the court
with haughty defiance, every one compared
her bearing with that of the prisoner, and
pronounced them a pair of impenitent evildoers.


Alma's features had lost their youthful
softness and indecision of outline ; they were
now like chiselled marble, firm and pure
and beautiful in curve. They had indeed
been chiselled into shape by the sharp
strokes of passion and suffering and wrong— -
terrible sculptors, to whom the human face

is as wax ready for modelling. The dark,
almond-shaped, rather melancholy eyes now
burned with the fire of intense resolution ;
the full, rich red lips were fuller, but firmer ;
they met in a curve of sharpest accuracy,
their former pretty wilfulness forgotten with
girlhood and innocence. Her figure had expanded
into a statuesque nobility, and all
rustic awkwardness in her gestures was now
swallowed up in the unconscious dignity of
her tragic fate.

Her appearance created great surprise, and
a murmur of involuntary admiration stirred
the court as she entered the box, and cast
her defiant glance around. It was no gentle,
penitent Magdalen, as people expected, buta
proud, self-reliant woman, magnificent even
in ruin. The girl in the waggon said her
prayers daily, hoped for heaven, and would
by no means have told a lie : so she thought,
for she had never endured temptation, and
had never needed to practice self-restraint in
her easy, simple life, though she knew self-denial,
but it was the self-denial of impulse,

not principle. The woman in the witness-box
still prayed — she had prayed for the
death of her unborn child — but she no longer
hoped for heaven. She knew that it is
not for such as love man more than God,
and renounce it at the bidding of another,
and yet she did not repent ; she knew that
her brief season of evil-doing was the sweetest
in her life, sweeter far than any hopes of
heaven had ever been ; she regretted only
that it was past for ever. She was now an
outcast from heaven above and from the
world below, and lies were of little consequence
to her.

As she stood in the witness-box, one voice
rang in her ears and through her heart with
these words of terror : " Oh, Alma, save
me, save me ! You know I never meant
it ! " It was almost the last voice she heard
before the terrible darkness that came upon
her when she felt that her hour was come,
and there was no one to pity her. When at
last the darkness cleared and her reason
returned, that voice rang piercingly through

all the chambers of her brain, awaking all
the bitter misery of the past months with the
added tragedy of that fatal night, and making
her wish she had never been born.

But nature, so inexorably just in exacting
debts, is equally just in paying them, and
had in reserve an unsuspected store of wealth
for the unfortunate girl. When she saw the
beautiful child for whose death she had
prayed, a fresh spring opened within her,
and she rejoiced over him with the strong
passion of her nature. Once more she had
something to love and live for, to devote
herself to body and soul, something entirely
her own, all the more her own that he was
scorned and rejected by others. Her joy in
this innocent creature restored her to health of
mind and body, and deepened her old, never-dying
love for the man who had long ceased
to love her — the man whose imploring cry,
Oh, Alma, save me, save me ! " always rang
in her heart.

Mr. Braxton, the counsel for the prosecution,
handled this his favourite witness with

the utmost delicacy of his art. To have her
sworn, and say, " I am Alma Lee, etc. ; the
deceased, Benjamin Lee, was my father. I
last saw him alive on the afternoon of
December 31," was simple enough, but the
difficulty was to get anything more from her.
It was between four and five o'clock, she said,
under the dexterous handling of Mr. Braxton
a handling fiercely criticized by Mr. Hawk-shaw,
and often provoking a battle-royal
between the counsel, and obliging Mr. Justice
Manby more than once to cast his truncheon
into the arena as a signal to cease fighting.
She was in the wood known as Temple Copse
with a friend. That friend, she admitted
reluctantly at length, was her child's father ;
his name could in no wise be extracted from
her.

Were you in the wood by appointment ? "
from Mr. Braxton.

Yes."

Did the torn letter produced refer to the
appointment ? "

Yes."

Was it written by the prisoner ? "
Furious onslaught on the part of Mr.
Hawkshaw, interposition of Mr. Justice
Manby, and repetition of the question in a
different form.

By whom was the . letter produced
written ? "

Silence on the part of witness. At last,
after delicate manipulation on the part of Mr.
Braxton, "It was written by the person I
met in the wood."

Sensation in court, which was crowded,
and included a few ladies of lovely feature
and rich attire.

Alma continued, amid a repetition of
skirmishes between the two counsel, and
many rebellions against Mr. Braxton on her
own part, to give the following evidence.
She had been standing on the spot where her
father subsequently fell for some minutes
with the mysterious friend, who was dressed
in the fatal grey suit, and carried the stick
produced in court. He offered her money for
her child's support — a bag of gold. This she

Lad refused many times, when her father
appeared suddenly.

He carried a stick — a rough and heavy
staff, fresh cut from the hedge — was angry
and excited, dashed the bag of gold to the
ground, stamped on it, and began upbraiding
the young man. He ordered his daughter
to leave them, and she did so. She waited
outside the copse, listening, and fearful that
something would happen. She heard voices
indistinctly, and at last sounds like men
struggling. She turned faint, and when she
recovered a little there was silence.

She was returning to the wood, when a
figure rushed towards her, bleeding in the
face, the grey suit torn and stained, and
covered with brambles and dead leaves.
He said — here the witness broke down, and
wept so bitterly that she could not speak for
some time — he said that he had killed her
father by an accidental blow that he had
given in defending himself; that Lee had
assaulted him with great violence, of which
he bore the mark ; and at last he entreated

her to save him. " I promised that I would
never betray him," said Ahiia, with calm
simplicity, as she drew her black drapery
round her, " and I never will." She related
further that she bid him leave the spot
quickly, before her mother returned from
Malbourne and met him, and that he did so ;
and that she herself regained her home as
quickly as possible, and went to bed, being
very ill, and knew and heard nothing of the
search for and discovery of her father's body
until her partial recovery weeks later.

The evidence of Judkins was fuller than
that he gave at Oldport. He deposed to
seeing Alma enter the wood shortly before
Everard entered it from the opposite direction.
Ingram Swaynestone also witnessed
to seeing her, or rather a female form which
he supposed to be hers, among the hazels
which bordered the copse, as he rode up
the meadow before he met the grey-suited
figure. Swaynestone had often seen the two
together in the spring, knew that Everard
visited Mrs. Lee twice a day, and had seen

Alma accompany him on his homeward way
some distance, in earnest conversation with
him. Judkins, in describing these meetings,
said, in the witness-box, " They walked slow
and strolling, like people who keep company."

All this Alma admitted. Dr. Everard made
her accompany him through a field or two
sometimes, she said, that she might have
fresh air, which, he said, she needed. He
used to give her directions about her mother,
and receive her account of her symptoms ; he
used also to ask her about plants, explain
them to her, and ask her to procure him
specimens. They could not say much respecting
the symptoms before the woman who
helped to nurse Mrs. Lee, because she was
indiscreet, and told all to the patient. Dr.
Everard had given her a book or some trifle
every Christmas since she was six or seven
years old.

Alma was told of the peril of concealing a
felony, she was threatened with committal
for contempt, she was informed that she
became an accessory to her father's death

after the fact if she continued to conceal the
name of his murderer ; but she was stubborn,
trembling and turning pale at the words
accessory after the fact." She was further
told that her oath required her not only to
say whether or no the prisoner was the man
who dealt the fatal blow, but to reveal the
name of the actual murderer, supposing the
accused to be innocent.

Alma trembled more and more as her
examination proceeded ; the heavy air made
her giddy and faint, and the unaccustomed
excitement and agitation of her terrible
position confused her faculties. To the
question, " Had the prisoner, on leaving the
wood, the stick produced in his hand ? " she
replied, " No ; he was wringing his hands,"
and she made similar slips ; and, finally, to
the question, " Is the man who met you in
the copse the prisoner in the dock, or some
other man ? " she replied, with a sob and a
shudder, in words that thrilled every ear in
the building, '' It is the prisoner."

When Everard heard these fatal words,

TOL. II. I

he trembled so that he seemed about to fall ;
the sweat of agony stood on his brow and
dabbled the short, curly brown hair that he
had pushed over it in the growing agitation
of Alma's evidence ; and the eyes with which
he gazed upon the pale and shuddering
witness had a dazed and filmy look. In
one moment the real truth flashed upon him,
illuminated by the lightning of Alma's passionate
glances, and the whole history
arranged itself dramatically before him in its
minutest details with a vivid distinctness
that never more left him.

Glimpses of truth more bitter than death
to believe had come upon him many a time
before, only to be driven away by the
scornful incredulity of a loyal and generous
nature. As the evidence developed before
him, these glimpses became more frequent
and more difficult to combat, though the
hateful suspicions were never dwelt upon ;
but now, in that moment of vivid, heart-piercing
revelation, every little suspicious
circumstance, unnoticed at the time, rose up

with magic swiftness, and fitted into its
natural place in one long unbroken chain,
of perfectly sequent, convincing evidence.
Words, gestures, accents, once regarded in
such different lights, now showed clear in
one lurid flame ; widely floating reminiscences,
conjectures, hypotheses rushed together in a
coherent whole, and an awful sense of the
mystery of human iniquity caused Everard's
soul to swoon within him. A faint groan
escaped him, audible, low as it was, in the
startled, momentary silence of the court.

There is no God," he said within himself;
there is no good, no help anywhere."

After this, the trial, which was virtually at
an end, seemed to have no further interest
for him. He stood in his dreadful place like
one crucified, and listened abstractedly to the
further proceedings — Alma's cross-examination,
Mr. Braxton's triumphant, 'that, my
lord, closes the evidence for the prosecution,"
Mr. Hawkshaw's laboured and lame address,
the few and feeble witnesses for the defence,
and the judge's able and comprehensive

summing-up — with a listless face and a soul
full of darkness.

Cyril was not in court when Alma's
examination was thus concluded. He had
listened to part of it on the previous day,
and then rushed away, unable to bear it.
On this morning he had felt unequal to
hearing more, and a friend, seeing his condition
of mental unrest, had recommended
him to try a brisk walk, promising to tell
him what passed whenever he should return
to the vicinity of the court. Cyril wandered
restlessly about, more haggard and feverish
than ever, trying to brace himself to the
performance of his obvious and long-neglected
duty, and yet, with the unreason of
weak and sanguine temperaments, hoping
against hope that something might still turnup
to absolve him from the necessity before
which every fibre of his being shuddered in
mortal anguish.

The old-fashioned streets seemed to him
like the architecture of dreams, and the figures
hurrying; to and fro had no more reality for

him than the flitting phantoms of a nightmare.
The blood throbbed in his temples
like the piston of a steam-engine ; he wondered
how his brain had borne its dreadful pressure
so long. He wandered into the sweet, sunny
stillness of the Close, and strove to calm himself
by the peaceful suggestions and hallowed
associations of the semi-monastic spot. The
voices of children at play came harmoniously
over the wall of the canons' gardens ; some
quietly dressed ladies went by; the dean
issued from beneath the lovely pointed arches
which formed a porch to the Deanery, and
walked with a dignified quiet, free from loitering,
across the sunshiny grass. Cyril looked
wistfully at his bland, wholesome, yet delicate
face, and remarked to himself on the peculiarly
English combination of piety and aristocracy
which is the special note of the higher ranks
of Anglican clergy, and wondered whether
piety or aristocracy were the larger ingredient
in the mixture so pleasing to some minds.
Years afterwards he recalled these idle reflections,
as people recall the trifles which belong

to the critical moments of life and become
stamped upon the memory along with the
crises themselves. The rooks were busy in
the great leafless elms, sailing across the
blue sky or clustering about the boughs with
a confused, reiterated cawing, which recalled
the breezy downs of home and the white peace
of boyhood.

The massive cathedral looked solemnly
peaceful in the bright, cold, spring sunshine,
which made the flying buttresses and other
salient points cast sharply cut shadows on its
grey surface. It seemed to offer peace to
Cyril's distracted soul, and he left the sunshine
and entered the vast building, soothed
for a moment by its shadowy echoing stillness.
Some idea of betaking himself to
prayer possessed him, but he could not collect
his thoughts, and he rose from his knees and
jDaced the echoing aisles, looking up, as if for
help, into the deep shadow of the arched roof.
Some organ notes soon soared thither — a
brief prelude ; then Mendelssohn's air, " If
with all your hearts ye truly seek Me." His

fancy supplied the mellow pathos of a tenor
voice to the lovely melody, and he stood
beneath the solid arches of the great Norman
transept, wistful and hushed for a moment.

Oh that I knew where I might find
Him ! " he echoed.

The air died away, and, after a brief pause,
one of Bach's magnificent fugues was
thundered forth in complex, ever-increasing
majesty, till it seemed charged with the
agony and passion and exultation of some
great war of young and mighty nations, full
of the " confused noise and garments rolled
in blood," which belong to the warrior's
battle. The tumult echoed through all the
recesses of Cyril's being ; it gave an outlet to
the stormy agitation within him. He surrendered
himself to the full power of the
mighty harmony, glad to lose himself, if but
for a moment. But the conflict of the contrapuntal
parts harmonized too well with the
conflict in his soul ; it was no longer a battle
of the warrior, but a strife of powers, celestial
and infernal.

He covered his face with his hand, leaning
against a pillar, and seemed to see countless
legions of warring angels flash in glittering
cohorts over the universe, and then to hear
the crash of the counter charge of the dusky
armies of hell. Now the bright-armoured
squadrons are driven back, and Cyril's heart
shakes within him. Is hell stronger than
heaven ? Shall wrong conquer right ?
Michael, the Prince himself, is driven back,
and the fiend, with the face of marred but
never-forgotten glory, is triumphant. But
no; the adamantine swords flash out again,
the dazzling wings cleave the blue ether, and
the vast squadrons of dusky horror are driven
back — back into endless abysses of chaotic
night.

The angel trumpets peal out in heart-stirring
triumph, the music ceases, and Cyril
is left alone, his cheek pressed against the
chill, rough stone, and hot tears rushing
down his face. Was the angel combat for a
human soul ? or was all that tumult of war
only the strife within one narrow human

breast ? In that case, lie felt he was undone
his will was too weak ; evil was too strong
for him. He could find no peace, even in
that holy place. He turned and paced rapidly
down the long nave, and offered to a stray
sight seer, in his abstraction, the striking
spectacle of an ascetic-looking young clergyman
wearing his hat in a cathedral.

Young man," said the stranger, solemnly
accosting him, " are you aware that this
building is consecrated ? "

Cyril flushed, and tore off his hat, murmuring
some words of explanation. Then
he rushed out into the sunshine, where he
met his friend, evidently big with tidings.

Well ? " he asked, his lips growing dry
with apprehension.

Well, Maitland, I am afraid it is all up
with the poor fellow. There is no doubt
now ; Alma Lee has confessed all."

"All?" asked Cyril, steadying himself
against the stone lintel of the side door.

Yes. She was outside the copse. She
heard a struggle; Everard rushed out, covered

with blood, and said he had accidentally
struck the fatal blow in self-defence, and implored
her to save him."

Everard ? Did she swear that Everard
did it ? " asked Cyril, in a strained, unmusical
voice.

Yes ; she swore* to him at last. Not
that any one ever had the slightest doubt.
Poor fellow ! he should have pleaded guilty.
After all, what is accidental homicide in self-defence
? "

What indeed ! " returned Cyril, in the
same strange voice, with an unusual look in
his face.

He was silent for a while, and his friend
said nothing, sympathizing with his trouble.
Then he pulled himself from the lintel with
an effort, and walked quickly away. " I
must go to the court at once," he said, with
quiet determination.

I would stay away, if I were you," said
the friend, accompanying him nevertheless.
After all," he added, with blundering attempts
at consolation, ^' the poor fellow has

not been to blame. As for that entanglement,
Maitland, you must not judge it from a
clerical point of view. The world smiles on
these youthful follies. As a medical man in
practice, it would have gone against him ;
but then, he is not yet in practice, and everyone
knows that young blood is not iced. His
blunder was in denying it. If he had but
pleaded guilty, Manby would have let him
down easily enough. Such a magnificent
girl, too ! Few men but Braxton would have
dragged it out of her. She looked like death
when she said it. You see, she had sworn
to shield him. Fancy letting that out in
the witness-box ! "

^' You see," interrupted Cyril, suddenly —
for this kind of talk was more than he could
bear — " I am a clergyman, and must look at
these things from a clerical point of view."

Cyril's very slight evidence had not been
of sufficient importance to be repeated at
the trial ; Lilian's was, however, deemed
important from its very feebleness and the
evident reluctance with which she gave it.

Mr. Braxton was so very sarcastic about her
reasons for disbelieving the evidence of her
senses, that even Mr. Justice Manby, who was
human, and touched by Lilian's gentle and
sorrowful dignity — not to speak of her youth
and beauty — threw the regis of his office over
her, and pronounced Mr. Braxton's observations
to be irrelevant.

The other witnesses merely repeated what
has already been recorded, though with more
detail, and all stood cross-examination well.
Mr. Hawkshaw's endeavours to show that
Judkins's suspicions of Everard were but the
.forgeries of jealousy, served only to fasten
the imputation more deeply upon the accused.
The feigned handwriting was pronounced by
experts to be that of Everard ; they relied
greatly upon the formation of a capital T,
which was made in the French manner, *^.
Everard smiled mournfully when he heard
this. He thought of the far-off school-time,
when he and the twins had been first puzzled
and then enchanted by their French teacher's
T's ; he thought of one wet afternoon, when

they got a gridiron and heated it red-hot,
and had a mock-masonic initiation, of which
the house-dog, Ever — swathed in a dressing-gown,
and occasionally uttering whines of
remonstrance — was Grand Master ; and how
they. vowed absurd vows, one of which was
to be ever faithful to the persecuted French T.
He recalled a solemn discussion at the end of
the initiation as to the amount of guilt which
would be incurred by either of the twins in
breaking their vows. Cyril argued that
neither of them could singly commit more
than half a crime ; and Henry replied that in
that case neither ought singly to eat more
than half a dinner. All this happy and
guileless fooling enacted itself again in
Everard's memory while his fate was being
decided in the serious strife of the barristers,
who pleaded for and against his innocence,
and made him feel, like Francesca da Rimini
in hell, that " there is no greater pain than
remembering happy times in misery."

CHAPTER Xviii.

Every one felt the defence to be a mere
farce, insufficient to kindle interest, much less
hope, even in the prisoner. Little Rosalie
Grove, the child who saw and spoke with
Everard at Long's farm between five and
six on the evening of the 31st, was but five
years old, and, on being produced in the town
hall at Oldport, did nothing but weep bitterly
and cling to her father for comfort. His
caresses and remonstrances failed to extract
anything from her. He could only depose that
she had shown him a penny just given herby
" a man," when he came in to tea at six ;
that she said that the man wanted Dr.
Everard's parcel, which she had seen her
mother take to the Rectory.

The appearance of Winnie Maitland's golden

curls in the witness-box touched people and
kindled deep indignation in the breasts of
both judge and jury, who thought the child
had been practised upon. Her first performance
was to cry with fright, though she
stated her name and age distinctly, and
took her oath properly. She understood the
nature of an oath, she said ; her sister Lilian
had explained it to her, and enjoined her to
be very careful in what she said. On being
asked what she supposed would be the
consequence of her swearing carelessly, she
replied that '' Henry would be hanged," an
idea she had imbibed from Lennie, during-many
anxious consultations with him.

She did not know exactly at what time
Everard returned to the Rectory ; it was
about tea-time." She did not know what
clothes he wore ; he was in a great hurry to
go upstairs, to get ready for dinner. She
told him there was no hurry, as it was long
before dinner-time ; but he replied that he
was not fit to go into the drawing-room.
Cross-examined, she said he was "in a

dreadful mess," words used by Everard.
She pleaded for '* just one toss," and he threw
her up in the air and caught her several
times. She did not remember striking him,
or coming in contact with him. The hall in
which the playing took place was not well
lighted.

All of a sudden he set her down, and
said, " You have done it now ; blinded me."
She cried, and made him promise not to
tell ; she was always getting into trouble for
rough play. He went into the kitchen, and
came out again with raw beef. She followed
him to his room, and he showed her some
flowers, and told her to take them to her
sister, and " not to come bothering him anymore."
She was trying so hard to play
gently, and she did not know she touched
him. His eye was very bad, but he did all
he could to hide it, and said at dinner that he
had knocked it against something.

Granter, who entered the witness-box with
a vague notion that his conversational powers
had at last a worthy sphere, repeated what

he said at Oldport with the same circumlocution
and affectation of stupidity, and
parried Mr. Braxton's questions, and dealt
him cutting rejoinders, with an apparent
absence of malice that drove the Court into
ecstasies of mirth.

Mr. Maitland and others bore witness to
Everard's good reputation, and also to the
frankness with which he spoke of his visits
to Mrs. Lee in the spring — a circumstance
which the counsel for the defence maintained
to be incompatible with Judkins's suspicions
as to the purpose of those visits.

After listening to Mr. Hawkshaw's laboured,
impassioned, but totally illogical speech for
the defence, no creature in the court had the
faintest hope for the prisoner ; the only question
now was the sentence. Yet there was
one who dared to rely upon the summing-up,
and hope that Mr. Justice Manby would
discover some technical flaw which might
afford a loophole for escape. This person
was Cyril Maitland, who had set out from
the cathedral with such intense determinate.

II. > K

tion, but whose courage had failed him at
first sight of the judge and that terrible
array of human faces, which, to his excited
imagination, seemed eager, with a wolfish
hunger, for the shame and misery of a fellow-creature.
There stood his friend, pilloried
before him, the prey of those hungry glances.
Cyril's heart bled for him, but he felt that he
could never stand there in his place. That
Everard's head was bowed and his eyes cast
down beneath that tempest of shame was only
natural ; who could stand before it ?

The judge's summing-up was brief, terse,
and convincing. He had merely to recapitulate
the clear and undisputed evidence — the plea
of alibi was contradicted by Widow Dove's
evidence ; the argument that the prisoner was
not the man whom so many witnesses had
seen returning to the Eectory at five, but that
he was at that moment speaking to Granter
at the wheelwright's corner, was quickly set
aside ; the evidence of the aged, semi-imbecile
creature was scarcely to be relied on against
that of so many competent witnesses, including

the one who had given evidence with
such reluctance ; the attempt to turn the
innocence of two young children to his
own purposes was spoken of in scathing
terms ; the prisoner's nervous and excited
behaviour on the evening of the occurrence
and his garbled account of his injury and
strenuous attempts to conceal it were pointed
out ; the jury were finally exhorted to concentrate
their minds upon the question
whether the prisoner did or did not kill
Benjamin Lee, regardless of all other considerations,
and to allow no thoughts of his
previous unblemished reputation or tenderness
for his rank and prospects to interfere
with their judgment. They were to consider,
the judge said, that although the consequences
of such a crime were undoubtedly
tenfold more terrible to one in the prisoner's
station than to an uneducated man, yet the'
guilt of one with such advantages was tenfold
greater.

When Mr. Hawkshaw heard this, he knew
that not only would the jury return a verdict

against his client, but that the judge would
give him a severe sentence. Yet Cyril hoped;
he remembered that there were twelve menin
the jury.

But he did not hope long ; a few seconds
brought the unanimous verdict. Guilty of
manslaughter — a verdict hailed by a quickly
stifled murmur of approval from the crowded
court.

Like a man suddenly stabbed, Cyril sprang
to his feet, throwing up his arms as men
only do in uncontrollable agony, and addressed
some wild words to the judge. " Stop ! " he
cried ; " I have evidence — important evidence.
The prisoner is innocent ! "

Mr. Justice Manby, who heard merely a
confused outcry, ordered Cyril's removal ; Mr.
Maitland, thinking his son distracted, pulled
him down, and strove to quiet him ; there was
an attempt to remove him, which was met
by promises of good behaviour on the part of
those around him; and, quiet having been procured,
the judge proceeded to give sentence in
the usual form, but with some amplification. .

Henry Oswald Everard, you have been
found guilty," he said, " of a very cruel and
pitiless crime ; whether it was a murder
committed by deliberate and malicious intention
or merely a homicide done in the heat
of anger after considerable provocation is
known only to yourself and your Maker.
By the laws of your country you have
been convicted of the lesser crime, and it
is my painful duty to sentence you for that
crime." He went on to say how very painful
he found that duty, and to expatiate upon
the prisoner's advantages, the pious and
refined home in which he was brought up,
his liberal education, the power which his
scientific knowledge gave him, the advantages
derived from his father's honourable name
and social standing, the manner in which he
was trusted and admitted, a wolf in sheep's
clothing, to the poor man's home. He spoke
of the dead man's integrity, the respect in
which he was held by all who knew him ; of
his only child's fair fame and defenceless
condition, and pointed out the great wickedness

and cruel meanness of the prisoner's
conduct with regard to her, and dwelt much
upon the father's grief and just anger. He
spoke also of the prisoner's physical advantages,
his young manhood and muscular
strength, and contrasted these with Lee's
comparative age and stiffness ; he alluded to
the murderous character of the stick which
dealt the fatal blow, and to the prisoner's
anatomical knowledge which taught him how
to deal it. Those who knew Mr. Justice
Manby had seen him come down hard upon
prisoners before, but they had never known
him so hard. He had once given a wife-killer,
a man who had put the climax to
years of cruel torture by stamping a little
too hard on his slave and killing her, five
years, and people had been aghast ; precisely
similar cases in other parts of the
country had got six weeks or a twelvemonth,
or even two years. But recently the
papers had been sarcastic upon the wife-beaters'
short sentences and upon a prevailing
tone of Victor-Hugo sentimentality towards

criminals, and Mr. Justice Manby had felt
the righteousness of their strictures, and
remembered them in dealing with Everard.
I shall therefore give you'' he concluded,
'' the severest sentence which the law allows
twenty years penal servitude."

The sentence fell upon Everard like a blow ;
he staggered under it, swerved aside, and
clutched at the woodwork of the dock to
steady himself, while hot drops sprang upon
his brow. At the same instant, as if under
the same blow, a cry rang through the court,
and a man fell down senseless. It was Cyril
Maitland.

Everard lifted his head at the cry, and saw
what happened, scarcely heeding it in his
agony ; he saw Lilian, marble pale, but quiet,
catch her brother in her arms, and that
touched him with an ineffable pity for her
through his desperate anguish. He scarcely
heard the question if he had anything to say
against his sentence, but, on being roused,
replied in a dazed way, '' I am not guilty, my
lord."

Then he was taken from his pedestal of
shame, and led away into the terrible darkness
of twenty years' ignominy and hopeless
suffering, bereft at one stroke of everything,
name, fare, fortune (for in those days a
felon's property was forfeited), love, liberty,
and hope.

In a moment he saw his life as it was
but yesterday, before Fate wove its dreadful
mesh round him, a life of honourable and
useful toil, full of noble ambition, beautiful
enthusiasm, and honest striving; rich with
the promise of love and domestic peace ;
happy with friendship and family affection;
adorned with culture and scientific research ;
and rich, above all, with trust in human
goodness and divine mercy. He was now
bereft of all, even of his faith. God, if
there were a God, had forsaken him ; man
had betrayed and deserted him. The remembrance
of Cyril's almost feminine piety
sickened his soul. He saw him kneeling:
before the picture of the Crucifixion with
deadly guilt upon him ; heard him leading

the simple family worship on the day when
he went forth in treachery to take the life
of a man he had wronged ; heard his impassioned,
half-hysterical sermon on Innocents'
Day ; saw him dealing the very Bread of
Life to himself and Lilian ; remembered the
message he had sent him during his detention,
" He shall make thy righteousness clear
as the light, and thine innocence as the noonday
; " and broke forth in curses on all canting
hypocrites who make religion a cloak for
evil deeds.

And he had loved this man so well, trusted
and revered him, fed his soul on his moral
beauty. That was the sharpest stab in the
confusion of pain that poured upon him.
And Marion loved him, and Lilian, and the
guileless family at Malbourne ; and if Cyril
should turn and repent even now at the
eleventh hour, what would come of it but
shame and misery to those he loved so
tenderly ? Should he denounce him himself
— he, the convict ? No ; that would only
double the anguish of all those innocent

hearts, and perhaps avail nothing. If he
had but suspected before ! but now it was too
late.

Soon he would stand in his gaoler's
presence, stripped of his very garments, no
longer a man, but a thing ; called no more by
a name, but a number ; beggared in mind,
body, and soul ; and a stony despair possessed
him. Mr. Hawkshaw thought he might get
five years, he told him, and five years, or
even ten, left some small room for hope.
After five years, youth would not be utterly
gone ; he might still bridge over the gap in
his life. He might go to some new world
and begin over again, wasted by imprisonment,
with five precious years lost, but still
in the prime of his faculties. But twenty
years shut out all hope — twenty years of
early manhood and maturity, cut ofi" from all
sources of mental activity, from all knowledge
of the world and life, the echoes of whose
onward rolling wheels could never reach him ;
chained to manual toil ; herded with the
scum and off-scouring of vice and misery.

Supposing that be survived this awful fate,
what could he expect to be at the end ?

He was glad now that none of bis friends
save Mr. Maitland and George Everard bad
seen him since bis arrest. His fate was
beyond the reach of sympathy or help ; the
only thing now was to keep its contamination
to himself. He refused to take leave of
any one. George had irritated him by untimely
exhortations, by gifts of tracts, and
a disbelief in his innocence, or rather, a
stubborn assumption that he was guilty on
all counts, which astonished him beyond
measure ; Marion sent her love, and would
see him " if he wished ; " his father and two
brothers were still abroad ; and his married
sisters agreed with their husbands that
Henry was dead to them.

But Mr. Maitland procured an interview
after the conviction, and was accompanied
by Lilian. The meeting was brief and
agonized. Lilian's marvellous self-control
kept her outwardly calm, while the calm of
utter despair quieted Everard. He bid her

forget him, think of him as dead ; reminded
her that she had her Hfe to live in the outside
world ; and hoped she would open her
heart to newer and happier affections. Lilian
replied that she never could and never would
forget the one love of her life ; that the cruel
fate which separated them for twenty years
could not cancel the bond between them,
which was eternal. "Besides", she added,
with a sorrowful smile, " your innocence may
yet be proved."

My poor Lilian," he returned, thinking
how bitter such a proof would be for her,
we must not venture to hope for that."

I shall pray for it night and day," replied
Lilian; " and, in the mean time, do not
forget me, Henry. Remember the morning
in the wood, and all that you promised
me.

He turned his face away, and could not
speak for some time ; and Lilian continued in
her quiet way to tell him how grieved Cyril
would be to have missed seeing him, and
how terribly he had suffered by his friend's

calamity. Lilian had only left his bedside
for the short time granted her to bid farewell
to Everard, for Cyril was at death's door.
He had not ceased raving since he recovered
from the fainting-fit into which the passing
of Everard's sentence threw him. All this
Everard heard with the same stony calmness,
which was shaken only by the ineffable pity
he felt for Lilian. It would be better for her
if Cyril should die, he thought, though for
himself it would cut off the last possibility of
escape from dishonour. He sent a tender
message to Marion, thanked Mr. Maitland for
all his kindness, and then it was time for his
friends to go.

I shall never forget you, Henry," Lilian
said, as their hands were clasped in a last
farewell. " I have but one life and one love.
Twenty years' suffering will not make me

love you less. I can never forget you

never."

Lilian's firm lip quivered, as she spoke
these words in a voice the natural music of
which was enhanced by the deepest mingling

of love and sorrow, and the quiver recalled
to Henry's mind the pitiful trembling he had
often seen in Cyril's mouth, the sign of a
fatal inherent weakness of purpose. The
sharpening of her features and the pallor
consequent on mental suffering and intense
emotion, further increased Lilian's likeness to
her twin brother, and Everard felt his heart
rent in twain by a tumult of conflicting feelings
as he took his last long look at the
sorrowful, beloved face.

He could reply only by a look which
haunted Lilian ever after, and by a closer
pressure of the beautiful adored hand, and
then he heard the doors shut with a dreadful
heart-crushing sound behind her.

In that moment of exquisite anguish his
stony despair gave way, for the farewell
between true lovers can never be all pain,
and a holier though deeper agony shook his
heart, mingled with a rush of the old pity
and affection for his friend, and a thousand
thoughts and feelings poignant with joy as
well as sadness, and he dropped his head

upon his hands and cried as Englishmen, and
even English boys, rarely cry. He never
shed such tears again, though the time came
when he would have given worlds for the
power of such a passionate outburst.

Lilian also broke down when the door
closed upon the unfortunate prisoner, and
wept, regardless for once of her father's feelings,
unrestrained by the presence of the
stolid and indifferent prison officials, to
all of whom a woman's tears were a too-familiar
sight, until she regained Tier brother's
room, and took her part in placing ice on his
burning head, and listening to his incessant
ravings of battles and music and churches,
and his frequent calls to Lilian to protect
him from some shadowy and awful terror.
Then Lilian would lay her hands gently and
firmly upon him, and tell him she was there,
and nothing should hurt him ; and then sometimes
a dim glimmering of consciousness
would return to his wild and vacant gaze
for a moment, and he would be quieter fora
time ; till at last, after a long and weary

time, one day, when Lilian felt that her
strength was quite at an end, he looked up
with a glance of recognition and spoke her
name.

Then they were told that he would live,
but whether his reason would ever return to
him depended greatly upon his treatment
during convalescence.

A peace above all earthly dignities,
A still and quiet conscience."

VOL. II.

The full glory of late summer brooded in
afternoon stillness over the golden harvest-fields,
the grey dreamy downs, the deep-shadowed
woods, and the soft azure glimpses
of sea around Malbourne. Everything seemed
wrapped in rich, delicious luxury. Improvident
boys revelled in blackberries, and
stormed their friends' heavily laden fruit-trees ;
while provident squirrels watched the swelling
acorns and hazel-nuts, and prepared little
granaries for storing them when ripe. The
sun had drawn the richest tones of colour
from everything — from the eddying apple
and purpling plum ; from the brown-gold
corn and brilliant wayside flowers ; from the
dark green woods and purple clover patches ;
from the bronzed faces and limbs of the

labourers and children ; from the cottage
gardens, bright with scarlet-runner, vegetable
marrow, and rich fruit. Passing down
the village street, you could scarcely seethe
thatched cottages for the flowers about
them, the gay hollyhocks standing like
homely sentinels among the red snapdragons,
geraniums, carnations, and gillyflowers ; while
the Rectory grounds were gay with their
fullest bloom, and the redspur valerian climbed
over the low churchyard wall, and red poppies
blazed through the corn, which stood ready
for the sickle on the other side.

The yellow lichens and stonecrop on the
grey spire and tiled roof of the church glowed
intensely in the sleepy sunshine, into which
a warm haze had brought a ruddy tint, and
the blue sky gazed, softened and dreamy,
through the same hazy veil. Down from the
belfry, standing there in the sweet blue, fell
the slow, drowsy chime of the three old mellow
bells, and floated pleasantly over the quiet,
basking fields, where cows stood withdrawn
beneath the trees, chewing contentedly, with

lazily winking eyes and whisking tails ; and
the horses fed serenely, not knowing that
they would have to drag all that rich harvest
home before long ; and the little brook
babbled faintly, because of the great heat
which consumed it.

Service was over, and people were straggling
home through fields or lounging at
garden gates in idleness and Sunday clothes,
though the full male toilet was subdued by
a tendency to shirt-sleeves. Gleaner was
holding forth to a select circle outside the
low wall of the churchyard, where he was
wont to bask in the sun, like some novel
species of lizard, the summer long. Farmer
Long was wending his way slowly homewards
with his family, fill of thought. He
had decided to cut his first wheat-field, half
a mile off, on the morrow, and lo ! he saw
that the corn through which they were passing
was over-ripe and crying out for the
sickle.

Farmer Long was puzzled. He could not
think why Providence made the corn ripe

all at once, when it was obvious that it
could not all be cut, much less carried, at
the same time. " You may depend upon
it," his wife told him, " Providence have got
plenty to do without thinking o' your earn,
Long. Cutting of it and carrying is our
look-out. All Providence have to do is to
put it there for us, and thankful we must be
there's any to cut." Which Mr. Long reflected
upon over his pipe after tea, not without
a remote inward conviction that he would
have made better arrangements himself.

Sunday afternoon is the great time for
sweethearts. Many a shy couple detached
itself from the straggling parties going homewards,
and wandered off through wood and
field-paths and green lanes, for the most part
silent, but contented, if not happy, and full
of more unspoken poetry than the world
dreams of.

It is a melancholy time for the forsaken or
scorned swain, who cocks his felt hat in
vain, and whose bunch of carnation or
hollyhock, jauntily stuck in his hatband,

avails him nothing in the eyes of the cruel
fair. It was the hour when Charles Judkins's
misplaced passion gave him the most exquisite
pangs ; an hour which he usually spent
in solitary brooding, chiefly by the brookside,
where he was wont to lean on a certain
stile, shaded appropriately by willows, and
pore upon the brook that babbled by," just
like the unfortunate youth in Gray's "Elegy."
And let no prosaic child of culture, who has
outlived the young days when there was
nothing so sweet as the misery of crossed
love, think scorn of our friend, or laugh at
true love because it wears livery and top-boots.
A garb more antipathetic to romance
than that of a spruce groom's livery scarcely
exists, but it could not kill the romance in
Charlie Judkins's honest breast. He was
dreaming of what might have been but for
the sin of one bad man.

A pretty cottage filled his mind's eye,
a cottage with a porch and honeysuckle and
roses, standing in a garden, not too far
from the Swaynestone stables, with beehives

and flowers, and fruit, and vegetables,
all grown by himself in leisure hours. He
pictured to himself the neat parlour, with a
clock, a sofa, and a carpet. In a low chair,
by the window or fire according to season,
he saw a beautiful woman, with rich, dark
eyes which brightened at his step, and
damask cheeks which took a deeper glow at
his return. There she would be with her
needle, busy, happy, honoured, loving, and
loved.

Charlie's eyes clouded with tears so that
the vision vanished, and only the brown
brook, with its imprisoned sunbeams, met
his sorrowful gaze. But the Malbourne
bells pealed drowsily on, as he had so often
dreamed they would peal for his wedding,
when he should issue from the familiar porch,
the proudest and happiest of men, with Alma
dear Alma — in all her rich beauty, on his
arm.

He turned hastily away, dashing the foolish
moisture from his honest blue eyes, and struck
aimlessly along the footpath, thinking how

her life, sorely awry as it was, might yet be
put straight. " If I could only see her happy
and respected again ! " was his thought, ashe
strode along, consumed by no selfish grief.
Presently he stopped at a gate, half overgrown
with briar and hawthorn, and saw a
sight which filled him with the tenderest
emotion.

On the other side of the brook, in a
grassy corner between a coppice and a field
of ripe wheat which rose upwards from the
banks of the little stream, was Alma herself,
sitting on a felled tree, and watching the play
of a child at her feet on the grass. Her
shawl and bonnet were thrown aside, and her
plain, well-fitting, black dress showed her
beautiful form to the best advantage. There
was now a statuesque majesty about her
which matched well with the tragedy never
absent from her proud, defiant eyes. That
habitual expression which goes so far towards
making up the identity of a human
being was so changed in Alma, and her
features were so sharpened by her terrible

experience of life, that to any eye but that of
love she was no longer the same girl as she
who had ridden home in the grey winter
gloaming, happy and innocent, to the rustic
music of the waggon-bells.

The dark green of the coppice and the deep
gold of the corn rising behind her gave her a
picturesque background, while the beautiful
boy playing in the grass at her feet made such
a foreground as any artist must have loved.
The child was dressed daintily in white, with
blue ribbons, and with wreaths of pink convolvulus
wound about him. Alma had placed
a bunch of scarlet poppies in her own dress to
attract his eye, and was looking at him with
a mournful, impassioned gaze, while he held
up a tiny finger and bid her hark to the music
of the wedding-bells which were ringing to
honour the return of Cyril Maitland and his
young bride to England and to Malbourne,
where they arrived only the night before.

Two springs had scattered flowers on Ben
Lee's untimely grave in Malbourne Churchyard,
two summers had thrown their golden

glory upon it, and the months which softened
the hard letters on his headstone, and braided
the turfy mound above him with mosses, had
strengthened and developed the round limbs
and brought intelligence to the bright eyes
of the second Ben Lee, whose innocent life
began so dolorously where his grandfather's
had ended tragically.

It pleased Alma to fancy resemblances to
her father in the infant's sweet face, and
the tenderest feeling in her life now was
the occasional fancy that the child's beauty
and pretty ways might have softened her
father's heart, and perhaps have induced him
to pardon the dishonour she had brought on
his honest home. She dreamed of their going
away to some new place, where they were not
known, and where she might pass as a
widow, and do her best to atone for the evil
past. Or, at least, he might have loved the
child, if he could not have forgiven her.

But harder and more bitter thoughts were
passing through Alma's mind as she sat by
the brook that sunny afternoon, and smiled

mournfully on the laughing child and heard
this soft prattle ringlet with the babbling
brook's slow song and the lingering chime of
Cyril Maitland's wedding-bells.

She was thinking how she would like to go
away, far away to some unfamiliar land, where
her sin and sorrow were unknown, and where
she might begin life afresh, and earn a good
name and honourable up-bringing for her son.
Her step-mother had, as she expressed it,
washed her hands of her after her father's
death, and she lived alone in a humble
cottage lodging, trying to earn her bread by
her needle, or, indeed, by any industry that
lay within her power, and hoping in time to
live down her reproach.

But it was not so easy to get work in
Malbourne. All classes shunned her ; even
the gentle Rector, who would otherwise have
given her a helping hand, could not overcome
his horror of the woman who had
betrayed Henry Everard to so terrible a fate,
and wished her away from his parish, offering,
indeed, to help her, if she would but go.

Still Alma clung to the spot which held
her parents' graves, and fought manfully
against the wall of prejudice which rose
around her, eating the bread of tears and
bitter humiliation in secret, though she met
the averted faces or contemptuous words of
her former friends with heroic calm in
public, but got scarcely any work. Ben Lee
had put by a considerable sum of money for
one in his station, and this was divided by
his will between his wife and his daughter.
Upon this little capital Alma had been living,
till she woke to the mournful conviction that
there was no bread for her to win in Malbourne,
and also that a day would soon come
when her patrimony would be exhausted.

Money found its way mysteriously to her
cottage — money from a source well known
to her — for the child's support ; but Alma
scorned to use it, and, being unable to return
it without betraying the giver, put it aside for
the infant's use in case of her death or any
emergency. Like most women of any force
of character, who are thrown on their own

resources, after a time she began to realize
how feeble a being one woman is against a
world of strong men and iron prejudices and
cruel convictions. She could defy the world,
but she could not conquer it. She was too
ignorant to quarrel with the social arrangements
which handicap the weakness of sex
with extra weights, and brand its errors
as crimes, but a dim sense of injustice
struggled within her and still further confused
the moral perceptions already confused
by error and crime.

She knew she could not expect Heaven's
aid, with the crime of repented perjury
upon her soul ; but before the heavy hour
when she stood in the sight of Grod and man
and swore away the honour and liberty of
an innocent man, she had had gleams of
penitence, when she had hoped to make her
peace with Heaven, and lead a holy life.
After that further plunge into crime, she
could hope for no mercy unless she undid
her dreadful deed.

But though Alma went to church and

prayed for the helpless child, who could not
pray for himself, and hoped at least to place
his little feet on the heavenward road, she
thought daily less of heaven, and was fast
sinking into the dreadful practical atheism to
which sin leads — the atheism which, because
it sins on unavenged, cries, " Tush ! God
doth not regard," and finally blots the Maker
out of the universe altogether.

Alas, poor Alma ! she was made for a
nobler destiny, and her honest lover, seeing
her there, with her mournful gaze and heroic
beauty, felt his heart thrill with a vague sense
that, in spite of her frailty, she was not
unworthy of his passionate adoration. His
heart told him what his untutored mind
never could, that hers was no common frailty,
but the lapse of an exceptionally noble nature
led astray, and all his hope was to set her up
again on the pedestal whence a villain's arts
had hurled her.

So absorbed was she in melancholy musing,
that for a long time she did not observe him,
and he enjoyed a pensive rapture in the mere

sense of her presence and the sight of her
tragic beauty, so well set off by the glowing
hues of the golden corn, with the poppies
blazing through it, by the dark wood, and by
the bright appearance of the pretty child
in his ribbons and flowers. He would have
liked some enchanter to fix them there forever,
while the child and the brook babbled,
the bees hummed, the grasshopper uttered his
shrill note of joy, and the bells pealed on
from the hidden tower. He watched the
changes of her face with compassionate
yearning ; he saw the pain deepen in it.
She was thinking of that morning's experience.


She had been on her way to church as
usual, a solitary figure in the straggling
crowd of friends and neighbours, when those
in front of her pressed back from the lydgate
to let a group of gentlefolk pass, and
Alma found herself one of a little line of
church-goers, with whom they exchanged
greetings. Mrs. Maitland and Lilian came
first, then Cyril and Marion, lastly the

children. Alma made her curtsey with her
usual proud humility, looking her superiors
in the face with haughty calm.

Cyril recognized his old friends with the
stances which he knew so well how to distribute,
missing Alma's face with the ease and
naturalness of good breeding ; but Marion's
eye lighted on the beautiful face of the ruined
girl, and Alma never forgot the hot flush of
shame and the start of shuddering aversion
with which she turned to her husband, pressing
close to his side as if for protection, or
the exquisite tenderness of the look Cyril
gave her, as he returned the pressure on his
arm, and quickened his pace to lead Marion
away from the sight which so distressed her.
The burning blood sprang to Alma's face,
her temples throbbed wildly, and in the
tumult of mingled passion which convulsed
her, the impulse of a tigerish fury surged up,
and bade her rush before Marion's face, and
hurl her to the ground with one blast of truth
shouted out in the ears of the little public
standing near.

VOL. II. M

In five words she could bring Marion's pride
for ever to the dust, and blight all the happiness
of her life. But the impulse sank amid the
roar of other passions, and Alma remained outwardly
quiet, passing sedately up the churchyard
path among the others, into the cool,
hushed church, where the words of benediction
and hope sounded in vain for her.

The poignant memory of Marion's look
made her eyes flash and her bosom heave in
the sunny stillness by the brook-side, and with
a deep sigh and a gesture of pain she looked
up and met poor Charlie's adoring gaze.

In a moment, the gate on which he leant
was cleared, the bit of meadow crossed, the
brook leapt, and he stood before her, joyously
welcomed by the child, who had too few
friends not to appreciate this one, to whom
he owed many a toy and cake and still more
welcome game of play.

Alma," Judkins cried, taking off his hat
that the child might play with its gold band,
dear, dear Alma, it cuts into my heart to
see you looking so sorrowful,"

Never mind me, Charlie," she replied,
with a wan smile. " I brought it all on
myself, and no one can help me. Go away,
please ; it will do neither of us any good to
be seen together."

One minute, Alma," he protested ; " let
me speak out once more. I love you so true.
Alma, so true ; I can't give you up. Let
bygones be bygones, and do you try to care
for me. It's what your poor father always
wished, my dear, and what might have been,

if villains It's bygones. Alma, bygones,

and can't be helped anyway now ; but you med
have taken me in time, if that hadn't come
between us, and you med be happy yet. I'll
be a good husband ; I'll be a father to that
innocent child that is fond of me already.
In another place nobody need know he isn't
mine, and I'll never bring up the past again
you — never. There's a many have begun life
similar, and no trouble between them."

It would be wronging you, Charlie,"
replied Alma ; " you are too good for the like
of me. I could never care for you as a wife

ought. I loved too true once, and I can
never Jove any more. We are only young
once, and we can only love once," she said,
expressing Lilian's thought in other words.
No, Charles, I mustn't take advantage of
you ; you must go and forget me."

Look here. Alma ! that's true about only
loving once ; and do you think, if I couldn't
forget you after what has come between us,
I ever could now ? No, my dear. I love
you true, and ever shall, and all I want is to
make you happy, that has been wronged."

Alma burst into tears, and bid him not
think too well of her, for that she had
grievously sinned.

And if we are only young once, you are
still young," he continued ; " you have a deal
of life yet to live, and no soul to look to but
me. And he is as good as dead, and that
makes a difference. Take me, Alma, and
you'll maybe get fonder of me than you
think. Consider the child, too. You'll never
get work in Malbourne ; and howell you get
it where you are not known ? "

Alma was crying bitterly ; he had never
seen her in so accessible a mood before.

I mean to go away," she sobbed.

Then Judkins unfolded his cherished project
before her. " Come right away with me,
my dear ; come to America, where we can
begin over again fresh, and no soul to cast
anything up against us ; and you may be
happy and honoured — ay, and more thought
of than people so humble as us can ever
hope to be in the old country. I've a sister
there, out West, married and went out four
years ago; and they are rich people now,
with more land of their own than Sir Lionel
ever had, and all their own doing. There's
land to be got almost for the asking, and
nothing wanting but a pair of stout hands
to make it covered with crops such as
never grow in poor old England. Think,
my dear, if this corn-field here and half a
dozen more was all ours, and we married,
with a comfortable house and horses and
garden, and our own wood to burn, and cattle
and poultry, besides the wild game to feed

US, and nothing known agen us, low happy we
niiglit be ! My sister's husband, he's a great
ran out there, and a precious poor chap he
was here, to be sure. Little Benjy would
thrive out in the woods, and grow up to have
land of his own, and never know but I was
his father. And he should share equal with
others as might be sent us, he should. I
never do nothing by halves, Alma ; and if
I said that boy was my son, my son he should
be, you may depend upon it. I've spoken to
Sir Lionel about it, and he has wrote to
several that manage about ships and expenses
and all that ; and I've a tidy bit of money put
by, and my sister, she writes every year, and
recommends me to come out West ; and there's
no tie to keep me here, and you've only to
say the word, and we'd have the banns up
next Sunday ; and I'd give warning tomorrow,
for I'm tired of service, though Sir
Lionel's is the best, and ready to leave the
land where I've seen so much trouble, aud
we'd be married, and maybe started from
Liverpool, this day five weeks. Alma, dear, I

can't go and leave you; and you wouldn't
blight my prospects and keep me back — ay,
and the child — from making my fortune,
would you ? "

You are a good man, Charles Judkins,"
replied Alma, drying her eyes ; " you deserve
better than to be hampered with such as me.
You might find a good girl out there you
could marry."

There was a wistful look in Alma's eyes,
that emboldened Judkins to paint their future
in still more glowing terms, and urge his suit
more ardently than ever ; and the end was
that, when they strolled slowly back towards
Alma's cottage in the eddying sunshine, a
bunch of white stephanotis and maidenhair
from the Swaynestone conservatories had
strayed from Charlie's coat to Alma's black
dress, and Alma's scarlet poppies drooped in
glowing languor on the young fellow's honest
breast, while the boy's bright head lay sleeping
on his arm.

The bells had ceased now, and the swallows
were sweeping round the grey belfry, bathed

in sunlight, and uttering their peculiar
twitter. Wider and wider grew the circles
they made, now in search of prey, now in
chase of each other, now in mere delight
in airy motion, over the Rectory roof and
across the lawn, where a pleasant group was
gathered, to one of whom their sunny breasts
and curving flight brought sorrowful thoughts
of a lonely prisoner, for whom she had
translated Gross's exquisite " Rondinella
Peregrine " long ago.

Oh se ancli 'io ! ma lo contend
Quest bassa augusta volta,
Dove '1 sole non risplende,
Dove '1 aria anchor mee tota,
Done a te la mia catella
Giunge appetite, oli, rondinella ! "

she was murmuring inwardly, as her glance
followed the birds of happy liberty in their
graceful gyrations against the lucid sky.

Lilian was making tea at a rustic table
beneath the lindens on the lawn ; Mrs.
Maitland lay on a couch near her ; Marion
reclined in a low-slung hammock, with one
slender foot touching the turf as she swayed

to and fro ; Cyril lounged in a low garden
chair close at band, very much at his ease, yet
ready to hold her cup and plate, and do her
bidding ; Mr. Maitland, placid and revelling
in the thought that be need preach, no more
for a week, had another garden lounge, and
asked for his third cup of tea ; Lennie lay
on his back, staring at the sky, with one leg
crossed over the other, and pointing heavenwards
; while Winnie's golden curls were
straying over the shoulder of Ingram Sandstone,
who sat near Lilian, and held the child
leaning against him encircled by one arm,
while he watched the graceful movements of
the tea-maker, and delighted in the slim
beauty of her hands.

Some stone fruit and a cluster of purple
and one of white grapes on the tea-table
made a splendid centre of colour beneath the
golden green of the sunlit lindens. It was
a sweet and happy scene, peaceful, contented,
and free, very different from the solitary
prison-cell which the swallows suggested to
Lilian's imagination. They had been talking

as people talk over tea-tables ; Cyril had
given some droll accounts of things which
had amused him in his recent travels. There
had been happy laughter and jesting, and
now a pleasant silence, which no one wished
to break, had fallen on the little party.

Then it was that Winnie had one of her
startling visitations of thoughtfulness, and
burst out as follows, in her clear, high treble : —
Papa, I wonder how Alma Lee likes having
to go to hell ? "

My dear little girl, what are you talking
about?" returned the gentle rector, startled
out of his peaceful day-dream.

"Well, you see, she must go there," protested
Winnie, with deep earnestness ; " it
can't be helped now she has broken two
commandments — the third and the ninth."

Hush, dear ! " said Lilian ; " you must
not talk of such things. Besides, let. us hope
poor Alma repents."

How can she repent with poor Henry still
in prison ? " demanded Winnie, fiercely lifting
her head and tossing back her golden mane.

We must, at least, hope that poor Alma
will repent before she comes to die, dear,"
said Mr. Maitland ; " but it is not for anyone,
least of all one so young as you, to judge
her. But you may pray for her."

'besides," added Mrs. Maitland, "we do
not know that Alma has broken those commandments."


'' Oh, don't we, though ! " cried Lennie,
throwing himself round to face his mother ;
when she told all those lies about Henry
and his grey suit. Why, Henry changed his
clothes before lunch, because he got them
dirty walking with Lilian."

If Henry changed his clothes before
luncheon, Lennie," said Cyril, quietly, " why
did you not say so at the time ? "

Lennie's memory is scarcely to be trusted
after so great a lapse of time," said his father.
He probably thought the circumstance
possible and desirable, and then came to
accept it unconsciously as a fact. Moreover,
is it probable that such a circumstance would
escape every one's notice but Lennie's ? "

Dear father," interposed Lilian, " can
you recall what Henry wore on that fatal
day ? I never could ; there is so little
variety in gentlemen's dress. Did Marion
remember ? "

Marion was crying at the memory of those
harrowing events. " I remember perfectly,"
she replied, " that Henry wore a black
coat at luncheon that day. He got some
mustard on the cuff, and I helped him to take
it off."

Why did you never say so ? " cried
Lilian. '' Oh, Marion, you and Lennie might
have saved him ! "

You are very cruel, Lilian, to say such a
thing ! " returned Cyril, with an angry flash
in his blue eyes. " Henry's dress at luncheon
would have proved nothing with regard to
his subsequent dress, although it is plain
enough to us that he would not have changed
again. You should not put such harrowing
thoughts into Marion's mind. I thought,
too, that this painful theme was not to be
discussed."

"Well, Alma will have to go to hell all
the same," returned Lennie, with conviction.
I don't care," he added, on being rebuked
by Cyril for his sweeping judgment and
strong language ; " it's in the Bible about
liars having their part in fire and brimstone,
and with all your preaching you can't preach
it out."

Cyril pressed his hand to his side with the
old gesture, and a low moan escaped him.
His face was grey with pain, and the drops
of anguish stood on his brow. " I cannot
bear this," he gasped.

My poor boy ! " sighed Mr. Maitland ;
we have been too cruel in re-opening this
deadly wound. Come with me. Come,
Marion, dry your eyes. I want to show
you my bees, real Ligurians ; and you must
tell me, both of you, what you think of my
hives."

They strolled away accordingly, leaving
the remainder of the tea-party, and particularly
the youthful preacher, Lennie,
aghast.

"Mrs. Maitland," asked Ingram Sandstone,
who had by no means enjoyed this
unexpected airing of the family skeleton,
when are you going to muzzle this brat ? "

CHAPTER II.

Just then a lusty baritone voice was heard
in the lane, which was sunk out of sight
between the Rectory and Northover grounds,
singing joyously —

Maxwelton braes are bonnie,
Where early fa's the dew,
And 'tis there that Annie Laurie
Died me her promise true —
Died me her promise true,
Which ne'er forgot will be ;
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I'll lay me toon and dee."

Catch him seeing," observed Ingram,
sarcastically.

"A precious rum song for a Sunday,"
added Lennie, whose virtuous frame of mind
was rather trying in its intensity.

'' I'd lay me toon and dee," sang the

unconscious minstrel at the very top of his
compass.

"No, you wouldn't," Lennie shouted.

Then they walked across the lawn, peeped
over the hedge, and saw Judkins stepping
gaily homewards, with Alma's scarlet poppies
in his coat. Judkins looked up, startled, and
stopped, blushing, in the emission of his
highest note.

I beg your pardon, Mr. Swaynestone," he
replied, respectfully saluting ; " but indeed I
would."

Well, I think you would, Judkins, you
foolish fellow," returned Ingram, laughing.
What is the meaning of this festive cheer,
may I ask ? Why rouse the echoes of Malbourne
with the sounds of riot and mirth ? "

Sir," replied Judkins, " I'm engaged to
be married. To-morrow I give warning, and
in five weeks' time I hope to sail for America."

Let me recover, Lennie," said Ingram,
after having congratulated the fortunate
swain, and sent him on his way. " And
look here, young one, not a word of this to

any one. And please to remember that
tragedies are not discussed over teapots, and
ladies are not supposed to know anything
unpleasant, and, above all, that people never
publicly allude to their relations when in
gaol."

"wasn't me; 'twas Win began it," growled
Lennie. " Besides, you are nobody. You
are always here at tea-time. You are going
in for Lilian, it's my belief. You do nothing
but stare at her like a great gowk."

You are a promising young party, upon
my word," observed Ingram, picking him up
by the jacket-collar. " Marvyn should whop
you more."

So saying, he carried the struggling boy-back
to the tea-drinkers and deposited him
in the fork of a tree, where he bid him remain,
under pain of chastisement, while he and
Winnie aimed handkerchiefs and other missiles
at him, unmindful for a moment of Alma
Lee's affairs.

Lilian was trying to get Mark Antony
to accept a saucer of cream, on which the

VOL. II. N

haughty favourite perpetually turned his back,
or rather tail, with cool disdain ; while Snip
and Snap watched it with eager eyes, knowing
that Mark's final rejection of the dainty
would consign it to them.

"There are moments," said Ingram, who
watched the scene with a sort of impatient
interest, " when a man might envy a cat."

Lilian assured him that there was plenty
of cream in the dairy, if he would like some ;
and Mr. Maitland and Marion returned — the
latter still looking troubled — when it became
painfully apparent to Mr. Swaynestone that
he had already lingered longer in the family
circle than he should have done, and he
regretfully took his leave.

Lilian looked after him with a half-pained
gaze as he went to the gate, accompanied by
her father ; then she returned to Marion.
Where is Cyril ? " she asked.

It is his hour for private devotion," she
replied, speaking in a voice intended only
for Mrs. Maitland and Lilian, the children
having set off down the drive to bid their

playfellow another good-bye. " I sometimes
wish," she added, with a sigh, "that Cyril
were not quite so devout."

Dear child, that is a bad wish," rebuked
Mrs. Maitland.

He will be upset for at least a day," continued
Marion, abstractedly, " and will see
none of us. He is still so sensitive; the
least reference to my poor brother invariably
has this effect. I was the last transgressor,"
continued Marion, with a sorrowful smile.
It was at Chillon. When we were in that
dreadful crypt by Bonnivard's pillar, somebody
began to quote Byron's 'Prisoner' — some tiresome
tourist. I could not help it, Lilian, but
the thought of being shut up all those years ;
the thought that Henry, who read those very
lines so unthinkingly on that fatal day, as

you told me, was actually suffering Oh,

dear ! " added Marion, checking a sob. '' I
turned and asked Cyril to take me away from
that dreadful place. Heaven knows what I
said. Something about my unfortunate
brother, I suppose. Well, Cyril fainted.

He told me then that I must never speak of
him."

He will grow less sensitive as his health
improves and his happiness becomes more
habitual," Mrs. Maitland said, trying to soothe
the agitated girl.

It would be more manly in Cyril, and
far better for him, if he would but accept the
fact, and make up his mind to meet it
bravely," said Lilian. " He cannot go on
in tslii way ; his long illness has spoiled him.
I must speak to him "

Oh, Lilian ! " interposed Marion, " pray
don't speak to him ! He can't bear it, indeed.
You will only make matters far worse, indeed
■ — indeed ! You think you understand Cyril,
but you are mistaken. You are not his wife.
I have been his wife only two months, but
I know more about him than I ever knew of
any human being before."

And the knowledge had taken the careless
gaiety from Marion's manner and the youthful
ring from her laughter. It was not
without reason that she vaunted her fresh

matronly dignity, and said, with half-sad
playfulness, " I am older than you now,
Lilian — years, years older."

We must bear with dear Cyril," said
Mr. Maitland, who had joined them. " Suffering
of unusual severity has been laid upon
him, his whole life has received a shock, and
we must remember that we saved his reason
only as by a miracle. Even now his mind is
not firmly balanced. Marion must heal that
mind as only she can. But Cyril will bear
the scars of this furnace all his life, poor lad.
We must not marvel that he is changed."

Every one recognized the fierceness of the
furnace through which Cyril had passed,
leaving his youth behind, and yet it never
struck people that the blow was naturally
more severe to Lilian. Even Mr. Maitland,
with the memory of Lilian's passionate
outburst when she confided the story of
Everard's love to him, did not reflect that it
makes a greater shipwreck of life to lose a
lover than a friend. The tragedy of Cyril's
youth threw an additional glamour over

him for the remainder of his life ; his deep
friendship and the sensitiveness which made
him grieve to the point of losing his reason
and almost his life over a brother's shame
invested him with a romantic interest which
never faded. It was whispered about in
after years, with various modifications and
additions, but always to Cyril's credit, long
after the trial and the catastrophe to the
Everard were forgotten.

The illness with which Cyril had been
stricken on hearing Everard's terrible doom
left its marks on him for life. No one could
say how he was changed, but it was certain
that he was never the same man again.
During the slow process of recovery, he was
for months like a child in intellect, living
only for trifles, laughing at a mere nothing,
speaking only as a child speaks, reading
nothing but the lightest literature, and preferring
that specially consecrated to boys'
amusement, and, above all, strictly forbidden
to approach any painful topic in thought or
speech.

The day that saw him out of danger saw
Lilian on a bed of sickness, from which she
arose almost as weak as Cyril. The twins
made their convalescence together, Lilian
outstripping her brother in their progress
towards health, and their physical weakness —
especially Cyril's, which was excessive — made
it easy for them to avoid mental exertion.
They were told to lead an animal life, and
they became boy and girl at holiday once
more.

For months neither of them breathed
Henry's name, or alluded to the events which
had ended so tragically for him. Gradually
Cyril's reason, the delicate chords of which
had been so cruelly strained, resumed its
natural tone, and Lilian, who watched him
like a mother, supplied his intellect from day
to day with stronger food. First she had
occupied his vacant moments with manual
employments — wood-carving, painting, and
even needlework, which he executed in the
early days, while she read to him. Then she
advanced him to gardening and the tending

of pet animals, and singing with her ; thence
to an interest in public affairs. As he progressed,
and began to talk calmly and seriously,
she extended his reading, took him back to
old favourite classic authors, and got him to
translate these and modern poets into English
verse, for which he had a graceful knack ;
and one day when he brought her a fresh
copy of original verses, she felt that her
patient was healed, and determined to send
him away from her.

You have saved his intellect," his physician
said, when she showed him the verses,
and 1 must confess that I had very little
hope of such a consummation. No one with
a less intimate knowledge of your brother's
character could have done what you have
done. You have in so doing saved a remarkably
fine, if delicate, mental organization."


Then Cyril travelled for some months in
Greece, Egypt, and Syria — countries particularly
interesting to one of his temperament
and education. He revelled in the poetic

and historic associations of tLe ancient homes
of letters and arts, and poured out his soul
in devotional ecstasy on the hallowed soil of
Jerusalem and Nazareth. He also wrote a
poem, called " The Knight of Expiation," in
blank verse.

The " knight," it appeared, was visited by
one of those unlucky excesses of virtue which
the vulgar call crimes, and for which public
opinion usually exacts the reparation of
hanging in these prosaic days. The nature
of this virtuous excess was discreetly left to
the reader's imagination, a la Byron, and
was thus as horrible as the most fastidious
taste could desire. (Lennie inclined to the
opinion that the knight had boiled his grandmother,
and played dice with her bones,
besides practising the black art.)

The furies of conscience having seized
upon this unlucky victim of social prejudices,
as M. Hugo et Che. call criminals, he put on
a hair shirt, and went to the Holy Land todo
penance at its shrines, and returned to his
native shores to be canonized. This plot

afforded fine scope for Cyril's descriptive and
topographical powers, and admitted of a
beautiful account of the knight's feelings on
first seeing Jerusalem, which would have
been more generally admired if it had not
reminded people so strongly of a similar
passage in Tasso. The character of the
knight had unfortunately been anticipated by
Byron in Child Harold. Nevertheless, the
pretty volume, called "The Knight's Expiation,
and other Poems," was greatly admired,
if not purchased.

Marion had seen Cyril frequently during
his convalescence, and had only parted with
him at the beginning of his tour ; and in the
second June after his illness, her father took
her to Paris, where Cyril met her, and was
quietly married to her. The young couple
passed a brief paradise in Switzerland, and
then went home to Malbourne, whence, after
a few days' sojourn, they were to go to Cyril's
fresh curacy in the west of London. The
twins had, however, been parted since the
time when Lilian finished her pious task of

rescuing her brother's intellect from the shipwreck
which threatened it.

They had met again but four and twenty
hours since, yet Lilian knew their old close
relationship was at an end for ever. An
insurmountable barrier had risen up between
them. This, she told herself, was but in the
natural course of things ; the peculiar bond
of twinship, strengthened as it had accidentally
been by the circumstances of Cyril's terrible
illness, could not be expected to outlive early
youth. Her brother had now found other
ties ; he was tasting the fulness of life. The
old childish associations must fade in the full
stress of manhood, and they must now be
only as brothers and sisters commonly are.
It was only natural, and yet it grieved
Lilian with an unspeakable grief. In the
sore trouble which had fallen on her, she
needed her brother's close friendship as she
never had done before.

As Marion had predicted, they saw nothing
more of Cyril that night ; but the next day
he appeared among them with a cloudless

brow, and set them all laughing with his
droll anecdotes and observations, the drollery
of which was so greatly enhanced by his
grave face and almost pathetic voice. He
never laughed, and only rarely smiled, and
although his very smile was sad, it was as
sweet as only rare smiles are. One of those
smiles was sufficient to win a friend for life,
as he well knew. There had been a time
when he was wont to laugh as happily and
heartily as only young manhood can.

There was a great croquet-tournament that
afternoon at Mr. Marvyn's, and there the
Maitlandss, the younger Garrets and Sandstones
assembled, to measure their powers
one against the other with all the serious
ardour which the pursuit of croquet in the
palmy days of its youth exacted.

Will no bard arise to pour forth lyric song
in honour of that noble but now extinct
pastime ? Can no historian be found to
chronicle the decline and fall of croquet ? It
descended, like other gifts of Heaven, unexpectedly
from some far celestial eminence,

and took captive the hearts of the sons, and
still more of the daughters, of men, at one
stroke. In those who were young at that
golden period, the peculiar sharp yet dull
click of the balls still awakes a thrilling
combination of delicious and romantic feelings,
as it is evoked by the hand of some
careless child, who has routed out the dusty
mallets and balls from some forgotten corner,
and imagines himself a new Columbus inconsequence.


Mr. Marvyn, who, it will be remembered,
was curate of Malbourne and tutor to the
young Maitlandss in succession, had been very
severely bitten by the croquet mania. He
had ruthlessly levelled his wife's flower-beds
to make a fitting ground for the noble
pastime, and this he mowed and rolled and
watered himself, and upon it he permitted
no unlicensed foot to stray.

When the players arrived, they found every
hoop and stick exactly placed, after careful
and accurate measurement, on a lawn newly
shaven and tested by a spirit-level, and a

host and hostess too much burdened with the
responsibility of reading the new club rules
to go through the conventional forms of
welcome.

An interlude of tea was grudgingly
acquiesced in ; and Mr. Marvyn, laying aside
his own favourite mallet with a deep sigh,
and carefully noting the position of each
player in his pocket-book, followed his guests
to some tables in the shade of two fine elms,
and, taking a chair by Mrs. Cyril Maitland,
began to scold her seriously for the blunders
she had made, and laughed at, which was
worse, while playing on his side. But there
were some people, and among them Ingram
Swaynestone, who took his tea on the grass
at Lilian's feet, who thought the tea interlude
by no means the least agreeable part of the
tournament, and responded with little alacrity
to Mr. Marvyn's summons to continue the
combat.

Night fell all too soon upon the eager
contest, and the light of the mellow August
moon was supplemented by that of two

carriage-lamps, which were carried from
hoop to hoop, to the great distraction of
nervous people ; while the less-ardent players,
resigning their balls to others, joined the
non-combatants in the drawing-room, and
yielded themselves to the frivolity of conversation
and music.

Poets are made of precious queer stuff,"
Ingram Swaynestone observed to Lilian, as
they stood on the lawn, waiting their turn to
play, and listened to a song which Miss
Swaynestone was singing. " Now, what
could have put that notion into Cyril's head ?
I'm sure he never left off loving anybody."

The song which Cyril had written, and
which had been daintily set by an Austrian
student he met in his travels, was as
follows : —

When I began to love you,
'Twas like the beginning of June,
Like the dewy birth of the morning
Or the swell of the first lark's tune.

*' All grew so bright, so gracious,
So full of mystery sweet,
Such a deep and dear enchantment
Had bound me, hands and feet.

*' But when T finished to love you,
'Twas like the closing of night,
When November's gloaming is sheeted
In rain-clouds falling light.

Ah ! when I finished to love you,
I finished with all things bright,
And I saw a dark grave yawning
To hide my heart in its night."

Lilian knew that Cyril had written it at
the time of his estrangement from Marion,
who was listening to it now with great enjoyment,
unconscious that she was the heroine
of it ; but she only said that poets were
supposed to feel all the emotions of which the
human breast is capable, and Ingram was
about to make some rejoinder, when the
reiterated cry of " Blue to play ! " at last
aroused his attention, and he reluctantly
obeyed the summons.

But when the game was at last ended, and
they found themselves going home in the
moonlight across the few fields, and through
the dewy lane which lay between the curate's
dwelling and the rector's, Ingram contrived
that Lilian should linger behind with him, so

that there was no chance of interruption.
The words of Cyril's song echoed in his ears —

Such a deep and dear enchantment
Had bound me, hands and feet."

I cannot break the spell, Lilian," he said,
and I do not think it well to try any more.
My father sees it at last, and, though at one
time he wished me to look for rank and
fortune, he now thinks I cannot do better
than follow my heart."

*' Dear Ingram," replied Lilian, pausing at
a gate, over which they saw the village sleeping
in the moonlight, " I would have spared
you this. I thought I had been explicit
enough."

You were explicit enough ; I quite understood
that I was refused. But, dearest
Lilian, you cannot imagine how earnestly
and truly I love you," he continued, his face
flushing beneath its brown with deep and
serious feeling. " I know well how unworthy
I am of you. I have not been a good man ;
I was not like Cyril. I did as others do.
But, dearest Lilian, ever since the happy day,

VOL. II.

long ago now, when I found that I loved
you, ' when I began to love you,' as Cyril's
song says, it was indeed like the beginning
of June — everything was new. I woke up to
loathe all those things in my life that were
unworthy of you ; I set to work to sweep
them all away, and do better. I am not
good for much even now, I know well ; but
if there is any good in me at all, if I am nota
mere unscrupulous man of pleasure, if I
have any higher aspirations, if I try to do my
duty in my small way, it is all owing to you."
No, Ingram," returned Lilian, looking
into the honest, manly face, which was alight
with unwonted fervour ; '' you are wrong,
believe me. It is not due to me, but to
your own good and true nature, which only
needed the touch of love — which you must
give one day, not to me, but to some better,
more suitable woman — to show you the
real meaning of life. Believe me, Ingram,
men are not so dependent on women. Do
not give in to the conventional fiction of
making your better self depend on anything

SO uncertain as the will and liking of one
weaker than yourself. The moral nature of
men is stronger than that of women. We all
want something to lean upon. Do not make
pillars of us. Do you think any woman
could love one she believed her inferior ? "

I hope and trust so," said Ingram, with a
little smile. " Without that there would belittle
chance of happiness for me and many
another poor fellow. Dear Lilian, try to love
me. How can I live without you ? "

*' I thought we were to be friends," replied
Lilian, with a sigh and a regretful intonation
of her beautiful voice.

It was like the most exquisite music to
Ingram's ear ; it seemed to take his soul
captive and surround him with the purest
delight. Merely to hear her discoursing on
everyday themes to others, filled him with
a sense of delicious perfection which no cares
could distract.

We must be something more than friends,"
he said, " when the very sound of your voice
stirs every fibre within me."

We can never be more than friends ; it is
not in my power," lie replied quickly and
with agitation.

Ingram looked at her pale, pure face with
a startled glance, and saw that tears were
fast gathering in her eyes. Was there some
hidden trouble in her serene and lovely life ?
He could not think it. She had outlived the
pain and annoyance of her old playmate's
ruin ; she had received her brother back
from the very jaws of death ; all was fair
and pleasant around her. Her step was
light as only that of health and young
happiness can be; her laughter had the
most joyous ring of any he ever heard ;
she was always bright and full of pleasant
thoughts and airy suggestions. No ; it was
not possible that sorrow could have a home
in her heart. He looked silently and searchingly
at the figure by his side.

She was of more ethereal mould than she
had been in earlier days; and her features,
losing the soft, joyous curves of youth, had
fined into that perfect purity of outline which

in lier brother seemed austerity, but in lier
suggested spirit-like sweetness. The twins'
faces had been cast in the very same mould,
only the lips were fuller and firmer in the
sister, and she lacked the squareness visible
in her brother's jaw. For the first time,
Ingram asked himself the question people
never asked when under the spell of Lilian's
glances — Had she beauty ? And his answer
was in the affirmative.

Dear Lilian," he said, " it is in your
power to try to love me."

Lilian shook her head. " Do you remember
the day of Ben Lee's death ? " she asked.
Henry Everard and I were in Temple
Copse at midday when Long's waggon was
passing. It was then " — Lilian faltered, and
her lip trembled a little — "that we became
engaged."

Ingram was not wholly unprepared for
this, and said so, gazing quietly before him,
without returning the gaze he knew she had
fixed on him. " But that is long ago," he
added, " and you have your life to live.

Because you made one mistake, because one
man proved unworthy, will you spoil another's
happiness ? "

Unworthy ! " cried Lilian, in a voice that
startled him. " Henry Everard was never
unworthy ; that is no word to apply to him.
A more spotless man never breathed."

Oh, Lilian," returned Ingram, " you must
indeed have loved him if you believed him
innocent after the evidence which condemned
him."

I did indeed love him," said Lilian, with
quiet fervour.

He was silent for a time, half stunned by
the calm force of Lilian's words ; then at last
he spoke.

This old pain must be healed," he said
falteringly ; " the dead past must bury its
dead."

The past is alive and young," replied
Lilian.

Dearest Lilian, this must not be," said
Ingram, with resolution. " It is wrong and
morbid to go on brooding over an old sorrow,

and refusing comfort. Innocent or not, he
is dead to you ; your love can profit him
no more than if he were actually in the
grave "

You are mistaken," interrupted Lilian ;
we correspond. Besides, the imprisonment
is not for life."

Lilian, this is too dreadful. A convicted
felon with a twenty years' sentence ! Supposing
even the best, and he came out at
the end of fifteen or sixteen years ; you are
six and twenty now ; youth would begone
"

'' But not love, Ingram. Do you know
what love is ? It is stronger than time,
stronger than prisons, stronger than sorrow,
stronger than shame ; it is stronger, even,
than death. Many waters cannot quench it,
even waters of salt tears ; and no floods of
affliction can drown it. Love is immortal,
and knows nothing of age or death."

Ingram gazed awe-stricken upon the inspired
face, etherealized by the dreamy moonlight
and its own holy passion, and listened

to the beautiful voice as people listen to fine
strains of organ-music.

" Lilian," he said at last, " this cannot be.
You must not throw away your life like this.
Time will soften these feelings."

'' Never," she returned firmly. " Ingram,
you must waste no more time on me. You
are my very dear friend, and I have told you
the secret of my heart, and you see now how
impossible any such relations are to me. Let
your past bury its dead, and fix your heart's
good affections elsewhere. Come, let us go."

But he would not go on ; he stopped, and,
taking her hand, poured out a torrent of
remonstrance and entreaty.

Look, Ingram," she said at last, " look
northwards. If our sight could reach so far,
we should see a river, a dark river crowded
with shipping, and beyond the river stands
a black round mass of buildings. In that
dark mass there is a cell, in which, perhaps,
this very moon is shining now through the
barred window. In that cell is a man, a
gentleman, a man of unusual gifts and

culture. He is young, and everything lias
been taken from him — liberty, fortune, hope,
ambition, honour, friends ; but not love," she
added, her features transfigured as she spoke ;
love and innocence are still his. Ingram,
I am all that man has on this earth, and I
love him. Do you think any happiness Hfe
can offer would make me desert him ? "

He would never wish you to be bound
to him, if he really cared for you."

He does not wish it. But think of that
solitary prisoner, and remember he is the
only man I ever loved or could love. That
is my last word."

They went silently on their way with full
hearts, Lilian's tearful glances always turned
northwards, and those of her companion bent
downwards.

At that moment, within the gloomy building
beyond the dark and crowded river, a
strongly built man, with a haggard face and
dark eyes full of intellect, was lying on a
hard couch in his solitary cell, on the bare
white wall of which fell a square patch of

bright moonlight, crossed by the shadow of
iron bars. He was glad that the window
looked southwards, and turned to it even in
his sleep.

But he was awake now, and thinking how
the mellow glory was falling on the Malbourne
corn-fields and the beloved roof which
sheltered Lilian, and wondering if, perhaps,
the same lustre which gilded his dim and
dreary cell made a halo for the adored face.

CHAPTER III.

Some few years since, the fiat went forti for
the old familiar walls and heavy gates of
Portsmouth town to be levelled to the ground,
that the space which these now useless relics
of the past occupied might be covered with
buildings connected with the defences and
adapted to the requirements of the present.
Down went many a fine old elm beneath axe
and rope, and bit by bit the ramparts disappeared,
and the ditches were filled by the
busy hands of sunburnt men, armed with
barrow, pick-axe, and spade.

One summer morning, while these works
were in progress, the sun shone brightly in
the clear blue sky, and over the quiet sea and
still quieter harbour ; on the troop-ships and
mail-clad men-of-war, the busy steamers

and countless boats of every description
which fill these peaceful waters ; on the gay
garrison town, and on the beach, crowded
with bathers. Now and again a bugle rang
out, a gun was fired, snatches of military
music were heard; on the breezy common,
the strong horses and heavy guns of mounted
artillery were careering through thick dust-clouds,
whence the sparkle of arms and
accoutrements gleamed more effectively in
the brilliant sunlight. Portsmouth streets
were full of life, and the melodious chimes
of the parish church floated sweetly over
street, harbour, and bastion at every quarter.
Not very far from the Queen's Bastion
a party of men were at work upon the
partly levelled fortifications. They toiled on
in the hot sunshine in a listless, unwilling
manner, each man apparently trying to
accomplish as little as possible. They were an
ugly set, for the most part, with low brows,
heavy jaws, and brutal looks, and their close-cropped
hair, small black oilskin caps, dingy
yellow clothes, and clumsy boots by no

means softened their repulsive appearance.
Many of there looked at the gay carriages
and brightly clad women and children passing
and repassing, while some bent their scowling
brows stolidly over their spades. But the
gazers did not look up with a direct glance ;
they looked out of the corners of their eyes,
round their noses, with all kinds of crooked
and tortuous glances, like the traitors Dante
saw in his Inferno. Few of these men could
give a level glance or a candid answer ; still
fewer could think a clear and honest thought.
At intervals, watching them, and occasionally
giving a sharp, stern order, stood armed
men, stalwart and blue-clad, with faces like
rocks. Their guns were loaded with ball,
and their side-arms, gleaming in the sun,
looked terribly practical. As the convicts
pursued their forced, unwelcome toil, with
the sweat beading their weather-stained
brows, slow, melancholy, long-drawn music
pealed from the distance, and grew more
and more distinct, while the passengers
thickened, and a slowly moving mass of

scarlet, interspersed with flashes of steel and
gold, came into sight. The wail of the
trumpets rose into notes of shriller anguish,
while the heavy roll of the muffled drums
beneath was like the despairing voice of
some irrevocable doom, and smote heavily
upon the heart of one of the convicts, who
recognized in the wailing music, the reversed
arms, and slow rhythm of the soldier's even
march, the solemn pageant of a military
funeral.

As the procession drew nearer, the road
became more choked with passengers and
gazers, and people climbed on the unfenced
works, some to see the pageant better, others
to be out of the way till the crowd was past.
They gradually pressed closer and closer on
the convicts, whose dangerous proximity they
did not heed, until the warders, finding it
impossible to keep them away, formed the
convicts in line as far away as possible, and
bid them stand at attention while the funeral
glided by in its slow majesty.

The convict in whose breast the sorrowful

music had found such a responsive echo
was on the outside of the two-deep line
nearest the road, and was within a few paces
of two ladies who had drawn aside to avoid
the crowd. At first sight there was nothing
to distinguish No. 62 from his repulsive
comrades, but a closer gaze revealed an intellectual
face, gaunt and lined with suffering ;
dark hazel eyes, with a straight, thoughtful
glance ; and a genial mouth, which had lost
its old habit of smiling. He was of slighter
build than most of the convicts, but strong
and well-set. His name, which he had not
heard for a weary time, and which his nearest
and dearest friends had long ceased to pronounce,
was Henry Everard.

Many an old memory stirred within him, ashe
heard the muffled roll of the drums and
looked upon the scarlet mass of silent men
moving by ; for many of the soldiers wore
the number of his brother's regiment on their
uniforms, and he thought of the sunny-hearted
Leslie, whom he had so admired and loved,
and with whom, when quite a lad, he had

spent SO many pleasant holidays, all tuned
to the bright music of trumpet and drum, and
the quick rattle of arms and rhythmic tread
of armed men.

He remembered his pride the first time he
was admitted as a grown man to the mess-table,
and his brother's gallant presence and
light-hearted merriment, and the respect paid
him by the raw lads who had just joined. Of
all his brothers, Leslie was nearest him in age,
though some years his senior, and dearest to
him in affection ; but now — where was he ?
Lost to him with all that the great storm of his
life had carried away — lost, but not forgotten.
His eye sought him among the officers, one
or two of whom he recognized, but Leslie was
not there. He might have exchanged ; he
was probably promoted. Who knew what
might have happened in those years ?

'^ Yes," one of the ladies said, " my husband
knew him well. They were stationed at
Malta together. As you see, our regiment is
following as well as his own. A popular
officer, as nice men generally are."

Everard had observed the second regiment,
and at the same moment it had struck him
that, although the charger walking with
empty saddle behind the gun-carriage showed
the rank of the deceased officer to be at least
that of major, it was not impossible that his
brother might be lying beneath the Union
Jack. Then he caught sight of the occupants
of the mourning-coaches. In one he saw the
grey head of his father, and his heart misgave
him. But he reflected that he was
Admiral of the Port. Might he be there in
his official capacity ? But George was there
also, and his heart died within him.

His coming home was so sad," continued
one of the ladies. " If he could but have
lived till he reached land ! But he died
just as they were disembarking. His wound
was not so very serious ; he got fever
upon it."

And his friends were just too late to see
him alive," added the other lady. " Only
one child, I think ? And the poor wife was
here to receive him."

VOL. II. p

This, though in low tones such as ladies
naturally use in a crowd, the convict's eager,
strained ears caught, till at last he could
bear it no longer ; and, forgetful of the strict
prison discipline, he lifted his cap, and,
stepping quickly forward, addressed the lady
nearest him.

Pardon me, madam, the officer's name ? "
he asked.

Major Everard," replied the lady, startled
into a quick response, and drawing back with
some alarm.

No. 62 had neither eyes nor ears for the
warder's stern admonition. He drew back
into line, while the heart-shaking roll of the
drums and the wail of the trumpets grew
fainter and fainter, and the crowd moved
away. Then he resumed his barrow at the
word of command, and wheeled it along the
plank under the hot sun ; but heavy tears
fell upon the dry rubbish of the old fortifications,
and ever and anon he lifted his toil-stained
hand to dash away the quick-falling
drops, while his comrades' rude jeers and

foul pleasantries, stealthily muttered as they
were, reached his ears unheeded.

Emily," said the lady who had replied
to the convict's question, as they resumed
their road when the crowd melted, " that
man was a gentleman. Did you notice his
voice and the way in which he lifted his
cap ?

Poor fellow!" returned the other. " Why
was he so curious ? He will be punished for
speaking, you know. Perhaps he had friends
in the regiment."

Perhaps. By the way, I wonder how
soon one ought to call on Mrs. Everard ?
She never really joined the regiment, you
see ; but our husbands were intimate friends."

Leslie dead ! the gay and gallant Leslie,
the joyous, light-hearted companion of his
boyhood, his father's favourite son ! Like
the slow strokes of a knell which beat into
the agonized brain of a mourner, these mournful
words — Leslie dead — kept dinning into
Everard's ears all that long day. ^ He heard
them in every stroke of pick and hammer,

while he tolled on with his barrow ; in the
boom of guns at sea ; in the measured tread
of the convicts as they marched back to
dinner ; in the few brief orders given by the
warders, as the convicts stood with arms
uplifted, while a rapid, skilled hand was
passed over every inch of their bodies in
search of anything that might have been
received and secreted from the outer world ;
in the clang of the prison bell, which told
that the hour of respite was past, and time
come to march out to work again.

And he will never know that I was
innocent," thought Everard, as he ate his
solitary meal in his cell, " Sein Broad mit
Throne ass."

Next to the discovery of Cyril's treachery,
he had been most cut to the heart by receiving
no message or communication from Leslie after
his conviction. The admiral's stern though
kindly nature he knew, and he was not surprised
that, after the long array of damning
evidence against him, the plain, upright
sailor should treat him as one dead ; nor was

he surprised, though deeply pained, that
Keppel should do likewise.

His sisters and their husbands he knew too
well to think they would ever trouble themselves
about a disgraced kinsman ; but Leslie,
the generous, warm-hearted Leslie, whom he
so loved and admired, and Marion, the darling
of his childhood and youth — that they should
think him guilty, that cut into the very core
of his heart. And now Leslie — unless, indeed,
the dead see the things of life with clearer
vision than they who are still mingled in its
turmoil — could never know that he was innocent.
And he had taken a wife — left forlorn
now, poor soul ! — and there was an orphan
child of his own blood. And so the great
stream of life rolled on past the desolate rock
to which he was left chained, deaf to the
thunder of the on-rushing waves, clean forgotten,
like a dead man out of mind.

Like those sufferers whom Dante met in
hell, and who thought no more of their
agonies in'the bitter tidings he brought them
of their beloved on earth, No. 62 cared little

for the punishment and loss of good marks
which his breach of discipline cost lira. It
was many days before he was again employed
on the fortifications, for that work was
eagerly coveted and only given to the best-behaved
men, both because it afforded the
unfortunate captives a welcome glimpse of
the outside world, and also because it offered
greater facilities of escape than any other
work, greater even than those which the
dockyard labourers enjoyed.

Everard's next week, therefore, was spent
within the dreary confines of the prison,
partly at accounts and partly at hospital
duty, in which he was much more useful than
other men on account of his previous training,
but duties which he particularly abhorred
for many reasons ; amongst others, on account
of the confinement and the leisure they gave
the mind for brooding.

It is difficult to realize the agony of despair
which devoured Everard's heart and confused
his intellect in the first months of his imprisonment.
The horror of CyriFs treachery

and evil-doing, and the shame of seeing all
human virtue and honour in the dust, blunted
his perceptions of minor evils at first, and
the black despair of feeling that there was
no God, or only some cruel deity who laughed
at the misery of innocent men and promoted
evil-doers, made him like a stone.

The thought that his life's purpose was
wrecked ; that he could now never pursue
those grand scientific theories which he was
so near bringing to perfection ; that the productions
of centuries of human intellect were
closed to him for ever ; that the mental powers
he so delighted in exercising must rust, and
perhaps be crushed beneath a daily load of
brute-like drudgery and degrading hardship ;
that his finer susceptibilities would be blunted
or effaced by the daily contact with all that
was coarsest and foulest in human nature ;
that he would be utterly cut off from all that
was calculated to nourish and refresh the
higher nature, did not come to him till much
later.

Like some captured wild beast, he submitted

with dogged unwillingness to the
restraints of superior force ; he did his prison
tasks with the mute protest of the blinded
Samson among his tormentors, not caring
whether he pulled down the pillars of his
prison-house or not in his savage strength.
It was a relief to him to exhaust himself in
hard bodily toil, and he performed feats of
strength in his passion which surprised men
born and trained to physical labour.

The chaplain was a man for whom the
human soul had no secret sanctuary in which
angels, much less foolish and sinful men, might
fear to tread, and for whom the highest mysteries
of the divine nature were but scraps
of glib commonplace ; a man who expected
men steeped in years of vice and foulness to
be converted at once by the rude and sudden
enunciation of his well-worn formula ; a
sincere and well-meaning man withal, who
looked upon earth as an antechamber to an
unspeakable hell, from which a very small
and numbered few might occasionally be
snatched by a sort of chance-medley jugglery.

of which he and half a dozen more alone knew
the watchword or enchanted password ; the
chaplain pronounced him an utter reprobate.

But have you no care for your poor
soul ? " he asked one day, after wearisome
exhortations and endless questioning, to
which the prisoner had given no reply.
None whatever," he replied at last.

He was no favourite with the warders,
whom he despised in his unjust resentment
of their authority, or with his fellow-prisoners,
who hated him, firstly, because he
was a gentleman ; and, secondly, because all his
looks and words silently rebuked capriciousness
of their own. Excessive labour and hopeless
brooding brought him to the hospital at last.

The prison doctor knew his history, and
felt for him as for a brother in trouble, aud,
accustomed as he was to suspect and discover
malingering, saw at once that No. 62's strange
malady was no feigned one, but arose from
the mind rather than the body. One day,
after many rough but kindly efforts to rouse
him, he said at last —

If you go on like this, you will lose your
reason before long."

Reason ! " retorted the patient, with bitter
scorn. '' And what use is reason to me ? "

It is of little use to you, perhaps," rejoined
the officer, moving away, " but the
loss of it will make you a dangerous nuisance
to others."

This drastic observation had a wholesome
effect upon the prisoner's stricken mind. The
notion of sinking into a dangerous nuisance
stung him into a sense of the unmanliness of
giving himself up to his miseries ; it awoke
in him the bracing thought that some faint
remnants of duty remained even to one so
cut off from his kind as himself.

He thought that he probably would become
insane, his medical knowledge told him how
much he had to fear on that score from his
terrible life ; but he was resolved that at least
he would do his best to preserve his wits.
He therefore took counsel with the surgeon,
and during his hospital leisure formed a
scheme of intellectual and moral discipline.

He forced himself to an interest in the
repulsive human creatures and the dreary
occupations of the prison. He made a mental
time-table, in which certain days or hours
were to be given to the recollection of particular
fields of knowledge, certain days to the
mental speaking of Latin, Greek, etc. Such
poetry as he knew by heart he arranged for
periodic mental repetition. He did the same
with the plots of aeschylus and others which
he loved, and could not obtain from the prison
library. He told himself the story of Troy
and the wanderings of Ulysses on many a
lonely night. He traced the minutest recesses
of his fellow-prisoners' anatomy beneath their
outward semblance, mentally depriving them
of flesh, muscle, and sinew, as easily as
Carlyle's imagination dispossessed his fellows
of their garments ; and lost no opportunity
of observing whatever crossed his limited
field of vision.

It was weary work, but it saved him. He
fed his starving heart with memories of
hours passed with Lilian and others dear to

him — memories as full of pain as pleasure,
particularly those which recalled the few last
vivid days at Malbourne before his arrest. Yet
his heart was still bitter with black despair.

Chapel-going was a dreary thing, and little
calculated to edify one less full of despairing
doubt than Everard. It was difficult to
preserve a devotional spirit amid that crowd
of foul-mouthed malefactors, who mingled
ribaldry and blasphemy with the responses
they uttered and the hymns they sang for
the sake of using their voices.

One day, Everard was aroused from a mental
review of the symptoms in a complicated
and interesting case he once conquered,
during the sleepy drone of the Litany, by a
rush through the air near him, followed by a
crash. He looked up in time to see the bent
head of the governor struck by the shoe of
the prisoner next him, and the governor
himself looked up in time to receive the
second shoe full in his face. This incident,
typical of many similar ones, seriously interfered
with the morning's devotion.

One drowsy, warm autumn morning, about
six months after his conviction, Everard was
more than usually depressed, and had taken
refuge in sorrowful dreams of happier days.
The prisoners were quieter than usual, some
dozing, some refreshed by the Te Deem they
had been loudly singing, some really touched
by the awful pathos of the gospel which was
being read, when suddenly a phrase seemed
to detach itself from the rest of the narrative,
and, as if uttered by a trumpet voice, to trace
itself deeply upon Everard's mind, waking
him from his melancholy dream, and startling
him into a newer life. The phrase consisted
of those heart-shaking words, " My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken me ? "

Every detail of the agony and crucifixion
flashed clear upon his mind, strangely
mingled with the feeling of calm strength
with which the picture of Gethsemane in the
study at Malbourne had inspired him in the
hour of his extremity. Tears rushed to his
eyes, and he trembled. All those weary
months his heart had been echoing that

most bitter cry, without remembering that
Christ had been forced to utter it in the hour
in which He accomplished man's redemption.

The darkness which had come upon him
in the prisoner's dock at the discovery of
his friend's baseness rolled away, and he
recognized his own wrong-doing. What was
Cyril, after all, that his faith in divine and
human goodness should depend on him ?
Had he not idolized the poor, weak, erring
lad, whom his strength should rather have
pitied ? And what was he that he should
escape that darkness which brooded over the
very cross ? How many men down the long
roll of the ages had suffered bonds and
treachery, being innocent ? Cyril's cynical
'' She is not the first," flashed upon him,
and he wondered that he should have cried
out so loud when he found himself enrolled
in the vast army of the world's sufferers.
What claim had he for exemption from earth's
anguish ?

'^ There is a God, and there is good, and
the bitterest lot has comfort," he said within

himself, reversing his despairing utterance in
the dock when the conviction of Cyril's
treachery flashed upon him, as he marched
with his fellow-sufferers into the yard, where
an hour of sunlight and freedom within four
walls was permitted them on Sundays.

The mid-day sky was transparently blue
and suffused with light, so that it was a joy
to look upon ; the sunny autumn air was
sweet to breathe ; and the sheets of sunshine
fell pleasantly upon him, in spite of the garb
of shame and bondage they lighted, and the
prison walls whose shadows limited them,
and for the first moment since his imprisonment
Everard felt that enjoyment was possible,
even to one so stricken as himself,
since Heaven smiled still upon him, captive
though he was.

Just then an oblong packet was put in his
hand. He looked at it with mute amazement
for a moment, for he had forgotten how it
feels to receive a letter ; and then he uttered
a faint cry, for the handwriting was Lilian's.
His first instinct was to conceal it from the

vulgar crew around him, and he scarcely
noticed that the sacred cover, closed by the
beloved hand, had been violated by some
stranger's touch, according to the stern prison
rule.

He walked up and down the yard as one
whose steps are on air, his eyes full of soft
fire, happy merely to hold the treasure in
his hand. He did not open it till he was
alone in his cell, that narrow witness of so
much agony, which now became a palace of
delight.

It was a letter such as only the tenderness
of a good and loving woman for one in deep
affliction could inspire. It had touched even
the official reader, accustomed to moving
letters full of ill-spelled pathos from brokenhearted
and often injured women to the villains
they loved, and it went into the very marrow
of Everard's being, and steeped him in an
atmosphere of pure thought and high-souled
feeling, to which he had long been a stranger,
and which refreshed his parched spirit like
waters in a desert of burning sand.

Lilian briefly mentioned Cyril's terrible
illness and her own, and described his state,
which was still one of doubtful sanity,
requiring the most watchful care ; there were
few tidings besides. Then she spoke of
Henry's affliction, and bid him keep up his
heart, and pray constantly, as she did, that
his innocence might be made clear. That
the truth must come out sooner or later, she
was convinced, referring him to the great
promises made to the just man in the Scriptures.
In the mean time, who could tell but
that some wise and beneficent end was to be
fulfilled by his sojourn in the prison. The
purposes of the Almighty were deep and
unsearchable, far hidden from the thoughts
of men ; but whatever treachery and wickedness
had brought Everard to that pass of
shame and misery, she bid him remember
that without the divine permission he could
not be there.

What if some nobler and higher use than
he could ever have wrought outside in the
free world were to be his in that dreary

VOL. II. Q

place ? Who could say what the influence
of one solitary man of stainless life might be
in that crowd of degraded yet still human
creatures, or what sorrow might be there to
comfort? Let him only remember that the
Almighty had placed him in that dreary
dungeon as surely as He had placed the
sovereign on the throne, the priest at the
altar, and the bright blossom in the sunshine,
and take comfort.

These opportune words soothed and
strengthened Everard's soul, the more so as
Lilian did not underrate the magnitude of the
sacrifice he had been called upon to make,
but spoke feelingly of the cruel denials and
degradations of his lot, and of the frustration
of their common hopes, and of the separation,
which she trusted might soon be at an end.

She bid him remember also that, as a true
lover, he must keep up his courage for her
sake, and hope in the future, which they
might still enjoy together. Nor was this
noble letter wanting in those assurances of
love which are so cordial to parted lovers.

Its effect upon the lonely prisoner is difficult
to imagine, much less describe.

But it was greatly due to the hope and
faith which it inspired, that from that day
the prison became to Everard no longer a
place of darkness and despair, but a part of
Grod's own world, over which divine wisdom
and mercy still smiled, and in which a man's
soul might still find its necessary celestial
food.

CHAPTER ly.

Everard found, to his unspeakable consolation,
that he might answer Lilian's letter,
though his answer would have to pass before
the cold eyes of the officials ; and, further, that
once in every few months Lilian intended to
write to him.

Thus from time to time his soul was braced
and refreshed by the dear delight of communicating
with the being he loved most in
the world. How he counted the weeks and
days till the day of days arrived ; how he
treasured phrases and sentences of those
precious letters (which he was, of course, not
allowed to preserve) in his memory ; and how
much thought he gave beforehand to the
composition of replies !

Many dark and terrible hours of bitter

inward wrestling lie still had after that blessed
autumn Sunday, but the general tenour of
his inward life was brave and hopeful. He
found much to interest him in his fellow-prisoners,
and here and there flowers of
tenderness and charity sprung up along the
barren prison path, and he even formed
friendships—yes, warm and lasting friendships
— with some of the felons amongst
whom his lot was cast, and enjoyed the pure
happiness of knowing that he had, as Lilian
predicted, rescued more than one fallen
creature from despair, and set his face
heavenwards.

Among his first friends was a young fellow
whose character reminded him strongly of
Cyril's, lovable, pious, well-disposed, refined,
but weak and selfish. He was of gentle
birth, and had held a position of trust under
a large banking firm. He married young
on a small income ; marriage brought cares,
and did not diminish the love of pleasure.
He got into debt, gambled to extricate himself,
and, of course, plunged further in. Ruin

stared him in the face, and he embezzled the
sums trusted him, meaning, as such criminals
usually do, to pay all back in time. He left
a young wife and child destitute in the hard
world while undergoing his seven years'
imprisonment. He was heart-broken, and
Everard saw him glide swiftly into the
clutches of consumption and fade before him.
Many a stroke of work he did for the poor
weakling, and many a thought of hope and
manly cheerfulness he gave him. And by
the darkness in the prison the day the poor
fellow was taken to the infirmary — nevermore,
as Everard well knew, to come out
again — he knew how much brightness his
friendship had made in that dreary spot.
Everard, as a special grace, besought them
to give him hospital duty, that he might
himself tend his dying friend, and thus he
was able to soothe his latest moments ; receive
his piteous message for his wife, whom
Everard had little hope of ever meeting ; and
close his eyes v/hen he had no more need of
the sun.

As the outer world, so was the narrow
prison sphere, Everard found after a while :
men trusted and betrayed, loved and hated,
schemed and envied, derided misfortune or
helped it, as in the world, only there was a
larger percentage of rascals inside the prison
than outside. His friends were chiefly
gentlemen, though he sought the friendship
of the lowest ; a man had but to be miserable
to found a claim upon his heart.

But never till he dwelt on equal terms
with the scum of all classes did he discover
how hard and inflexible are the iron bars
which divide class from class. The gentlemen,
from the fraudulent director and forging
ex-Guardsman down to the smallest clerk or
showman who could handle a pen, hailed him
as a brother, while those who belonged to
what one may call the washing classes were as
his twin brothers; but the hand-labourers, the
non-readers and non-washers, and the criminal
class proper, looked upon him as their
natural enemy, and, beyond mere brutal
elementary necessities, discovered little on

which they could exchange sympathy and
build friendship.

Everard sometimes longed for half a dozen
villainous noblemen, a misdoing minister or
two, and one or two iniquitous emperors, to
make the social world complete. In that
case, in spite of the prison equality, there
would be no fear, he well knew, that the little
society would resolve itself into a republic ;
the rascal emperor would have his rascal
court, and the minor rascals would fall
naturally into their places.

In the process of the long years a sort of
sleep had settled upon Everard's nature. He
grew so inured to the prison routine, with
its numbing drudgery, that he had ceased to
think of freedom or feel active pain in his
never-ceasing torment. But Leslie's funeral
was like the stab of a sharp knife in a
numbed limb ; it woke him to full consciousness
of his misery and degradation. He
had been at Portsmouth only for some six
months, having been suddenly transported
thither, he knew not why, and he had but

recently discovered that his father was port-admiral.


Daily, as he worked on the dockyard extension,
he had passed the admiral's great
house, with the green in front, and the
semaphore, waving long arms to all the subject
ships in harbour, upon its roof, and had
looked at it with a listless, incurious eye,
little dreaming who was the chief figure in
the little court which gathers round the port-admiral
as a tiny social king, till one sunny
noon, when going home to dinner with his
gang, he saw the admiral descending the
steps to' welcome some guests, and felt the
sting of his humiliation as he had never done
before, not even when one day, in the midst
of his muddy work at the extension, he had
seen Keppel in full uniform rowed ashore
from his ship with all the pomp and circumstance
of a naval captain on blue waters.
Some weeks before the funeral, when he was
going to the dockyard works at early morning,
the port-admiral's house was still lighted
up, its windows shone sickly in the grey

daylight, a few carriages were still drawn
up in a lessening line before the principal
door, and the last strains of a military band
were dying away.

The admiral, assisted by his daughter-in-law,
the Hon. Mrs. Keppel Everard, had
given a great ball that night, and in one of
the carriages, into which the admiral was
leaning, talking. No. 62 saw a black-coated
man, whose features, dim in the shadow,
suggested Cyril's, and by his side, pale from
the long night's waking, and talking to the
old man, was surely, surely, his own sister
Marion.

Did they know he was there ? or had Lilian
purposely withheld the information to spare
them pain ? He could not tell. But these
circumstances, together with the funeral, conspired
to make his life intolerable, and when
once more he found himself labouring on the
old fortifications, he stepped along in the
gang with a subdued leap in his gait, like a
caged beast.

Long since he had renounced the hope of

being freed by Cyril's conscience. He bad
never made any attempt to fasten the guilt
on the real criminal ; be shrank from the
complex misery it would bring upon all dear
to bim ; and, moreover, bis evidence, tbougb
absolutely convincing to himself, was purely
conjectural. He could bring not one proof,
no single witness, save the dumb cat, and that
evidence, be well knew, would suffice only to
convince the one person be most wished to be
ignorant of the truth, Lilian herself.

Tbe day on wbicb be returned to the
fortifications was bot and fiercely bright.
Tbe town was full of life. Gay carriages were
bearing ladies in light summer bravery to
garden-parties, afternoon dances on board
ships, and other revels ; bands were playing
on piers ; vessels of every kind, some gay with
flags, dotted the Solent and the calm blue
barbour ; colours bad been trooped on the
common, troops bad marched past the convicts;
the sweet crimes of St. Thomas's bad rung a
wedding-peal ; the great guns bad thundered
out royal salutes to the royal yacht as before

the sovereign over to the green Wight ; —
there was such a rush and stir of life as quite
bewildered Everard, and made the sharpest
contrast to his grey and dreary prison life.
To see those freest of free creatures, the street
boys, sauntering or springing at will along
the hot streets, or, casting off their dirty rags,
flinging themselves into the fresh salt sea
and revelling there like young Tritons, or
balanced on rails, criticizing the passing
troops, was maddening.

The day grew hotter, but pick and barrow
had to be plied without respite, though the
sweat poured from hot brows, and one man
dropped. Everard saw that it was sunstroke,
and not malingering, as the warder was
inclined to think, and by his earnest representations
got the poor creature proper
treatment. The brassy sky grew lurid
purple, and heavy growls of thunder came
rumbling from the distance ; some large
drops of rain fell scantily; and then suddenly
the sky opened from horizon to horizon
and let down a sheet of vivid flame. Darkness

followed, and a roar, as of all the
artillery at Portsmouth firing and all its
magazines exploding at once.

Now or never," thought Everard, and,
dropping his barrow at the end of his plank,
he leapt straight ahead down into a waste
patch, over which he sprang to the road.
He ran for life and liberty with a speed he
did not know himself capable of, straight on,
blindly aiming at the shore, tearing off his
cap and jacket and flinging them widely indifferent
directions, as he went through the
dark curtain of straight, rushing rain.

The warders, bewildered by the awful roar
of the thunder, blinded by the fierce, quick
dazzle of the lightning and the blackness of
the all-concealing rain, did not at first miss
him. It was only when he leapt the palisade
bounding the road, and showed through the
rain-curtain a bare-headed, fugitive figure,
that the grim guardian caught sight of him.
Had he possessed the nerve to walk quietly
out through the gate, he might have got off
unobserved under cover of the storm.

Quick as thought, the warder, on seeing
him, lifted his piece to his shoulder and fired.
He was a good marksman, and his face
lighted up with satisfaction as he hit his
flying quarry, in spite of the bad light and
confusing storm.

Everard felt a sharp, hot sting in the
thigh, but ran on, his course marked with
blood, which the friendly storm quickly
washed away. The darkness became intense,
the lightning more blinding, the downrush
of rain heavier, and the crashing of the
thunder more deafening. Nevertheless, the
alarm was given, and the pursuers were soon
in full chase.

Down the now-deserted high-road dashed
the fugitive, every faculty he possessed concentrated
on flight. With the blind instinct
of the hunted, he rushed at the first turning,
through a gate, up some steps, along to
the bastion which rose behind the powder
magazines. He darted along some pleasant
green walk under the massy elms, till he
reached the first sentry-box, in which stood

the sentry, a stalwart Highlander, sheltering
from the storm.

Instead of firing on him, as the desperate
fugitive expected, the man stepped quickly
aside, and the panting runner, divining his
friendly purpose, ran into the box.

The soldier swiftly resumed his station,
and stood looking out with an immovable
face as before, while the hunted convict, in
the darkness in the narrow space at his side,
stood face inwards, close pressed to the
wooden wall, soaked to the skin, and panting
in hard gasps that were almost groans, yet
sufficiently master of himself to press a wad
of folded trouser on the bleeding wound,
which proved to be only a flesh graze, but
which might ruin the friendly Scot by its
damning stains on the floor of the box.

"Quiet's the word," said the hospitable
sentry, and nothing more.

Some minutes passed. Everard's breathing
became less laboured, and his reflections more
agonized ; the thunder-peals grew less tremendous,
while the rain became heavier.

The pursuers had lost sight of their prey in
the road before he reached the gate, and had
been thrown off the scent, while still sending
searchers in all directions. Two of these
turned up through the gate, and one explored
all the nooks and crannies of the crescent-shaped
space walled by the bastion which
sheltered the powder-magazines, while the
other examined the path itself, and interrogated
the sentry.

Past the Garrison Chapel, towards High
Street ; out of my range," he said coolly ; and
the pursuer, calling his comrade, flew with
him along the bastion, not stopping to inquire
of the other sentries. '' Gone away," observed
the Highlander to his quivering guest,
who had feared lest his light-coloured dress
might betray him behind the sentry, whose
plaid and kilt and feather bonnet filled up
all of the opening not darkened by his tall
figure. " Off the scent. What next, mate ? "

Heaven knows ! I only hope I may not
ruin you. If I get off I will not forget you.
My friends are well off, and I am "

THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND. 241

Henry Everard. Seen you often with
your gang — recognized at once."

Good heavens ! " cried Everard, not
seeing his host's handsome face, but feeling a
vague stir of memory at his voice ; " who are
you?"

Private Walker, 179th Highlanders.
Was Balfour of Christchurch. "

Balfour ? What ! come to this ? What
did we not expect of you ? "

Wear a better coat than yours. Manby
rough on you — hard lines. Do anything for

you."

You always were a good-hearted fellow.
And I was innocent, Balfour ; I had not the
faintest grudge against the poor fellow. But
how did you come to this? You took
honours."

Governor poor — large family — small
allowance at Cambridge e — debts — Jews. Called y(
to Bar — small allowance again — no briefs —
more debts — more Jews. Governor suggests
Australia — all up here — didn't see boiling
tallow in Australia — if a day-labourer, why

VOL. II. R

not in England ? Always liked the service
enlisted — Hussar regiment — jolly life — saw
service — full sergeant — time expired. Sent
into Reserve — not allowed to re-enlist — name
of Smith. Tried civil life — down on my luck
again — deserted from reserve — re-enlisted in
Highlanders — name of Walker — enlistment
fraudulent — liable to imprisonment — foreign
service soon — all right. Now for you ? "

Everard had to confess that he did not in
the least know what to do next, unless he
could hide till the darkness rendered his dress
unobservable. The moment he was seen he
would be recognized anywhere as a convict.
Various schemes were revolved between them
as rapidly as possible, for it was essential that
Everard should leave the sentry-box for a
better hiding-place before the rapid diminishing
of the storm should once more open the
bastion to observers.

The massive foliage of the elms hard by
might have hidden a regiment, and Balfour
had observed that the branches attracted no
suspicion on the part of the pursuers, and as

the forking of the boughs did not begin till
many feet off the ground, and the broad,
smooth trunk offered not the smallest foothold,
it was impossible for a man to climb into
them unassisted.

But the sentry remembered that a stout
rope had been flung aside there by some
gunners busy cleaning the cannon on the
bastion that day. If Everard could find this,
and fling it over a bough, he might hoist
himself up. If he could not find it, the soldier
offered to come and lend him his shoulder — an
action that might attract observation even in
the darkness of the storm, since that part of
the bastion was commanded by many windows,
and that would, if discovered, bring certain
ruin upon both men.

Everard darted swiftly from the box, and
groped about in the wet grass till he found
the rope. This, in the still blinding rain,
he threw over the lowest stout branch,
keeping one end, and fearful lest the other
would not descend within reach. After a
couple of casts, however, he succeeded in

bringing the second end, in which he had
fastened a stone, within easy reach, then
grasping both, and planting his feet against
the broad bole, slippery with wet, managed
to struggle up with moderate speed. He was
half-way up, and, pausing a moment to steady
himself and look round, saw to his infinite
horror that he was exactly opposite to, and in
full view and firing range of, the sentry on
the opposite end of the bastion, which was
roughly crescent-shaped.

Outlined as he was, and almost stationary
against the tree-trunk, he presented the
easiest target for a moderate range shot.
The man was in no hurry for his easy prey,
he lifted his musket slowly, while Everard
paused, transfixed with horror. The sentry
seemed as if waiting for him to rise into a
still better position for a shot. Everard
slipped down, expecting to hear a ball sing
over his head, if not into his body ; but
there was no report, and he stood irresolute
a moment, seeking where to fly.

A signal of warning and haste from Balfour

made him once more grasp his rope in
desperation, and climb through the peril of
the sentry's aim. A flash of lightning showed
him his foe standing as before, with his
musket planted firmly in front of him; he
was supporting himself placidly with both
hands clasped upon it, and his head bent
slightly down, almost as if he had fallen
asleep at his post.

But Everard knew that the most careless
sentries do not fall asleep in the process
of aiming at fugitive prisoners, and pressed
on till he reached the first fork, where he
rested, wondering why no shot had been
fired. The fact was, the rain was beating
straight into the man's face, and he had much
ado to see a yard before him, and had raised
his musket merely to see if the breech was
properly shielded from the wet. Everard,
however, hoisting up his rope, climbed higher
into his green fortress, expecting nothing less
than to have it soon riddled in all directions
by a fusillade from below. To his surprise he
heard Balfour's signal of safety, and gladly

responded to it ; for they had framed a little
code of signals before parting.

It was comparative luxury to the weary,
wounded man to sit astride a branch, with his
back against the trunk, and the foot of the
wounded limb supported upon a lower bough,
and he gave a sigh of deep relief, and reflected
that he was at last, after all those dreary
years of bondage, free. Balfour could do
nothing till he was off guard, which would
happen in another half-hour. Nothing could be
done during the next sentry's guard, because
it would be impossible to get at him and see
how far he could be trusted ; but if any
subsequent sentry proved manageable, and if
Balfour could get a pass for the night, he
might bring him some sort of clothing, and
then, under favourable circumstances, he
might get off. And then ?

The storm abated, the last low muttering
of thunder died away in the distance, the rain
ceased, and the evening sun shone out with
golden clearness. Some of the long slanting
beams pierced the green roof of his airy prison.

and fell hopefully upon the fugitive's face. He
heard the sentry's measured tread below, and
then the change of guard ; the hum of the town,
and the noises from the vessels at anchor, came,
mingled with distant bugle-calls, to his lonely
tower. The light faded, the sun went down
in glory, the gun on the bastion fired the
sunset, the parish church chimed half-past
eight, the sounds from sea and shore came
more distinct on the quieting night air, and
he heard the band of a Highland regiment
begin its skirl of pipes on the Clarence Pier.
It was probably Balfour's regiment.

Poor Balfour ! He fell to thinking of his
unfortunate lot, much as he had to occupy his
thoughts with regard to his own immediate
destiny. Only that week, Balfour's father,
General Sir Ronald Balfour, K.C.B., as general
commanding at Portsmouth, had reviewed
the troops, Balfour himself being more than
once face to face with his father. This he
told Everard, adding that on a recent foreign
royal visit to Portsmouth, the 179th had
formed a guard of honour to the royal

guests, and that Admiral Everard had walked
down the lane of which he made a part, in
the wake of the royal party, chancing to
come to a full stop just on his level.

Balfour, the star of the Debating Society,
the man whom they had hoped to see on the
Woolsack ; what a fall was here ! " Unlucky
beggar ! " was the philosophic Highlander's
sole comment on his ill-starred destiny. A
good fellow, and a man without a vice.

The air was chill after sunset. Everard,
motionless on his airy perch, bareheaded, and
in his shirt-sleeves, was wet to the skin, and
shivered with a double chill after the heat of
his hard labour in the sultry afternoon. His
wound ached till he began to fear it might
lame him, and his hunger waxed keener as
the night deepened and the cold increased.
The stars came out and looked at him with
their friendly, quieting gaze. He could seethe
sparkle of lights in the water and in the
town ; he could make out the lights of
the admiral's signal-station on his housetop
above the dockyard.

Which man-of-war was Keppel's ? he wondered,
knowing nothing even of the outside
world that was so near him. The chimes of
the parish church told him the hours, and he
knew when the guard would be relieved.

It was a weary night ; its minutes lagged
by leaden-paced. He thought their long
procession would never end ; and yet there
was a strange, delicious enchantment in the
feeling that he had at last broken the bars
of that iron prison, with its terrible bondage
of unbending routine and drudgery. The
thick forage of the elm still held the wet,
which every passing breath of the night
wind shook on to the grass below in a miniature
shower. The moon rose and wandered
in pale majesty across the sweet blue sky —
such a free, broad night sky as had not blessed
his eyes for years and years ; its beams hung
his green fortress roof with pearls and
trembling diamonds, falling ever and anon
to the earth. Sentinel after sentinel came
on guard below, but there was no friendly
signal from beneath. He had descended to

250 THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND.

the lowest bough to catch the slightest sound.
The watch was passing; the early dawn
would shine on the next watch, and, if help
did not come before the sunrise, he would
have to wait till the following night, wet,
starved, suffering as he was. But no ; there
is the welcome signal at last.

Quickly he gave the answering signal ;
and, bending down in the darkness, heard the
following sentence above the sound of the
sentinel's backward and forward steps : —
Sentry blind and deaf — sneak off to right.
Catch."

Something flew up to him in the dark, and,
after two misses, he caught it ; and then,
rising to where a rift in the foliage let in a
shaft of rays from the waning moon, unfastened
his bundle, which was roughly tied
with string.

A battered hat, very large, so that it would
hide the close-cropped head ; a boatman's
thick blue jersey ; and a pair of wide trousers,
worn and stained, with a belt to fasten them ;
also some second-hand boots — such was the

simple but sufficient wardrobe which Balfour
had purchased with his slender means, and
brought him at deadly risk.

Everard was able to discard every rag of
the tell-tale prison garb, stamped all over as
it was with the broad arrow, and, securing the
dangerous garments to a branch of the tree,
invested himself in the contents of the bundle
an occupation that took so long, owing to
the inconvenience of his lofty dressing-room,
that the eastern sky was brightening and the
friendly sentinel's watch almost expired by
the time he was ready to descend from his
perch, which he did noiselessly and apparently
unobserved by the sentry.

Then, slowly and painfully — for his limbs
were cramped and chilled, and his wound
ached — he glided behind the dark boles till
he reached the steps, and, descending them,
found to his dismay that the gate was locked.

CHAPTER y.

There is almost always some small but vitally
important hitch in the best-laid human plans,
and the hitch in Balfour's arrangement was
that he forgot the nightly locking of the gate
leading on to the bastion. He had approached
the tree from the other side, passing the
sentries, being challenged by them, and
giving the word in reply.

Everard knew the bastion, and had had
many a pleasant stroll there in old days, when
stopping with his father when in port, and he
knew well that his only course was now to
climb the gate, which he could not do without
noise, and which was in no case an easy feat,
the plain boards of which the gate was made
being high, and the top thickly studded with
those dreadful crooked nails, which look like

alphabets gone wrong, and do dreadful
damage both to hands and clothing.

Fortunately, the moon had set, the sun was
not yet risen, and the darkness favoured him —
a darkness which every moment threatened
to dissipate. He struggled up with as little
sound as possible, with set teeth and a beating
heart, lacerating his hands cruelly. Then,
having gained the top — not without some
rents in his scanty clothing — he grasped the
nail-studded ridge and sprang down. Alas !
not to the ground, for one of the crooked
nails caught in the back part of the wide
trousers, and, with a rending of cloth and a
knocking of his feet against the boards, he
found himself arrested midway, and suspended
by the waist against the gate, like a mole on
a keeper's paling.

Had he been caught in front, he might
have raised himself and somehow torn himself
free ; but being hooked thus in the rear, he
was almost helpless, and his slightest effort
to free himself brought the heels of his boots
knocking loudly against the gate as if to

obtain admittance, which was the last thing
he wanted. Meantime, the minutes flew on,
the darkness was breaking fast ; before long
the sun would rise, and disclose him hung
thus helplessly on his nail to the earliest
passer-by, who would probably be a policeman.


A beautiful faint flush of rose-red suddenly
shot up over the eastern sky, and the brown
shadows lessened around him. He heard
footsteps echoing through the dewy stillness,
and struggled with blind desperation. The
rose-red turned deep glowing orange, objects
became more and more distinct before him,
the street lamps sickened, a soft orange ray
shot straight from the sea across the common,
through the leaves of the tree shadowing the
gate, on to the fugitive's cheek. At the
same instant he heard the boom of the sunrise
gun ; it was day.

The footsteps approached nearer and nearer ;
on the bastion he heard the change of watch.
He felt that all was lost, and yet, in his mental
tension, his chief consciousness was of the

awful beauty of the dawn, the dewy quiet and
freshness brooding over the great town, and —
strange contrast ! — the grotesque absurdity of
his situation. He heard the lively twitter of
the birds waking in the trees, and admired
the soft radiance of the ruddy beams on the
sleeping town; and then something gave
way, and he found himself full length on the
pavement.

The echoing footsteps had as yet brought
no figure round the corner, and Everard
welcomed the hard salute of the paving-stones
as the first greeting of freedom, and, quickly
picking himself up, he fell into the slow,
slouching walk he had observed in tramps,
and moved on, adjusting his disordered garments
as best he might. The footsteps
proved indeed to be those of a policeman,
whose eyes were dazzled with the level sunbeams
which he faced, and who gave him a
dissatisfied but not suspicious glance and
passed on.

Everard drew a deep breath and limped
on, trying to disguise the lameness of the

wounded limb, which he feared might betray
him, and thrust his torn hands into the pockets
of the trousers which had so nearly ruined
him. His surprise and joy were great on
touching with his left hand a substance which
proved to be bread and cheese, which he
instantly devoured, and with his right a few
pence, and, what moved him to tears of
gratitude for Balfour's thoughtful kindness,
a short briarwood pipe, well-seasoned, and
doubtless the good fellow's own, a screw of
cheap tobacco, and some matches. He had
not touched tobacco for nine years.

A drinking-fountain supplied him with the
draught of water which his fevered throat
and parched lips craved ; it also enabled him
to wash off some of the blood and dirt from
his torn hands. And then, dragging his stiff
and wounded limb slowly along, and eating
his stale bread and cheese in the sweet sunshine,
he made his morning orisons in the
dewy quiet of the yet un wakened town, and
felt a glow of intense gratitude, which increased
as the food and water strengthened

him, and exercise warmed his chill and
stiffened frame.

He was glad to see the houses open oneby
one, and the streets begin to fill ; he
thought he should attract less attention
among numbers. He passed groups of free
labourers hurrying to the dockyard to work,
and it gave him an eerie shudder to think
that some of them, whose faces he knew,
might recognize him. His terror increased
when he saw a light on a workman's face — a
face he knew well, for the man had slipped
over the side of the dock one morning, and
was in imminent danger of being jammed
by some floating timber, when Everard had
promptly sprung after him, regardless of
prison discipline, and held him up, for he
could not swim, till a rope was brought, and
the two men were hauled out, bruised but
otherwise uninjured.

The man stopped ; Everard went straight
on, not appearing to see him, and, after a
few seconds, to his dismay, heard footsteps
running after him. He dared not quicken

VOL. II. S

his pace, lest he should attract attention, but
the food he was eating stuck in his throat,
and his face paled. His pursuer gained his
side, and, seizing his hand, pressed some
pence into it, saying, in a low tone, "Mum's
the word, mate ! All the ready I've got.
Simon Jones, 80, King Street, for help.
Better not stop."

Then he turned and resumed his road, telling
his companions something about a chum
of his down on his luck, and Everard
slouched on with a lightened heart, and
increased gratitude for the pence. He had
now nearly two shillings in his pockets, and
when he had lighted Balfour's briarwood he
felt like a king. The last time he handled a
coin was when he gave pence to a blind man,
sitting by the police-station at Oldport, just
before his arrest. He bought needle and
thread to repair the tremendous fissure in the
unlucky garments which had played him so
ill a trick, and in two hours' time found
himself well clear of the town and suburbs.
Presently he found a shed used for sheltering

cattle, but now empty. This he entered,
and, having with soaie difficulty drawn the
chief rents in his clothes together, washed
his wound in a trough placed for some cattle
to drink from, and bandaged that and the
worst hurts in his hand with the handkerchief
in which the bread and cheese was wrapped,
lay down on some litter behind a turnip-cutting
machine, and in a moment was fast
asleep, utterly oblivious of prisons, wounds,
and hunger.

When he awoke, with the vague consciousness
of change which heralds the first waking
after a decisive event in life, he felt a strangely
unprotected sensation on looking up at the
blue sky, which showed through the gaps in
the slightly thatched roof, and seeing a green
pasture, with cattle grazing upon it, spread
broad and sunny before him on the un walled
side of the shed, instead of the close white
walls of his cell. His sleep had been so profound
and refreshing that it took him some
seconds to recall the events which preceded
it. Hunger and the sun told him it was late

afternoon ; prudence bid him rest the wounded
leg, but hunger counselled him to go out and
buy food first.

A short walk along the dusty high-road
brought him to a little general shop at the
entrance to a village, where he bought a
penny loaf and a little cheese, and was confounded
by the affability of the mistress of
the shop, a tidy young woman, with a child
in her arms.

Warm walking," she observed, as she
weighed his cheese.

It is warm," he faltered, with a strange
embarrassment ; for he had been addressed by
no woman since the bitter hour of his parting
from Lilian, nine years ago, and had a confused
idea that he must be very respectful to
every one in virtue of his low position.

Tramped far ? " she added, wrapping the
morsel of cheese in paper.

'' No, ma'am ; only from Portsmouth," he
replied ; and, taking his purchase with a
Thank you " and a touch of his hat, he was
limping out, when the woman called him

back. " Seems to me you've been ill, and
you've seen better days by the sound of your
tongue," she said. " What have you eat today
? "

A good breakfast of bread and cheese."

'' And you just out of hospital, as I can
see ! Poor chap ! and your hand bad, too.
Come into my room here, do. Here's some
bacon and eggs my master left from dinner ;
I'll warm it up in a minute. We shan't
miss it, and it will do you a sight more good
than that poor bit you bought. Come on indo,
the children and me is just getting our
teas."

Everard's instinctive courtesy bade him
accept this kind offer, and he got a cup
of hot tea and a good meal of warm food,
and, what was better than all, the refreshing
sense of human kindness, and departed with
gratitude, having won golden opinions from
his hostess by his quiet civility and wise
observations upon the teething of her infant.

He was grateful also for the hint about
the hospital and the refinement of his speech,

and resolved to adopt the broad Hampshire
drawl, familiar to him from babyhood.

He trudged on with a better heart, bent
chiefly on finding a refuge for the night.
As he approached a pretty cottage, with a lawn
before it and a garden behind, a pony-carriage
passed him and drew up before the gate. It
was driven by a lady in mourning, who
looked inquiringly round before alighting.
Everard ran up, touching his hat, and held
the pony's head, while she got out, entered
the wicket gate, rang the bell, and was
admitted by a smart maid.

Here was luck at the very beginning.
The lady, whose face he had not observed in
the hurry, but whose dress and appearance
as she walked up to the door he had ample
leisure to study, was good for at least a
shilling, and would ask him no questions ;
he might soon hope to buy a shirt. He
patted the pony's sleek neck and knocked
off a fly or two, and wished he knew of a
high-road studded with ponies waiting to beheld.


Then he looked at the two pretty children
the lady had left in her carriage, and their
sweet faces filled him with a sense of old
familiar home - happiness, and his memory
called up a pleasant summer scene on
the lawn at Malbourne — of the twins, with
little Marion between them, pretending to
chase the big boy, Harry, who fled backwards
as they advanced. He remembered
the twins' black dresses, which they wore
for one of the brothers they lost in infancy,
and the scent of the hie-blossom overhead.


The children in the pony-carriage were
prattling merrily together, and making comments
on all they saw, himself not excepted.
He had incautiously taken off his hot felt hat
for a moment to cool himself as he stood by
the pony, and this action greatly interested
the younger child, a blue-eyed boy.

*' Why is all 'oo hair cut off?" he asked,
earnestly regarding him. '' Has 'oo been to
mizzen ? "

I have been ill, sir, and my head was

shaved," replied Everard, colouring with
dismay, and quickly jamming his hat well
on, while the little maiden rebuked her
brother for his rudeness.

He did not mean to be rude," she explained
; " but we are staying with our
grandpa in the dockyard, and Ernest sees
the convicts go by every day, so we play at
convicts, and he cut his little brother's hair
off to make it seem more real. Wasn't it
naughty ? "

Yery naughty," replied Everard, charmed
with the music of the sweet little refined
voices, a music he had not heard so long.
The little girl reminded him of his old pet,
Winnie.

Why didn't 'oo die ? " continued the boy.
'^ Mine uncle did die. The soldiers put him
on the big gun, and shouted him when he
was in the ground, and the music played, and
mamma kind."

Hush, Erne ! I am glad you got well,
poor man ! " said the little maid, demurely.

'' When I grow up," proceeded the boy,

I sail be a admiral, like grandpa, and have
sips and guns and a swords

congratulated him on his choice ;
but his little sister said he had better be a
clergyman like their father, and make people
good and preach.

"I don't want to peach," said the little
man, pathetically. ^' I want to be a admiral,
and have sips and guns and swords."

Then the door opened, and the lady came
out, accompanied by another lady in a
widow's cap, who nodded to the children
and smiled, though she had just been weeping,
and went in ; and Everard, with an
intelligence sharpened almost to agony by
the children's conversation, looked searchingly
from under the hat he had slouched
over his brows at the dark-haired, dark-eyed
lady, as she returned to her carriage, replacing
the veil, which she had raised during
her visit, evidently a sorrowful one, since
she too had been shedding tears.

Everard's heart throbbed almost to bursting
as he met the dark eyes, once so full of mirth

and life, and observed tie familiar carriage of
the still slender figure. It was Marion, beyond
all doubt ; Marion, altered indeed, but still
Marion, the favourite sister, the darling of
his youth — that traitor s wife, as he muttered
between his fiercely ground teeth. Twice
nine years might have passed over her head,
to judge by her looks. The joyous elasticity
was gone from her carriage ; she was pale,
and there were lines of settled care on the
once sparkling face.

She smiled on her children, a tender, sweet
smile, but with no happiness in it, and hoped
they had been good, as she got into the
carriage and took the reins, not observing
the man, who stood by the pony with his
breath coming gaspingly, and his heart torn
by a medley of passionate emotions. He
stepped back when she had taken the reins
and whip, and touched his hat as she drove
on, and then stopped on catching sight of
him, and drew out her purse, whence she
took a shilling, which she gave him. He
touched his hat once more, and was again

stepping back, when she beckoned him
forwards and addressed him.

Are you out of work ? " she asked ; and
he replied slowly in the affirmative.

That is strange," she continued, with a
little severity. " A man of your age and
strength ought to have no difficulty in getting
work just now. The farmers want men, and
the dockyard is taking on extra hands for the
extension works. I hope it is not drink ? "

It is nine years since I touched any
drink," he replied, for the second time moved
to discover himself and ask for the money
indispensable to his safety, and for the second
time restrained by the thought that she was
the wife of that traitor, whose money would
have been like fire to his touch.

He was ill, and they did cut off him
hair," explained the boy.

'' You think of nothing but cutting hair,
darling," said Marion, smiling the tender,
sad smile again ; " I am sorry for that," she
added, addressing Everard kindly. " And
you are looking for work ? Have you been

long out of hospital? Where are your friends?
What ! no friends ? This is very sad. Try
the dockyard. I will speak for you to the
officials. My father is port-admiral. But I am
going home tomorrow; my husband preaches
at home on Sunday. Or stay ! they want a
man at once to mow the lawn at this cottage ;
their gardener is ill. Can you mow ? "

Yes, ma'am."

Say Mrs. Maitland recommends you. I
am sure I may recommend you. You look
honest and steady. I wish I could help you,
but I have so little time now. Can you read ?
Yes ? Then I will give you a little paper my
husband wrote specially for working men.
Out of that packet, Marion."

The little girl's sweet gold curls drooped
over the bag, which she opened, and she drew
out a great bundle of tracts, whence she took
one and handed it to Everard with the Maitland
grace and smile. Her eyes were like
Lilian's, and, looking into their sweet depths,
Everard let the tract fall clumsily into his
brown hand, where one of the lacerations was

bleeding afresh, so that the paper was quickly
stained with his blood.

Oh, his poor hand, mother ! " cried the
child, pitifully. " Mayn't I give him my
handkerchief to tie it up ? "

Everard objected, saying any rag would
serve the purpose ; but Marion bid him take
it, saying that children should learn to give.
Then the boy took a box half-full of chocolate-comfits
and pressed it on him, " To make
'oo hand well," he said. Marion smiled, and
the tears clouded Everard's eyes, and he remembered
how the twins used to give away
their very garments to tramps unless closely
watched.

He stood long looking after the pony-carriage
till the last gleam of the two golden
heads vanished, and the mist over his eyes
fell in two great drops on his face ; then he
remembered his chance of work at the cottage,
and walked up to the door in some trepidation,
and pulled the bell. He thought of
Marion's tears for Leslie, and wondered if
she would shed any if she heard of his death.

AYould she be relieved, as the others doubtless
would, and think it best so ? Did she ever
tell the children of another uncle, their
rather's friend, lost before they were born ?
'' Mamma kind " when the soldier uncle was
borne with honour to his grave ; but she let
her children play at convicts, and watch their
dolorous daily procession for pastime.

The door opened. " We don't want no
tramps here ! " cried a shrill voice ; and a
hand banged the door in his face again, and
he stood confounded in the porch. Then he
stepped back and took a survey of the house,
and was much relieved to see the young widow
at a writing-table, just within an open window
on the ground floor.

He went up when he caught her eye. " If
you please, ma'am, I heard you wanted a
gardener," he said, lifting his hat.

And they banged the door in your face,"
she replied gently. " But why did you not
go to the back door ? The girl was naturally
-cingry."

The back door was another custom to learn.

He faltered out an apology, and then proffered
his request for work. " I am not a
regular gardener, but I can mow and do odd
jobs, and badly want work, being just out
of hospital," he said.

I am only a lodger," replied the widow ;
but I will ask." And she rang the bell
and summoned the landlady, and, to Everard's
surprise, asked her as a favour to employ him.
You see that photograph, Mrs. Brown ? "
she said, pointing to one of an officer in
regimentals on the table before her. " Now,
don't you see a likeness ?"

"To whom?" asked the bewildered woman;
and Mrs. Everard indicated Henry by a slight
gesture.

You will think me foolish, but I cannot

mistrust one so like " Here she burst

into tears, and Mrs. Brown lifted her hands
in dismay.

Poor dear ! her wits are troubled by her
loss," she thought. 'that ragged tramp like
the poor gentlemen in his smart uniform,
indeed ! "

I certainly see no likeness, ma'am," she
replied, after a long and depreciating glance
at the tattered figure on the lawn, " but I'll
do anything to pleasure you ; and I do want
the grass done, and even if the man isn't
honest " .

I was to say that Mrs. Maitland recommended
me. I held her pony just now,"
interposed Everard.

This ended the discussion ; and in a minute
or two Everard found himself, scythe in
hand, busily mowing the little lawn, to the
great discomfort of his torn hands, which he
had to bind afresh as well as he could. However,
he got through his task in a couple
of hours, swept the turf clean, nailed up
a creeper or two, and did one or two odd
jobs about the place for the damsel who had
dismissed him with such scorn, and did not
leave the cottage till after dark.

Whenever he paused in his work and
looked up, he saw Mrs. Everard's eyes bent
wistfully upon him, and knew that she was
comparing his features with Leslie's. Marion

had not recognized the playfellow and companion
of ber youth, but this woman's eyes
were made keen-sighted by love and sorrow,
and traced out the ordinary fraternal resemblance
beneath the disguise of the weather-browned,
tattered vagrant. His heart warmed
to her and to the child, who ran about,
prattling and getting in the way of his
unsuspected kinsman. If Leslie had been
alive, he felt that he could have asked him
for succour.

That night he passed on a half-made rick
of hay, a fragrant, warm, and luxurious
couch, sheltered from the sky by a sheet of
sailcloth spread entwine to keep off showers.

He thought it better not to seek work so
near the town, since he had wherewith to
get food for the day, so he set off northwards,
and walked as far as his wounded leg would
let him, revolving many schemes for escape
in his mind as he went along. He took out
his tract, " Plain Words for Plain Men," and
read it with inward sarcasm. It was beautifully
written and lucidly expressed ; by the

VOL. II. T

Eev. Canon Maitland, Rector of St. Swithin's,
at some country town, Rural Dean ; author
of several religious works set down in due
order.

So he is a canon, is he ? " muttered
Everard, fiercely, as he limped along in the
burning sunshine. " How long does it take
to grow into an archbishop, I wonder ? And
how much damned hypocrisy and lying and
treachery does it take to make one ? " and he
tore the paper into a hundred fragments
and dashed it into the road-dust, where he
stamped savagely upon it. Then he thought
of Marion and the sweet children who were
kind to the ragged vagrant, and his heart
contracted with a wild pain.

At noon he rested in a wood, where a thick
undergrowth of hazels made a shelter from
eyes as well as from the sun. On the missed
and tangled roots of an ash-tree, he sat at
the edge of the hazel wall, just where the
ground sloped down to a little stream, which
bickered over its mossy pebbles with a
pleasant sound, and caught in its tiny wave

the cool lights glancing through the wind*
stirred boughs above it.

This was better than prison, Everard
thought, as he stretched his weary, hot limbs
at length on the dry, short grass, and gazed
up through the gently waving, sun-steeped
leaves at glimpses of blue sky, and listened
to the brook's low and soothing song and the
whispering of the laughing leaves, and smelt
the vague, delicious scent of the woodlands,
and forgot the aching of his wounds and the
cough which had shaken him since the chills
of his night in the wet elm-tree.

For the moment he wanted nothing more.
It would be sweet, after those long years of
toil and prison, to wander thus for ever in
the beautiful summer weather quite alone,
his whole being open to the half-forgotten
influences of free earth and sky, fields and
streams and woods, sunrises and sunsets and
solemn nights marked by the quiet marshalling
of the stars, till he was healed of the grievous
hurts of his long agony. Even the hunted
feeling, the necessity for hiding and being

ever on the alert, even the danger that
dogged every step, was refreshing and stimulating.
This wild life was full of adventure,
and roused his faculties, which the iron hand
of bondage had benumbed.

The simple meal he had purchased tasted
deliciously, the brook's water was like
sparkling wine in comparison with that of
the prison. For company his cell boasted at
most an occasional spider ; while here in the
wood were a thousand friendly guests, flying,
creeping, swimming, humming, peeping at
him with bright, shy eyes, chirping, and even
singing a fragmentary song in the noonday
heat.

A wren, beguiled by his long stillness and
the tempting crumbs he strewed, hopped
up within an inch of his motionless hand,
and pecked pertly at the unusual dainty.
Everard remembered the wren he had seen
on his last day of liberty, the wren which
nestled on Lilian's muff and let her touch
him, while he and Cyril looked on, and Cyril
said that it was Lilian's guilelessness which

gave her such power over dumb creatures.
He remembered asking Cyril how he, who
was equally guileless, had lost this power,
and Cyril's agonized rejoinder, " Henry, I
am a man."

CHAPTER VI.

After his simple meal, Everard spread his
treasures on the grass before him, and eyed
them lovingly. It was so long since he had
possessed anything save his own soul, and
that he could scarcely keep from the devil's
clutch, that he enjoyed them more than those
who possess their own bodies and the labour
of their hands, and perchance much more, can
imagine.

The first treasure was the box of comfits,
with the gay picture on the lid, which had
doubtless charmed the innocent gaze of its
boy owner. It had contracted a slight stain,
which vexed him, but he ate one of the
comfits slowly and luxuriously, and it made
a glorious dessert. By its side, carefully
secured from flying away by a pebble, lay

the little handkerchief with its initials,
M. L. M. He had not used it for his hand,
but had begged rags instead.

It seemed sacrilege to make use of this sole
token of little Marion's sweet nature, but it
would be a capital bag for the money which
glittered on the grass before him, Marion's
shilling among it ; that he resolved to change
only in dire need. Balfour's pipe was the next
treasure, and into that he put the last of the
screw of tobacco, and smoked it with a happy
heart, thinking gratefully of the woman who
gave him meat, and of Leslie's widow and
her kindness to him. She too had brought
him out a cup of tea during his mowing, and
the little child had carried him a great hunch
of seed-cake, and though these had been
welcome enough, the gentle words and looks
had far outweighed them. Musing on these
things, he fell fast asleep, with the unguarded
treasures by his side, and did not wake till
late afternoon, startled, but reassured to find
his possessions intact.

He had hitherto chosen field-paths as much

as possible, always keeping a high-road insight,
and shaping his course by the sun ;
but now it became necessary to take to the
road, which was full of dangers for him. He
met a policeman or two, each of whom eyed
him curiously and doubtfully, and one of
whom accosted him, and put him through a
series of questions as to whence he came,
whither he went, and what was his name
and occupation ; to which Everard, with inward
tremors, answered calmly enough.

His name was Stone ; he was just out of
hospital ; he was tramping to his friends,
who lived on the other side of London, and
was glad to do odd jobs on the road, if the
policeman could put him in the way of such.
The policeman, who was not a very brilliant
fellow, was perfectly satisfied to let him pass,
though he was actually, like all the police
around, on the look-out for a man of his
height, figure, and appearance.

As he drew near a little village, he saw a
provision-waggon, drawn by a pair of horses,
standing outside a public-house ; the good

fellow who drove it was absent, and doubtless
refreshing himself in the cosy bar within.
Everard passed on through the village, and
read the milestone at the other end, which
recorded the number of miles to London. He
had only lessened the record by twelve that
day, and made up his mind to tramp far into
the night, if his strength held out.

A great clatter suddenly arose behind him,
and, turning, he saw the provision-waggon
pelting down the sloping village street with
no one on the box. He rushed back, putting
up his arms and shouting ; one or two men
followed his example, and at the top of the
hill he saw the driver, red-faced and breathless,
pursuing the horses, whip in hand. The
runaways cantered on, and Everard threw
himself upon them, grasping the near horse's
head, but he was carried off his feet and
dropped ; then he rose and caught them
again, till he succeeded in stopping them,
after a very plucky struggle. The driver
offered him a lift, which he gratefully accepted,
together with some tobacco, and they

jogged on till night, when they reached a
country town.

Passing the town, Everard walked on till
after midnight, and then slept under a haystack.
Early next morning he went into a
farmyard, where he saw a farmer sending his
men off to work, and boldly asked for a job,
and found himself, after a little hesitation
and questioning, among a hay making gang,
with whom he worked till evening, obtaining
permission to sleep in a barn that night, and
the promise of work on the Monday, that
being Saturday night.

He was glad enough to lie still that Sunday
morning, and rest on the bundles of straw
which made his couch, listening to the
drowsy chime of the church bells, and enjoying
the luxury of a roof which was not a
prison, until increasing hunger compelled
him to rise soon after noon. As he passed
through the farmyard, he saw a red-armed
maid feeding the pigs with skim milk and
cold potatoes, on which he cast as wistful an
eye as the prodigal did on the swine's husks.

He was passing on, when the farmer's
wife, rustling in her Sunday silk, came in on
her way from church ; Henry touched his
hat and opened the gate for her, while she
asked him rather sharply why he was hanging
about the place. He told her that, being
very weary, he had but just risen, and promised
not to come again till night.

We are obliged to be careful about
harbouring strangers," she said, softened by
his reply. " We never know who they maybe
; escaped convicts from Portsmouth as often
as not. One convict got loose only the other
day in the thunderstorm, and may be hiding
about here, for all we know. Where are you
going to get dinner ? At the public-house ?
A bad place. Maria, bring out the pie that
was left yesterday, and a mug of ale. And
after you've eaten it, you can be off. There's
church this afternoon, if you'd only got
clothes to go in."

Everard dined very happily on the low
stone wall of the courtyard, though a meat
pasty with good gravy is not the most convenient

dish to eat with the fingers. He effected
a total clearance, however, to the deep admiration
of Maria, who watched to see that he did
not make away with the dish and mug, and
went on his way refreshed.

He got paper, pen, and ink at a public
that afternoon, and wrote a long letter
to Lilian, telling her of his escape, and asking
her to send a few pounds to him at the postoffice
of that little village.

He would have felt less pain in applying
for money to Lilian than to any of those on
whom he had a more direct claim, but who had
so totally cast him off. As it chanced, however,
she had his watch and chain, which he
had lent to Mrs. Maitland on the very morning
of his arrest, and he only needed the
value of that for his immediate purpose,
which was to get decent working garments,
and, as soon as his hair was grown, to try fora
passage to America. If Lilian cared to
apply to his family, and they offered large
aid, well. He would not refuse help, save
from Cyril ; but he would not ask it.

He worked on for three or four days, till
the farmer had got all his hay in ; then he
was obliged to try elsewhere, and, in trying,
lost several days. Every few days he returned
to Hawkburne to see if there were
any answer to his letter, and every time he
got a negative from the postmistress a keener
disappointment seized him. He got a day's
work here and an hour's job there during the
next fortnight, but no regular work.

When he got money, he dared not spend
it on a good meal ; he knew that he must
husband it for the days when there was no
work. What with poor food and open-air
sleeping, and the cough and rheumatism
which he got that night in the damp tree, he
fell into poor condition, and, though his hands
were almost healed, and the gunshot-wound
no longer caused him to limp, people did not
care to employ such a gaunt, starved, hollow-checked
man.

He had passed three weeks in liberty, and
had been several days without any work ; for
it was an unfortunate time. Haymaking

was just ended, and harvest not yet begun ;
everybody was at leisure and no one wanted
any odd jobs done. His only chance was to
wait till harvest. But waiting was the
difficulty. He looked at the richly waving
fields, mellowing day by day, and knew by
their tints that it must be a week or two
before the first was ready for the scythe.
How close at hand harvest seemed to the
farmers and their busy housewives ! Visits
must be paid and purchases made in the town
because harvest was so near ; but how far off
it seemed to Everard, seen across a gulf of
starvation ! The workhouse meant certain
detection and capture ; he resolved to beg.

He had been two days without food, and
dragged his faint limbs back to Hawkburne
late one Saturday afternoon, to inquire once
more for the letter and remittance, which
surely could not fail to have arrived now.
In the event of being absent or ill, Lilian
must have got his letter by this time, and
would certainly send a reply at once, even if
by another hand. It was scarcely worth

while to beg on the road back to ,
help being so near. He pulled himself
together, and entered the little post-office
with quite a jaunty air ; but one glance at
the postmistress was enough. She shook her
head before he had time to speak.

Nothing for you, Stone."

Are you quite sure ? Have you looked ? "
he asked, turning many shades paler.

Looked ? yes. And nice trouble I've had
with you worrying day after day these three
weeks, and much thanks I get for it," she
replied snappishly ; for it was Saturday, and
she had just taken her hands from the
scrubbing-pail for the third time for nothing,
and had had nobody at hand to scold all the
afternoon, and the baby had just awoke with
a terrific screech.

I am sorry to have troubled you," he
returned ; " but I cannot understand it. The
letter was so important. My friends know
how desperately hard up I am, and the remittance
was my own money."

I dare say. Why don't you take and goto

your friends ? Keeping me here all day,
and this blessed child " — she had run and
fetched the infant, which was screaming and
kicking with fifty-baby power in her arms —
a precious dear ! and its mother worried
with tramps then. There, there ! "

I thought, perhaps," he added, raising
his voice above the maddening din, " it might
hav been overlooked. Accidents do happen,
ma'am, however careful people are. If you
would be so kind as to search again."

I dare say, indeed ! There ! look yourself
then, unbelieving Jew — there, there, mother's
precious ! — and get along out of my shop
with you this minute ! "

If you would give me a sheet of paper for
the love of Heaven, and let me write again."

Go on out of the shop, I tell ye ! " cried
the angry woman, deaf to all his entreaties.

He sat down in the hedge by the roadside
in utter despair. What if Lilian were dead ?
Even then others would read the letter. Had
she forgotten him ? It entered his heart like
a sharp knife. But no; Lilian could not

desert even an insect in its pain. His hands,
in which his face rested, were wet ; he found
he had been crying in his disappointment,
and he was not ashamed. He cried on, dimly
conscious of bodily exhaustion and illness,
and after a time got up, feeling that he must
do something ; he knew not what.

Now that there was no longer hope to
buoy him up, he found a difficulty in walking
in his weakness and pain. He dragged himself
to the Rectory and begged. The rector,
a rich man and a generous, drove him from
the door. He never encouraged tramps,
Stone should go to the workhouse, he said.
He next tried a comfortable house, in which
some wealthy maiden ladies lived, with no
better success. The ladies and their maids
were frightened to death at the sight of him,
and threatened to send one John — who, if he
were other than a phantom of the ladies' own
conjuring, was truly of a singular taciturnity,
and possessed of the power of making himself
invisible — for the police.

Everard wandered down the neat gravel

VOL. II. • u

path with a sick heart ; and, turning up a
lane, he came upon a cottage, where a poorly
dressed woman stood nursing a child at the
gate. He would not beg of her ; but she,
who knew him by sight and name, as having
helped at hay making with her husband,
accosted him, and asked if he had got work
and the remittance he expected. He shook
his head in reply, and she asked when he had
last eaten, when he again shook his head, and
smiled faintly. She looked at him with a
pitiful expression, and bid him walk in and
rest, which he was glad to do.

Then she warmed some cold tea and cold
potatoes, and set them before him, apologizing
for the poor fare, and observing that her
husband, whom Everard knew to be a drinking
man, had not yet come home with the
weekly wage. Wolfishly as he had eyed the
good creature's simple cookery, Everard
found that he could not finish what was set
before him ; he was too far gone.

That night he passed in a half-ruined and
disused cattle-shed, not far from Hawkburne,

and in the morning he rose and trudged
along the high-road to the next village, asking
an occasional alms when he fell in with the
church-goers, but getting none. The little
belfry of the village church, the name of
which he never knew, had a sweet peal of
bells. Their sweetness charmed him to tears,
and he thought how pleasant it would be to
go to church once more, a free man ; so, after
the congregation had entered the little fane,
he dragged his fast-failing limbs into the
churchyard, and looked in through the lower
part of the lozenged-pane window, the top
of which was open.

The interior of the cool dark church, with
its low, heavy stone arches, sculptured tombs,
and rustic worshippers, ranged in orderly
quiet, was a refreshing spectacle to the outcast's
eyes, and, leaning on the broad stone
window-ledge, he saw and heard all. The
Psalms were being read, and his heart
bounded strangely as he heard, " When the
Lord turned the captivity of Zion, then were
we like unto them that dream ; then was our

mouth filled with laughter and our tongue
with joy." Surely his captivity was to be
turned at last.

The organ pealed, and the simple chants
fell pleasantly on his ear ; but his head swam
so that he lost parts of the service, and those
verses rang on through his mind. He roused
up during the Second Lesson, and heard,
with deep emotion, the following, passages : —
*^ I was a stranger, and ye took me in :
naked, and ye clothed me : sick and in
prison, and ye visited me ; " — and a sensation
of awe and horror fell upon him when he
realized that a whole congregation of
Christian worshippers sat listening to those
words of terrible and tender meaning, while
he was perishing within earshot, unrewarded.
Of some of them he had begged in vain ; the
man who was even then reading, ^'Lord,
when saw we thee hungry and fed thee ? "
was the very man who drove him but yesterday
from his door, sick and starving ; of the
others he felt he dared not beg.

Then he remembered that his brother

George was, perhaps, then reading those
very words, " When saw we thee in prison ? "
and Cyril, the traitor Cyril, in his large town
church, was most probably reading them too,
reading them in his voice of magnificent
power and pathos to an awed multitude. In
every church in the land those awful and
beautiful words were being read, and yet he
knew that no help could come to him.
Depart from me, ye cursed," burst forth
the rector, with sudden sonorous energy, and
Everard shuddered and sent up an agonized
prayer for Cyril.

The sun was hot, and he grew weary of
his place by the window, and sat down
among the green graves beneath a shady
tree till the congregation came out. Then he
rose, when they were all gone, and knocked
at the first cottage door he reached, having
learnt by this time that the poor are better
almoners of hand-to-hand charity than the
rich, because they know better what it is to
go without a meal. Some bread was put in
his hands, with words he was too dazed to

hear; but he found, on trying to eat the
bread, that he could not swallow it.

All that day he lay in a field, and at evening
rose with difficulty, and asked for a
night's shelter ; for the dews were chilly,
and he knew that he was now too ill to bear
exposure. It was refused.

He wandered a little further on, and sank
on the bare earth in a sort of stupor, from
which he was roused by the chilly dawning
of the next day. He was on a bank beneath
a large lime-tree, by the side of a brook,
which sang in quiet undertones, like the
brook in the wood where he dined so happily
when first at liberty. He could not move.

At first it seemed terrible to face death
thus, outcast and alone, and all the scenes
of his life flashed past him, and the strange
anguish which falls on us at the thought of
dying in the midst of sorrow, before any
hope has been fulfilled, seized upon him with
vulture beak.

Did his mother bear him with bitter pains
for this, to die in his prime of want and

hardship ? All the high hopes and rich
promise of his youth smote upon him with
keen anguish, and Cyril's one message to him
in prison, " He shall make thy righteousness
clear as the light, and thine innocence as the
noonday," shot across his brain in letters of
fire.

Some feeling of family pride revived within
him, and he thought how much harder it was
for an Everard to perish by the way than for
one born by the wayside and nurtured in
want. He thought of Leslie. Did he lie
alone thus face to face with death, when he
got the wound which in the end proved fatal ?
How different that dying on the field of
honour must have been ! And yet, how
small, how phantom-like everything earthly
seemed in that hour of tremendous reality !
Did not one event happen to all ?

The green fields, dewy bright in the rising
sun, reeled before him, and he summoned his
failing forces and applied them to prayer for
all who had been dear to him.

He was now no more alone ; the sweet and

awful consciousness of a Divine Presence
came upon his calmed soul. Lilian's beautiful
voice seemed to speak passages full of mighty
hope from the Scriptures ; he heard the
brook's low murmur and the light whisper of
the leaves above his head. He seemed to be
resting on some kind arm, which was now
Lilian's, now an angel's, and the rose-flushed
morning sky at which he gazed opened and
disclosed indistinct forms moving in light.
He saw his mother's face, Leslie's, the baby
Maitlandss, so long dead; majestic presences,
spiritual beings, souls of the noble dead
hovered near in august silence, through
which a mighty music of unutterable joy
swept in melodious thunders.

The vision vanished in a keen chill, and be
woke to find rain pattering on his upturned
face. The fresh shower renewed his sinking
energies, and cleared his brain ; some animal
instinct told him day was declining. He
knew that the bitterness of death was past.
It was sweet to feel the soft rushing of the
cool rain on his face ; it seemed a pleasant

thing to die thus, to cease from painful being,
and mingle with the kindly elements and
dissolve into the gracious components of the
great universe.

The brook sang on, and the leaves rustled
lovingly together, and a little wren suddenly
let its strong heart of song loose upon the
air ; such a volume of melody from such a
tiny breast ! He remembered what Cyril said
one day of the wren's song — " If the mere
joy of animal existence evokes such a passion
of rapture, what must be the fulness of bliss
called forth by the consciousness of pure
spiritual life, unfettered and unclogged by sin
or sense ? "

It did not seem strange that Cyril was
sitting there by his side, discoursing in the
old bright way, with the old familiar kindliness
and something more than the old
radiance of youth in the blue eyes, whose
light was blended confusingly with that of
the broad heaven above, whence the clouds
were rapidly sweeping. Cyril spoke of the
broken Sevres vase, laughing at the childish

terrors of that bygone transgression. " You
got the blame, old fellow, and the punishment,
but I got the suffering," he said.
*' Yes," he added, in the thoughtfulness that
was wont to descend upon the twins in their
lightest moments ; " the sorrow of sorrows
is sin."

Then Cyril seemed to fade, and only Lilian
remained, unseen, supporting him till he lost
all consciousness.

It is a case of want and exposure," said
the doctor, bending over the lifeless form
beneath the tree, and applying brandy to the
closed lips. " Stand back, if you please. I
wonder that you picnickers let the man lie
alone here all these hours ! "

'' We thought he was drunk," replied a
young man, with an air of compunction.
'' We passed him at noon, and did not pass
again till five, when he seemed to be asleep.
Tramps so often sleep half the day."

And Smith saw him at nine, and he was
begging in the village yesterday, and must

have lain here all last night, and it is eight
o'clock now. What do you think of that,
inspector ? "

I think," replied the police inspector,
who had chanced to be driving by in his
dog-cart, with a couple of stout constables,
just after the village doctor's arrival, " that
this is the very chap we've been wanting this
three weeks. There will be a gunshot-wound
in the leg. A gentleman of your profession,
doctor, if this is my man. Not dead, is he ?
What, more brandy ? and not a sign of life
yet."

'' Nothing in the pockets but this," said a
constable, showing the empty comfit-box, the
handkerchief marked " M. L. M.," and the
piece of bread given on the Sunday. " Ah 1
and his name is Stone, and he's been after
letters at Hawkburne this three weeks, has
he, sir ? And begged at the Rectory, did
he?"

We had our eye on that post-office, but
never chanced to light on the man," added
the inspector. " Quick with those blankets,

there ! Here, doctor, isn't this a gunshot-wound
? He'll be all right at the station-house.
He can go in a cart, I suppose ? Our
own surgeon will look to him there. If you
don't mind the trouble of going with him,
doctor, nobody will hinder you. Do you
think he'll die on the way ? "

A week or two later, there was a cheerful
family group in Canon Maitland's drawing-room,
the windows of which stood wide to a
small lawn sloping down to a stream, beyond
which lay the little country town, half veiled
in light smoke-mist. His twin-sister was
there, with children playing at her knee, and
his pretty wife sat at a tea-table and talked
to him on various homely themes.

And why do you think, Marion," asked
Lilian, after a thoughtful pause, during which
she had not been listening to them, " that the
man who held your pony at Burnham was
the escaped convict ? "

Lilian," interposed the canon, quickly,
how often have I begged you to spare me

these topics ? You know I cannot hear that
word without pain."

Perhaps," said Lilian, " I should hear the
word with less pain myself, if I did not know
that Henry was at Portsmouth."

Cyril's face blanched, and he was about to
reply, when the door burst open, and Keppel
Everard rushed in.

'' By George, Marion ! " he cried, " that
runaway convict whose adventures wee were
reading yesterday, turns out to be that poor
devil Henry ! "

'' I knew it ! " cried Marion, passionately.
Oh, Lilian, I might have saved him, and
I did not ! He was so like him, but so worn
and old. Oh, Lilian, his eyes when he looked
at the children ! And Amy saw the likeness
to Leslie. How little she guessed ! "

How do you know this, Keppel ? " asked
Cyril, in his deepest tones, while Marion
sobbed convulsively, and Lilian, marble pale,
clasped the child which was leaning upon her
more tightly, and listened.

The governor of the prison told my

father. Henry was at death's door from
exhaustion and hardship. He wanted instructions
about burying him, but the poor
fellow got better, unluckily — for all parties."

For heaven's sake, calm yourself,
Marion ! " said Cyril, who was himself
trembling exceedingly. " The children are
frightened. By the way, Lilian, I never
gave you the letter Lennie brought this
morning. It got mislaid somehow among
Winnie's, and ought to have been delivered
weeks ago."

Lilian took the letter with an abstracted
air, and was about to put it in her pocket,
when the post-mark, Hawkburne, caught her
eye, and a closer examination showed her
that the handwriting, distorted and irregular
as a wounded hand had made it, yet faintly
resembled Henry's. She tore it open, read
it, and fainted for the first and last time in
her life.

END OF VOL. II-vol.

III.

CHAPTER I.

One bright summer morning in the year
1881, a man was travelling through the heart
of Devonshire to Exeter in a first-class carriage,
the only other occupant of which was
a comfortable-looking clergyman, who was
evidently able to digest the Thirty-nine
Articles and a good daily dinner with equal
facility, and whose parish, no doubt, showed
a happy sterility of evil-livers and dissenters,
with an equally happy fertility of tithes.
This clergyman's kindly, fresh-complexioned
face assumed an expression of singular concern

and perplexity whenever he looked, ashe
did furtively from time to time under
cover of his newspaper, at his fellow-traveller.
The latter was a gaunt, haggard man, with a
worn and wasted face, which was partially
covered by a beard, the even and sharply
cut ends of which showed that it had only
recently been allowed to grow, and was
lighted by dark, deeply sunken eyes of a
kindly but singularly wistful expression ; the
beard as well as the hair was grizzled.

The man looked about fifty or fie and
fifty ; his shoulders were bent, and he walked
with a stiff and laboured gait. His manner
was shy and uneasy ; he wore gloves, which
he never removed ; and his dress consisted of
a badly made and ill-fitting suit of grey.
The clergyman recognized this suit of grey
as that which is supplied to discharged
prisoners and soldiers.

It was scarcely possible to recognize in this
bowed and broken man in the ill-fitting grey
suit, the handsome, light-hearted young fellow
who travelled down to Oldport with another

clergyman only eighteen years before, full of
health and hope and intellect, and talking
gaily of all things in heaven and earth.
And yet, if you looked carefully at him, there
was the same direct and clear gaze in the
candid brown eyes, the same sweetness about
the lips, the same look of moral strength in
the whole face.

But there was no longer the air of intellectual
power or the confident calm of a
man whose fate is in his own hands, and
who means to mould it to noble purposes.
Eighteen years of intense suffering, heroically
endured, had marked the face with an unspeakable
nobility and gentleness — an expression
which deeply impressed and mystified
the clergyman opposite him, who knew perfectly
that the owner of this sublime face
must have left Dartmoor but an hour or two
before.

Yes ; Everard was free at last. The day
for which he had sighed through all that
furnace of long years had actually dawned.
He might come and go beneath the broad

heaven above England as he listed. The
fever of this thought had kept him awake
through the long hours of the last night in
prison ; and yet, when he turned his back
on the grim buildings of Dartmoor, he could
scarcely see them for tears.

He left friends behind those stern walls —
friends who would feel his departure as an
irreparable loss, friends for whom his heart
bled. In the wide world into which he was
thrust alone, after a lifetime spent in unlearning
its ways, he had but one friend ; one who
had seen him last in the flower of youth
and intellect, and who, in spite of her long-tried
and unswerving devotion, might shrink
from the wreck he now was, ruined in
health, shattered in nerves, and with blasted
prospects.

These thoughts made him turn a wistful
gaze upon the purple slopes of Dartmoor
whenever a turn of the line brought it into
sight. The rapture he had felt in freedom
on his temporary escape, nine years before,
could never more throb so strongly within

him. Those later years had wrought more
cruel effect upon him ; the privations of that
brief spell of freedom — which, nevertheless,
was in his memory like the very breath of
heaven — and the illness which followed them
had more surely sapped his strength. His
captivity had been more rigorous after that ;
he had worn irons. The routine had now
more effectually numbed his faculties, so that
at last it had grown to be a necessity ; and
now that he found himself thrown on his
own resources, and dependent on no will
but his own, he was like a lost child, half
frightened and bewildered by the pettiest
responsibilities of life.

He dared not encourage the good clergyman's
kindly attempts at general conversation,
and the paper he lent him was as if
written in an unknown tongue. Who could
understand the Times of to-day, if the events
of the last twenty years were a blank to
him ? Empires had disappeared from Europe
since Everard's incarceration ; fresh empires
had risen ; English society and English

public opinion had undergone a total change ;
English politics had been radically altered;
more than one revolution had been accomplished
; old landmarks were swept away ;
the world had made mighty strides onwards,
for better or for worse ; and of all this he
knew nothing.

At Exeter he felt more at ease. Leaving
the station on foot, he went into the streets of
the ancient city, not heeding the cries of
cabman and hotel touts, not dreaming that he
could be addressed as " Sir," who had so long
been only No. 62, and pleasantly excited to
find himself moving unhindered among crowds
of free fellow-creatures. The cathedral bells
were pealing merrily for some festival ;
soldiers were marching with bright music
through the streets, which were thronged
with women and children in light summer
dresses. How beautiful they all looked, after
the ghastly figures of the convicts in their
hideous garb of uniform shame ! and how
delicious was the free air and sense of
motion at will !

He entered the first tailor's shop, and got
a suit of ready-made clothes, which he put on
there and then, not unmindful of a curious
smile on the showman's features at sight of
the grey suit. Here also he purchased a
suitable outfit for a few weeks ; then he got
a portmanteau, and, feeling a different being
in a dark and well-made suit, he got himself
some boots at a fashionable boot maker's ; and
then went to some dining-rooms and ate his
first free meal with rising spirits, and was no
longer startled when the waiter addressed
him respectfully, and waited on his behests
with " Yes, sir " and " No, sir."

When he returned to the station and took
his seat in a third-class carriage to London,
he looked what he was, a gentleman, save for
his hands, which he kept carefully gloved.
He had many travelling companions now,
having chosen to go first-class in the grey
suit in the hope of being alone and unnoticed, "
and to the conversation of these he listened
with a kind of awe ; for none of them were
criminals — all were free, and they spoke of

things and moved in a life of which he had
been long ignorant.

He had purchased some periodicals with a
strange joy in the novelty and freedom of
the act, but he could not bring his attention
to bear upon them ; his mind was too full.
He could not even listen to the conversation
of his fellow-travellers, which had at first
such a strange interest for him.

He gazed out upon the swift-rolling summer
landscape, and rejoiced in the roses which
starred the passing gardens in June luxury,
and wondered if it were really he. His
captivity was turned, and he was indeed
like unto them that dream. It was so sweet,
and yet so terribly sad. Not only were
youth and strength and hope gone, but the
very world from which he had been so
suddenly torn was almost swept away.
Leslie was dead, and Marion and Mrs. Maitland
and his father, the stout old admiral,
and they had never known that he was
innocent. Did they know now, he wondered,
and could they bear the thought of the

other's guilt, or were all things earthly to
them as if they had never been ? And of
those who remained, how much of the old
selves he remembered still lived ? The long
years had bad no power to touch Lilian's
loyalty, but what had they done to herself?

The train rushed clattering into a large
station and stopped. Some of his fellow-travellers
got out, disinterring their buried
parcels and wraps with cheerful bustle. A
young lady begged his pardon for incommoding
him — bow strange the slight courtesy
seemed ! — others wished him good morning,
and he returned the salutation with a dim
feeling of transgression ; he could not yet
realize that he might speak without leave.

A girl with a sad face offered roses at the
windows, and brightened when he bought
some. He had touched no flowers since he
gave those to Lilian on the fatal New Year's
Eve. Those were virgin-white, which should
have been red with blood ; these were warm
crimson and gold.

It was dark night when they reached

London. Everard scarcely knew what to do
in the tumult and din of a great metropolitan
station. At last he found himself and his
brand new portmanteau in a hansom, driving
towards a hotel he mentioned, half afraid it
might have disappeared from the face of the
earth.

At the time of his conviction the law
which forfeited the property of felons was
still in force, so that he would have been
penniless had not the admiral left him an
equal share with his other children at his
death, which occurred some five years back.
This little property — which was, of course, in
the hands of trustees — had been accumulating
during those years, and would now afford
him a moderate income, which he still hoped
to increase by the exercise of his profession.
He was to see the late admiral's man of
business on the morrow, and when that was
done he scarcely knew where to turn.

He could not go to Lilian with the prison
taint still upon him ; the thought of that was
unendurable. She did not know the exact

date at which he was to be set at liberty,
so he decided to spend a week or two in
getting accustomed to a free life, in ridding
himself of some of his enormous ignorance
of everyday affairs, and in purging his
memory of prison degradations. Then he
had messages to deliver to the friends of
his fellow-prisoners, and set about that at
once.

London oppressed him with its immensity
and tumult and the awful sense of loneliness
which it produced ; so after a few days he
went into the country, resolving to stop
wherever fancy prompted. During those few
days he had looked into much new literature,
with an appalling sense of being left far
behind his age. The medical and scientific
journals gave him the keenest stab ; science
had made such mighty strides without his
aid, and the theory, the darling theory which
was to effect a revolution in medical science,
had already been formed by another and
accepted by the world.

Perhaps country air would restore his

shattered nerves. There is no nurse or healer
like Nature ; to her kind arms he would flee
for refuge. But along that very line he had
travelled down to Malbourne with Cyril
nearly twenty years ago, and the memory of
it tore his heart. " An ascetic is a rake
turned monk," he had told Cyril, little dreaming
what a home-thrust he was giving. And
here was the massive cathedral, and here the
towers of Belminster, a place associated with
scenes so agonizing. Yet he remembered his
jest to Cyril about the bishop.

He got out at Belminster, attracted by the
strange fascination which belongs to scenes
of past suffering, and, leaving his things at
the station, strolled leisurely down the steep
street, and looked with infinite compassion at
the gaol in which he had endured such agony.
The place was not altered ; people might have
been strolling about just the same while his
torture was going on.

There was the lovely old Gothic cross,
standing a solitary relic of dead centuries,
and wondering silently at the feverish present ;

there were the old houses, jutting out upon
pillars over the street and hiding the dark
shops ; there, finally, was the hoary cathedral,
girdled about by its lofty trees and its green,
quiet close, into which he strolled with a
feeling of sweet refreshment. His eyes rested
lovingly on the pleasant scene, so full of old-world
associations, so suggestive of all things
soothing and sweet ; a place in which one
must think of past things and of things
eternal, and yet which is linked so harmoniously
with things passing and the little life
of to-day.

He strolled into the grey, vast, echoing
interior, and, sitting down opposite the open
door, lost himself in a pleasant dream. How
sweet it would be to live there under the
great minster's shadow, within sound of the
holy bell ; to lead a gentle, holy, uneventful
life, pacing daily that rich green turf, looking
on those great trees and red-roofed houses,
and on the pillared cloister yonder, and on
the light-springing arches of the Deanery, as
one passed to and fro, lowly, perhaps, but

calm and happy ! Something hight fluttered
between the slender black pillars of the
Deanery entrance. It was a young lady in a
gay summer dress, who passed out and
walked along by the old cloister with an
indescribable grace in the carriage of her
slim figure.

The sight of her youth arid beauty called
up pleasant visions of sweet and tranquil
home life — life rich with love and duty, and
adorned with culture and refinement ; and a
little sigh escaped him in spite of himself,
when he thought of the possibilities of life,
and remembered what he had missed in his
long agony. People began to stream in
slowly by twos and threes, and he observed
that the bells were chiming languidly ;
visitors with guide-books went out or moved
forwards ; a dark, thin young clergyman,
with a rapt face and ascetic lips, ascended
the choir-steps, and recalled the Cyril of
twenty years ago with strange vividness ;
the great organ began to boom ; the choristers
paced slowly in, heavenly boy faces showing

above their white robes, or men with worn
and rugged faces ; the bright silk hoods of
the clergy gleamed as they passed ; evensong
began.

Everard did not dream of entering the
choir ; the thought of mingling with others
on equal terms even in an act of worship was
as yet far from him. He felt himself a dweller
on the outskirts of humanity ; it was as yet
a great boon to be allowed merely to look on
without rebuke. So the solemn words and
heavenly music came echoing beneath the
dim arches brokenly to his far-off ears, and
their peaceful spell drew him gradually nearer
to the choir.

At last the anthem began, and his soul
melted within him beneath the passion of the
full voiced strain, and he stole silently up the
matted steps with bowed head, his consciousness
merged in the meaning which the mellow
voices strove with conflicting endeavour to
make clear. The glorious tumult increased
till it dissolved in a triumph of harmony ;
and then above it, like a lonely sea-bird soar-vol.

III. C

ing over a sea of stormy, foam-tipped billows,
there rose a single boy's voice, so sweet and
pure, so full of unconscious and unutterable
pathos, that Everard trembled as be heard it,
and stole on to the very gates of the sanctuary
to listen. Higher and higher the solitary
boy-voice rose, till it seemed as if it must be
finally lost in some clear heaven of ineffable
sweetness ; there it hovered and paused, and
then descended, rising and falling again
upon the pinions of strong melody, till it fell
at length half wearied into the sea of deep
and mellow harmony.

The listener outside the sanctuary gate
gazed in in a tumult of unspeakable feeling,
not knowing what memories and hopes and
longings the boy's beautiful voice awakened
within him, but vaguely conscious that he
had stood thus before in some far-off forgotten
time, seeing all his lost youth flash by him,
and realizing the spell of Lilian's long-missed
presence once more.

The anthem died away, and Everard came
to himself, and thought how unfitted he was

for life with a nervous system so sensitive,
so liable to escape control, and he remembered
the scorn which once mingled with his pity
for such weaklings. He scorned no man now.

The chorister with the beautiful voice had
a face of equal charm — a face from which
Everard could scarcely avert his eyes. The
other boys looked roguish enough, though
they were very well behaved — pattern
choristers, indeed ; but this lad's face and
demeanour had a singular pathos, and his
eyes, instead of being bent, as the others were,
on the desk, had a forward or upward gaze
during his singing. He evidently knew all
his music by heart.

When the service was over, and the
worshippers had left the building, Everard
strolled down the nave, looking at different
monuments, and spoke to the verger, whose
offer to guide him he had refused.

"• I know the cathedral well," he said, " but
I have not seen it for many years."

You may have travelled and seen a
sight of cathedrals since, but you won't see

many to beat Belminster," said the verger,
proudly.

Not many ; and it is in better order than
in former times. And what a very well-behaved
choir ! I suppose your dean is a
good man."

Yes, sir ; the dean is very particular
about the cathedral. He takes an interest in
every creature about it, too. We all have to
mind our ^s and q's, I assure you, and we'd
do anything for him. He's that taking in
his ways, to be sure."

And who is your dean ? " asked Everard,
indifferently, as he was turning away.

Bless my soul alive ! " exclaimed the
verger ; '' don't you know who the Dean of
Belminster is ? Excuse me, sir, but where
have you been not to have heard of Dean
Maitland ? "

Everard was glad he had turned away, and
he did not reply for a moment.

No doubt I appear very ignorant," he
said at length, with a little smile, " but I
have not been near Belminster for this twenty
years."

But not to know Dean Maitland ! Why,
all the world knows the great dean. The
books he has written, the things he's done !
Nothing can be done without Dean Maitland.
He's the greatest preacher in the Church of
England. They're going to make him Bishop
of Warham soon. Why, bless you, sir, when
Dean Maitland preaches in Westminster
Abbey, extra police have to be put on, and
people wait outside for hours. To think you
never heard of Dean Maitland ! " and the
verger looked up and down Everard, scanning
him as if he were some strange natural
phenomenon.

"The greatest preacher?" repeated Everard,
his heart throbbing painfully. " What is his
Christian name ? "

The greatest, and the bishop, Bishop
Oliver, the Bishop of Belminster, is the next,
and some think he runs the dean close,"
replied the verger, with satisfaction ; " Christian
name, Cyril. You should hear him
preach, sir, you should indeed. People comedown
to Belminster on purpose. He preaches

tomorrow in the nave. A series of evening
lectures to working-men, and the dean takes
his turn tomorrow."

I will come," said Everard ; and he moved
away, and stood gazing abstractedly at the
ancient font, consumed with the strangest
excitement.

*' It is very old, sir," said a sweet voice
behind him ; and, turning, he found himself
face to face with the chorister who sang the
solo.

He was a slight, delicate lad, some ten
years of age. with dark hair waved over his
pure white brow, and beautiful blue eyes
gazing with a strange pathos from the well-featured
face ; and the singular beauty of his
voice was enhanced by the purity of his
accent, which was that of a gentleman.

Old indeed," returned Everard. " Old
Oliver couldn't batter that ; it is too
solid."

You know, of course, that he smashed the
west window," said the lad, pointing to the
great window, with its singular pattern.

formed by piecing the broken fragments of
richly coloured glass together.

Everard replied in the affirmative, and
moved on, the boy accompanying him, and
discussing the different objects of interest
with singular intelligence.

You do not tire of the cathedral, though
you sing in it daily ? " asked Everard.

No, I never tire of it," he replied, gazing
dreamily round ; "it is such a beautiful place.
I love the vastness of it. I spend hours here ;
it is my home."

He had insensibly stolen his small hand
into Everard's, who was thrilled deeply by
the warm, soft grasp, and he now led him onto
show him an ancient tomb.

Have you been a chorister long ? "
Everard asked.

Only since we came to Belminster, three
years ago ; then I was the smallest boy in the
choir." He did not go to school, he said, in
reply to a query ; he had a tutor. " My name
is Maitland," he added ; " Everard Maitland."

Everard's hand tightened convulsively over

the child's slight fingers, and he gazed searchingly
in his face, which betrayed no surprise
at the intent gaze.

Ah ! the dean's son," he said, after a long
pause.

Yes," he replied, with a proud little air ;
the dean's son. Do you know my father ?
Have you heard him preach ? "

Not of late."

He is a very good father," said the boy ;
and I am his only son. People think him
great, but he is better than great ; he is good.
We have no mother. What time is it ? " he
added, as Everard drew out his watch to
conceal the tumult that was stirring within
him.

Everard silently turned the dial towards
him for answer.

I can hear it tick," said the child, regretfully
; " but I cannot see it."

Not see it ! " exclaimed Everard, in
surprise.

No, sir ; I am blind. You are surprised?"
he added, after a pause; "people

always are. I was born blind, and I have
been trained to be as independent as possible.
I show it more in a strange place. I know
every inch of the cathedral, I love it so."

Blind ! " echoed Everard, at last ; " and
you are his only son ? "

His only son. It is a terrible grief to him.
It is little to me ; my life is very happy, and
my father is so very kind. And they let me
sing in the choir and play the organ. Few
boys have such pleasures as I."

You bear your affliction manfully," said
Everard, laying his hand tenderly on the
child's head and gazing thoughtfully on him
for a space. " But how can you enjoy the
cathedral if you cannot see its beauty ? "

I can feel it. I have heard its different
parts so often described, and I know its
history so well. Then I can hear by the
echoes how vast it is, and how lofty, and the
way in which the music rolls about it describes
its shape. I could feel you standing at the
font just now, and I know when you are
looking at me. I knew that you were a goodman

the moment you spoke. Your voice is
familiar to me. You see, we blind people
have other senses to make up, sir."

The child smiled as he said this, a smile
that touched Everard to his heart's core.
Cyril and Lilian smiled thus, but the child's
smile had a sweetness beyond theirs, one
which is only born of suffering.

They had now reached the open door,
through which entered the reflected warmth
of the sunshine, which the blind boy said he
could feel, and here they parted.

Good-bye, sir," said the boy, pressing his
hand, and directing upon him the strange
unaware gaze of the blind. " We have had a
charming talk," he added, in Cyril's own
fascinating manner.

"Good-bye, dear little fellow, and God
bless you," replied Everard, returning the
pressure of the delicate hand. " Stay," he
added, as the child stepped out into the
sunshine. " Had you not a brother named
Ernest ? "

Oh yes," he answered ; " they say he

was such a strong, healthy boy. He died
when I was a baby. My poor father has lost
many sons and daughters, and I can never be
anything but a care to him. He has only my
sister to comfort him. Good-bye, sir ; I shall
be late ; " and, taking off his hat once more,
he sprang down the steps and across the
pavement, to an iron railing which here fenced
the turf. Everard watched him as he vaulted
it easily, and dashed, as seeing boys dash,
headlong across the green, making a slight
turn to avoid a collision with a solemn clergyman,
who lifted his hat to him, and then
flying straight under the slender arches of the
Deanery entrance, where he vanished from
sight.

Poor young gentleman ! " said the verger,
who was standing behind Everard, chinking
a shilling the child had given him. " Nothing
pleases him so much as showing the cathedral
to strangers, and keeping his blindness from
them. Many and many a one he's took in.
But he always gives a verger a shilling after
taking a party round ; he wouldn't take a

man's bread out of his mouth. It's a sore trial
to the dean, sir, you may depend upon it. It
was trouble to his mother caused it, they say.
Just before he was born she went through a
deal in her mind, and was never the same
again. And that affected the boy's nerves,
specially the optic nerves and he was born
blind. Pity, isn't it ? We shall miss Master
Everard when the dean is Bishop of War-ham."


"No doubt," said Everard, moving abstractedly
away, his eyes rivetted on the
Deanery ; " no doubt."

Lilian had gradually ceased to mention
Cyril in her letters ; indeed, since Marion's
death, she had not mentioned him at all, and
Everard had never during the whole of his
imprisonment named the name of the man he
had so loved, and for whom he had suffered
so cruelly. And now he found him the great
Dean Maitland, too great to be merely the
Dean of Belminster ; he belonged apparently
to the higher order of deans, like Dean Swift
and Dean Stanley, and was, moreover, Bishop-elect

of William. And William was the
greatest see in England ; its bishops had
ranked as princes in olden days. There was
but one greater dignity in the Church — that
of archbishop. Everard paused opposite the
Deanery, and looked long upon it, while a
singular conflict of feelings raged within him.

On this very spot, eighteen years ago,
Cyril himself had stood, an obscure curate,
while Everard was undergoing his terrible
ordeal before the judge, and had reflected, in
spite of the tumult within him, upon the
advantages of being a dean.

He had looked with keen outward observation,
as Everard was looking now, on the
majestic pile of the grey cathedral, rising
above the sedate red roofs and gables of the
quiet and dignified close ; on the same elms
and limes, leafless then in the March sunshine,
and had heard the rooks cawing in their lofty
circles overhead, with the same suggestions
of boyhood and home and the breezy downs
about Malbourne ; — there he had stood, though
Everard did not know it, and fought an

inward battle in which his soul's best powers
were overthrown.

Some such battle raged within Everard
now. He thought of his long agony, and
the crimes which caused it ; he thought of
his heart's best friendship, and the treachery
which betrayed it ; he repeated to himself
with various intonations of scorn and indignation,
" Dean Maitland, Bishop of Warham ; "
he thought of the guileless child with his
angel voice and his lifelong affliction ; he
thought of his own broken health and ruined
life ; he thought of Lilian wasting her youth
in loneliness, and asked himself how he could
forgive the traitor for whose crime he had
suffered — the traitor who dressed in fine linen
and dwelt in palaces among the greatest in the
land, while the betrayed wore his heart out
in a prison, clothed in the garb of shame, and
herded with the scum and off-scouring of vice.
He could not bear these distracting thoughts ;
he turned with a gesture of fierce indignation,
and, striding hurriedly along the close, passed
beneath the Gothic gateway, in whose angle

was niche a tiny church, passed along amid
a crowd of happy schoolboys in front of the
college, and did not breathe freely till he
found himself once more in the bustling High
Street.

CHAPTER II.

The Deanery drawing-room looked out upon
a soft stretch of lawn, partly shaded by some
magnificent trees, and bounded by a delicious
old garden with warm red walls, on which
fruit was ripening in the July sun. The
mullions casements, with their diamond
panes, stood open to let in the sunny air
laden with the scent of carnations, roses, and
mignonette. All that refined taste backed
by a long purse could do towards making a
room beautiful and suggestive of art and
culture, as well as perfectly comfortable, had
been done to this room, which, as everybody
knew, had been arranged by the dean and
his twin sister. Nor did the apartment lack
the crowning grace of a charming mistress ;
the dean's only daughter, a girl of fifteen or
sixteen, but apparently much older.

She sat, becomingly dressed in some light,
fresh material, near an open casement by a
low table, on which a tea-service was placed,
and was talking in the liquid Maitland
voice to several ladies and three young and
seemingly unmarried men, two of whom were
clergymen, while the third, the evident object
of the black-coats' dislike, which he as evidently
returned, had something about him
which proclaimed the dashing hussar. He
answered to the name of Lord Arthur.

Benson," said Miss Maitland, addressing
a servant, " tell the dean that I insist upon
his coming in to tea. Say who are here.
It would serve him right. Lady Louisa," she
added, " if I got you to go and rout him out
of his den."

My dear child, the mere suggestion
terrifies me ! " returned the lady. " Imagine
the audacity of rushing in upon the dean,
when he might be making one of his lovely
sermons or his clever books ! "

By the way," interposed one of the
curates, " what an appreciative notice there

VOL. III. D

is in this week's Guardian of the dean's
Epistle to the Romans ! ' Did you see it.
Miss Maitland ? "

Oh, you don't mean to say he is at-clever
as all that, to make a new Epistle to
the Romans ! " exclaimed a very young lady,
whose simplicity was greatly admired.

The door now opened, and the dean
appeared among his guests, making each feel
that he or she was the special object of his
welcoming words and smiles. After this
greeting, his glance ran anxiously round the
room and across the garden in search of
something that he missed. " Where is
Everard ? " he then asked.

Probably in the cathedral," replied
Marion. " He has not returned from evensong."


You were not at evensong, Mr. Dean,"
said a lady. "It is a pity, for Everard
excelled himself in the anthem."

He did indeed," chimed in the young curate
with the rapt face. " I never heard anything
truer or sweeter than that high C of his."

Poor dear child ! his voice is a great
consolation to him," sighed the dean, toying
comfortably with his teaspoon.

I wonder if that voice will last ? " asked
Lord Arthur. " Of course I mean, will it
change into a good man's voice ? "

Probably, with health and good management.
So many good boy-trebles are strained
by overwork, and crack hopelessly at the
change," replied the father.

Now, Lady Louisa, begin your siege,"
said the young hostess. " If you don't do
everything she asks you, papa, you will get
no more tea, remember."

This is alarming," smiled the dean.
Lady Louisa, I appeal to your generosity
not to exact too much from a helpless victim."

"Pile on the agony. Aunt Louisa," cried
Lord Arthur. '' ' Yas victim ! ' remember."

Your nephew's war-cry. The ruthless
soldier flings his sword into the scale," said
the dean.

Yes, and I'd fling myself after it, if you
would only come to Dewhurst next week,"

added the hussar. " You've never seen the
old place, dean, and my father is dying to
have you there, and so is my mother."

And your aunt," added Lady Louisa,
laughing ; " not to mention yourself." And
she proffered her request, in the form of an
invitation from her sister-in-law to the dean
and his daughter to dine and sleep at the
ancient historic ducal castle one day in the
following week.

There, papa," said Marion, with pretty
imperiousness ; " all you have to do is to
name the day."

Alas ! " sighed her father, " next week is
quite filled up."

Oh, but you must come next week,"
urged Lady Louisa. " We shall be alone
then, and able to enjoy you. Indeed, the
duchess will never forgive you if you do not
come."

To incur the duchess's displeasure grieves
me to the heart," replied the dean.

Also mine," added the lady, whom some
people held to be well disposed to wed the

widowed ecclesiastic. She was about five
and thirty and of majestic presence, if not
surprisingly well favoured.

That," he returned, " would reduce me to
absolute despair ; yet I am firm. I am tied
to the stake."

It was while the dean was being thus
implored, coaxed, and threatened, and while
one or two people who would have been
ready to depart this life in peace after an
invitation to the great duke's show-place
were listening with unspeakable envy, that a
servant stole up to the dean and appeared
anxious to attract his attention.

Well, Benson ? " he said at length, having
disposed of the question of the visit.

A young gentleman, sir," said the man,
in a low tone — " refuses to give his name ;
says it is private business of importance."

Why did you not say I was engaged ? "

I did, sir. He said his business was
urgent."

Let him wait in the library."

I wonder how they make bishops, Mr.

Dean ? " asked Lady Louisa, mischievously.
Do they send messengers post-haste to offer
mitres upon their knees just when people are
having tea comfortably ? "

The dean smiled a pleased smile, and
observed that he had hitherto had no experience
of being made a bishop ; and a lady
present remarked that a certain paper had
mentioned his acceptance of the see of
Warham as a fact, and further ventured to
ask if the journal in question was right.

The dean smiled again. '' A man who
declines such an office when duly chosen by
the rightful authorities incurs a tremendous
responsibility," he said, with unusual gravity ;
and the rumour immediately went forth that
he had accepted.

He then withdrew with an apology. " Perhaps
we had better not keep the mitre waiting
too long, Lady Louisa," he observed to that
lady, with his peculiar smile, as he went out.

He reflected, as he left the room, that he
might do worse than marry Lady Louisa ;
also that Lord Arthur, who, though a younger

son, was ricci enough to marry as he pleased,
undoubtedly meant business with regard to
Marion. Lady Louisa was amiable, accomplished,
not dowerless, pleasing, and of a
suitable age. What could a man want more ?
The Bishop of Warham and Lady Louisa
Maitland sounded well. And yet the Bishop
of Warham, leading a life of widowed loneliness
because his conscience put the narrowest
meaning on the phrase " husband of one wife,"
might have more power over men's minds.
But then Dean Maitland belonged to that
class of men to whom single blessedness is a
curse, and his six years' uselessness had
weighed sorely upon him, and he had but
two children, one hopelessly afflicted.

Teaching his study, he rang the bell,
Where is Mr. Obermann ? " he asked of the
servant, meaning his son's tutor.

Out, sir."

'' And Miss Mackenzie ? " — Marion's governess
and companion.

Out, sir. Her Girls' Friendly Meeting
day."

Which that young rascal, Arthur, well
knew," thought the dean. Then he ordered
that a maid should search the cathedral and
close for the blind boy, keeping him in sight,
but not accosting him, unless he should break
his bounds, which were the cathedral precincts,
so careful was the dean of his only
son. " Show the young man in here, Benson,"
he said, in conclusion.

It never struck any visitor, much less this
unsophisticated youth, that the dean's easy
pose in his library chair by his writing-table,
which was so placed that the light from the
lattice fell sideways from behind him, leaving
him in the complete shadow of the rather dark
wainscotted room, yet fully illuminating his
books and papers and the chair fronting him,
in which he motioned his unknown guest to
take a seat, was a calculated one ; but it
certainly had uncommon advantages, since
not a quiver of the penitent's lip, not a line
of his face or a movement of his body was
lost, while the priest's countenance was but
dimly seen in the shade.

Since the production of his popular devotional
work, " The Secret Penitent," Dean
Maitland's ghostly counsel had been sought
by men and women from far and near, chiefly
from far, and chiefly, though the gentle
reader will probably doubt this assertion, by
men. These men were desirous of remaining
unknown, and sometimes gave names which
they said were assumed, sometimes none at all.

Yery strange tales had been told in that
pleasant little study, in the sight of that
finely carved ebony and ivory crucifix and
those beautiful proof engravings of celebrated
religious pictures, holy families, ascensions,
conspicuously among them a copy of the
Gethsemane which hung in the study at
Malbourne. Cyril imagined that the nameless
youth was another of these penitents,
and received him with a certain tenderness
in his stately manner, which he knew was
well calculated to unlock the sealed recesses
of the heart.

It was a tall, handsome, well-built youth,
whose features and expression kindled a

vague disquiet in the dean's breast, such an
irrational mental discomfort as imaginative
people experience at times, and instinctively
fear to analyze.

He entered the room with a confident step
and bearing, looking boldly forwards with
an almost arrogant self-assertion in his gaze,
which was quickly subdued by the dignified
courtesy of Dean Maitland — a man with
whom, despite his unvarying politeness,
which was almost courtliness, no man ever
dared take a liberty. It seemed as if the
youth, entering with his bristles all on end,
had expected hostility or at least repression,
and, receiving a suave cordiality instead, was
for the moment confounded. He felt himself
enveloped in a blue radiance from the dean's
strangely beautiful and powerful eyes, which
searched him, measured him, explored him
to his remotest recesses, and reduced all his
pretensions to nothing.

A man sitting at a table with the
implements of his daily occupation before
him has a great advantage over one who

sits unoccupied in a chair in the full light,
for the express purpose of talking. This the
dean knew, and he never committed the
error of walking; into a room to bertin an
interview with a person he intended to influence,
though no man knew better than he
how to walk into a room.

Sitting at ease in his wooden chair, with
the open lattice, picturesquely tangled with
invading roses and ivy, behind him ; with his
melodious voice and refined accent, new to
his listener's ears ; with his graceful limbs
showing to advantage in his black dress with
shorts and gaiters ; and with his well-formed
hands in harmony with his severely cut
features, which, however, were only dimly
seen, he cast a spell over his visitor ; — he
suggested, further, that harmonious blending
of aristocratic piety which is peculiar to
the English dean, and perhaps to the
French abbe before the Revolution, and
which had so fascinated his own youthful
gaze. He made a picture in the oak wainscotted
room, with its latticed casements,

ecclesiastic adornments and suggestions of
honoured antiquity, which quite overpowered
the unaccustomed gaze of the younger man,
who never forgot it.

The dean's practised eye soon saw that his
visitor was not a gentleman, though near
being one. He was ill dressed in a badly
made light suit, which hung loosely upon
him, and yet became him. A crimson scarf
was fastened carelessly about his neck by a
flashing pin, and that also well became his
dark and handsome features. His strong
hands were brown and large, but well-formed.
He used his straw hat to emphasize
what he said. He was full-grown, but so
young that his face was smooth, save for
the slight indication of a moustache. " He is
quite honest," the dean thought.

I come from America," he began abruptly,
in a mellow and powerful voice.

You come from a country of which a
man may be proud," replied the dean, in the
tone which made men love him ; " and you
kindly honour me with a visit ? "

In plain words, sir, what do I want ? "
broke in the youth. " I want to be a gentleman."


A most laudable ambition," returned the
other, smiling.

I want to go to Oxford or Cambridge.
Cambridge I would prefer, because you were
there."

He acknowledged this compliment with
a slight bow.

My father was a gentleman," continued
the lad, in his jerky and headlong fashion ;
but my mother was not."

A man's mother," returned the dean, in
his plaintive voice, " is more usually a lady."

Oh, you are laughing at me ! But I am
English-born, and was brought up a British
subject in the Dominion. My name," he
continued, with some agitation, " is Benjamin
Lee."

He looked earnestly at the face in the
shadowed corner, but he did not see the
sudden and quickly subdued quiver of the
dean's lip. He was aware, however, that

a change bad taken place in his face and
demeanour.

A very good name," he returned, in the
same dulcet tones ; " a very usual English
name."

I was born at Malbourne," the youn^^
man went on, with an increased sonorousness
of voice and intensity of gaze. " My mother's
name was Alma Lee."

Indeed. I remember your mother well.
Is she living still ? "

'she is, and I bring a letter from her.
But that is not what I want to say. My
mother was a deeply wronged woman, and
she never complained. The business. Dean
Maitland, is just this : My father has done
nothing for me ; all has fallen upon my
mother. She has had me well educated for
her means, and wanted me to go into business.
But I am ambitious ; I wish to make a figure
in the world — to be, as I said, a gentleman,
for I feel the good blood in my veins, and I
am determined to have my right, and to
claim from my father what he is well able to

give me — a university education and a start
in life."

Indeed ! " said the dean, in an icy tone.

And therefore," proceeded the youth,
springing to his feet the more to emphasize
his words, " I come to you, because I am
your son I "

The word *' son " he delivered as if dealing
a blow, and he evidently expected his hearer
to recoil beneath this tremendous assertion ;
but he was disappointed.

The dean's fine-cut features indeed grew pale
in the dusk, and there was a sudden deepening
of tint in his eyes ; his lips also met with
a stern compression. But of this the young
man saw nothing, and no other sign of emotion
betrayed the tumult that raged so madly
within him at the sound of that deadly monosyllable.


'' Calm yourself, my friend ; pray be seated
again," he said, in cool and silvery tones.
Since when, may I ask, have you suffered
from this distressing delusion ? "

It was now the younger man's turn to be

aghast. The coolness with which this startling
assertion was received utterly confounded
him, and he dropped, with a vacuous stare,
into his seat, muttering some queer Yankee
objurgation.

Delusion ! " he ejaculated at length.

It is a very usual form of mental disease
to imagine one's self the son of some eminent
person' observed the dean, in the indifferent
tone of one uttering a mild platitude. '^ Are
you at present under medical treatment ? "

No, 5zV," returned the lad, regaining his
mental poise ; " I am as sound in mind and
body as a man can possibly be ; and I know
myself to be your son, and I am here to claim
my rights as such."

The facts of your birth are well known
in Malbourne," continued the dean, in the
same indifferent tone. " They are such as
reverence for parents — a virtue, I fear, not
inculcated in your adopted country — should
lead you to conceal, and, if possible, forget.
I remember the circumstances fully. I baptized
you myself — that is, if you are the
person you claim to be*!

am not surprised that yon sbonld disown
me before the world," said the youth ;
and I own that it is impossible to speak
upon the subject without some irreverence
unbecoming a son ; but I bid you ask your
conscience, sir, whose fault it is that I cannot
refer to my birth without imputing blame to
my parents? I bid you further ask your
conscience how you are to answer at the bar
of Divine Justice, if you add to the sin which
brought me into the world, a fatherless outcast,
with the instincts of a higher rank
warring with the barren necessities of his
life, the further sin of neglecting the responsibilities
you rashly incurred. Oh, I have no
legal rights — that I know well ; but have I
no natural rights — I who have the blood of
an ancient family in my veins, the instincts
of a long line of gentlemen ? Have I no
rights in the sight of Him whose eternal
laws were broken bv the sin which 2:ave rise
to my being, and of which I was entirely
innocent ? "

It was a strange reversal of parts, the son

YOL. III. K

admonishing the father, the layman rebuking
the priest, the supposed penitent accusing
the confessor ; but the youth's fiery words
struck home, and the dean quivered visibly
beneath them, and for the moment he could
summon no reply to his ashen lips.

I am sorry to be obliged to distress you,
sir," continued the young man, with some
compunction, '' but you will see on reflection
that I ask nothing unreasonable. I merely
ask you to repair the wrong of my birth —
or rather, to fulfil the obligations incumbent
on a parent. I have grown to manhood with
no aid or recognition from you. I am alone
in the world ; for my mother has a mortal
disease, and has come home only to die. I
simply ask for this start in life, which you
must be well able to give ; I ask no further
recognition. Believe me, sir, the time may
come when you will be glad to have some
claim on the duty, if not the affection, of a
son, and I am not ungrateful."

The dean rose to his feet, quivering.
"Silence!" he cried, in deep tones of compelling

intensity. " I cannot bear this," he
added, in a voice of anguish, which escaped
him against his will. " This is intolerable,
to be insulted in one's own house ! Go, sir,
and remember that in this country conduct
so outrageous as yours is likely to lead you
to imprisonment in a lunatic asylum."

Now that he was standing he seemed to be
gradually regaining the mastery of himself,
which for the moment be had lost. Young
Lee rose, but did not withdraw.

I go," he replied. "I have said enough
for the present, but you will hear of me
again until I gain my will. In the mean time,
here is the letter my mother bid me deliver
into your own hands, and which needs an
answer."

The dean took the letter with an inward
shudder at the sight of it, and brought out
some glasses, which he affected to wipe and
arrange before reading it, though in reality
he needed no glasses ; he only wanted to
gain time and composure.

By the way, Mr, Lee," he observed

rvm>^ona.«o.s

quietly, " your mother married, I believe,
some groom before leaving England. Is he
living ? "

She married Charles Judkins, who was
a kind stepfather to me. He died some years
ago, leaving my mother and myself well provided
for."

"Your mother, then, has no other children ?"

A one, sir.

The dean had at last arranged the glasses
and unfolded the letter, giving one swift
glance at his visitor, who had walked up to
one of the engravings, a sweet and guileless
Madonna with a thoughtful child, and was
examining it with interest. Nevertheless,
the dean shaded his face from the light as he
read.

The room was very still, and pleasant
sounds stole in through the open lattice. A
great bee was humming about the roses and
honeysuckle just outside ; a blackbird woke
up from his afternoon drowse and began
fluting his liquid vespers ; the cathedral clock
proclaimed the hour in deep booming notes.

and all the bells in the city echoed it with
varying cadence ; young voices came through
the sunny air of the garden, and the stranger
saw a party playing at tennis below ; a girl's
clear laugh rang out in true heart-music, and
was followed by a man's. It was Marion
laughing at some absurd mistake on the part
of the love-blinded Lord Arthur, who was
ready to laugh with her. The dean meanwhile
read on in silence.

The young man grew impatient, and
longed to soothe his soul by a hearty whistle,
to which his full red lips rounded themselves.
He got to the end of the engravings, and
turned once more to the figure at the table ;
but the dean was still reading, statue-like,
with his face accidentally shaded by his hand,
though he never turned a page of the brief
letter of one sheet. The picture he made
sitting thus beneath the lattice, through
which some long golden bars of sunshine were
now stealing, remained upon the young man's
memory for ever, though he did not hear
the quick subdued breathing of the reader.

or see the chill drops upon his tortured
brow.

Within a stone's throw of that lattice one
of the canons was standing on a short ladder,
tending a peach-tree on his garden wall, thus
seeking a pleasant distraction from the-abstruse
Hebrew studies in which he had
been buried all the day. His wife stood in
the pathway by the sunny border, where the
bees were humming luxuriously over their
luscious thieving, and looked on at his
labours.

I had it from the dean myself, Edmund,"
she was saying, " this very afternoon."

Well, my dear," he replied, rather indistinctly
on account of the strips of cloth
he held in his mouth, " you will now have
the satisfaction of repeating it all over the
close. Bishop of Warham, eh ? Maitland is
a lucky fellow, and about as ignorant as that
cat " — pointing to a fine grimalkin, who was
lazily watching his master. " But scholarship
goes for nothing in these radical days."

I am sure he will make a delightful
bishop," said the lady; "and who knows

'^ When not perched on a ladder," laughed
the canon. '' Well, who wouldn't have the
gift of the gab like Maitland ? Lucky fellow,
to be sure ! "

The letter which took so long to read ran
as follows : —

I am come home to die, and I wish to
see you once more first. I promised never to
betray you, and swore away an innocent
man's character to shield you, and I have
never had a happy hour since. I cannot
undo all the wrong I have done for your
sake, but I can and must clear this man,
who never did me harm. I cannot die in
peace till I have righted him. Can I do it
without hurting you ? Come to me for
heaven's sake ; my days are numbered. . My
son bears this. He knows his parentage, but
nothing more. He is a good lad.

'' Alma Judkins."

At last the dean lifted his head and
questioned the youth with regard to his
mothers illness and present abode, and
learned in reply that she was suffering from
some fatal internal malady, which had become
suddenly worse in consequence of a fall in
the Belminster street, and that she had been
admitted to the paying " ward of the local
hospital, whence there was no probability of
her issuing alive.

'' You take your mother's extremity easily,
young man," said the dean.

But the youth replied that he had been
expecting the end for so long that it no
longer agitated him, yet his eyes filled with
tears as he spoke. The dean then took a pen
and slowly indited a few sentences, which he
gave to the young man, who took the paper
and withdrew with a bow, which his host
very frigidly returned.

No sooner had the door closed upon the
young fellow's stalwart form than Cyril
dropped into his chair, and, burying his face
in his hands, groaned heavily, shuddering

from head to foot. If he could have dreamed
this terrible moment twenty years ago, would
that handsome stripling ever have seen the
light? If any man could be brought face
to face with the embodied result of one sin,
would he ever sin more ? Probably he would,
else why has Eternal Wisdom reserved such
knowledge for the most part to another
world ?

A light, swift step sounded along the
corridor ; the door opened, and the blind boy
came running in, with a joyous greeting on
his lips.

The dean lifted his head, and strove to
calm himself as he welcomed the child in a
gentle voice ; but his heart was wrung by the
contrast between this lad and the fine, healthy
youth who had just left him — wrung, too,
by the thought that the latter's look had
shown no gleam of affection ; nothing but a
challenging defiance.

*' I made such a mistake, papa," said
Everard ; " I actually took a stranger for
you. Yet his voice was louder and his step

stronger than yours. I met him in the hall
now. Benson was letting him out. Who
was he ? Benson says his face is rather like
yours, so perhaps I was not so very stupid."

My poor Ev^erard ! " murmured the dean,
folding the child with unwonted tenderness
in his arms ; '' my blighted boy ! "

''I am not poor," returned the child,
brightly, while he laid his round soft cheek
on his father's hollow face with a colt-like
caress. " Now, dada, I won't be pitied.
Benson said the fellow was like you, so his
eyes were little better than my ears. But
who was he ? "

A stranger, an American. So you sang
the solo, I hear ? "

Yes ; and it went so well. My voice
was like a bird flying up to heaven's gate.
Father, it is nice to have such a voice ; it
goes as if it couldn't help it. And I showed
such a nice fellow over the cathedral, and
took him in thoroughly."

Poor lad ; poor dear lad ! And what is
going on now ? "

Virgil with the Herr. And after dinner
Marry has promised to accompany our violins.
And what do you think ? The duke has a
Stradivarius, and Lord Arthur is to take me
to Dewhurst to hear it, and perhaps touch it.
How hot and wet your forehead is ! Is your
head bad ? Am I bothering ? "

The boy's sightless gaze met his father's
glance of passionate tenderness, all unconscious
of the agony it looked upon ; and the dean
turned away, for he could not bear it.
Marion's laugh came floating in again with
its masculine echo, and the child's face
brightened.

Marry and Arthur," he said.

The dean pushed the dark hair from the
boy's brow, kissed and blessed him, and dismissed
him under the plea of a headache
and desire for quiet, watching him leave
the room with a look of wistful compassion.
He loved his blind son better than anything
on earth, but he remembered how
he had held the other lad in his arms at the
font, and how the infant's touch had stirred

the first keen thrill of fatherhood in his
heart.

I dare not, oh, I dare not ! It would be
Titter ruin ! " he murmured to himself, in
reply to some inward suggestion.

The young Canadian meantime left the
Deanery, and, placing his hat firmly on \ih
head, turned to take one comprehensive look
at it before he went round by the cloisters
and disappeared.

Je-salem ! " he exclaimed, " if my
sainted parent isn't a first-rate actor and a
cool hand ! Now I know where I got my
brains from."

The dean sat on, with his head buried in
his hands and his heart torn, with the deadly
missive before him, and utter ruin staring
him in the face, while the long golden bars
of sunshine lengthened and fell across him
unheeded, and the pleasant chime-music told
quarter after quarter.

Oh, my God ! " he groaned, " but one sin
in a youth so spotless ! And have I not
repented ? And are all these years of agony

nothing ? And the work I have done and
have still to do ! And the powers vouchsafed
to me ! Is there no mercy — none ? "

An hour ago he had been so secure, so
unsuspecting — the old ghost laid for ever he
thought. And now? To go to that public
hospital, he, to whom no disguise was possible,
whose very fame would pursue him
and point him out with a finger of fire, to
meet the dying gaze of that hated woman,
to hear her terrible reproach ! How could
he ? And that boy, with his strong self-will
and his ambition — Dean Maitland knew too
well whence he got those qualities — he would
hunt him down without pity. Why not cut
the knot for ever ? He had poison at hand.

The low mellow murmurs of a gong rose
on his ear (there were no bells or any harsh
sounds at the Deanery) ; he heard Marion's
voice calling to Everard, and the tap of her
light foot as she ran downstairs, only just intime
for dinner. He could not take his life
just then ; he had to invent an excuse for not
appearing at dinner.

The perilous moment past, better thoughts
came to him. He leaned out of the window and
breathed the cool dusk air. A wakened bird
twittered happily before turning again to its
rest ; Everard's pure voice floated out from
an open window, with the words of an anthem
he was learning. The dean fell down before
the crucifix, and tried to pray. He lay therein
the darkness while his children's music
sounded through the open windows, till the
moonlight stole in through the lattice upon
him, and there was silence in the house, save
for the ticking of clocks and the deep breathing
of sleepers. Then he arose, haggard and
exhausted, but resolved to do his duty, whatever
it might cost him.

Striking a light, he went to a cabinet
inlaid with delicate mosaic, and touched a
spring. A hidden compartment was disclosed,
whence he took a bottle and a glass on which
measures were engraved. Carefully pouring
out an exact quantity of dark brown liquid,
he drank it and replaced the spring.

The dean was a total abstainer ; he knew

the world too well to hope for influence over
the popular mind unless he bowed to the
idol of the hour, and frequently observed to
friends that he abstained from wine " for
the sake of example." For the same reason,
probably, nobody knew anything about the
little bottle of dark liquid.

CHAPTER III.

When Everard reached the High Street, his
attention was caught by an announcement ina
bookseller s window, "Dean Maitland's new
work," and, on going up to the shop, he saw
the volumes, fresh from the publisher s, in
their plain brown binding. It was the third
volume of the dean's " Commentary on the
Pauline Epistles." There also he saw, in
every variety of binding suited to luxurious
devotion, his other works : his " Secret
Penitent," his " Knight's Expiation, and other
Poems," his *' Lyra Sacra," his " Individual
Sanctity," his " Verses for the Suffering,"
*' Parish Sermons," ^' Sermons preached in
Westminster Abbey," together with endless
tracts and pamphlets. Everard purchased
the "Secret Penitent" and the "Expiation,"
after turning over the leaves of the sermons,

wondering at their commonplace character,
and listening to a long eulogy on the author
from the bookseller. Then he walked up the
hill to the station, dipping into his new
purchases as he went.

Having claimed his modest possessions,
he had them conveyed to the George Inn,
where he dined in a first-floor room with a
bow window looking out on the sunny,
bustling High Street ; and while he dined
he turned over the leaves of the dean's book,
recognizing Cyril's style and certain peculiar
turns of thought and traits of character ashe
read, and feeling more and more that
neither the poems nor the devotions were the
work of a conscious hypocrite. From an
artistic point of view, they were not calculated
to take the world by storm ; but there
was an unmistakable ring of reality throughout,
which entitled them to respect, and
accounted for the influence Dean Maitland
was said to exercise over men's minds. The
Secret Penitent " had passed through many
editions. It must have comforted the souls
VOL. m. p

of thousands of human beings ; it could only
have been written by a man of deep religious
convictions and high-toned morality.

Everard sat in the bow window, listening
to the hum of the streets and the cadences of
the bells, and pondering with a bewildered
mind over this enigma of human character ;
and again he wondered, as he had so often
'wondered during the earlier days of miserable
brooding in his captivity, how it was
possible that such a man could have sinned
so heavily ? He recalled his sensitive refinement,
his excessive exaltation of the spiritual
above the animal, his scorn for the facile
follies of youth, his piety, the purity of his
emotions, his almost womanly tenderness,
and marvelled with a bewildered amazement.
He had himself not been unacquainted with
the fires of temptation, but his life had been
unscathed, nevertheless, because he had been
strong enough to resist. But that such fires
should have power over Cyril seemed incredible,
especially when he remembered his
austere, almost ascetic life.

Equally strange did it appear to Cyril
himself, as he lay prostrate before the crucifix,
face to face with his sin, and wondering if
indeed he were the same man as he who
went astray twenty years ago.

Yet the first sin was simple enough, given
the components of Cyril's character and
Alma's, the strange and inexplicable entanglement
of the animal and the spiritual
in human nature, and the blind madness in
which passion, once kindled, involves the
whole being.

Alma was then innocent of heart ; but
what is innocence before the fierce flame of
temptation, unless guarded by high principle
and severe self-mastery ? Cyril could not
live without adoration, and when Marion
turned from him, he caught at that unconsciously
offered him elsewhere, telling himself
that there could be no harm to such as he,
above temptation as he was, in watching the
impassioned light of Alma's beautiful eyes,
and that pity required him to pour some kindness
into so stricken and guileless a heart.

So in those idle days of the Shotover
curacy he trod the primrose path of dalliance
with a careless and unguarded heart, and
did not waken to a sense of danger until
he found himself and another precipitated
downwards into the very gulfs of hell.
The shock of the fall sobered him, and
suddenly quenched the delirium of the senses
which had hitherto blinded him, and left a
mingled loathing and contempt in its place ;
and the abasement of his own fall and the
terrible sense of having wrought the ruin of
another stirred the yet awakened depths
of his nature, and kindled the first faint
beginnings of deeper moral and spiritual life.
Had he but possessed the courage and
strength of will to accept the consequences,
to confess where confession was due, and to
atone as far as atonement was possible, both
he and the more innocent partner of his guilt
might have recovered moral health, and even
happiness, and he might have led the noblest
if not perhaps the happiest of lives, deriving
strength from his very weakness.

For his life bad till then been attempted,
and all his impulses had been good and
beautiful. But he was a coward, and loved
the praise of men. And more than all
things and persons he loved Cyril Maitland.
He was also a self-deceiver ; he drugged his
conscience, and was dragged into the tortuous
windings of his own inward deceit ; and thus
he fell from depth to depth, like Lucifer,
falling all the deeper because of the height
from which he fell, until he finished in the
perversion of his moral being with the deed
of a Judas. Of that last iniquity he never
dared think.

Everard read and pondered, and pondered
and read, and was filled with awe and pity.
Then, laying the books aside with a sense of
joy in his newly gained freedom, he took his
hat and sauntered along the dusk, yet unlighted
streets, letting his fancy dwell on
brighter themes.

He had not gone far before he met a man
who looked curiously at him, turned after he
had passed, and again studied him intently,

and finally, retracing bis steps, accosted
him.

It is Dr. Everard, surely ? " he said.

"That is my name," replied Everard, a
little startled at the unfamiliar sound of the
long unspoken name. " But I have not the
pleasure of knowing yours," he added,
scanning the figure and face of the respectable
tradesman.

Think of Dartmoor and No. 56," replied
the tradesman, in a low tone.

A light of recognition broke over Everard's
face, and he clasped the offered hand with a
cordial greeting.

It is no wonder that you did not recognize
me," the man said ; " thanks to you, I make
rather a different figure to what T did on the
moor. But yours is a face not to be forgotten."


"You are doing well, apparently, Smithson.


I have a linen draper's shop, and I married
a good girl, and we have two little ones, and
we pay our way," he replied. " If you are

going my way — I was just strolling up the
hill for a breath of air — I will tell you all
about it. You know, doctor, I could never
have had the courage to face the world again
but for you. Your words were always in my
ears, ' The only atonement we can make is to
accept the consequences manfully and conquer
them.' It was uphill work, and I was often
ready to throw up the sponge ; but I stuck toit,
and got through. Everybody knows my
story, but they have mostly forgotten it.
Many a time when I was ready to give up,
and take to lying ways and hiding and going
to the deuce again, I remembered how you,
an honourable gentleman, who never did
wrong, trusted and respected me in spite of
all, and I thought, ^ If he can respect me,
others will,' and I held on. You remember
the Putney Slogger ? "

Poor Slogger ! he had a good heart, Jim."
He goes straight now, and says it was you
that heartened him to it. Has a green-grocer's
cart, and deals fair."

Smithson had been a clerk in a mercantile

office, and, falling into dissipated ways and
consequent debt, helped himself to petty-sums,
which gradually grew larger, until the
usual end of such a course was reached — an
appearance in the prisoner's dock and a
sentence of penal servitude. He was barely
twenty when Everard made his acquaintance
at Dartmoor, and a more hopeless human
being than he did not exist. He had been
brought up by an uncle, who now washed his
hands of him for ever. Everard pitied the
miserable lad, won his affections and confidence,
showed him how he could shorten
his term by good conduct, impressed upon
him that one fault need not blight a man's
life, and encouraged him to achieve a new
reputation.

When he got his ticket-of-leave, he boldly
offered his services in shops and offices at a
low price, in consideration of his antecedents,
and, after many rebuffs and much privation
during a time when he kept himself alive by
casual manual labour, by dint of persistence
and watching the time when employers

were short-handed, he got himself taken on
as assistant in a draper's shop, for which he
had done errands and odd jobs.

Here he suffered much misery from she
taunts and practical jokes of his fellow-shorten,
who managed to get hold of his
history, the truth of which he did not deny.
Did any petty dishonesty occur, suspicion
turned at once to the gaol-bird ; nay, was
anything lost it was laid to his account.
More than once he was on the point of being
taken into custody, when his innocence was
proved ; and once the roasting and sending to
Coventry he underwent at the hands of his
comrades had become so intolerable that, in
his desperation, he offered to fight each man
separately, in order of seniority, on the condition
that the conquered were never again
to allude to his unfortunate past. His
challenge was refused on the ground that
no man could sully his hands by fighting
him, but one or two of the better disposed
from that day dropped the cruel tyranny ;
others followed their example, and Smithson

gradually earned a character and received
full salary.

Then he saved money, and, having gained
that affections of a girl in the millinery department
of his house, felt that he had won the
battle of life. They put their savings together
and started in a humble way on their
own account, and now they had a large
establishment, and paid their way. They did
not, of course, parade Smithson's antecedents;
but they were determined to have no concealments,
and intended that their children,
when of fit age, should know the whole
story. Smithson now related to Everard
how, mindful of his own desperate struggles
and misery on leaving prison, he tried to
lend others a helping hand, by giving them
employment. It was, however, found extremely
difficult to mix them with people of
good reputation. The end of it was that his
entire staff, both of house and shop, consisted
of criminals, all of whom were supposed to
ignore the antecedents of the others, and
many of whom believed the others to be

spotless. Many, whom he was unable to
employ himself, Smithson had set going by
offering security for their integrity, and by
this means had had the happiness of setting
a number of fallen creatures upon their feet
again.

But are you never deceived or robbed ? "
asked Everard, who was deeply interested in
his friend's narration.

Smithson smiled, and replied that his trust
had more than once been abused, but more
frequently justified. That very week he had
paid a hundred pounds surety money.

'* You will not make a fortune at this rate,
Jim."

No, doctor ; but we are content to pay
our way, and we like helping people better
than getting money," he replied. ^' My wife
is greatly set on that, especially on helping
the women. Come and see her ; she has heard
many a tale of you. It will be supper-time
by the time we are back."

Everard gladly accepted this invitation,
and found among Smithson's staff another old

prison friend, whose memory of him was as
grateful as his employer's. Smithson showed
him the photograph of a refined-looking
woman, with a pleasing face. " Our fore-woman,"
he said.

But surely there is nothing against her,"
said Everard.

She had ten years for killing her husband,"
replied Smithson.

Capital woman of business, and the
sweetest temper. The dean got hold of her,
and sent her to me. He stands surety for
those who have no character. Ah ! no one
knows the good that man does ! "

"Do you mean the Dean of Belminster?"
asked Everard, in a hard voice.

Of course ; the dean — Dean Maitland."

Everard again looked at the handsome
milliner, whose face was as gentle as it was
refined, and could not help asking what led
this amiable person to resort to the extreme
measure of murdering her husband. No
doubt he deserved it, he thought ; but then,
so many husbands do, that it would cause

considerable social inconvenience to condone
such acts.

She did it in a passion, poor girl. The
fellow was a drunken brute, years older than
she, and he used to beat her and drag her about
by the hair night after night. She put up
with it, as so many poor things do, and went
starved and barefoot, though they were well-to-do
people. But one night he came home
drunk as usual, and dashed the baby against
the wall, and she took up a knife and stabbed
him to death."

And the baby ? "

The baby is now in Earlswood, a hopeless
idiot. She hopes to have it home to tend
some day. It was a clever little tiling, just
beginning to talk. Nobody but the dean and
we two guess there is anything wrong in her
past. She is only four and thirty now, and
much admired. My wife is very fond of
her."

Have you any more murderers ? " asked
Everard.

Not at present. We are mostly thieves

and forgers just now, and all first convictions.
Ah, doctor! the Almighty can bring good
out of evil, and it was a happy day for many
besides me when first I saw your kind face
in that awful place. Nobody but you ever
told me that good is stronger than evil.
You said it in the exercise-yard that cold,
foggy Sunday, while all that vicious talk was
going on round us, and the Mauled was
making his filthy jokes."

That is all over now, Jim, thank God ! "
said Everard.

Then the former comrades parted, Everard
deeply moved by what he had seen and heard,
and half doubting if the pleasant, open face
of the philanthropic linen draper, with its look
of grave thought and settled happiness, could
indeed be the same as that white, haggard,
abject face with the despairing eyes which
had so moved his pity years ago in the
dreary prison, and thankful for his long agony
if it had been the salvation of but one fellow-creature.


The next evening found him in the nave

of the cathedral some time before the appointed
hour for the lecture, for the verger
had warned him that the attendance would
be very large. The sun was still shining
warmly on the lime-tree avenue outside,
making the fresh foliage glow like a jewel of
unearthly radiance in its blended gold and
green translucent, throwing long powdery
shafts of gold through the windows up into
the dim recesses of the groined roof, and
disclosing carven nooks only thus touched
by the midsummer glory, and dark all the
year long besides. But the body of the
cathedral was solemnly dusk, and great
masses of shadow brooded in the choirs,
transepts, and chantries, and each brotherhood
of massed pillars in the nave was bound
with a girdle of tiny fire-points, which were
to grow larger with the gathering gloom.

Everard watched the great stream of worshippers
pour steadily and quietly in and fill
the long lines of chairs, which made the
pillars look more lofty and the soaring roof
farther off than ever. They were chiefly menthe

lectures being specially given for working
men ; but women were not excluded, and
in some cases accompanied a husband, a
father, or a brother. Men with hard and
stained hands, with clothes still redolent of
the putty, paint, or oil of the day's labours ;
men with rugged, eager faces and athletic
frames, for the most part ; also the pallid,
weak-kneed tailors, shoemakers, and other
indoor-labourers.

Clerks and shorten were also there, with
men of a higher standing still ; but it was
the hard-handed fellows in whom Everard
found himself most interested — those extremely
human creatures in whom the
elementary instincts and passions are still
so active and unchecked, and whose intellects
are so starved and yet so unspoiled. How
would the refined and cultivated dean touch
these ? he wondered. He had lived among
them so long himself that he had acquired a
strong affection ibr the raw material of human
nature ; but what link was there between the
delicate-handed Cyril and these untutored

SODS of impulse ? A link there surely must
be, or they would not thus come pouring into
hear him.

Far down among the hard visages of the
artisans, Everard saw some black-coated,
clerical-looking men, whose peculiar half-finished
appearance proclaimed them to be
dissenting ministers, and he remembered how
the verger told him that the popular Surgeon
himself did not disdain to try and catch the
secret of the dean's golden-mouthed eloquence.

Such an agitation pervaded his being, that
even the quiet majesty of the great dim
cathedral could scarcely calm him. He could
now count the hours before his meeting with
Lilian, and another second might bring him
face to face with Cyril, whom he had last
seen in the terrible moment of his sentence.
It seemed as if the service would never begin.
The worshippers still poured in, the nave was
full ; but where were the clergy ? The organ
had been sounding for some time — soft, mellow
music, as soothing as the wave-lullaby of the
summer sea, with no hint of slumbering

III. G

tempests, and a sick fancy took Everard's
shaken mind that something was wrong, and
Cyril would never come.

He seemed to have been looking at that
dark sea of earnest faces, and hearing that
solemn, wave-like music, for ever in the
beam-broken dusk of the vast building. But
at last a melody rose slowly, like an ocean
spirit, out of the softly breaking waves of
music, and floated away over its surface ;
it was Mendelssohn's, " If with all your
hearts ye truly seek me" — the same which
Cyril had listened to in the hour of his
desperate inward conflict eighteen years ago,
and the small choir entered with two clergymen,
one of whom wore the scarlet hood of a
doctor over his snowy surplice, and whom he
heard it whispered was no other than the
great dean.

He had so stationed himself, partly with a
view to being unseen by the preacher, that
he only caught a brief glimpse of the procession,
and lost sight of the dean entirely
when the latter took the place he occupied

during the prayers, so that he could not
recognize him.

Cyril had risen that morning refreshed
by sleep, and had looked upon the disturbing
events of the previous evening from quite
another point of view. In the evening, alone
in the silence of his study, he had been a
sinful man, face to face with the awful consequences
of his guilt, prostrate before the
God whose laws he had broken, and whose
priesthood he had dishonoured. In the sunny
morning, at the breakfast-table, surrounded
by an adoring family, with servants attentive
to his will, with a pile of correspondence
before him — correspondence in which the
Dean of Belminster was asked to do this and
that, and implored to give advice or attendance
on the other ; correspondence relating to
the Bishopric of Warham, which was now
virtually his own — he was another man :
he was the Dean of Belminster, the Bishop
Designate of Warham, the friend of princes
and ministers, the popular author, the chosen
guide of troubled consciences. This man

naturally thought in other ways than the
conscience-stricken sinner alone with his
guilt.

While breakfasting and chatting pleasantly
with his children, and with Miss Mackenzie
and the German tutor, both of whom were
under the spell of his fascination, an undercurrent
of thought passed through his mind
on the subject of last night's unsuspected
agony. While rapidly running through his
correspondence, and answering letter after
letter with the swift skill of a practised pen ;
while entering the cathedral behind the
white-robed choir ; while listening to the
chanted prayers and psalms ; while sending
his beautiful voice pealing down the dim
aisles on the wings of the ancient Hebrew
poems; — the same undercurrent of thought
flowed silently on.

Was it his fault that a series of blunders
had condemned Everard to an excessive sentence
for a crime that was never committed ?
Was he responsible for the severity of the
judge, the stupidity of the jury, the unlucky

blunderings of the witnesses — above all, for
the perjury of Alma Lee ? A ran may love
a woman who has sinned, but few men love
women who sin for their sake, even though
that sin be of their own compassing. Cyril
had turned from Alma after her first fall ;
but when she stood and swore to the undoing
Everard, he loathed her with an unspeakable
loathing. He said to himself that she
was thoroughly bad, the cause of every
trouble he had ever known ; as the sons of
Adam always do when they sin, he threw all
the blame on the woman.

He argued within himself that it was now
too late for reparation ; by this time Everard
must have nearly completed his term of imprisonment.
His life had been hopelessly
ruined ; to stir the muddy waters of that
bitter past would be merely to bring irretrievable
ruin on others. Alma could not,
he thought, clear Everard without betraying
him.

And then he considered his position in
the Church, his elevation in men's minds,

the influence he had upon his generation — an
influence depending entirely on moral spotlessness,
and asked what sin could equal that
of ruining his own career of exceptional
usefulness ? To comfort the morbid terrors
of a dying reprobate was he to bring disgrace
upon the national Church, of which he was
a chief ornament ; nay, upon the very
Christianity of which he had been so famous
a teacher ? Was he to blast the prospects of
his innocent children ; to bring ruin on them,
and disgrace upon his aged father and upon
the honoured name that even his base-born
son revered ? The thing was monstrous ; the
more he looked at it the more monstrous it
appeared.

Then he remembered how cruel Fate had
been to him, how good his intentions ever
were, how far he had been from dreaming one
of the consequences which wrapped him round
now in a net of such complicated nesting.
As to Alma, it turned him sick to think of a
sin which his inmost soul loathed ; he must
have been mad, possessed, suffering from

some supernatural assault of the powers of
darkness — and he had repented, Heaven alone
knew how bitterly.

He thought of the fatal hour when he
disguised himself in his friend's dress, with
no thought but the desire of escaping recognition
and dread of bringing scandal upon
his cloth, never dreaming that he would be
mistaken for Everard, who was singularly
unlike him in face and manner. He thought
of the heavy stick he had taken, simply
because a man likes to have something in
his hand, and which he had thrown away
before the struggle ; of Ben Lee's unexpected
appearance ; of his own wish to appease the
anger of the man he had so cruelly wronged ;
of Lee's unbridled fury ; of the violence of his
assault upon him ; and of the fatal blow which
had been dealt with no ill intention, but
was merely the rebound of that which Lee
was dealing him.

In all this he felt that he had been the
sport of a cruel destiny, the fool of Fortune.
And had he not suffered enough to atone

for more than men could ever impute to
him He thought of the wife of his youth,
first estranged, and then fading before him ;
of the sweet faces of his children, and the
graves which closed over them in their
loveliest bloom, just as each had twined itself
round his heart. He thought of his son and
his hopeless affliction, and his heart bled.

Yet he intended to go to the dying woman.
But not immediately ; he had pressing duties
to perform first, and who knew what might
turn up in the mean time ? Besides, he
needed time for thought before meeting her.

In the afternoon there came a second
message from the sick woman, bidding him
come that day, as she might not live to see
another. He could not come at the moment,
having just then an engagement that could
not be postponed ; he promised, with a sick
heart, to come in an hour s time.

The hour passed. He took his hat and
yet lingered, going back to give some
message to Marion, then again to look into
Everard's study and see how he was getting

on ; then at last he issued from beneath the
light colonnade before his door, and set his
face towards the hospital. He had not left
the close when a messenger from the hospital
met him, and gave the dean a note, which he
opened with trembling fingers. It was to
inform him that Alma was dead.

He turned swiftly back, and did not stop
till he reached home, entered his study, and
locked the door ; then he threw himself into
a chair, laid his arms on the table, and, letting
his face fall upon them, burst into tears and
sobbed heavily for some time. Something
had turned up, after all, and he was spared
the horror of that dreaded interview, and
could only hope that Alma's secret had died
with her.

He did not leave his study until it was
time to go to the cathedral, which he did
with a sense of unspeakable relief. The
reaction after last night's agony and to-day's
conflict made him see everything in the
brightest colours, and a delicious languor fell
upon his wearied brain, a languor so deep

that he felt incapable of rousing himself to
the effort of preaching. His was, however,
one of those finely strung, nervous natures
which respond to the will as a thoroughbred
horse does to the whip, and do what is
required of them in spite of exhaustion up to
the last gasp ; and when the brief prayers
were ended, and the great volume of men's
voices rolled out the hymn before the sermon,
he pulled himself together and ascended the
pulpit with his accustomed air of reverent
dignity ; and, having turned up the gas-beads
at the desk and placed his manuscript conveniently,
sent a piercing, comprehensive
glance all round the vast building and over
the wide sea of rough and earnest faces which
flooded it, as if taking the measure of the
human material spread out, plastic and
receptive, before him.

The sight inspired him, and sent a thrill
through every fibre of his being ; for his was
one of those magnetic natures whose strong
attractive power over masses is in direct
proportion to the stimulating power of masses

upon themselves. He could not preach to
empty benches, but when he found himself
face to face with a multitude, he threw his
own personality into it in such a manner
that he became, as it were, a part of his
audience, and made it a part of himself, so
that his own emotions thrilled his hearers,
and theirs reacted upon him. This was one
reason why the sermons Everard thought so
commonplace when printed had such a living
force when spoken.

Everard, who was so placed by a cluster of
pillars as to be half shielded by them,
advanced his head and gazed over his hymnbook
; so that he could see the preacher
without much of his own face being seen,
and his first glance at the face, islander from
the dusk in the ruddy glow of gaslight, told
him that he must have recognized Cyril anywhere,
and set his heart beating vehemently
with a mixture of love and hate.

At forty-three Dean Maitland was in his
fullest prime ; the years had ripened instead
of wasting and crushing him, as they had

Everard The 'dark brown hair waved as
gracefully as in 'his youth over his broad,
clear brow, while the few silver threads in it
were unseen ; the finely cut, closely shaven
features were but little sharpened in outline ;
the light blue eyes were more sunken, and
they glowed with an intense radiance. The
old face was there, but the expression was
altered ; there was a hard austerity about the
mouth when in repose that verged upon
cruelty, though no one who had ever seen
those fine lips curve into their winning smile
when speaking could accuse them of anything
harsher than a severe purity quite in
character with the man's writings and his
calling, and during the most impassioned
glances of the wonderfully expressive eyes
they had a certain gleam which suggested the
quaint and quiet humour which made the
dean so delightful in society.

Yet over all the face and in the whole
bearing, Everard saw an expression he had
never seen before, and which he could not
analyze, but which struck him with keen

pain, and called to his mind Milton's description
of the fallen seraph on whose faded
cheek sate care.

All that evening Everard's mind was
haunted by the image of the fallen angel,
once the brightest of the sons of morning,
weighted with his unutterable woe, and
yearning for the lost glory that could nevermore
be his.

In the mean time, the closing notes of the
hymn died away in the long and lingering
cadences of the organ, the great congregation
seated itself with a subdued rustle and murmur,
and the dean, in his magnificent voice
and pure enunciation, gave out his text.

CHAPTER lY.

The voice which had been so full of music
in Cyril Maitland's youth, had now become
not only an instrument of great compass and
rich tone, but it was played by an artist who
was a perfect master of his craft. It was
said of the Bishop of Belminster that he could
pronounce the mystic word " Mesopotamia "
in such a manner as to affect his auditors to
tears ; but of the dean it might be averred that
his pronunciation of " Mesopotamia " caused
the listeners' hearts to vibrate with every
sorrow and every joy they had ever known,
all in the brief space of time occupied by the
utterance of that affecting word. Everard
had heard this saying in Belminster, and
knew well what Cyril's voice was of old, but
he was quite unprepared for the tremendous
rush of emotion that overwhelmed him when

the dean opened his clear-cut lips and said,
with the pathos the words demanded, " We
took sweet counsel together, and walked in
the house of God as friends."

He then paused, as his custom was, to let
the words sink deeply into his hearer's minds
before he began his discourse, and Everard's
very life seemed to pause with him, while he
felt himself shaken in his innermost depths.
Then he remembered that Cyril's passionate
sermon upon innocence was the last he had
heard from him. Since that he had heard
only the discourses of prison chaplains to
an accompaniment of whispered blasphemy
and filth. Once more he saw the little
church at Malbourne, the beautiful young
priest offering the chalice to the kneeling
people in the wintry sun-gleams ; once more
he saw the shadowy figure in the afternoon
dusk, uttering his agonized appeals to the
startled listeners below.

Yes, my brothers," said the dean (he
eschewed " brethren," as both conventional
and obsolete, and dwelt with a loving intonation

on the word " brothers "), " Jesus Christ
and Judas took sweet counsel together, and
walked in the house of God 2^^ friends, strange
as it appears to us, difficult as it is to realize
a fact so startling, since in all the whole
range of the world's tragic history there has
never been found a character so vile as the
one or so spotless as the other.

Yet they were not only friends, but they
actually took sweet counsel together. Picture
that to yourselves, dear brothers : Christ had
pleasant conversations with Judas, asked his
opinion on high and holy subjects, listened to
his words, as you and I listen to the words
of those dear and near to us. Was there ever
a more strangely assorted pair ? And yet "
the dean paused, and sent the penetrating
radiance of his gaze sweeping over the mass
of upturned faces before him — " it may be that
even now, to-night, with these eyes of mine,
I see among you, my brothers, in this very
house of Grod, another pair strangely like
that mentioned by David in his prophecy —
some loyal follower of Christ taking sweet

counsel and walking as a friend with such an
one as Judas, money-loving, ambitious, false ;
musing even now, with the echoes of psalms
and holy words in his ears, how he may
betray the friend who trusts and loves him.
Alas, my brothers, how often is such a companionship
seen ; and how often, how sadly
often, is the guileless friend whose trust and
love is betrayed, a woman ! ' Nay,' I hear
you say, ' we have our faults, we don't
pretend to be saints, but we are not Judases.'
Dare you say that you are no Judas ? " he
added, in sharp, incisive tones, while his
glance seemed to single some individual from
the throng and to pierce to his very marrow
" you, who sold your wife's happiness and
your children's bread for a pot of beer? or
you ? " and here the penetrating gaze seemed
to single out another, while the preacher
launched at him another sharp denunciation
of some homely, everyday vice, using the
most direct and forcible words the language
contains to give vigour to his censures, till
the cold sweat stood upon rugged brows,

VOL. III. H

some women wept furtively, and the dean's
keen glance perceived the inward trembling
of many a self-convicted sinner.

The preacher then observed that the
popular conception of Judas as a truculent
thief whose ruffianly character was ill-concealed
by his thorough-paced hypocrisy was
probably false, and pointed out that Judas
must have appeared to the world in which
be lived a highly respectable and well-conducted
person, if not a very saint. Nay, it
was his own opinion that Judas was actually
a very superior being, a man of lofty aspirations
and pure life, a patriot — one who
looked ardently for the promised Messiah,
and had sufficient faith to recognize him in
the son of the Nazarene carpenter. Why,
he asked his auditors, if he had not been
all this, should he have joined that little
band of obscure men, those peasants and
fishers, those men of austere morality and
lofty converse, who had left all to follow
the young peasant Prophet who had not
even a roof to shelter Him ?

He drew a beautiful sketch of the sweet
and simple brotherhood of disciples clustering
about the Master, who seemed to have inspired
them up to the moment of the crucifixion more
with tender and passionate human devotion
than with awe and worship, and with whom
they lived in such close and intimate communion,
taking sweet counsel together on the
loftiest subjects, and yet sharing the most
trivial events of everyday life ; and asked
his hearers if they thought a mere money-lover
and traitor could have endured such a
fellowship, or been endured by it. But if
Judas were indeed worthy to be chosen as
one of that small and select band (and it
was an undoubted fact that he was thought
worthy and tenderly loved up to the last by
his Divine Master), how was it that he fell
into so black a sin, and stamped his name
upon all time as a symbol of the utmost
degradation of which man is capable ?

Ah ! my brothers," said the dean, " he
was a hypocrite, but so consummate a hypocrite
that he deceived himself. He knew

that he loved God and his Master and Friend,
but he did not know, or would not know,
that he loved mammon — the riches of this
world and its pomps and vanities, its fleeting
honours and transient foam-flake of fame —
better. The bag naturally fell to him because
it had no attractions for the disciples whose
hearts were set upon heavenly treasure only.
The renown of the miracles he witnessed
spread so that idlers flocked as to a show to
see them ; and this and the hope of the
revival of the Jewish monarchy which filled
the minds of all the disciples till after Calvary,
stimulated the man's ambition, which he
probably mistook for devout zeal till that
terrible hour, when the contempt and hatred
which fell upon his Teacher and Friend made
him desert the falling King in his disappointed
ambition, and finally betray Him.

'' I charge you, my brothers," continued the
dean, with a passion that shook his audience,
"that you beware of self-deception. You
may deceive others — yea, those who love you
most dearly and live with you most intimately,

who sit by your hearth and break
bread at your table, through long, long
years you may deceive them ; and you may
deceive yourselves — you may devote all to
God, and yet keep back one darling sin, one
cherished iniquity that is poisoning the very
springs of your being, like the young man
who made the great refusal, like Ananias and
Sapphira ; but remember, you cannot deceive
God'' — here the preacher paused and
choked back a rising sob — " all is open in
His sight " — here the dean trembled, and his
voice took a tone of heart-broken anguish —
** There, my brothers, up there is no shuffling."
There was silence for some moments in
the vast building, broken only by the deep
or quick breathing of the hushed, attentive
multitude, and the great secret of the dean's
power flashed swiftly upon Everard's mind.
It was the fact that the thoughts he was uttering
were not his own ; that he was possessed
and carried away by some irresistible power,
which forced him to speak what was perhaps
pain and grief to him, what was utterly

beyond his will. A strange power, truly,
which made Ezekiel pronounce his own dire
mischance, and predict the taking away the
desire of his eyes for which he dared not
mourn ; which made Balaam bless when he
tried to curse ; and caused Isaiah to foretell
in torrents of fiery eloquence things he
desired in vain to look into — a great and
awful gift when given in even the smallest
measure, a gift called in olden times prophecy,
in these genius.

A deep awe and compassion fell upon
Everard as he looked upon the agitated and
inspired orator, whose soul was so deeply
stained with guilt, and he thought of the
disobedient prophet and of other sinful men,
singled out, in spite of their frailty, for the
supreme honour of being the instruments of
the Divine Will.

Watch against secret sin," continued the
preacher, in a low and earnest but distinct
and audible voice. " Pray for broken hearts,
failure, misery, anything but the gratified
ambition, the fulfilled heart's desire which

makes it impossible for you to renounce all
and follow Christ." Then he spoke of the
remorse of Judas and his miserable end ; said
that even he would have found instant forgiveness
had he sought or desired it. But he
probably did not think it would be given,
since his own love was not large enough for
such a forgiveness, and he thus shrank from
the only possible healing for him. " My
brothers," he said, in a voice which touched
the very core of Everard's heart, " the man
we think most meanly of is the man we have
wronged."

He pointed out the difference between
repentance and remorse ; drew a vivid
picture of the latter, which he said was the
sorrow of sorrows and the worst torture
of hell." He said that nothing earthly could
soothe that pain — not all the riches of the
world ; not the esteem of men ; not the
highest earthly renown, or the enjoyment of
beauty, health, youth ; not all the pleasures
of sense or intellect ; not the sweetest and
purest treasures of human affection ; and the

voice in which he said this was so exquisitely,
so despairingly sad, that a wave of interest
pity rushed over Everard's soul, and a great
sob rose in his throat, and he knew that
the long agony of the prison life, which had
lowed his frame, broken his health, and shattered
his nerves, if not his very intellect,
was nothing in comparison with the secret
tortures of the successful man who stood in
purple and fine linen before him.

"Repent," continued the dean, in a voice
of agonized supplication, " while repentance
is possible. Put away the darling sin, whatever
it may be, before it is inextricably wound
about your heart-strings ; remember that
every moment's delay makes the heart harder
and the task more difficult. Cut off the right
hand, pluck out the right eye "

He broke off abruptly, turned pale to the
lips, and seemed for a moment to fight for
breath. " Oh, my God ! " he exclaimed at
last, in low, agonized, shuddering tones, so
different from the full voice of impassioned
appeal he had been using, that they sent an

electric shock through the hushed listeners,
while the chill drops beaded his brow, and he
gazed fixedly with horror-struck eyes before
him, like one compelled by some irresistible
spell to gaze on what his soul most abhors.

It was the most acute moment in Everard's
life, one to be remembered when all else
had faded — the moment when betrayer and
betrayed met face to face, gazing into each
other's eyes under a fascination that each
strove vainly to resist. Under the spell of
the dean's eloquence, Everard had gradually
advanced his head from the shelter of the
pillars, the gas-beaded girdle of which, in
the deepening of the summer twilight, cast a
strong illumination upon his features, and
thus attracted the preacher's gaze. That
awful meeting of glances seemed to Everard
to endure for an eternity, during which the
breathing of the hi] shed congregation and
the casual stirring of a limb here and there
were distinctly audible in the silence.

Who shall say what these two men, between
whom was so much love and such terrible

wrong, saw in the eyes which had met so often
in friendship in the far-off days, when each
trusted the other so fully ? Certain it is that
there was neither rebuke nor reproach in
Everard's gaze, and that the dominant feeling
in his stirred heart was a desire to comfort
the terrible misery in the false friend's eyes.
But though there was no reproach in the
honest and trustful brown eyes — sunken as
they were in dark orbits caused by long
suffering — the bowed, gaunt form, the haggard,
worn features, the sad look of habitual hopeless
pain, the untimely grey hairs and aged
appearance, struck into the betrayer's soul like
so many burning daggers tipped with poison.
He remembered his friend as he had last seen
him in the beauty and vigour of early manhood,
happy, hopeful, full of intellect and
life, and glowing with generous feeling, and
the sharp contrast revealed to him, in one
flash, the wickedness of his deed. There
sat the friend who had loved and trusted
him marred, crushed and broken by his
own iniquity.

He longed for the massive pillars to crumble
to ruins, and the high stone roof to crash in
and hide him from that terrible gaze, the
more terrible because so gentle ; he wished
the solid pavement to yawn and swallow him
up. A burning pain was stabbing him in
the breast, the clusters of lights danced
madly among the shadows before him, the
great white sea of human faces surged in
heaving billows in his sight, and his tongue
clove to the roof of his mouth when he tried
to speak.

Long as it seemed to those two awestruck
gazers, it was in reality but a few seconds
before the dean averted his gaze by a strong
effort, and spoke.

'' I am not well," he said quietly ; and,
turning, he descended the pulpit and vanished
among the shadows, while a canon present
said a final prayer and gave the blessing.

From the comments of the congregation as
they streamed out beneath the avenue of
lindens, Everard gathered that it was not
the first time the dean had been taken ill

while preaching, the excitement of which
appeared to be too much for his physical
strength.

He lingered about the cathedral precincts
in the pleasant summer dusk, through which
a few pale stars were gleaming softly, and
listened to the conversation around him,
gazing wistfully at the Deanery, under a
strong impulse to enter it. He contented
himself, however, with joining a little group
of working men, who, after an interval, went
to the house and inquired for the health of
the popular preacher, and who were told that
the dean had recovered from the spasmodic
seizure to which he was subject, and was now
resting.

A clergyman had passed out of the cathedral
at Everard's side, with rather a strange
smile on his face, and had observed to a lady
who was with him, " How did you like the
play ? "

What do you mean ? " she returned, with
an indignant accent.

Well, did you ever see a better actor than

the Anglican Chrysostom ? " he continued,
with a sarcastic accent, which caused her
to accuse him of professional jealousy.

This man had heard the last dying words
of Alma Judkins a few hours before.

Everard was so shaken by what he experienced
in the cathedral, that he could not
return to his hotel, where his dinner was
awaiting him, but walked rapidly through
the dim streets, and climbed the hill to
breathe the free, fresh air of the wide
downs, whence he saw the city, starred
with fire-points, lying like a dropped
and dimmed constellation in the valley beneath.


There he thought much, walking swiftly
beneath the clear, quiet sky, pale in the June
twilight, and gleaming with languid stars,
until something of the holy calm of Nature
had entered his breast, and he returned,
quieted, yet full of deeply stirred feelings,
to the George Inn.

Then he took a pen, and wrote as
follows : —

Dear Cyril,

I need not tell you that I was in
the cathedral to-night, since I saw with what
pain you recognized me. You possess the
great secret of eloquence earnestness and
genuine feeling, and your sermon revealed tome
how terribly you have suffered. You
will not be surprised to hear that I know all,
I did not suspect it until that poor girl swore
against me in the witness-box, when the
whole truth flashed upon me, and every little
incident connected with that sad affair became
clear and comprehensible. That was the
saddest moment in my life, far more bitter
than the moment of my conviction or that of
my severe sentence. The man never lived
who was dearer to me than you, and I revered
you as a man reveres his own conscience. I
thought then that there could be no suffering
to equal mine, but to-night I learned from
your own lips, my poor Cyril, that there is
a deeper anguish still-an anguish that you
have borne secretly for eighteen mortal years
beneath a semblance of outward prosperity.

How shall I comfort you ? If my forgiveness
can avail anything, it is yours-fully and
freely. Remorse, as you said to-night, is
wholly poisonous ; it is futile to lament the
returning past. Dear Cyril, let us manfully
face the consequences, and cease bewailing
what cannot be mended. Much peace
and usefulness, yes, and much happiness,
may yet be yours. I have suffered not only
the penalty, but an exceeding penalty for that
tragic moment in the wood — against my will,
it is true ; but now I ask you, who believe
in vicarious sacrifice, to take those eighteen
years as a free gift, and remember that, as
far as this life is concerned, that poor fellow's
death has been amply atoned for. I see that
you are struggling with yourself to confess
and make atonement before the world, but
the time has gone by for that, and it could
avail nothing now. Lilian has always been
convinced of my innocence, and nearly all
others to whom my good name was dear are
gone. I have lived though the obloquy as
far as the world is concerned ; the revelation

of the truth could only bring sorrow unspeakable
to many, and no help to me. Besides,
you have unusual gifts ; you have acquired a
position and a character which give you
singular power over men ; you ought not to
trifle with these. If I am to be useful to
my fellow-creatures it must be in quite other
ways. But you, with your remarkable gifts
and the great position you have achieved,
have also incurred a great responsibility, and
the very failings and faults which have
caused such pain have led you through such
unusual paths of spiritual experience as may
give you unusual power in dealing with the
sickness of men's souls. You have told menthe
terrors of remorse ; tell them now the
peace of repentance, the joy of forgiveness.
If you need a penance, take that of silence On
that one sad subject. Let that lie between
you and me as a bond of friendship, and let
it be heard in the ears of men no more ; and
let us meet again on the old pleasant footing.
I have seen and spoken with your son, and
heard his beautiful voice, and I am glad that

lie bears our name. May Heaven's blessing
and peace be yours for ever !
Your friend,

Henry Everard."

It was not until the following morning
that the dean received this letter, along with
many others, at breakfast.

Physical pain had mercifully come to his
relief in the moment of extreme agony in the
cathedral, and so benumbed and clouded his
mental faculties. It had further obliged him
to use a prescription of his physician's intended
for such seizures, and of an anaesthetic
nature, so that he had passed the night inartificial
slumber, if that could be called
slumber which was animated by a continual
torturing consciousness of the dreaded face
he had seen in the cathedral, and an unspeakable
terror of some impending descent
into yet greater misery.

Yet he awoke in the morning so permeated
with this dread consciousness that he had
not to face the shock of emerging from the

YOL. lie I

balm of oblivion to a new and unfamiliar
grief, the shock that greets us on the threshold
of a new day with such a numbing
power in the beginning of a fresh sorrow
Of course, he had contemplated the possibility
of such a meeting as that of the previous
evening, but he had no idea it was so near,
since Lilian bad long ceased to give him
any intelligence of Everard, and also, with
his characteristic unreason, he hoped something
might in the mean time turn up.
Everard's death was one of these bright
possibilities.

He did not recognize the handwriting,
changed as it was by long disuse and the
stiffening of the joints resulting from habitual
hard labour, and ran rapidly through the
pile of letters, taking the known correspondents
first. It was only when he had
opened the envelope, and read the familiar
commencement of " Dear Cyril," that the
writing struck a chord in his memory, and
he turned with a sick dread to the sig-nature.

Marion saw him turn livid, and then,

when he glanced rapidly over the contents,
flush a deep red. Then he laid the letter
aside, and went on quietly with his breakfast,
joining, in his accustomed manner, in the
household chat ; but he ate little, which
Marion attributed to his recent seizure and
the anodyne he had taken.

Immediately after breakfast he went to his
study, giving orders to Benson, as he frequently
did, that he was on no account to be
disturbed till luncheon, at which meal he
appeared as usual.

Marion observed, and remembered afterwards,
that he was extremely pale and very
quiet, only addressing herself and her brother
occasionally, and then with unusual gentleness.
He was always gentle to them, for he
was a most tender father, passionately fond of
his children, and having the art, by virtue of
his winning manner and personal charm, to
keep them in absolute discipline while indulging
them to the utmost, so that, without
ever using a harsh word to them, his will was
their law, and they obeyed him without knowing

it ; but to-day his gentleness amounted to
tenderness, and his voice and glances, when
he spoke to them, were like a caress.

Well, Marry," he said, breaking into a
conversation between the children and their
tutor and governess, which he had evidently
not heard, "what do you say to running
down to Portsmouth to your Uncle Keppel's
with Everard for a few days ? "

*' Nothing, papa," she replied, with her
pretty spoilt air.

"Would you not like to go, dear?" he
asked. " The sea is charming just now, and
all the naval gaieties are in full swing. The
new ironclad is waiting for you to inspect
and help launch her, and your cousins
are all at home, and Everard would enjoy
the military bands and the bathing ; eh,
laddie ? "

Well, I suppose it will be a fair time to
go ; but how can you get away ? " said Marion,
when her father replied that he did not intend
to accompany them.

Then, we don't want to go," she returned

; and Everard endorsed her words
heartily.

You don't get tired of your old father ? "
he asked, his eyes clouding and his voice
quivering a little.

'' There never was such a daddy-sick pair,"
laughed Miss Mackenzie.

But you cannot always be tied on to the
old father," said the dean, pinching Marion's
soft cheek. " Come now, suppose you pack
up your smartest bonnets and frocks, and
Everard's violin, and run down this afternoon.
Your Aunt Keppel will be at the station to
meet you at six."

'-' To-day ? Oh, papa ! what can possess
you ? " cried Marion.

Oh, not till Monday ! " pleaded Everard.
I am to take a solo tomorrow afternoon."

Never mind the solo, lad," said his father,
looking wistfully on the boy's sightless face.
Dr. Rydal will recover from the shock ; a
little adversity will do him good, autocrat
that he is. You will go, darlings, by the
4.30 train. And if the bonnets and frocks are

not smart 'enough for fashionable Southey,
you can get what you want there. Here is a
cheque, Marry. And there, Everard, is a
sovereign for you to buy toffee with. Herr
Obermann is tired of his unmanageable pupil,
and will be glad of a holiday to rummage
over old parchments with Canon Drake ; "
and the dean rose from the table with a look
that said that the business was concluded,
and strolled languidly into the garden,
Everard's hand in his.

Miss Mackenzie," said Marion, remaining
behind a minute, " there is something unusual
about papa to-day. Do you think I ought to
leave him ? He ate nothing ; he looks ill."

He is always languid and weak after one
of his attacks. Marry. The great thing is not
to worry him, and, of course, he has a great
deal on his mind now. Perhaps, until the
bishopric business is quite decided, he would
rather have you out of the way."

Miss Mackenzie's words were reasonable,
and Marion felt that she must abide by them,
and yet she could not conquer the vague disquiet

she felt on her father's account. She
followed him into the old-fashioned, recalled
garden with a solicitude hitherto unknown
in her spoilt-child existence, and
watched him narrowly.

You are becoming a perfect ogre, daddy,
hustling us off in this despotic manner ; now,
isn't he, Everard ?" she said, joining them.

*' A regular tyrant," laughed the boy.
But, I say, why can't you come with us,
papa ? It is on your v/ay to Osborne."

Of course it is ; how delightful ! " added
Marion.

I am not going to Osborne," replied the
dean.

Not going to vinci at Osborne to-night ?"
exclaimed the children, who knew that a
royal invitation is also a command. " Why,
what will the Queen say ? Will she send
you to the Tower ? " asked Everard, his mind
filled with visions of scaffolds and axes.

Never mind the Queen," said the dean,
sitting down on a garden seat and placing
the boy between his knees, and passing his

arm round the girl with a grave and preoccupied
air, which surprised his daughter,
whom he was wont perpetually to tease and
banter in a way that she thought delightful.
Neither of them spoke for a few minutes, and
then the dean asked the children if they were
happy, and they replied heartily in the
affirmative, adding that they were always
happy with him, and thought all pleasures
dull without him.

I have tried to make you happy," he said,
in his rich, pathetic tones; "I have wished
so much to give you a happy youth to look
back upon. My own youth was very, very
happy, and I have always been so thankful
for it ; it is a possession for a whole lifetime,
in spite of the sorrow with which the world
is filled, and which we must all plunge into
sooner or later. Your father is a sinful man,
dear children, but he has tried to be good to
you — that has been his greatest earthly aim.
And you have been dutiful and affectionate.
I am a successful man, and have been able to
give you a pleasant home, but who can say

if it may last ? Trouble may come — we maybe
parted. "Well, dears, if that time comes,
think gently of the father who, whatever his
faults were, earnestly sought his children's
happiness."

The children protested with half frightened
affection ; but he scarcely heeded them, and,
gently unwinding their clasping hands, withdrew,
unable to speak for tears, and,' waving
them off with a gesture of command, went
back to his study.

Oh, Marry ! " cried Everard, " something
dreadful has happened. Perhaps the Queen
is angry. What can it be ? "

Marion comforted him with all the wisdom
of her sixteen years, saying that there was
probably some hitch about the bishopric, and
this had saddened their father.

He took them to the station and saw them
off, arranging all he could for their comfort
and security, and embraced them on the
public platform with unusual tenderness,
apparently oblivious of all the bustle and
noise going on around him. He put a basket

of fruit into their hands to refresh them on
the road when they were in the carriage,
and then stood on the step and kissed and
blessed them solemnly once more, and, when
the train finally moved off, stood wistfully
gazing until the last flutter of Marion's handkerchief
was invisible in the distance.

All her life Marion remembered his yearning
gaze and his pale, sad face, as he stood
without a trace of his usual playful animation
when in their presence, a solitary black figure,
watching them with his hand shading his
eyes, until the distance had swallowed them
up.

Can you see him still ? " asked the blind
boy.

Not now ; he is lost," replied Marion ; and
she burst into tears under the pressure of an
indefinable sadness.

CHAPTER Y.

EvERARD slept like an infant after writing
his letter, and rose full of eager hope and
trembling anticipation on the morrow, remembering
that the day had at last dawned
when he was to meet Lilian once more.

He might have seen her many times during
his imprisonment, but he could not endure
that she should submit to the restraints necessarily
imposed on convicts' visitors, or that
she should see him in his humiliation, and
had thus declined her offered visits. He
could not even bear to go to her straight
from prison ; he felt that some days at least
were necessary to carry off the prison air
and take away the contamination of those
hated walls. He looked in a glass, and sighed
deeply, thinking that he saw plainly written

all over him, " ticket-of-leave man." As foi
his hands, which he had treated with unguents
and cosmetics, and kept night and day in
gloves, he looked at them in despair. The
flattened finger-tips, broken and discoloured
nails, distorted joints, and horn-hardened
palms were beyond redemption. It seemed
to his sensitive fancy that all the world must
know as well as he that his peculiar gait was
the result of the irons he had worn after his
brief escape, and the sick thought came to
him that his intellect must be as much marred
as his body. He felt utterly ruined.

He lingered about Bel minster till the afternoon,
secretly cherishing a hope that Cyril
might send some letter or message to the
George for him ; but nothing came, and he
took his seat in the train with a disappointed
heart.

A clergyman, in a round felt hat with a
rosette and the longest of coats, was just
stepping out of the down train as Everard
was stepping in. They came face to face,
and Everard stepped back to allow the other

to pass, thus gaining a full and prolonged
view of this features, while the clergyman
passed gravely on, carelessly scanning
Everard's face without a gleam of recognition
in his own. But Everard knew him at once.
It was his brother George.

Everard got in, the doors banged, the
train moved off, and he found that his
carriage was shared by an elderly man with
a clever, keen face, which seemed strangely
familiar to him, though he could not identify
it, search his memory as he would. The old
gentleman apparently had the same degree
of memory for Everard, since, after his first
searching glance at him when he entered the
carriage, he kept giving him furtive and
puzzled looks over his papers. Presently
the papers of both gentlemen were laid aside,
and the stranger moved over to the corner
seat opposite Everard, evidently prepared fora
friendly chat, and made some remark on
the line over which they were passing. His
voice sent a strange tremor through Everard's
too-sensitive nerves, and, after a brief interchange

of commonplace, he told his vis-a-vis
that his face and voice were familiar to him,
but that he was unable to recall his name.

You are associated in my mind with
something of a distressing nature," he added.

I was just about to observe the same with
regard to you," replied his new-found acquaintance,
" save that you are associated
with nothing distressing to me. To tell the
truth, my features are associated with distressing
circumstances in a great many people's
minds," he added, laughing. " My name is
Manby, Sir William Manby," he explained,
with the air of one uttering a rich joke.

I now remember you perfectly," returned
Everard, quietly, " though I cannot claim
the honour of your acquaintance. " My name
is Everard, Henry Oswald Everard, and
when 1 last saw you, you sentenced me to
twenty years penal servitude for a crime
which I never committed."

"Good Grod!" exclaimed the judge, starting
back with momentary dismay, but quickly
recovering himself, and putting up his gold-rammed

eye-glasses and closely scrutinizing
him. " Henry Everard, to be sure ! Yes,
yes, I remember the case perfectly. The jury
were unanimous, the evidence clear ; " and
the judge thought within himself that to be
alone in a railway carriage with a man one
has given twenty years for a manslaughter
one believes to be murder, is an awkward
thing.

The evidence was indeed clear," said
Everard, " but it was misleading, nevertheless,
and there was a terrible miscarriage of
justice."

The quiet air with which he spoke, and the
look of his careworn face, impressed the
judge. He could not help giving some
credence to his words.

If you were indeed not guilty. Dr.
Everard," he said, after looking thoughtfully
at him for some moments, " there must have
been some very hard swearing."

There was," replied Everard. " There
was perjury on the part of one witness."

Its motive ? "

'' To shield the real culprit."

The law gives you a remedy if you can
but prove the perjury," said the judge.

I do not wish to prosecute," replied
Everard. " Besides, what court can give me
back those years of imprisonment ? "

How many did you serve ? "

Eighteen."

'* Eighteen years," returned the judge, his
thoughts running back through that period
of time, and taking count of the things that
had occurred and the changes that had been
wrought in it ; " eighteen years ! And you
were then a young man."

Everard smiled sadly at the contrast these
words implied.

Then, you are only recently enlarged ? "
Sir William added.

Last Monday. I have a ticket-of-leave."

The judge looked at the broken and prematurely
aged man with an inward shudder.
He thought of the long line of malefactors he
had sentenced, not only to imprisonment, but
even to death, and wondered if he could have

pronounced those sentences if he had been
doomed to see them carried out.

'' I well remember the pain with which I
passed your sentence," he said. " A judge
need have a heart of iron and nerves of steel.
But the evidence was so clear."

You could do no otherwise. The jury
found me guilty, and I could not clear
myself."

"Eighteen years," continued the judge, ina
voice which had a quiver in it. " I am an
old man. Dr. Everard, an old man, and it
cannot be many years at the latest before I
must stand at the bar of a justice that cannot
miscarry, but if I thought that I had condemned
a fellow-creature unjustly to eighteen
years imprisonment with hard labour "

"Do not think it, dear sir," interrupted
Everard, trying to soothe the rising agitation
in the old man's mind ; " the injustice cannot
be laid to your charge. No human tribunal
can, be infallible ; but, as you say, there is a
Judge who cannot err, and when you and I
are confronted at that bar, your verdict upon

VOL. lU. K

me will be reversed without blame to jour-self."


"I trust so, I trust so' replied the old
man ; " and, in the mean time, I hope that
you bear me no ill-will."

Heaven forbid, whose instrument you
are ! " returned Everard, taking and warmly
pressing the hand the judge offered him.

'' I shall desire your further acquaintance,
sir," said the old gentleman, when the train
steamed into the Oldport station ; " if not
now, in a better world than this."

And they parted, Everard leaving the
carriage, and standing with a throbbing
heart on the platform, while his portmanteau
was placed on a fly, and thinking how great
was the contrast between his manner of
leaving that station and returning to it. He
left it in the keen wintry fog, with handcuffed
wrists, in charge of constables, and returned
shaking hands with his judge in the warm
June sunshine.

It was strange to see the little well-known
town basking in the summer heat, and filled

with the familiar, homely stir of the market-day,
just as it had done all those years
ago, and he looked about at the houses and
shops, with their friendly air of recognition,
to see if there were any faces he knew.
There stood the town hall, the earliest
scene of his terrible humiliation, with its
familiar colonnade and balcony, its clock
striking four in the old homelike tones, and
the gilt figures on its dial burning in the
bright sunbeams. The stolid policemen were
standing in the square in front of it, as they
had done in the days of his trial. He recognized
one, a grey-headed man in the stripes
and dress of a sergeant, as the middle-aged
constable who had conducted him to the
magisterial presence, and wondered if the
man remembered him.

The carriage seemed at the same time to
crawl and to fly in the medley of feelings
which urged him onwards and backwards.
Would they never get out of Oldport ? The
streets were cumbered with carriers' carts and
waggons ; droves of pigs and bewildered

cattle; dense-looking farmers, shabbily dressed,
but concealing a fund of shrewd sense beneath
their stolid countenances, and having well-lined
pocket-books in their queer old coat-pockets
; and denser-looking labourers, whose
heavy air of stupidity was half assumed and
half on the surface.

Smart new suburbs had put forth a pert
growth in those eighteen years, and joined
the little town to its quiet village neighbour,
Chalkburne, the solid grey tower of which
looked down as usual from its centuries of
grey calm on the fitful stir and fret around
it, and the fevered hopes and fears that must
end at last in the quiet green mounds at its
feet. And now at last the hill beyond Chalk-burnt
was climbed ; they were on the white
chalk road that wound along by the downs.
There were the woods of Swaynestone in the
distance, and beyond them the unseen tower
^of Malbourne Church, and beneath that the
Rectory, with its long-buried treasure of love
and hope and trust.

The little bays along the coast shone in

azure calm, and showed the silver gleam of a
sail here and there ; the woods spread their
fresh green domes towards the sea ; the scent
of mown grass filled the air, and the brown-armed
haymakers were busy in the meadows.
It was all so familiar, and yet so strange to
his prison-worn eyes.

Now they passed Swaynestone, where Sir
Lionel reigned no more, having been gathered
to his fathers ; and there, on the left, stood
the sham Greek Temple, its colonnade gleaming
white in the sunlight, and its architrave
sharply outlined against the fatal green
coppice cresting the hill behind it. Everard
could not see this spot, the source of so much
misery, without a shudder, nor could the
tenderer associations of his walk there with
Lilian efface the horror of it from his mind.

And now that too was left behind, and
there were only a few fields between him and
Malbourne, and his pulses throbbed. All
these pleasant home scenes were the same as
in the old times, only the eyes which looked
upon them were changed. Not a homestead

or cottage was removed ; there were no new
buildings. The workshops of the wheelwright
were now in sight. He could see a
man in a paper cap hammering in its dark
interior ; then the cottage, with its wicket
opening on to the road, and its two lime-trees
arching over the path in front of the
porch ; then the yard, cumbered with a litter
of timber and broken-down waggons, the
scene of endless games with Cyril and the
wheelwright's boys ; and then the corner was
turned, and the well-known village street,
with the square, grey tower at the end, lay
before him.

He stopped at the Sun, to leave his portmanteau.
He felt that he could not go on ;
a sudden horror overwhelmed him at the
sight of the home he had left so different
a being, and all the degradation and suffering
of those eighteen years seemed to rise up and
stand between him and the woman for whom
he had dreamed so different a destiny. He
had pictured this moment so often in the
solitude of his cell, and dwelt with such

rapture upon his reunion with Lilian as the
end of all that bitter misery, that he had not
thought of the terrible change time and
suffering had wrought in him till now, when
it rushed in upon him like a flood.

Love never grows old ; the lover is always
the same within, and Everard's mental pictures
of Lilian and himself always portrayed them
both in the flower of youth, and were filled
with youth's tender glamour. Perhaps he
even thought unconsciously that their meeting
would efface the ravages of those weary
years from his life, with all that was sorrowful
and distressing.

And now he stood within sight of the roof
that sheltered her, face to face with the
sorrowful fact that youth had vanished forever,
and that the best part of the life they
should have spent together was gone beyond
recall. Only the fragments of life remained
now — only the wrecks and floating spars of
his own ship of life and of Lilian's.

He now remembered that she too must have
changed. Her youth was also gone; incredible

as it appeared, lie too had suffered and borne
the weight of sorrow-laden years. What if
they should not be able to recognize each
other ? What if each found a stranger in the
place of the beloved ? Would not their meeting
be too severe a test for human constancy ?

Shaken by these half-morbid thoughts, the
broken man entered the little hostelry, and,
taking pen and ink, wrote to apprise Lilian
of his arrival, and to appoint an hour for
calling at the Rectory; for he felt that he
could not go there unexpectedly, and drop in
like a chance visitor, with the possibility of
seeing her for the first time in public. He
wished also to warn her that she must not
expect to see the Henry of old days again,
but only the shattered wreck of a man who
had long left youth and hope behind.

Having despatched the note, he sat down
and waited in the little parlour assigned him,
in a state of tense excitement, which made
the slightest sound, the ticking of a clock,
the sound of wheel or hoof on the road,
unbearable.

At last he sprang up and passed through
the open French window into the old-fashioned
cottage garden, where stood a rude summerhouse,
with a table and wooden settles, in
which the village parliament was often held
on summer evenings. A side-window of the
bar gave upon the garden, and, pacing restlessly
up and down the flagged path, Everard
heard through the casement, which stood
open to the summer air, the familiar twang
of the local dialect borne by rustic voices
upon his ear.

He glanced in as he passed, and recognized
a face or two through all the mists and shadows
of those years. George Straun, the burly
blacksmith, stood as sturdy as ever, though
his hair was now well powdered by the hand
of Time. He recognized Stevens, the clerk,
the years having altered his outward man
but little, though they had made him more
garrulous and opinionated than ever.

Ay, Jarge Straun," he was saying,
there's a vine weight of grass hereabouts,
zure-/?/. I don't mind a heavier crop as I

knows on this twenty year. Athout 'twas
the year Ben Lee come by's death."

I minds that there crop," returned William
Grove, whom Everard had not recognized —
well I minds 'un. That there spring there
was a power o' train come down."

And a vine summer as ever 1 zee," added
Stevens, *' and the graves as easy to dig as
easy ; the sile entirely crumbed up wi' the
drought, a did. And the grass was well
saved. Granter, 'ee said as how 'ee didn't
mind modern dree or your summers like he
all's life, Granter didn't. That was the
summer ater Dr. Everard done for poor Ben
Lee — ay, that 'twas."

Ah ! " growled the blacksmith, withdrawing
his broad face from the eclipse of his
pewter pot, and passing his hand slowly over
his mouth, " he never done that. Dr. Everard
didn't."

Zo you says, Jarge Straun. And say
it you med till you was black i' the vance,
but you wouldn't vetch 'un out o' jail," retorted
Stevens, resuming a battle that had

raged incessantly for the last eighteen years
between the village worthies, whom the
question had split into two unequal factions.

I seen 'un myself," continued Straun,
leader of the not-guilty faction, " a-going
down street in the full daylight. And he
hadn't no grey clues on. 'S coat was so black
as my hat. Well I minds 'un ! Passed the
time o' day, he did, and looked as pleased
as Punch. He never done vur Ben Lee,
bless ye ! "

You be terrible clever, Jarge Straun ; but
you never kep' 'un out o' jail wi' all yer
cleverness," said Stevens. " You never seen
no black coat that afternoon, 'tliout 'twas
yer own. Why, Lard love ye, 1 seen 'un
myself, as I said adore the justices. He
come out o' Rectory garden, and went up
yield wi' 's grey closes on. He couldn't 'a
been in two places at a time, nor he couldn't
'a wore two coats at a time, ye godhead. I
seen 'un 's plain as plums, I tell 'ee. I passes
'un the time o' day, and he never seemed to
hear and never said notion. Yur why ?

He was a-going out a breaking' the Ten
Commandments, a murdering' o' poor Ben
Lee."

He never done it," reiterated the blacksmith,
stolidly.

"Not he didn't," added William Grove.
He seen my little maid and give her a
penny, and sleeve a got 'un now."

And he seen Granter at vive o'clock,
when them maids swore they seen him come
home in 's grey closes," added Hale, the
wheelwright. "And he last Granter if he'd
a years the bell-team go by, he did. And
Granter he up and says, ' I ain't a years 'un
go by since dinner-time, not as I knows on,
I ain't,' he says, says Granter. And Dr.
Everard, he says a power o' things to Granter
many a time Granter have a said it in this
yer Sun Inn — a power o' things Dr. Everard
said, and a power o' things Granter said to
he. And Dr. Everard, he outs wi' a shil'n'
and gives it to Granter. And he keeps that
there shil'n' to 's dying day, Granter does.
And there ain't a man in this yer bar but

have seen that ar shil'ii' and a-liandled 'un,"
he concluded, triumphantly looking round
with the sense of having finally clinched his
argument.

Ay, William Hale," returned Stevens,
sarcastically, '^ you've got a power o' words
inside o' ye, when zo be as you can zim to
bring 'em out. But Sir Ingram, he seen 'un
a-runnin' across that ar yield just adore vive.
Ay, it's a likely thing as Sir Ingram
shouldn't know if he seen a man or a mouse.
The likes o' he don't goo a swearing' they
seen what they never seen. Granter — I
won't say nothing' agen he — he'd a powerful
mind, had Granter, but. Lard love ye, what's
a powerful mind agen a education like Sir
Ingram's ? Gleaner, he'd a giv' his mind to
most things, but he hadn't had no book-taming,
zo to say, hadn't Granter. He
could count, and he could read print wi'
leaving' out the big words, zo well as any
man I knows on, but 's education was
effective ; it didn't come up to Sir Ingram's
college scholarding, it didn't. Naw, naw."

A pause ensued, the Utile company feeling
crushed by the weight of Stevens's long
words, a species of powerful artillery that he
only brought to bear on his adversary when
hard pressed. Then Tom Hale, who sometime
ere this had beaten his sword into a
wheelwright's tools, took up his parable on
this wise :

He never done it. Dr. Everard didn't."

If he never done it, who did ? " inquired
the landlord, pertinently.

Darn it all ! " said William Grove, driving
his hand through his bushy hair in dire perplexity,
and repeating the phrase he had used
any time these eighteen years, " somebody
done it. Why, I wound the body myself!
Well I minds it. 'Twas a frosty night, and
I wound 'un all stiff and stark. Nobody
can't say nothing' agen that, when I seen 'un
wi' my own eyes. And I run into Master
Hale's, as was keeping' up New Year's Eve
wi' a party, and I says, and you years
me plain enough, ' Lord 'a massy on us ! ' I
says, says I, ' they ben and done vur poor

Ben Lee ! ' I zajs ; and Granter, he years
me.

Ay, and Granter he ups and says, says
he, ' You med all mark my words he says,
somebody's hare to swing fur this yer
Them was Granter's words," said the wheelwright,
looking round with great solemnity.

Somebody done it," continued Stevens,
with authority, " and if 'wasn't Dr. Everard,
who was it as done it ? Athout 'twas Mr.
Maitland himself," he added, with intense
sarcasm, " or maybe Mr. Cyril. Somebody
done it, that's as plain as plums."

He never done it," repeated the sturdy
blacksmith, finishing his ale and stamping
off homewards with a sullen " Good night "
to all.

There was Alma Lee," continued the
landlord, who never liked a good argument
conducing to the dryness of the inner man
to drop, " she snowed who done it. And
she seared dead agen the doctor, she did."

And she med swear," commented William
Grove ; " she was a bad 'un. Them there

stuck-up gals isn't never up to no good.
Mr. Maitland, and they up Eectory, they had
the sp'iHn' o' she."

Ay ! " growled the wheelwright ; " poor
Charlie Judkins ! What he took out to
'Merrily wi' 'un wasn't no account, nohow."

Abaddish cargo 'twas," added Tom Hale ;
and the whole company joined in condemning
the unfortunate girl with the wholesale condemnation
dealt out by men to the woman
who makes the smallest slip on the slippery
path of right.

Just then the dear old familiar voice of the
church clock told the hour, sending a quiver
through Everard i's frame with every stroke
of its mellow bell ; and, passing through the
garden gate into the village street, he bent
his steps towards the Rectory.

CHAPTER VI.

Every feature of the well-remembered scene
was the same, only the faces of the people
were altered. Men were working in their
little gardens, women standing at wicket
gates with babies in their arms, children
playing in the dusty road. The forge was
all aglow, its furnace showing lurid red in
contrast with the evening sunbeams. Straun's
eldest son, a stout fellow over thirty, was
dealing his ringing blows upon the anvil, in
the cheery familiar rhythm of his craft.

The little band of children who always
cluster about a forge were sporting round
it, and turned to stare at the stranger. A
tiny creature tottered away from its child-nurse,
and stood open-armed in Everard's
path, greeting him with a joyous gurgle.
He patted the flaxen head, and passed on

VOL. in. L

with a kind word. He was glad to see
children run to him with confidence.

Every step on the familiar path made his
heart beat more wildly. Something was
rising chokingly. in his throat, so that he was
afraid to trust himself further on, and paused,
leaning against the churchyard wall, behind
which he could see the inscription on
Granter's tombstone, and imagined that he
saw female figures emerging from the Rectory
gate or strolling under the trees, and asked
himself, " Is it she ? "

It was no fancy. A tangible, solid woman's
form was indeed pacing, heavily pacing, the
gravel drive ; the form was stout, the hair
iron-grey, the gait clumsy. A sick fear took
him, and he remembered that Lilian was five
and twenty eighteen long years ago. The
lady opened the gate and issued forth, her
features showing distinctly in the rich sunlight.
They were heavy, commonplace, and
quietly contented, and he did not recognize
the once-pretty Miss Garrett of Northover,
now the mother of half a dozen stout lads.

He recovered from this miserable, nervous
weakness, and walked stoutly on, growing
paler as lie approached the beloved house. It
was a delicious evening. The air was still
and pure, and balmy with the scent of flowers
and hay ; the long sunbeams touched the
woods and downs with tender glory ; the
swallows were darting round the tower,
whose grey face was gilded by the western
glow, and glancing across the pure, pale sky,
their bodies gleaming with gold, like the
doves of Scripture, " whose feathers are like
gold ; " down in the thickets the thrushes and
blackbirds were pouring out their evening
lay ; and a pair of larks were maddening each
other with the rival raptures of their song
overhead.

He passed the bit of green on which
Lennie and Dickie Stevens were fighting on
the winter afternoon when he left it, handcuffed
and amazed. He opened the gate and
entered. There was the laburnum planted
on the birthday, a great tree now ; down
there they used to play at Robinson Crusoe.

The great pear-tree was still standing from
which Cyril fell that far-off autumn day ; he
could even now see the boy lying white and
still on the grass, hear Lilian's cry of terror,
and recall the sick pang with which he
thought he might be killed.

He reached the door, and a mist came
before his eyes, whirling so that he could
not see the bell-handle for a few seconds,
and had to grope for it. The bell echoed
through a silent house ; he heard footsteps
coming along the well-known corridor and
through the hall; the door opened, and
disclosed the blooming face of a parlour-maid,
who regarded him without interest.

'-' Is Miss Maitland at home ? " he asked, ina
voice from which every vestige of tone had
vanished.

Yes, sir. What name, if you please ? "

*' Dr. Everard," he faltered huskily, and a
terror came over him, and made him think
that he should have to turn back, unable to
face the moment.

The maid, however, whisked airily on to

the drawing-room door, which she opened,
pronouncing his name with metallic clearness.


In the well-known room all seemed dark
after the bright external sunshine. The
Venetians were closed against the western
glow, and the deep gloom was emphasized
here and there by a long rod of golden light
falling through the chinks. He stood irresolute
just within the door. A figure rose from
the far end, and he heard, in Lilian's pure and
silvery tones, one cry of " Henry ! " as she
moved towards him.

For a space he seemed both blind and deaf,
and then all the painful agitation fell away
from him, the sick yearning of the long
years was stilled, the nervous weakness gone.
He was healed and calmed, himself once
more ; for it was indeed Lilian who stood
before him — the same, same Lilian, with the
sweetest soul that ever looked from clear eyes
gazing up into his own, the Lilian of his
young love, the Lilian of his long, pining
prison-dreams.

Those first few moments were too tense for
memory ; neither of the re-united lovers was
ever able to recall anything but a dreamlike
sense of happiness from them ; each spoke,
but neither remembered what was said. The
first moment of distinct daylight consciousness
was when they found themselves sitting
hand-in-hand on the coach which had been
Mrs. Maitland's through so many years of
weakness, silent and happy and perfectly
calm.

Everard was wholly pervaded by a sense of
Lilian's pure and wholesome presence ; he
was soothed and blessed by it, as one is by
the beauty of some fresh and fair summer
evening, when the whole earth is bathed in
the purity of soft and cloudless light, and the
stainless air is stilled as if to listen to the
voices of the sea and the forest and the
bridal songs of many birds. Such had
always been the effect of her presence. It
had ever brought him renewed and fresh
strength, together with the calm of perfect
happiness ; but now, after the long abstinence,

the eighteen years' fast, the effect was
tenfold.

They sat a long time thus, forgetful of
everything but the divine rapture of that
long-desired moment, forgetful of all the
wrong and misery, the sin and degradation
and loss of the weary years that had parted
them, forgetful of every creature but each
other ; and then Lilian began to speak of
those he had loved, and at last rose from
the pleasant shadows and went to the bay
window.

"It is dark," she said, in the beloved
remembered voice ; " we will have light."

And in a moment she had drawn up the
rattling Venetian blind, and the full blaze of
evening sunshine poured in upon her. It
crowned her rich hair with new glory, it fell
like a benediction upon her calm brow and
finely curved lips, it clothed her form with a
robe of radiance, as she stood erect and well-poised
in the perfection of grace that is only
possible to a form of beautiful proportions, her
head slightly thrown back, her glance raised

to the glowing sky, and one arm, from which
the lace fell backwards, extended in the act
of drawing the cord. She stood in the
magic glow transfigured, exalted by the deep
emotion of the moment, and wearing, in
Everard's eyes, a brighter glory than that of
youth.

There had ever been in LiHan an enduring
charm over which years could have no power
a something so superior to beauty that it
made people forget to ask if that divine gift
were hers, and which also made it impossible
to think of age or youth in connection with
her. Though it was well known that the
dean was her twin-brother, no one ever
dreamed of attributing his three and forty
years to her ; nor did any one commit the
.mistake of treating her as a girl. She did
not grow old or fade ; she simply developed
in so harmonious a manner that each year
of her life seemed the year of culminating
prime.

A minute and microscopic examination of
her features might have enabled a physiologist

to assign her the true tale of her years ;
there might have been grey hairs among
the brown, soft waves, but no one sought
them, and no one saw them. Health and
exercise had preserved the fair proportions
of her form ; no evil thought had stamped
its impress on the pure outline of her
features ; no fretting, no repressed and baffled
faculties had left their wearing marks on her
beautiful face.

Good women age slowly, as great painters
discovered when painting bereaved Madonnas.
Women whose lives are full and whose
faculties are fully employed also age slowly.
Lilian's life had by no means been sterile.
She had had her mother, whose life her cares
had prolonged, to nurse ; her young brother
and sister to bring up ; her father and her
home to care for ; the whole village, and all
the invalids and ne'er-dwells for miles
round, to cherish and advise and heal.

With an intellect less showy, but stronger
and steadier than the dean's, she had given
him all that was best and most enduring in

his writings ; no work of bis had ever been
passed through the press without the benefit
of her revision ; there were few things he had
ever done without her advice, in spite of the
estrangement that had arisen between them
since the date of their common sorrow. She
had been with him in his bereavements, and
had tended the death-beds of his children
and his wife ; and she had been a mother to
Marion and the bb'nd Everard, who both loved
her next to their father.

And, deep as was the sorrow which had
made her youth a loneliness, and blighted
Everard's hopes and her own in this long and
terrible punishment, it was the kind of sorrow
that purifies and elevates : it was not like the
physical suffering, the degradation, and the
wearing sense of wrong which Everard endured
; it could not crush her energies, blunt
her faculties, or stifle her intellect. She had
not been obliged to repress the love so cruelly
blighted ; she had lived for Everard all those
years, and had been able to keep alive hope,
and even some kind of joy, in his breast.

The sorrow had come fo suddenly, and fallen
so irrevocably, that there had been no wearing
agony of suspense, no struggle of hopes
and fears ; the trouble had to be met and coped
with once for all, and through the dim vista
of those long years there had always gleamed
the hope that was fulfilled in the present
moment.

Everard gazed in rapt admiration on the
glorified figure in the sunshine, and upon the
well-remembered adored hand that was so
like a spirit in its pure and slender beauty,
and did not dream of helping her, it was so
long since he had known the courtesies of life.
She had only raised the centre blind of the
bay ; she now turned to the side blinds, and
drew them up with the same light and strong
sweep of her well-moulded arm, and Everard
now observed that she was in an evening
dress of some light-hued and soft fabric, and
wore a bunch of fresh roses at her neck : she
was in festal array to receive him. The golden
glory changed even as she stood, it blushed a
sudden crimson, and died away into purest

rose ; the sun set, and only the faint and
changing after-glow remained.

Lilian now turned and saw Everard clearly
in the fading rose-light, which vanished as
she looked, and left only the hard, uncompromising
light of a June evening behind.
She saw the wistful eyes deep-sunken in the
wasted face, the grey hair, the bowed form,
and the worn and haggard features, with
their sublime expression of heroic suffering,
and a sharp, plaintive cry broke from
her.

Henry ! my poor, poor Henry ! What
have they done to you ? " she cried, hastening
to his side.

He rose to meet her, and clasped the
beautiful slim hands in his own gloved ones,
and looked down into her tear-clouded eyes.
I warned you what a wreck you would see,"
he replied. " Ah, Lilian ! this is not the man
you loved."

Dearest, you must be happy now ; you
must forget all the trouble and pain," continued
Lilian, who was crying for very pity

over him. " All, Henry ! if love could heal
yon, yoTi would soon be healed."

Henry could only fold her silently to his
heart, feeling that he vas indeed healed
already.

Soon Mr. Maitland appeared, his silver hair
now snow-white, and his voice fainter than of
old. He was much shocked at the change in
Henry at first sight of him ; but he recovered
quickly, and welcomed him cordially in the
exquisite Maitland manner. His first full
conviction of Everard's guilt had gradually
disappeared, whether under the influence of
Lilian's long unswerving faith, or of the tone
of Henry's letters, which had of late often
been quoted to him, or through the softening
which old age brings, and which disposes to
increasing lenience of judgment, it is difficult
to say. He now asked his forgiveness for his
former want of faith in him.

Dear fellow," he said, " I yield Lilian
willingly to you, hard as it is to lose her.
But you have the better claim, and you have
waited long ; my poor children, you have

waited too long," he added, his eyes growing
dim as they fell on Everard's grey hairs.

He would not Lear of Everard's leaving
the house that night, but sent at once for his
portmanteau, and told him that his room had
been waiting for him for days.

"I should rather say your rooms," he explained,
"since Lilian could not decide whether
you would prefer your own old room, or one
less familiar, and thus had two arranged.
But why do you keep your gloves on ? You
were wont to despise gloves in the old
days."

'can you not guess?" asked Everard.
Did you ever see a mason's hands ? "

Shall it be the old room ? " asked Lilian,
while her father turned away, more moved at
the thought of the roughened hands than he
had thought it possible to be, and remembering
Everard's intellectual gifts, and the rich
promise of his early manhood.

Everard's had been the ideal surgeon's
hand — strong, supple, smooth, and with sensitive
finger-tips, and this skilful and scientific

instrument had been blunted and maimed by
rough mechanic labour through all the best
years of his life, while many a sufferer
had lacked its healing touch, and writhed
under the clumsier strength of less delicate
fingers.

^' Alas, Henry ! " he exclaimed, after a
pause ; " I trust I may never know the man
who let you suffer in his stead. I could not
forgive him."

A faint shudder passed over Lilian at these
words, and she directed Henry's attention to
a cushioned chair by the hearth, on which lay
a round, black something, which proved on
inspection to be Mark Antony, the cat, sleeping
the sleep of the just, and snoring blissfully.


Dear old Mark ! " said Henry, stroking
the velvet fur ; " what, alive still ? "

He has retired from active service," observed
Mr. Maitland," and devotes himself to
a life of contemplation — lazy old Mark ! "

"He is the apple of our eyes," laughed
Lilian, lifting him up, and letting him stretch

his soft limbs and yawn blissfully. "I love
the creature as if he were human ; he
has been my companion and comfort so
long."

Mr. Maitland observed that, like many
other gentlemen, Mark had taken to religion
in his later years, and was now a regular
church-goer. Every Sunday morning he
was in the habit of trotting after his master
to the vestry, where he had a cushion in a
sunny window-sill, and was respectfully-treated
by the clerk and the choristers.

These trivial anecdotes, which served to
fill an awkward silence, presently included
Cyril.

We are very proud of ' my son the dean,'
Henry, you must know ; our Chrysostom,
our golden-rnouth. You must hear him
preach some day," Mr. Maitland said finally.

Poor Cyril ! " sighed Everard. " I
stopped at Belminster on my way down, and
heard him preach. A very fine preacher,
with a singular gift. I do not wonder that
you are proud of him."

You saw Cyril ? " asked Lilian, with a
startled air.

He does not often preach," continued Mr.
Maitland. " The fact is, his nerves cannot
stand the excitement ; he throws himself too
unrestrainedly into it, and it makes him
ill."

'' He was ill that night. Yes, I saw that
he was completely carried away. He is inspired
; he is obliged to speak as he is moved.
He said what he never dreamed of saying
before he began."

Our dear Chrysostom ! " murmured the
proud father. " Yes, Henry, the fire descends
upon him ; he has the true gift. Have you
heard that he is to be Bishop of Warham ? "

Poor Cyril ! " said Henry and Lilian
simultaneously ; and neither asked the other
why he was to be pitied.

But Lilian seemed anxious to avoid the
topic, and, saying that the supper-hour was
already past, led the way into the diningroom,
with the great cat.

Puss gives me such a sense of home as I

VOL. III. M

cannot express," said Henry, fondly stroking
his unresponsive form.

We think his purr acquires mellowness
with years," laughed Lilian. "Henry, do
you still like chicken and oysters and cherry-tart
? Because I have dreamed for years of
giving them to you on such an occasion as this."

And this pale port ? " added Mr. Maitland,
pointing to a cobwebbed bottle lying on a
rack. '* You and Cyril laid it down for me.
It was drunk at his ordination, his wedding,
his eldest son's christening, and his installation
as dean. This was kept for your return,
and there is still a bottle for the bishop s
enthronement."

They did not give us very old port or

young chicken at Dart " Henry began,

and stopped, seeing Lilian glance at the
waiting-maid. He flushed, but was too
serenely happy for any morbid regrets, and
listened happily to his host's apology for the
absence of dinner, which was now only a
midday repast, owing to the declining health
of his old age.

Lilian's remembrance of his old liking
touched him as only such little things can
touch, and the meal with the old port had
almost a sacramental character for him. The
sparkle of the silver and glass, the ordinary
graces of a gentleman's table, to which he had
so long been a stranger, were beyond measure
delightful to him, and he saw by many little
indications that the fresh flowers and the
fruit and the very service, had received the
graceful touch of Lilian's own hands to
welcome him.

His last free meal had been at that board
and in that beloved presence. Since then,
save for the few solitary repasts he had
taken in hotels, he had broken the bread of
captivity moistened with tears, and had
learned almost to forget the simple courtesies
of life. It was a pleasure to drink from
bright engraved glass, to handle silver and
fresh linen, to hear the kindly voice of his
host, to observe the quiet, gliding motions of
the well-trained maid, to see the soft glow of
the lamp ; much more to feel the beloved

presence, to meet the glance of Lilian's clear
eyes, and hear the pure tones of her voice.
It was like heaven, he said, when they parted
for the night.

CHAPTER Iii.

The next day was Sunday, and Everard, like
one in a blissful dream, went to the church
so full of youthful associations, and saw many
of the faces familiar to his youth, yet unfamiliar
now because of the metamorphoses
of time, and missed many, swept away, for
the most part, into the silence which awaits
us all, and thought of the winter Sunday
eighteen years agone, when Cyril preached
his strange, passionate sermon on innocence.
He thought, too, of the sermon in the
cathedral, and the terrible anguish on the
guilty man's face, the canker that had been
eating into his heart through all those years.
He was glad to think that Marion was at
rest.

Upon the wall, opposite the Rectory pew,

he saw a marble tablet, on which he read the
following sorrowful inscription : —

Sacred to the Memory of
Marion,

BELOVED WIFE OF

THE VERY REVEREND CYRIL MAITLAND, Dad.,

DEAN OF Westminster,

WHO DIED AUGUST 20, 1875,

AGED 32 YEARS.

AND OF

the beloved children of the above:

Ernest, aged 6 years ;

Arthur and Lilian, aged 3 years;

Cyril Everard, aged 9, Bertha, aged 3,

AND William Keppel, aged 4, who all three died in

ONE WEEK OF THE SAME MALADY;

AND Edward Augustus, aged 1 year.

spare me a little, that I may recover my strength : before
I go hence, and be no more seen."

A vision of the little band of children
floated with pathetic grace before Everard's
eyes, and be thought what pangs must have
rent their parents' hearts when the earth
closed over each bright little face ; nor did
he greatly wonder that Marion's fragile

existence had been crushed by such sorrow.
The boy who had given him the bon-bons
and played at convicts headed the mournful
list, a pretty, sturdy little fellow, whose
name and features he remembered well. His
heart bled for Cyril, and yet he thought,
and wondered, did Lilian think too, as she
sat by his side, of another little group of
child-faces — of other Cyril and Lilian and
Ernest, of the very same blood as those
dead babes, who might have clustered around
their hearth but for that stricken father's sin ?
He thought also of yet another child, outcast
and disowned, who might be wandering now
in lonely manhood somewhere on the earth's
wide bosom.

Lilian had told him of the sad manner in
which Cyril's twins were lost. They were
at play on the steps of a bathing-machine,
drawn up by a rope on a sloping shore, when
the line parted, and the machine ran down
into the sea, Cyril running after it with all
his speed, and suffering the cruel anguish of
seeing the children spring towards him only

to fall in the sea, where the rollers at once
swept them away from his sight for ever.
His wild effort to save them had thus caused
their death.

Marion felt it less than Cyril, who was
an unusually affectionate father, Lilian said.
Indeed, Marion had been strangely apathetic
of late years. Her marriage was not a happy
one. She could not understand her husband,
she confessed to Lilian in her last hours ; he
was kind, and even tender, towards her, but
she was afraid of him, and grew more afraid
as years went on. There was something
she knew not what — between them, and
Cyril's strange and terrible melancholy was
enough to depress a stronger nature than
hers.

I have sometimes thought," commented
Lilian, " that Marion's continual bereavements
and fragile health may have unhinged her
mind ; there was certainly something morbid
in the way in which she thought of Cyril."
There was a wistful appeal in Lilian's voice
as she said this, and an expression in the

eyes which she lifted to Everard's that made
him shiver inwardly.

I think," he replied gently, " that their
characters were unsuited to each other. Cyril
needed a wife of stronger intellect, and
Marion a man of less complex character,
whom she could have understood and appreciated.
You know, I always said that her
health would give way under unhappiness :
she needed the gentlest cherishing. And she
is at rest now, Lilian, and it is well with
her," he added, with a faint tremble in his
voice. " I urged the marriage because I knew
that the disappointment would kill her."

They were sitting in the bay of the 
window during this conversation,
the bells were dropping their slow chime,
laden with memories, into Everard's heart
and ears, and people were walking church-wards
in little groups through the lane at
the bottom of the garden. Then the drawing-room
door opened suddenly, and, with a
rustle of silk and a glow of fine raiment,
a most beautiful young lady entered unannounced,

and embraced Everard in a
rapturous manner, calling him her dear
Henry, and saying how delighted she was
to see him again, and how she should have
known him anywhere.

This is very agreeable," he replied, recovering
himself, " but rather embarrassing."

But don't you know me, Henry ? " sie
cried.

Have you forgotten Winnie ? " asked
Lilian.

And here is my husband. Surely you
remember him ? " said Winnie, turning to Sir
Ingram Swaynestone, who had followed her
in, with a fair-haired child in his hand, and
who was a much more portly and imposing
personage than he had been eighteen years
ago.

Ingram thought that the homicide, by
whomsoever committed, had at least been
unintentional. He could not refuse this
meeting without paining the sisters, which
he was too good-natured to do. He therefore
tried to make the best of it.

I am inclined to believe that there was
some mistake in that business of poor Lee's,"
he said, after greeting Henry, " though it is
hard to doubt the evidence of one's senses. I
hope, Dr. Everard, we shall be able to forget
the parts we had to play then."

I hope so," replied Everard, feeling that
Svvaynestone could not meet him without
some such concession, but seeing very plainly
that he did not doubt the evidence of his
senses.

This is our daughter Lilian," Sir Ingram
added, thus ending a rather embarrassing
pause, bidding the child go and shake hands,
which she stoutly refused to do.

Naughty little thing ! Her father spoils
her shamefully' said Winnie ; " simply for
the sake of her name, I believe. But little
girls who won't shake hands with gentlemen
will never be like Aunt Lilian," she added
severely.

"And where is Lionel?" asked Lilian,
taking the child on her knee. " Is he not
going to church ? "

Master Lionel was not in a devout frame
of mind this morning," replied his father.
'' When requested to indue his go-tormenting
clothes, he threw himself on the ground and
roared with the vigour of ten boys, so, of
course, he had his way. Can you imagine
who spoils Lion, Aunt Lilian ? "

'' Poor darling ! " said Lady Swaynestone ;
'' I am sure he is not well. His nervous
system is so quickly upset."

Me don't like him hands," observed little
Lilian at this juncture, pointing to Henry's
hands ; but, with the waywardness of her
age, she was struck at the same moment
by the expression of his face, and climbed
on his knee with the utmost confidence.

By the way, we had a letter from the
Very Reverend yesterday," said Winnie.
*' He wrote very hurriedly in answer to a
business letter of Ingram's, but he said that
Lennie's ship is coming home with the
squadron ; also that the rumour of his engagement
to that girl at Malta is well founded,
so we suppose there will be a Mrs. Lennie
before long."

'' Father and I have long been prepared to
receive the girl at Malta," Lilian said ; and
she opened an album, and showed Everard
the photograph of a fine young naval officer,
whom he recognized as his old playfellow
Lennie.

They were setting off for the church, when
a lady, dressed in a conventual garb, entered
the gate and came to meet them.

I am quite disappointed," she said, with
a smile that brought back old times to
Everard ; " I wanted to be the first to meet
Dr. Everard, and welcome him. I see that
you have forgotten Ethel Swaynestone, Dr.
Everard."

I was not prepared for the dress," replied
Everard, wondering at the bright flush which
overspread her thin, delicate face ; for he did
not dream that the romance of her life owned
him as its central figure.

Dr. Everard has not yet seen the hospital,
Ethel," said Lilian ; and then it was explained
to him that Lilian had caused two
cottages to be built, one for convalescents

and one for sick poor people, and had placed
them under the charge of Miss Swaynestone's
sisterhood, a sister from which always lived
there, and, with help from Lilian, nursed the
parish sick in their own homes or at the
cottages.

The question is, what does Lilian not do ? "
commented Sir Ingram. " She scolds all the
drunkards and scamps ; she arranges all the
matrimonial squabbles — Winnie and I dare
not for the life of us have a comfortable
wrangle together ; she exhorts the naughty
children ; she makes up the quarrels of sweethearts
; she makes people's wills for them ;
she keeps an asylum for aged and useless
beasts of every description ; she engages
servants that nobody else can put up with,
and turns them out marvels of perfection ;
she entertains dipsomaniacs and other bad
characters at the Rectory, and sends them
back candidates for canonization ; she tames
unruly animals for miles round, and heals
sick ones ; nobody ever dreams of getting
married or born, or buying a field, or going

to service, without first asking her advice ; — in
short, she is the most fearful busybody at
large. And, to crown all, she insists on
marrying a ticket-of-]eave man," he added,
within himself.

It was delicious to Everard to go through
the old Sunday routine again, and think
that this simple, quiet, wholesome life had
been going on all through those weary prison
years. There was Mr. Marvyn, the curate,
who had instructed his youth, preaching the
old familiar sermons, with their scraps of
learning and difficult theological and ethical
problems, which flew so far over the heads of
the slumbering congregation ; there was the
harmonium, a little touched with asthma, and
played, as of yore, by Mrs. Wax, who, with
her husband, had survived all the changes,
and gallantly faced all the requirements of
new education codes ; there were the whole
clan of Hales and Straun, and the discontented
tailor, whose discontent was now silvered by
the dignity of hoar hairs, and William
Grove, and his mate Jem.

Job Stubbs, the chorister whose levity had
been publicly rebuked by his pastor, now sat
among the basses, and thundered out deep
chest-notes from beneath his white surplice,
himself the parent of light-hearted boys and
girls ; Dicky Stevens, also a husband and
father, sat near him, as of old, but led the
tenors instead of the trebles, and sent his
naughty boys to be tamed by the hand which
had redeemed his own youth from the tyranny
of the stick. In the afternoon, Mr. Maitland
preached in the sweet, paternal, simple strain
that had so impressed Everard's youth, with
the beautiful Maitland voice and manner, and
the pure diction he had loved.

It was easy to see whence the dean's great
powers were derived ; it was impossible not
to think that talents as great, nay, perhaps
in some respects greater, than his were buried
in this humble little village. His son's sudden
flights of inspiration were indeed wanting in
the village priest's quiet eloquence, but his
sermons had something that was lacking in
the dean's — namely, the steady glow of a

fervid and unaffected piety, which only
aimed at making his hearers better men and
women, and thought not of ambition and self.
Nunc Dimittis was the good old gentleman's
theme, and it filled Everard's heart with a
beautiful peace. He did not know how
appropriate it was to the occasion, since he
did not dream that these were the last words
the gentle priest was to say to his flock ; nor
did he dream that the sermon which he knew
Cyril was then preaching before so different
an audience in Belminster Cathedral was to bethe
last of the brilliant and soul-searching
orations which had won him so lustrous a
name.

*' My children," said Mr. Maitland, in conclusion,
" I beseech you to keep innocency ;
for that, and that alone, shall bring a man
peace at the last." Strange echo of his son's
first sermon in that church !

It had been whispered about that the
broken, wistful-eyed man sitting in the
Rectory pew was no other than the too-notorious
Dr. Everard, whose trial and

YOL. III. K

sentence were still so fresh in the village
memory. Searching glances were directed
upon him during afternoon sermon, and
many eyes recognized the features of the
handsome and hopeful young doctor under
his wan and changed aspect, so that when
Everard came forth into the afternoon sunshine,
he was surprised to see a little lane
formed about the churchyard path, and to
find himself accosted by name. There had
from the first been a faction in the village
convinced of Everard's innocence. It was
the head of this faction who now spoke.

Grad to see you back, sir," blurted out
Straun, with a perspiring effort, as he took
off his hat and held out his great hand. " We
snowed you never done it."

Ay, we snowed you never done it,"
chimed in William Grove, and some others,
advancing also with outstretched hand.
Granter, he snowed you never done it ;
and this here is Granter s tombstone," added
the shepherd who had seen Everard on his
road to Widow Dove's on the fatal afternoon,

bringing his hard hand down on the stone, as
if its existence were a solid proof of Granter's
valuable opinion on the subject.

And Widow Dove," said Tom Hale, the
old soldier, ^' as her daughter married my
wife's brother, as set up in the hardware line
at Oldport, it lay on her conscience when she
come to die, as she never said nothing about
her fire being out that afternoon, and no
candle, and the door shut, when you came up
and thought the house empty. Many's the
time shee spoke of that to my wife on her
dying bed, as helped nurse her, and had it
wrote in the family Bible."

And my little gal, she minds now how
you give her the penny that night," added
William Grove, pushing forwards a bashful,
buxom young woman, with a child in her
arms, who curtseyed and blushed. '^ Growed.
up she is, and made a granter of me, sure
enough," her father added.

Everard could scarcely speak ; he could
only grasp each proffered hand and murmur
some vague words of thanks, but his heart

was deeply stirred as he passed along the
lane of kindly, hearty faces, and went ont
into the road, where he found Farmer Long
and his family, who were waiting to welcome
him and express their sorrow at the unmerited
calamity which had befallen him.

This little outburst on the part of the
stolid, undemonstrative rustics was so unexpected,
and so strong a proof of the feeling
with which his innocence was regarded by
some of his old friends, though not, as he
well knew, by all, that it almost overpowered
him, and he was glad to take refuge within
the Rectory gate. On turning to shut it,
he saw his friends still standing in the afternoon
sunlight, with their hats off till he
should have vanished from their sight, and
he again removed his own.

He sat with Mr. Maitland and Lilian under
the thick-leaved lime tree, silent and happy,
watching the shadows turn soft and slant,
and the swallows dart across the sunny blue,
while the father and daughter told him many
things that had come to pass in his absence.

and tea was brought out ; and, finally, Mr.
Maitland sank into the peaceful slumber which
usually followed his Sunday labours. Then
Lilian took the cat in her arms, and walked
towards the field to visit her invalid animals.

Why do you carry that great creature ? "
asked Everard. " Let me take him for you."

As if Mark would suffer any one else to
carry him ! " laughed Lilian, as the cat, with
an indignant look at Everard, clasped his
fore paws round her neck, and rubbed his
head against her cheek. "• You cannot imagine
how I love the thing, Henry ; he is a link
with the past. Do you remember the day we
found him, a stray, half-starved kitten, up by
Temple Copse ? It was the Christmas vacation,
and you and I and Cyril were talking
about his chance of taking honours. How
happy we were ! "

It was a frosty day," continued Everard,
musingly, " and the kitten was numb with
cold till you warmed it in your furs. Its
bones were staring through its skin."

And it has loved me ever since — me and

Cyril only. Mark never forgets Cyril, but
runs to him still," said Lilian, stroking the
warm soft fur. 'only once did Mark make
a mistake — on that fatal evening when he
ran after the grey figure in the dusk, else he
never ran after any human being but myself
and Cyril. Was it not strange, Henry ? "
she added, finding that he made no comment.

The whole occurrence was strange,
dearest, and better forgo tteu," he replied
evasively.

Do you think it was an optical delusion ? "
she persisted, after some trivial and irrelevant
remarks on the part of Everard, who wished
to change the subject.

'' No doubt it was ; perhaps a light was
reflected from some quarter by the opening of
a door. Who knows ? One is often deceived
in the twilight, when everything is more or
less ghostly. That old beech still stands. It
will be down some stormy night."

Cats are not deceived by the twilight,"
continued Lilian, with a tremor in her voice ;
they see better in the dusk. Oh, Henry,"

she added, with a stifled cry, " there was but
one the cat ever followed ! "

She was trembling, and for the moment
Everard paused with a blanched cheek,
unable to say anything.

You have brooded too long over this,"
he said at last, with a lame effort at lightness,
and your imagination creates bugbears
from it. The cat probably saw or smelt a
mouse, and ran after that. Or he may have
been merely frisking about, as cats do, in the
dusk. Think no more of it, Lilian. Let us
bury that troubled past for ever."

'' It is not possible, Henry," she replied, still
trembling. " Things that are branded into
one can never be forgotten. Dear Henry,
tell me one thing. Do you know who did
that dreadful thing for which you suffered ? "

How should I know ? " he returned, in a
hard voice that he could not control. " I do
not think it will be known, Lilian, till the
day when all things are revealed. There is
an impenetrable mystery about it. Let it
remain. Why lift the veil ? "

Lilian gazed earnestly upon his troubled
and averted face, and then said, in low,
thrilling tones, ^' Henry, you now who killed
Benjamin Lee, and you know that the man
who did it wore your clothes and passed up
the staircase in the dusk that night."

Everard's heart stood still, and his temples
throbbed. " Dear," he replied, " I do know
who killed that poor man, but I do not wish
to reveal it. I have known it for eighteen
years, and have seen no cause for revealing
it. Such knowledge would benefit no human
being ; it would inflict terrible suffering on
some. Do not tempt me to break my silence,
Lilian ; it is a point of honour."

Lilian had dropped the cat on the grass,
and was leaning against the light iron fence
of the paddock. She now turned, and, clasping
Everard's arm with convulsive force,
looked imploringly in his face.

Tell me," she cried, " tell me that it is
not so — that I am mistaken ; that it was a
bad dream — an evil fancy ! Say, oh, Henry,
if you love me, say it was not he ! "

She was sobbing now, and quivering allover
in unspeakable agitation — she who was
so calm and self-controlled usually. Henry
drew her to him, and strove by caresses and
words of love to soothe her, but was himself
far too much agitated to be able to deceive
her.

Oh ! " she cried, '' I cannot, cannot bear
it ! My Cyril ! my own brother ! my poor,
poor Cyril ! I understand it all now."

^' You know, dearest," said Everard at last,
with grave, compassionate tenderness, '' that
nothing can happen without the will of God."

Lilian's sobs became quieter at these words,
and after a time they ceased, and she lifted
her head and looked back at the lime tree,
beneath the shade of which they could seethe
white head of her sleeping father.

There is one," said Henry, pointing to
him, " who must never suspect."

He never shall," replied Lilian, striving
to regain her habitual self-command. " But
oh, my poor, poor boy ! Such awful hypocrisy.
I would not suspect for a long time ; it

seemed like a temptation of the evil one.
Not until Marion's death. I think she was
afraid to let herself think. But she told me
so much when she was dying. And Cyril —
ah, Henry, he was always weak ! But a
traitor ! oh, it seems incredible ! Ah, what
a dark and terrible mystery our nature is !
And he let you suffer, you who loved him so !
Oh, my Henry ! "

You know, Lilian," repeated Everard, in
unutterable love and pity, " it was permitted
by the Divine WilL" And the words again
had a quieting effect upon Lilian, who had
now regained her serene charm of face and
manner, inwardly torn as she was.

And you saw him ? " she asked. " How
could he meet you ? What could he say ?
Oh, how can he have lived this lie, and borne
this awful burden all these years ? "

'^ His burden was heavier than mine,"
Everard said ; and then he described their
meeting in the cathedral, Cyril's passionate
sermon, his terrible agitation on recognizing
him among the crowded congregation, and

his own letter of forgiveness to the unhappy
man.

But they each wondered that he had not
yet answered the letter.

'^ Doubtless there will be an answer tomorrow,"
said Everard.

And I must go to him and tell him that
I know and pity all," said Lilian. '^ Yes,
there will be an answer tomorrow."

But the answer never came.

CHAPTER Viii.

It was said that the pope, on being asked
once if he knew anything of the Church of
England, replied that he thought he remembered
having heard something about an
eloquent dean in that communion, named
Maitland. Others told the story differently,
and averred that it was Bishop Oliver who
had conferred such lustre on the national
Church.

The bishop himself, on being asked whom
he considered the first preacher in the
Church, had replied that Dean Maitland was
undoubtedly the second, his interrogator
divining, from a shrewd twinkle in the episcopal
eye, that there would be a lack of
delicacy in pressing him to name the first.
The same querist, on putting a similar question

to the dean, had been met by a genial
smile, and the candid but laughing* avowal
that he had never heard any one compared
to himself, unless it was the bishop ; for the
dean's ingenuous, ahiiost childlike, candour
was not one of the least of his social charms.

The two ecclesiastics were rivals not only
in the pulpit, but in the world. Both were
favourites at Court and in general society ;
but the bishop lacked the personal beauty
and grace of the dean, and, though a good
talker and clever raconteur, and possessed of
a fund of genuine humour, he had not the
dean's bright, swift wit or his light and
playful touch in conversation : his mirth, like
his intellect, was elephantine in comparison
with the pard-like gracefulness of the dean's.
Nor did the bishop possess that rare and
magnetic power of attracting and subjugating
people's hearts peculiar to Cyril Maitland,
and given to a few choice spirits destined to
rule men.

His features were square, massive, and
expressive of solid intellect, unvisited by the

lightning flashes of emotion and thought
which gave new beauty to the dean's beautiful
face. Bishop Oliver was past middle age,
and looked as if he had never been young,
while the dean looked as if he could never
be old. He was a good man, though human.
In all the farthest recesses of his memory
there was nothing he feared to look at ;
there was no spiritual tragedy in his life ; he
was unacquainted with the depths of human
agony. Thus his sermons, though possessing
a more level and sustained excellence than
the dean's, though showing greater intellect
and learning, had infinitely less power to
touch men's hearts ; nor was he ever carried
away beyond the limits of his will, and thus
enabled to carry others away, as the dean
was. People did not fly to him for spiritual
help, as they did to the dean, for he did not
possess his absolute sympathy with the sinful ;
their lives and experiences differed so widely
from his own spotless career, that he could
not but regard them as aliens, strive as he
would to call them brothers.

But there was something in Dean Maitland's
way of regarding sin and sinners
which opened the darkest recesses of people's
hearts to him, and men had not feared to
pour into his sympathizing ear things which
it froze the blood to hear. Very tender
was the healing hand he laid upon sick souls
tender but firm. No one knew better
than he the remedies which alone can heal
such deadly maladies, although, like many
physicians of the body, he had not the
strength of will to apply his prescriptions
to his own case. Of this he was sometimes
conscious, as was seen in his last sermon to
candidates for ordination, when he had taken
for text, lest 1 myself, when I have preached
to others, should become a castaway."

Never for a moment let it be thought that
sin is in any way necessary or good or helpful,
anything but vile and injurious in itself
or in its far-reaching consequences ; yet it
is an undoubted fact that in some natures
a heavy fall leads to a higher spiritual development.
Good is stronger than evil, and

the eternal purpose which rates in all things,
and against which nothing human can prevail,
often appears to bring the brightest
light from the thickest darkness. Thus this
man's black iniquity was made an instrument
of healing to others.

The bishop's detractors accused him of
worldliness and ambition, and said that he
misapplied St. Paul's injunction, to be all
things to all men, and was too good a courtier
to be a good Christian.

It must be confessed that the bishop, being
human as well as Christian, did greatly love
the esteem of men, and particularly of princes,
and in his heart of hearts felt it hard that he
and the dean should have their lines cast in
the same place, expressly, as it seemed to him,
that the lustre of his own renown might bedimmed
by the greater brilliance of his rival's.
They were, however, the best of friends — for
even the bishop was subjugated by the irresistible
charm of his rival's manner whenever
he came into personal contact with him — and
had been heard to observe, after one of those

slight differences of opinion that must sometimes
arise between the bishop and the dean,
that it was pleasant to be at war with Dean
Maitland than at peace with the majority of
mankind. Yet it was said of Bishop Oliver
that he managed never to be at war with
mortal man, Jew or papist, churchman or
dissenter, atheist or fanatic.

The dean's preferment to the see of War-ham
was at once a rose and a thorn to the
bishop, a rose, because it would remove his
rival to such a distance that he would no
longer daily overshadow him ; a thorn, because
the see of Warham was of greater
dignity and emolument than that of Belminster.
Thus he regarded it with mixed
feelings, and had been heard to say that
from the deanery of Belminster to the
episcopal throne of Warham was a singularly
sudden leap.

Not that Bishop Oliver for a moment
accused himself of so mean a thing as
jealousy ; he imagined himself to be actuated
solely by deep solicitude for the weal of

YOL. in.

Cliurcli and State, which he sincerely thought
himself better calculated to serve than the
dean. But when, on the Sunday following
the dean's illness in the pulpit, the bishop
was sitting tranquilly at luncheon, he was
greatly discomposed by an observation from
one of his young people, to the effect that the
premier was coming down to Belminster that
very afternoon for the express purpose, it
was said, though this was not the case, since
the minister chanced to be passing a Sunday
at Dewhurst Castle, of hearing the bishop-designate
preach.

Nonsense, my dear Mabel ! " he said.
Ministers have something better to do than
to be running about after popular preachers,
particularly while Parliament is in session''

A young clergyman present passed his
napkin before his face to conceal an irrepressible
smile, and remembered how differently
the bishop had spoken of people who came to
hear him preach.

*' Well, my dear father, I can only regret
the levity of Mr. Chad well's disposition,"

returned Mabel, " for he certainly telegraphed
last night to know if the dean was to preach
this afternoon."

I thought' returned the bishop, " that
his recovery was singularly rapid. He was
very ill on Friday. It is a great pity that
he should excite himself so much ; he will
kill himself one of these days. And that
kind of sermon does no permanent good."

By the way, sir," said a son, " there is
a queer story about the dean. Some woman
who died at the hospital last week accused
him of all manner of goings-on with her last
breath, I hear."

'' Tittle-tattle, Herbert ; nothing more.
Local celebrities are always the centres of
scandalous report."

The fierce light that beats upon a
deanery," laughed the young fellow. " Well,
these were strange doings for a dean, T must
say."

The bishop adroitly started a fresh topic,
but he could not help reflecting in his heart
of hearts that the doings attributed to the

dean by the half-uttered, half-suppressed
rumours he knew to be flying about, were
indeed remarkably strange. For Alma's
dying statement had not been made in
private; the dean's delay and her own extremity
had rendered her desperate, and her
one desire was that the injustice done Everard
should be known. He could not help reflecting,
moreover, that there was probably some
foundation for the rumours, however slight,
and he felt that he should not be struck
dumb with surprise if he learnt that the
brilliant and handsome ecclesiastic had sown
a few wild oats in his hot youth, and bitterly
repented the harvest such sowing always
entails. He had often wondered at the
power and passion with which he depicted
feelings of remorse ; yet he was destined to
be greatly surprised that afternoon.

The cathedral was crowded. People sat on
the choir steps and filled the nave to the
farthest limits of hearing ; chairs were placed
north and south of the choir ; the choir itself
was as full as its stately decorum permitted.

The well-known face of the premier was seen
among the worshippers. This gentleman
intended calling at the Deanery after the
service, and had sent an intimation to that
effect.

The dean smiled rather grimly when he
heard who was to be his guest that afternoon,
and speedily quieted the agitation into which
Miss Mackenzie was always thrown at the
prospect of visits from people of distinction.
You need not get out the best china," he
said, with his old playful way of alluding to
stock jests ; " I promise you that the minister
will not come."

He was going to the cathedral, manuscript
in hand, as he spoke. He turned back again,
and met Miss Mackenzie descending the
stairs, dressed ready for the cathedral, and
she observed that he was paler than ever,
and grave as he had been since his seizure
on the Friday night.

"Dear Miss Mackenzie," he said, in his
sweetest way, " I have a little favour to ask
you.'

He paused, and Miss Mackenzie began,

Oil, Mr. Dean, anything I can do "

for she, like everybody else, felt that the
dean conferred a favour in asking one.

You have been a good friend," he continued,
'* and I owe much of the peace and
comfort of my home to you."

"And what do I not owe to you?" she.
replied, with enthusiasm. ** How happy I
have been here ! "

I hope, indeed, that you have been happy
under my roof," he went on. " I should be
grieved if it were otherwise, for I am not all
bad. I only want you Miss Mackenzie, todo
me the slight favour of staying at home
this afternoon."

Then he turned and went, leaving the
gentlewoman rooted to the ground with
surprise until he reached the door, when he
again turned and wished her good-bye in a
voice that she never forgot. Reflecting on
this little incident afterwards, she regarded
it as a strong proof of the solid friendship
which existed between them, and enjoyed

many a comfortable cry over it in subsequent
years.

The organ was rolling great waves of
sorrowful music about the vaulted roof of the
cathedral, Dr. Rydal, the organist, being-plunged
in one of those fits of profound
melancholy to which the artistic temperament
is liable. Such* a gloom had not brooded
over him for years, and all his efforts to
shake it off and modulate his mournful
cadences into more joyous harmonies were
vain ; so at last he gave rein to it, and passed
out of one minor key into another, until he
glided finally into the passionate pleading of
Mendelssohn's " Lord, have mercy, and
blot out my transgression," from the St. Paul,
and the choir paced in with even step, a long-procession
of white robes, closed by the dean's
scarlet hood and the bishop's lawn.

People noticed the dean's worn face and
his look of utter weariness, particularly when
he stood up to read the First Lesson, which
chanced to contain the pathetic story of the
death of Absalom, and never, they thought,

was the pathos of that divine narrative, the
stumbling-block and the despair of most
readers, more truly and beautifully rendered.
His magnificent voice never for a moment
escaped his control, but pealed steadily on,
giving due weight and meaning to every
syllable, and throwing the full measure of
the stricken and penitent father's anguish
into the heart-rending words, " my son
Absalom, my son, my son Absalom ! would
God I had died for thee, Absalom, my son,
my son ! " — words so nobly simple in their
unutterable sorrow.

Many eyes were wet when the dean ended
his reading, and most of those who were
listening remembered of how many Absalom
he had been bereaved ; but they did not dream
how close the parallel was between him and
the crowned mourner of Israel, who knew
that his own sin had wrought him these
terrible woes.

He had not observed the immense concourse
of people ; his eyes had been bent on
the ground, his soul had been too conscious

of awful presences, too occupied bj eternal
realities, to be disturbed by anything human
when he entered the holy building. But
when he finished reading and was turning
from the lectern, the force of old habit was
so strong upon him that he lifted his head,
and with one lightning glance swept all the
crowded spaces of the vast building, and encountered
the multitudinous gaze of the great
sea of faces.

He saw the premier, the familiar figures of
the dwellers in the close, and the people from
the city and its environs, the fashion of
Belminster and its commerce, working people
and idlers, the known and the unknown, the
choir and the clergy, the bishop and the
quaintly clad albumen ; and, quite near him.
Lady Louisa, with Lord Arthur and the duke
and duchess, who had driven through the hot
sun all the way from the castle with their
distinguished guest for the express purpose
of hearing the famed eloquence of the bishop-elect.


He thought that all that multitude must

soon know his shame, they who honoured
him and hung waiting upon his words, and
the thousand eyes bent upon him, more or
less full of the deep thoughts stirred by the
divine narrative he had just read so perfectly,
seemed like so many points of flame darting
into the most secret recesses of his soul ; he
turned sick, and longed for the pavement
beneath his feet to yawn and swallow him.
What mortal could bear that crushing weight
of scorn ? he wondered. The mere anticipation
of it stopped his breath and made his
heart shudder with a piercing pain ; it must
certainly kill him.

He returned to his stall, against the dark
carved work of which his face showed like
some beautiful Greek marble, quite as white
and still, and the organ pealed, and the voices
of the full choir blended in magnificent
billows of song, and the words of the
Magnificat fell upon his unheeding ear, till a
bass voice separated itself from the others,
and thundered out, " He hath put down the
mighty from their seat," in tones which

seemed to convey a special menace to ibis
troubled soul.

Tbe great congregation seemed to melt
away, and before his eyes arose the face that
bad never left bim since the moment when
be first saw it, two nights ago — the worn
and wasted face of bis betrayed friend, with
its loyal gaze of heroic sadness " looking
ancient kindness " upon bis self-accusing
misery. Never, be thought, while be lived,
would the look of that face cease to aunt
bim — never, perhaps, even through all the
endless ages of eternity. And not that face
alone ; others less kindly arose to bunt ibis
tortured soul with their glances.

Alma Lee, in all the lustre of her fresh,
unsullied beauty, as be bad seen her in her
father's bouse on the night when be rescued
her from the waggoner's rudeness ; Alma,
with the startled self-betrayal in her guileless,
passionate glance ; Alma, a little child, sporting
with him over the meadow, wreathed
with chains of flowers or crowned with berry
crowns ; and Alma, ruined, with a new and

sinister splendour in her beauty, as she stood
and swore away the honour of his friend.
The child eyes hurt him most ; " Grive me
back my innocence," they said, in their dumb,
sweet appeal.

Then Ben Lee rose, with the fierce passion
in his livid face, and the dreadful stain upon
it : " Grive me back my life, and the honour
of my child ! " cried his angry, accusing
glance. He saw the estranged, terrified lookin
Marion's dying eyes. His dead babes
came with strange reproach in their appealing
glances, and asked why they were only
born to fade ; and Lilian looked upon him
with her sweet and loving gaze, and asked
dumbly for the lover of her youth, and the
children who were never born. " And Lilian
must know all," he thought, with agony.
But the look in the eyes of the betrayed was
present through all, and that look was like an
anchor to stay his shuddering soul upon.

The voices of the choir rose upon the
mighty pinions of the anthem, and eased his
heart somewhat of its sore burden. " Hide

thy face from my sins, and blot out all my
misdeeds," they sang in strains that seemed
to issue from the depths of broken hearts.
The sweet and sorrowful music sank into his
soul with healing balm ; a pure-toned soprano
repeated the phrase in soul-subduing melody,
and a solemn peace fell upon him in spite of
all those visionary glances turned so accusingly
towards him.

And now it was time for him to ascend the
pulpit, and he rose from his stall with his
accustomed air of quiet reverence, and walked
up the choir. As he went, his eye fell upon
that symbol of solemn humbug — for he did
not believe in it ; he had worn it and
abstained from wine only for the sake of
influence — the scrap of blue ribbon which was
attached to his surplice, and he took it off
and cast it on the pavement beneath his feet.
He had done with all fripperies and realities
now ; his soul stood at last, stripped of all
pretence, in the awful presence of his Maker.

Save that his face was very pale, and there
were purple shadows about his mouth, there

was nothing unusual in his manner as he
ascended the steps to the pulpit amid the
rolling harmonies of the hymn, in which the
vast congregation joined, and looked round
upon the familiar spectacle of the multitude
of faces. There he stood, one sinful man in
the presence of many sinful men, erring and
weak and weary, and all unworthy of the
garb he wore, yet the ambassador of high
heaven, and charged with a divine message
a solitary figure on an awful eminence.

It was a beautiful, an inspiring, and to
him a familiar scene, which offered itself to
his gaze. Immediately beneath and around
him, shut in by the dark, rich cavity of the
choir, were the white robes of the choristers,
interspersed with the bright silk hoods of the
clergy, and the gay and rich summer dresses
of ladies, just relieved by a sprinkling of black
coats. All down the nave spread a dark
dimly seen mass of human beings, varied by
the glow of a soldier's coat or the brightness
of a woman's dress catching the broad afternoon
light, which, streaming through the

great west window, fell in broken rays of
many-coloured glory here and there, or,
entering through the clear aisle windows,
shed a diffused whiteness over all.

On either side the choir, aisle and transept
presented the same aspect of massed humanity ;
some long, dusty rods of golden light fell
athwart the shadowy choir, and turned a
black oak crocket or fretted pinnacle to gold ;
and from all that vast mass of standing-worshippers
rose the mighty surge of a
penitential hymn, and rolled in solemn, far-spreading
billows around the sinful man who
stood a witness between earth and heaven
upon the solitary height.

But the dean's steadfast, forward gaze saw
nothing of the spectacle before him, a spectacle
so wont to inspirit him to his loftiest
flights ; he was not even conscious of those
haunting, accusing glances from the past :
was conscious, for those few brief moments
in which he strove to nerve himself to an
effort beyond his strength, of nothing but the
presence of the Maker against whom he had

sinned, and saw only the sorrowful glance
which has gazed from the Cross all down the
ages upon the deeds of sinful men. His soul
stood, stripped and shuddering with the shame
of its uncovered sin, in the searching light of
the awful glance from which the first sinner
vainly tried to hide.

The vast surge of the hymn subsided, the
plaintive murmurs of the organ died away
lingeringly among the echoing aisles, the
worshippers rustled to their seats, and every
eye was turned expectantly upon the preacher,
who quailed slightly before the innumerable
gaze, and, coming to himself, thought with
agony of the thing that must soon lie bare
and open before them. His lips blanched in
the strenuous anguish of his internal conflict,
and the power of speech deserted him for a
second or two. His manuscript lay open and
ready on the desk ; he looked upon and read
the neatly written text. Then he took from
his pocket a piece of folded paper, which he
held in his left hand, as if it were some
talisman, and found strength to begin.

CHAPTER IX.

As he opened his lips, a vision of the little
church at Malbourne rushed swiftly before
his mental gaze. He saw the familiar faces
clustered about the heavy grey pillars, and
the reverend figure of his father in the
ancient pulpit, and all the holy counsels
uttered in that father's beloved voice came
upon him in one moment; but he did not
know that this his father's last sermon was
the echo of his own first.

He gave out his text, ''I will confess my
wickedness, and be sorry for my sin," and
began quietly reading from the manuscript
before him in a clear and harmonious but
strikingly level tone, which, though audible
all over the building, did not correct the
general tendency to drowsiness on that hot
and drowsy afternoon.

VOL. III. P

The premier and those who heard him for
the first time were disappointed, the premier
deciding within himself that he would not
confer much lustre upon the oratory of the
Upper House, and would never endanger
Bishop Oliver's position as the best speaker
on the Bench.

It was a sermon such as dozens of clergymen
turn out every day. The preacher exhorted
his hearers to repent and confess
their sins. He reminded them that repentance
is the first and last duty which the
Church enjoins on her children. He alluded
to the differing practice of the Church indifferent
ages with regard to it, and its exaggeration
in the Roman Communion and in
old American Puritan days. He observed
that some sins exacted public confession. At
this point he became a little paler, and his
voice rose on its accustomed sonorous swell.
He said that it was a right and wholesome
feeling which prostrated a crowned king-before
the tomb of the murdered archbishop
at Canterbury, kept an emperor barefoot in

the snow at Canossa, and humiliated Theodosius
before the closed gates of Milan
Cathedral. " Do you know, my brothers,"
he continued, with a thrill of intense feeling
in his voice, " why I speak to-day of the duty
of public confession of public sin ? I have a
purpose."

He paused. For some moments there
reigned that dead silence which is so awfully
impressive in a vast assembly of living and
breathing human beings. He paused so long
that people grew uncomfortable, thinking he
must be ill, and the buzzing of a perplexed
humble-bee, which had somehow strayed into
the choir, and was tumbling aimlessly against
people's heads, sounded loud and profane,
and the man who could not repress a sneeze
and the lady who let her Prayer-book fall felt
each guilty of an unpardonable crime. Meantime,
the dean gazed quietly before him, and
no one saw the chill drops of agony which
beaded his brow, or suspected the anguish
which literally rent his heart.

The bishop with difficulty suppressed a

grunt of disapproval. " He pauses for effect,"
he thought ; " now for the fireworks ! Divine
rage consumes the dean 1 Out with the
handkerchiefs. If people must rant, why on
earth can't they rant in barns ? "

'' My brothers," continued the dean, at last
breaking the thrilling silence, and speaking
ill a low but perfectly clear and audible
voice, " it is because I myself am the most
grievous of sinners and have sinned publicly
in the face of this great congregation, the
meanest among whom I am unworthy to
address, because I wish to confess my wickedness,
and tell you that I am sorry for my sin.
I have no right to be standing in this place
to-day ; to be the parish priest, as it were, of
this noble building ; to fill an office hallowed
by the service of a long line of saintly men.
My life has been one black lie. The three
darkest blots upon the soul of man — impurity,
bloodshed, treachery — have stained my soul."

At these words there was a faint rustle of
surprise through all the congregation. The
bishop frowned; "He drives his theatrical

exaggeration too far," he thought. The duke
and Lord Arthur recovered from the gentle
sluraher the sermon's beginning had induced.
Every eye was fixed in wonder, interest, or
incredulity upon the marble features of the
preacher — that is, every eye within the choir ;
while to those outside it, who heard the voice
from an invisible source, the effect was
doubled.

'' My life," he continued, " has been outwardly
successful in no small degree. I
have, in spite of my sin, been permitted to
minister to sick souls ; for the Almighty is
pleased sometimes to use the vilest instruments
for noble ends. I have sat at goodmen's
feasts, an honoured guest ; yes, and at
the tables of the great, the very greatest in
the land. I have risen to a position of
eminence in the ministry of our national
Church — that Church whose meanest office
better men than I are unworthy to fill. I
have been offered still greater honours, the
office of bishop and the dignity of a spiritual
peerage, as you all know ; nor was it till now

my intention to decline this promotion. I
have been much before the public in other
ways, which it were unbecoming to mention
in this holy place. Such dignities as have
been mine, my brothers — for I may still, in
spite of my sins, call you brothers, since I am
still Grod's child, and only desire to return to
Him by the way of penitence — such dignities
are based upon the assumption not only of
moral rectitude, but of decided piety, and
neither of these has ever been miiie. My
beloved brothers, hear me, and take warning,
and oh ! pity me, for I am the most miserable
of men. Like those against whom Christ
pronounced such bitter woes, I have desired
to wear long robes, to receive greetings in
the market-place, to occupy the chief seats
in synagogues ; these things have been the
very breath of my nostrils, and for these I
have sinned heavily, heavily. The favour of
men has been dear to me, therefore I offer
myself to their scorn. To no man, I think,
has man's favour been dearer than to me.
Ah, my brothers, there is no more bitter

poison to the soul than the sweetness I loved
With such idolatry ! Well does our Saviour
warn us against it."

He spoke all this with quiet anguish,
straight from his heart, his manuscript being
closed ; while at this point tears came and
dimmed the blue lustre of his large deep
eyes, and coursed quietly and unheeded down
his cheeks. The congregation still listened
with wide-eyed wonder, not knowing how to
take these extraordinary utterances, and half
suspecting that they were the victims of some
stage effect. But the premier's face wore a
startled gaze, and he looked round uneasily.
The idea suddenly entered his head, that his
recent elevation and the strenuously toilsome
life he led had been too much for the dean,
and driven him mad. Nor was he alone in
his belief, which was shared by the dean's
doctor amongst others.

The bishop was terribly moved, and half
doubtful whether it would not be well to persuade
the preacher to leave the pulpit as
quietly as possible ; he too thought the dean

mad, and trembled lest the gossip his own
son had repeated might have driven his
sensitive organization off its balance. Tears
sprang to his eyes, and he loathed himself for
the petty feelings he had suffered to enter his
heart that very day.

What I confess now, in the presence of
God and of this congregation, against whom
I have sinned," continued the preacher, " I
shall confess shortly before the civil tribunals
of this land, the laws of which I have broken.
Nineteen years ago, when in deacon's orders,
I led an innocent young woman astray."
Here his voice broke with a heavy sob. " I
was the tempter — I, who fell because I
deemed myself above temptation. My
brothers, since then I have not had one
happy hour. Mark that, you who perchance
stand on the verge of transgression. But
that is not all. With a heart still stained
with that iniquity, which I vainly tried to
expiate by bodily penance, I took upon mein
this very cathedral, the awful responsibilities
of the priesthood, and fell into new
temptation.

The father of this poor girl discovered my
iniquity, and, justly angered, fell upon me
with violence. In the struggle, I know not
how, I killed him. Yes, my brothers, look
upon me with the honest scorn you must feel
when you hear that these hands, which have
broken the bread of life and sprinkled the
waters of healing, are red with the blood of
the man I wronged. But even that is not
the full measure of my iniquity. I had a
friend ; I loved him — I loved him, 1 tell
you," he echoed passionately, " more than
any mortal man. He was a man of noble
character and spotless life ; he had gifts
which gave promise of a glorious and beneficent
career. Suspicion fell upon him
through my fault, but not my deliberate
fault. He was tried for my crime, found
guilty, and sentenced to twenty years' penal
servitude."

Here the preacher trembled exceedingly,
and was obliged to pause, while people
looked from one to another with horror-stricken
eyes and blanched faces, and the

very air seemed to palpitate with their agitation.
'* Two days ago," continued the unhappy
man, " he came, fresh from the prison,
to worship in this holy place. I was preaching
— I, the traitor, the hypocrite ; I who
had lived in palaces while the friend of my
youth pined in the prison I had deserved —
I saw him; I recognized him through all
the terrible changes that awful misery had
wrought upon him. I could not bear the
sight, and fled from it like another Cain.
But I did not even then repent.

My , brothers, this man wrote to me and
forgave me, and that broke my stony heart.
The Almighty had called me by heavy
sorrows through many years to repentance,
but I repented not until I was forgiven. The
All-merciful did not leave me alone in my
wickedness. I saw the wife of my youth
pine away before my eyes, and my children
fade one by one till my home became a
desolation, and yet I sinned on, deadening
my conscience by continual opiates of subtlest
sophistry. It is not for me to detail these ;

to say how I persuaded myself that my gifts
were needed in the ministry of the Church ;
that I was bound to sacrifice all, even conscience,
to the sacred calling, and such-like.
Blind was I, blind with pride and self-love.
Nay, I refused even to look my sin in the
face. I stifled memory ; I never realized
what I had done until the awful moment of
revelation, when I stood eye to eye with the
friend I betrayed. My dear brothers, have
you ever thought what years of penal
servitude must mean to a gentleman, a man
of refined feelings, of intellectual tastes, of
unusual culture ? To be herded with the
vicious, the depraved, the brutal, the defective
or degraded organizations which swell the
mass of crime in our land ; to be cut off from
all other human intercourse, all converse with
the world of intellect and culture ; to pass
weary, weary years in fruitless manual toil
and pining captivity ; to wear the garb of
shame ; to be subject to rough and uneducated
and not always kindly gaolers " — here something
choked his utterance for awhile — " to

know no earthly hope ; to see the long
vista of twenty years' monotonous misery
stretching remorselessly ahead, and all this
in the flower of youth and the blossom-time
of life ? From six and twenty to six and
forty ! Can you grasp what that means ?
This, and more than this, I inflicted on the
friend who loved and trusted me ; and of this
I declare before God and man I repent, and
desire as far as possible to amend.

In a few days I shall be in a felon's cell.
I shall be happier there than I have ever
been in the brightest moments of my prosperity.
My brothers, I still bear a divine
commission to warn and teach ; 1 beseech
you to heed my story and take warning.
Let me be to you as the sunken vessel which
marks the treacherous reef beneath the wave !
Listen and heed well what I say, as it were,
with dying breath, for I shall be civilly dead,
virtually dead, in twelve hours' time. I
repent, and there is mercy for me as for the
vilest ; but I can never undo the consequences
of my sins — never, though I strove through

all the endless ages of eternity. I cannot
restore honour and innocence to her whom
I robbed of these priceless jewels. I cannot
give back his life to him whose blood I shed.
I cannot recall the years of youth, and hope,
and health, and power of wide usefulness
which were blasted in the prison of my friend.
It were rash to say that the Almighty cannot
do these things ; it is certain He cannot
without disordering the whole scheme of
human life, certain that He will not. How
far the human will can frustrate the divine
purposes has never been revealed to mortal
man — is probably unknown to the wisdom of
seraphs ; but this we know, that nothing can
happen without divine permission. It maybe
that man's will is absolutely free with
regard to thought, and only limited with
regard to action, to its effects upon others.
Certain it is, that God can bring good out of
evil, and that those who trust in Him, however
oppressed and afflicted by the wickedness
of their fellow-men, will nevertheless be
delivered in ail their afflictions, and that to

them ' all things work for good.' These are
my last words, dear brothers. Ponder them,
I beseech you, as men ponder dying words,
even of the vilest."

The dean ceased, and, turning, as usual, to
the east, repeated the ascription with humble
reverence. He then turned once more to the
congregation, and seated himself, with a sigh
of exhaustion ; while the bishop, whose eyes
were full of tears, stood with uplifted hand
and pronounced the benediction, in a moved
and awe-stricken voice, upon the agitated,
half-terrified multitude, and upon the unheeding
ears of the dean.

As this strange discourse proceeded, the
excitement of the congregation had waxed
higher and higher, and spread itself by the
irresistible contagion of sympathy which
exists in a vast assembly. The prevalent idea
was that the dean was mad. Many people
present had heard the story of his youth, and
knew how bitter had been his sorrow for his
friend's disgrace, and it was not unnatural to
suppose that long brooding upon this early

grief lead, in a moment of mental aberration,
worked itself into the hallucination that he
was himself the doer of the crime which had
wrought such sorrow.

In spite of the rumours circulated so
swiftly within the last few days, there were
not many who believed the dean's accusations
against himself. All were, however, immensely
relieved when the painful scene was
ended. Women had become hysterical, and
some had fainted and been carried out ; the
choristers were mostly pale with affright ;
the clergy were dismayed, and whispered
together about the expediency of putting an
end to this painful exhibition. Among the
few who took the sermon seriously was the
clergyman who had heard the death-bed
statement of Alma Judkins. This man
heard, and trembled and wept.

The prayer after the blessing was ended,
the congregation rose from their knees, the
organ broke forth in melodious thunders, and
the choir began their slow and orderly procession
as usual. But the dean did not

descend from the pulpit and take his usual
place in the rear of the clergy, and the
bishop, thinking he must be ill, directed a
verger to go and offer him help. The man,
excited and overstrained as he was by the
strong feelings stirred up by that strange
discourse, ascended the stairs and spoke
softly to the dean, who had not moved
from his marble composure. There was no
answer.

A cry burst from the man's lips, and rang
above the rolling organ harmonies to the
very ends of the long aisles. A scene of
extraordinary confusion ensued. The congregation,
unnerved and excited as they
were, ran tumultuously hither and thither ;
the choir broke from their ranks, and
clustered about the pulpit steps like a flock of
fluttered doves ; the music stopped abruptly,
with a harsh discord, for the pupil who was
working the stops, looking down to discover
the cause of the strange tumult, cried, " The
dean is dead," and the organist sprang from
his seat with a cry of sorrow.

The lowered the lifeless form from the
pulpit, and laid it upon the altar steps. Some
surgeons — the dean's own doctor amongst
them — sprang through the crowd, and pronounced
the dean to be beyond all human
aid ; and following them came a tall youth,
dark eyed, and dressed in black.

"Not dead! not dead! Oh, my father!"
he sobbed ; " and I helped to break his heart !
Oh, my father ! "

Him they hurried away unobserved, and
the bishop's clarion voice, a voice now without
a rival, rang through the confused tumult,
full of indignation and sharp rebuke. He bid
the people return to their places, and consider
the sanctity of the spot ; and when he
was silently obeyed, he told them that the
dean's soul had fled, and asked them to kneel
and repeat the Commendatory Prayer, while
the body was borne from the spot. He made
a sign to the organist, who, blinded with
tears, resumed his seat, and thundered out
the heart-shaking anguish of the " Funeral
March," while at the same moment the heavy

VOL. III. Q

sound of the deep-toned knell boomed slowly
over the startled sunshiny city.

For a brief moment the bishop knelt
silently by the lifeless form, which lay like a
sacrifice upon the altar step, and, making the
holy sign, he closed the beautiful eyes that
would never more flash their electric radiance
of passion and intellect upon the listening
multitude ; he folded the lifeless hands upon
the heart which had just broken in the stress
of its awful anguish ; and, taking a fold of the
surplice, he laid it over the marble face and
the eloquent lips which would never more
charm with their golden music. Just as
Cyril shielded the unsuspected passions which
convulsed his face from the public gaze after
his son's baptism, the bishop shielded the
passionless quiet of his features now.

Then the choir paced out in their usual
order, save that the dean was borne by some
of the choristers, all of whom loved him, and
were eager to render him this last service ;
and thus, to the wailing music and heavy
thunders of the great dirge, and the deep

boorainof of the cathedral knell, amid the
unwonted tears of his brother-priests, and of
nearly all who bore office in the cathedral,
from the organist, whose tears dropped upon
the keys as he played, and asked, " When
shall we see such another ? " to the man who
rang the knell — Cyril Maitland was carried
out into the same warm afternoon sunshine
that was gilding the Malbourne belfry, and
shining on the honest faces of those who were
biting Everard welcome after his long exile,
and offering him the simple homage of their
belief in his innocence.

How are the mighty fallen ! the beauty
of Israel is slain upon the high places ! "
mourned the bishop, silently, in the words of
David over his fallen foe and friend — words
which echoed through the hearts of the other
clergy, as they escorted their dean for the
last time from the sanctuary.

CHAPTER X.

Still unconscious of the tragedy that was
being enacted to its close in Belminster
Cathedral that sunny summer afternoon, the
little family circle at Malbourne finished the
quiet and holy day as they had l:)egun it, and,
retiring early to rest, slept such calm and
refreshing slumbers as visit the gentle and
the good.

Lilian's last thought on sleeping and first
on waking was for Cyril, and how she might
help to heal his sorely stricken soul, while
the dreadful certainty which had followed on
lier long suspense and doubt on the subject of
his guilt, though it filled' her with deep
sorrow, yet brought the calm which never
fails to accompany certainty, however terrible.

She was vein quiet at breakfast next morning,

and Mr. Maitland, observing this, attributed
it to the reaction following on the
excitement of the last few days, and was
more cheery and chatty than usual to makeup
for her silence.

Mark Antony, like other invalids, was
always very shaky of a morning, and declined
this day to rise for his breakfast ; so a saucer
of milk was placed by his padded basket on
the sunny window-sill, but remained untouched.


The creature looked up in response to the
caressing hand and voice of his mistress, and
purred faintly, but turned away his head from
the proffered milk ; and, after coaxing him,
and offering him everything she could think
of, Lilian was about to leave her pet to rest
and recover strength in the sunshine, when
her retreating figure was stayed by a faint
mew, and, turning, she saw the poor little
thing staggering from its bed, and trying to
follow her.

She ran back in time to catch the little
body as it tottered and fell, and, with a loving

glance and one soft attempt at a purr, lay
limp and lifeless in her hands.

Oh, Henry ! " she cried, the hot tears
raining from her eyes, '' my pretty Mark ! "

I could have better spared a better cat ! "
said Mr. Maitland.

No cat ever had a pleasant life, or an
easier death," said Everard, stroking the
inanimate fur. " I will bury him for you,
Lilian. Let us choose a pretty spot at once."

And they went into the garden, Everard
procuring a spade and setting to work with
a practised ease that reminded Lilian of his
long years of hard labour, on the flower-border
beneath the window, on the sill of
which the deceased had spent so many sunny
hours in peaceful meditation upon the follies
of mankind and the wisdom of the feline race.

The grave had been properly dug, and
Everard laid the cat in it, and having covered
him with a verdant shroud, reminded Lilian
that mourners always turned from the grave
before the painful ceremony of shovelling in
the earth was performed ; and Lilian was

obeying tins suggestion, when she discovered
the hitherto unnoticed presence of a messenger,
who handed her a telegram.

She took it without suspicion, and delayed
opening it until she had spoken a kindly
word to the messenger, and directed the
gardener to take him to the kitchen for rest
and refreshment.

If he had not caused me such bitter pain,"
she said, turning to Henry, and referring to
the cat, while she broke open the envelope,
I should not have loved him half so
much."

'' Dear old Mark ! We shall not look
upon his like again. He did indeed give the
world assurance of a cat."

He was not looking at Lilian, but into the
grave, and was startled by a low cry of
intense agony, and, looking up, saw her
stagger with blanched face against the
mullion of the window, where the roses
bloomed round her head.

My poor, poor boy ! " she cried gaspingly.

Everard dropped the spade and came to

her assistance, and she gave the paper with
the terrible tidings into his hand.

The dean died yesterday afternoon in the
cathedral," was the brief, stern announcement.

My father, oh, my father ! how shall we
shield him?" cried Lilian, recovering her
feet, but trembling all over. " I always open
his telegrams to spare him."

Everard said nothing, but crushed the
paper fiercely in his pocket, while from the
force of old habit he took his spade again and
completed his task, no longer careful to spare
Lilian's feelings, but stamping the earth
resolutely down, and planting the displaced
flowers upon it. Then he threw the spade
aside with a deep groan.

If he could but have spoken to me once,
only once ! " he said.

He got your letter, dear," said Lilian,
in her usual tones, though her white lips
quivered, and she still shook all over ; " there
is comfort in that."

Yes, he must have got it. He could not
have been too ill to read it. * In the cathedral.'

Oil, Lilian, he might have died that night !
There was probably some heart disease.
What did he think of his seizures ? "

Mere nervous excitement. He did not
consider himself ill. He had advice. Oh,
Henry, my father ! "

It will be a blow."

It will kill him ! He is feebler than you
think. How can he bear this ? "

Dearest," said Everard, with infinite
tenderness, " it is but death, remember. He
might have heard worse tidings."

My poor Cyril ! — yes. If we could only
bear the consequences of bur misdeeds alone,
each in his own person, how much less
sorrowful life would be ! "

And how much less joyous, Lilian ! Ah,
my dear, this must be faced, and we must take
what comfort we can ! "

Then they took counsel together, and
decided upon assuming that the dean was
very ill, and that they were summoned to
him at once. They could then accustom Mr.
Maitland's mind gradually to the loss, and

extinguish hope by degrees until they arrived
at Belminster, when it would no longer be
possible to cherish any doubt.

Everard took upon himself the piteous task
of breaking the news, while Lilian made
hurried preparations for their departure. He
went with a beating heart to the study door,
and knocked, and then it came like lightning
across him that he had so gone to that
room eighteen years ago, to receive, and not
to give, ill tidings.

When the gentle priest lifted his whitehead
with a pleasant smile from the book
over which he was bending, he could not but
think of the awful look with which he had
greeted him on his last entrance, nor could
he quite forget the bitter injustice done to him
then for Cyril's sake. It seemed a terrible
retribution for the guileless man, whose only
fault was too great a pride in his gifted son.
Everard felt as if his heart would break. He
could not speak, but sat down and burst into
tears, the only tears shed for Cyril in his
home. The fact that he, and no other, had

to deal the aged father this cruel blow, on th
very spot where so cruel a blow had been dealt
him through that dead man's fault, seemed
an awful coincidence.

Mr. Maitland's face changed ; he was ina
mood to anticipate calamity, but he took it
very gently.

'' Is it Lilian ? " he asked, in a faint voice.

Everard shook his head.

'' Not, oh, not Ci/ril ! " faltered the old
man, with a piteous accent, which showed
where his heart was naost vulnerable.

He is ill, sir," returned Everard ;
seriously ill."

Then he told him of the arrangements they
had made for going at once to Belminster,
and offered what assistance was needed.

Mr. Maitland said nothing, but rose to do
as he was bid, with a touching acquiescence,
but very feeble movements. He seemed to
age ten years at least before Everard's pitying
gaze, and was apparently unequal to the
task of doing anything in preparation for his
absence from his duties.

They drove into Oldport just in time to
catch the train, and Everard and Lilian
trembled for the poor father as they passed
the flaring posters which announced the contents
of the daily papers, and read in great
capitals, " Sudden Death of the Dean of
Belminster."

But Mr. Maitland did not appear to see them ;
he was bewildered and pre-occupied in his
manner, and asked only one question, " Did
Cyril himself send for him ? " and, appearing
crushed by the negative answer, made no
further observation upon passing events. He
talked much in a wandering way of bygone
days, and related old forgotten events of Cyril's
childhood, surprising Lilian by vivid reminiscences
that were dim or quite faded in her
memory, and laughing gently from time to
time at the child's quaint sayings and little
drolleries of long ago.

^' They were twins," he said, addressing
Lib* an, as if she were a stranger, " A boy and
a girl — such a pretty pair, and so good and
clever! Exactly alike, and so fond of each

other — so fond of each other ! Poor dears ! "
he added, shaking his white head sorrowfully,
'* drowned before their father's eyes — before
his very eyes."

'' Oh, Henry ! " murmured Lilian, in a
choked voice, *' what shall we do ? He
wanders ; he confuses us with Cyril's
twins."

Do not excite him ; it is only temporary,"
Henry whispered back.

Always a good son — a good son ! " continued
the stricken father, not observing their
comments ; " my son, the Dean of Belminster.
Do you know," he added, with a pleasant
smile, " he has been offered the Bishopric of
Warham ? "

Yes, dear father," replied Lilian, soothingly
; '' but he is very, very ill."

111 ? " he returned, with a troubled look ;
"not Cyril? He did everything well. A
gifted youth. Little Lilian was so like him."

Dear heather," said Lilian, when the last
station before Belminster was passed, " Cyril
can never recover."

"Is that true, Henry ? " he asked, turnings
sharply to Everard.

'rit is too true, sir," he replied gently.
Try to be calm ; we shall be at Belminster in
five minutes."

The old man looked about him in a hopeless,
bewildered manner, and tried to speak,
but his trembling lips refused utterance.
Lilian caressed him, and spoke soothingly to
him, as if to some frightened child. " Cyril
is gone to his rest, dear," she said at last, her
voice breaking as she spoke.

'ris he — dead?" he asked, with great
difficulty ; and Lilian replied in the affirmative,
and he smiled a gentle smile that went
to their very hearts, and said nothing more.

They drove through the city and into the
close, in the sunny, slumbrous noon, past the
red-brick houses, looking blank in the sunshine,
with their white blinds darkening the
windows ; beneath the great leafy elms, over
which some rooks were sailing ; past the
hoary fragment of cloister, along which two
clergymen were pacing, and talking with

bated breath of yesterday's tragedy ; beneath
the cool shadow of the great grey minster,
whose vaulted roof and long aisles had
scarcely ceased to thrill with the passionate
anguish of Cyril's breaking heart, and round
whose lofty pinnacles swallows were sweeping
in the warm, blue air; and drew up before the
pointed arches of the silent Deanery, the door
of which opened noiselessly and discovered a
weeping figure ready to receive them.

Before they could respond to Miss Mac-kenzie's
greeting, Everard was obliged to call
Lilian's attention to her father, who had to be
lifted from the carriage and taken at once to
bed, where he remained for many days in a
lethargic condition.

There would be no inquest, Miss Mackenzie
informed them, the death being perfectly
natural and accounted for by the disease from
which his medical adviser, as well as the dean,
had long known him to be suffering — a disease
which might still have permitted him years
of life and strength under favourable conditions.
His children had not been sent for,

as, under the very painful circumstances, Miss
Mackenzie could not undertake the responsibility
of summoning them.

'* Painful circumstances ? " asked Lilian,
whose marble-white features showed scarcely
more life than those of the brother over whose
corpse she had just been bending in tearless,
speechless sorrow, whose features indeed
looked more like those of the dean than
ever.

Miss Mackenzie having turned the key in
the door to ensure uninterrupted privacy, sat
down in the darkened chamber, and, saying
that Dr. Everard was better calculated than
any one else to judge of the accuracy of what
she was about to relate, told them that it was
the general opinion that the dean had been
visited by temporary insanity while in the
pulpit the day before — an opinion, however,
which was not shared by the doctor. Then,
beginning with the dean's unwonted demeanour
on the Saturday, and the abrupt
manner in which he sent his children away,
she related the whole story of the last Sunday,

and the substance of the extraordinary sermon
he had delivered with his dying breath.

LiHan listened quietly without any interrogation
whatever ; but when Miss Mackenzie
came to the dying man's terrible confession,
her marble stillness left her, and she burst
into tears and wept silently till the end of
the story, murmuring, under her breath,
"Thank God! oh, thank God!" She felt
that her brother was in some measure restored
to her by his penitence.

The dean's affairs were in perfect order ; he
had made every preparation for death. The
bishop was co-executor with Lilian, of a will
he had made some time previously, by which
he left half his property to Henry Everard,
and the other half to his two children, under
the trusteeship of Lilian, till they should be
of age, when the boy, in consideration of his
infirmity, was to receive two-thirds of the
children's moiety, and the girl one.

Certain legacies were to be deducted from
the whole amount of his property ; and, by a
codicil, added on the day before his death,

VOL. m. R

there was to be a farther deduction of five
hundred pounds, which was bequeathed to
Benjamin Lee, only son of Alma Judkins,
widow, formerly of Swaynestone, and lately
deceased in Belminster." The said Benjamin
Lee was further recommended to the interest
and protection of " my beloved twin-sister,
Lilian Maitland."

The terms of this testament were as yet
unknown to any one except the solicitor and
the bishop, who had that morning acquainted
himself with them. He had made this early
inquisition into the dean's temporal affairs inconsequence
of finding in the study a sealed
packet addressed to himself, as executor, " Incase
of my death before I have time to lay it
before the magistrates myself," dated on the
day before his death, duly signed and witnessed,
and containing a full and detailed
account of the death of Benjamin Lee, " to be
read immediately after my death, that justice
may be done as soon as possible to those I
have wronged."

The bishop, who had with natural reluctance

undertaken the management of the dean's
affairs only upon his earnest solicitation, and
under the consideration that in the course of
nature the dean would outlive him, now
wished most heartily that he had had
sufficient strength of mind to resist his importunity
on the subject. He wished it
doubly when, on that very morning, the
clergyman who had heard Alma's confession,
and taken it down at her request in writing,
to which she affixed her signature, confided
the circumstances to him, and asked his advice
upon the subject.

Both the bishop and Mr. Strickland had
separately hesitated to publish the dead man's
disgrace, though the latter had been solemnly
charged to do so by the dying Alma, and
summoned to her death-bed for the express
purpose of clearing Everard. The bishop,
even after reading the written confession, still
held to the theory of insanity ; but, after the
coincidence of the two independent confessions,
there was no longer any room for doubt, and
he felt it his duty to communicate at once

with the Everard family, and take instant
steps towards clearing Henry Everard's
character, which he did accordingly. Nevertheless,
Mr. Strickland was glad to share the
responsibility with him.

But of this Miss Mackenzie, of course, knew
nothing, and without had enough to tell her
auditors. She ended by putting into Lilian's
hands a report taken in shorthand of the
dean's last sermon, which Henry and Lilian
perused together.

Everard passed a long, long time alone in
the presence of the dead. When he entered
the silent, shadowed chamber, from which the
summer airs were excluded, and across the
gloom of which one or two long golden rays
of sunshine strayed through unguarded chinks,
and where the air was heavy with that indescribable
something that we dare not name,
and laden with the rich perfume of flowers,
he stood still, with a spasm at his heart, and
feared to raise the handkerchief from the veiled
face.

And when at last he found courage to

gaze upon the beautiful and placid features,
pale with the awful pallor that only comes
when the spirit has flown, he, who had
looked upon death in the course of everyday
duty so often and under so many painful
circumstances, realized for the first time
the icy horror and irreconcilable enmity
of death. A sharp pain, like the contraction
of iron wires, clutched at his eyes,
which filled with those scalding tears that
do not fall or give relief, and only spring;
once or twice in life from the very deepest
sources in our nature ; and for a few moments
he would have given all that remained to
him of life for one friendly glance of the
beautiful ever-darkened eyes, one clasp of
the pale, cold hands ; to hear those mute lips
open once more with the cordial warmth
of bygone days. " Old Hal ! " he fancied he
heard him say, as on the fatal day when last
they met as friends.

The quiet features never moved from their
marble calm, and yet to the living friend's
fancy the lights of mirth, of intellect, of

affection, seemed to play upon them as in their
bygone youth, and the sacred flame of high
aspiration, holy and pure passion, seemed
to fire them. Old jests, old sayings, things
grave and gay, earnest and light-hearted,
rushed rapidly back upon his memory. He
saw Cyril a boy again — a child with a seraphic
face, and a half-piteous look of frailty and
dependence, combined with intellectual power;
he saw him a youth full of high hopes and
warm enthusiasms, brilliant, generous, fascinating,
and, above all, pure.

He saw him in his young manhood, a being
so saintly that his very presence seemed to
banish the possibility of unholy thought; a
lover, the purity of whose ardent love seemed
almost to rebuke passion ; a scholar, a priest :
he thought of his many gifts and attainments,
and all the . beautiful promise of his early
manhood. In such a nature, weaknesses and
errors, the common heritage of humanity,
might be expected; but there was an incredible
horror in the thought that this man
was stained with vice and crime. Surely,

Ev^erard thought, as he had thought so many
times in the loneliness of his cell, such things
were utterly alien to this pure and noble
nature, and utterly alien and incongruous
they were. Surely, if there were a soul
fitted to resist the importunity of man's lower
nature, here was one ; and here indeed was
one.

Then he recalled the anguish of Cyril's
words — almost the last he ever spoke to him —
"Henry, I am a 7na7i! " and reflected that to
a human being there is no moral descent impossible.
Yet from what a height had this
man fallen 1 And what a career he might
have had, who now lay dead of a broken
heart before him ; and what anguish unspeakable
might have been spared to others, had
this gifted and noble nature had the courage
to be true to itself ! He thought of the terrific
strength of those master-passions, ambition,
pride, and self-love, in that otherwise weak
soul, and shuddered.

They had thrown a rich Indian cloth over
the library table, and upon this they had laid

the dean, robed again as he had been at the
moment of his death. The still room, with its
studious gloom and its rows of learned tomes of
divinity, was decked with flowers, and wreaths
and bouquets covered the feet of the dead,
and lay upon the outer folds of the white
robe. In the pale hands Lilian had placed
some blood-red roses, which she had brought
from Mai bourne, plucked from two trees they
planted on their twenty-first birthday — an
unacknowledged instinct made her shrink
from the white flowers so usual in the death-chamber
— and these and the scarlet doctor's
hood gave a strange lustre to the solemn
scene, and strongly emphasized the Parian
whiteness of the face and hands. Those who
saw Cyril die had seen the agony pass from
his face, which was, as it were, transfigured
at the close of his sermon by a look of ineffable
serenity, a look that never left it. The
dead face was that of the young ideal Cyril
of Henry's youth, the man his Maker intended
him to be ; the man he ever lived
afterwards in his friend's thoughts. Both

features and expression now had the strong
likeness to Lilian's which had been so marked
in their childhood.

The door of the silent chamber was opened
more than once that afternoon, and softly
closed again, unnoticed by Henry ; and those
who thus forbore to intrude on his grief never
forgot the scene — the dead man lying in his
awful quiet like some sculptured effigy on a
tomb, but not more statuesque than the
living friend seated in the chair by his side,
facing him, with his grey head supported on
his hand, and his eyes rivetted upon the
unseeing face.

Pleasant summer sounds of bird and insect,
and even the far-off laughter of children, fell
deadened upon the hushed silence of that
darkened room ; the silvery cadences of the
cathedral chimes entered it from time to time,
and at the hour of evensong the distant
thunder of organ-music broke solemnly upon
its calm.

The lines of straying sunshine stole slowly
from point to point; once the end of a

broken shaft fell upon the pale hands and
gilded the edge of a paper clasped in the
unconscious fingers — Everard knew that it
was his own letter which had been so clasped
at the moment of death, and which those
who found it in the nerveless hand, on
seeing, had again shut in the stiffening clasp
the wavering shadows of leaves and boughs
played in varying dance over the closed
blinds of the casements ; hour after hour
went by, and the living man seemed to
change into the semblance of the still form
he gazed upon.

He thought many, many thoughts, such as
no words can express, and experienced feelings
such as no speech may render — thoughts
which arise only when the intellect is
quickened by the stir of unwonted feeling ;
thoughts of life and its deep meaning, death
and its dark mystery ; of the strangeness of
man's destiny ; of the purpose of his being ;
of the limits of human will, and of the
eternal consequences of human action ; of
the glory and beauty of moral rectitude,

and the nothingness of all human achievement
besides.

Through all his thoughts there ran the
deep, strong undercurrent of unutterable
pity for the man who lay before him, slain
in his prime by the pain of his own misdoing,
and, blended with that, there was also
a thankfulness that his agony was stilled at
last, and his soul at rest. He recognized the
righteousness of the feeling which prompted
Cyril to his tardy confession, and knew that
no life save that imprisoned and degraded
one from which he had but just escaped
would have been possible to him. He
thought of the iron strength of this man's
pride and self-love, and wondered at the
mystery of human iniquity.

He mused on his own passionate and lifelong
devotion to the man who had so terribly
injured him, a devotion that neither his
weakness nor even his crime could destroy,
and he asked himself what it was in Cyril
that so enchained not only the best and
deepest affections of his friends, but also the

love of all those with whom he came in
contact.

It seemed to him that there must be some
deep and enduring virtue in a man who
wins such love and devotion ; it appeared
incredible that the affections of honest hearts
should be wasted on what is utterly worthless.


He reflected how he could best serve the
dead. He saw that he had been wrong in
aiding him to conceal his past — that nothing
but truth can serve any human being; and
it seemed to him that he might fulfil those
duties he had left undone, and carry on those
that death had interrupted. He thought
especially of Alma's neglected child.

He could not rid himself of the strong
feeling we have in the presence of the dead,
that the spirit is hovering about its forsaken
shrine, and is conscious of the thoughts we
cherish, and it seemed to him that the dead lips
smiled approval of his resolution. He mused
upon the unfinished letter found upon Cyril's
writing-table, and dated on the day of his

death — " Dear Henry, your noble letter has
broken my heart," and he felt, as in his
ardent youth, that he could go through fire
and water for this man.

He thought of old that Cyril's character
contained the eivig weihliche element Goethe
prized. He was wrong ; that saving ingredient
was in his own manlier nature, not
in the weak Cyril's.

Through all his long reverie he did not
stir from his statue-like calm ; nothing in
the still chamber marred the quiet which is
the homage we pay to that silent terror,
death. His very breath seemed stilled in the
intensity of his abstraction *, he did not seethe
shifting of the sunbeams, the gradual
drooping of the flowers, the fall of petal after
petal, nor did he hear the recurrent chime-music,
though years afterwards these things
recalled the solemn thoughts of that long
vigil.

The air was cool and refreshing, and the
slanting sunbeams were dyeing the minster
towers a clear wine-like crimson, when his

long reverie was broken at last by the
entrance of Cyril's orphan children.

Then he rose, greeted them affectionately,
and, bidding them look on him as their father
now, he left them alone with their dead.

CHAPTER XI.

EvERARD closed the door softly behind him,
and went into the hall with a solemn radiance
on his face, and was about to ascend the
staircase to inquire into Mr. Maitland's condition,
when he was met by a gentleman
with a benign and intellectual face and a
dignified bearing.

Dr. Everard," he said, in a rich, deep
voice, " allow me the honour of shaking-hands
with a man whose noble conduct has
perhaps saved a human soul. I am the
Bishop of Belminster," he added, "the late
dean's executor and friend, and am entrusted
by him with the duty of clearing your
character from the imputations which have
lain so long upon it."

And, leading him into the study, where

the evidences of the dean's daily occupations
and the empty chair by the table, on which
lay his unfinished tasks, spoke more pathetically
of his death than his quiet form itself,
the bishop acquainted him briefly with all
that the reader knows already concerning the
will, the written confession, and Alma's
death-bed depositions. Having done this, heled
him to the drawing-room, which vas
flushed through its closed blinds with the
glory of the summer sunset, and introduced
him to his brothers, Keppel and George, and
his sister, Mrs. Whiteford, who were waiting
to receive him, Keppel having brought the
children from Portsmouth.

They greeted him with cordial affection,
and many expressions of regret and contrition
for their long injustice ; and Keppel introduced
him to Lady Everard, to whom he had
been married after his brother's disgrace.

Henry was glad, though he could not but
feel the meeting extremely painfuL especially
under Cyril's roof. The bishop had considerately
withdrawn on presenting him, and,

after the first confused expressions of welcome,
regret, and congratulation, the relatives
scarcely knew what to say to each other until
Henry at last expressed a hope that all
knowledge of Cyril's share in Benjamin Lee's
death might be spared his children, which all
agreed, if possible, to do.

Admiral Sir Keppel and the Eev. George,
though both some years older than Henry,
looked younger ; neither had a grey hair,
and both were fine, handsome, robust men.
They were much distressed at the marks
of hardship and suffering upon him, and
Mrs. Whiteford wept and blamed herself
greatly for allowing her husband to dissuade
her from communicating with him in
his trouble.

*• You must pay us a long visit, Hal," said
Keppel. " We have a nice place near Eye,
and the children will take you about in their
boat, and make you young again."

And you must certainly come to us,"
added George ; " my wife told me to bring
you home this very night. Our place is

vol. III. S

very healthily situated on the hill yonder,
just outside Belminster."

And to us," added Mrs. Whiteford. " My
husband wants you to go for a cruise with
us. That will recruit your health, if anything
will."

'' Ah, Henry, I can sympathize with you ! "
said George, with deep solemnity. " I know
what a prison is like. I had a twelvemonth,
the effects of which I am still feeling," he
added, with a sigh of intense enjoyment.

'* You had a twelvemonth ? " inquired
Henry, scanning his solemn clerical brother
from head to foot with astonishment.

You may well look surprised," said
Keppel, " and wonder what parsons have todo
with the inside of a gaol."

I have experienced the honour of persecution,
Henry," explained George, with deep
satisfaction. " The rigours of my captivity
were greatly softened by the sympathy of
faithful people."

'' Rigours indeed ! " growled Keppel. " The
beggar was in clover, and almost on his

parole. But, as I tell George, he would
have got double the time, and been cashiered
into the bargain, if I had been in command."


But, my dear George," asked Henry,
*' what were you persecuted for ? and how
could you be imprisoned ? I thought the fires
of Smithfield, the memory of which you used
to be so fond of recalling, were extinguished
centuries ago."

You are mistaken, Henry," returned
George, in his gruffest bass. " In the seclusion
of your dungeon you have been spared
even the knowledge of the awful evils we in
the world have been called upon to face.
Never was the enemy of mankind more active
than in these latter evil days. The Catholic
Church is beleaguered by all the powers of
darkness, and those of her priests who dare
to be faithful are hurled into dungeons."

"The Catholic Church ? Why, I thought
you were one of the strongest pillars of Protestantism,
and renounced the scarlet woman
and all her works ? I am glad to see that

persecution and dungeons have not permanently
damaged you."

Keppel remembered the solemn tenant of
the near chamber in time to stifle a burst of
laughter, while George looked embarrassed,
and stammered a good deal.

*' Ah, Henry ! " he replied, " you are thinking
of twenty years ago, when I was in the
depths ; I have advanced greatly since then'*

•' You don't mean to say you are a
Ritualist ? " asked Henry, eyeing his brother's
sacerdotal appearance with affectionate amusement.


My dear Henry," said Keppel, interrupting
George's disclaimer of this term, " that
fellow is the Ritualist, the ringleader of them
all. What the service would come to if
mutineers were let down as lightly as he is,
Heaven only knows. Persecution indeed ! "

Henry smiled. " How this would have
amused Cyril ! " he said involuntarily. " No,
George ; I am not mocking," he added, in
response to a pained look on his brother's
face ; for, as he learnt subsequently, Cyril had

been wont to tease his reverend brother a
good deal on the extreme to which he had
veered from his ultra-Protestant opinions.
*'If you think it your duty to differ from
your bishop, every one must honour you forgoing
to prison about it. But your tenets
used to be so very extreme in the other
direction. Tell me about your children."

Every effort was made to keep Cyril's
funeral as private as possible, but in vain.
Lilian, who was co-executor with the bishop,
had so much to occupy her in her father's
illness, and her great anxiety to spare Marion
and Everard the slightest suspicion of the
tragedy which killed their father, that she
left the funeral arrangements to the bishop,
only stipulating for extreme privacy. By
some perverse destiny, the bishop misunderstood
her wishes and those of the family,
which were that Cyril's remains should betaken
to Malbourne, and at the last moment
it was discovered that all was arranged for
an interment in the cathedral burial-ground.

Thither, therefore, the dean's remains were
borne by the hands of those who had loved
him and volunteered for this service, and the
mourners, on following their dead into the
cathedral, were dismayed to find it thronged
from end to end by people, who wore mourning,
and many of whom bore wreaths for the
dead. They had feared a curious crowd, but
the majority of this crowd were animated by
something better than curiosity. Those who
accepted the dean's terrible revelations came
to honour his penitence and respect his fallen
estate ; many clergy came in the spirit which
moved his brother-seer to do honour to the
remains of the disobedient prophet.

But the public at large utterly refused all
credence to his guilt, not only at the time of
the funeral, but even after Alma's confession
had been made public. Not a woman in
Belminster, and not many men, held the
golden-mouthed preacher and large-hearted
philanthropist to be guilty. The question was
largely discussed in the press, as well as in
private circles ; instances of similar self-accusations

of half-forgotten crimes by those
whose minds had been consumed by long-brooding
grief and strained by overwork
were cited, and it was the popular opinion
that the dean died in the excitement of a
terrible hallucination.

Flags were floated half-mast high, shops
were shut, and knells were tolled in the city
churches and in some villages on the day of
the funeral. Clergymen came from rural
parishes to pay the last homage to their great
brother ; the Nonconformist ministers, with
whom he had always maintained such pleasant
relations, flocked to the grave of the gifted
and gracious Churchman ; societies and
charitable bodies in which he had taken interest
sent deputations. Most of those who
saw him die were there. In the midst of this
vast concourse, beneath the majestic arches
of the lofty cathedral, amid the dirge-like
thunders of the organ and the mournful
chanting of the full choir, there was a pathetic
simplicity in the plain coffin, followed by its
half-dozen mourners, foremost among whom

showed the silvered head and bowed form of
the friend so deeply wronged by the dead.
Cyril's weeping daughter was on Everard's
arm, and Lilian led his blind son by the
hand ; Ingram Swaynestone and George and
Keppel Everard closed the list of kinsfolk.
But the uninvited mourners were innumerable,
and the tears they shed were many, and not
the least imposing part of the grand and
solemn Burial Service was the immense volume
of human voices, which rose like the sound
of many waters upon the mournful strains of
the funeral hymn.

At the close of the ceremony, Henry's
attention was attracted to a young man who
had pressed gradually nearer and nearer to
the grave, into which he cast a wreath, and
who manifested great emotion, which he
nevertheless tried hard to restrain. There
was something in the handsome face of this
fine young fellow which sent a quiver
through Henry's heart, and startled Lilian
painfully — a something which moved Henry
to accost the young man in the slight confusion

which ensued while the Httle procession
was re-forming.

You appear to he moved, sir," he said, ina
low voice ; " may I ask if you were an
intimate friend of the late dean's ? "

The youth was about to make some reply,
when his gaze was arrested by the sorrowful
glance of Marion, who was upon her uncle's
arm. He stopped, as if in deference to her,
and, instead of replying, took a card from his
pocket and gave it to Everard, who read
upon it, " Benjamin Lee."

That will explain to Dr. Everard," he
said, observing the change upon Everard's
face.

Everard bid him call at the Deanery at a
certain hour, and they had a long interview
in the very room which had witnessed Cyril's
anguish upon seeing his son,

I would give half my life not to have
spoken to him as I did," sobbed the young
fellow. " I don't want to be a gentleman
now, Dr. Everard ; that is all knocked out
of me, I see what ambition did for my poor

father. I heard his last words ; I saw him
die. I only want to do some good in the
world now. I am all alone. I buried my
poor mother yesterday. She died at peace.
She bid me, if ever it lay in my power, to
serve you and yours, remember how much
she injured you, and try to atone for it. It
cost her something to tell me what she had
done to you. But she thought I would make
one more witness."

You shall atone," Everard replied.
^' Look upon me as a friend. I, in my turn,
will try to do for you what he would have
done had he lived. Who knows," he added
musingly, " how far we may be permitted to
make up for each other's shortcomings. If
the one great vicarious sacrifice is so potent,
others ought surely to flow from it and share
its potency."

He sent for Lilian, and from that moment
Benjamin Lee was no longer alone in the
world. She consulted with Henry upon the
young man's capacities and acquirements,
and finally a situation was found for him in

an office in Belminster, Lee having a great
desire to live in the city which had such
solemn associations for him. He also became
subsequently, to his great joy, one of the
choir, and his beautiful voice was daily Hated
in praise and prayer beneath the solemn
arches which had thrilled to his father's
penitential anguish. Marion and Everard
Maitland in time became deeply attached to
him, little dreaming of the tie that existed
between them ; they thought of him only
as a friend and protege of their uncle Henry.

The depositions of the dean, and those
taken by the clergyman at Alma's request,
having been forwarded to the proper quarters,
and corroborated by young Lee's evidence
and that of Everard himself, who was able,
on his examination, to give a satisfactory
account of the manner in which he spent the
afternoon of Lee's death, it became evident to
the authorities that a terrible miscarriage of
justice had occurred. How to repair this
miscarriage was a difficult question, and one
which exercised the mind of the House of

Commons, before which it was laid, in no
small degree. The ticket-of-leave was annulled,
and Everard was declared to be a freeman.
The property he forfeited on his
conviction was restored to him with its
interest. There was some question of offering
him employment under Government, which
was, however, not carried out.

As soon as Everard was formally set free
from the bondage of his ticket-of-leave, Lilian
and he were quietly married.

The drama is played out. The November
afternoon closes in upon the same wide and
varied landscape that Alma Lee saw so many
years ago with innocent eyes and unawakened
heart, all unconscious of the destiny whose
black shadow was even then darkening her
path ; little dreaming of the temptation about
to assail her, and the tragedy in which one
sin was to involve so many lives.

The ancient grey tower, dreaming in the
soft afternoon haze, gives a mellow voice
to the passage of time with its solemn,

sweet chimes ; the slender grace of the
Victorian daughter-tower emulates its hoary
majesty, as it rises above the smoke-canopy
of the little town on the river ; the tiny bays
are visible on the wood-clad horizon ; the flocks
spread on stubble and down ; the cornel is
purple in the ivied hedgerow ; the solemn,
half-conscious silence of the chill grey afternoon
seems laden with an unspoken mystery
it would fain reveal.

the silence grows

To that degree, you half believe
It must get rid of what it knows,
Its bosom does so heave."

The fairy music swells as of old upon the
listening air ; the merry bell-peals blend
and clash in a sweet dissonance, changing
into harmony, like the transient wrangling of
happy lovers ; the heavy rumble and creak
of the broad wheels and stamp of the iron
hoofs make a rough bass burden to the silver
treble of the bells \ and the nodding crests
of the gaily caparisoned waggon-horses rise
into view on the crest of the hill by the gate

over which Alma Lee gazed in her unawakened
youth and thought of harmless
commonplace things in which nothing tragic
had any part.

The sturdy steeds stop, as on that far-off
day, with a gradual dropping of the blithe
bell-music ; the great waggon is brought
to with a rumble and clatter, and cries of
Whip " and " Whoa ; " the drag is cast
under the massive hind-wheel ; and Will
Grove rests, as of old, against the strong
shaft, and gazes over the gate at the still
dreamy landscape, and recalls the day when
Alma's beautiful young face and graceful
form were outlined against such a chill grey
skv as this.

Will is stouter than on that day, and his
limbs move more stiffly and heavily, and
there are grey hairs in his thick beard. He
wears no flower now in his felt hat, which
has lost its rakish cock. He apostrophizes a
sweet, flower-like face, which peeps roguishly
over the waggon ledge at him, with a rough
but kindly, " Bide still, ye bad made ; " and
the bad maid prattles on with cries of

*' Granter," and snatches at his hat ; but he
seems not to heed her, as he thinks of Alma
and her tragic story, which will be related
for years to come in the snug bar of the Sun,
and by many a cottage fireside round.

She were a bad 'un she were ! " he
muses ; and some vague notions of witchcraft
and half-formed shadowy ideas of love-philtres
steal down through many generations to
his uncultured brain, to account for Cyril
Maitland's strange infatuation.

And Alma hides her broken heart in her
lonely far-off grave, just when she should be
living in an honoured prime ; and Cyril's
crushed spirit has rest in his grave, within
sound of the same cathedral chimes. And
how many gracious gifts and joyous possibilities
and noble opportunities are buried
with these two tardily penitent sinners !
Some vague feeling of the pity of it all stirs
Will Grove's heavily moving emotions, as he
cracks his whip and strides onwards, waking
the fairy music of the bells in its blithe and
changing cadences.

There are the Sandstone woods; but
the house presents a blank face, with its
shuttered windows and closed doors, and
no smoke rises from the chimneys, and no
sound is heard about its courts. The Sandstones
are gone abroad for a year or two,
to live down the memory of the dean's
disgrace. And here is Malbourne ; but the
old faces are seen no more in the Rectory.
A stranger preaches from the village pulpit,
and strangers walk in the pleasant garden,
and know nothing of the sweet and tender,
if sad, associations which hallow every tree
and flower. Will Grove and his team go on
their musical way, till the clashing cadences
fade and die in the distance, and the last
gleam of brass-mounted trappings is swallowed
in the evening shadows.

Let us flit on the airy wing of Fancy
southwards, over the dim downs and the grey
murmuring sea ; over the orchards and farms
of Normandy ; across the broad poplar-lined
plains of France, breathing warmer, clearer
air with every breath ; over the airy summits

of the Yosges ; over sunny Cote door, where
the vineyards have just yielded up their
latest spoil, and lie brown and bare in their
winter sleep ; over the green and pine-clad
slopes of the Jura, warm now in the sun's
western glow ; over blue lake and icy Alp,
till we rest on the northern shore of sweet
Lake Leman, and see the solid stone towers
of Chillon reflected in the clear, jewel-like
waters.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XII.

AFTERGLOW.

Not far from Lake Leman's shore at Montreux,
a pretty chalet, girdled round with
the two-storied verandah so usual to Swiss
houses, stands on a terrace among fruit-trees ;
and upon that terrace, in the warm, still air
of the clear November sunset, stood Lilian,
and gazed across the calm blue lake at the
Savoyard Alps, which were already streaked
and veined with snow, and admired the
roseate glow which lighted the seven-peaked
summit of the Dent du Midi as with celestial
fire, thinking over the same tragic tale which
was passing through the memory of the
Malbourne waggoner to the accompaniment
of his blithe bell-music.

The ethereal Alpine glow suggested beautiful
far-off thoughts to LiHan — thoughts of
paradise and the rest of the departed, of the
pardon and sweet peace of the penitent. Cyril
seemed near, very near, to his twin-sister at
such quiet moments, nearer than he had ever
been since the sin which put apart their
lives, so mysteriously entwined by nature.
The tragic scene in the cathedral had restored
him to her as in his stainless youth ; not that
she regarded the anguish which killed him as
any expiation or felt his death to be anything
but a mercy ; he was restored because his
falseness was gone and he was penitent ; and
she felt that their spirits now held mystic
communion sweeter and purer than that of
their guileless childhood, and rejoiced.

She was leaning upon a wheeled chair, as
she gazed upon the exquisite scene before
her, and breathed the soft breath of the
parting day. In the chair sat her white-haired
father, with a happy smile on his
beautiful placid face.

You must go in now, dear," she said, in

the soothing tones we use towards little
children ; " the sun is gone." And she
pushed the chair along the terrace to an
open French window, and led the old man,
who was very feeble, under the verandah
into a bright salon, where a wood fire had
just been kindled on the hearth ; and, placing
him comfortably in an arm-chair by the leaping
blaze, left him with a tender caress to
dream and doze in the gathering twilight.

She paused in the garden to pluck a sweet
late rose and fasten it in the black dress she
wore for Cyril, and then passed, with a light,
swift step, through the gateway into the
dusty high-road, and set her face towards
the Jura, which lay dark against the incandescent
sky of sunset.

She had not gone very far along the
pleasant road towards the warm glory of
the departing day, when her sweet, serene
face, clearly illumined as it was by the
afterglow, suddenly took a new radiance,
and was, as it were, transfigured by such
a look as no words can express ; such a
look as one or two of the greatest masters

have succeeded in painting in a Madonna
lace ; such a look as only Christian art, and
that at its very best, can portray. The
source of this beautiful expression was the
dark figure of a man standing in a wearied
attitude, gazing over the lake, in strong-relief
against the western brightness. He
turned at the sound of Lilian's light step,
and met her face with a corresponding
radiance in his brown eyes, and came towards
her with a momentary elasticity in his
wearied limbs.

I Was afraid I had missed you," he said,
suffering her to take some of the numerous
parcels with which he was laden, and thus
free one of his arms, in which she linked her
hand with a loving pressure. " It took so
long to do all the commissions. Yevey was
full ; the whole canton was shopping there .
The children ? Oh, they are rowing home.
Obermann took a boatman, and the lake is
like glass."

And you are tired with the walk,
Henry."

I was till I saw you. I cannot get over
this weakness yet, Lilian. Of course, it must
take time. But I am quite resigned to the
fact that I can never be strong again."

But you are stronger. Herr Obermann
said this morning that you looked ten years
younger," said Lilian, with a wistful appeal
in her voice.

Infinitely stronger, dearest ; and there is
every prospect of my living to a good old
age yet, and a happy one. Shall I tell you
what T was thinking when I heard your
step ? I was thinking, ' Suppose she had done
as I wished, as every reasonable creature
wished ; suppose she had ceased to think of
me, save as we think of the dead, and given
her heart and youth to one who could have
made her happy

"But you know that was impossible,
Henry, when T had given my heart and my
life to you."

Ah, Lilian, it is not every honest and
loyal love that can survive such a discipline,
and waste its youth and hope as you did

yours on me ! But suppose it had been so,
and I had not succumbed to despair and
died in prison, though I do not think I
could have lived through those awful years
without you."

And yet you talk of my wasted south."
And it was wasted for you, darling.
But suppose it had been so, and I had regained
ray freedom, and found you, as you
must ever have been, a kind, true friend, but
the happy wife of another — of Swaynestone,
for instance, as he told me you should have
been — with your heart occupied by a mother's
love and cares ; — ah ! my dear, how could I
have faced life alone ? " Henry paused, for
his heart was so full that he could not speak,
and the tears were in his eyes, and also in
Lilian's, which were raised to his, speaking the
language which no words can render. " What
you have been to me ! what you have done forme
through all those years of beautiful sacrifice
! " he added, when his voice came back.

*' Dearest, I have only loved you," replied
Lilian.

You have only loved me," echoed Henry,
pressing her hand more closely to his heart ;
^' that is all. Sometimes I think I should
not have been happier if we had been united
in our youth, and lived all those years of
fuller life together. Darling, there are compensations
: it was worth going to prison
all those years to find you at the end." And
he thought, but did not say, that Cyril's
treachery was atoned by his twin-sister's
loyalty.

Lilian always felt that she must make upto
Henry all the sorrow caused by Cyril ;
while Henry, remembering what Cyril's sin
had cost her, felt that he could never do
enough to make up for it.

Of one thing I am quite sure," he added,
as they reached the gate, and the evening
sky, with its one white star, looked down
upon their happy faces, " the young couple
in the pension over the way have not half so
sweet a honeymoon as ours."

Just then light footsteps came bounding
up from the lake-side towards them, and

Marion and the blind bos, Everard, their
young faces flushed with pleasure and exercise,
came running to them, hallowed by Herr
Obermann, who now acted as the tutor to
both boy and girl.

"I rowed the whole way, and Marry steered ;
and look ! what a sack of pine-cones I have
for grandfather ! " cried Everard, gaily, as
Lilian received him with a caress, for they
encouraged his caressing ways in consideration
of the blindness which debarred him
from the pleasure of realizing his friends'
presence except by touch. Then they all
entered the salon together, and grouped about
the blazing hearth for the idle evening hour
they so delighted in, while Herr Obermann
left them to enjoy his pipe and his volume of
Kant in his own especial den.

Little Everard sat by his grandfather, and
handed him pine-cones, which the latter
threw on the fire, with childlike pleasure in
the blaze and crackle they made, and in
which the blind child also took a strange
delight, saying that he could feel the brightness.

These two were firm friends, never so
happy as when one could help the other.
Everard delighted to wheel his grandfather's
chair, or lend him his arm ; while Mr. Maitland
would read aloud for the boy's benefit,
indifferent to the book he read, since his
memory had left him on the day of Cyril's
death, and he could thus repeat the same
book over and over again, with a fresh sense
of pleasure each time, a power that was useful
to the boy in enabling him to get passages,
especially passages of poetry, by heart.

Mr. Maitland never realized Cyril's death ;
he remained under the impression that they
were always on a journey to Belminster to
visit the dean, and was perfectly patient, his
lack of memory destroying all sense of the
passage of time. Every evening, when Lilian
visited him in his bed to bid him good night,
he asked if they were going on to Belminster
tomorrow, and when Lilian replied, " Not
tomorrow, dear father ; perhaps the day
after," went to sleep in perfect content until
one night, about three years after the dean's

death, when, instead of putting his "usual
(question, he said, very quietly, " I shall he
with him before morning," and turned to his
rest with a happy smile, and in the morning
they found him in the same restful attitude,
dead.

There was nothing distressing in the
merciful infirmity which had spared his grey
head such hitter sorrow. He was to the last
the same courtly, polished gentleman ; the
same genial companion, delighting in all that
was beautiful and elevating, and content to
look on at the life going on around him.

He could discourse of long past events,
and of art and literature, as well as ever, but
his mind never received any fresh impression
after the tremendous blow that crushed it.
On meeting strangers, he was sure to introduce
the following phrase into the conversation
: — " You may perhaps know my son,
the Dean of Belminster. He has just been
presented to the See of Warham." This was
the only painful circumstance connected with
his infirmity, save that he never could grasp

the fact that Henry and Lilian were married,
and occasionally embarrassed them considerably,
by blandly asking them what date was
fixed for the wedding, and always alluded to
Lilian as Miss Maitland, a circumstance that
led strangers to suppose that he referred to
his granddaughter, Marion.

The children were carefully guarded from
all knowledge of their father's transgressions.
It was, of course, easy to keep the newspapers
from Everard ; and, with a little care,
Marion was also shielded from them. The
Times of the Monday following the dean's
death published the telegram stating that he
had died suddenly in the cathedral at the
close of an eloquent sermon the day before,
and also gave such a sketch of his life up to
its close as is its usual custom on the death
of eminent men, and this ]paper Marion read,
greatly wondering that no account of dear
papa's funeral ever appeared. Lilian took
them away from Belminster as soon as Mr.
Maitland could be moved, to a quiet seaside
village, where they remained till her marriage.

To guard them more effectually from any
chance knowledge of the truth, as well as
to restore Henry's shattered health, it was
decided that the little family should live
abroad for some years at least.

His physician had told Henry that he
would never be fit for mental labour of any
intensity or long duration, and he accepted
the prospect of a life of busy idleness, which
in the end proved very happy, however
different to that he had anticipated in his
youth. He was thus obliged for ever to
renounce his beloved profession, though he
never lost interest in it, or ceased to cultivate
the manifold studies connected with it. In
his quiet leisure he found opportunity to set
before the public much valuable information
on prison life, and particularly to indicate its
hygienic aspects, mental as well as physical.

In the serene happiness of his later years,
it was sweet to Henry to dwell on the
brighter scenes of his life in the prison which
had at last become so dear to him, and contained
so many friends , and he often talked

of it, the more so as little Everard manifested
an intense interest in everything connected
with captivity. He had all "• The Prisoner
of Chillon " by heart, and loved to go into
the vaulted dungeon in the castle, and touch
the ^' pillars of Gothic mould," and the ring
to which Bonnivard was chained, and listen
to the lapping of the water on its massive
walls, and hear people speak of the dim light

with its water V reflections. Both children

t/

knew from their first meeting with their
uncle of his unmerited punishment, and
understood that his innocence had been proved
beyond all doubt, but they never were told
who was the real criminal.

Marion remembered the incident of giving
the handkerchief to the man whose shaven
head roused her little brother's innocent
suspicions the day they waited in the pony-chaise
outside the house of Leslie's widow,
and it was her great delight, as well as her
brother's, to get " dear Uncle Henry " in the
mood to relate the moving incidents of his
escape and brief spell of freedom, and they

invariably wept with great enjoyment at the
tragic close of the narrative, when the fugitive
sank into the death-like unconsciousness of
exhaustion and starvation.

Henry and Lilian became the types of true
lovers in the eyes of the numerous young
people growing up around them, and were
always appealed to against the decisions of
flinty-hearted parents and guardians in the
crises of their love-affairs ; they also became
a second father and mother to the many
Maitlandss, Swaynestones, Everard, and others
of the rising generation, all of whom regarded
a visit to Uncle Henry and Aunt Lilian as
the height of bliss. So that, although their
long-deferred marriage was childless, it was
blest with the love of many young creatures,
besides the especial children, Marion and
Everard and Benjamin Lee.

The little family was already knit together
on that November evening in bonds of
strong and deep affection. They made a
pleasant picture in the warm firelight, the
white-haired man, with the blind boy nestling

to his side, feeding the bright hearth with
resinous fir-apples ; Henry and Lilian side by
side opposite them ; and Marion sitting on
the rug in the full blaze, with her head
resting against Lilian's knee, while she read
her letters in the firelight.

"The new dean," she quoted from her
girl-friend's letter, " is the antipodes of your
dear papa, whom we shall never cease to
lament. Mrs. Little's baby could not be got
to sleep on any condition whatever, and

naughty Canon Warned asked Mrs. L why

she did not try one of the dean's sermons.
He is dreadfully learned (the dean, not the
baby), and a regular frump ; his wife and
daughters (five) are all frumps, with red
noses and hands and big feet. We called at
the dear Deanery on Thursday, and oh !
Marry, I thought my heart would break
when I saw all the dear old pretty things ;
and when tea was brought in and placed on
the very same table Ethel and I burst outcrying.
Jim says it was the worst possible
form, and mother was ready to sink through

the carpet with shame. The dean is so
absent that he stirs his tea with the sugar-tongs,
and never remembers who people are,
unless it is desirable to forget. Imagine the
contrast to our dean. Your uncle George is
driving the bishop to distraction with his
goings on at St. Chad's. They say the poor
bishop has gone down on his knees and asked
him as a personal favour to travel for a year
or so. The new tenor has the most glorious
voice. Dr. Rydal says it makes him ten
years younger. I think your uncle Henry
knows him — a handsome fellow named Lee.
The Times says that Lady Swaynestone has
twins." (" Dear me, Uncle Henry," inter -
rusted Marion, " how twins do run in our
family ! ") " The last we heard of them,
Lionel and Lilian were as naughty as they
could live, so it is a good thing. So Mr. Leonard
Maitland is to be married in the spring.
Jim knows her people well. How we miss
Everard's voice! etc." "And yet," said Marion,
as she finished her letter, " I do Qot wish to go
back to dear Belminster. It would be too sad."
VOL. in. u

And her brother echoed her words ; and
then, after their evening meal of Swiss fare,
Everard's violin and his tutor's came out,
and there was music and the singing of sweet
old glees, while Mr. Maitland sat listening
happily by the fire, and Henry heard from
behind his paper or joined in, when required,
until the hour came for the blind boy to
stand before his grandfather and repeat the
evening psalms, which he knew by heart
from his chorister experience ; and the young
folk and their grandfather went to their rest
and Herr Obermann to his pipe, and Henry
and Lilian were left by the bright hearth
together. That was the happiest time in all
the happy day.

THE END.
