OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS


G66Sac

CREATURES OF CLAY

Ji Itoin;!.

BY

LADY VIOLET GREVILLE,

AUTHOR OF "Sob," "KEITH'S WIFE," ETC.

Yc children of mau ! Whose life is a span.

Protracted with sorrow from day to day,
Naked and fatherless, feeble and querulous.

Sickly, calamitous Creatures of Clay."

AllISTOrHANEb.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON— Chapman and HALL

LIMITED.

1885.
\ AU Rights Itcscrvcd.']

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

fu

CONTENTS

VOLUME I.

CHAP.

I. — Foiled
II. — An Old Friend
Til. — Cousinly Affection .
IV. — The Family Lawyer .

V. — Maud anticipates
VI. — Luce Windermere

VII. — A RELUCTANT CANDIDATE

.^- VIII. — The Pearl Necklace .

•^

'^ IX. — A nice Girl

-V X. — The Meeting in the Town Hall

.^ XI.^" Granny"

js XII. — The Black Mare

/< XIII. — Luce is coy

xiv. — Julian finds an agreeable Girl
^ XV. — Mrs. Vincent is annoyed

^ XVL— Was it Love ? .

^-XVII. — Granny's Reminiscences

^ XVIII. — Lady Fenchurch receives a letter

;5

XIX. — Dick accepts a Trust

^ XX. — The Trust proves a Curse

page









































CHAPTER 1.

It was August in London, dull, hot, stifling
weather, when the sky looks brazen, the
prematurely-faded yellow leaves begin to
flutter and fall from the grimy trees in
the parks and the streets become dusty and
ill-odorous. Dirty bits of paper fly up and
about in the scorching scirrocco-like air,
everybody of any importance is out of
town ; the blinds of fashionable houses are
closed, and the care-takers go about in curl-papers
and slippers.

On such a day a young man, morosely
chewing at a cigar, sat in the window of one
of the few West End clubs that was not shut
up in consequence of cleaning or repairs.
He had a bright, fair, young, English face,
which at that instant wore an evil expression
of angry despair, evidently foreign to its

VOL. I. B

character. After a few moments of sullen

reflection, the young man rose and walked
to the chimney-piece, against which he

rested his forehead gloomily.

'' I say, Dick," exclaimed another young
man who was reading the paper at a little
distance, ^^why don't you answer ? I asked
you if you knew that Evelyn Bray, the girl
we met at the Miners in the summer, that
time at Henley, you know, when we had
such jolly water-parties, was just married
to old Sir Hilary Fenchurch."

''I didn't know it till you read out the
news just now'* answered his friend, sullenly.

'' She was very good-looking," mused the
other, ^' and I suppose she thinks she has
made a good thing of it, for I believe she

is an orphan without a penny — seems rather
a pity though, doesn't it ? He must be old
enough for her father."

^ ' Rather a pity ! I should just think it was ;
it's disgusting to see a girl sell herself like
that."

'' Oh well, my dear fellow, it doesn't do
to be too hard upon them, poor things, it is
their profession, you know, like the army
for me "

'^A vile profession ! " said Dick, vindictively.


^^ What a bad temper you are in to-day,
what's the matter, eh ? " said the other,
stretching himself more luxuriously in his
deep arm-chair, and extending a languid
hand to the glass of iced lemon and soda-water
that stood on a little table beside
him. '' Tailor sent your bill in — or lost at
Goodwood, eh ? "

'^ Neither. I'm only sick of the folly of
the life we lead ; what's the good of it all ?
How long will it last ? Women cheat, men
lie and rob you, and — its confoundedly hot."

^' So it is, but you can't reform the world;
get as much fun as you can out of it, that's
my maxim, and don't fuss yourself."

'^ You never fussed yourself, I'm sure,"
sneered Dick.

Never, It don't pay."

'^ I should like to know what does pay,
Fellows grumble at the army, the navy,
their wives, their people — every thing."

^' At least, you can't grumble. You have
all that a man can want, nothing to do,
splendid prospects, and a grandmother who
will stand sou an^r amount of money."

B 2

Dick was silent. The bitterness he felt
was too deep for words. Presently he
quitted the club and his contented friend,
who, left in solitude, dropped off into
peaceful slumbers for the rest of the afternoon,
and woke up, cool and refreshed, justin
time for dinner. Dick, on the contrary,
once in the street, walked on quickly, regardless
of the heat, until he reached his
lodgings, where he set to work energetically
to pack a portmanteau.

Dick Carrol was a spoilt favourite of fortune.
He had been brought up by an
adoring grandmother, and pampered by
society, who beheld in him the possible heir
to a large fortune. He had scarcely ever
been contradicted, and never knew what
it was to receive the thing expressed by
that salutary but disagreeable figure of
speech, a slap in the face. Dick now, for the
first time in his life, was hopelessly, stupidly,
wretchedly in love. And, having informed
his goddess of this condition of things,
which ought to have made some impression
upon her heart, he was forced to read of her
marriage to another, an elderly, commonplace,
country baronet. Not only therefore

was she unfaithful and unappreciative, but
she was also mercenary. Dick, maddened
and impetuous, resolved to revenge himself.
He would wildly pursue, would taunt, upbraid,
and dismay her. The newspaper informed
him that the happy couple were gone
to Switzerland (happy couple indeed) ! Dick
ground his teeth, he saw it was not a large
country on the map, he would scour the
country, search every hotel, and find them.
In this frame of mind he left England, and,
soon enough, came upon the traces of his
beloved and unfaithful mistress.

Meanwhile, Sir Hilary and Lady Fen-church
had been married a fortnight, and
the time allotted to the honeymoon, which,
according to the roving habits of the
English people, they had been spending in
Switzerland, was nearly exhausted. The
link that bound Island and wife together
was partly new and partly old. Evelyn
Bray, the orphan daughter of a poor gentleman,
had lived with her guardian. Sir
Hilary Fenchurcli, and his sister, for several
years, until the time appointed for the
ratification of the solemn promise Sir Hilary
lead made to her dying father arrived,

and he had claimed her for his wife. Evelyn
made no objection ; Sir Hilary was about
thirty years older than herself, but he
was a kindly as well as a rich man, and
she had been brought up to value her
future position, and to consult his habits
and wishes. She was docile and gentle, not
particularly imaginative, and possessed all
the woman's love of luxuries and comforts.
She only vaguely realized the irrevocability
of the marriage tie, nor did she
anticipate any gi-eat or pleasurable result
from the change in her condition. Once
married. Sir Hilary treated her in his
usual fashion, pleasantly, 'considerately, with
a tinge of old-fashioned courtly deference
in his manner, which was rather flattering
to a young creature, but with none
of a lover's warmth. Evelyn was grateful
to him for this concession, for the sight
of an amorous middle-aged man disporting
himself in fond caresses is a somewhat disagreeable
spectacle, and, though Lady Een-
church entertained a calm affection for Sir
Hilary, any exhibition of passion on his part
would only have alarmed and disgusted her.
Those persons who were staying in the

pleasantly picturesque mountain resort where
Sir Hilary and his wife elected to pass a few
days observed the new married couple walking
up and down, arm in arm, in the early
morning, (while Sir Hilary drank a couple of
glasses of some nauseous water, recommended
by the doctors for his periodical attacks of
gout), and noticed with surprise the happy
union of December and May. Yet, as every
bright thing has its reverse, so when Evelyn
remained alone, and Sir Hilary took a longer
or steeper pedestrian stretch, the placid expression
of her face underwent a considerable
change. At such times she would wander into
some solitary part of the woods, nominally
intent on sketching purposes, in reality a prey
to disagreeable thoughts. For she then recalled
to her mind an episode of the last few
months which she had not confided to Sir
Hilary, and which, though it left her outward
circumstances unchanged, considerably modified
her inner life. While on a visit to a friend,
but a few weeks before her marriage, she meta
handsome young man. They walked and
talked together in the intimacy of country-house
life, grew to understand and appreciate
each other, until one day he told her he loved

her. And she, hearing such strange and
pleasant words, and for a moment forgetting
the rigid future in store for her, including
Sir Hilary and the comfortable settlement
to which she was destined, listened eagerly.
Listened to the detriment of her peace and
the loss of her self-respect, yet with the
lightness of her age and sex snatching at
the forbidden pleasure, and drinking in the
words of flattering love. Then, womanlike,
when her lover pressed her to throw
off the conventional shackles that bound
her, she dared not, and, true to neither,
married one man while her heart was given
to another. Powerless and disinclined to
forget a part of which she was now ashamed,
she weakly feared to speak of this to her
husband. For, she argued, what was thereto
tell ? She had sent her lover away, assured
him that what he asked was impossible,
that he must never think of her, that he
must never again see her-in short, all the
pretty insincere vows and protestations that
women hard-pressed are wont to utter. She
left the house, feeling she had acted honourably;
she heard no more of him, and believed
he had forgotten her, yet, strangely enough.

indeed, this last thought increased her regret.
Occasionally, overcome by temptation, she
would put down her drawing materials, and,
leaning her head on her hand as she sat
among the cool green ferns and mosses, think
of the past with tearful sorrow; then, after
a little, remembering Sir Hilary, bestir herself
and walk home, her hollow eyes and
pale cheeks rising up as witnesses against her.
This was certainly an uncomfortable and a
useless way of passing a honeymoon, and
poor Evelyn sometimes feared that Sir Hilary,
plain and practical as he was, might suspect
something unusual. At other times her
speculations led her to wonder aimlessly
where her lover might be, and if he had
really consoled himself for her loss with his
pretty cousin Maud, to whom the world's
gossip already married him ; but when they
readied this point her speculations invariably
ended in tears. Even the most heroically
prudish woman does not like to feel that she is
forgotten. By dint of musing over these sad
and hopeless reminiscences Evelyn attained
to a gentle melancholy and an uncontrollable
desire to see once more, if only to take a
pathetic farewell of him, the hero of her

dreams. One afternoon especially, \\hen she
had plunged as usual into the recesses of the
pine woods and walked listlessly to a spot
whence she could see range upon range
of distant snow-capped peaks melting into a
dim blue distance or standing out sharply
against the clear sky, silent and wonderful
in their majesty ; the longing to see Dick
grew more intense than ever, and she permitted
her thoughts to stray back to those
bright halcyon day s of overtaking which now
seemed to her so precious, but which at the
time she had not sufficiently valued. They
were irrevocably gone, no longings could
recall them, why might she not therefore
retrace that happy time as if it concerned
some one else and not herself? Thinking
thus, she mused luxuriously in a kind of
melancholy rapture and was scarcely surprised
to see before her the object of her
thoughts, who after severe travelling had
discovered her abode, and followed her in
her solitary walk. She felt pleased and
yet a little frightened. Such a pursuit
scarcely argued forgetfulness, and though
agreeable to dream of a lover it might not be
so easy to deal with him in flesh and blood.

Dick left London with the intention of
indulging in a series of melodramatic reproaches;
instead, as he saw the startled face
of a pretty girl before him, he threw himself
down beside her, and, taking her hand gently,
said '' Evelyn ! " Love was more prominent
than reproach in this adjuration, and as to
revenge he had totally forgotten its existence.

evelyn, why have you behaved so
cruelly ? Why did you marry another man
when I loved you and you knew it ? "

Youth always considers its own rights
first.

^^ I said that our love — your love — was
wrong and foolish," stammered Evelyn.

^•' I can't see that; you were not obliged
to marry Sir Hilary."

^' I could not help it, our engagement had
lasted so long. Papa wished it, and on his
deathbed Sir Hilary promised him he would
marry me, and I "

^ ' And for some silly idea of duty you
have spoilt my life and yours. I never
believed you really meant it ; I thought that,
if I gave you time and did not worry you,
you would understand — would relent. I
loved you, Evelyn, and when a man loves

lie deserves some consideration," said Dick,
reproachfully.

'^ Indeed, I am very sorry."

'' Vent soi^i^y! you speak like a little
school-girl ; didn't you love me ? "

^' Well — you said so ; " the coquette in
her nature asserted itself.

^^ You might at least have waited a bit,
have given a fellow some chance."

'^ There was no use in waiting,"

^' Everything would have come right if
you had only waited," he argued again
impatiently.

"' Yes, but I could not," she said softly.

You were very cruel."

'^ Cruel to myself, don't you think I
suffered ? but then I knew it was right."

'^ Right, right ! you women only think of
yourselves; what a man feels is nothing. If
you had only trusted me, instead of sending
me away — to read your marriage one day
in a newspaper."

^^ But Sir Hilary?"

'^ Hang Sir Hilary ! What a situation for
5^ou ! a prim old fellow, who will be just as
fond of the Board of Guardians or of his

turnips as of Lis wife ; who won't understand
you or share your pleasures."

'* He is very kind," she whispered, trying
to palliate to her conscience the sin of hearing
her husband's character discussed.

^' Can you not believe that I should have
been kinder ? "

Tears stood in Evelyn's eyes. She was
pitying herself, and imagining what immeasurable
bliss Dick's affection would have
afforded her. He saw his advantage.

^' Do you not know that men have strong
passions, that they can feel ? Ay ! as you
never felt in your life, hedged in by all
your tepid ideas of duty and sentiment*'

'' Oh, Dick! forgive me — forget me."

*' Forget you ! and if I cannot ? if you're
the first woman I ever really loved ? — if you
seem to have taken away my very heart
with you? — if — oh! I cannot bear it, Evelyn!
I came all this way just to see you, just to
tell you, for once, what I think of you — of a
girl who plays with a man as you did !
You shall hear ! " he emphasized, as she
tried to rise. ^' I loved you, and you jilted
me for a rich old man."

'' Oh ! Dick ! Dick ! how can you ? " she

cried, fairly frightened now, and wondering
how she should get rid of him. ^' I could
not help it — indeed I could not if I loved
you."

'' You loved me ! — you love me still ! —
you're miseimhle! I'm glad you're miserable,
Lady Fenchurch ! "

He jumped up and stood over her, lashing
himself into a rage as he spoke. Her head
sank lower and lower ; she picked nervously
with her fingers at the tiny grasses She
was a little ashamed, and not a little
alarmed.

'* Do not let us reproach each other," she
said quietly, though her heart beat fast.
^' We have been rudely parted, I know ;
and I assure you I have suffered bitterly ;
but I will try to bear my burden, and you
must try to bear yours — for my sake,
please."

Her voice faltered. He looked at her,
first angrily, then kindly, then triumphantly.
He thought he saw the weakness in the
strength she tried to assume.

^•For your sake! Women always say
that''

'' The loss of a woman, after all, is

nothing in a man's life. You are a noble
fellow ; you are sure to do what is right ;
forget ''

She could say no more. The tears rushed
to her eyes, yet she felt a sense of pride
almost as great as if she had won a victory.
He threw himself again beside her, and
pressed her hand in his.

*' Evelyn, these heroics are absurd. Why
shouldn't we be happy ? why should our
life be spoiled ? You have been married
through a terrible misunderstanding ; you
could not help it, I know, but you will never
love Sir Hilary ; never be happy. Come
with me — come. I will love you and care
for you."

She put out her hands as if to keep him
off, and shrank away ; she had no desire to
outrage society.

^' No, no ! not that ; never say that again,
such things are nonsense," she said.

'^ Nonsense — Ah, I thought you could not
love me'' he said gloomily. 'yet I cannot
bear to see you wretched all your life''

''I shall not be wretched," she said, with a
little forced laugh ; ''I mean to enjoy myself,

to be very good; Sir Hilary is most
indulgent."

*^ You don't love me ; and I was a fool to
think so," he said angrily.

^^It must be as I said, Dick," she answered
severely ; '^ you know it must."

'must be — must be!" muttered the
young man, impatiently, feeling, for the
first time in his life, an impracticable barrier
opposed to his wishes. ^' Of course, it is for
you to decide ; if you tell me of your own
free will to go, I must ; but "

^' I do tell you — I wish it."

He looked at her keenly. Her voice
sounded firm and clear ; she evidently meant
it. His happiness was nothing to her ; she
had chosen her own line and intended to
keep to it. After all, perhaps, she was
right, there would be complications — and
men did not die of love. Still he hesitated ;
she was so beautiful ; no woman had ever
appeared to him so beautiful before, and he
was unaccustomed to be jilted ; the circumstances
were usually reversed, girls had
cared hopelessly for him and he had never
given them a thought.

*^ Evelyn! Evelyn! pray reflect! you

cannot send me away so." No answer.
She was very pale. And yet much calmer
than, in his infatuation, he would have expected.
He rose slowly to his feet, waiting
for her to speak, ^' I am going," he said,
Haven't you a word for me ? Won't you
change your mind, darling ? 1 do love you
so."

She rose also, and held out her hand,
turning away her head.

"Good-bye, forgive me," she said, quietly.

Then he jerked away her hand, and in
another instant the crashing of the bushes
told her he was gone. Pale and trembling,
she steadied herself against the trunk of a
pinetree, thoroughly exhausted and unnerved.
The sweet wild pink scented the air with
its fragrance, and the silver tinkle of the
cowbells sounded merrily from the valley,
but she saw and felt nothing. Her heart
seemed to stand still and a great veil of
darkness obscured her sight. How hard it
had been to convince him, what a pang it
had cost her ! Presently, as in a dream, she
walked on. The sun had set quite suddenly,
as happens in mountainous regions, and
the hills, but recently bathed in gleams of
VOL. I. c

roseate light were now a sombre violet, a
small pale evening star twinkled above, and
the air was tinged with a sharp and frosty
coolness. She fell benumbed morally and
physically, and the chill air revived her.

When she reached home she found Sir
Hilary waiting and somewhat anxious. He
gently chid her for staying out so late, and
her conscience smote her as she saw that
he looked pale and worried. If he had but
known on what a thread her future happiness
still hung.

^^ The papers are come," he said, looking
as unlike a jealous husband as possible,
sit down here, you will like to read
them."

Gladly hailing this as a relief from conversation,
she sat down, until by degrees
she was able to control her nervousness
and the tremulous tones of her voice.

In the morning a note was handed herby
the chambermaid. It contained only a
few lines :

'' You have willed it so. I leave tomorrow.
Still I give you one chance
more before I go. (I know not whereto
do what! ) Give myself to the Devil,
I suppose. Evelyn, do you really wish me

to leave you ? If not send me a line to the
hotel, where I shall wait all dav.

'' Yours till death,

Evelyn crumpled the paper together in
her hands when she had read it. '' Why
does he try to tempt me, and make me
run such risks?" she cried; ^^it is cruel,
shameful ! " Yet many a time during
that dreadfully long hot day did she feel
inclined to waver, to be a flirt, and to
say, '' Come back, do not leave me, be my
friend."

Surely, she might at least have kept him
as a friend, — she was innocent of all wrongdoing,
and determined to continue to act
honestly ; but the sight of his countenance
would have been pleasant; why need she
deny herself that happiness ? Once she
seized a pen and began to write, then dropping
it buried her face in her hands, ^' Oh !
how weak I am, how wicked ! " She
glanced at the clock and thought the day
interminable ; it was kind at least of Sir
Hilary to leave her alone and prolong
his constitutional beyond the usual limits
soon, very soon, the feverish hours would

c2

pass and lie would regain calm and quiet
again.

Outside every-day life proceeded merrily,
carts and carriages rattled along, drivers
cracked their whips with a will, bells
jingled and dust powdered the red carnations
at the window and flew lightly into
the room.

Three o'clock, four o'clock, dusk, then
evening came. Evelyn lay on the sofa. Her
head ached. Meantime Dick, half mad with
rage and disappointment, sat biting at a
cigar and listening to every sound in the
hotel. To the very last he hoped and believed
in his influence over her. She lead
seemed so affectionate, so pliable, before her
marriage, that he could not realize the
sudden change. He never considered what
was to follow, or what their lives would
have been in the future ; he never asked
himself these questions ; he was young and
sanguine, and he loved her. That was
enough. Occasionally, indeed, he remorsefully
remembered his grandmother, who
bestowed on him a handsome allowance,
whose heir he was supposed to be, and who
had hitherto proved invariably indulgent to

all his follies. She was old and the shock
might harm her, kill her perhaps. No, no,
he said to himself, he would manage her,
talk to her, old folks were not so sensitive,
she would forgive him, and they would
all be happy eventually. Then as the hours
flew by he grew angry. Evelyn was selfish,
she did not love him ; she must always
have intended to deceive him ; she told him
of her engagement, certainly, but he had
never believed her marriage to be so near
and so irrevocable. The news dealt his
hopes and his vanity a severe blow. He
had undertaken a long journey counting on
his influence over her, and it had proved
useless. No wonder he was angry, disappointed,
and miserable.

Night merged into morning, yet she did
not write. What a fool he was to have
believed in, to have cared for, her. It proved
that women were, as men had often said
in his hearing, only heartless coquettes.
Never again would he love. Then, with a
great revulsion of feeling, he began fo
question whether his passion had been of
so durable, so intense a nature. He was
very young, and life with all its possibilities

lay before him, perhaps on the
whole it was best for him so, best that lie
had not consented to his prayer. He was
still free ! Then, almost with joy and a
great longing to shake the soil of the
hateful place from his feet, he departed.

The dust and hubbub of his travelling-carriage
reached the room where Evelyn
lay, wakefully tormenting herself with sad
thoughts; but no presentiment warned her
that the crisis in her fate was passed,
and that henceforth a new chapter of her
life would begin.

In such rude fashion ended Evelyn's
honeymoon, and in October the newly-married
pair returned to Oakdene, — Evelyn
quietly taking on pretty little matronly airs
and Sir Hilary seeming ruddy and cheerful
among his partridges and his turnips.

With the kind of sensation, as though she
had dropped down to earth from some fair
fairyland, Evelyn took up existence as she
had left it, listened to Miss Fenchurch's long
pointless monologues, walked down the silent
oaken galleries, passed through the unused
drawing-room, shrouded in holland covers
and fragrant with a faint smell of potpourri

and camphor, held colloquies with the housekeeper
over jams and preserves, and heard
herself called distantly '^ My Lady " by
familiar voices who had hitherto said ^' Miss
Evelyn." Everything was quite 'the same
and yet really everything was quite different.
Miss Fen church formally resigned
the keys and no longer made tea at breakfast,
an arrangement which enabled her to
knit indefatigably during the meal ; but the
gust of passion had passed over Evelyn's
soul and she could not forget. To herself
she was still Evelyn, not Lady Fenchurch,
and no formal ceremony of resigning keys
could force the fact upon her.

'^ She moped," Miss Fenchurch said; '^ it
was sad for a married woman to sit about
reading novels and dreaming away half the
day — let her take some exercise."

planting," suggested Sir Hilary, cheerily.

'^ Certainly not ! what are you thinking

of, my dear brother, a married woman ? —

most injurious to the health." Sir Hilary

subsided, with a conscious chuckle.

Evelyn flamed out, '^ Why not, pray? why
should I not ? I love riding, Hilary ; I will
go out hunting with you tomorrow."

Miss Fenclmrcli shook her head, and Sir
Hilary, puzzled, glanced from one to the
other.

A considerable portion of Evelyn's time
was occupied by the never-ending callers,
who, partly impelled by curiosity, and partly
for want of something to do, inflicted themselves
on the young bride. They had known
her for years as Evelyn Bray, but Evelyn
Fen church possessed the charm of novelty.
Each person reported what kind of dress she
was wearing, what wedding presents lay on
the table, whether the jewellery displayed
was handsome or betokened stinginess on the
p9j:t of Sir Hilary, regretting that the family
diamonds, of course, could only be seen to
advantage at the next county ball. How
Lady Fenchurch bore herself, whether she
looked happy, why the marriage had been
celebrated in perfect privacy in town, and
whether she had improved in looks, afforded
food for much gossip and a great deal of
very agreeable tea drinking. Opinions were
divided as to whether she would be an
addition to the county society or not. Of
course, if she entertained and spent some of
the money which Sir Hilary had hitherto so

carefully hoarded, it would be well enough.
Did he intend to stand for Parliament, and
would his wife make herself popular, were
the further questions the county asked itself,
and to which it eagerly awaited the answers.

CHAPTER II.

Dick went into Italy, dawdled away a fortnight
at Venice, took a run down to Rome,
and discovered, with surprise, that foreign
travel was in no ways distracting. Disgusted
and sore at heart he returned to
England. The first person he stumbled up
against in London was his cousin, Maud
Hardfast, whose joy at meeting him was at
least refreshing. Though a very handsome
girl, she had not succeeded in making a
match, and it occurred to her that Dick was a
chance not to be thrown away. Partly owing
to her own talents as an accomplished
flirt, and partly to her mother's straitened
circumstances, the two women were regarded
by society in the light of hawks ready to
swoop down on any marriageable young man,
and were universally exposed to detraction

by their own sex accordingly. To be "skies"
at the academy, to write poems which nobody
will read, to breed cattle who die of plem^o-
pneumonia the week before the show at
which in all likelihood they must have taken
prizes, are bitter things indeed, yet not more
fraught with bitterness than the feelings of a
hawked-about girl, who displays her wares
in vain, and leaves London season after
season, ticketed '' unsaleable." So Maud's
face brightened as she beheld her cousin,
and thought that there was still some hope
of her obtaining a desirable husband.

'^ Where do you come from ? What luck
to find you in town ! " she said, sweetly.

^^ I've come from Dover," he answered,
rather ungraciously, hating to be cross-questioned.
'' I've been travelling abroad."

But Maud knew men's ways. She soon
smoothed down his rushed features, and by
gentle means drove away his ill-temper, with
the result that he promised to visit her
mother on the morrow.

Dick felt terribly bored, with the ennui
that comes from a total want of any interest
in life, and almost any distraction seemed
good to him at that moment. So in an

colourless and yet expectant mood he presented
himself at Mrs. Hardfast's house. It
was part of the latter's principles never to
parade economy in any shape, her house
was as daintily furnished, her chintz as
fresh, her muslin curtains as snowy as possible
; if the servants complained of scanty
wages, hard work, and numerous petty
makeshifts, and if stinginess were practised
in secret, yet nothing of this vas evident
to Mrs. Hardfast's friends. The ladies
dined out a great deal, and when there
came no invitations contented themselves
with a slender tea and food that a
pampered footman would have rejected.
But then Maud's ball-dresses were beautiful
and her mother prided herself on being a
wondrous manager. The cool atmosphere of
the little drawing-room formed a delightful
contrast on tins broiling September day ;
sweet-smelling flowers filled innumerable
glasses on the table, and Maud herself,
dressed in the airiest and lightest of garments,
radiated smiles and amiability. After
the soul-tempests Dick had undergone, and
the gradual conviction that was stealing
over him that he had made an egregious fool

of himself, it suited him to talk of nothings,
and fling about the light ball of flimsy
society talk. Maud knew all the gossip,
and had a perfect store of amusing bits of
scandal to relate, so that the time passed
pleasantly, and he found little hesitation in
staying for five-o'clock tea, then staying onto
dinner, finally promising to call again on
the morrow. Maud was a wise girl in her
generation; she showed him nothing but
the frankest cordiality, without a spice of
coquetry, and soon restored him to good
humour and a belief in himself, not one of
the least remarkable results of a clever
woman's tact. Things continued on this
footing, Maud gradually edging herself into
his confidence, and resuming her cousinly
authority, which had been, to some extent,
shaken during his infatuation for Lady
Fenchurch. She made herself necessary to
liii, used him as a friend, adviser, and
companion, and flattered his tastes and
vanity. '^ He is a wary bird'* she said to
herself once, glancing at her handsome bold
features reflected in the chimney-glass, ^^ but
I think I am a match for him."

Mrs. Hardfast on these occasions found

endless work in her household occupations,
and gracefully apologised for leaving the
young people alone. Her absence was a
boon to Dick, who was learning to appreciate
the pleasant dallying with a pretty woman,
and a machinery of companionship so carefully
adjusted that not a jar or a hitch came
to break the agreeable and even monotony.
He was aimless and objectless, and shrank
nervously from going to his grandmother's,
where he was now long overdue; while Maud,
working on this reluctance, took every
opportunity of impressing on him that in
society alone, and in her society above all,
could be found real satisfaction. One day
Mrs. Hardfast, who possessed an only son, a
spoiled boy of about eleven, consulted Dick,
now installed as the intimate friend of the
family, about his education. She had heard
of a classical tutor, an Oxford man, highly
recommended, whose terms were moderate,
and she wondered if Dick would really be
so kind as to go and see him. Dick, now
in a mood of universal obligingness, promised,
and set out for the address given After a
lengthy drive he knocked at a small house
standing in a pretty little garden in the

outskirts of London. The door was opened
to him by a lady.

'^ Is Mr. Bruce at home?" he asked,
doubtfully.

'^ Oh, yes' said the lady, with a toss of
her head, and a glance of approval at Dick's
appearance. '' Pray step in here."

Dick, believing her to be the tutor's wife,
marvelled at his choice. '^ Mrs. Bruce, I
presume ? " he said.

^' Oh dear no!" laughed the lively little
lady, her big black eyes sparkling, and her
parted lips displaying an even row of white
teeth. '' Mr, Bruce is a bachelor, and I am
his landlady, Mrs. Flints."

Indeed ! and a very charming one, Mrs.
Flinks," responded Dick, gallantly.

*' Single gentlemen are easy to please,"
said the landlady, reflectively, posing her
head on one side in the attitude of a young
person on the lid of a French plum-box,
'' though to be sure I never was brought upto
let lodgings, and it does go against the
grain ; my poor pa would never have believed
I should come to this — but there, you want
to see Mr. Bruce — a college friend I presume

and of course my blighted life is of no
moment to you."

'^ Your conversation is most attractive, but
you see I have business with Mr. Bruce."

** Exactly so, I will acquaint him with it
at once," said the landlady, seductively sailing
from the room. Much amused at the
strange little creature's ways, Dick glanced
around. The room, evidently the landlady's
own, was nicely furnished with chairs and
sofa covered in green reps, a canary in a
bright brass cage hung in the window between
the snowy muslin curtains, a print of
the Emperor Napoleon in historically martial
attitude scowled from the wall, and on the
tables were scattered photographs in plush
frames of simpering ladies and gentlemen.
In one corner stood a piano, and on the
music stool, with its pages open, lay the
score of Madame Ingot set to English words.
After a few moments the landlady returned,
bridling and laughing, and proceeded to
escort her visitor upstairs, where, after
throwing open the door of the first-floor
sitting-room with a dramatic flourish, she at
last consented to leave the two men alone.

'^ Julian ! " ^^ Dick ! " burst simultaneously
from their lips as they shook one
another heartily by the hand. ^'Who would
have thought of finding you here, old fellow
? "

'^ How did you track me out ? and how
well and — yes, manly you are looking,
Dick." Mr. Bruce drew forward a chair,
and a faint flush of pleasure rose on his
pallid cheek. Julian and Dick were old
school-fellows, they had messed, worked, and
consorted together. Dick, famous in the
cricket and playing fields, was a tyro at this
books, and with these Julian was ever ready
to help and advise. The two boys parted
when they left school, Dick went to Cambridge
and Julian to Oxford, and only met
occasionally. Dick hunted and boated and
spent money, Julian, as before, worked hard,
and owing his education to the savings of a
widowed mother, felt no temptation to spend,
but preferred honours to sporting notoriety.
Thus they drifted apart, their paths in life
diverging ever, and for the last two years
had completely lost sight of one another,
though each still retained an affection for
the playmate of his youth. They were a

VOL. I. D

contrast physically as well as morally. Dick
was well-knit, large of limb, fair and ruddy ;
athletics had developed his figure and given
him ease and grace of carriage. His bright
clear eyes, undimmed by care or work,
looked fearlessly out from beneath the broad
low forehead, while the curves of his full
mobile lips, hidden under the small moustache,
and the keen delicate nostrils denoted
an emotional and impulsive temperament.
Julian's height was above the average;
his reedy, lank figure, bowed by study,
looked shrunken in the loosely-fitting old
grey coat he wore ; his hands, which in conversation
he had a trick of knotting together
nervously, were thin and delicate as a woman's
; his hair, fair and colourless, thrown
back from an exceptionally high white forehead,
hung straight and limp; his eyes, of a
cool grey tint, had a dim absent expression,
the expression of a thinker rather than a man
of action ; but the delicacy and feminine softness
of his appearance was effectually contradicted
by the large square chin and well
chiselled expressive mouth. His strength
of endurance was great, his capacity for
work immense. Dick's power, on the contrary,

consisted in passionate energy,
though the energy, as a rule, lay dormant
and could be called out only by exceptional
and serious circumstances.

The young student looked with pleasure at
his friend. His life was dull and lonely, but
beneath his calm exterior beat a warm and
tender heart. Dick, on his part, at sight
of him, recalled the happy days of boyhood,
when to be captain of the boats
meant glory, and in the difficulties of Latin
verse consisted life's greatest misery. In
those days Dick had unconsciously deferred
to Julian, feeding the real superiority of
determination and pluck hidden under the
shy reserve of the quiet retiring boy. He *
had lived with other men since, had been
flattered and made up to, and influenced,
but he had never known what it was to
lean implicitly on the stay of true and
disinterested friendship since the hour he
parted from Julian.

'why, Julian, old fellow! how is it
you've come down to this ? Surely yoii are
not going in for the horrible drudgery of a
boy's tutor ? "

^' Why not ? Is it not the work of a

D 2

philosopher to be, as Addison says, ^ everyday
subduing his passions and laying aside
his prejudices?' If prejudices prevent my
working for my bread, the sooner I divest
myself of them the better''

'' You are the same as ever, I see."

'^ Perhaps, not quite though ; can we ever
stand still ? "

'^ Well, I call it frittering away your
faculties to try and teach dull boys. By
Jove ! I hope for your sake, Julian, they
will be brighter at their books than I was."

^' I confess it is the occupation of
necessity not of choice. I am working at a
magnum opus,' my dear Dick, a work
which, I trust, will revolutionise the whole
province of history, but like most good and
great undertakings it will not pay, and to
live (even the student requires some kind of
food) I must take what I can find, and
learn to be content with little ; hence the
descent, as you are pleased to consider it, to
teaching."

^' Can I help you ? It does not seem fair
that your abilities should be wasted thus.
I have a good allowance myself, and there's

granny, I am sure she would let me help
you."

^' Thanks, Dick. There is no one in the
world to whom I would so willingly be indebted
as yourself, but I cannot do this.
The moment a man accepts aid, he is
ruined ; his genius is fettered, his work
becomes indifferent, and self-reliance, that
invaluable quality, leaves him."

^' Nonsense, Julian ! of some men that
might be true, but not of you and with ney

Julian shook his head.

^' [ cannot tell, but I dare not test it. 1
have made two rules for my conduct in life
which I am determined not to break. ^ Be
honest with yourself,' and ^ Be under money
obligations to no man.' Let us talk of
something else ; what have you been
doing ? "

Nothing ; I don't wish to do anything,"
said Dick sadly ; ^^ I want to live my life as
I like, and hurt nobody, but they won't let
one alone to do so, and if one cares for anything
it is sure to go wrong. Life is a
gigantic mistake."

^^Yes, life is a mistake," answered
Julian, a rapt expression coming into his

grey eyes, '^ and, because it is a tangle, the
best of us here below, the strongest and the
wisest, set to work to unravel it. The
Minotaur's labyrinth is no myth, but it needs
a hero to find the clue. What troubles you,
Dick ? you look honest and unspoiled : you
cannot be hampered for money ; what is it ?
tell me''

'^ I suppose it's the everlasting story — a
woman."

'^ Ah! '' said Julian, 'When it's serious."
Characteristically, though this young man
had never known any woman intimately,
except his mother, a loving simple soul, he
believed implicitly in love as an overmastering
passion. Dick, with very little
persuasion, unburdened himself (he knew
the secret fastnesses of his friend's heart),
and told of his mad, passionate, hopeless
love, which had come and grown and
withered like the gourd of scripture.

'^ The experience has been sharp," said
Julian, when he had finished ; 'but perhaps
salutary. You mustn't sit down and moan ;
let it make a man of you. That woman's
picture in your heart may keep you always
from harm, she is sacred to you now."

^' Yes " sighed Dick '' she will not see me

again.

in'
'?

'^ All honour to her. She has suffered, I
have no doubt, suffered doubly from her
weakness and apparent treachery. There's
the sting, Dick, in the treachery ; but the
struggle is over now, and you are young
and have your life before you still."

At this juncture the irrepressible landlady
appeared bearing the tea-tray, which she
placed on the table, much to Julian's annoyance
-brushing aside as she did so one of his
most cherished manuscripts. '^ Shall I pour
out the tea ? " she asked, pluming herself,
^^ Pa always said I was the best tea-maker
he knew and exactly understood the proper
mixture of green tea. Green is good for the
digestion, Mr. Bruce." thank you, madam,
I will pour out the tea myself." Bruce
politely bowed her away, and before the
good lady had recovered from her astonishment
she found herself alone in the passage
outside. ^' Well, I never'' she muttered
viciously, ^^ he ain't a gentleman, though I do
believe his friend was better mannered."
Thereupon she applied her ear to the keyhole
in the hopes of hearing a remark about

herself. In this she was disappointed ; the
two friends had reverted to politics. '^ I
should like to see you in Parliament. Dick,"
said Julian, sphere is your sphere; not to become
a place-hunter, a conscienceless official,
or a mere party man, but to take your own
line, to be independent, and act in the
interests of the people — the people, Dick, who
have made England. Let patriotism and
courage be your watchwords, words almost
forgotten in the strife of contending constituencies,
yet words which can be your
beacon and your reward. Must you be
going? " he added as Dick rose, "Good-bye,
I trust we shall meet again soon ; never let a
woman break your heart, Dick, not because
of her unworthiness but because of the
worthiness which it must be your business to
display."

The two friends then shook hands, Dick
wending his way home more cheerfully
and Julian placidly reverting to his books.

Chapter III.

Maud waited in vain for her cousin that day.
In vain lie donned an attire of cerulean
blue, supposed to be especially bewitching,
and fit to ravish a man's eyes; no man came
to be ravished and delighted. Maud sat at
the window as the afternoon waned, gradually
growing crosser and crosser. ^' You had better
take off that gown " called Mrs. Hardfast
from her armchair, ^' he won't come now,
and that gown is your best, and vastly too
good to be crumpled up as you are doing."

'^ Oh mamma, don't worry, please," said
the girl pettishly

'^ I should like to know what would
happen to you if I did not worry," said her
mother, placidly, "if I had not slaved to
make both ends meet and given all my mind
to it, you couldn't be turned out as you are

fresh dresses, Paris make, fit for a duchess's
dauorliter. It is a comfort I am accustomed
to ingratitude."

^^I'm not ungrateful," Maud sighed, ^'but
really, it is too hot to argue."

^' I wonder who would have children if
one only knew beforehand what trouble and
annoyance they entail," continued Mrs.
Hardfast. ^' Maud, it's my belief you will
never marry Dick. He means nothing, and
is only dangling after you because he has
not anything better to do."

Mrs. Hardfast had a peculiarly cutting way
of uttering home-truths in a quiet voice,
which was extremely galling to the victim.
Maud turned pale and bit her pretty lips with
annoyance.

'' I am not at all sure that the report we
heard about Dick's falling in love with Lady
Fenchurch was not true. Dick is too much
of a gentleman to compromise a woman, but
he is deep and sly. Did you notice that he
never told us where he had been when he
went abroad ?"

'she said he had been to Rome."

^^ Yes, in an off-hand kind of way, but he
did not stay there all the time. Where did he

spend that time? Men always talk about
their doings unless they have something to
hide. They like the sound of their own
voices too well to be mute. Dick is hiding
something from us, I'm sure."

'' He is not bound to tell us everything,"
said Maud, revealing a shade more interest
in the subject than she had previously
showed.

'' Certainly not. But you ought to find
out everything about his movements, for you
spend hours in his company," added her
mother, meaningly.

We do not always talk," said Maud
crossly.

What do you do, then, you don't make
love, I know ; do you go to sleep ? Eeall}^
Maud, considering all the pains I have taken
to bring you up, and the advantages you
have had, you are a perfect fool."

Maud smiled a little, a bitter sarcastic

smile.

^^ What visits shall we pay this autumn ? "

pursued Mrs. Hardfast reflectively; "Let me

see, this is the end of September, everyone

has returned from the seaside or foreign

baths ; I'm glad we saved our money and

did not go there, for a campaign in country
liouscs is your best chance now; you phi}^
tennis splendidly, and your figure can stand
those flannel gowns which are so dreadfully
unbecoming. You mustn't get any stouter
though, my dear, your bust is quite full
enough, and at your age stoutness detracts
from a youthful appearance."

^' My age ! " said Maud.

'eyes, your age; we needn't stand on ceremony
and pretend to fine feelings when weare
alone ; let me tell you you're four and
twenty; getting on, my dear, getting on!
Now what invitations have you picked up ?
Not many, I'm afraid; I hope your sun hasn't
gone down yet; if so, you must marry a
parson or a country squire."

providing of course I fail with Dick;
why are you taking it for granted?"

^^I won't do that," said Mrs. Hardfast,
looking admiringly at her daughter as she
rose and walked across the room. ^^ You are
very graceful and dance to perfection ; but
I think we are out of luck. Lady Boabdil
has married off her four ugly daughters,
already."

'' That's different, she gives parties''

Maud's ideal was not a high one; she was
accustomed to attribute every action to a
shabby motive, and the greater part of her
friends' conduct to petty design. She knew
no better, poor thing ! Happiness to her
meant a good settlement, and a nice person,
one who was susceptible to her beauty.
She loved her cousin according to her ability,
but she would have married any rich man
who came within her grasp. Such matter of
fact minds are not the highest types, but
they are very common in society, and if
they are not exceptionally tested prove
capable of sufficient attachment and ordinary
amiability. Maud received her cousin next
day with a little pleased air of surprise, and
with feline subtlety cross-questioned him asher
mother had advised. But Dick was
either obtuse or clever ; he parried her
attacks skilfully and she discovered nothing.
While they were talking, another visitor was
announced. This was the reserve arrow
Maud had privately kept to herself in case
of failure with her cousin, and perhaps as an
additional weapon should Dick prove recalcitrant.
Arthur Sterneyy was an ensign in
the Guards, addicted to tight clothes, gaudy

ties, high collars, large cigars, late hours, and
full-blown women. He admired Maud
extremely, but it argued for the desperation
of her ambition to have fixed her choice
upon him, for, though entitled to a sufficient
inheritance at his father's death, he had
already disposed of the major part at exorbitant
interest to various obliging money-lenders.


'' My cousin, Mr. Carrol ! " said Maud,
with a wave of her hand.

'^ Oh ! aw ! very happy to make your
acquaintance I'm sure ! " he said, after a
]pause.

'' Dick has just returned from abroad''
she explained, to cover the awkward silence.

^^ Oh ! aw! Paris I suppose? Wish I
could get away too ; they will keep me
stewing at Aldershot ; 'pon my word weare
as hard worked as navvies ; what's
the use of being a gentleman if you're to
work like a nigger ? Are you in the
army, Mr. Carrol ? "

Dick explained that he was a free man,
consequently a happy one, and Mr. Sterneyy
forthwith aired his grievances. He told
how his maternal great uncle owned the

best moor in Scotland, and how he had
been prevented by the unsympathetic authorities
from shooting so much as a brace
of grouse. ^^ It's all the fault of the
radicals ; they won't understand that a gentleman
is accustomed to certain things, and
can't exist without 'em."

Dick hereupon smothered a yawn, and
Maud deftly turned the conversation into
the channel of theatres. Young Sterneyy
was equally at home on this subject.

'^ Seen little Sally ? " he asked acconnno-
daringly ; '' oh ! she's capital ; a Yankee, you
know, keeps you in fits of laughter, and
dances like a tennis ball — beats the English
girls to nothing. I went last night, and
I'm going tomorrow. I've taken a stall
for the season. You really ought to come,
Miss Hardfast, do ! I'll get a box and give
you some supper at the Orleans afterwards.
The fellows in my regiment are mad about
her."

'^ Thanks," said Maud, demurely, ^^ I will
see if we can manage it." She had no objection
to showing Dick how anxious other
young men were for her company, and how
desirous to minister to her pleasures. Dick

certainly displayed the most complete indifference
; he expressed a friendly interest
in the theatrical performance, neither offering
his escort, nor objecting to that of
the young ensign. However, she had her
revenge, for when Mr. Sterneyy had departed,
making his exit in as wooden
and imperturbable a manner as he had
effected his entrance, Dick settled himself
more comfortably, and, encouraged by her
sympathy, began to unfold to her some of his
ideas : —

^^I met an old school-friend yesterday,
and. he has advised me to get something
to do. You see it's a bore, being an idle
man ? ''

^' Yes," responded Maud, thinking that
if he were once married she would give
him plenty of occupation in escorting her
to balls and parties.

'^ He advises Parliament. I don't know
much about it, but I suppose one can learn ;
there are fellows who coach you up for everything,
politics and such like."

^' Of course, and you are so clever."

'^ I don't think I am clever, but I have some

common sense, and I daresay I could get up
an interest in anything.'^

^' Have you any place in view ? How I
should like to canvass for you ! "

Her cheeks glowed and her eyes spoke
volumes of sympathy.

^^I shall write to Granny to ask if she
has any objection. I must you know, for
the form of the thing, and I mean to go
down there in a day or two to talk over
matters, she has been expecting me sometime
already."

What do you think she will say ? "

'^ Nothing much, but I suppose Uncle
Vincent and his wife will make themselves
disagreeable, however, I can generally
manage granny. What are your plans, you
are not going to stay on here, are you ? "

^' Oh, no ! " Maud poised her pretty head
reflectively, '' we intend to pay a number
of country visits, perhaps we shall meet, who
knows ? "

^' I hope we shall," he said heartily.

Maud had acquired the information she
sought. That same afternoon she dashed offa
note to Lady Eleanor High view whose
house, though in the neighbouring county,

VOL. I. E

was not far distant from the abode of Dick's
grandmother. Once there, Maud would
manage the remainder, contrive to see him
by hook or by crook, deepen the impression
she had made upon him, increase her influence,
finally carry him off captive. Politics
were a nice safety-valve, and anything was
better for her purpose than the society of
other women.

Maud then proceeded to her dressmaker's,
where she ordered one or two pretty 
and some new hats, promising
to send a cheque shortly for the amount of
last year's account — had she not incurred
fresh expense she would long since have
been pressed for it, — and calmly sat down
to await the answer to ner letter. It came ina
few days. Lady Eleanor said she would be
delighted to see Maud and her mother, and
thought it kind of them to have taken her at
her word, and interpreted the general invitation
given in the season into a special one.
No doubt some young people would be staying
with her, and Maud must prepare herself
for tennis and balls. Maud's eyes sparkled
as she read the cordial letter.

'^ There, mamma ! you see I was not

mistaken, my sun has not gone down yet,
for Lady Eleanor never invites people who
are not good-looking, agreeable, or useful.
I am not useful, for I have no money
and no interest, consequently I must be
good-looking."

Mrs. Hardfast smiled, and immediately
proceeded to discharge her cook, and to
screw the housemaid down to the lowest
possible figure of board wages, on the plea
that, with rents unpaid and Christmas
presents in prospect, she could not afford
more. Mrs. Hardfast's Christmas presents
to her servants consisted of an old gown
which could be of no possible use to her,
and of the winter number of some goody
picture paper. The housemaid was a new
arrival, however, and, imagining the Christmas
presents to mean a crisp bank-note,
consented, after a little demurring, to the
board wages proposed.

And now, Maud," cried Mrs. Hard-fast,
having settled these agreeable preliminaries,
'^ I am ready to start whenever
you like."

E 2

CHAPTER IV.

It was about this time, that one evening Sir
Hilary Fencliurch imparted a piece of news
to his wife and sister. Returning from the
county town he met the family lawyer,
Mr. Dewsnap, who received it straight from
Mr. Marall the member's own lips, that he
had decided to retire from Parliament, and
agreed to ask Sir Hilary to be his substitute
in the event of a vacancy for the
county, in which case there might possibly
be a contest. Hitherto a quiet and undisputed
Tory seat, some dashing young Liberal
might take it into his head to come down
and make a forlorn trial to regain it.

^^They wish you to stand?" said Miss
Fen church"'

Yes." Sir Hilary hesitated a little.

^* Dewsnap thinks I have a very good
chance."

^* Oh ! Hilary, pray accept and take your
rightful position''

^^ To be sure, Mr. Morals property was
never as large as mine, and my farms are all
in first-rate condition, while his, I am told,
are shockingly out of repair, and there is nota
good gate on his estate ; but then times
are changed, and what did very well twenty
years ago won't do now, and then, with the
ballot and the impossibility of bribing, it is
hard to say who has a chance."

'' I have heard that the ballot is really a
gain to the Conservative party," put in
Evelyn.

^' Nonsense ! the only use of the ballot is
to help those who haven't the courage of
their opinions. Really, now I think of it, I
do believe I'm fairly popular, hunting-men
generally agree with the farmers, they're glad
of the chance of getting compensation for
the chickens, and finding a market for their
young horses. I'll ride over to West Thorpe
tomorrow and consult Dewsnap. There's one
thing to be said ; if I do stand, the people
will have a real good staunch Conservative

to represent them, and a man who will exert
himself in the cause of his party. That poor
Marall was gouty, and couldn't speak; he
let everything go by default ; I shan't do
that. There's education now, those infernal
Board Schools, that cost something
shameful ! I've no patience with the way
they cocker up the children of the poor,
giving them all kinds of ridiculous learning ;
much better give them boots; the proper
education of a labouring man is, in the words
of the Catechism, to ' learn to labour truly,
and to do his duty in that state of life to
which it has pleased God to call him.'
Every man wishes to change his state of
life ; which must lead to discontent and unsettle
the mind''

'^ Indeed, you're right, Hilary ; it is quite
impossible to get a good servant now," said
Miss Fen church peevishly. ^^ That housemaid
of yours, Evelyn, with the fringe of
fair hair, looks more like an actress than a
decent respectable servant. I caught her in
the passage the other day, reading a novel,
which she hid away when she saw me, with
an insolent giggle."

^^True," said Sir Hilary ^'it is deplorable'*

then turning to his wife he said, ^^ you must
canvass for me, Evelyn, and on such an
occasion we had better waive all fear of
infectious diseases and visit the cottages
together."

'' Be sure to put some camphor in your
dress," said Miss Fenchurch warningly.

^' I shall be glad to help you." Lady
Fenchurch's voice rang so gaily that her
sister-in-law stared at her in amazement.
^^ And you will persuade the Government to
improve the poor people's houses, won't you ?
and I weill bribe the electors with pretty
speeches."

Sir Hilary did not answer ; it was hardly
so much with the idea of improving the condition
of the helpless as of increasing his own
popularity and influence that he decided to
come forward as a candidate for Parliamentary
honours. Such motives are unfortunately
extremely common in the political
world and nobody thinks the worse if a man
in consequence.

On the following morning Sir Hilary
mounted his grey cob and rode along the
autumnal tinted lanes to West Thorpe He
had lighted a cigar and was thinking deeply.

Actuated by a keen sense of propriety in
contradiction to eccentricity, and knowing
that certain things were expected of him, he
determined that society should not be disappointed.
Sir Hilary belonged to the old
school of Tories, who cherish the comfortable
conviction that Britons never will be slaves
and that the Englishman is the finest fellow
in the world. He considered the duties of
an M.P. to be comprised in voting steadily
with his party, presiding at agricultural
dinners, and giving away prizes to Volunteers.
Needless to say he was oppressed by no deep
sense of moral responsibility, consequently
his meditations were caused solely by the
problem of the cost of elections. For Sir
Hilary, though tolerably oj^en-handed, was
like all good men of business, averse to
spending money uselessly. He ran over in
his mind the chances of a rival candidate,
with the speculation as to who that rival
might be. West Thorpe, though a market
and county town, was a sleepy place. Trade
had dwindled and the progress made was ina
retrograde direction. The town itself consisted
of a number of narrow twisting streets
converging on the market-place, and running

away into various intricate offshoots of small
courts and alleys. The variety of size and
shape of the houses, which were some square
and red brick, some white with gabled windows
and starred with black beams, some big,
some little, some thatched, some slated, clustering
up and down from the river-side to
the elevation of the market-place, rendered
the town a very picturesque object. Artists
came to paint and photographers to photograph
it, while the church itself, an ancient
building whose spire was nearly on a level
with the market-place, formed the legitimate
pride of the inhabitants. Yet, as it was
gradually falling into ruin, and the restoration
begun in the last few years had never
been completed, owing to the want of funds
and the lack of any great local magnate to
cherish the undertaking, it seemed probable
that decay would soon overtake and smother
the restorations. The church remained in
the position of a beauty with a patch over
one eye, or of a picture by some great artist
upon which a mischievous school-boy has
daubed a splash of whitewash.

As you entered the main street there stood
facing you a massive square red brick house

with a large brass knocker and a porch overshadowed
by a handsome magnolia tree.
This was the lawyer's house, and here Sir
Hilary stopped, rang the bell loudly, and
asked for Mr. Dewsnap, leaving his pony
in the care of the page-boy, who owned an
immense admiration for the sleek and well-fed
animal, and showed it obligingly by
tickling him under his stomach to see if
he would kick, and poking him in the ribs
as a proof of familiar affection. When
on the return journey the cob snorted and
jumped about, his unconscious owner merely
attributed this to high spirits and to a
lack of patience common to both women
and horses. Mr. Dewsnap was elderly and
had a thick head of iron-grey hair; his
little light eyes were sharp and shrewd ; his
lips thin and firmly compressed, though a
sarcastic smile occasionally played about
them when in company of his clients, which
caused the latter to feel uncomfortable and to
fear rather than love him. He had studied
the worst side of nature in his profession,
and invariably looked to self-interest as the
motive of conduct, and mistrusted all those
who talked of principles and honour; yet in

ordinary life he was a kind-hearted man, a
good husband and a good father, and his
word could be implicitly relied upon, so that
he grew to be regarded as an oracle of cleverness
and wisdom. Sir Hilary esteemed him
highly. Sentiment in matters of business he
considered out of place, and, when the
lawyer had once ventured to remark to him
on the folly of an old man taking a young
wife, Sir Hilary had been mortally offended.
It was some months before he forgave him,
but now, in a moment of difficulty and
excitement, he instinctively turned to him for
advice. Mr. Dewsnap settled his spectacles
carefully on his nose as Sir Hilary entered
and prepared to greet his client. The
spectacles were unnecessary, for Mr. Dew-snap's
eyesight was excellent, but they
served him as a shield and an excuse when
dealing with difficult or slippery people. Sir
Hilary dropped at once into the large
leather armchair that stood with its face
towards the light and began: —

'' Well, Dewsnap, I've made up my mind
to stand."

'' A very wise resolution, I'm sure, Sir
Hilary, and the county ought to return

you if it looked to its own interests ; but
I hear there is to be a contest, the Liberals
mean to bring forward a candidate."

'' I don't see who is to come forward,"
said Sir Hilary, perplexed; 'told Marall
has no relations, Lord Tilbury is abroad, I
can't think of any one''

'' You've forgotten one important person."

'* Who is that? There is none but High-view
) he would not care for it."

'perhaps not, but you've been in love
though. Sir Hilary, and you're a married
man ; have you never found yourself doing
something you had not intended at your
wife's instigation ? "

'never!"

Then you're exceptionally fortunate ;
in my profession I constantly see the most
independent men the most influenced by their
families. Lady Eleanor is a very remarkable
person, I have had several proofs of it.
I can fancy that she might wish her husband
to be an M.P., or rather that she wishes
to return an M.P., either her husband or
another."

To whom do you refer ? "

To Mr. Dick Carrol. She has decided

upon him, I believe ; he's young and good-looking,
and would make an easy puppet in
her hands."

'what! you mean Mrs. Carrol's grandson
? ''

Yes, her heir. She can't live very long ;
she is an old lady, and then the fine place
of Long Leam will be his."

'^ But she is not exactly one of the county
people ? ''

^^No, but she owns some property here;
her grandson would have a good chance."

'^ It will be a fight, Dewsnap ? "

^^ Yes, it will be a fight : you are not
alarmed ? "

No, oh dear no ! I'll fight to the last,
though it will be expensive. I've no idea of
a stuck-up young jackanapes from a neighbouring
county ousting me from my proper
position. I'll snare neither trouble or expense
to beat him."

It will depend greatly on the ladies.
Lady Eleanor versus Lady Fenchurch.
The former is a seasoned old soldier but
the latter has youth and beauty on her side.
It is still possible to bribe with kind looks

and pretty words, Sir Hilary, and if we do
win, why it will be all the greater triumph."

^' How much will it cost ? '' said Sir
Hilary, after a pause ; '' not that money is
any object, none whatever. I have been a
thrifty man all my life, and I have savings."

^^ It may be a matter of five or six
thousand ; you must get Camps as your
agent ; he is the best ; he is up to all the
dodges and will keep you strictly within the
law. See him to-day, if you can, and lose
no time about it ; he is in the town at
this moment, I happen to know."

'^ Very well, I'll try to find him at once."
Sir Hilary buttoned his coat; ^^ Give me a
glass of your old Madeira first, and I'll
bo off."

Mr. Dewsnap supplied the Madeira and
watched Sir Hilary ride down the street.

*she looks gloomy, I should say a man
with whom marriage hasn't agreed particularly,"
thought the shrewd lawyer to himself
as he replaced the wine in the cupboard.

CHAPTER V,

We left Dick meditating on the advantages
to be derived from a parliamentary career,
and somewhat inclined to adopt it. He
possessed a certain amount of talent, which,
however, had hitherto lain dormant, but,
thanks to Julian's advice, it seemed probable
that he might yet cut a figure. The abrupt
termination of his love affair in some
measure assisted this, for he was sore and
angry at heart, and ready to plunge into
any form of excitement that presented itself.
A few days later he was to be found again
in Julian's little parlour, drinking in his
friend's wisdom, and resting himself in the
calm and rational atmosphere of study.
Mrs. Flinks, on her part, who appreciated
the unworldliness of her lodger, even while
she felt inclined to despise him for it,

viewed Dick's coming with much interest.
Julian's extreme imperviousness to her
coquettish ways exasperated her occasionally,
and the fact that she might be wearing
her most becoming mob-cap, or her best-fitting
gown, without even causing him to
lift his head from the big folio in which he
was immersed, would have tried a saint's
patience. But then in return he was so
quiet, so unassuming, so uncomplaining, that
if his fire were let out, or the hot water
proved to be tepid, or the sugar unexpectedly
exhausted, it was all the same to
him, he never murmured. In fact he was
so remarkably childish and unsophisticated,
in subtle Mrs. Flinks's opinion, that she put
him down as somewhat weak in mind.
That was certainly not the case with the
nice bright-looking young gentleman, his
friend. There was nothing weak about him.
The two men were in Julian's little untidy
room, littered with books and papers ; Dick
seated in the only arm-chair, Julian himself
at the table, jotting clown notes on a bit of
paper.

'' In another year or two," he was saying,
^' I shall have finished my History, the

history of the social development of England
: it is the kind of history we want now,
not a dry abstract of wars and intrigues, but
the story of the life of the people, the record
of their faith, their language, their social
habits." Julian sighed a little ; his mild
eyes bore a wearied expression.

'^ You're tired, old fellow," said Dick,
taking the cigar out of his mouth. Julian
contented himself with a clay pipe, but his
friend had more fastidious tastes. ^' Why
do you work yourself to death like this?
what's the use of it ? If 7/ou don't find out
all these things, some other fellow will — an
empty place is filled up directly."

'' Don't say that, Dick," Julian's tone •
was pained. '^ That's the fiendish voice
that haunts me sometimes, when I'm alone
and weary, and whispers to me that there is
nothing worth, nothing true, nothing right ;
that I've slaved and toiled for nothing, and
that there is no reward — none. That we
must just grope and wonder, and — die.
But it isn't true, I tell you it isn't ; work is
its own reward, and good work is the divine
seed sown by feeble human hands''

VOL. I. F

'^ Probably ; but you're morbid, Julian.
Come away to the country with me, to the
green fields, and the tennis, and the birds,
and the garden ; " he hesitated, not being
used to sentimental descriptions ; '' you'd
enjoy it — take a holiday."

There is no good work to be done in
spurts ; I must persevere. I am putting the
very best of myself into this book ; and if
afterwards I break down — well, when a man
has done his duty he must not count the
cost."

'^ Ridiculous creature ! Why not be practical
and help me '^ I'm one of the people !
take an interest in my social development.
You talked to me about political life the
last time I was here ; well, since then, I've
been offered a seat in Parliament."

^' Indeed, tell me about it."

'^ A distant sort of connection of mine, a
Mr. Highview, has written to propose I
should stand for the county ; the old member
is about to retire and they think the
seat can be won by a Liberal."

'' Of course — a Liberal — a social reformer,
Dick."

'' I'd better reform myself first, I think,
I don't know or care a fio; about reforms."

'' That will come," said Julian, confidently.


^* There will be a contest ; I shall rather
like that — the excitement will be as good
as a campaign — (ah, why didn't granny let
me be a soldier ?) I'm fond of fighting, and
my opponent will be some respectable old
Tory nonentity, I suppose — Mr. Highview
does not state who it is — but he seems pretty
confident of my success."

'' Of course it depends upon your adversary
— the agricultural interest is usually
shortsighted and conservative — if your rival
is a large landed proprietor you do not
stand so good a chance."

^^ Mr. Highview thinks well of it and so
does Lady Eleanor, which is even more to
the point ; she rules him, you know, and
whatever she undertakes I am confident she
will succeed in."

^' That is right then, I have nothing to
add, but to wish you well, Dick. Try to do
yourself justice — a man has no business to
sit down with hands folded, or plant cabbages,
till he has earned the right to do so ;

r 2

there is heroism even in giving the right
vote according to your conviction."

^^I don't feel like a hero," said Dick,
stretching himself lazily, ^ ' I haven't a particle
of ambition, and I don't care sufficiently
about anything to make myself uncomfortable,
certainly not for any abstract idea."

^' You may in time, perhaps."

'there is another reason," Dick hesitated,
'' why I'm not sure if I ought to accept —
you see, the lady I told you about lives in
the county — I might be thrown into her
society ; I don't want to behave ill to her or
to get into a bother."

u

Have you any reason to believe that her
husband will take any active part in the
election ? "

'' None whatever, Mr. Higliview does not
mention him. He said no Tory candidate
had been decided upon, and he is anxious
for an early answer in order that I may be
first in the field."

'' Then decide to accept. You need not
court the lady's society, and remember that
your public duty is the engrossing one.
When the first pang of hearing your name
mentioned is over, she will learn to get

accustomed to it. Besides, possibly you exaggerate
her feelings ; she is married — why
should she not love her husband ? "

'^ It was a mar lag e de conveyance

'^ Even so — you must not give way to
morbid feelings ; all is over between you
two now ; do not let yourself dream of possibilities
; shape your future without a
thought of her — the only way to overcome
weakness is to look a thing straight in the
face without flinching — and grapple with
your difficulties bravely. You forgive me
for speaking out ? "

certainly. I know, old fellow, no man
could have a truer or a kinder friend than
you, only, you see, I'm not a bit of a hero.
If I accept this offer I shall make one condition,
that you come down with me and
help in my campaign."

'' Much as I regret leaving my books,"
said Julian, warmly, ^' in this case I cannot
hesitate ; you may command my services
whenever you like."

Dick left his friend's lodging that day ina
more contented frame of mind ; fate lead
decided for him ; he had nothing to do now
but to float on the stream, and the sense of

a resolution taken seemed to lift a cloud
of difficulty from his mind ; yet lie was still
too much engrossed even to regard Mrs.
Flinks^s eager invitation to step into her parlour
as he went out. The little woman
watched him leave the house with mingled
anger and disappointment, then flounced
downstairs to her kitchen, where the elderly
maid-of-all work stood with bare red arms
washing up her dishes.

^^ He's gone again. Eves, without so much
as a word, and I in my new cherry
ribbons. It's my belief that that pale,
mean-spirited Cripps, who gets his bread
by scribbling, and hasn't a thought beyond
steel pens and watery ink, put him up to
slighting me. If my dear Pa were still alive
wouldn't he just give him a bit of his mind."

'^ Lor, bless you, Mum," answered Eves,
without turning her head, ^'^if I was you I'd
give up hankering after fine gentlemen that
ain't worth the butcher's meat they consume,
and take a honest tradesman who could live
in a villa, and keep a gig to save yer feet
getting wet o' Sundays."

Mrs. Flinks, accustomed to the old woman's

homely advice, shrug-gell her shoulders, and
threw herself pettishly into a chair.

Eves, still at her washing, continued :

*^ And then when ye're married there comes
a heap of children to dorrit yer. Who would
be so anxious to have a family, I wonder ?
Chiltern, when they're young, are a armful;
but when they're bigger they're a fearful,
and my sakes, that's just worse."

Dick, unconscious of the storm brewing
behind him, pursued his way quietly to the
Hardfasts' house. Maud was at home, looking
very handsome in dark blue cashmere.
She had a useful knack of being always in
the fashion, and yet never appearing overdressed
or eccentric.

'^ I am so glad you came," she said,
sweetly. '^ Mamma is out, and, as in her
absence I can never receive visitors except
you (you, of course, are a relation), I should
have felt very dull all the afternoon."

'' Then you only care for somebody to
call ; you are not particular as to who it is''

^^Dick! Don't be an idiot. I'm always
pleased to see you, only I don't always say
so ; it might seem like flattery."

'^ I'm glad of that," Said Dick, edging this
chair a little nearer, *' for I want to consult
you about a very important matter, on which
I wish your advice."

Maud's heart gave a flutter — could the
momentous words be spoken now what
an amount of worry and trouble would be
saved, and everything satisfactorily arranged.


'^ We've always been good friends, Maud,
haven't we ? "

^' Always'' she answered, sweetly.

'^ Ever since the days we stole cherries off
the garden wall, and hid under the water-butt
to escape the gardener — and I have
always had such an opinion of your cleverness
that now I am going to take a very
important step, I cannot do so unless you
give it your sanction''

Maud listened impatiently, a rosy flush
mantling her cheek. It seemed quite unnecessary
to make all these preliminary
speeches. What cared she about childhood
and cherries, sorry reminders of long years
of backwards and dreary lesson-learning?
It need not prove so very difficult to ask a girl
to be your wife, and seal the bargain with a

kiss. How provoking, to be sure, to be a
woman, and have to sit still and look unconscious,
and not dare to help out the stammered
and bungling confession, but on the
contrary pretend to a pleased surprise and
agitation, emotions which she could only
feel on the score of her mother's premature
return before the irrevocable words had
been spoken !

"Do you know Mr. Qighview?" asked
Dick.

Maud stared.

'^ Of course I do ! ''

What in the world had this beginning todo
with the proposal Dick was about to
make ? She supposed it must be attributed
to nervousness, and a habit of procrastination,
and she rather snappishly continued :

He was poor dear papa's friend'*

^' Ah ! I had forgotten."

Dick paused again, and Maud began to
beat the carpet with her shoe ; she could not
help it, these wanderings from the beaten
path of love seemed so very unnecessary.

'^ He has asked me to stand for the county,
and do the canvassing from his place, wliicli
is more convenient than granny's for the

purpose. I am rather tempted. An election
must be exciting — almost as good as fox-hunting.
Of course I'm not clever, and I
don't much care about it ; but I think I
should cut a very tolerable figure, don't you,
Maud ? "

Maud was occupied dissembling her rage.
To have her expectations raised, her feelings
so cruelly trampled upon, was too bad.
Dick was perfectly brutal — heartless. She
made a superhuman effort, however ; the
happy moment might only be deferred, not
lost for ever. ^' Yes, dear Dick, you know I
think you vei^y clever; it will be an excellent
thing, and as you say quite an excitement ;
besides perhaps I can help you a tiny bit,
for we are going to stay with the Highviews
too ; how fortunate, isn't it, and how I shall
hail all your achievements, and listen
greedily to your first speech ! I shall make
mamma often take me to the House of
Commons, and try to secure a front place in
the ladies' gallery among all the old women,
who suck peppermint lozenges, and discuss
the merits of the speakers during the debates."


^' Would sou indeed do this?" cried Dick,

seizing her hand, '' what a good woman you
are to be sure, Maud ! I never half appreciated
you till this moment — you really
approve and you really advise me to try ? It
wouldn't do for a fellow to fail, you know,
if he did try, and make an ass of himself.
I was half afraid you would discourage me
and "

'rand why, pray?" she inquired, looking
up at him languidly through her expressive,
half-closed eyes ; ^ ^ whatever promotes your
happiness gives me happiness too "

Here was an opening for a man whose
heart was given to the pretty girl sitting
beside him, and glowing with gentle interest
and devoted sympathy. But Dick's mind
was not running on love, he only cared for
Maud's approval, because, like the rest of us,
he preferred his decision to be strengthened
by the approval of his friends. He certainly
thought it a little remarkable that a young
and good looking girl should show such
interest in politics, but in these days of
female education and advanced views on all
subjects one need be surprised at nothing.

i'll write to High view to-night," he said,
quietly, " and accept. He will want me to

go down there at once, I expect. Granny
will have to wait again— poor old dear ! She
won't mind — she's used to it."

^^ We shall be at High view Castle together,
I hope," said Maud, ^' it is such a nice place,
and Lady Eleanor is so kind — but you
mustn't fall in love with Luce."

'' Who is Luce ? and why should I fall in
love with her ? " asked Dick, absently.

'' She is Lady Eleanor's niece, and of
course they will try to make u]) a match
between you — she is a nice girl, but, unfortunately,
very plain."

^' Plain — is she ? "

'' Yes, thin and pale, and has dark colourless
hair." Maud put her hand up innocently
to her own glossy auburn locks.

^' Plain or not, I shall have other things
to think of, and I scarcely imagine Miss
Luce will need to complain of my attentions."


'' Don't you intend to speak to us poor
ladies then, while you're in the house ? "
asked Maud, with a becoming pout of her
full red lips.

'' Oh, yoUj that's different." Maud was
triumphant and consoled ; the you, so decidedly

accentuated sounded sweet in her
ears; he regarded her, then, as something
apart and more precious than ordinary girls.
After a little further desultory talk, a few
more bewitching upward glances from Maud,
a lingering pressure of his hand, and many
hearty congratulations and good wishes,
Dick departed. He was satisfied and reassured
: no man is impervious to cleverly
conveyed flattery and pleasant looks and
allusions, unless he has reached middle age,
and is very crabbed and very sourly inclined
indeed. He wrote a gratified and nicely
worded acceptance of Mr. Highview's proposal,
and expressed himself as much pleased
and honoured by the offer that had been
made him, an offer for which he knew himself
to be indebted to Mr. Highview's kind
support. Lady Eleanor smiled and nodded
lier head approvingly when her husband
handed her the letter at breakfast, saying,
'well, my dear, what do you think of
that ? "

"Think! why I never expected anything
else ; all young men are ambitious and easily
flattered, unless they're fools, and from all I
hear Dick Carrol is not a fool."

CHAPTER VI.

The High views and the Fen church s were
the two great rival houses in the county,
for Lord Tilbury, who was a hypochondriacal
old bachelor, lived abroad and had almost
ceased to be regarded as an Englishman.
He received his rents punctually enough
through an agent's hands, but he never
did anything for this tenants, nor took
any part in county business or politics,
and in fact to most people was only a
name, and a very disagreeable name too,
on the occasions when the hounds ran
through his fine woods, and the huntsmen
were suddenly pulled up by locked gates
and high iron railings. Mr Marall, the
late member, was a fox-hunting squire,
illiterate, crusty, and devoted to sport.
He neither knew nor cared how to make

and keep his position ; thus, while Sir
Hilary Fenchurch remained unmarried,
Lady Eleanor reigned alone as the great
lady of the county. Now, however, with
a new and pretty rival both in politics
and society, circumstances were considerably
altered, and the contest seemed
likely to be a trial of moral strength on
the part of the ladies, quite as much asa
battle of wily popularity on the part
of the men, and the general result appeared
very doubtful. Sir Hilary was popular
with the farmers; he was a good landlord,
quiet, but improving, and encouraged
the breed of horses ; but he was pig-headed
and narrow-minded.

Mr. Highview, on the contrary, was the
friend of the artizans and manufacturers,
inclined to be broad and tolerant, and, so
long as a man's political opinions were
honestly of the right pattern, cared little for
his religious views. Lady Eleanor was riot
liked, though much feared and courted. A
long tongue in the upper classes is as great
a power as in the ranks of washer women.
Lady Eleanor had a command of language
and a choice of admirable maxims which, asa

rule, loft her opponents but little to
answer. Yet, while a great many people
distinctly hated, and a few sought her
from motives of real affection, the majority
distrusted her. It was felt that, whichever
way her own interests inclined, in that
direction her conduct would tend, and
that consequently no positively consistent
behaviour on her part could be looked for.
She was handsome, clever, and when she
pleased indubitably fascinating, so fascinating
that once in her presence you could
not help believing in her. Mr. High-view,
himself, who had been fascinated
in his early youth, believed in her still.
He would bow to her whims and caprices
and defend them with a tender care
that was peculiarly touching, and drew
forth sundry shrugs and compressions
of lips from impartial friends.

French writers assert that love is only
kept alive by continual stimulation of
surprises and variety. Possibly this may
have accounted for Lady Eleanor's empire
over her husband, for none could predicate
with ease in which direction her newest
eccentricity might travel. Uncontradicted

and undaunted, she had sailed gaily down
the stream of life until at fifty years of
age she was still buxom and fair, and
owned a pair of white and dazzling
shoulders, which she was fond of displaying
in the lowest of well-cut gowns. Her
face was unruffled, remarkable in its freshness
and absence of crows-feet, yet her
favourite figure of speech was to the effect
that ^^ her health must soon break down
under the strain of constant worry and
labour imposed upon her." Just now her
hobby was politics, and she certainly did
give herself a great deal of trouble in the
matter, but the trouble was self-sought and
therefore scarcely worthy of commiseration. '
But even Lady Eleanor was not perfectly
happy; she had one skeleton in her cupboard,
and to her it seemed the bitterest conceivable.
She had no children. Mr. Highview's
niece Luce Windermere lived with them as
an adopted daughter at his earnest request,
for she was the only child of his dead sister,
and dear to him accordingly. This was
another trial to poor Lady Eleanor, who
had all the trouble and responsibility of

VOL. I. G

a school-room without the pleasures of
motherhood.

Lady Eleanor was strict, anxious, and
kind in her way, but poor Luce's childhood
was brightened by no maternal love. She
enjoyed neither kisses, caresses, nor affectionate
words ; she never felt the touch of a
fondly stroking hand with its witchery of
subtle speechless sympathy, never saw eyes
fill with tears or heard a tremble come into
the voice, or saw a shade of mysterious
sorrow pass over an anxious face, and
pressed the lips put warm and close to hers
in an evening benediction. If she knew the
meaning of love it was in connection with
her uncle. To him she brought her babyish
tattle, the hundred pretty exacting ways of
childhood, and, much as she shrank from her
aunt's cold words, so much the more did she
coil round her uncle the clinging tendrils of
her loving heart. Luce was said to be plain,
and certainly by the side of her handsome
aunt she did look plain. The girl felt this
want of beauty as a shortcoming, and mixed
up with it a remorseful feeling that it was
ingratitude on her part that prevented her
from responding more fully to Lady Eleanor's

efforts on her behalf. Sad were the looks
the poor child frequently threw in the mirror
as she tried to accustom herself to her plainness,
and wondered why nature, so bountiful
to the aunt, had been so niggard to the niece.
Perhaps the contrast made her seem even
plainer than she really was, for she had a slim
and graceful figure, and a pair of beautiful
eyes enlivened her small pale face. Even
Lady Eleanor confessed that Luce had beautiful
eyes, large and soft and pleading, but
then, as Lady Eleanor said, what was the use
of them, when they were generally cast down,
and veiled by the long dark lashes, only
flashing and lightening when Luce was keen
and interested, which in her aunt's presence
occurred but seldom. They were such truthful
eyes too, eyes full of transparent honesty
and singleness, indeed their full glance thrown
questioningly upon Lady Eleanor in some of
her erratic moods proved disturbing to the
proud lady's equanimity. For eyes can
speak, and sometimes with a weight of directness
and censure that words do not possess.
As you looked, that is to say as an impartial observer,
looked into Luce's eyes and caught the
deep spiritual expression that lay in them you

g2

forgot that her nose was too square, her mouth
too large, her hair absolutely refusing to be
crimped and twisted into any fashionable
shape, brown and dull, too light to be rich in
colour, too dark to be golden, that her
manner was shy and constrained, her hands
tiny and waxen, and her slim figure marred
by a distinct and regrettable stoop. Luce
was accustomed to say that it did not matter
what she wore or how she looked, for nobody
ever threw a glance at her when in company
of her queen-like aunt, and that, instead of
being named Light, she should have been
christened Shadow, her principal mission
being to serve as a foil to the radiancy of
beauty beside her. Lady Eleanor's object
just now, for she always had an object, was to
marry Luce to Dick, having fixed upon him
as an eligible parti ^ and a person whom she
was likely to be able to retain as her nominee
and dependant. She had not imparted these
views to Mr. Highview, but merely informed
him that Mr. Carrol was a promising young
man who would do honour to the Liberal cause
if he were once instructed in the right path.

Dick's civil little note had been duly
received and Luce informed of his coming.

which nowise interested her. She was
standing at this moment, as was her frequent
habit, by the window dreaming. Her large
sad eyes were fixed on the autumnal landscape,
on the ruddy beech, and the yellow
chestnut-trees, and the dark Scotch firs
standing up straight against the cold grey
sky ; here and there a lime-tree, already
stripped of its leaves, showed only the bare
and slender twigs and branches. Occasionally
a golden leaf fluttered down and added itself
to the damp and decaying heap which the
gardener indefatigably and hopelessly swept
together. It was a dreary day, a depressing
day, and Luce, whose nature was essentially
receptive and sensitive, felt it so. Just then
her aunt's full cheerful voice disturbed her
reverie.

'^ Ah ! I thought I should find you here.
Luce, dawdling about and doing nothing, as
usual. Why don't you go for a constitutional
at least, like other girls, and get a
bit of colour into your cheeks ? you will
never be anything but sallow at this rate."

Luce coloured painfully ; it hurt her to be
always reminded of bodily infirmities, the
possession of which she remembered acutely.

^^ Did you want anything, aunt?" she
faltered.

'want anything! Did anyone ever see
such a creature ? she thinks no one has anything
to do but to stare blankly out of
window all day long, as she does herself I
Have you forgotten that we shall have a
house-full next week? and the Hardfasts
and Mr. Carrol come to-day, and of course
the housekeeper has chosen this opportunity
to fall ill J and one of the best carriage-horses
is lame, and your uncle, as usual, is
perfectly placid, so that everything falls
upon me, and I'm really not strong."

'' Can I do anything to help you ? "

'' I am sure I don't know what you can do,
you generally make a muddle of everything
you touch. The last time you wrote the
invitations you put the Countess of Ditchwater,
forgetting that her husband is only a
baron, and you presented my compliments to
General Truro's wife, who was a housemaid
before he married her, and whom I certainly
never meant to ask. I often say to myself
what is to become of you some day, when I
am dead and gone, if you should ever have a

house of your own to look after, not that
that's likely."

'^No, it isn't likely," said Luce calmly;
"then why should we talk about it? I
never mean to marry, and when you don't
want to keep me you can send me away ;
I shall not complain."

'' Send you away, indeed, child ! that is
just like the Highviews, isn't it ? why they
have always been generous to a fault. I
wonder what your uncle would say to such a
speech."

'' He would not like it, I am sure ; but
indeed, aunt, if I am so troublesome why
do you keep me here ? " «

'' Stuff, child ! " said Lady Eleanor,
pettishly, looking severely at Luce, who
stood meekly, with hands folded before her.
'^ I wish you wouldn't stoop so dreadfully; I
declare your figure is shocking ! Can't you
hold up your head as I do ? "

Poor Luce's head drooped lower and
lower, and two big tears gathered in her
eyes.

'^ Crying ! I declare you are a regular
baby ; nothing spoils the complexion like
tears. Don't let your uncle see you with

red eyes, for goodness' sake, or he will think
I have been tormenting you, and that you
are miserable instead of being, as you really
are, a spoilt useless girl. You needn't look
like a martyr either when I speak to you
for your good, as is my duty. And prays
try to be civil to Mr. Carrol when he
comes ; I am told he is a charming young
man, and, of course, at his grandmother's
death he'll be immensely rich. If you lay
yourself out to be agreeable, I don't really
see why, after all, you may not have a house
of your own, some day. He will take sou
in to dinner to-night, so do your best."

Luce coloured painfully. Such speeches
were an utter desecration of marriage in her
opinion, for she inclined to the idea that
only similarity of tastes and mutual love, of
which, alas, she was so ignorant, could give
peace or sanctity to the union of the sexes.

Lady Eleanor, satisfied with her peroration,
now rose and majestically left the
room.

Luce felt more wretched and depressed
than ever. She knew she was plain, she
had already accepted the fact ; yet surely
beauty was not everything ; might it not be

possible to possess qualities as valuable and
virtues to compensate? An intuition of something
higher swept her soul. To hear of
heroism and goodness fired her with enthusiasm
; to read fine poetry roused her ; to listen
to sweet music entranced her ; the sight of
nature soothed her. Why had she these
capacities, these sensibilities, but to unfold
and use them ? Life could not be the poor
mean thing her aunt suggested, or the sense
of its emptiness would crush her at once.
No ! no ! her truth and earnestness found a
response in nature. It could not be, there
was nothing useless in the universe.

She took down her hat and cloak from the
peg where they hung, and went out carrying
a basket on her arm. The autumnal
wind caressed her boisterously, and painted
her sallow cheeks a faint rose, so that she
looked almost pretty as in the approach she
met the fly containing Mrs. Hardfast and
Maud, their maid, and a pile of luggage.
Maud spied her at once, and jumped out to
give her a hearty welcome, while Mrs. Hard-fast
called after her daughter —

^^ It is very damp and raw, Maud, do

take care, or you will catch cold and have a
red nose at dinner."

'' No ! no ! " cried Maud, bent on having
her own way, and confident in the magnificence
of her young strength and beauty to
defy a blustering autumn day. '^ Never
mind me, you drive on and get a rest before
dinner ; a walk will do me good." Then
she twined her arm in that of Luce and
asked her innumerable questions.

'' Where are you going to, like an old
market-woman, with that basket on your
arm ? ''

'"' To visit some poor people. I have port
wine and soup) in the basket''

^' Oh ! I never visit poor people. I should
hate to do so," said Maud, daintily tripping
over the wet places in the road.

^^ I don't like it much either; but it's
something to do, an object for a walk, ad,
besides, I really believe it gives them pleasure."


You might find something else to
occupy your time, I should think, something
pleasant. I always design a new
dress whenever time hangs heavy on my
hands."

^^ Dress bores me ; my aunt thinks so
much of it; I believe she fancies people
are only pegs to hang clothes on."

Maud laughed and shook the golden
fringe out of her eyes. 'rit is very jolly
being here, Luce, don't look so doleful. I
mean to enjoy myself. I've got a great
many plans in my head, and you must help
me with some of them. I can assure you
I have a very busy time before me, and you
are such an unworldly little creature that
you can't stand in my way. Do you know
Mr. Carrol ? " *

^' No," said Luce, indifferently.

^* Oh ! Well, I intend to marry him."

Luce looked at her a little surprised, and
said quietly : '' My aunt wants me to marry
him too, but he's sure not to look at me,
that's one comfort ! "

Maud glanced eagerly at her friend to see
if she were in earnest. Such supernatural
indifference to her prospects surpassed her
imagination, but if Luce stoke truth, and
Maud really believed she did. Luce, as least,
was a valuable and reliable ally.

'^ Then you will help me ? what a funny
girl you are to be sure, Luce ! "

'' You wouldn't think it funny if you
lived my life— it isn't pleasant to be overlooked
by every man you meet and reproached
for it afterwards. I wish I could
go out as a governess."

'' Nonsense ! you are a fool, Luce. I
should be glad enough if I had a rich uncle
who would let me live with him. You don't
know what it is to have to make both ends
meet. Mamma works at the problem all the
year round, and it's the most difficult sum
in creation ; just as you think you have got
to the end of ' it, you find a slight omission
or mistake in your calculations, and you
have to begin all over again. I mean to
marry naturally, but, rich or not ricci,
every girl is a fool who does not, when she
gets a chance. I've never had a real good
offer though yet, and of course one can't
make a bad bargain."

^'I should never better myself," said
Luce, hopelessly ; ^' I'm plain, and I can't
marry for money, and no one will ever care
for me, just for myself; it is no use Maud,
thinking of it. If I married for money, I
should simply loathe the man, and kill him,
or myself, before the honeymoon was over."

^' Fudge ! " said Maud, sharply, '^ Providence
helps those that help themselves ; if
you cast your eyes down and look glum
whenever a man approaches you, of course
you can't expect him to find you bewitching.
I always smile and appear delighted
with every one, no matter how stupid he
may be, and then I try to find out as
quickly as I can what is his particular
weakness and trade upon it ; flatter him upas
much as possible ; it's as easy as A B C
when you know the way."

For all that, Maud, you're four-and-twenty,
and not yet married."

'' At least it is not the fault of my system,
but I certainly have been unlucky ; it's our
horrid poverty that hinders me, and the
awfully mean shifts we're put to. However,
this time I really intend to persevere, and
not to fail. A country house is such a
capital opportunity. Dear me! what a dew
there is rising ; we had better go in, I think.
I shouldn't at all like to catch a sore throat ;
besides, I must change my gown for tea."

^^ You look very nice now," cried Luce,
simply."

''N05 my hair's out of curl, aid this

travelling dress is shabby — ali, my dear,
you don't half understand the importance of
dress — it is everything when one wishes to
captivate. Now, I'll just explain to you:
you see blue suits me best, so I am constant
to it; but it requires a perfect genius to improvise
perpetual variety in harmony, and
you would be surprised to hear of all the
shades of blue I have disco verd; there's dark
blue, and violet blue, and pansy blue, and
Eton blue, and peacock blue, and electric
blue, and sunflower blue, and — oh, ever
so many more."

^' I had no idea dress was such a mystery.
I don't think my aunt has made a study of
it, she generally leaves it to her dressmaker,
though she always bu)<s a new dress for
every occasion. "^"^

^^ Dress comprises art, imagination, industry,
perseverance," glibly enumerated
Maud, ^' Ingenuity, taste, tact, delicacy,
why, there really isn't a good quality in
the world that you can't use in your study
of it, especially if you're not rich."

CHAPTER VII.

The Hardfasts, Dick Carrol, and a couple
of neighbours comprised the present party,
but the following week a large influx of
neighbours was expected. Luce felt extremely
indifferent to the company, and
her only fear was lest Mr. Carrol should
monopolise her uncle's whole time and
attention, and interfere with her enjoyment
of the usual afternoon ride with Mr. High-view.


Dick arrived at tea time. Maud, newly
decorated, passed accidentally through the
hall at that instant and gave him the first
greeting. This was fortunate, it took off
the stiffness of his arrival as she sauntered
into the library beside him chatting pleasantly
; and made it clear that she was an
old and a valued friend. The Castle was
very handsome, entirely new, the furniture
new, or recently bought, and the gardens
newly laid out.

It had taxed Lady Eleanor's skill and taste
somewhat severely to prevent the lack of
antiquity from impressing you as bare and
comfortless. She had succeeded, however,
as she generally did in whatever she undertook.
The mansion, a large and imposing
edifice, required furniture on the same scale
of grandeur and magnificence. Lady Eleanor
had ransacked Holland and Italy for her old
oak and marqueterie cabinets, her inlaid
ivory and ebony, her china, her tapestry,
and her carvings. She had caused the ceilings
to be painted by Italian artists, and
the walls to be panelled with old leather
from Cordova. There was everything to
please the eye, and nothing to offend the
taste, though possibly the quantity of beautiful
things might, in some persons' opinion,
have detracted from their quality, and conveyed
the discordant impression of confusion
in an old curiosity shop. The interior of
the house was the true picture of its mistress's
mind, irregular, capricious, and withal fascinating.


Lady Eleanor was a woman of limited
culture, such as the age produces; she really
knew very little, though she had picked up

a good deal, and discoursed eloquently on
decoration and bric-a-brac.

Maud and Luce seated themselves on a
crimson plush divan under a large tree palm
set in a massive gilt basin, while Dick with
masculine heedlessness leant against the exquisitely
carved oak chimney-piece on which
stood some bits of priceless Chelsea, and
Mrs. Hardfast and Lady Eleanor sipped tea
out of landless old Worcester cups.

"This is a perfect palace of enchantment'
said Dick bending toward his hostess, '' 2
can't think how you collected such quantities
of pretty things."

She smiled complacently. ^'I generally
manage to dick up things wherever I go.
Ah ! I have saved Mr, Highview oceans of
money, I assure you. If you buy from a
dealer you are certain to be robbed. Now a
great deal of this furniture here I found in
old country-houses, inns, Venetian palaces,
and out-of-the-way places. This house
literally cost nothing to furnish, and yet
I have matchless cabinets and priceless
tapestry."

Mr. Highview, who had walked u]) to the
table, on which stood a shaded lamp, to try

VOL. I. H

and decipher the "^ Times" in the dim light
his wife preferred, smiled and said —

'^ This house cost a pretty penny, though,
my dear. I never meant to spend half as
much when I began. '^

Of course ! " Lady Eleanor effectively
waved her plump white hand as if to avert
further argument, people cannot expect
everything for nothing ; only the rothschild
can beat our collection of bric-a-biac,
and I assure you, Mr. Carrol, I am not to be
surpassed in bargains."

^'I can quite believe it, ' said Dick turning
to look at Maud, who made an artistic picture
at that instant. She was leaning back
against the crimson velvet cushion, in a pose
of studied languor, her fair complexion and
golden hair standing out in brilliant relief,
her full lips curled in contemptuous indifference,
her beautiful arm, the sleeve falling
back and displaying its snowy contour,
raised and reposing loosely among the
cushions, while from her hand depended a
feather fan. Dick could not help gazing
admiringly, for she was tantalizingly beautiful,
though his mind strayed absently to
other memories. He was for ever and ever,

like an ill-trained hound, harking back, and
living over again the past ; for the love of
imagination and regret cannot be blotted out
in an instant, as we run our fingers over the
drops on a window-pane and merge each
little stream into one large one. Lady
Eleanor was unaware of his preoccupation;
she knew but little of Lady Fenchurch, and
credited no woman except herself with unlimited
power over men. She had welcomed
him effusively and monopolized him instantly,
and Dick felt at once that he now no longer
belonged to himself. Yet his thoughts took
a somewhat sombre tinge as he sat alone in
his bedroom for a few moments before dinner
thinking.

'^ I am in for it now I suppose, and I must
try and succeed, though I hate the whole
affair. I shall ask Highvievv who my opponent
is. Maud was right," he continued
diverging to another topic, ^^tliat niece of
Lady Eleanor's is a plain girl. I suppose
she will have money to compensate. Maud
looks well; she grows handsomer every day."
And therewith the fortunate young man, who
could find pretty women to flatter and talk
to him wherever he went, rose, and, ringing

u 2

for his valets began to dress for dinner.
When the ladies left the dining-room with a
noise and rustle of silky draperies, and Maud
had thrown him one last seductive smile,
Dick drew his chair up to that of his host,
and began. *' Tell me, Mr. High view, is
everything satisfactory, I am not likely to
find any opposition, eh ?"

*i'm sorry to say that is not the case —
here have a glass of claret, it's 1870 La close,
and / can recommend it — the man who has
chosen to come forward is a certain Sir
Hilary Fenchurch. ' '

Dick seized the claret decanter and poured
himself out a full glass, which he drank off
before he answered. '' Is this certain ?''

'^ Yes, I'm afraid so ; he has engaged
Camps as his agent, Dewsnap the West
Thorpe lawyer is working for him; it means
money I am afraid."

Granny will do all that's necessary in
that way, but if I am to have no chance, and
how can I, a young untried man, against Sir
Hilary Fenchurch ? would it not be better
to retire gracefully before we spend our
money, and engage our honour in the
battle ? ''

My honour is engraved already; I have
promised that you shall come forward, and
Lady Eleanor is bent upon it ; it would never
do to disappoint her; she has elected you asher
champion young man, and you know
what ladies are when they've made up their
mind to a thing." Dick smiled uncomfortably,
he scarcely relished the idea of being any
lady's champion young man; '^ I do not care
to be used as a puppet," he said, sand lead a
forlorn hope."

'^A forlorn hope! God bless you, it's
nothing of the sort. You shall write M.P. to
your name before three months are over. Sir
Hilary lias not a chance, the Conservatives
day is past. You must not take fright at the
very outset ; what will Lady Eleanor say ? ''

Dick remained silent, and fingered his
glass thoughtfully. ^* They like Londoners
down here," put in one of the party, an
elderly gentleman, whose red face gleamed
like a peony from the folds of his voluminous
white neck cloth, ^^ they think more of
strangers than of the men who have grownup
among them."

'' Fellows about here are such cads," remarked
another young man with a lisp.

^' Sir Hilary Fen church is not a cad, I
believe ? " inquired Dick.

I don't mean him, but the small squires
and the well-to-do farmers; the theocracy
are all as dull and obstinate as pigs. You'll
have your work cut out for you, I can tell
you; I wouldn't stand for such a county as
this."

The prospect does not seem encouraging
; what do you say, Mr. Highview,
shall we give it up ? "

^' What! and leave the party in the lurch ?
decidedly not ! The county can and will be
won by a Liberal, and you're the man."

'^ Oh ! certainly," said the afore-mentioned
old gentleman, who ajDjoeared in
imminent risk of choking, and whose nose
was growing purple. It was evident that
fate intended Dick to be thrust into a position
for which he had no especial liking, and
the more fate forced it ujDon him the more
he felt inclined to renounce the project.

'^ You have made up your mind on all
necessary questions, I suppose ? " said Mr,
Highview, dismissing Dick's scruples airily.
'rare you going to be an independent
member, or follow Gladstone implicitly ?

that's the safest for a young fellow. There's
the franchise, and the Irish difficulty, and
the agricultural labourers, and a dozen more
things to occupy your attention. I fear I am
still an old Whig, and perhaps you'll consider
me retrograde, but I confess I am a
little afraid of such sweeping changes.
Fortunately the Tories serve the purpose of
putting on the drag when we are rushing
down hill at a breakneck pace''

'^ I am not a party man," said Dick ; ^' I
think people ought to have good air, and
good water, and good houses ; it's a shame
they should have to live in pig sties ; but I
don't know how it is to be managed."

^' Ah ! then you must stick to your party.
The party will find all that out, and the
party will do it, and you must just follow in
the wake like an obedient sheep. No
measure is possible till you have got up a
party cry ; then a strong opposition helps
rather than retards legislation — remember, to
hate and abuse your adversaries is the first
duty of a politician."

'' Must I abuse Sir Hilary? because I am
really better with my fists than with my

tongue, and should much prefer a good
stand-up fight''

I am sorry to observe, Carrol, that you
are not half in earnest and impressed with
the serious undertaking you have before you ;
well, you had better see Gubbins in the
morning, he will soon talk you over — he is
our agent, you know."

'* I hope he will, I'm sure ; but I wish I
were well out of the affair."

Dick already repented ; political life
seemed a great deal of trouble, and only a
shabby concern if you were to follow your
leader in sheeplike fashion, and the antagonism
to Sir Hilary Fenchurcli, with the
hard words and rough attacks that must be
bandied about and dealt round, displeased
him mightily. Evelyn might take it as an
insult. Evelyn, the woman he loved ! He
loved her still. He felt it — he knew it — and
her husband was his opponent. Besides, a
parliamentary career was dull and tiresome
when stripped of the glamour of excitement.
Bruce had said it was a life worth living
certainly, but then Bruce was an enthusiast,
and enthusiasts, he believed, invariably
existed in abject poverty, and died young

and miserably. Everyone at Higliview
Castle seemed to take it for granted that
Dick was urged by the pm^est political ambition
and aspired to legislate when the real
truth remained — that he had no aspirations,
and hated trouble. However, it seemed
impossible to draw back, and the next day
Dick and Mr. Highview jogged slowly along
together in the direction of West Thorpe.
Luce had lost her ride, as she feared, and
was boxed up in the schoolroom helping
Maud to trim a ball-gown.

The day was soft, the bare hedges hung
with sparkling dewdrops ; the distance lay
bathed in delicate violet and blue tints ; the
birds twittered merrily in the bushes. Dick
felt better ; he had slejDt well, and his usual
easy temper had returned, aud Mr. Higli-
view's face was a study of healthy placidity.

'what kind of a man is Sir Hilary ? "
suddenly asked Dick ; ^^ is he popular ? *'

'^ So-so ; he is of the good old school of
sleepy Conservatives, kind-hearted but
narrow minded ; would help a friend with
his last shilling, but considers poverty a
convenient arrangement of Providence for
the benefit of the uj^per classes. Prefers

to encourage ignorance and respectful dependence
in the peasantry ; thinks it
natural that an aged labourer should look to
the workhouse as his only reward, and
wonders that a man cannot keep his family
on twelve shillings a week."

^ ' I wish I could decide on the right line
to take."

'scarron, you must certainly have your
opinions cut and dried ; if you can't find out
for yourself what is best, just become a
disciple of somebody else, take it on trust ;
only be sure of your facts, and, whatever you
do, be thorough."

Irresolution is my bane."

'^ Better be vicious than irresolute ; a man
out-grows the one but the other clings about
him like ivy about the tree, and smothers
life eventually."

West Thorpe wore an every-day appearance,
the sluggish river that belted the town
flowed along in a dull, oily stream, showing
reflections a trifle more deep and defined
than usual ; a few scattered groups, evidently
discussing politics, stood about here
and there, and, as a labourer lifted his hat to
Mr. Highview, he nudged his neighbour and

pointed out in a hoarse whisper, '' the young
man who's going to contest the county'
Some women, busy at the wash-tub, hurried
to the doors wiping the soapsuds from their
naked arms, and stared eagerly at Mr. High-view,
who trotted quickly on, and drew up at
the ^^ Dog and Partridge Hotel," where Mr.
Gubbins awaited them. The la Iter was short
and thickset and confident, and his brisk jolly
manner soon set people at their ease.

^^ I'm glad you've come, Mr. High view,"
he said, turning to the table spread with
letters and telegrams, ^^ there's plenty to do,
and it's high time we got our address out.
Sir Hilary's is placarded all over the town.
I hope you are a thorough-paced Liberal,
Mr. Carrol. It's the only paying thing nowadays.
If you hang back neither party will
claim you. You must promise everything,
and carry out what you can afterwards, but
above all display a fine programme."

Dick, having consented to be a candidate,
could not refuse to put himself into the
knowing Mr. Gubbins's hands, who forthwith
drew up a document full of glowing promise,
advanced views, and compliments flattering
to the intelligence of the free and enlightened

electors which, having read over and pronounced
to be very good, he pent off to the
printers with the ink still wet upon the
paper.

'sir Hilary can't beat that," he chuckled ;
*' he only promises to uphold Church and
State and the old institutions of the country.
Vague, sir, very vague, no progress there,
nothing to satisfy. Your Radical is the true
friend of the people, and I'm happy to say
they are getting to know it at last. Now,
then, gentleman, suppose we go and call on
a few of your leading supporters."

Hartley, the draper, was the first to fall
under this category ; he was a lean, sallow,
and discontented looking person, and, when
asked for his vote, replied —

'' I won't promise, I'm sure, sir ; there's
folk from London come, and they say this,
and they say that, just to get themselves
into Parliament. I've no call to complain of
a Liberal government. Certainly Mr. Gladstone
is fair enough, and I daresay he does
his best, but we've all got to live, and I don't
see as food is cheaper, or trade better. And,
what with the Factory Acts and the early-closing
movement, we don't do near as
good a business as we did."

Dick, well primed by Gubbins, glibly explained
that legislation had done much for
the country, and that, if trade was not as
prosperous as it might be, indeed, positively
slack, so deplorable a state of things must be
traced to the Tories, and their unreasonable
foreign wars.

"• Look here, now," said Mr. Gubbins,
"' how about sugar— isn't sugar cheap? Mrs.
Hartley likes her tea sweet, and I'm sure
the children love jam."

'^ I don't deny as you speak fair," said the
draper, ^' but the Government is always for
helping those who can't help themselves or
keep their earnings when they've got them ;
the respectable tradespeople that pay their
way honestly get no privileges. Well, I
can't promise — I'll see."

Mr. Sands the grocer came next. He
was strong on the Church question, and did
not much care which government was in
power so long as it did not uphold the State
Church. "It's a iniquity, that's what it is,
sir, that State Church. I can't abide the
parsons, with their copses and alas, and
stuff and nonsense ; red-hot popery, sir,
that's what it is ; and such a lot of news

angled services, as if you come a bit late
a man can't tell if it's the litany or the
burial-service they're saying. We pay them
parsons to preach the gospel, don't we ?
Well, when my missus was ill for full six
weeks, not one of *em so much as came to
read to her, though they called pretty smart
for a subscription to the improvements of
the church. Straw chairs, is it, sir? and
paint and pictures, that's what they call
improvements; I don't, sir, I calls 'em idolatrous.
Well, they do say as the Prime
Minister has leanings to Rome, but I can't
believe it, for didn't he disestablish the Irish
Church? and a very good job too. I read
the Bible daily, and I know what's what in
religion, and my missis she thinks the same
us I do."

Dick listened meekly to this diatribe, and
when they passed out Gubbins whispered
to the grocer, ^' He is a true Christian that
young man, studies his Bible regularly, you
needn't be afraid to vote for him."

As they proceeded on their house-toulouse
visitation Dick soon discovered that the
science of politics was a sealed book to most
voters ; each one had his own grievance or

personal fad, and each one looked no further
than the bounded horizon, of his own prejudices,
making himself and his private interest
the pivot round which revolved the questions
of progress, religion, social reform, or education.
Dick, who was honest, though indolent,
found it hard to make the contradictory
promises which his position demanded of
Iii ; he minded less the shaking of hands
and kissing of babies than the false words
and fair speeches which it was his duty impartially
to distribute. But Gubbins made
uj) for all shortcomings; he exhorted, praised,
joked, and flattered each independent elector
until lie more or less obtained a promise of
support. On the homeward road they fell
in with an old labourer in a smock-frock,
carrying a basket of tools on his shoulder.
His white locks streamed in the wind and
this honest weather beaten countenance was
seamed and traversed by deep lines of care
and toil.

''Ah, Peter, how are you?" said Mr. High-view
cordially, reining up his horse to speak
to him; then in an undertone to Dick, "He's
a stonemason, an honest fellow enough,
though eccentric, and has the unbounded

confidence of all his mates. Now, Peter,
here's the young gentleman who wishes to
have the honour of representing you in Parliament
; what chance has he, do you
think ? " Peter touched his cap, lifted his
eyes cautiously and quietly, and scratching
his head replied, after prolonged deliberation,
'' He be a fine young gentleman for martin
to look at ; but have he stuff in him ? that's
what he must show us. He be a gentleman,
and I repose he's a gentleman's ideas. He's
a Liberal, be he? Well, now, I never can tell
rightly how they can put they four things
together, a gentleman, a landlord, a magistrate,
and a radical. It's a queer medley ;
there ain't no Liberals now, we must be
radicals or nought — a friend of the people
and one of the people. No, no, it's nought
to me what kind of a government's in power;
it strikes me there'll always be poor men,
and the rich will be always a talking of
helping 'em, but as our Lord said, and hewer
a man of the people and no mistake :
the poor ye have always with you.' If
the working man is to be helped let him
help himself, there's none else can do it ;
but, as far as I see, there must always be toil

and trouble and sorrow, and then death —
that's the best of all ; folks can rest and
none to rail at 'em. Oh, I dare say the
young gentleman 'full do well enough, and I
wish your friend luck, for you're a kind and
just landlord, Mr. Highview, and so long as
there must be landlords I've no fault to find
wi' ye ; ye means well, I know; but I says
to my mates, ' lor bless yer, don't yer trust
to the government, but trust to yourselves.'
Good day, sir, I've a long trudge afore me
still, and I wish you well, young gentleman ^
that I do." The old man nodded, took up
his basket of tools, and trudged on.

'there, there's a specimen of the work-<
ing man," said Mr. Highview, 'she isn't
grateful, and he isn't happy, and he works
hard, and he enjoys his grumble, but he is
patient : oh, the patience of the poor ! it is
wonderful, it passes all belief. He was a
violent Trades-unionist and speaker once, but
he has calmed down now, and has seen the
error of his ways."

^' I wonder if that is what we shall all
come to," mused Dick, '^ to spend the best
years of our life pursuing a phantom, and
then at the last say ^ there is nothing good

VOL. I. I

but death. I might as well never have
lived."

^' Peter has lived for something. The
condition of the labourers is much improved
during the last few years— they are better
housed, better clothed, better fed ; and he
has a son to whom he has given a good
education, and who bids fair to be a master
mason one day. Peter has only sobered
down ; he is getting old, you see, as we all
must, and the enthusiasm of youth is giving
place to quiet common sense."

'' So much for education. Are we not
better without it ? It is Pegasus harnessed
to a plough, and the divine animal has the
worst of it, I think," said Dick, bitterly.

'^ Not a bit of it ; when your joints grow
stiff, it is a pleasure to go steadily, and
youth, with all its daring, occasionally gets
some remarkably unpleasant knocks and
tumbles."

-«4

I

CHAPTER VIII.

^' Piece, Evelyn, is that the kind of thing
you like?" said Sir Hilary, one morning,
throwing a pale blue velvet jewel-case into
Lady Fenchurch's lap.

"' Hilary ! Oh, how beautiful ! " Evelyn
glanced with admiration at the rows of snowy
pearls reposing on their velvet cushion.

'^ You said the other night that you liked
pearls better than any other precious stones,
so I sent for these." Sir Hilary put his
hands in his pockets, and aired his back
before the fire.

'^ They are lovely; but I meant nothing.
I never thought of your giving me any ;
they must have cost a great deal."

Lady Fenchurch's manner was more
grieved than glad.

'well, never mind; the money is mine to

I 2

do as I like with, and the pearls are yours
to wear. Give me a kiss, and mind you put
them on to-nights''

Evelyn raised her face obediently, and
Sir Hilary, having deposited a kiss on her
cheek, departed His wife looked again
sadly at the pearls. She had never cared
for jewels or finery, and just now she
cared still less. Her mind was running on
other topics, and straying into forbidden
grooves. It cost her a bitter pang to hear
Dick's name in everyone's mouth, to be told
of the favourable impression he had created,
to read his address, and to find him the
universal subject of conversation Miss
Fen church, wishing and showing, had received
a local paper containing a report of
his first speech, and Evelyn with a blush
at her own infatuation, had secured the paper
and hidden it carefully at the bottom of one
of her drawers. She had not yet met him ;
indeed, she hoped to be spared this ordeal ;
but she could not help listening eagerly for
his praises. Sorely did she chide herself for
disloyalty to Sir Hilary, while she regarded
his presents as the price she received for the
surrender of her love. Sir Hilary treated
her like a child, petted and spoiled her, and

gave her jewellery, fancying she needed
nothing else ; but she, who had tasted one
brief moment of dangerous rapture, knew
that gifts were but a poor substitute for love.
Had she only known sooner, or had she
but possessed the courage to tell Sir Hilary
the truth, and break off her engagement, all
would have been well, but a foolish fear and
a mistaken sense of duty had withheld her,
and there was nothing for it now but to
trample down the restless longing in her
heart and to become in thought, as she was
in deed, a blameless wife. With a sigh
Evelyn locked up her jewel-case, and ill at
ease set forti on her daily walk. She
directed her steps in the opposite direction
to West Thorpe, and, having climbed a steep
and stony lane, halted to take breath. The
still November hush was over everything ;
not a sound broke the silence ; it was too
late for the song of the thrush, and too early
for the bleat of the lambs. The sun struggled
vainly through the heavy grey clouds that
almost touched the long row of green fields
with their black and leafless bordering of
trees, stretching away into the dim distance :
the tints were crude and colourless, the sky

low and gloomy. Evelyn leant her head on
her hands, and rested by the stile thinking.
She was too depressed to care much for the
present, or to anticipate the future. A
shadowy presentiment encompassed her. Presently
the sound of a horse's trot roused her
from her reverie, and, fearful lest Sir Hilary
should find her sentimentalizing, to which
mental pursuit he bore an undying grudge,
she turned quickly from the stile towards the
road. As she did so she perceived that,
contrary to her supposition, Dick was the
rider. He pulled up his horse abruptly, and
stopped. Evelyn's colour had fled, her lips
were white and trembling, her fine brown
eyes uplifted pitifully. Dick could not pass
on without speaking to her.

^^ Lady Fenchurch," he said — he had
schooled himself to speak the name — slave
you forgiven me'' This was not at all
what he meant to say, but it served the
purpose as well as any other speech and
broke the ice.

^^ I have wished so much to meet you."
Here he jumped off his horse, and approached.
^^ I want to speak to you ; may I
walk with you a little way ? ''

Evelyn bowed her head ; she dared not
trust herself to speak.

'^ When we met last," he pursued, ^^ you
know what my feelings were "

^^ Don't speak so' she interrupted, ^'that
is all over talk of yourself and your prospects."


^^I know that is all over," he said, bitterly;
'' you spoilt my life for me, and you do not
like to think of it ; but, if even you forbid
me to speak of them, my feelings are unchanged.
I have done my very best to
forget you, believe me ; I have plunged into
this political career, which strikes me as
barren to the core, and I work hard, which
I hate, and try not to remember. I can't do
more. Is my presence here so distasteful to
you, can you not even forgive me for opposing
your husband ? I did not know when I
accepted the candidature that there was any
chance of his coming forward — for, of course,
in that case I should never have allowed
myself to be nominated."

^^ I do not mind," she said, quietly, '' I
shall never see you ; our paths in life are
quite separate ; I have no possible right to
dictate to you what you shall or shall not do.

But I am glad also that we met to-day — because
the last time — you misunderstood me ; '*
her eyes filled with tears. Dick longed to kiss
away those tears, but he walked doggedly
along, his horse's bridle drawn through his
arm, scarcely daring to look at her. To all
appearance they were merely taking a casual
stroll, but Evelyn's heart felt nigh to breaking,
and Dick was mad with rage and love.

^'We understand one another now," he
said ^^I'Gsently. '' Oh yes, you will think of
me sometimes — as a friend — I will carry
the remembrance of you to my dying day,
best and dearest of friends — but — you look
so pale— you are not unhappy ? "

^' No, no. I am very well. I heard that
your first speech was much approved of — I
was glad, you know — I should like you to
persevere — some day perhaps you will be
famous."

^' Do you wish me to succeed, then ? ''

^* You forget Sir Hilary."

'^I cannot even ask for your good wishes''
he said, bitterly; '^ it is hard— and our
political views don't coincide, or perhaps you
have none — do politics bore you ? "

No indeed." It could not be doubted

that no topic chosen by Dick would bore her,
so long as he refrained from speaking oi
love. ^' Is it pleasant at High view ? "

^^ Pretty well, very magnificent! — they
are most kind and hospitable — and Mr. High-view
is a downright good fellow."

'' And she ? ''

^^ Oh, she is good-natured enough, though
she does treat that wretched little niece of
hers with unnecessary severity ; fortunately
Maud takes her part and stands up for her."

'^ Maud Hardfast ! your cousin Maud ; is
she staying there, too ? " Evelyn's voice
expressed dismay.

Oh yes, she is there, and her mother
also, they are going to stay some time."

^' Then I need not ask if High view Castle
is a pleasant place to stay in. Why do you
deceive me, Dick ? " In her emotion she
spoke his name inadvertently, and emboldened
by this he seized her hand.

'deceive you, Evelyn! I could never do so."

Oh yes, you can — you pretend to care
for me, and all the while you are flirting and
making love to your cousin Maud — of course
you are right, she is very beautiful - but it
is cruel of you to deceive me, and make me

wretched." Evelyn drew her hand away
angrily.

'why, T am not engaged to her, I don't
really care a fig for my cousin," this in a
tone of surprise.

'but you will marry and learn to care
for her."

'' We have known one another from childhood,
we are only friends — surely you
understand this''

'^ Just now Z was to be your friend."

'' So you are, Evelyn dearest ; how you
torture me ! "

'' I am wrong, Dick, don't speak to meany
more ; I can't help it, I have no right to
find fault —who am I ? — oh, leave me, pray,
and never, never come near me again."

'^ I cannot leave yoa like this, Evelyn ;
how excited, how unjust you are ! I don't
want to marry ; I am your devoted slave ; it
is you who drive me away — believe me, I
ask no more than to be always with you."

'rand that can never be. Goodbye, Dick
—Mr. Carrol."

Remember," he said earnestly, " I love
you ; I shall love you always ; when you
need me send for me. I am always yours."

He remounted quickly, and rode off,
leaving Evelyn in a dream. She had rejoiced
to see him again. The sight of his
handsome face had sent her pulses bounding
madly vrith joy, till almost immediately her
happiness was dashed by a fierce feeling of
jealousy. Five minutes of conversation had
thus utterly disarranged her life. She was
impressed with a sense of her weakness, her
wickedness, her ingratitude to Sir Hilary.
Oily flight could save her ; it was ignominious
but sure. She must avoid Dick at
all hazards ; they must not meet again.
Was she not trembling like an aspen-leaf,
while her hand was cold, and her cheeks
burning with a painful flush.

When she reached home, though feeling
faint with bodily fatigue, she proceeded at
once to the library, where tea was usually
served. Sir Hilary was there in a sullen
mood.

^'You are late," he said shortly, sand
must be tired."

'^ Yes, I am tired." She threw off her hat
and gloves and sat down. '' I had a long
walk ; shall I go and change my things, or
make you some tea first ? "

^' My sister made the tea long ago, as you
were out' he answered, in an aggrieved
tone.

'• Oh ! I am very sorry. It shall not
happen again, Hilary."

"Where did you walk'' he asked, trying
to seem more gracious.

^ ' Towards Fairholt ; the road is less
muddy."

'^ Ah ! then you must have met Dick
Carrol ; pray did you speak to him ? I
heard he was to be at Fairholt Rectory today."


Yes, I met him ; " Evelyn tried hard to
keep her voice steady. '^ We talked for a
few minutes."

'^ You never told me you knew him ; it
was quite accidentally that I heard he was
staying at the Miller's when you were there
last spring."

Evelyn, sitting in the hot lamp-lit library,
turned suddenly cold. What had Sir Hilary
heard ? What could he mean ?

'^ I did not think you would care about
it," she said.

"My opponent is naturally of interest tome,"
he said drily, " but you seem to forget

this — wives do not always have their
husbands' interests at heart."

^^Oh! but I have, Hilary, you know I
have. I hope you will win the election — I
should like to help you'' she said, warmly.

Sir Hilary gave a sneering laugh.

^' What is it, Hilary ? what do you mean ?
have I offended you ? Oh ! do speak
to me."

'^ Don't disturb yourself, my dear; I
mean nothing ; pray do not make a scene.
You have walked too far, and are overtired ;
go to your room and lie down a little."

Evelyn rose. Her faintness and dizziness
had increased. Sir Hilary's advice was excellent
; she would go and lie down. He
opened the door for her with his old-fashioned
gallantry of manner, and kissed
her forehead as she passed out.

^^ Lie down, dear, and you will be all right
by dinner-time."

Certainly, it might be all right physically
with her, yet she could not divest herself of
a vague fear, and an apprehension that some
deeper meaning lay in Sir Hilary's words.
Hitherto Evelyn had only thought of herself
and of what might have been ; now a far

more dreadful phantom reared itself before
her affrighted gaze, the phantom of domestic
troubles and misunderstandings. Would the
great fight soon include, not onl37^ her own
passions and desires, but the subtle encroachments
of a husband's jealousy ? He
jealous of her, she jealous of Dick; what
a tangle ! Bitterly did she rue the folly
and vacillation which had prevented her
from proclaiming her love for Dick, and
throwing off the bonds of her engagement,
when to have done so would have cost
neither truth nor irrevocable pain. There
are few people who do not, like Evelyn, hang
the veil of expediency before the inner portal
of the temple of truth, dreading to look upon
the features of the stern goddess without
some shadow of protection. Evelyn had
said to herself: ^' I cannot — I dare not,"
and the fiction had become fact. Sir
Hilary was a reasonable man, and had she
treated him reasonably she need never have
regretted it. But it was too late now, and
her slight deviation from the path of honesty
was likely to lead her into a perfect maze of
misery.

CHAPTER IX.

The meeting with his lady-love sorely
damped Dick's spirits, which were beginning
to rise again with universal encouragement,
and the prospects of success. She was his
lady-love still, at least, in his dreams, he had
not yet accustomed himself to think of her
as the wife of another man. She was the
same Evelyn, as sweet, as gentle, as pretty,
yet not the same ; she was a woman now,
oppressed by a woman's responsibilities, hampered
by a woman's duties, and no longer the
bright, careless girl he had known in that
brief time of mutual passion. She was far
removed from him, indeed, it was a sin even
to think of her. And yet he recalled with
delight the sparkle of her eye, the flush of
her cheek at his unexpected appearance, and
the glory of ambition faded into insignificance

when lie compared it with the madness
of love.

The company were just filing into dinner
like an army of well-dressed mutes as
Dick descended the staircase. He offered his
arm to the nearest lady, who proved to be
his cousin Maud. She was looking her best
in a dress of pale blue, but he scarcely cared
for her beauty to-night. She rallied him
playfully on his moodiness, saying, '' I
declare you must have seen a ghost to-day,
you look quite scared."

He had indeed seen a spectre, the ghost
of a dead love, but he did not confess to her
the correctness of her supposition. In the
same bantering tone he answered, that it was
the loss of her presence that had made him
so dull, and praised her dress. Luce's observant
eyes watched them across the table; she
knew Maud's enterprise, and she thought she
read success in her smiles and blushes.
Dick did not see that he was observed; a
plain little girl could scarcely arouse his
vanity, and he allowed her plenty of leisure
to pursue her observations. The dinner was
a triumph of French cookery, for Lady
Eleanor kept a culinary artist on the premises

and gave as much attention to her '^ sahiiis''
as to her guests' conversation. Dick, hungry
from his ride, did justice to the delicacies
set before him, and quaffed largely of his
champagne glass. Elated by the froth and
sparkle of talk and wine, he presently adventured
himself into a flirtation with Maud.
This was not difficult with such considerate
encouragement as she gave him, and, if
hearts are not caught in the rebound, at least
vanity is. Later in the evening, Maud fluttered
down on to a deep, soft couch, bedded
with embroidered cushions and hidden behind
a large porphyry vase. Luce found her
out there and took the place beside her*
which Maud had mentally reserved for Dick.
'' How cold it is to night! " said the plain
girl shivering, ^' I am sure there must be a
frost."

"• Very likely; I don't feel the cold," said
Maud, luxuriously spreading out her fair
white hands and contemplating them . ' ^ What
a chilly little creature you are! go and warm
yourself by the fire," she added, her sympathy
being largely mixed with a desire to
get rid of her tactless friend before the
arrival of the gentlemen.

VOL. I K

No, I will stay here a little. What were
you and Mr. Carrol talking about at dinner
? He looked so interested."

*^ He is always interested — with me, we
understand one another," said the beauty,
languidly, not unwilling to be credited with
power. *' Men generally like the society of
women who can enter into their thoughts."

"How can you enter into their thoughts?"
said plain matter-of-factness. '' What does a
girl know of a man's real feelings ? "

Dear me. Luce, how stupid you are !
One must study them of course."

'^ Exactly." Luce relapsed into silence.
Luce had been studying too, with what
success she knew not.

'' Come over here, Luce," cried Lady
Eleanor, sharply, at that instant. ^'Why
do you hide yourself away in a corner?"
Luce rose obediently, and Maud thus attained
her object. Bruce, in answer to a summons
from Dick Carrol, had arrived at the Castle,
and the two friends strolled in together
from the dining-room ; but an electric flash
from Maud's eyes promptly brought Dick
to his senses, and a rapid twist of his heel
landed him by the couch to which the

vacant seat invited him. Bruce, who knew
no one, glanced indifferently about ; he was
like a mole, half-blinded by the light of
many wax candles and the blaze of jewellery;
he missed his round table, the little reading-lamp,
and the familiar folios. Lady Eleanor's
loud, sonorous, and yet ladylike tones rang
like a Greek chorus in his ear. As he stood
motionless, not timid, yet strange, with
luminous eyes and bent, reed-like figure,
Luce, her lashes wet with tears, turned from
the two eager whispering figures on the
couch, and beheld Bruce standing thus
lonely and unobserved. A feeling of sympathy
prompted her to approach him, and'
say in a voice as soft as the summer wind:

•' You are Mr. Carrol's friend, are you
not ? He was telling us to-day how much
he looked forward to your arrival."

Bruce, responsive to her directions, sat
down in a high-backed satin chair, and
looked keenly at her before answering. The
beauty of her eyes astonished him ; he was
not accustomed to such eyes, for a tender,
sensitive soul spoke from them. He was
unusually indifferent to mere beauty of form
and colouring, but intelligence and reasoned



idleness in a woman seemed to him worthy
of attention.

^' Yes, I trust I am Dick's greatest friend.
He is a dear fellow, a fine character, though
undeveloped. The education of the day is
answerable for that; it fritters away a man's
energies and leaves him no time for concentration."


^' You approve his political opinions?" she
questioned.

'' Certainly, they are my own. Progress
must be every man's ideal. I wish to seethe
moral condition, the social status, of the
people raised. That, it seems to me, is the
religion of politics, the spiritual side which
everything worth labouring for must possess.
Politics are not essentially earthly ; it is a
mistake to treat them so, when they refer toman's
highest good, to the victory of morality
over self-interest. Each man has a
political duty towards himself and others
from the mere fact that he is a citizen of the
state ; to be indifferent to this duty is a
blunder and a sin."

'' I never thought of politics in that sense.
You are a great student, Mr. Bruce, I
believe ? ''

'^ I could not live away from my books,
those silent, faithful, satisfying, friends."

'^ And you prefer them to men and women?
Perhaps you are right," she added, softly.

'' Excuse me, I did not say that. I am
truly attached to Dick, with a quiet disinterested
feeling that is perhaps somewhat old-fashioned,
and I can see that the girl he is
speaking to is extremely handsome. I think
I understood her name to be Miss Hardfast."

'^ Yes, she is thought very beautiful," Luce
sighed. It was not a sigh of envy, but yet
it contained regret.

^* She is handsome, but it is not a beauty
that appeals to me, it is too sensual. The*
young lady is not troubled with soul. If
Dick marries her it will be his ruin."

^' Do you, who are his friend, think he will
marry her ? '' questioned Luce with unnecessary
eagerness.

'^ I cannot tell. He is not in love with her
now; if he were, his actions would be incomprehensible,
and mysterious of courses

^^Why?"

'^ Because love is a madness, and there is
no reason in insanity."

'^ That is a hard word. Mr. Carrol is

like what I imagine Alexander must, have
been. He is so strong, and healthy, and
handsome."

Bruce looked at her with more attention ;
the girl's tones, soft as they were, had a
warmth that puzzled him.

*^ Yes, perhaps ; I never thought of osgood
looks, but of course women notice these
things. And so you have read too Miss
Windermere, I perceive you are a student, as
you took a classical personage for your
simile; pray be faithful to your studies; there
is nothing to be compared with them ; they
are the staff of life."

^' I am fond of reading, but I don't think
deep study is good for worn en. '^

'' Why so ? ''

Because it makes them sometimes discontented
with the common-place."

swell?"

^^ And — and because men do not like it.'^

'' Some men do''

'^ No, no indeed it does not answer, it is
better not."

At this moment there occurred a general
move among the company ; a lady rose and
went to the piano to sing; some of the gentlemen

disappeared into the smoking-room —
music has that effect occasionally of inciting
a desire for soporifics — and the two speakers
were parted by the wave of motion, but
Maud and Dick sat on behind their porphyry
vase happy and quiescent.

'' And so you speak in the town-hall tomorrow,"
she was saying with a solicitous
deflection of her voice ; '' I must go even if I
have to walk alone there ; I do so want to
hear you speak."

'^ I had rather not, you will make me
nervous."

You nervous, impossible ! " Maud threw
a cursory glance at his robust figure, his'
finely modelled hands, his clear eyes, and
ruddy complexion, which were the incarnate
expression of perfect health and strength.

^' I assure you, I am really very nervous."

'leave that to the women, who are not
sure of their own good looks and their
powers of pleasing, like poor Luce, for instance
; how shy she is ! What does your
agent say ? " she added with interest.

'' He is very sanguine, but then he is
always sanguine. He is the kind of man who
in a railway accident, with the dead and

dying around him, would exclaim, ^ Thank
goodness, there are a good many saved ;
it is not so bad as it might have been.' "

"What a charming temperament! I should
like to know him''

"Naturally therefore I cannot quite trust
to his assurances, but still I hope to be successful,
for I hate to be foiled at anything."

"And why should you?" Maud contrived
to throw a suggestive inflection into her
voice conveying the certainty that, given
Dick's powers, success was inevitable.

But now we really must go'' she said,
seeing the room nearly empty, and Luce
hovering near, "I want you to play a game
of billiards with me."

Lady Eleanor, however, who had her own
ends in view, waylaid her at this instant,
and carried her off to consult about some
knotty point of dress or arrangement, and
Luce and Dick were left standing alone.

I have been talking to your friend, Mr.
Bruce," she said, rather timidly ; "how pleasant
he is, and how devoted he seems to you."

It was almost the first time she had addressed
Dick since he entered the house, and
her soft harmonious voice pleased his fastidious

ears. Maud's voice was clear and
strong and agreeable enough in a fresh commonplace
way, but it had none of the delicate
modulations and thrilling reedy sweetness
of this one.

'^ I can't half appreciate Bruce," lie answered,
heartily, '' he is so good, and so unselfish,
and so clever; he works patiently and
uncom^^lainingly, and really works for bread.
It is not play, like everything I have done
hitherto."

^^ But you are doing real work now ? ''

'' Yes, I suppose so."

'' It must be pleasant to be a man," said
Luce, reflectively, " to have a definite object
to labour for, and to be able to follow one's
own impulses,"

^^ I am afraid one follows them rather too
often ; men have more temptations than
women, you know."

^'But then they are not nearly so much
hampered. This election, now, I suppose it
is your own choice ? "

^^ Yes, and I assure you I care very little
about it."

^^ Indeed! I think the sense of power
must be fine, it must be nice to feel that you

can sway a multitude, that people listen for
your opinion — don't you like that ? "

'^ Well, you know my opinion isn't worth
much, I know very little of these matters."

'' But then you are learning."

Luce's quiet timid manner rather amused
him, he thought he would try and draw her
out ; she paid him no compliments, and yet
seemed to think far more seriously of his
future than Maud, notwithstanding her
sugar-plum flatteries. The atmosphere of
the one girl braced, while the other enervated
him.

'' Are you going to the Town Hall ?" he
asked ^' I hope so."

I think we are all going ; Maud Hardfast
has set her heart on it, and my aunt is so
very fond of her, she is sure to humour her
wishes."

^' And are you not fond of her ? "

'' I like her very well, I don't think I am
fond of anyone. Does not that imply a kind
of renunciation of self, which I have certainly
not yet reached "

'^ And cannot understand ? ''

'^ Oh, yes, I can understand it. I can
understand a man giving up everything fora

woman, and caring only to please her, and
even doing foolish things, and — " here Luce
caught Dick's astonished gaze, and hesitated,
^'but of course I do not know anything
about such things, and am never likely to."

'' Why not ? " he questioned kindly.

^' Because I am plain, and men only care
for beauty, and no one is likely to take a
fancy to me''

semen like nice women. I am sure you
are nice."

Luce coloured painfully. He was laughing
at her, she thought, and she felt the sting
more acutely, because for once she had forgotten
herself, and spoken out frankly without
regard to conventionality.

'^ Why do you stop and look at me so ? "
he asked.

^^ I think it very bad taste on your part to
laugh at a girl because she says openly what
you are thinking in your heart," said Luce.

'' By Jove ! I — I beg your pardon ; that
isn't true. I wasn't laughing, I was thinking
I had never met a really modest girl
before. I am not a good hand at making
protestations, but upon my word, believe me,
I wouldn't hurt your feelings for the world."

^' Plain people ought to have no feelings."

'^ Look here, Miss Luce, to show you I
mean what I say, and to prove to me you
don't bear malice, will you talk to me again
tomorrow evening, and tell me some of
your ideas ? They are so fresh and new tome,
you know, I did not think it possible
for a woman to be entirely without vanity''

They had wandered thus talking into the
billiard-room, and a reproachful look from
Maud, who was playing billiards, arrested
him.

'^ Come here," she cried, ^^ please chalk
my cue, and do tell me what stroke I had
better make next. You said I was to be
your pupil, and you have never been near
me at all."

Dick expressed his regret, chalked the
cue, and, shutting one eye, deliberated upon
the chances of Maud's ball hitting the
cushion and canning off, or rolling
straight into the pocket. The game was
exciting, and Maud, who knew how to pose
herself so as best to display, when bending
over the table, the full curves of her graceful
bust, and the rounded plumpness of her
beautiful arm, took every precaution that

Dick should not again stray from her side.
She had been practising all the afternoon by
herself, and now protested, with pretty little
cries of alarm, that she could never, never,
never hit that ball unless Dick would just
show her how to hold the cue, and stand
beside her to give her courage. When the
stroke was completed, she would turn to
Dick confidentially and express boundless
gratitude for his advice. Dick, who was a
fine player, grew proud of his pupil, and
bestowed no further thought on quiet Luce,
who sat by knitting a stocking, and listening
half unconsciously to the spicy gossip with
which Mrs. Hardfast and Lady Eleanor regaled
her ears.

CHAPTER X.

It was decided to have an early dinner in
preparation for the meeting in the Town Hall.
Mr. Highview, Dick, and Julian Bruce
were to start first, and the ladies to follow.
The household was thrown into a state of
confusion, for some of the servants had been
given permission to attend the meeting, and
the ladies' maids were running to and fro,
answering the loudly pealing bells, and
hurrying their mistresses' toilettes, in preparation
for the unusually early meal.
Luce was dressed in good time, and descended
to the drawing-room, where she
amused herself with a book of poetry, pending
the arrival of the rest of the party.

She was calm and unhurried ; it was not
her habit to hurry ; she had observed its disadvantages
in the case of her aunt, who was

always writing letters, or giving orders, or
holding audiences up to the very last moment,
and then required to be inducted expeditiously
into her gown by a trembling
maid with awkward fingers, who generally
broke the lace or fastened the hooks awry, to
a running accompaniment of angry rebukes
from Lady Eleanor. Mr. Highview kept to
his dressing-room at these times, and slunk
quietly down stairs when he was ready, lest
he should be called on presently to adjudicate
between mistress and maid, for after a certain
period of terror and semi imbecility the
maid generally turned and treated her mistress
to saucy answers, with the natural
result of speedy dismissal. As these occurrences
were frequent and the scarcity of
good maids great, Lady Eleanor usually
passed a great many weeks in a condition
of abject dependence upon an obliging housemaid's
services. Maud and Mrs. Hardfast
possessed one maid between them, or rather
it might be said that Maud had a maid, for
the latter spent two hours with the daughter
before she was permitted to bestow five
minutes on the mother ; and Mrs. Hardfast
would wander helplessly in and out of her

daughter's room a dozen times in dressing-gown
and slippers to find Maud invariably
just trying on a wreath, taking down her
hair that it might be done over again and
please her better, or ordering another dress
to be brought from the cupboard instead of
the one previously decided upon. As these
were the conditions of the ladies' toilets, it
is needless to add that an early dinner disarranged
everything, and that the poor
maids had an extra hard time of it on this
occasion. At last, however, the party started,
six on each side, in an omnibus. Maud sat
next the window, saying she required air;
opposite her was young Arthur Sterneyy one
of the company, and beside her Luce, whose
fingers she could pinch occasionally when
desirable, and whose elbow she could nudge
if anything specially amusing or piquant
attracted her notice. Luce was very quiet ;
she was thinking of Dick, and wondering
how he would comport himself on the platform
; whether his handsome face would
grow red, or his eyes wander, and if he
would stammer or stutter. She hooded not
with all her heart, and felt quite sick as she
reflected on the possibility of his breaking

down. Maud, on the contrary, full of spirits,
laughed and talked and kept her hand in
by an innocent flirtation with Arthur Sterne,
who had torn himself away from London
and the theatres, hearing that she was
to make one of the party at the Castle.
The other occupants of the omnibus were
Mr. Glossary, the eminent critic, who cracked
jokes and told spicy and improper stories
to Lady Eleanor, under cover of her fan, as
they rattled over the stony roads, and Lord
Newlands and his wife. He had rendered
valuable assistance to the Liberal Government
at one period, and had been rewarded by a
peerage in consequence. Lady Newlands,
a Manchester heiress, dressed magnificently
in the richest of brocades and satins, but
remained a little uncertain as to her h's, and
always spoke of her husband as ^^my lord."
The omnibus arrived in good time at the
door of the Town Hall, around which clustered
a crowd of dirty boys and men, with
a few women holding babies, kept in order
by an army of policemen. Maud stepped
out gracefully, aided by Arthur Sterneyy, and
followed by Luce, who tripped along by
herself; next descended Lord Newlands, who

VOL. I. L

inadvertently trod on Lady Eleanor's toe
and caused her to exclaim, under her breath,
'' Unmannerly wretch! " A great hunt then
ensued among the cloaks and cushions for
Lady Eleanor's smelling-bottle, which was
at last found under the seat, having been
used by Lady Newlands as a footstool during
the drive ; finally the stately procession
marched up the hall and took their places
on the long front row of chairs, provided for
them. A great buzz of voices filled the air,
people streamed in at the doors, and a few
lads at the back tried to get up a disturbance.
They were promptly hustled and
knocked about into silence, and the proceedings
commenced. Mr. Highview, the chairman,
in a neat little speech recapitulated the
object of the meeting, and begged leave to
produce the new candidate for the honour
of representing the county in Parliament.
Dick stepped forward a little sheepishly and
began, '^ Ladies and gentlemen." A storm
of applause and hisses interrupted him ; the
hisses, having been hired, and being in the
minority, were after a little while subdued,
and Dick recommenced. He did not speak
badly. He hesitated occasionally and repeated

himself, and his political statements,
though strong and damaging to the other
side, were scarcely as clear or as logical as
might have been wished, but his words were
simple and almost colloquial, and thus appealed
to the majority, and his sentiments
were unexceptionable and manly. He created
a favourable impression, and at the end of
his speech the applause decidedly drowned
the hisses. Dick sat down, a trifle out of
breath and rather red in the face, but happy
and satisfied. Mr. High view slapped him
on the shoulder, remarking, '^ You'll do very
well, my dear fellow ; you've said quite the
right thing and pleased everybody." And
Maud, who had nearly split her new tan suede
gloves in applauding vigorously, now waved
a red fan to and fro, familiarly, to imply
that the speech had received her fullest
approval.

Dick, during the whole of his speech, had
been conscious of nothing, he could not have
told who was in the hall, nor whether the
three first benches were occupied by his
personal friends ; only once he had felt a
kind of attraction, and caught a pair of eyes
fixed upon him that seemed to pierce into

L 2

his brain and read his very thoughts. The
eyes belonged to Luce, who, breathless, with
parted lips, had followed every argument,
thrilled to every inflection of his voice,
reassured him by her sympathy and ready
comprehension, and encouraged him by her
approbation when he felt doubtful of the
soundness of his arguments. And all this
without speaking a word or moving a muscle,
simply by the power of her eyes and of her
self-abandonment to his influence. It was
very strange. The quiet little girl seemed
to comprehend him, to be warmed with the
cool fire of his own rather lukewarm enthusiasm,
so that involuntarily he made his
points for her, sought her steady gaze, and
knew that she was pleased. He was not
accustomed to such sympathy, and felt
grateful, that through the awkwardness of
speech his true meaning had been interpreted,
like a dumb animal whose demands for sugar
or caresses are understood.

It was Bruce's turn next. He rose with a
jerk, a lanky figure in a loose tweed suit,
stopped for an instant, and looked round the
hall with a wistful reflective gaze, then
stroking his hair back from his high forehead,

he spoke in quiet monotonous tones.
Sundry exclamations burst from the audience,
and a voice from the crowd cried,
'^ Ain't he thin ? I wonder if he's a vegetarian
! " another, '^ My eyes, don't he want
drilling!" another, 'bill, is not he like a
nice young hop pole ? "

Utterly unmoved, the tall reedy figure
with the ascetic face and the long thin
hands, proceeded steadily with his harangue
until the very noisiest consented to listen.
The quiet force of his character had conquered
them. He expounded at considerable
length his ideas of true politics, from an
utterly unconventional standpoint. He gave
them none of the usual common abuse of
their adversaries, no clap-trap allusions, but
he spoke like a philosopher; and as he
warmed with his subject, his white face
glowed, and his eyes dilated, until the concluding
words fairly moved his audience to
enthusiasm. ^' Friends, it is not for any party
that I plead, but for the people. The voice
of the people is the voice of God ; the people
are the first and last word of the British
constitution ; reform touches the people,
the rights of property affect the people.

religion is the religion of the people, and
politics means the welfare of the people."
Shouts broke from the furthest corners of the
packed multitude, applause shook the rafters
and echoed over people's heads ; the uproar
was deafening. '^ He's the fellow for us."
^'My eyes, he is an out-and out demagogue."
'that chap has got the gift of the gab."
'^ Are you a Paddy with your ene blarney ?"
were some of the cries bandied about, but
the general impression made was to the effect
that he was a true and earnest man. Bruce
retired to the back of the platform, paying
no attention to the noise of the multitude;
then turned deadly white, and begged a
glass of water. The real orator, primed
with the living fire of the gods, is moved
himself with the force of his own convictions,
and his influence over others is but
the feeble reflex of the quivering of his
own soul. The rest of the speeches fell flat.
Lord Newlands drivelled on, on every kind
of irrelevant subject, till the impatience of
the audience could no longer be subdued.
Then Mr. Highview neatly joined together
the various threads dropped by the speakers,
and bound them into one consecutive and

plausible whole, and, after a vote of thanks
to the chairman, the meeting terminated.

The order of the return journey was
somewhat modified. Maud went in the
landau with Lady Eleanor, and Luce sat
next to Dick in the omnibus.

^' How well you spoke ! " Luce said at last,
emboldened by the murmur of voices around
her.

*^ Do you know," he confessed, '' that you
were an enormous help to me. You have
such a strange power ; it seemed to me when
I looked at you that you knew what I was
trying to say, that you were disentangling
my thoughts for me, and pushing me on. '
Have you ever been told this before ? "

'' Yes, I have. I think the reason is that
I am conscious, as it were, of two lives, the
one is my own, the other that of any persons
in whom I am interested. I seem to feel
their sensations ; to know what they are
experiencing ; to understand the effect of
things upon them. I can almost speak their
words before they utter them "

•^ I never met with anything like it
before," said Dick, thoughtfully; "I should

like you to be always present when I have
to make a speech."

should you?" Luce blushed a little
under her swansdown.

*^ Yes. It is a most curious faculty ; what
can it be, do you think ? "

'^ I suppose it is mesmeric. I live a great
deal alone, and then I am very imaginative,
When I am, as it were, placed in mental
contact with persons, I live their life instead
of my own, and am worked upon by the
conditions that affect them '*

^^ Have you ever talked to anyone about
these things ? I should like to know
if "

^^ Oh, no, no ! " Luce grew anxiously
agitated; '' please never mention anything
about me. I should not like to be discussed.
If you had not found this out I should never
have told you "

^' I promise not to speak of it, but tell me
one thing. You said you must be interested
in people before you felt this strange kind of
sensation. Then you were interested in
me?"

'^ I suppose I was," she said, shyly.

^^ We have scarcely ever spoken. Do you

know that was a great compliment to pay
me?" he said after a pause.

^' T did not mean it as a compliment."

^* I am sure of that. You never compliment
people, and yet you say prettier things
than anyone I ever met. What did you
think of Julian Bruce to-night?"

'' He was splendid."

^* Wasn't he ? Now there's a man you
ought to be ' en rapport' with."

^' No, he is stronger than I am ; he is too
self-contained, one cannot pierce to the depths
of his soul. He would never have felt my
influence as you did to-night."

'^ Then I shall keep you all to myself like
a kind of Egeria — is that a compact, will you
help me?"

'^ I will do what I can," said Luce, simply,
'^ but you overrate my power. I am a very
ordinary, quiet kind of person. Now, Maud
Hardfast, for instance, is much cleverer''

'^ Perhaps, but you are not to be compared
together. Maud is not really sympathetic,
though she is very pleasant."

*' And I am never thought pleasant. My
aunt says I am so silent that no one cares to
talk to me; in fact, Mr. Carrol, I am a

failure, a social failure. Haven't you found
that out ? "

^^No, and, what's more, I don't believe it."
A sudden jerk here informed them that
the omnibus was drawn up against the steps
of the Castle, and one by one the company
filed into the dining-room, where a tempting
supper was laid out.

^' What a ghost you look ! " whispered
Maud, unkindly, to Luce, who in her
white cloak, and with her white cheeks,
presented rather a spectral appearance.
'i'll bet you've been asleep; it's such a
stupid thing to do, one always wakes upto
resemble an owl in an ivy-bush, blinking
at the light. We sang all the way home.
Arthur Stern ey has a capital voice." Then
Maud took Dick under her protection, and
insisted on his helping her to chicken mayonnaise,
and Lady Eleanor found fault because
the footmen were so slow, and there
were too many lights. Lady Eleanor's complexion
was a little too delicate to stand a
glare. Arthur Sterneyy began to tell quiet
Luce stories about burlesque actresses, and
Lord Newlands in a pompous voice entertained
Mr. Highview with his views on

politics, and Lady Newlands hunted everywhere
for a diamond brooch she declared
she had lost, and requested honest Bruce,
who was dreamily munching sandwiches, to
get up and shake the skirts of his coat, lest
the brooch should have fallen into them.
Meanwhile the butler poured him out a full
glass of champagne, which in his disturbance
he forgot to drink, a trifling fact which caused
the butler to confide to the housekeeper that
'^ that 'ere Bruce was a strange fellow, not
used to the ways of gentlefolks, he dared
say."

And then, every body having congratulated
every body else on the success of the evening,
the ladies tripped away with a thousand
good nights, the elder ones smothering a
yawn behind their bed-candlesticks, the
younger ones smiling at the men standing
below, and the male members retired to the
smoking-room to drink whiskey and water,
and discuss politics, hunting, racing, and
women, until one by one slipped off to bed
in the small hours of the morning.

CHAPTER XI.

The meeting in the Town Hall introduced a
lull into the political campaign, and the following
day, when Dick received a missive
from his grandmother informing him of an
indisposition traceable to a bad cold, and expressing
a wish to see him, he determined to
start off at once and pay the duty visit wlrch
had been so long deferred. Not that he objected
to stay at what was virtually his
home, nor that he was wanting in the fullest
love and respect to his grandmother, who
indeed deserved the very fullest, but because
Long Learn was an extremely dull house,
and his uncle and Aunt Vincent were staying
there. Between his Aunt Vincent and himself
there raged an honest, uncompromising
hatred, which it may be confessed Dick took
no trouble to diminish. However the disagreeable

duty had to be accomplished,
and, supported by the faithful Bruce, whose
arrival was duly notified to Mrs. Carrol by
telegram, Dick started for his home.

Long Leam lay in a wooded, undulating
district; the house itself stood on low ground,
and might be considered an uninteresting pile
of eighteenth century architecture, but the vast
gardens and splendid grounds were an object
of admiration to all visitors. They had remained
untouched ever since they were laid
out in the stiff and formal manner affected
by our ancestors; the yew hedges had
waxed round, and high, and portly, till they
formed a massive wall of greenery ; the turf
grew as delicate, as thick, and as soft, as a
lady's drawing-room carpet ; the gravel-walks,
broad and smooth, showed neither
weed nor fissure ; the square pieces of water,
euphoniously called lakes, lay clear, and
still, and limpid in the sunshine, as when
they reflected the faces of a powdered belle
or a bewigged beau ; the trees and shrubs,
carefully tended and punctually trimmed,
reached the perfection of beauty and luxuriance
; the old sun-dial stood, as it had stood
for more than a century, stolid and moss-grown

and venerable, telling the time with
praiseworthy inaccuracy; the very wild-fowl,
fluttering and splashing about the reeds and
bulrushes that adorned the edges of the
mere, were descendants of the old birds
introduced in the reign of the first George.
Under those groves it was said Pope had
walked, and in that alley Burke composed
some of his most famous orations. The
interior of the house corresponded; the rooms
large and lofty, were but barely furnished,
the sofas of an uncomfortable period, hard
and high-backed ; the damask curtains somewhat
faded ; and the tables spindle-legged
and ugly; but then the beauty of the cabinets,
massive and unique, the collection of old
china, unchecked and unbroken, perfect and
priceless, compensated for these drawbacks.
The old print that hung in the hall depicted
the mansion as it existed in the time of Queen
Anne ; and a comparison of the picture and
the reality showed scarcely a bush or shrub
to be missing. A respectable flavour of
antiquity hung about the mansion, and, according
to the disposition of the visitor,
inspired him with feelings of gravity or contempt.
The free-and-easy spirit of modern

society was entirely absent from these walls,
of which the mistress herself was not the
least appropriate adornment. A handsome
old lady, with a complexion of rose and
white as delicate as precious china, kind blue
eyes, and the tenderest smile imaginable
always hovering on the fine curved lips,
so gracious and so innocent, a mouth that
bespoke her nature, a nature never smirched
with the sand and dirt so apt to bespattered
us all, but full of imaginative charity, the
charity that can picture others' temptations
and make allowance for them ; she lived
alone, and ruled her house with a mixture
of gentleness and firmness. Always clad in
the daintiest of silks, preserved by a little
white muslin apron, her white hair gathered
modestly beneath a pretty cap, set with ribbons
to match her gown, and a bunch of keys and
scissors hanging by her side, she formed a
lovely picture. And even those who sneered
on the score of old-fashionedness were constrained
to own her beauty ; in her, old age
was adorable, and the decline of life a
glorious sunset. '^ Granny," she was called
by her son, Mr. Vincent Carrol, and her
daughter-in-law Mrs. Vincent, and '' Granny"

she was to everyone par excellence. Her
stately dignity and her sweet sprightliness,
her gentle consideration for the feelings of
the humblest, were, indeed, things inexplicable
to Mrs. Vincent, who was formed of
coarse common clay, and rather despised,
while she traded on, the Chelsea-china brilliancy
and daintiness of the grandmother's
composition. Mr. Vincent, who must have
inherited some alien blood, loved his mother
in a rough downright fashion, laughing a
little at her peculiarities, yet rejoicing in
the certainty of her generosity and forgiveness.
For Mr. Vincent was her second son ;
the eldest, Dick's father, had died young,
quickly following his young wife, and Dick
was the direct heir to Mrs. Carrol. That
this brat should have lived, and have lived
to be strong and handsome and hearty, considerably
vexed Mr. Vincent and his wife,
who had extravagant tastes and a quiverful
of children. In vain Vincent, who was a
bluff and retraced sportsman, and a constant
attendant at racecourses, ventured to cavil at
his mother's openhandedness to her dependants,
and to her grandson ; in vain Mrs.
Vincent preached the necessity of self-denial

for young people; Mrs. Carrol, in her sweet,
quiet way, paid everything young Dick
asked her and a good deal he had the
grace not to ask. For Dick Carrol had
been given an Eton education, including
unlimited pocket-money, had enjoyed a
university career with its attendant hunting
and other luxuries, had betted too,
and lost occasionally, and his grandmother,
after a few serious words of warning, had
settled his debts. Now she was embarked
in all the expenses of an election, and, to use
Vincent's words, '' there seemed no end to
the thing." Vincent himself would have
liked to bet largely and keep racehorses, but
his means only allowed of clandestine and
fringe-like visits to racecourses, and a doubtful
hanging on to the skirts of turf notoriety,
and the contrast between his purse and his
natural desires sharpened his jealousy and
dislike of his nephew. Mrs. Vincent, who
was no l)lood relation, and, therefore, as she
said, had no appearances to keep up,
nourished this dislike with all her might,
and sought on every occasion to place Dick
in an unfavourable light before his grandmother's
eyes. There was scant difficulty

VOL. I. M

in this, for stories of Dick's wildness or
reports of his lavish extravagance constantly
reached her ears, and were repeated with
considerable variation and embroidery to the
unwillingly listening grandmother. Mr. and
Mrs. Vincent contrived, on their part, to
extract a good deal of comfort from Grannie ;
they stayed with her. accompanied by their
entire family of eight children, for weeks
together, they shot and eat her game, they
rode her horses, they made her pay for dear
Lottie's doctor, or Tommy's vacation tutor,
or Mary's singing lessons ; they drove out
in her carriage, and paid visits to their
friends, and usually arrived, dressed in such
shabby clothes, that, from pure shame.
Grannie consented to clothe them anew in
fashionable garments. At this moment, Mr.
and Mrs. Vincent had arrived on a nice long
visit. Dick, hoeing aware of this fact, and
knowing how grating to his nerves was the
proximity of his aunt and uncle, nowise
relished the prospect, but comforted himself
by the recollection of Bruce's kind and genial
society, to which he resolved chiefly to con-line
himself. '^ Dick comes to-day," said Mrs.
Vincent at breakfast, (Granny was having

hers on a tray in her bedroom, in consequence
of her indisposition), '^ and I understand
he brings a friend, a Mr. Bruce ; do
you know anything of him ? "

'' I've seen him' replied her husband,
plunging into a pheasant-pie and carefully
extracting all the truffles he could find, ^' a
seedy looking fellow, rather short-sighted,
and can't shoot."

'^ That's a blessing ! then dear Witty can
take his place and make the fourth gun."

'^ It isn't necessary for the boys always to
shoot."

'' Poor dears! they get little enough of it,
and now Dick returns they will get less."

"" They're welcome to my share at least,
for on Thursday I'm going over to Westhorpe
to see a little black mare that I am told is a
wonder, and Friday I must attend Bigness
races."

'' And you will be away nearly every day
while Dick is here; well, you are a fool!"
retorted Mrs Vincent, closing her lips with
a sharp click.

^^Wliy, he doesn't ^^aw^ nef'' said Mr.
Vincent innocently, rolling his blood-shot
goggle-eyes round the table.

M 2

'' I want you ; if Dick has his grandmother
all to himself he will get anything in the
world out of her," retorted Mrs. Vincent.

^' Oh, bother ! I can't turn amateur detective."


'^ You might at least take a little trouble
for the sake of your family."

'^ If that little black mare is as good as they
say, she will about win the Liverpool, and
I expect to pick up a tenner or two at
Bigness races; that is some good to my family
isn't it ? " Mr. Vincent sat down and drank
o^ his tea with a satisfied gurgle.
^' You men are all the same, you never
look beyond your nose," snapped his wife.

'^ And you women are always nagging ;
can not a man be master in his own house ? I
should like to know who is to prevent him
from doing as he pleases?"

'' When he pleases to fritter away his
money in racing, and gambling, and idle
amusements, he is not fit to be master."

'^ Oh, isn't he? I'll just show you." Mr.
Vincent rose, and his face grew red while he
spluttered, ^' Mind your own business, and
I'll mind mine. I'll trouble you not to
interfere in my affairs. I'll race if I please.

and I will bet if I please, and you are not the
person who can stop me. I shall do just as
I please, and your duty, madam, is to
obey — dye hear ? to ohey'^

Therewith Mr. Vincent marched out of
the room holding his head very high, and
passing by the butler's pantry looked in and
bethought him to ask for a nip of brandy,
fortified by which cordial, he strode round
to the stables. Mrs. Vincent, meanwhile,
shrugging her shoulders, placidly finished
her breakfast, gathered up her letters, and proceeded
to Granny's room. A. little quarrel
with her husband in nowise disturbed the
harmony of her married life; she was accustomed
to these trifling scenes, which broke
the monotony of her humdrum existence and
gave her a taste of the excitement which
more worldly women find in intrigue or
flirtation. Besides, she knew that her husband
relied on her judgment and generally
followed her advice, and, though she regarded
him as a fool, and felt that he must
be driven and guided for his own good, occasional
kicks and rebellion against bit and
bridle only served to solidify her influence
and to give her a pleasing sense of power.

Granny's own room was the smallest in the
house, a den of some six feet by twelve, but
here at least she reigned supreme ; the nook
was sacred from intrusion on the part of the
young Vincent, and, being chiefly furnished
with shabbily-bound books, and littered with
business papers, appealed neither to cupidity
nor to an aesthetic sense of beauty.

Yet Grannie was very happy here. Lie
was free from Mrs. Vincent's carping meanness,
and from Vincent's noisy jokes. She
was surrounded by her beloved books, her
poets, and her classic authors, for Mrs. Carrol,
confessing it only shamefacedly and to
her intimate friends, was a true student.
Shakespeare, Milton, and the lake poets
rose to her lips unconsciously, and it would
have been difficult to find a quotation which
she could not cap, nor quickly name the
author. Her education was of theol-fashioned
solid order; she possessed no showy accomplishments
beyond a pretty talent for
water-colour painting, which she continued
to cultivate even with the drawbacks of old
age and spectacles ; but everything within
the bounds of reason that a cultivated
woman ought to know was familiar to her.

Slip had decided opinions on literature, on
art, on politics, and on religion, though a
peculiarly bashful and modest reticence made
people sometimes think that old Mrs. Carrol
was weak and easily led. So nmch of her
life was unselfish, so unassuming were her
own personal pleasures, consisting of her
garden, her charities, and her books, that
the warmth of strong passion and earnest
affection that lay buried in her tender heart
was almost hidden from the world. People
called her a nice intelligent old lady, but few
understood that the ordinary run of men
and women were scarce worthy to be named
with her. Dick alone appreciated her; he had*
realised something of the wealth of unselfish
devotion that formed the keystone of Granny's
character, but even he presumed on her
kindness and tried her patience severely.
Mrs. Carrol looked up somewhat surprised
at Mrs. Vincent's knock and almost simultaneous
entrance. '' What is it? " she said,
gently, yet with a tinge of vexation in her
quiet voice.

'' I am sure I hope I don't disturb you, but
I wanted a little talk with you, and I thought
Dick would be here directly."

^ I certainly hope he will arrive to-day,
but I do not expect him so early," said
clever Granny, undeceived by this transparent
pretext.

'' What prospects has he of election ? ''
continued Mrs. Vincent, sitting down on a
chair whence she calmly ousted a fat dictionary
and two volumes of poetry.

^' 1 believe they are very good."

^'It is very strange, isn't it, for so young
a man to be elected M.P. for the county, I
think Vincent would have been a far more
respectable choice," she continued, smoothing
out her apron sedately.

^^ I do not know that Vincent wished it,
or was asked, and I am very glad for Dick
to have an occupation," said Mrs. Carrol.

^' To be sure, anything is better than that
deplorable racing'' said Mrs. Vincent, fixing
her beadle eyes on the old lady, 'sand
Dick is so very fond of the turf."

'^ Young people like excitement. I suppose
it is natural enough, but without doubt
Dick will steady down ; his wish to get into
Parliament proves it."

'^ Really ! Well, now I thought it was
Lady Eleanor that had willed it ; she is a

managing woman, I believe, and rules everyone
connected with her. I only met her
once and I thought her most objectionable ;
she had a crowd of young men round her,
and was dressed splendidly, but dreadfully
low-necked. I can't think how Mr. High-view
can stand the show and expense."

'' He has a large fortune," Mrs. Carrol
said, tapping the paper-cutter against her
book a little impatiently, but Mrs. Vincent
would not take the hirit ; she had not yet
finished.

^^ They will get hold of Dick, I suppose.
There's nothing like a worldly woman to influence
a young man, and Dick is so weak."

Mrs. Carrol did not answer, she was weary
of finding excuses.

Let me see, she has a daughter or a
niece or something, hasn't she ? A possible
wife for Dick ; how should you like that ? "

'^ My dear Maria, what is the good of
speculating? As far as I know, matrimony
is far from Dick's thoughts, and Lady
Eleanor's niece or another would be welcome
if she made Dick a good wife."

^^ I don't suppose he does think of marrying
; why it is only a few months ago, if you

remember, that we heard he was in love with
Evelyn Bray, the present Lady Fen church.
It was Mrs. Twitter who told us, you know
when she came to inquire the character of a
servant. She thought Evelyn Bray had behaved
very badly in the matter."

'^ My dear, why rake up these things ?
Lady Fenchurch is a young woman, and we
have no right to blacken her character.
Mrs. Twitter may have been mistaken."

'not a bit of it. I have an excellent
memory ; but I see you are busy, and perhaps
my society is unwelcome'' she added,
viciously. '' I only wanted to ask you if you
could spare me that little bit of chinchilla
trimming you promised for dear Mary's
cloak; the poor child really has not a winter
wrap, and it makes me wretched to see her.
If you could spare it now, and you're quite
sure you won't miss it "

Mrs. Carrol, without answering, rose and
opened the door of her bedroom.

'' Never mind ringing for Cox, Granny ;
I know where she keeps your furs, and I can
easily get it without troubling any one — do
you hear ? — any one."

But Mrs. Carrol was firm; she rang for

the maid, who in high dudgeon found and
silently handed over the fur, feeling, as she
expressed it, *^ downright sorry that her mistress
was stripping herself of everything at
the bidding of that hateful Mrs. Vincent."

^^ And now if that is all, Maria, I think I
will go on with my letters'' quietly remarked
Granny, lest Dick should come
before 1 have finished''

Mrs. Vincent, forced to content herself
with this dismissal, snatched up the chinchilla,
and, murmuring hurried thanks, retired
to her own room to consult Mary about
her mantle.

Mrs. Carrol gave a faint sigh when she .
was left alone, and glanced a little hopelessly
round her book-shelves ; the society of those
near and dear to one was certainly trying ;
yet she felt she had much to be thankful for;
and, plunging again into the consideration
of her household books, she endeavoured
to forget her daughter-in law's unwelcome
intrusion, and to attribute her behaviour to
want of thought rather than want of heart,
for was not Mrs. Vincent actuated by the
most creditable mother's love ? So easy is it
for the pure in heart to see good in everything.


CHAPTER XII.

In due time Dick and his friend arrived at
Long Learn, having driven over sixteen miles
in a dog-cart. Dick greeted his grandmother
most affectionately, but the welcome his
aunt gave him was tinged with exceeding
frigidity. However, he bore it well, laughed
and joked, inquired after his uncle, and complimented
Granny on her hothouse flowers.

'^ The chrysanthemums have not been
quite as fine aii usual'' said Granny, flattered
at his remembering her pet hobby, ^^ and
Smith has been rather depressed, but I really
think on the whole we did as well as our
neighbours''

'^ Gardens cost a dreadful quantity oi'
money," said Mrs. Vincent, impressively.

Granny, who fancied this an allusion to
her expenditure, hastened to add, ^^ I only
keep up the gardens just as they were in
my dear husband's time. He wished it to

be so, and the fern-house I put up last year
was built with my pin-money."

'' Of course, of course, dear Granny, we
all know how fond you are of your garden,
and we should none of us wish you to give
up anything you really liked, but I was only
saying that these amusements are dreadfully
expensive, and particularly now when there
is so much poverty everywhere, and hundreds
of people starving. You should just
read the report I got from our district visitor
yesterday. We live in Marylebone, you
know — such a poor parish — it makes one
wonder whether it is quite right to spend so
much on oneself " -

Granny flushed a little. Mrs. Vincent's
words seemed to accuse her of selfishness.
'^ Perhaps," she said, a little hastily, '' I
dare say you are right, Maria ; but now tell
me, Dick, have you lunched ? "

'eyes, thank you. Granny; we eat some
cold beef and pickles just before starting,
and have scarcely got up an appetite since."

Bruce, who, when the ceremony of presentation
was over, felt himself a little
isolated in the family circle, now wandered
round the room examining the book-shelves.

Presently lie approached Mrs. Carrol, and
said, ^' You have some fine old books here, I
see ; if you will permit me I should like to take
a look at some of them tomorrow "

^' Delighted, indeed, Mr. Bruce," said
Mrs. Carrol, enchanted to find a sympathetic
book-lover, '' I will show you where the
rarest are. We have a fine old edition of
Montaigne, and some manuscripts of the sixteenth
century, if you care for such things."
She drew from her pocket the key of the
book-case, and presently Bruce and she
were happily bending their heads and
trying their eyes over musty folios, and
discussing type and editions to their heart's
content. Dick stood by the window whistling
low. Mrs. Vincent approached him.
^' Is it true," she said, " that Lady Eleanor's
niece will inherit her uncle's fortune ? "

^' I really don't know," answered Dick,
wondering on what pretext he could make
his escape.

^' But what is she like — I am told she is
very plain ? "

She — who ? Oh, I beg your pardon, yes.
I never thought about it. I suppose Miss
Windermere is plain, but she is very nice''

^' That Miss Hardfast was there too



was not she ? Not married yet, I suppose.
Ah, well, she was a fast, bold girl, and how
she and her mother contrive to live on the
pittance they have, I am sure I can't think —
there are some queer stories afloat about
them. People call them the 'birds of prey,'
you know."

'' She is my cousin," said Dick, angrily.

^' Of course, yes, in a distant way ; let me
see, your mother was a sister of Mr. Hard-fast
— that's scarcely much of a relationship
the Hardfasts were nobodies ; but Mrs.
Hardfast was worse than a nobody, she was
a garrison belle."

Dick was about to reply, in terms anything
but complimentary, to his aunt's observations,
when the door opened and Vincent
Carrol entered noisily. '^ Ah, Dick, my
boy, delighted to see you ; drove over, did
you ? shocking bad road, ain't it ? stones all
the way ; doesn't matter though in a hired
trap. Well, and how goes it ?— you look
pretty fit." Mr. Vincent did not stood for
Dick's answer, but proceeded, following his
mother to the bookshelves, '^ Mother, that
coachman of yours is a fool ; he has lamed

the bay mare, and got the ■ grey so fat he
can scarcely go at all I gave him a bit of
my mind to-day ; all ladies' coachmen are
the same ; they don't understand their business,
but they know they're safe, because
their mistresses are so confoundedly ignorant.
Have you been round to the stables yet,
Dick ? No ? then you just come along with
me. I have got a new pointer to show you
a beauty." Dick, who infinitely preferred
his uncle to his aunt, the coarse selfishness
of the one, being at least frank and unaffected,
while the secret cunning and intrigue
of the other stung like a serpent in
the dark, accepted the offer gratefully, and
without compunction left Bruce to entertain
his grandmother.

^' A very pleasant young man — exceptionally
well-informed," Granny confided at a
later period to Dick; while Bruce, who
knew nothing about dogs, and cared less for
horseflesh, continued to explain recondite
allusions and interpret Greek quotations
in her favourite books, never even discovering
that Mrs. Vincent prowled round, furious
at the interest Mrs. Carrol was taking in
her visitor, and vainly trying to pick up

intelligible scraps of the conversation in
order that she might find a pretext for interrupting
the fascinating tete-astute. All that
afternoon Vincent and his nephew strolled
about the stables and the kennel and the
farm, ending with a trudge across some
stubble-fields to have a look at a colt in
Farmer Rogers's paddock, Vincent, who did
not care who his companion was provided
he could smoke and talk about horses, made
himself exceedingly agreeable to his nephew,
told him he was delighted at the prospect
of his election, and wasn't a bit envious, no,
not he ! finally confided to him his intention
of buying the black mare, in order to win the*
Liverpool, and the difficulty that stood in
the way of his carrying out this project.
'^ The fact is, my dear boy'' he said, staring
glassily out of his codfish eyes, ^' the fellow
wants 800Z. for the mare ; it's dirt cheap ; she's
worth it, every bit of the money, but ita
deuce of a lot, and just now with Christmas
coming on, you know, and a lot of bills,
I am a little pressed for money ; but if I
don't decide at once (I've got the refusal of
the mare) she will be sold to another man
who is sweet upon her ; it would be a thou-vol.

I. N

sand pities, for she's certain to win, and —
that's how it is."

^^It would be a great pity," said Dick,
thinking of something else.

'' Now, my dear boy, if you would advance
me the money, you should go halves in the
profits "

^^ But I haven't the money

'?

'' That does not signify — my mother will
give it you, if you ask her ; she is devoted
to you, as we all know."

^' I don't think I should like to ask her,
she disapproves of racing "

'well, don't tell her what the money's
for. Say it's election business, or that you
have run into debt — or something ; you've
got brains — you'll know what to say."

^' It is rather difficult," muttered Dick.

'' The thing is a certainty; I know there is
nothing can beat that mare, and we can
hedge the bet and stand several thousands
to nothing''

'^ I don't care so much about the money,
but I should like the kudos of winning the
Liverpool."

'' So would everybody — then it is settled ;
you must get the money and I'll buy the

•

mare and take all the trouble off your hands
it is a safe investment you will see, only
trust to me''

Dick did not quite like it. He hated telling
his grandmother a lie, and he knew she
objected to racing; on the other hand he
was fired with the ambition to become a
hero in the sporting world, and the thing
was an excitement in itself; besides, his
uncle Vincent was a first-rate judge of horseflesh,
and not likely to make a mistake. So
he parted from his uncle promising to give
him the money if he could obtain it.

The month of November had been specially
fine. Glorious sunsets were succeeded by
bright clear mornings, and to breathe the
bracing air became a pleasure. It was Mrs.
Carrol's habit whenever the weather permitted,
to walk up and down the terraces
and visit her hothouses every morning for
an hour. Dick offered her his arm, and
the good lady, counting herself fortunate to
possess so attentive a grandson, spent some
happy moments parading in the genial sunshine,
leaning on her stalwart grandson's
arm, and pointing out to him the merits of
tree and shrub. It was during one of these

N 2

airings that Dick propounded to her his
request for Sool''

Eight hundred pounds ! '' she said, stopping
short in her walk and looking hard at
Dick, who had some ado to keep from blushing
; '^ it is a large sum."

'" Yes, it is," he sheepishly confessed.

'^ And what are you going to do with it ? "

^' Well, you see " This was the difficult
moment ; he could not say, ' ' I am going
to buy a racehorse ; " and like many a better
man he prevaricated, regardless of possible
consequences.

' Well, you see, Granny, there are a lot
of expenses for this election''

Send me in your bill, Dick, and I will

' Yes ; but there are trifles which cannot
be included in an election bill."

^' Eight hundred pounds is scarcely a
trifle ! "

"No; but college was so expensive, I have
a few debts I should like to settle. Hang it.
Granny, I want the money, and I must have
it ; please don't ask me any more questions."

The old lady took her grandson's arm
again and proceeded a little way in silence.

^' Dick's she said at last, ^' I trust you —
if you require this money you shall have it ;
only be careful, dear ; I am not very well
able to spend just now, and perhaps the
garden is expensive, and I ought to retrench ;
you know that I wish to do all that is right
towards you, you are my heir, this place
will be yours." She waved her hand towards
the terrace and the old yew hedges
and the mere. '^ I wish to leave you everything
intact ; it is a fine property, Dick, a
fine property, but we must not be extravagant''


^' You are very kind, Granny'' Dick's
head sank a little ; he pushed with his stick*
at some weeds in the path.

'' I should like to put by something, Dick,
first for your uncle — he is not rich and has a
large family, and then for you - you will
marry a wife some day, and she will be
young and gay, and find this house old-fashioned,
and wish for new furniture and
pretty things."

'^ Long Leam is beautiful ; we shall be
quite satisfied," Dick said, deprecatingly.

'eyes, my dear. Long Leam is beautiful,
and it suits an old woman like me ] it reminds

me of my girlhood, and I prefer to
see everything about me that has grown old
with me ; but young people are different —
she will want low arm-chairs and feather
screens, and frippery and new carpets, and
all that. You shall give them to her, Dick ;
but I must save the money for it, and so
please do not mind if I say we must not be
extravagant''

She smiled one of the gentle spiritual
smiles, which made you think her soul was
already in heaven, and that the earthly
smile was only the reflection of divine glory,
and Dick hung his head lower, shamed by
her goodness, speechless in his confusion.

^^ But you shall have the money, dear ; I
was going to do up the conservatory, and
get some new vines, and have some fresh
hot-water pipes put in, but all that can wait,
and if you will come to my room presently
I will give you the cheque."

Dick did not answer, but he took the dear
old lady's hand with its mittens, and the
quaint antique disagree gold rings set in
garnets and emeralds on her fingers, and,
lifting it to his lips, kissed it reverently.
Here, at least, was true nobility, a heart

that gave lavishly, generously, and exacted
nothing in return. Nothing ? Why, it extorted
respect, and gained love — the bargain
was surely a fair one.

When Dick handed over the cheque to
his uncle, he could not help saying, with a
gravity somewhat foreign to his nature,
'' You are quite sure we are making a
good purchase ? — you know I couldn't bear
Granny's money to be wasted."

'^ Wasted ! bless you, there isn't a chance
of it ; why the money is as safe as in the
funds. I'll go this very day and close the
sale, and telegraph to Tommy Lighthearted
that he is to ride her. With such a mare,*
and such a jockey, we are as safe as a
church."

Long Leam was as dull as ever, but Dick
was so attentive to his grandmother, and so
anxious to shoot her coverts as she wished,
and to be civil to the neighbours she invited
to make up the number of the guns, and
so ready to carry her knitting, or put on her
shawl, or convey her orders to the gardener,
that he had not time to think of being bored.
In the evenings he and Bruce held endless
smoking parliaments in Dick's room (which

being at the end of a long passage, and shut
off by a baize door, he was permitted to
pollute with tobacco), and settled the affairs
of the nation ; but though Dick discoursed
freely of politics and pleasure he carefully,
as by some special instinct, refrained from
mentioning his purchase of the black mare,
or his hopes of winning the Liverpool ; and
if by chance his uncle began the subject of
racing in Bruce's presence he would turn
the conversation and say, ^^ You know, uncle,
Julian is not a sporting character, so all this
talk is only Greek to him ; get him upon
politics, and see if he doesn't find something
interesting to tell us."

Thus even Bruce, his Fidus Achates, did
not know the deepest depths of Dick's soul,
nor suspect what a multitude of various
interests occupied his mind.

CHAPTER XIII.

The black mare was bought and the jockey
duly engaged, and all promised well for the
success of Mr. Vincent's project. Unfortunately
the public had also got wind of the
mare's excellence, so that the price he was able
to obtain about her was not nearly so advantageous
as he had hoped ; still this served but
to confirm his good opinion of the purchase,
and he comforted himself with the thought
that a little later on they would be able to
hedge their money. But Dick could not
dally for ever by an old lady's chair ; the
election agent clamoured for his return,
and Mr. High view claimed his promise of
another visit. So after a few days he took a
tender farewell of his grandmother ; his
heart smote him and he kissed her more
fondly than usual; and, leaving Mr. and Mrs.

Vincent to bear her company, returned to
High view Castle. Most of the company had
departed, and only Maud Hardfast, who,
having lost Arthur Sterneyy, was sadly at a
loss for amusement, remained behind to
welcome him. The most constant of men
weary of overmuch affection ; and Dick, who
was used to Maud's beauty, and began to
see through some of her artifices (especially
since she had ]played him off against Arthur
Sterneyy), found her attentions somewhat
overpowering. As his aunt Vincent once
truly observed, after all Maud was scarcely
a relation, and to be seen constantly in her
presence, and eternally hanging over and
monopolised by her, might lead to complications.
He had not the smallest intention of
marrying her, he was not even in love with
her. She possessed no money, and a
good many doubtful relations; and to undertake
the responsibility of matrimony was far
enough from his thoughts. But he was
perfectly aware of the power of gossip, and
he decided that it would be advisable to display
interest in some one else in order to
disarm suspicion. For this purpose Luce
presented herself most opportunely. She

was plain and unassuming", and no one could
suppose her to be attractive to a gay young
man, so that his attentions could only be
interpreted to mean civility. Thus it happened
that Dick found himself often by
Luce's side, that he took her in to dinner
whenever he had the chance, and that he
would turn over the leaves of her music-book,
or wind a skein of worsted for her if
she desired it. Lady Eleanor watched these
indications of a rising attachment with
pleasure, but Maud turned sick with annoyance,
and almost fell ill from worry.

'you little sly minx'' she said, attacking
Luce one dav in the corridor. ^'How dared
you say you didn't care to steak to Mr.
Carrol, and that you would do your best to
help me, when you know you're always with
him now, and scarcely let me get a word in
edgeways. I hate girls who are humbugs
and hypocrites, and you did pretend to be
superior to love and marriage."

'so I am'' said Luce, quietly. ^^Mr.
Carrol does not love me, but if he pleases to
talk to me a little, and I find his company
agreeable, I don't see why I should not permit

it. He will not marry you the sooner
because he does not talk to me."

^^Of course he will. You're trying to
spoil my plans, you know you are — you
nasty venomous little reptile."

^' Don't be angry, Maud; I can't help it.
I don't know what is the reason, but I am
sure Mr. Carrol avoids you."

'' And, if it is so, I know the reason: your
own flirtation (and really, for a new hand,
you're not at all bad) is the cause of it. 1
did not think you could be so mean, so
ungenerous."

Here Maud pulled out her pocket-handkerchief
and pretended to cry — perhaps she
really did shed a few tears — for wounded
vanity suffers nearly as much as love.

^^ Dear Maud ! '' Luce put her arms round
her neck and kissed her affectionately ;
^^ don't cry. I promise not to speak to Mr.
Carrol to-day, at least not if I can help it."

remind, now, you remember your promise."
Maud put away her handkerchief
and smiled again graciously. ^' Remember
not one word."

^^ I said if 1 could help it," added Luce, as
she passed quickly on. She had given the

promise in a fit of generosity, but Mr.
Carrol's own action might absolve her. If
he sought her out, if he came and sat by her
as usual, she could not turn her back, or be
uncivil. No ; in that case she 7nust speak to
him. In all honesty, however, she tried to
render this less likely. Dick had been away
all day canvassing, and he only returned intime
for dinner. His place was next Lady
Eleanor, and Luce at the other end of the
table had no chance of sharing in their conversation.
After dinner she chose a position
between Mrs. Hardfast's portly person and a
large table, on which were scattered books
of photographs of Florence and Rome. One,
of these she seized, and made a pretence of
being deeply absorbed. When the gentlemen
came in she would not look up — for
aught she knew there might be magnetism
in her eye — but kept her head carefully bent
over the photographs.

Some moments of breathless waiting
elapsed before she heard a voice at her
elbow say: "What is engrossing you so
to-night ? "

Her heart leapt. He had found her out.
He had come to her without any finessing or

assistance on her part. She was absolved
from her promise, and he liked to talk to
her.

These varied emotions lent a sparkle to
her eye and a colon* to her cheek. ^'She
is really not so very plain," thought Dick, as
lie drew a chair near and sat down.

I can't talk to you with that great table
between us. I never knew you were so fond
of photographs before."

'' I am not particularly fond of photographs."


'^ Then why are you looking at them ? "

^^ That is my secret' said Luce with a
smile.

I think you mean mischief ; do come
away from behind the table and let us sit on
that sofa, it will be ever so much more comfortable."


^' You shouldn't talk to me," said poor
Luce, abruptly. She understood nothing
whatever of diplomacy or she would have
managed better. 'why don't you talk to
Maud ? She is sitting all alone, and has not
even any photographs to look at."

'' So she is," said Dick, quietly, stretching
himself more comfortably, " sitting all alone ;

well that must make quite a pleasant variety
for her, she is generally surrounded by all
the men in the room."

And she only cares for one."

'^ Do you mean me to be fatuous, and
apply your observation ? "

If you like."

'' Then I will not. I am sorry to disappoint
any young lady, but Maud must sit
alone to-night."

^^ It is hard upon her'' gently urged
Luce.

^^ Why hard ? She is nothing to me."

^^No! I thought "

^' Whatever you thought, forget, please,
from this moment. Maud is my cousin, a
very pretty, nice, lively girl, but nothing
more, and never will be."

^' Ave you sure?"

'^ Perfectly sure. You are the last person
who ought to doubt me."

^^Why?"

'' Why, because for the last day or two I
have devoted my time chiefly to you."

Luce coloured painfully. She understood.
He could talk to her because she did not
count, it could not signify. Her expressive

face told a tale. He saw he had wounded
her.

'what is it? What have I said, Miss
Windermere ? "

^' Nothing, Mr. Carrol ; nothing, at least,
that I mind."

'^ But I must have done wrong. I am sure
I am very sorry."

'^ See, my aunt is making me a sign ; weare
going to have some music." Luce rose
hastily and threaded her way quickly across
the room.

Dick sat on, sulky and alone, refusing to
stir. What a perverse world it was to be
sure ; if a man felt himself comfortable in a
girl's presence ten to one something happened
to separate them. No indeed. Luce
was certainly not plain, she had fine eyes
and the prettiest way of looking interested
in all you said, which was not without
charm, and she never wanted to talk about
herself, or to be paid compliments. Presently
Dick, bored with the music, and determined
to avoid Maud, slunk out of the room and retired
to enjoy a lonely pipe. Luce missed
him and sang badly in consequence. What
was the matter ? Had she offended him ?

She said to herself that no promises, no feeling
of loyalty, should tempt her to be cold
to him tomorrow. Maud must be mistaken,
he would never marry her. That evening,
Luce, sitting in her bed-room, her brown
hair streaming over her shoulders, and two
big serious eyes staring at her own reflection
in the looking-glass, had an air of extreme
youthfulness that became her exceedingly.
So thought even Lady Eleanor, who just then
walked in. Luce started.

'^ What are you doing there, child ? How
late you are sitting up ! Has Devon left
you ? ''

'^ Oh, yes, aunt," said Luce, hastily twist <
ingup her hair; '^ I shall be ready, directly,
I was only "

^^Only wool-gathering, as usual," observed
Lady Eleanor, seating herself on the edge of
the bed ; " when will you give up that bad
habit ? However, I must say I think you
are improved ; you are more sociable and
seem to get on nicely with Mr. Carrol. What
has he said to you ? "

We spoke of the election, and he told
me about his gi-and mother ^'

VOL. I. o

^^ Rubbish! I mean has he said — well, anything
really marked ? "

'' No, aunt, he has said nothing, he means
nothing ; he prefers Maud to me. Oh, why
can one never speak to a man without some
hateful after-thought of intentions spoiling
all ? "

^^Luce, my dear, you forget yourself''
said Lady Eleanor, severely ; ^ ^ and as to
Maud Hardfast, if I thought her presence
interfered with your prospects I should turn
her out of the house tomorrow."

^' No, she does not interfere," said poor
Luce incoherently, anxious to avert her aunt's
wrath from Maud, ^' but the fact is, there
is nothing at all to speak about."

^' Then there ought to be. Mr. Carrol is a
very eligible person; he has seemed to take
an interest in you, has shared your rides,
and apparently enjoys the same tastes; under
these circumstances, unless a girl is a fool,
she ought to know whether a man means
anything."

"• But he does not. Oh, aunt, do not say
such things ! " One glance at Luce's distressed
countenance impressed Lady Eleanor with the
truth of this statement. She relaxed her

severity a little, and rose majestically,
'^ Luce, I believe," she said, as she neared
the door, '^ I do believe you have your fate
in your own hands; let me beg of you not to
throw it away recklessly, or, from any foolish
scruples about other silly girls, render
yourself distasteful to the man who may
possibly offer you a happy home and true
affection'' Lady Eleanor usually talked
a great deal about true affection and the
domesticities ; she did not practise them much
herself, but the words sounded well, and
imposed upon her hearers. When Lady
Eleanor's stately footsteps ceased to echo
down the passage, and Luce once more felt
certain she was alone, she quickly put out her
candle and threw herself down by the bedside
in her white dressing-gown ; and then in
the darkness and the silence she let her tears
flow quietly, and her heart breathe out its
secret. ^'For I do love him'' she whispered
to the solitude of night. ^' I do love him;
he will never love me ; he is nothing to me,
he is so handsome, and so clever, and so happy,
but still I love him ; '' and the little figure
crouched on thus in the dark and the loneliness,
and the unsatisfied love with which

o2

her gentle soul was overflowing vented itself
in sobs and sighs. Lady Eleanor had trampled
cruelly on her most cherished feelings;
but then Lady Eleanor did not know — the
affection and domesticities of which she
spoke comprised none of the keen and
exquisite agony which Luce experienced.
Luce, who — proud, reserved, foolish little
creature — had given the devotion of her heart
to a man who had scarce passed three weeks
in her company. It was illogical, it was unlikely,
it was far from reasonable, and yet
Luce could not help it. In her lonely childhood,
and her stunted girlhood, she had
accumulated a volume of feeling, which now
spent itself on so ordinary a personage as
young Dick Carrol. For when we love wo
do not account the object so much as our
own capacity for loving. Love works
miracles ; it makes the plain girls pretty, the
dull men bright ; it transports the elastic soul
into regions of light and liberty, where it
can roam freely,, and irradiate the very
commonplaces of life with the ardent lava-stream
that consumes it. To love, all things
are possible, for everything is a miracle.
Luce loved, and in her madness reckoned
herself the most fortunate of mortals.

CHAPTER XIV.

For some days subsequently Luce was very
still and silent, her eyes were red-rimmed,
and her sad appearance attracted Lady
Eleanor's notice, drawing down upon her a
torrent of reproaches. It also attracted
Maud's attention, but it drew no reproaches*
from her.

^^Poor Luce'' she would say, caressingly,
^^ why do you vex yourself ? All men are
the same ; it is here to-day and there tomorrow,
with them ; they were not created
for constancy, and it is useless to expect it
of them."

'' I expect nothing," Luce answered, indifferently.


Oh, yes, you do. You expect a great
deal more than I have ever asked of men.
You give yourself no trouble, you take no

pains to be pleasant, in fact you rather avoid
them ; you would not even be content with
an offer of marriage, but you want love."

'^ Yes. I want love," said Luce.

'' I declare you are quite indelicate ; love
is not in fashion ; there are of course such
things as passion and madness ; we hear of
them in poetry and on the stage ; but who,
in the name of goodness, wants love in
ordinary life ? Why, it would be quite out
of place, like soup at breakfast. You are so
unpractical."

*^ Have not all the best things in life been
done by unpractical people ? All the reforms,
all the inventions, all the literature —
the authors of such things were always called
unpractical because they lived on a higher,
a heroic, plane of life."

'' Well, we are not inventors, and I'm sure
I don't wish to be heroic. We are only two
commonplace girls, and our business is to do
the best we can for ourselves. For my part,
if Dick sheers off now I shall marry Arthur
Sterneyy, debts and duns and all, and try if
I can't keep him in order." Therewith she
danced off to a mirror, posed herself, ruffled
up her golden fringe a bit, humming a valse

tune to herself as she did so, and finally
returned to where Luce sat, book in hand,
by the fire.

^' Seriously, Luce, what are you aiming
at ? "

^* I have already told you — at nothing.
Why should one always have some scheme
on hand ? "

^^Why? because it's human nature. Mamma
always schemed and I've inherited the
faculty. Ever since I can remember I have
always played a part. When I was a little
girl, and came down to the drawing-room in
short frocks and pink ribbons. Mamma used
to say to me, ' Now mind, Maud, you behave
nicely, and look pretty, or I don't
know what so-and-so will think of you.'
1 have gone on behaving nicely and looking
pretty ever since''

'^ It must be very fatiguing."

^^ Not a bit ; habit is second nature."

'^A very unpleasant second nature, I
should think. Shall you give up scheming
when you are married ? "

'certainly not. I shall want other things
then ; it is only the stupid sheeplike women
who sit down patiently and ask for nothing.

You're one of those ruminating creatures
Luce, and will never get your own way in
anything."

This was precisely what Luce said to herself.
She chid herself for foolish fancies and
happy day-dreams. She repeated to herself
over and over again that she was plain, and
that nobody could love her ; that Dick only
amused himself with her from desoeuvre-
ment and that he would soon go away, and
she would probably never see him again.
And yet, though she sought by every means
in her power to wrap herself in a mantle of
chilly stoicism, she could not help it that his
voice brought the blood into her cheeks, nor
that his step set her heart beating. No one
could say that Dick's notice of her was anything
but friendly and undemonstrative, and
just what was fitting to be paid to the
adopted daughter of his host, and yet Luce
felt that their intercourse was on a different
footing from ordinary acquaintance. Dick
talked to her as to a trusted friend ; as to
one in whose presence he need not be constrained,
and one who asked truth rather
than pretty speeches. He knew she was
neither mercenary nor intriguing, and the

sense of rest conveyed to him in this conviction,
served to render the companionship
doubly agreeable to a man who had never
known the frank and loving comradeship of
a sister. He found himself telling her things
that he had breathed to no living soul except
Bruce ; asking her advice, speaking of his
thoughts, his wishes, his illusions. She
knew all about his grandmother, and the
teazing reproaches of his aunt Vincent, and
the Gargantuan propensities of his uncle
Vincent ; she knew the names of his dogs,
how many rats Vic could kill, and the prizes
Gip took, and the age of the old hunter who
had carried him so well at college, and the
history of the pictures and the prints at
Long Leam. And Luce was never tired of
listening. Accustomed to the gaudy and
lavish splendour of Highview Castle, the
description of grannie, with her old-fashioned
gentle ways, her white-haired retainers, and
her clockwork establishment, charmed her
fancy and interested her imagination.

'' You must let me see your grannie," she
said one day, impulsively. '^ I have never
known of any one resembling her. She is
like an old chatelaine in a fairy tale."

'' She is just like one," Dick answered,
^' and 1 love her dearly, kind old thing ; but
you would perhaps find her antiquated."

^^ Not I ; my aunt might, but I like what
is old. Things are too new to please me
here," she answered, decidedly.

Dick, who in his heart of hearts was proud
of the fine old lady, smiled, and promised
to arrange an interview between them. These
conversations usually took place in the evening,
for Dick's electioneering business took upmost
of his time ; and thanks to Mr. High-view's
matter-of-fact energy and Bruce's
enthusiasm he was never allowed to grow
slack for an instant. Dick was beginning to
take a real interest in politics. Under such
able tuition as that of his friend Bruce this
was not surprising, for his political views
tinged every thought of Bruce's mind.

'' If politics do not mean everything to a
man," the latter would say, ^'they must
mean nothing ; for politics rightly considered
comprise every question of social and moral
importance. The family is a part of the state,
and the state includes the general well-being
of humanity. If the motive power of parties
be self-interest the decadence of a nation

cannot be far off, and is a mere matter of
time ; therefore, purity of election, universal
suffrage, and worthy candidates, are the three
chief ends to be desired. When you have
educated the masses and given them freedom
of citizenship, you are likely to arrive at
some consensus which will represent the
broadest and fairest level of thought."

Dick could not go quite so far as this ; he,
like Mr. Highview, preferred to wait and
let wants shape themselves rather than
dictate what form they should take. He
believed in a doctrine of atoms, that affinity
would attract and crystallize into the most
suitable forms. He thought things tolerably'
satisfactory as they were, and, that unless
distinct pressure were brought to bear upon
the prejudices and customs of society, it was
unnecessary to excite class feeling and party
spite. He wished to do what was right, but,
as he did not see his way clearly to what was
right, he preferred a passive and doubtful
attitude. The variety of problems that presented
themselves, their various discordant
elements, the contradictions that arrested his
footsteps and troubled his mind, all puzzled
while they interested him. He had no idea

that to be a Member of Parliament implied
such responsibilities, such a perpetual making
up one's mind, such constant and seemingly
important decisions. He began to be afraid
that he should be a useless member of the
House ; and felt helpless and irresolute.
Hitherto he had supposed that to take ones
place creditably in Parliamentary life it
needed only good health, stentorian lungs, a
habit of sitting up late, and an announcement
which placarded one amongst one's friends
as a Liberal or a Tory. Now, he found that
honesty was not always expediency, and
that if you agreed to one proposition it did
not follow as a corollary that you agreed
to a dozen others. Occasionally he felt
himself drawn towards a conservative creed,
especially if the question touched upon
personal matters, such as payment of rents,
or landlord's privileges, or the game-laws ;
at other times he boldly espoused radical
principles, and accused the Tories of blindness,
stupidity, and retrograde opinions.

'' Now you see, my dear boy," Mr. High-view
dinned into his ears, ^^ you can't work
on independent lines; it don't pay; first
belong to a party, then stick to it. You'll

find it the only advisable thing in the long-run.
Never make yourself peculiar, for then
every one is your enemy, but do as others
abide by a commonplace standard, and
you'll find all men your friends. Eccentricity
implies superiority, at least in your own
mind, and superiority rubs up every one's
back. A man can afford to forgive ; he
cannot bear to envy. Your friend Bruce,
though he is very clever, and I am sure a
most well-meaning person, is an enthusiast,
and will never be successful. Success in
life means ordinary capacities, with an extraordinary
power of using them. Now,
Bruce theorizes splendidly, but in practice
his scruples will always impede any real
progress. He will never trample on the
weak, and to do much good you must be
capable of doing a little evil''
^ Between such contradictory exhortations
Dick performed his canvassing, and attained
at last to a very fair measure of the golden
mean. He promised easily enough, knowing
that it was not in his power to perform, but,
judging that hope is a great factor in happiness
; he listened to grievances cum grants
and felt that there was a great deal to be

said on both sides. He raged against his
opponents, comforting his conscience by the
knowledge that they raged against him, and
he thus secured a hearty following and
appreciative audiences. Sir Hilary Fen-church,
on his part, had wasted no time ; he
was of a good old stock, a sportsman, a
generous landlord, and a tried man of business.
Lady Fenchurch's fair face, though
she said little, and only smiled sweetly, had
been of considerable assistance in his visits
to farmers' wives, who were supposed to
influence their husbands, and he spoke in a
fluent, careful fashion, with a sense of conviction
and a mode of placing further appeal
out of the question, that carried away his
hearers. The fight promised to be a close
one. Every nerve was strained by rival
agents ; every argument used by the respective
candidates. The instant one announced
a full and enthusiastic meeting, the other
followed suit by holding a monster gathering
of the electors ; did one hoist a squib or a
cartoon, the other immediately invented
something more sharp and stinging.

Hitherto, however, these attacks, though
rude and personal, had attained but little

importance, for Sir Hilary was a gentleman
above reproach, and Dick was a young and
untried man. It was hard to get hold of
truth or satire that would really wound and
rankle in them. Dick began to feel happy;
the sense of power gratified him, and existence
at Highview was the most luxurious
possible. Not a trifling or a fashionable
caprice but could there be immediately
gratified ; the hothouses were regal, whenever
he wished it a gardenia adorned his
buttonhole, while mountains of pines and
grapes made their appearance every day at
dessert ; horses and carriages existed in profusion,
and even a quiet library was set apart .
for Bruce's good pleasure. To the latter the
place seemed a kind of Capua, whose charms
would entice the strongest ; each days he declared
he must really return to his work and
his London lodging, and each day Dick
prevailed upon him to grant further delay.

Julian consented easily enough, for when
he was not engaged canvassing no one
troubled their head about him, and he was
as much buried among his books as in his
own home. Towards dusk he might be meta
tall figure in flap hat and grey overcoat,

striding along with head bent down and
hands clasped behind his back. Asked what
he had seen when on one of these rapid
pedestrian tours he would answer nothing."
How nothing ? Then Julian confessed that
he believed it was a cold day or a bright
day, but that really he could not be sure,
nor remember where he had walked (he
usually took the same constitutional, two
miles out and two miles in along the turnpike
road), for he had been busy running
over in his mind some arguments in favour
of socialism, or grappling with an abstruse
question of feudal law. Once Luce took
him out for a walk ; she showed him her
favourite flowers, and pointed out some
lovely tints of the late autumnal foliage, and
the effect of chequered gleams of sunshine
under the avenue trees. He opened his mild
eyes, and looked where he was desired, and
said it ' ' was very pretty, indeed quite remarkable,
an optic illusion he supposed,"
until Luce burst out laughing, and, seeing
his meditative gaze fixed upon her face,
said, '^ I suppose you don't know the difference
between a woman and the Elgin
marbles, or the muddy London streets and a

cowslip meadow, Mr. Bruce, if you always
wander about with your eyes shut."

'^ Excuse me. Miss Windermere, I am
afraid I have been rude ; but the fact is I
have never yet had time to observe the
beauties of nature, and Greek manuscripts
have injured my sight. When I was at
Cambridge I only walked from necessity,
and generally with a book in my hand ;
some day when I have leisure I must do a
course of sunsets."

'' And sunrises ; it will be so good for
your health."

Bruce considered Luce a very agreeable
young lady, a fact which he gave her to,
understand in some clumsy Homeric fashion ;
nineteenth-century young ladies not having
yet come within the orbit of his vision, and
his mother, a prim be capped widow, being the
latest manifestation of womanhood to which
he had bent his attention. Yet, as has been
said, he owned a kind of distant ideal cult
for women, and in his heart treasured the
notion that some day, when he had leisure,
he should taste love ; but the period at
which he would allow himself such an epicurean
excess was hid in a far-off distant

VOL. I. P

future. Meanwhile, he was content with
books. Lady Eleanor honestly despised
him ; he was not a man, but a mole, she
declared ; and, as for being young and a eon-temporary
of Dick's, she believed him rather
to be a dug-up centenarian, a kind of resuscitated
toad-in-the-hole. She tolerated him on
Dick's account and because he was quiet and
inoffensive, but declined taking any trouble
about him or casting him a thought, except
when she saw a mark of muddy boots on the
carpet, or discovered a trace of cigar-ash on
the library table-cloth, and his presence obtruded
itself on her mind. Maud had at first
set her cap at him, as she did at all men, but
finding that he never looked at her, and only
responded to her advances by a few precise
speeches, she soon gave him up as ineligible,
and he was left to solitude and the tender
mercies of kind-hearted Luce, who liked him
for many reasons. First, because he was shy
and quiet ; next, because he was poor and
unpopular; and thirdly, because he was
Dick's friend; the latter, the most potent
reason of all. The days slipped by and
Christmas was approaching. Dick intended
to spend it at his grandmother's, and Bruce

among his books in London. The moment
of parting, to which Luce looked forward
with silent terror, rapidly approached. Dick
was kind and friendly and cool as usual ; he
had not said one word that would lead her
to think he cared for her, but he had promised
her an invitation to Long Learn, and
on that anticipation she now lived. The
day before his departure was wild and
snowy. '^ Seasonable weather' as some
stout elderly people are fond of remarking ;
'' shrivelling weather," as Luce said, who
was of a chilly constitution. Dick had returned,
cold and miserable, from a dive in
the dog-cart, along the slippery snow-covered
roads, and was gone to his room to
change his wet clothes. Maud in the bile
practised difficult strokes by herself;
Lady Eleanor and Mrs. Hardfast were
closeted in the latter's boudoir and the
morning-room was empty, save for Luce,
who, curled up by the fire, sat gazing into
the red embers. The last month had been
the happiest of her life, and now it was over,
gone like everything else, a mere shred of
time, ragged and unfinished. Nature, heedless
in her impassive calm, leaves much

p 2

unfinished work, patches here, and rents
there, and hearts torn as inter, and loves
parted, and hopes raised bat to be dashed
to pieces. What becomes of all the unfinished
lives, of those who have missed their
meaning, of those who die young, standing
crowned with flowers, gay and confident on
the threshold of existence, of the mother
love rudely snapped with the frail baby's
wasting breath, of the genius whose unfolded
wings, soaring to heaven, wax feeble and
sink into the jaws of death, of the songs
unsung, and the loves unloved, and all the
mystery and pain of earth ? Are they lived
again, or does the book close at the turned-down
page, just as the interest is most keen,
the picture most vivid ?

Luce sat and wondered. Presently the
door opened and Bruce stole in, absent,
gentle, noiseless as usual.

^' I am alone," said Luce, in a low voice,
from the fireplace, '^ I don't know where all
the others have gone to."

'' What a bright fire ! " said Bruce warming
his thin white hands at the blaze. ^'The
fire worshippers were not far wrong, for

warmth is the medicine, if not the source,
of life, and the best gift of the gods."

'eyes, I feel that too in the sunshine, how
glorious it is ! sometimes the mere exhilaration
it gives becomes pleasure."

'you are sensitive," said Bruce, seating
himself ; ^Hhat is a dangerous temperament."

'^ We cannot help our temperament, can
we?" asked Luce, with a tiny laugh. ^' Don't
you think the paper on the nursery walls, or
the songs with which our nurses hush us to
sleep, are answerable for a good deal ? "

^^No doubt. Early association is far more
important than any one supposes, but the
philosophical mind endeavours to rise superior
to temperament."

^' Women are not superior beings, so I
suppose that does not apply to us," she said.

^' In some measure of course it does. Weare
all free beings."

''■ Are we ? I often doubt it. Who is free ?
You are, perhaps, and Mr. Carrol, but I
am not free."

*' You can preserve your own individuality.
That is every one's duty."

'' I suppose it is," Luce sighed.

'' Of course we are influenced because weare

human beings, but so long as we do not
merge our ego we are safe."

^^ Do you call being in love merging one's
individuality ? " asked Luce, shading her
eyes from the fire, which vividly lighted up
Bruce's long earnest face.

^'No, for love is right and natural; we love
the good qualities of another, we need not
adopt his bad ones ; we have strength to see
where the right course lies and to pursue our
better judgment, even though we love."

^^ I think if I loved I should be weak."

^^ I am sure you would not, for you have
a great deal of character. That yielding up
one's convictions is weakness, not love. All
this applies to friendship as well, for where
there is no respect there can be no friendship."


'^ You respect Mr. Carrol," she asked.

'^ Of course, or he would not be my
friend'

^^You are a stoic, Mr. Bruce; I could
never be so strong as that."

Julian smiled.

^ ^ I think I set a right value on friendship,
that is all. I could not lie or steal or cheat
to oblige my dearest friend."

^^ But you would stand by him, even if he
did some of these things ? "

'^ I really cannot tell, I don't think so,
but I trust my friends are not of that sort."

^' Mr. Carrol is not."

''No, he is a real good fellow. There is
plenty of stuff in him, you will see, it is sure
to come out some day. I only hope he will
marry well, for he is very susceptible to
female influence''

'' Yes, of course, we must hope he will
marry well." As Luce, the serious circumspect
air sitting quaintly on her young face,
said these words with the gravity of an
elderly matron discussing the prospects of
her child, she had no idea of herself as a
possible wife for Dick, nor did she for an
instant suppose that Bruce meant anything
by his remarks. These two were so unworldly
that they could meet serenely on
their own level, a level different to that
of poor average humanity, though perhaps
to some, such absence of guilelessness might
have seemed the level of folly.

'^ Marriage will be the making of him,"
repeated Bruce, slowly rubbing his hands,
'' and he is worth a good woman's love."

Luce said nothing ; she enjoyed the quiet
and the luxurious sense of ease and warmth,
as she listened to the praises of the man she
loved, doled out in Bruce's slow measured
tones. The slowness of the tones seemed
to give greater weight to the praises. The
candles had not yet been brought in ; shadows
fell around, and a sense of darkness and
mystery haunted the furthest corners of the
room ; but in the cosy ingle under the recessed
marble chimney-piece, rosy with the
leaping reflections of the firelight, it was
warm, and bright, and cheerful. Dick found
them thus when, a few moments later, dry,
and clothed, he entered the room. ^^ What,
sitting in the dark ? " he said in his bright
manly voice.

'' The twilight is so pleasant," urged
Luce, in extenuation of her idleness.

'^ And for a wonder you are not reading,
Julian."

** No. Miss Windermere has entertained
me agreeably."

That is a great compliment for ?sow," said
Dick turning to Luce; ^' the most beautiful
woman in creation would not keep him a

moment if she were not agreeable and could
not talk."

Luce blushed a little, but in the dim, rosy
glow her blush was not observed.

^' I have a letter from Granny," continued
Dick, " and she tells me she has written to
your uncle and aunt asking them to come
with you and spend Christmas at Long Leam,
or to spare you if they cannot leave home
themselves.

*^ How delightful ! I do hope it can be
managed."

'^ It must be managed. Use all your
diplomacy, Miss Luce, for 1 ^Dant you to
come." •

I shall try my very best. How kind of
Mrs. Carrol to ask me."

I have told her so much. She is interested
in you, and she likes young people."

And I shall loire her I am sure ! " cried
Luce, springing up with sudden energy as
the footman entered, bearing the lamps.

CHAPTER XVI.

Lady Eleanor sent a civil excuse for herself
to Mrs. Carrol, but Mr. Higliview and
his niece eagerly accepted the invitation.
He remained the appointed time, at the
end of which Mrs. Carrol begged him to
confide Luce to her charge, and the girl,
with anxious appeal in her eyes, pleaded
hard for permission. Lady Eleanor, whom
her husband consulted by telegram, graciously
gave consent, and thus Luce became
one of the family party at Long Leam. On
her arrival Mrs. Carrol greeted her with
out-stretched hands, and a cordial kiss,
showed her into a bright little nest of
chintz and white panelled walls, told her
to make herself at home, and that she was
glad to see her. The old lady's manner
was so simple and so genuine that Luce,

who usually fled from strangers, was attracted
at once.

^^ Would you like your tea here'' said
the old lady, lighting two more candles on
the dressing-table, " or will you come downstairs
? Do just as you like."

'' I should like to come down'' said Luce
to whom kind consideration for her individual
fancies was an unknown luxury.
At dinner she sat next Dick, who was in
unusually high spirits, and entertained her
with a number of funny anecdotes about
his dogs. And afterwards, she sang to Mrs.
Carrol, in the large, dimly-lighted drawing-room.
Luce had a pretty little voice, with
a note of feeling and acute sensitiveness in
it that occasionally proved unmanageable
in the cold decorum of post-prandial singing,
but, alone with old Mrs. Carrol (Mrs.
Vincent having retired to look after some
of her numerous brood of children), she
sang unconcernedly to her heart's content;
sweet simple vols-lieder, of which her German
governess had taught her at least a
score, or old English ballads with a sad unfinished
refrain. Mrs Carrol dropped her
knitting as the girl's voice sounded clear

and pathetic, the high notes a little voices
through the spacious chamber ; she bent
her head, and old-world dreams came to her.
She saw herself again a merry girl in short-waisted
muslin gown, her hair crowned by
a large straw hat, and a circle of beaux
round her whispering their prim and ceremonious
addresses. How long ago it seemed,
how very long, and yet her heart still felt
quite young and fresh.

^' Do you like that, Mrs. Carrol ? " Luce's
young voice asked from the piano.

^^Ah, my dear, come here*' The girl
approached, and drawing a footstool near,
sat at the old lady's feet.

^' Give me your hand ; you have caused
me so much pleasure." She wiped away a
tear with her thin cambric handkerchief
as she said this. ^^You made me young
again. Where did you learn that way of
touching people ? My grand-daughters sing,
but they do not make me cry. See, I am
quite a silly old woman."

Luce drew down the slim and somewhat
shrunken white hand, on which the antique
diamonds and amethysts glittered brightly
and kissed it.

T

''' I am so glad ! " she gently sighed.

It is good of you to amuse an old womanlike
me'' said Granny.

'^ It was good of you to let me come."

^' But we are dull people here," said
Granny, looking very closely into Luce's
face.

I do not find it dull."

^'What, not away from your own home,
your aunt, all sour pleasures ? "

^' My aunt does not care for my society."

^^ But she loves you ? "

^' I don't know. Yes, I suppose she
does," said Luce, burying her face in Mrs.
Carrol's pale lilac brocade.

''J love you, child," said Granny, gently.
And then the two women, the old one and
the young one, kissed each other, silently ;
and Luce felt that love had come into her
life. This love at least would never disappoint
her ; it was so different from the
violent friendships, their briefness measured
by their violence, she had seen in the world
of fashion ; and then, Luce reflected with infinite
pleasure, they would at least have one
surpassing interest in common — Dick's welfare.
For Luce, once admitted into the

grandmother's heart, became a sharer of
her hopes and fears — planned, thought, and
worked for Dick as Granny did. She could
talk of him to her heart's content, for
Granny loved him better than anything
else in the world, and was never tired of
discussing his affairs. She spoke seldom of
her late husband or of her eldest son ; all the
concentrated love of years seemed poured
out upon this young man, who, though
neither his grandmother nor Luce confessed
it, was but a very ordinary piece of humanity
after all.

'^ When Dick is in Parliament he must
marry'' planned the grandmother.

^^ Oh, yes," echoed Luce, '^ a good wife
will be the making of him. And then he is
worthy of a good woman's love," she added,
remembering the words of his friend Bruce.

'^I am so afraid of the present young
ladies — I don't mind telling you this Luce,
because you are not a bit like them— but I
dread his bringing home a fine fashionable
woman who would sneer at everything and
make him miserable, for he has right feeling,
the dear boy."

Then Luce, thinking of Maud, agreed.

How terrible worldly cynicism coming from
such rosy lips would^seem to simple Granny.
And one day when Luce had been singing her
best, Granny took both her hands, and
holding her at arm's length, after a prolonged
look at her irregular features and the
soft intelligent eyes, said, ^' My dear, I wish
Dick would ask i/ou to be his wife."

^' Oh, dear Mrs. Carrol, don't say such
things ; indeed, indeed, I am not good
enough. I am so plain you know."

I don't think you plain, child ; your eyes
are wonderful, and you have such a sweet
voice ; and somehow, I am sure when you
love you will love rightly, for remember,
Luce, marriage without love is misery.'^^

Luce bowed her head, and went to her
room with a slow and chastened step.

Love — yes, indeed, she could love well,
there need be no fear of that ; she had not
squandered her treasure and cast it at haphazard
right and left upon the waters ; it
was all there, pure and priceless, waiting to be
thrown into the lap of him she loved. She
would never change, she was sure of that, she
had been starved too long ; her hunger once
appeased, it would be for ever. And then she

said to herself that her hopes were always
dashed, and that the ideal never became reality,
and that she must drive such thoughts
from her mind.

Mrs. Vincent observed Granny's infatuation
for Luce with increasing displeasure.

Luce mistrusted her, and involuntarily
showed it, but Mrs. Vincent was more thana
match for her, and determined upon the
expulsion of the intruder.

The little minx ! what does she mean by
coming here and making up to Granny in
that disgusting way' she remarked on one
occasion to her husband.

'• She will have money some day, I expect,"
stolidly said Vincent, who just now felt considerable
embarrassment from the want of
some ready cash, and meditated asking Dick
to lend him a little ; ^' it would not be half
a bad thing for Dick."

'' Dick ! " almost screamed Mrs. Vincent.
^' Is everything to be for him then. I wonder
you are not ashamed of the way you try, on
all occasions, to take the bread out of your
children's mouths."

'' Well, they are not likely to marry Miss
Luce, at any rate; Witty is only just gone

to college, and you know he is awkward and
has red hair, and Tom is at school. I don't
think she would look at either of they

' That's right, abuse your family ; I am
accustomed to it. But what I do know is,
that that girl, with her pale face ad her
quiet ways, is a schemer. I have noticed her
carefully. Why need she be always picking
up the stitches in Granny's knitting, and
singing those mawkish songs to her, and
cooing over her like a hoarse wood-pigeon,
and listening to all she says as if it were the
gospel? I know what old people are; you
have only got to flatter them and they believe
it all."

'^ Why don't you do it then, Maria ? You
make good use of grannie, but you never put
yourself out to say a civil word to her."

''I can't be a humbug," said Maria, sharply.
'^As dear Mr. Supple observed the other day
in his sermon, we must not pander to unchristian
desires. I caught Luce yawning
over the delightful volume of sermons 1 was
reading aloud the other night, but she never
yawns when she reads that interminable
poetry to Granny."

VOL. I. Q

^' You should have brought up your girls
to read poetry then'"

'' I'll trouble you to leave my girls alone,
poor darlings ; they are not hypocrites."

'^ Well, settle it your own way. I think
Luce a very nice girl, unaffected and civil,
which is more than most modern minxes
are, and she can ride'' Therewith uncle
Vincent departed to the stables to try and
find Dick, with whom he desired a serious
consultation. Things had not gone quite so
well as he wished. The mare lamed herself
one night in her box, and her work was
stopped in consequence. This had thrown
her out and made her go back in the betting,
added to which there were ugly rumours
about a dark horse, which had been kept
specially for the Liverpool, and of whom
the owners entertained sanguine anticipations.
He found Dick smoking in the
stables as he had expected, amusing himself
with a couple of terriers, who were springing
up and barking to their hearts' content,
while the bay horse in the stable looked
round in silent wonder and contempt.

The mare has been lame," blurted out

uncle Vincent, gloomily, when he approached.


*what! Fairy Queen'' said Dick,
stooping to feel the horse's legs.

^^Yes, and it's the devil!" Uncle Vincent
put his hands in his pockets and stared at
the neat straw plaiting that edged the stall.

^^ I suppose she's all right again?" said
Dick, sticking his pipe more firmly in the
side of his mouth.

'' Oh ! yes, she's right again, but "

^' But what ? Did you get all the money
on ? "

'^ Yes, but there's no chance of hedging at
present, and I've laid against the favourite.
If we shouldn't win "

'' I thought you said we should win ? ''
said Dick, less absently, straightening himself.


'^ Of course I expect we shall, but just
now I'm a good deal pressed — you couldn't
lend me something, just for a month or two?"

I haven't a mag, myself, and I cannot
think of asking Granny again."

'' And there are the training bills," added
uncle Vincent in a sepulchral tone.

'' Hang it ! I wish I had never listened to

Q 2

you at all. It is much better fun betting on
other people's horses than keeping them
oneself, with all the confounded worries they
entail upon you."

'^ If you don't want a share of the mare
you can say so, I'll let you off, only I can't
pay you for a bit."

^' I don't mind ; the mare seems a good
thing. You have not told any one I am part
owner, have you ? for I don't want Granny
to hear of it."

'ras it happens, you are entire owner just
now," grinned uncle Vincent, '^ for you
advanced the money, and wrote me a line to
that effect, which letter I kept — for business
is business, you know."

'' Well, if I think things look ugly I shall
find a purchaser for the mare, that's all,"
said Dick, airily, turning away to the loose
box, where the grey, who knew his voice,
gently honeyed him a welcome. Uncle
Vincent was only half satisfied. Dick was
too indifferent to go heart and soul into
the business, and too sharp) to be made a
thorough tool of. Had he not been so, uncle
Vincent would have entertained no scruples
on the score of relationship. He despised

people who dealt in false delicacy : ^' the
world is made for us all'' he would say,
^' and each man has a right to get the best
place he can in it.-' He and his wife were
thoroughly agreed in their worship of self,
but she carried it into the petty details of castoff
dresses, filching of grocery, or implied
dishonesty in letting Granny pay the bills
she herself had incurred ; while uncle Vincent
dealt with things in a broader and mor
manly spirit ; in common parlance he was a
sharp, could tinker up a screw, or sell an unsound
or vicious horse for a sound one, and
cheat a friend out of a sixpence, but he was
no humbug. His very bluffness and heartiness
caused Dick to bear him a grudging
goodwill, and his companions to speak of
him as ^^ a capital fellow." Nevertheless, if
he could have seen his way towards jockeying
Dick he would have done so with pleasure
and chuckled over his own cleverness.
It was infernally hard upon a fellow, he
reflected, to be as it were dependent upon
a boy like Dick, and forced to come cringing
to him for a few driblets of the money which
ought by rights to have been his. He had
a grudge against fate. When his elder

brother died, the baby had no business to
live, and grow up to plague deserving
people with its health and strength, and
prove a thorn in their side.

CHAPTER XVII.

Luce had formed a habit of taking long and
solitary walks. She was fond of exercise, and
Granny insisted on her going out every afternoon.
At first Luce demurred, saying she
would prefer to drive with Granny or accompany
her up and down the terrace, should
she feel inclined to stroll. But Granny was*
firm. ^^It is too cold to drive," she said,
'^ and if I want to walk Mrs. Vincent will
give me an arm ; but you are young, and
you must run and step out and. spring
along as becomes your age." Luce obeyed.
Granny's gentle exhortations, firm and mild
as they were, had a different ring from Lady
Eleanor's cold formulas. To walk for one's
complexion, to prevent oneself looking sallow,
seemed the direct converse to walking
for one's pleasure in clear frosty air, tinged
with exhilarating freshness.

Luce was returning one afternoon from
an expedition to a distant common, where
the low thorn-trees formed in summer a
favourite resort for the nightingales. She was
accompanied by Vic, the terrier, who had
taken a violent fancy to her, and was stepping
along quickly, notwithstanding her previous
long walk. Behind her the sun, an incandescent
ball, rested in a blood-red sheet of
flame, which filled the horizon with a lurid
glare, and threw a mantle of roseate hues
over the bare branches of the distant trees ;
beyond, the sky was of a pure steely blue,
in which a few stars twinkled ; above, the
crescent moon gleamed coldly. The air was
calm ; but to stand still, even for an instant,
became unpleasant and chilling to the blood.
Luce hurried on ; it was getting late. Turning
a corner she came up at right angles
with a man who was getting over a stile
out of a stubble field. A dog accompanied
him, whom Vic, running forward, saluted
joyously, presently rubbing herself up
against his owner's legs, and thereby acknowledging
her master.

^* Miss Windermere!" said he, stopping

to shift his gun on to the other shoulder,
*^ how late you are ; where have you been ?"

^^ To Thornham Common," she answered.

*^ That is a long walk. I did not know
you were a great pedestrian. I thought you
were only a drawing-room young lady'*
said Dick with a laugh.

'^ This is not much of a walk, but I have
the use of my limbs, I am happy to say."

'^ And you don't mind walking alone."

'^I am accustomed to it' she answered
briefly.

Dick accommodated his long stride to
hers, and quite naturally prepared to walk
home with her. For the first time they were <
alone together.

Their conversation, confidential as it had
sometimes been, was always carried on in
company, for the careless buzz of a drawing-room
confers almost as great privacy as can
be obtained on a lonely mountain-side. She
and Dick were accustomed to society, and
knew how to make the most of their advantages.
But this solitary walk with the
ruddy sunset, and the heavenly glow upon
the silent earth ; the chill landscape, devoid
of all animal life ; the strangeness, mingled

with the sense of comfort that came over
her, — was a new experience. Eor a while
she remained silent, commonplaces seemed
foolish and unreal. Dick was silent, too ;
then, as they passed a small plantation, " To
heel. Rover!" he cried, sho heel; that brute
of a dog is after a rabbit." This little incident,
which occupied a few moments before
the refractory dog, — who had ranged around
rejoicing in the new-found experience of
mischief, followed by Vic, to whom the
temptation proved likewise overwhelming
(for dogs, like men, easily copy a bad example),
— had been chastised, reproved, and
once more reduced to orderly behaviour,
broke the ice, and dispelled the strangeness
which had arrested Luce's tongue.

'' I'm so very glad you and Granny get
on," said Dick, whose observation of domestic
affairs was tolerably keen; 'rit is a great
pleasure to her to have your company."

*'No one could help loving her," said
Luce, warmly, '' she is as good as you said,
only still more perfect."

^' I don't like perfection myself as a rule,"
observed the young man, "it's generally so
deuced disagreeable, but I must say Granny

is kindness itself. I often feel sorry to see
how shamefully uncle Vincent and his wife
trade upon her kindness." Dick omitted to
state that he had frequently done the same,
and the slight return he had offered her.

^' She is devoted to you," said Luce ; '^ she
would like to have you always with her."

^' Well, that is not possible," laughed the
young man.

*^ But now, when you are in Parliament,
your duties to your constituents will bring
you here oftener."

'^ Oh, yes, I suppose they may; but you
know, however fond I am of Granny, Long
Leam is but a dull hole ; I'm not master <
here ; I can't do a thing, and my uncle and
aunt are almost always about poking their
noses everywhere and interfering. Since
you came it has been different ; you understand
me, and you're young."

^^ Yes, I am young," answered Luce,
feeling grateful for this bond of sympathy
between them.

^' And there is no nonsense about you —
you are not vain like Maud, nor a prude like
aunt Vincent."

Luce was silent — she could not appraise
herself.

^^ Some day you will marry," she said
softly, ^' and then you will not be lonely."

'marry — no, I shan't marry!" he said
quickly.

Luce threw him a curious glance.

''I mean, I don't think I shall ever care
for any woman enough to marry her "

Oh, Mr. Carrol, I am sure you wilL"

'' That is to say — I don't mind telling you,
Luce (let me call you Luce, it is less stiff) —
I have loved, I did love once — some one —
very dearly indeed."

'rand she died?" asked Luce, in a low
sympathetic voice.

No, she is married ! "

Then she did not care ? "

To tell you the truth T do not know. I
thought, I believed she did. I was mad and
reckless and foolish, but she kept her head
and married."

Poor Dick ! " sighed Luce.

I felt it, I can tell you; that was what
made me take to politics, just to crush the
pain. What did I say, that I would never
marry ? Of course I shall marry any one
grannie likes ; it is nothing to me now I
can't have hers and that is all over."

At that instant the fiery glow faded out of
the sky, the sun dropped, and with it gloom
and darkness shrouded everything. Luce
felt as though the light had gone out of her
life. Dick could never love again.

^^ Why is not everyone like you, Luce?
Why are there hard things, and cruel things,
and selfish people in the world ? You have
a kind heart, I know ; you pity me."

*^ Yes, I pity you," said Luce, putting her
little hand gently on his arm. '^ I know
what it is not to be loved "

^'It is not only that, but to feel that she
belongs to another. God ! I can't bear even
to think of it," and he clenched his hand,
violently.

^' It is very bad, I know'' said Luce,
soothingly.

They walked a little way in silence.
Then he said, stopping suddenly to look at
her :

^' What a strange girl you are, Luce. I
do believe you care what happens to me,
and yet you listen sweetly to what would
make some women mad. They cannot bear
to hear another praised."

'' I suppose she was very beautiful' said
Luce, calmly.

^^ Yes, she was beautiful — to my mind the
most beautiful creature I ever saw, but what
of that — her beauty did not keep her true —
Ah ! if she had only been like you — I know
you are true''

'^ Thank you," said Luce, simply.

^^ I shall never forget her ; of course it has
altered my whole life, but I shall try to
make the best of things."

^' You have great scope."

'^ Do you know. Luce, perhaps Granny
was right. I ought to marry — the sense
that I was bound to another woman would
prevent any vain barking back — make the
breach irrevocable — I do so fear being weak
again; that woman has bewitched me, I
believe."

'^ It would not be fair to marry while you
feel like that," said Luce, decisively.

^'I would be good to my wife, I would
study her wishes, she should have the best
of everything."

Except love."

'say rather except passion — I should
love her in a different way."

They had reached the gates of ling Learn
and turned into the avenue; the dogs ran
on in front joyfully sniffing and smelling
about ; the moon threw silvery gleams of
light across the road, and Luce's face looked
almost ghastly in its pallor. In another
instant they would part indifferently, and a
conversation so strange, so intimate, never
be renewed. Luce made an effort.

^^ Thank you for telling me," she said;
'^ I am so sorry you have suffered."

It sours a man," he said, gloomily, kicking
away with his boot a little mound of
gravel ; '^ but I suppose it happens to everyone."
And then they mounted the steps and <
rang the bell, and went into the firelight and
cosiness, where Granny waited with the tea.
'what a little ghost you look!" said
Granny, kindly, as she patted Luce's cold
cheeks.

** These roads are not safe for girls to be
out after dark," remarked Mrs. Vincent,
sharply, looking up from her knitting ; ^' but
then, to be sure, you had an escort. Pray,
Dick, did you go out with Miss Luce, or
meet her by appointment ? "

'' 1 fell in with her accidentally, and was

exceedingly surprise to see her, wasn't I ? ''
said Dick, addressing Luce, and pouring himself
out a cup of strong black tea.

^^ Why don't you ask one of my girls to
go with you ? " said Mrs. Vincent, severely,
to Luce; '^I am sure it would be much better
than traversing about the country alone like
a gipsy. You will be robbed and murdered
some day."

^'I am not worth robbing," said Luce,
with a faint smile.

Thieves can not know that ; by the time
they have found it out you will be knocked
down and battered about in the mud''

there's a pleasant look-out for you,"
said Dick, cheerfully. ^^ Aunt Vincent certainly
has the most depressing ideas."

I am not a fool," said Mrs. Vincent,
with a fresh accent of dignity.

^' Heaven defend me from accusing you of
such a thing ; you are sharp enough for me."

The little sparring-matches which went on
between Dick and his aunt amused him
while they angered her, and served the
present purpose of distracting her attention
from Luce, to whom her stabs gave evident
pain. The latter threw Dick a grateful look,

and stole nearer to Granny, in whose love
was to be found honourable shelter.

That evening grannie played on the piano
quaint sparkling gavottes and slow graceful
minuets, and rippling fugues, stiff antiquated
music often in the minor mode, set
in its simple chords and perfect cadences.
She characterized modern music as froth and
slim-flams, abhorring with all the righteous
horror of her soul the glaring discords and
meaningless changes and artificial harmonies
which make up a great share of its composition.
Luce sat by the fire listening. As
Granny's thin fingers glided gently over the
keys — with a delicacy and precision wanting
to many brilliant performers — the tightness at
her heart relaxed, the keen pain she was
enduring grew more tolerable, a gentle pity
took the place of wounded love. Who was
she, what was she, to exact more than could
be given her ? Trust, confidence, affection
she had all these — and yet she wanted
more ; her hungry heart cried out for
nourishment for the strong satisfying meat
of love, and not the phantom food of friendship.
Granny's life neared its close ; those
agile fingers must soon relax their grip, and

VOL. I. R

fall nerveless by her side ; the warm heart
cease to beat, the eye gloss over with the
film of death. What had she received, what
happiness gilt her declining years, what
prudent careful hand guided her steps, and
given back love for love ? None that Luce
could see, yet Granny was serenely, beautifully
happy. '^ It will come, I suppose, intime
; when I am old I shall be happy," she
thought, and rose to light Granny's candle.
Usually Luce lingered a while in Granny's
bedroom chatting or reading her to sleep ;
to-night the old lady dismissed her quickly''

Go, dear," she said, '^ you look tired ; I
am a selfish old woman to keep you — go,
rest well ; God bless you, my own dear
child."

Granny folded her in her arms, and
the withered cheek held a sweetness for
Luce of which the peach-blossom skin of
Lady Eleanor owned no suspicion. The
one is human flesh, she thought, the other
pearl-powder and cold cream. Luce waited
till old Jane the maid appeared, carefully
extinguishing her dip in the doorway as she
entered, and proceeded to remove Granny's
pretty cap, and let the flowing grey hair

about her shoulders. Luce was never tired
of admiring the old lady as she sat there,
patiently submitting to the maid's ministrations.


'^ When I am old my hair will be grey
too, and I shall be glad to be like you,
Granny," she said playfully, as she retired.
Luce had to traverse the whole length of the
broad corridor before arriving at her own
room, and, as she did so this evening, through
the swing-door at the end hurriedly burst
Dick, in smoking-jacket and slippers.

'^ Is that you, have you left Granny — I
wanted to speak to her ? "

'^ She is going to bed. She dismissed m^
early ; I think you had better not disturb
her — it might interfere with her night's
rest."

Then I will not. Luce, stay a moment;
you cannot be tired." He took the candle
gently from her hand, and put it on an old
Italian chest that stood near. " Let me ask
you a question. Do you remember our conversation
of this afternoon ? "

^' Yes," faltered Luce, scared at this
opening.

^' Well, I told you my story. I was

honest, at least ; many a man might not
have confessed. I told you I must marry,
Granny wishes it. She urged me again this
evening. I cannot love as I have done, you
know, but my wife will be very dear to me ;
can you — will you be that wife ? "

Luce shrank away ; she covered her face
with her hands.

^^ Don't shrink from me, dear. I tell you
sincerely I never met a woman so true, so
kindly, as yourself ; we should not quarrel
I am sure. I can give you a nice home and
comfort, and you love Granny —

I could not make you happy

Oh, yes, I am easily pleased ; you suit
me ; we have the same tastes ; I shall
grow very fond of you, my little gentle

mouse "

^' No, no ! " faltered Luce.

^'You need not be afraid; 1 will not
neglect you or be cruel to you. I shall love
you as a dear sister, companion, friend,
truly, lastingly. Passion is not happiness,
I am sure of that now ; besides, you are
too young for passion ; you must never
know it— I am not a bad fellow, really "

He did not love her, yet he offered to

marry her she thought. He had treated her
fairly and honourably ; would any woman
ask more or refuse him, who loved as Luce
did with every fibre of her heart. She
would force love from him, she felt ; would
show him that she was not too young for
passion (the very idea made her laugh).
Some women might be too proud, might talk
of self-respect, but where was the self-respect
when one loved madly and unreasonably ?
lie would be hers, to love, to caress, to
dream of, to scheme for, her life could she
part from her life ?

'^ Don't be startled, dear; it seems sudden,
perhaps, to you, but not to me ; ever since J
have known you and watched your sweet
unselfish ways, I felt you were the .woman
for me, and Granny thinks so too."

The family, then, had sat in conclave on
her merits, had approved of her like a prize
ox or a show cauliflower.

"You will understand me, you will be
lenient to my faults — I am full of faults."

'' Ah, how you speak ! " cried the girl,
lashed by the violence of her feelings into
speech. "Do you think I have none? Do
you think I am made of marble ? Do you

think I can bear to hear you ask me to marry
you and in the same breath confess you do not
love me ? Am I not human ? Am I not a
woman? Do I not love you ? " The last
words escaped in a sob, as Luce threw herself
upon a chair and laid her burning face
against its back.

Luce, darling, do you love me ; ah, I
never hoped for this ; I thought it would bea
reasonable, a commonplace marriage — but
love "

'^ Why do you talk of love ? Haven't you
said already there is to be none between
us?"

^^ The case is altered — you must make
me love you, little one, you women are so
clever."

Luce shook her head. " I am not clever
enough for that.^^

^^ But a companion. Luce, a friend; a
woman to whom one can tell everything ;
who has no petty jealousies, no envious
thoughts ; where could I find such another ? —
you are priceless. Luce, unique in your sex''

'^ Perhaps I shall be jealous," said Luce,
slowly, '' If I love you "

^' I will take the risk, little one," he said,

wrapping her in his arms, while his silky
moustache rested on her lips. The first kiss!
More suffering than bliss was contained in
it. It had an acrid taste of sub-acute pain
mixed with the pleasure, for she was not his
really, but his only on sufferance, his by pressure
of lips rather than gift of heart ; his wife,
his betrothed, but not the woman in the world
for him ! And yet, as she lay in his arms,
despising herself for her weakness, conscious
of all she was surrendering, of her young
life dedicated, her body given, her soul a
slave, she felt she could do no otherwise,
and yielding, faintly murmured with a sigh
of content, ^' Mine, mine ! " •

CHAPTER XVIII.

As from some wonderful dream Luce awoke
the next morning", asking herself if it was
true. The midnight interview in the corridors,
the words spoken in the silence and
shadow of night, the long-drawn kiss, the
moment of passion she had experienced, rose
to her mind, painted in glowing mystical
colours. What had she done? — betrayed her
maidenly modesty, given her promise to a
man who did not love her. Oh, it was weak,
execrably weak, and yet she felt, did the
temptation return, she must succumb to it
once more. She lingered over her toilet,
she died not, with the guilty blush of
shame upon her cheek, face Mrs. Vincent
and her coldly cruel eyes and plausible stinging
advice. The breakfast-bell rang, but
she did not stir ; presently there came a tap

at her door, ^'Was Miss 'Windermere ill,
would she like her breakfast upstairs ? "
^' Oh no, no ! " cried poor Luce, feeling that
she must take the awful plunge. In the
dining-room, over the remains of breakfast,
sat Mrs. Vincent, her husband, and Granny.
Dick's place was empty, but Luce divined
that he had finished his meal. At least then
she need not dread his eyes. How would
he look, had he repented already, was it only
a heated fancy, born and bred of night,
would he seem cold and distant, perhaps tell
her it was all a mistake ? Luce approached
the table slowly.

become here, dear," said grannie, holding
out her hand, ^' sit by me. Have you slept
well ? "

^' You went to bed early enough, said
Mrs. Vincent, sharply, though I believe
you amused yourself walking about afterwards,
for I heard steps and voices in the
corridor till any hour, and very nearly came
out to see what was the matter." This
speech conjured up an awful vision before
Luce's eyes. If Mrs. Vincent, in nightcap
and dressing-gown, had indeed appeared like
an avenging fury, candle in hand, just at the

instant of that portentous kiss ! ^^ However,
I said to myself, it's probably only some of
those silly maids whispering and giggling,
and it was really too cold to turn out of bed
for such nonsense."

'' You were right not to disturb yourself,"
said Luce, gravely.

^^ Doesn't the housekeeper go round the
house. Granny ? " pursued Mrs. Vincent,
pleased to direct her attack upon another
inoffensive creature. '^ She should go round
the very last thing, lock all the maids into
their rooms, and see that every door is shut.
/ do that at home, but, of course, one can
never trust servants. It is very foolish todo
so."

'' The doors are always locked by the
butler," said Granny, quietly.

'^ But so often men are drunk. It is really
not safe to leave it to them."

^' I can trust Porter," said Granny; '^ he
has been with me these fifteen years."

^' Ah, well, of course, if you are sure.
Some people have such confidence, and seem
quite surprised when they are imposed
upon."

'^ I would rather trust than always suspect,

as you do, Maria. You render your life
wretched by your suspicions "

^' That is better, at least, than to be made
a fool of."

After breakfast Luce followed Granny
into her own little study, and there, having
first carefully shut the door lest Mrs. Vincent's
sharp ears should be within reach, she
drew Luce to her and said, ^^ Thank you,
my dear, dear child. Dick tells me that he
has asked you to be his wife."

'' But oh, Granny," said Luce, flushing
and trembling, '' I don't know whether I
ought ; I am so plain, he will never love me.
How can T make him happy ? " •

'^ Have no fear, child, you love him ? "

^^OJi yes, I love him dearly." She had the
right to say it now ; she raised her eyes and
looked proudly at grannie. The old lady
seemed to sympathise ; she patted her hair
gently, and made her sit beside her.

''I am so glad to have you as a daughter, I
think we understand each other." The cold
wintry sun laid a ray upon Luce's brown hair
till it shone like gold, while a gleam of the
sunshine sparkled in her eye. ^^ You must
not be afraid of yourself and say you are

plain. You are going to be very happy,
and a happy woman is never plain. To my
mind Mrs. Vincent is plain, and yet she was
a fine girl in her youth, or Vincent would
never have married her ; but ill-temper and
envy have dragged down her mouth, and
unkindness has robbed her eye of its light.
Character stamps faces, you know''

Luce realised this as she glanced at
Granny's mouth — the sweetest, humane
feature in her kind countenance.

'^ And now, my child, I am not going to
be selfish, you want to see Dick ; you have
a number of things to talk about ; you are
young, and the world is before you ; go, be
open and confiding with each other, it is the
secret of happiness."

I won't go yet," said Luce, clinging to
Granny's hand. ^'I like to be with you ;
you do me good ; you are so young."

Granny smiled. That young heart of
hers had played sad pranks in the aged
breast, and yet she would not have changed
it with Mrs. Vincent's stony organ for all
the world.

'' Granny, tell me about your youth, your

time of love ; how pretty you must have
been then!"

^^He said so — my husband'' said Granny
with a sigh. ^' But he was partial, for he
loved me dearly. We were very happy —
but that was fifty years ago — and then he
died."

'^ And you never married again ? "

'^ Why should I ? Each fortunate creature
has its gleam of sunshine on earth. I had
had mine ; it could never come again. T
waited, I have been waiting forty-five years,
my time is drawing near."

But, Granny, you have lived a dozen
lives in those you have made happy." ^

'^ I have tried my best ; though we can do
little ourselves; we must leave it all to
God."

Luce sat stroking Granny's fingers; she
did not speak, seemingly absorbed in noting
the quaint cut sparkling gems that adorned
them.

'^I wonder if I shall be happy, Granny ? "

'^ Of course you will, child; though even
should you not, remember ' as your day is
so shall your strength be.' "

I am not strong, my nerves are weak — I

u

dread to suffer — if I should prove a burden
to iii husband ! "

'husband'' had a sweet sound; Luce's
tongue lingered over it tenderly.

«^A girl who loves should not talk like
this."

'^ I have never believed myself destined
for happiness ; a quiet twilight of contentment
suits me best, the half-lights and subdued
tints are mine."

' But yet you see Providence has willed it
otherwise ; he has given to me my fondest
wish — a dear daughter ; and now. Luce, I
cannot let you moralise any more. I shall
call Dick."

Luce submitted passively, and presently,
when Grranny had been absent a few
moments, Dick slowly pushed the door open.
His eyes took in Luce's figure, her nervous
agitation, her gentle questioning look, the
happiness in her eyes, that scarce suppressed,
radiated at sight of him. He stepped forward
and took both her hands in his.

'^ Luce," he said, standing over her gravely
; '^ you have not repented, you mean to
be my wife ? "

'^ You really wish it ? ''

'^ Of course ; I cannot trifle with such
serious things." Her eyes brightened.

'' Oh, Luce ! '' he continued, taking a place
beside her on the narrow couch. '' Grannie
is so pleased ; she says it will be the making
of me ; that you are just what I wanted —
the balance of love she called it in her
poetical fashion."

'^ But there is to be no love, " said Luce,
with affright. Whatever might betide, there
must be truth between them.

'* Well, we'll see about that. Won't aunt
Vincent be rabid, just? we haven't told her
yet, you know ; she always hoped I should
never marry, and leave her sons to inherit''

'^ That was not likely," broke in Luce,
hotly. '' How can people be so mean ? "

^^She is the incarnation of meanness ; she
is mean even to that poor, cunning, foolish
wretch of a husband, for whom she has a
sneaking affection; she stints him in his
food, which makes him so fond of coming
here to get a good meal, and she is always
reproaching him because his nose is red, and
he smells of stables.

'' Horrid ! " said Luce.

'' We will not be like that, Luce ; we will

have no secrets and no shams ; if we are
poor, we will be poor, and not pretend;
though I know Granny will deluge us withall
manner of kind things, so there is no fear
of that."

'^ I am glad," said Luce, laying her head
on his shoulder. '^ I don't think poverty
would suit you, and I should hate being the
involuntary cause of it."

' Little duck ! you grow prettier everyday,
Luce. You must get yourself a blue
gown with brown fur on it like Maud Hard-fast's,
it would suit you so well."

T don't care to dress like Maud Hard-fast.
I shall always be plain and simple.
Aunt used to say I never did the best French
dressmaker any credit."

'' But you have a neat little waist and
the tiniest of hands— by Jove, Luce, what
a tiny hand it is ! I shall never be able to
get a ring to fit you."

I don't want rings," said Luce, shortly.

'' Rubbish ! I shall give you a ring, a little
plain gold band with a turquoise in it, the
colour of evening sky as it is called, to
remind you of that walk we took last night.

Was I a brute, Luce, to talk to you as I
did ?"

'^ I should never have forgiven you if you
had not told me. To think that you were
unhappy and that I could help you, gave me
confidence. Do you really believe I shall
make you happy ? "

*^I am sure of it'' said Dick, sealing the
assertion with a kiss.

'^ Then, Dick," she hesitated, twining her
fingers softly around his, " then Dick, you
will tell her that you mean to marry me.
You will not give her unnecessary pain, not
leave her to hear it from a stranger''

*' As I heard of her marriage," interrupted
Dick, angrily. ^^Why not? She must be
nothing to me now."

'^ But I should feel happier if she knew, if
she gave her consent; you understand Dick
what to say, you need not see her, I don't
think I should like that, but, just write to
her kindly, to please me."

''I think it very unnecessary," he answered
somewhat sullenly. '' Of course she does not
care now — why should she ? She left me first,
she spoilt my life."

'' Oh, Dick ! "

VOL. I. S

Well," he said, taking her in his arms,
'' I mean she spoilt it until you came with
your really nice ways; and now you are
going to make something good of me ; you
will have all your work cut out, though, I tell
you beforehand."

Luce was very happy, so happy that her
blunted confidence in herself returned; she
was evidently not destined to be the pariah
in life she had supposed, but to taste of the
ricci banquet of love. The reaction from
severest self-denial to perfect unfolding of
each hidden petal of her tender heart, made
the sense of bliss more exquisite. Even the
letter which had to be written to Lady
Eleanor cost her little effort, though she
knew that the answer would inevitably pour
a cold douche of worldly sarcasm upon the
warmth of her feelings. Lady Eleanor
promptly wrote back in a kind and congratulatory
strain which seemed to her appropriate
to the occasion.
'' My deal Luce,

I cannot express to you my
pleasure at finding that you have at last ^
profited by the excellent education I gave
you. It is a girl's first duty to respond to ^,

^

the efforts her elders make on her behalf,
and to do credit to her training. You must
have managed well to have secured Mr.
Carrol, who at his grandmother's death will
inherit a handsome fortune, and, as the latter
is turned seventy, you will not have long to
wait. I had lately heard unfortunate rumours
about Mr. Carrol's little affair with Miss Bray
before her marriage, but of course, as he has
proposed to you, this can only have been a
caprice on his part, which absence and change
of scene have dispelled. They tell me Mr.
and Mrs. Vincent Carrol are regular sponges
and live upon the old lady ; of course you will
make it your business to oust them as soon
as possible. There cannot be two mistresses
in a household. I have always acted upon
this principle in my life, and have found it
answer well. Be perfectly sure of your own
position, and secure it by every means in
your power. Is there anytime proposed for
the wedding ? I see no reason for delay, and
think that as soon as the election is over
you could be married. It will not take long
to get the settlements drawn out, and the
trousseau ready. Let me hear what ares

2

your views on this matter, and believe me,
my dear Luce,

Your affectionate aunt,
Eleanor Highview.

The letter dropped from Luce's fingers.

'^ The little affair with Miss Bray." So
that was the way Dick's love, a love which
he said had altered his whole life, was
spoken of ; every one was aware of it ; it
formed the subject of sarcastic talk between
Lady Eleanor and her gossiping friends.
Besides which. Lady Penchurch lived in the
next county, not more than fifteen miles
from Long Leam, and Luce and she must
meet and speak and smile at each other, and
hold out their hands with the knowledge of
the past burning in their hearts. So long as
Dick's love had been a secret confided to her
only, so long as it was but a kind of honourable
trust. Luce had felt capable of taking a
philosophical view, in which disapproval
neatly tempered by pity was not found unendurable,
but to share this secret with the
common herd, to hear it spoken of and
glossed over, and sneered at, would need
almost superhuman strength, while, to feel

she had contented herself with another's
leavings must be sadly wounding to vanity.
Thus argued Luce. Finally reproaching herself
for fainting already beneath the burden
she had freely accepted, she descended to the
drawing-room to sing, as was her usual
habit, to Granny in the twilight. Granny
was not there, however, but Mrs. Vincent
was. The third day of Luce's engagement
had now arrived, and, at her earnest request,
Mrs. Vincent was told nothing definite until
the consent arrived from Lady Eleanor.
Mrs. Vincent, however, had her suspicions,
and promptly attacked Granny, who, taken
at a disadvantage, was signally routed anal
confessed the truth.

'^ Ah, I always said she was a schemer''
snorted Mrs. Vincent. '^ Those girls with
brown hair and pale faces and quiet unobtrusive
manners always are. They perpetually
watch you and find out your very
thoughts in the style of a perfect nineteenth-century
inquisition. I knew she was up to
mischief."

^' Dick loves her'' said Granny, meekly.

'^ Fuzzle-de-boo ! he loved Evelyn Bray
six months ago, and he will love some one else

six months hence. Luce merely flattered
him and traded on his weakness ; bless you,
I know it all ; young men are as weak as
water."

^' She will make him an excellent wife."

'^ And pray what did he want a wife for ?
Or why couldn't he have married one of his
cousins ? There is Dolly, who plays the
piano like a professor, she will be eighteen
next month, or Eliza, who draws in oils and
watercolours, she is sixteen and has a
lovely complexion. But to go and marry
a plain girl like Luce. However, I suppose
it's for her money. Will she have a large
fortune ? "

'^ As far as I know she will have none ;
she is entitled to none at least, unless her
uncle chooses to leave her something''

^^ What a disgusting affair!" responded
Mrs. Vincent, flouncing out of the room.

It may be surmised from this specimen of
Mrs. Vincent's feelings that when Luce
found her alone in the drawing-room the
former lady did not scruple to give her a
bit of her mind.

You are mighty close, Miss'' she said.
*' I congratulate you on being able to hold

your tongue. In my day, when young
ladies were engaged to be married they did
not make a secret of it, but they consulted
their family and asked for their consent."

^^ I don't know what you mean," said
Luce, holding her music-book before her
like a shield.

'' Oh, don't you ? I understand you wish
to become my niece, but you haven't asked
my advice."

^^ I beg your pardon, Mrs. Vincent ; I
scarcely see what you have to do with me."
Eighty-eight, young lady, you take it
very coolly. You are not mistress here
yet."

The words of Lady Eleanor's letter flashed
to Luce's mind; her aunt was right; this
woman would be a thorn in her side.
Accustomed to gentle yielding. Luce said :

^^ Well, Mrs. Vincent, you don't object tome.
I hope we shall be good friends."

^' Friends! you have acted like an enemy.
You came here determined to captivate
my nephew. I saw you, I appreciated your
little game ; you humbugged Dick, pretending
to care for the dogs and the horses, and
sitting open mouthed when he talked of his

speeches and his canvassing; you, who know
he can't string three words together grammatically.
You did lapdog to Granny, and
boxed yourself up with her until you made
her think you preferred a doting old woman's
society to the amusements suited to your
age. Luce Windermere, I have seen through
your intrigues I appreciate your subterfuges,
you cannot humbug meP

When she paused for breath Luce quietly
observed, ^^ I have no wish to humbug you,
Mrs. Vincent, I wished to be friends ; but if
you will not have it so, I suppose I must
submit. Dick has asked me to marry him,
and that is a question on which I think he
must be the best judge''

^' Hear her, the little plausible minx ; just
now the gentle shrinking madam did not
know what I meant, but she understands at
least what she means herself; you will be an
excellent wife for Dick, madam ; he will not
dare to say a word to save his life ; he is
very fortunate, I must say, to have such a
termagant for his own. I shan't trouble you
much, oh dear no ! "

Aunt Vincent seized her worsted, skewered

it with the large crochet-pin, and stalked
from the room. Luce had gained a victory,
but it was dearly bought. Mrs. Vincent washer
enemy for life !

CHAPTER XIX.

Lady Fenchurch meanwhile passed her time
in considerable suspense and anxiety. Her
canvassing was but half-hearted, for she felt
herself a traitor to both causes, while she
tried to shut her ears to all mention of Dick,
and to devote her attention to her husband's
interests. This was the less difficult, as Miss
Fenchurch, with all an old maid's pertinacity,
read the local Tory paper outlook everyday
from beginning to end, emphasizing the
favourable comments upon Sir Hilary's
speeches with her own pithy remarks, and
holding him up to admiration on all occasions.
No man need blow his own trumpet
when he has adoring womankind belonging
to him, the tone they are able to produce is
much more strident and far-reaching than
any effort of which he is capable. Miss

Fenchurch admired her brother beyond
everything, and was never tired of dinning
into Lady Fenchurch's ears that she ought
to esteem herself fortunate in holding the
proud position of his wife. Naturally, when
we are told to be thankful for undeserved
blessings we rebel against the suggestion,
and Lady Fenchurch scarcely felt as grateful
as she ought to have done. Sir Hilary was
irritable too. He was forced to get up early
and drive long distances on foggy cold days,
and occasionally return late for dinner, in
addition to the unceasing worries of agents,
electors, and the numerous temptations to
bribery ; and these things disturbed his
equanimity and his digestion, and made him
less amicable at home. It was therefore
with considerable tremor that Evelyn received
a letter in Dick's handwriting duly
extracted from the postbag at the matutinal
breakfast-table, and handed to her by Sir
Hilary. He was absorbed in the perusal of
his own correspondence at the moment, and
did not notice that his wife, on reading
the superscription of the envelope, blushed,
slipped it into her pocket, and pretended to
sip her tea ; but Miss Fenchurch's eagle-eyes

observed the manoeuvre, and she quickly
inquired : '' From whom is your letter,
Evelyn, and what is it all about — good news,
I trust ? "

^^Itis nothing important," said Evelyn,
feeling guilty; dear me, how late it is to
be sure ; I had no idea we had been such an
age at breakfast. Where are you going today,
Hilary ? ''

'' I have a long ride before me ; Dewsnap
goes too ; some doubtful fellows to visit the
other side of the country. I may be late for
dinner; you need not wait for me "

^' Of course we shall wait," said Miss
Fenchurch with dignity, shutting the tea-caddy
with a snap.

Evelyn hurried to her room at the earliest
opportunity, and there with trembling hands
she tore open her letter.

^' My friends wish me to marry, but I can
do nothing without telling you, Evelyn. If
you do not approve, say so freely, though I
scarcely think that my actions can in anyway
interest you now. Dick "

Evelyn walked up and down in agitation ;
a few tears sprang to her eyes. She had
never cared for Dick sufficiently to break

her heart for him, though she had nursed
her love into an interesting and sentimental
grievance. She sincerely meant to forget
him, and her life with Sir Hilary was as
pleasant and honourable as she had ever
anticipated; yet she would have been
scarcely a woman had she heard of her
lover's engagement unmoved. What was
she to answer, how could she write? Anger,
wounded pride, and sentimental love all
struggled for mastery in her breast ; first she
vowed he should not marry ; then she said
he should, and suffer for it ; finally she persuaded
herself she did not care, and that it
was a matter of perfect indifference to her.
All the morning she walked up and down
her room with impatient uneven steps,
winding and crushing her pocket-handkerchief
between her fingers, biting her lips,
and behaving altogether like a foolish passionate
woman.

Presently Miss Fenchurch knocked at the
door. ^'What is the matter, Evelyn? Do
let me in. You fidget me so, walking up
and down in that irritating way. I can hear
you as I sit in the library; if you want
exercise why don't you go out, and take

Jenny Jones her broth. You promised she
should have it to-day."

'' I will not walk up and down any more''
said Evelyn, calmly, through the half-open
door. "" I am busy writing letters ; if necessary,
my maid can take Jenny Jones her
broth."

Jenny Jones, indeed ! Broth, indeed !
Far other cares occupied her thoughts. Miss
Fenchurch somewhat grumblingly retired,
and Lady Fenchurch once more resumed
the thread of her self - discourse. For one
thing she was not veri sorry for this project
of Dick's, it would have been no doubt sweet
to meet occasionally, and to consider herself
the guiding-star and angel of a young man's
life ; but then again people had gossipped
a little about her. Miss Fenchurch told her
this one day when she had lectured her
about the propriety of demeanour necessary
in the young wife of an elderly baronet.
Sir Hilary's eye, too, had glittered with a
strange light when he inquired if she had
met Dick on the day of their last interview,
and her position was altogether too comfortable
and easy for her to risk the loss of it.
After a while Evelyn sat down, and, taking

a fair sheet of paper, she quickly wrote these
few words :

'^ Yes Dick, it is best so. Marry if you
think it will give you happiness, and forget
me. Grot bless you always."

She read over this letter, and thought as
she did so that a little pique sounded through
the expression of her good wishes ; yet, as it
was written now, the sentences, poor and
unsatisfactory as they seemed, must remain.
The very mystery and doubt that hung
about them might give more impressiveness
to the decision. She closed up the letter,
put it in her pocket where Dick's note rested
already, and came down to luncheon dressed
for driving.

^' I am going into West Thorpe," she said
unconcernedly to Miss Fenchurch ; ^' will you
come also ? "

'^ No, thank you ; I have too much regard
for my health ; there is a bitter east wind
blowing, and I should be sure to get neuralgia."


.'^ Very well, then, I will order the pony
carriage and drive myself."

Are you sure you will not catch cold ?
Hilary would not like that you know."

'^ I am not afraid of a little bit of cold ; it
braces me, and I can well take care of
myself," said Lady Fenchurch, somewhat
haughtily. She would post her letter in
West Thorpe, she said to herself, and thus
feel sure it would reach its destination ; and
perhaps, who could tell, see Dick walking
or riding in the town ; and she would leave
her pearl necklace at Cherry and Appleton,
the goldsmiths, and get them to re-string it,
for one of the beads had become detached
the last time she wore it. She drove the
ponies — who jumped and kicked about, and in
their joy at leaving the stable nearly pulled
her arms off — quickly into West Thorpe, and
drew up with a splash at the door of the
jeweller. One of the fat partners came
out bowing and smiling. ^' Now mind, I
want the necklace back on Friday," she
said, ^^for Sir Hilary does not know the
string is broken, and he wishes me to wear
it at a large dinner-party the same night.
He is very particular; don't forget, please."
^'I won't forget, your ladyship," said the
jeweller, as he watched her flick the steaming
ponies with her whip and start off again
rapidly.

^' A fine young woman, that," he said to
himself, as he leisurely re-entered the shop ;
^* looks as if she had a will of her own, too."

Evelyn drove about the town, bought lace
at the draper's and an almanac at the stationer's,
and called at the grocer's, and gave
an order at the fruiterer's, and posted her
letter, but no sign did she see of Dick, nor
did she hear his name mentioned by any of
the obsequious tradespeople who served her.
Reluctantly she turned her ponies' heads,
and proceeded at a more sedate pace towards
home. Indeed, what had she expected?
After such a letter how could she speak to
him, save as a perfect stranger ; how should
she school her lips, her eyes, those tell-tale
creatures ; and yet with the duplex sensitiveness
to impressions of her sex, she longed to
meet him, to watch the effect of her communication,
to note if he cared for the girl
he was going to marry. She had a curiosity
to know something about her too ; of course,
it was not a union of love. Evelyn pressed
her lips together haughtily, she could not
be forgotten already. Possibly the affair
might have been arranged so as to stop the
mouth of scandal. That was just like him,

VOL. I. T

to be kind and considerate to her. She
had not been so considerate, leaving him to
hear of her marriage from the newspapers ;
but then men and women were different — he
was bound to regard her reputation, her
honour — while her duties towards him were
less plain and imperative. Deep in thought
she slackened her hold upon the ponies, and
one of them, missing the pressure of the bit,
sprang on one side shying sportively at a
glistening puddle. His mistress was all
attention at once.

'^ Quiet, Box," she said, patting him
gently with her whip, '' quiet, quiet ! " As
she spoke in caressing accents to her ponies
she suddenly discovered what, owing to this
little difficulty, had escaped her previous
observation, that the horseman rapidly
approaching was Dick himself. Involuntarily
she checked the ponies, and he pulled
up, and, as they both did so, both coloured
at the recollection of their own thoughts,
and remained silent. She first recovered
herself.

'^ I have just posted a letter to you," she
said, with a pretty hesitation.

'' Is it satisfactory?" he asked, eagerly.

u

How do you mean ? " She drew herself
up rather stiffly. '' I cannot tell what will
satisfy you."

What, indeed ! It was a strange position
for a young woman, and both felt it,
while their very hesitation prolonged the
dilemma.

'' I know you will do what is kind and
wise," he said, soothingly.

^' Kind and wise ! " she repeated ; '' it is
not so easy to know what is kind and wise.
You must please yourself ; you have a
right."

' I should like to be sure you are happy
that you do not care " — he said, lingeringly.


^^ Of course, I am very happy; you have
no right to doubt it," she said, haughtily.
^' I suppose it is your cousin you mean to
marry ? "

^'No, not my cousin — a very nice girl,
though'' Then remembering that praise of
another could not be particularly agreeable
to Evelyn, he added, '^ Granny wishes it ;
it is to please her, you know."

^' Exactly — you feel like a good little boy.
Well, I'm sure, I hope the plan will succeed."

T 2

Evelyn smiled somewhat sarcastically
He felt nettled.

** I gave you the choice, you had my life
in your hands— it is not too late even now."
He knew he could count on Luce's generosity
and forbearance, especially as there
was no question of love between them.

"Evelyn, pray speak! What do you
wish ? "

*' I wish nothing. I am satisfied you
should do what you think best for yourself."

^^ Evelyn ! Evelyn ! if things had been
different "

Well, it is no use thinking of that now,
is it ? " she said, flicking one of the ponies so
that he started, then checking him abruptly
with a turn of her wrist, ^'we had better
talk of something else."

"• You have been shopping ? " he asked
absently, biting his moustache and wondering
how far he dare speak of this feelings.

^^Yes," she answered lightly, *^ buying
trash, the kind of useless trifles women can
never resist when they see them in shops —
would you like an almanac for the new
year? — and I have been leaving my pearl
necklace to be re strung at the jewellers. It

was a birthday present from Sir Hilary, you
knows and he likes me particularly to wear
it."

'^ Which jeweller do you employ ? " he
asked, mechanically, still pondering what
he should say next.

^^ Oh, the old-established pair. Cherry an
Appleton. What funny old men those two
partners are, with their rosy cheeks and bald
heads ; and the way they have of always
washing their hands with imaginary soap as
they talk to you."

Dick thought Evelyn had not improved,
her manner was decidedly flippant.

I must go now, you will let me know the
result of my letter — or no, you had better
not — I shall learn it soon enough, this is such
a gossiping county."

And with these light words they parted ;
the impatient ponies gladly obeyed the encouragement
given them to go, and shaking
their merry heads trotted off briskly.

Dick, left alone, brushed his hand across
his eyes, and somewhat moodily rode on. Soit
was over ; he was free ; and henceforth a
parliamentary career and Luce must be his
guiding stars. How easily she had quitted

him ; how little she had appeared to care ; and
yet for that woman he nearly broke his heart,
as near, namely, as a gay young man can ever
break what he is pleased to call his heart.
He had endured horrid scruples, and bitter
thoughts, and sleepless nights, and once his
appetite had failed, and he had felt weary
and disillusioned and sad ; and behold in the
same breath she could give him his cone,
drive her ponies gaily, and prattle of the
birthday present Sir Hilary had given her,
pearls, precious stones — of course no woman
could resist their fascination. He did not
know that women hide the deepest grief
under a gay exterior ; that dissimulation and
smiles are the parry and thrust of the sexes'
lively fencing. Had he beheld Evelyn a
moment later, with the gaiety vanished, the
brow puckered, the lips close pressed and
drawn down, and sombre annoyance written
upon her countenance, perhaps he might
have changed his opinion. Notwithstanding
the east wind, the ponies steamed and panted
when they stopped at the bottom of the stone
steps of Oakdene. Evelyn threw the reins
carelessly on their backs, while the agile

§^room jumped down and ran up the steps to
ring the bell.

'^ Sir Hilary has returned' said the butler,
when he assisted Lady Fenchurch out of the
carriage, '^ and he expects you in the
library."

^' Why, it is not tea-time yet, is it Jones?"
asked Evelyn wonderingly.

'^No, my lady, it has but just struck four."

Leisurely stripping off her gloves as she
went along, Evelyn pushed open the door of
the library and beheld Miss Fenchurch and
her brother in close confab on the rug in
front of the fire.

^' Shocking ! how ungrateful ! " Miss F^i-
church was saying in shrill maidenly tones.
They parted guiltily at Evelyn's approach,
who, with cheeks slightly reddened by the
chill atmosphere in which she had been
driving, and eyes still glistening with emotion,
looked questioningly towards them.

"Ah! here is Evelyn," said Miss Fen-church.
'^ Now I will just leave you two together,
while I go and finish marking those
pocket-handkerchiefs of yours, Hilary."

Miss Fenchurch, with angular activity.

slipped from the room, and left the husband
and wife alone.

Sir Hilary, who was dressed in riding-clothes,
began to flick nervously with his
whip) against his high leather boots, while
Lady Fenchurch, engaged in unbuttoning
her sealskin jacket, remarked unconcernedly
upon his early return.

'^ How soon you came home to-day,
Hilary ! I thought you said you were going
for a long ride with Dewsnap, and that we
were not to wait dinner for you. I never
expected to see you already," she said, cheerfully.


'^ I have no doubt you did not," he
answered drily.

'^ I hope you are not ill ? " she continued,
in a tone of wifely concern.

'^ Oh dear no— not that I'm aware of''

'^ Haven't you had a good day, dear ? "

^' Well, I don't know what you call a good
day ; I should call it a very bad one' he
answered, sharply.

'' What is it — won't you tell me ? I am so
sorry, Hilary," said Evelyn, sweetly.

^' Sorry ! Fashionable wives don't care
much about their husbands' annoyances."

*' I am not a fashionable wife."

^' You are trying to be one."

^' What is the matter, Hilary ? Do speak
out."

'^ It might not be pleasant for you if I
spoke out ; however, I will be as explicit as I
can. Tell me truly ; did you gain or lose by
marrying me ? Have I been kind to you ;
let you have all you wished for — given you
present ts ? '

^^Yes, yes!^' cried Evelyn, wonderingly,
remembering the pearl necklace, and Sir
Hilary's generosity, 'you have been most
kind."

'' And how have you repaid me ? L
certainly was not a puling schoolboy when I
married you. I did not write verses to
your eyes, or compare you to the moon, or
practise any of the silly sentimental fashions
of young fools. I did not do this, and I did
not think you would expect me to do it, but
I gave you my name, and a position, and a
home, and everything which an honest man
can give his wife. Say, did I, or did 1
not ? " as Sir Hilary spoke he drew himself
up.

You have behaved very well."

^^ Then why do you on your part deceive
me, and disgrace me, and make my name a
by word ? "

^^ I ? Hilary, what do you mean ? "

^' You know, you know well enough, you
had a love affair with that young Dick
Carrol while you were engaged to me; you
met him at the Meynells, they told me so
themselves; he was in Switzerland at the
very time of our honeymoon, I believe you
saw him ; you have met him since, clandestinely,
on the road to-day even for aught I
know ''

Evelyn turned white, and her knees trembled
under her ; appearances were certainly
suspicious; yet she was really innocent, but
could she convince Sir Hilary of this. He
was a rough, straightforward, honourable
man, he would understand none of the delicate
mental sophistry in which feminine
minds excel; his anger once excited would,
she knew, be difficult to allay. He continued

^' Why you didn't marry him I am at a
loss to conceive ; you we7'e free once, and no
one would have objected ; instead of which
you let me become your husband under false
pretences, to redeem the word I gave your

father (a real gentleman if ever there was one)
when he died under my roof, and I promised
to take care of his daughter. How could J do
this better than by marrying you ? Evelyn,
you have treated me shamefully ! "

Indeed, Hilary, if you will only listen, I
am not so guilty as you think."

^' Not so guilty ! I only acknowledge two
things — right and wrongs

I mean I have been a good wife to you,
and I intend to continue ; don't be so harsh in
your judgments; if I — if Mr. Carrol "

'' If you love each other, I suppose you
mean, what does it signify ? But it does
signify; I'll stand no playing fast and loose,
under my roof ; answer me, has there been
any love-making between you and Carrol —
I want a plain answer, yes or no ? " He
seized her hand and held her at arm's length
threateningly. The blood crimsoned his
wife's fair cheek and the veins in her neck
swelled visibly.

'* You must not speak like that," she said
haughtily. '^ I am not a prisoner."

^' No, by heaven! " he said bitterly, letting
her go and falling back a step. ^'I know that ;
and no bars and bolts can keep a woman

from getting her head loose, and doing as
she pleases. Well, answer me, tell me the
truth if you can."

'^ The truth is this' she said rapidly,
hurrying her words as if to get the anguish
of speaking over quickly. ^' The truth is
that I did meet Dick Carrol at the Mevnells :
he liked me, he said, and I listened, for a
little — then I remembered you."

'sit was high time you did," muttered
her husband between his teeth.

^' And I told him of my engagement and
that I meant to keep it ; after that I married ;
I have seen Mr. Carrol once or twice since
accidentally— that is all I have to tell you."

^^ My sister says you blushed violently today
when a letter was put into your hands ;
you seemed agitated all the morning and
drove into West Thorpe this afternoon. Was
the letter from Mr, Carrol, and did you see
him ? "

^* He wrote to tell me he was going to be
married; I saw him coming out of West
Thorpe ; I met him riding, and we spoke fora
few moments about nothing — I said I had
been shopping." Sir Hilary's brow grew
more cloudy.

every nicely concocted, a sweet simple
story, which does your heart and your head
credit, only unfortunately I don't believe a
word of it''

^' Hilary ! '' she exclaimed, in amaze.

'' Evelyn ! You must try to understand
that I resent being imposed upon ; when I
deal fairly with people I expect them to deal
fairly with me ; you have not done so, consequently
I cannot believe the most plausible
story you may set up''

*^ Don't be jealous, Hilary," she pleaded.

^^ Jealous! am I jealous? I don't think
so ; I wish to be just, just to you and just to
myself. All this affair is too new and too
unfortunate for you and me to discuss it
quietly. Go to your room, Evelyn ; let us
both think — and try to have confidence in
me if yoa can," he added, more gently.

^^ You will not believe me; what can I
say, what can I do ? I would not make you
unhappy, or vex you, if I could help it. I
am not really to blame. I was only weak
and foolish — and afraid," she said,falteringly.
^^Yes," he said, conducting her to the
door with his old-fashioned politeness, which,
even at such moments, did not desert him.

'^ Yes, weak and foolish, that is what all
women begin by, and then later they are
not afraid to be wicked."

Evelyn sobbed when she reached her room,
she threw her gloves and hat petulantly
aside and cried till she was tired. To be
disbelieved, to be worried and badgered
about a lover whom she had rejected of her
own accord, and who was now about to
console himself with another woman, seemed
too cruel, and unjust, Friendless and alone,
as she was, there was no one to help or advise
her. She loathed the hour in which
she first met Dick ; she almost hated him for
having brought such trouble upon her ; j must
for a little bit of flirtation, a few idle words
of love, to be punished like this — certainly
it was unendurable. She had meant nothing
serious, a May-day fancy only, which, once
dismissed from her mind, should have been
forgotten by every one else ; and, which were
it not for the headstrong passion of her lover,
might have resulted in no serious consequences.
She was not even flattered by
the persistency of his affection, for had he
remained abroad, and never written to her,
all would have been well. She was impatient

at lier helplessness, and angry with everyone
concerned

At eye o'clock Miss Fenchurch entered the
room with a cup of tea and a plate of muffins.
^' Hilary sent you this," she said, with a
studied air of indifference.

'^ Why, I am not a prisoner ? '' cried
Evelyn, starting up dishevelled from the
bed where she was lying.

^^He thought that just now, perhaps, you
would rather not come down."

'^ And the servants, what will they think ?
Tell him I am obliged for the tea, but I
shall certainly make a point of appearing at
dinner."

'' Evelyn, do not make Hilary angry,"
warned Miss Fenchurch.

^^ Angry! it is I who am angry. I told
him the truth, and he does not believe me.
Rachel, now say, do I look like a guilty
wife ? "

She threw herself impulsively into the old
maid's arms. '* You believe me, don't you?"

^' Yes, yes, my dear!" said Miss Fen-church,
gently disentangling herself from
the embrace, and speaking soothingly, as
she might to a naughty child, '^ I am quite

sure you would not be so wicked as to
deceive Hilary, the very best of men. You
know what his truth and honour are, and
how much he thinks of them''

^^ But I have truth and honour too," said
Evelyn, tearfully, 'sand I have done nothing
wrong, except, perhaps, to marry him''

"Hush, my dear! " Miss Fenchurch looked
as shocked as possible at such a sentiment.
You must try and deserve his favour
and not irritate him with your obstinacy,
and I will tell him, that, on account of the
servants, you think it better to come down
to dinner. He will quite understand, for he
detests anything like a family quarrel before
one's inferiors."

It is probable that had Lady Eenchurch
really been guilty of a grave crime for which
she was enduring agonies of remorse, she
could scarcely have suffered more than she
did at that instant from the pangs of wounded
self-love, anxiety, and angry pique. For a
great passion strips insignificant things of all
their sting and in its vastness merges all
petty miseries.

CHAPTER XX.

Dick rode home thoughtfully. Some people
would have called it a stroke of luck that
Evelyn, contrary to the rapaciousness of her
sex, should so easily have consented to
resign him to another. Yet he felt aggrieved
and at the same time more easy in his mind.
The next morning he received Lady Fen-church's
letter. As soon as he found himself
on the terrace, where he now regularly
smoked his morning cigar, with Luce by
his side, he pulled it out of his pocket.

'^ There, Luce, there is a letter from the
woman I loved so foolishly. She does not
care a bit for me, but you were justified
in making me write to her." Luce read,
and, when she had done so, smoothed out the
letter carefully.

''I think she did care, Dick, but she is

VOL. I. U

evidently proud and right-minded. Well,
all is clear before you now, at any rate."

'she was a heartless coquette!" Dick
puffed, vehemently at his cigar.

'' No, no, Dick ! don't reproach her, and
try to be a little happy with me," she said,
gently.

'' You angel ! " said Dick, rapturously.
Kindly feeling and absence of envy seemed
a rare thing in his young experience.

"' Not an angel, please ; nobody was ever
in love with an angel, and I want you " —
hesitating — '' to love me some day, Dick."

'^ The some day will be sooner than you
think, perhaps." He took her hand kindly.

'^ Don't talk nonsense, Dick — why here is
Granny."

It was indeed Granny come out in the
sunshine to look at her two dear children —
the children of her old age, who had succeeded
in making her heart glad.

vincent wants yoii in the stables, Dick,"
she said in her kind voice, as Dick hurried
up and offered his arm. ^' Never mind me
now, Luce will help the old woman."

Luce brightly accepted the trust, and her
lover departed, whistling.

He found Uncle Vincent pacing up and
down the yard, speaking in a loud angry
voice to the stable-men, who flew to execute
his behests. '' A parcel of lazy, idle, good-for-nothing
blockheads," he was saying.
^^ I've a great mind to sack you all ; don't
know your business, and don't want to know
it, and get drunk whenever you can."
Uncle Vincent had been drinking too, the
tip of his nose was redder than usual, and
his voice was rasping and coarse.

^'What is it?" said Dick, appearing
smiling and fresh as a rose-bud on the scene.
Fortune was dealing kindly enough with
him just now, and her favours were written
in the clear eye and lazy contented voice.

^^Ah, is that you, Dick? Come here, 1
want a word with you, my dear fellow. 1
must have your advice —listen." He drew
him aside while the stable-men clattered to
and fro with their buckets. ^^ Fairy Queen
has broken down ! "

'broken down!" Dick stood aghast.
Only this very instant he had felt so confident
in his good luck.

'* There is nothing to be done — we must
scratch her."

V 2

^^What! is the thing already known?"
gasped Dick.

*rit was in the paper this morning."
Uncle Vincent drew out and unfolded a
crumpled piece of pink paper he had thrust
into his pocket. '' Those touts know everything
— cursed brutes "

^^ And you haven't hedged?" murmured
Dick, as the letters danced before his eyes.

Scarcely at all, and we shall have to
pay up shortly."

'^ It will be very inconvenient," said Dick.

^' More than inconvenient for me — it's
impossible," answered uncle Vincent.

^' What is to be done ? Why did you
ever persuade me into this ? " angrily said
Dick.

^' Oh, come, you're of age. You could
judge for yourself," said uncle Vincent,
spitefully.

^' Granny won't like my asking her again
for money, just now, too, when I'm engaged
to be married," Dick reflected.

That's true, then ; I heard a rumour of
it "

^' It is true. Now what do you propose''

'ewe must pay up. I could manage 300^.
or 400Z. I think if I tried."

'' But I had backed her for as much. I
tell you what it is. My mother has just
given a cheque of three hundred to my wife
for the girls' lessons, clothes, &c. I saw it
in her desk ; I'll get her to hand it over tome,
and you can make it good later on. If
you will cash it at West Thorpe this afternoon
I can pay the fellow at once, for I should
not like to send a cheque of my mother's to
Jimmy Shaw, who made the bet."

sewell, I suppose if the cheque is your
wife's you can let the girls wait a bit ; but
it is the very last time, Uncle Vincent, I will
have anything to do with your racing
transactions — I am not going to bet anymore
"

'^ Of course not," said his uncle, putting
the tip of his forefinger somewhat irreverently
up to his nose, '' of course not ; ^ when
the Devil was sick' — we all know the rest."

"^ If you want me to cash that cheque you
had better make haste," interrupted Dick ;
^^I am going into West Thorpe immediately,
and I must collect all my own ready-money
to pay off those idiotic bets."

Dick proved asS good as his word. He
cashed the cheque at the bank, and having
settled, not without considerable difficulty,
his own share in the transaction, he dismissed
the subject lightly from his mind, and proceeded
to stroll about the town. Suddenly
he remembered that he had lost his watch-key,
and resolved to go into Cherry and
Appleton's and buy another. While the
attentive showman was serving him, Dick
noticed a parcel lying on the counter
directed to Lady Fenchurqh. The name
attracted his attention, and he got up to
look a little closer.

'' Ah, that'' said the assistant, noticing
the direction of his eyes, '^ is a parcel we are
just sending to Lady Fen church ; it contains
her pearl necklace — a very fine one — a birthday
present from Sir Hilary ; he is a gentleman
of great taste. Her ladyship called
here and left it herself two days ago, and
desired particularly that it might be sent her
to-day without delay ; she is most anxious to
wear it on Friday evening. It is rather a
long way to send by hand, but we were
afraid there might be some delay if we

trusted to the post, and her ladyship was so
very particular."

^^ How do you send it ? "
^' By hand — by special messenger. It is a
little inconvenient, but we are most anxious
not to disappoint her ladyship, who is a very
good customer."

^'Of course " Dick hesitated. "I

have to ride past the lodge-gates this afternoon
on business of my own — I suppose it
would not be any assistance to you if I
offered to leave it."

^^I am sure it would, sir ; I will just speak
to Mr. Cherry''

Mr. Cherry, a bland obese personage, oh
being applied to, came forward civilly and
thanked Dick. '' We shall be much obliged
to you, sir, if you will kindly take the
trouble to leave it."

Dick pocketed the parcel, and, with a lingering
feeling of pleasure at being the fortunate
means of doing any little service for his
lady-love, rode off quickly. He had not
gone many miles before he met Gubbins
primed with interesting intelligence and
effusive bustle.

^' So clad to see you, my dear fellow ; a

most important voter lives near here; you
must come with me at once ; he is very
troublesome, and wants a great deal of
persuasion," said Gubbins, warmly.

'' But I am on my way to Fairholt." Dick
did not like to mention that he had promised
to leave a parcel for Lady Fenchurch ; he
was not quite certain if she would approve.

'^ Never mind, you can go there afterwards,"
said the agent.

Dick reluctantly turned his horse's head
and followed Gubbins. The interview
proved longer and more vexatious than they
had anticipated ; the afternoon waned, and
what with the talk and the worry, and
Slyforth's monopolization of all his thoughts,
Dick completely forgot the parcel with
which he had been entrusted. The next
day he started again early, and the packet
which his valet had extracted from the pocket
of his coat, and laid in his master's drawer,
again failed to recur to Dick's memory.
In fact, when later on these trivial facts
assumed a terrible importance, Dick could not
remember what he had done with the necklace,
and only retained the distinct recollection
of having put it in his pocket. He had

been so absorbed, and engrossed, with the
business of electioneering, that he ceased
to take a real interest in anything else.
He liked the sense of being flattered and
consulted, and feeling himself a person of
importance. He was remarkably sensitive
to the good opinion of his neighbours, while
taking little pains to conciliate it ; he liked
to be the best mounted and the best dressed
man at the covert side ; he liked to be thought
and rated as a good shot, and asked to join
the best battues in the neighbourhood. In
short, he liked to be talked about and
praised. He would have preferred to conduct
battues of his own (but in this case*
Granny was inexorable ; she would spend no
unnecessary money in rearing quantities of
fat pheasants merely for the satisfaction
of so called sportsmen, whose habit it is
ruthlessly to slaughter and to sell them, thus
converting sport into a mercantile transaction),
and in his own mind he already drew
a flattering and agreeable picture of himself
as a popular M.P., and a personage in the
arena of politics. Each day that passed confirmed
him more and more in the conviction
that Lady Fenchurch's marriage had been a

fortunate thing for him. If the clandestine
love affair had dragged on ; if Sir Hilary
had ever heard of it, and made a troublesome
fuss, as he might have done, being neither a
Londoner nor a heartless rone but only a
sober practical country squire, jealous of his
name and his honour ; if Luce had not been
as she was — the sweetest and the most
amiable of her sex, and allied to Lady
Eleanor High view, whose connections, being
of the most excellent blue blood, were
necessarily of great assistance in all social requirements;
had all these various things been
different he would probably have cursed
his luck about Fairy Queen, and done his
best to feel miserable. As it was, the polling-day
approached, and his prospects were fair.
The finest anticipations are always raised by
untried horses, and the balance of probability
in the result of the fickle mob's favour
seemed rapidly to point towards Dick's candidature.


Luce had returned to Highview nominally
on the score of propriety (now
that her engagement was gradually hinted
abroad, though still supposed to be involved
in mystery), but, as Dick laughingly declared,

really in order to spend her aunt's
fortune in laces and ribbons preparatory to
spending his. Old Mrs. Carrol was duly
closeted with her lawyer for a portion of
every day discussing ways and means,
marriage settlements, younger children's
portions, and widows' jointures, and all the
legal jargon which provides for a woman
from the time of her birth till the day of her
death, and never leaves her a free agent for
an instant. Mrs. Vincent, surrounded by
Dolly and Eliza, concocted spring garments
out of the remains of last year's wardrobe,
and the booty of which she had rifled
Granny's drawers.

The family were thus employed one
morning when Mrs. Carrol, having emerged
from her study to ask a question of Dick,
who, sauntering up and down smoking,
merely put in his head at the long window,
holding his cigar behind his back that the
smoke might not incommode his grandmother.
The family, thus innocently and
harmoniously collected, might have seemed
basking in the sunshine of prosperity, and
to have entered on a new career of happiness
and favour. Mrs. Vincent certainly

was still troubled with a few pricks of envy,
as she watched the two brown heads of
Dolly and Eliza bent over their needle-work,
and remembered that this fine house, withall
it contained, would pass into the hands
of a young lady she had once denominated
a minx ; still, even she had by this time
schooled herself to the inevitable, and determined
to be as amiable as the natural
acidity of her temper would allow. It had
therefore something of the effect of a thunderbolt
when Uncle Vincent, in riding-gaiters,
with splashed clothes and a heightened colour,
burst into the room, and exclaimed, in loud,
imprudent tones : '' Here's a pretty kettle offish!"


Dolly and Eliza looked up in amused
astonishment. Mrs. Vincent dropped her
work, and Mrs. Carrol, fearing some calamity,
laid a trembling hand on the edge of the
large marble-topped table, while Dick, still
holding his cigar behind him, moved a step
forward.

^' What do you think these d d Tories

have done ? "

'' What ? " cried every one at once.

^' Oh, Vincent, I thought from your face

there had been a death," gasped Granny,
who now turned quite pale.

Look ! just look ! " Uncle Vincent held
a flaming red poster in his hand. '^ They are
placarded everywhere, the town is swarming
with 'em, they have broken out like summer
blisters — it's all up with you, Dick, I expect."

^^ What is it?"

Dick now dropped his cigar and strode
into the room. He seized the placard, of
which Aunt Vincent's keen glance had already
gained a fair idea, read it, and looked around
at the party with stupid staring eyes.

^^ What is it, Dick?" asked Granny, in
her soft, gentle voice.

^' It is an insult — a lie," said Dick, hotly.
I must go and see about it at once."

^^My dear boy, don't fret; perhaps it's
only an election squib'' said Granny.

Its worse than that — it's a formal accusation."
♦

^^ Who accuses you —and of what?" she
said, quickly.

'' Well, it's deuced nasty, I must say,"
remarked Uncle Vincent ; *' they call him a
thief ; there's no mistake about it, it is all
plump and plain."

'' Such a thing must be actionable," objected
Granny. ^' How can they dare "

'^ At election time people dare all."

^ Perhaps it is true ; what have you done,
Dick ? " said Aunt Vincent, quietly.

'true!"

Dick gave his aunt a look which, had she
been more sensitive, must have withered
her, and fled from the room, followed by
Uncle Vincent. The red placard lay on
the floor, where Dick had thrown it. Aunt
Vincent picked it up and read it carefully ;
then suddenly looking round she exclaimed,
^^ Dolly — Eliza, good gracious! run, get salts
and eau-de cologne, and call the servants —
be quick, d'ye hear — don't you see — Granny
has fainted ! "

END OF VOL. I.

tSSs:^-

mm

':m

It;

^j^:

{ijrw:

SB"*

i

.'•■JiifJt-'.v. ■■„■ ■•

S^Tisi;

J.4?

sea;

fear';

OF THE

UN IVLR.SITY

or ILLINOIS

GS692c
V.2

\y- Cj ^ ^ >tL/

CONTENTS

VOLUME II.

CHAP. PAGE

I. — Amongst Chiffons 1

II. — A Student's Counsel . 16

III. — Back again at Highview . 32

IV. — Luce visits Granny 47

V. — Julian preaches Patience . . 64

VI. — A Lover's Tryst . . . . .76

VII. — What Lady Fenchurch said . . 93

VIII. — A Country Dinner-party . .110

IX. — What Lady Fenchurch did . . 122*

X. — Sir Hilary's Revenge . . . 135

XI. — Lovers no longer 154

XII. — Bruce peels lonely . . .169

XIII. — Mrs. Vincent decides for herself . 184

XIV. — Lady Eleanor is captious . . 200

XV. — Miss Fenchurch lectures . . 214

XVI — Mr. Dewsnap ADVISES . . . 227

XVII. — The Doctor tells a white lie . 244

XVIII. — Luce promises 257

XIX. — Sir Hilary surprises everyone . 272

XX. — Granny sleeps 286

CHAPTER I.

Luce and her aunt had arrived in London.
Lady Eleanor was completely in her element,
visiting dressmakers and consulting with
modistes. She believed herself artistic, and
took a commensurate pride in her presumably
fine and accurate taste ; in reality
she only succeeded in being eccentric and
extravagant. A deep colour, a tinge of
gold, a barbaric combination, gave her extreme
delight, and she indulged her predilections
at her ease.

Once, as simple in her ideas as she was
modest in the estimate of her own looks,
fairly winced under the suggestions her aunt
authoritatively threw out. The thickly-carpeted
show-rooms, in which silks and
satins hung invitingly and negligently over

VOL. II. B

the backs of chairs, gave her a shudder ; the
Imsh and air of absorption that reigned
around, as if in all the world there was nothing
more important than the choice of a
dress, inspired her with a sense of chill.
Madame Mousseline, the obsequious milliner,
with keen eyes glancing from one to the
other, as only a Frenchwoman can, to catch
the unexpressed thought in the countenance,
disgusted her, while she felt genuine pity for
the sallow-faced, languid girls, with frizzled
hair and long trains, that moved slowly to
and fro, their languor evaporating as soon as
they entered ,the passage, where they
quarrelled and snarled at each other in shrill
angry tones, or grumbled at the stern orders
of Monsieur, whose business it was to enforce
obedience, Madame was all sweetness,
except in Monsieur's unavoidable absence,
when she was found to be as sharp in her
tongue as her spouse himself. Luce, the unwilling
cause of hurry or discord in the
establishment, felt as though all these young
girls, with their hard, joyless lives, were
being offered up a holocaust on the altar of
her own selfishness. She positively hated
dress, hated it on account of its own intrinsic

unimportance, and also because she
had been surfeited with it from childhood,
on the principle of the pastry cook's boy,
who cannot bear the sight of tarts. But the
< sympathy" on such matters, which Lady
Eleanor, with every good intention, could
not conjure up a spark of in her impassive
niece, she found largely in Maud Hardfast,
who took a lively interest in everything connected
with chiffons. Maud, at first struck
dumb with fury and disappointment when
she read the letter conveying the news of
Luce's engagement, which Lady Eleanor had
lost no time in imparting to her dear Mrs.
Hardfast, had suffered deeply, and a scene of
bitter tears and recrimination took place
between mother and daughter.

'' My dear Maud, I told you all along you
were a failure — your day is over," said Mrs.
Hardfast, laying down the letter with an air
of vindictive asperity.

'' I haven't a rich aunt and Highview
Castle at my back. Every one thinks Luce
is an heiress'' responded Maud, bitterly.

^ ' I can do no more for you, my dear, and
I fear your looks are rapidly going. The
price of coals, too, has risen, and it is 

2

possible for mc to give you another new
gown at present."

'^ I don't want a new gown," said Maud,
snappishly. She had been tormenting her
mother to give her a lovely blue plush with
feather trimming, which she had seen at
Madame Mousseline's, and it argued a piece
of refined cruelty on Mrs. Hardfast's part
to deny her the gown, at the same time
that she reproached her with the loss of her
good looks. It meant that she was to consider
herself on the retired list, take second
rank as an ex-beauty, and a matrimonial
failure.

If, at least, you could bring young
Sterneyy to the point," pursued Mrs. Hard-fast,
calmly; ^' but they tell me he is quite
infatuated with the new American actress ;
and it is certainly a week since he has been
to see you."

Maud sighed. She would do anything,
anything in reason, she would be deterred
by no meanness, could she but secure a husband.
But man-hunting is even more precarious
and quite as difficult as boar-hunting ;
more especially because a girl cannot announce
her intention of starting for the chase,

but must pretend innocence and indifference.
It was five o'clock when Lady Eleanor's
letter arrived. The little tea-table was
drawn up near the fire, the reading-lamp,
covered with a pink shade, threw a pleasant
glimmer around ; a muffin simmered in its
hot dish ; the silver kettle crowed numerously
over a spirit-lamp. Maud's hair was
neatly coiled in waves of gold, and glistened
warmly in the firelight, and Mrs. Hardfast,
in the low armchair, plump and still good-looking,
formed an agreeable picture in her
tight-fitting tailor gown.

An ignorant observer might have called
the scene a family idol, yet dark vindictive
thoughts filled Maud's heart, and cold anS
selfish calculation oppressed the matronly
bosom of her mother. That evening Maud
lighted her two bedroom candles (she was
used to four, but from motives of economy
she had been lately reduced to two very
poor specimens of glaring spermaceti) and
contemplated her face earnestly in the glass
with the critical acumen of an artist, rather
than the indulgent tenderness of a vain and
pretty woman. " There is not a wrinkle'' she
said to herself with satisfaction, '^ not a grey

hair, my eyes are bright, my colour as clear
as ever ; a little pencilling might improve my
eyebrows, and a dash of lip-salve my lips,
but otherwise I am very well, and if I cannot
wheedle a man out of his name and
his fortune, I should like to know who can''
She retired to bed with a light heart and
slept as peacefully as the veriest child. The
next day she wrote a gushing and affectionate
note to dear Lady Eleanor, and, on
the arrival of the latter in town, made a
point of calling upon her immediately. She
found Lady Eleanor surrounded with patterns
of stuffs, and Luce in the corner trying to
read a book.

'come here, my dear ! " cried Lady Eleanor,
overjoyed to find a listener, '' come here ;
now give me your candid opinion, do you
prefer this delicate rose, or that exquisite
blue, and shall the dress have a 
or be draped a-la-Watteau?'^'' Maud
sat down and argued the point out carefully,
exhaustively, with the profound interest of a
connoisseur. Lady Eleanor was delighted.
'' What a treasure you are, my dear; stay and
dine with us ; we are going to the theatre, we
can easily squeeze you into our box, and you

needn't dress, you are charming just as you

are."

^^ I am afraid I must run away and tell
mamma," said Maud, prettily apologetic,
'sand get a pair of gloves; she can ask cousin
Jemima to sit with her you know, if she feels
lonely, only I must give her time ; I will be
back directly." And Maud ran off. When
she reached home she merely put her head
in at the dining-room where Mrs. Hardfast,
who expected no visitors, was sitting in a
flannel dressing-gown over a very small fire,
with the debris of a cup of servants' tea, and
a thick slice of bread and butter, before her.

^^ I'm going out ! " cried Maud, ^^ to dine
with Lady Eleanor ; send Jones upstairs
please and lend me your sable cloak."

Mrs. Hardfast serenely rang the bell, gave
the desired order, and, remarking that a cut
of cold meat from the servants' supper, and
a glass of warm whiskey and water, would be
all she should require, as Miss Maud did not
dine at home, resumed her interrupted nap,
and dozed off into a dream of bliss, in which
she saw herself mother-in-law to a duke.
Maud soon returned to Lady Eleanor's house

looking most captivating in a soft evening
dress of pale blue stuff, cosily covered by
her mother's sable cloak.

Lady Eleanor said in a pleased tone,
' Why, child, you have dressed and look very
nice ; " and Luce, who wore a plain black
gown, and later in the evening sat in the
back of the box, was entirely eclipsed by her
friend's radiance. Mr. Stern ey and Lord
Gossamer, an elderly man, who were of the
party, addressed all their remarks to Maud;
and Arthur Sterneyy, for the evening, forgot
the American actress and her wonderful antics.
After this Lady Eleanor used to send everyday
for Maud. Either a little queer twisted
note scrawled in pencil invited her to lunch,
or the carriage came to fetch her to the dressmakers,
where her presence was required, or
Luce would herself appear, armed with an
urgent message from her aunt. These visits
generally resulted in something agreeable
for Maud, she was taken to theatres, and to
suppers afterwards, and a gown which Lady
Eleanor had intended for Luce was bestowed
upon her, or she was solaced with a dozen
pairs of gloves or a pretty fan, as a reward
for her good nature and amiability. The

latter, usually considered a virtue, in this
instance was so decidedly an exotic, cultivated
with care and attention, that it might
rather be classed as a vice, twin-sister to that
most subtle enemy of the human race, dissimulation.
Maud played her cards well
certainly, and duly received her recompense.
Luce had at first felt a little afraid of her,
fearing angry reproaches, but when she
discovered that Maud smiled kindly, that her
words were affectionate and generous, and
her claws, if she had any, sheathed in velvet
and carefully kept out of sight, she warmed
towards her, and innocently prattled of her
prospects and her lover.

'^ You know, Maud, I felt a little ashamed

of myself at first'' she said one day, as the
two girls washed their hands amicably in
Luce's bedroom; '^ I fancied you might think
I had flattered Dick, or manoeuvred to catch
him, but, if you knew, it all came about so

simply and "

^' And charmingly, you Arcadian ; why it is

a very nice marriage for everybody ; he is
amazingly good-looking, though perhaps he
will get too stout by-and-bye, and you are
sure to be very rich; it is an excellent match''

^' An excellent match ! " the happy smile
died away on Luce's lips; 'Shy I haven't a
sixpence ; my uncle only took me in out of
charity, and Dick doesn't want money —
indeed personally I should prefer to be poor,
provided Dick could have all his comforts."

^' Well, my dear, every one calls you an
heiress (just lend me your brush, will you ?
thanks ! what a nice brush, the bristles are so
long), and of course Mr. Carrol has heard
what every one says."

'^ An heiress ! " Luce sat down aghast on
the edge of her bed.

'^ Why, you are not going to faint are you?
I wish somebody would call me an heiress,
shouldn't T have a lot of offers then, and
shouldn't I lead them a dance, just — Luce
you are a little fool ! "

^' I assure you, Maud," said Luce, seriously,
'^ you are entirely mistaken in your ideas,
and Mr. Carrol must certainly be aware of
the truth, the settlements will show that."

'' Ah, yes, of course, the settlements,"
said the other girl, laughing, and lifting the
hand holding the ivory hairbrush so as to
display the curves of her graceful figure ;
*but then he hadn't seen the settlements

when he proposed to you, he could only
guess."

^^ If I thought "Luce rose suddenly,

setting her mouth with fixed determination.

^^ You wouldn't make a scene? why, my
dear, you're the luckiest girl in the world ;
you'll have lots of money and the man you
love. Why, of course, I saw through you at
once. You were in love, abjectly, meanly
in love, with Dick Carrol from the very
beginning."

Luce hid her face.

'^ All men are mercenary, dear — that's
nothing new."

'^ And what are women, pray? " said Luce,
lifting her large, sad eyes.

'' What men make them'' promptly
answered Maud, with a harsh laugh. '^ Don't
you think I would be good, and innocent,
and stupid, as you are, dear, if I could afford
it — but I can't. I laye got a certain game to
play, and I try to play it to the best of my
ability. You must fight men with their own
weapons, if you wish to succeed. If they
cheat you, you must cheat them in return."

'' What a horrible world it is ! "

'' Not a bit horrible when one has plenty
of money."

Dick also had once called it a horrible
world, but then he regarded it from quite
another point of view ; it was horrible to
him, because he opposed his own will to
the inevitable, and beat himself hopelessly
against an iron fate. It was horrible to he*,
because she found deceit and treachery,
where her heart longed to trust and love
with all a woman's power of absolute
self-devotion.

Why do you say such things ? "

'' Because they are true. I've no patience
with people who try to throw dust in their
own eyes. Tell yourself the truth, even if
no one else cares to do it. I'll be bound you
can tell yourself harder truths than any
other person. There are certain corners in
one's own mind, certain little sins and
weaknesses, that are hidden from one's
dearest friends, but that we know — you and
I — about each other respectively. I make
myself no illusions, you had better do the
same. Illusions are the most expensive
things in the world; they cost no end of
time and money, and in the end they always

give way and let you down with a nasty
jarring flop." •

Luce did not answer. Possibly there
might be some truth in Maud's jeering
words, she thought, and yet, if it were so,
could she bear to part with her illusions?
She decided that she could not. Life's
young ideals are more precious than life,
for what is life worth without ideals? and
youth stripped of the accompaniment of
happy anticipations is only premature old
age. Luce felt years younger than Maud,
primed with her precocious wisdom.

^' I'm very glad I was brought up as I
was," continued Maud, reflectively; 'what
a mistake it is to keep girls from all contact
of real life, believing poverty to be a thing
of soups and flannel and condescending
charity ; love an affair of two superlatively
romantic hearts, instead of a matter of digestion
or temperament : for, in the first place,
love is never mutual; it is impossible to
keep two people for long exactly at the same
pitch of fever heat ; and as for truth, that's
entirely comparative, and depends upon the
accepted notion of society at the moment.
Men don't cheat at cards, but they always

lie to women. I suppose a little puritan like
you would think that wrong ? yet they all
do it. I even defy the most sober and faithful
of husbands not to indulge in a sly flirtation
if he got the opportunity, say at
Bologna, or in the Highlands, or somewhere
where he would have no chance of
being found out''

'^ Don't, pray don't, Maud 1 " cried Luce,
putting her hands to her ears. '' I don't
want to hear any more."

'^ Why not ? Is it necessary to appear in
all ones naked truth before the world ?
Need mamma say she dyes her pretty brown
hair, or I tell you that my gown is turned ?
and that I dust the drawing-room because
we don't keep a regular housemaid ? or that
I improve my figure, or anything of that
kind ? Stuflt ! every one knows there must
be some kind of pretence in the world, only
the pretence lies in pretending you don't
make a pretence. There is the difference
between you and me — I'm natural, you're
not."

Luce, her heart smarting with the pin-pricks
Maud had been so lavishly showering
upon her during the last few moments,

jumped up and declared she would not stay-any
longer, and at that instant Lady
Eleanor's voice was heard calling up the
stairs, '' Luce ! Maud ! Girls, do come down
at once; I want you direct ly.^^

The girls flew down. Lady Eleanor held
a telegram in her hand, and appeared discomposed.


^'What is it?" said Maud, sidling upto
her affectionately. '^ Won't Madame
Mousseline agree to your terms, or has she
sent home a horror of a misfit ? "

^' Much worse than that," said Lady
Eleanor, gravely, keeping her eye the while
on Luce ; ^' Dick Carrol has got into trouble.
I don't know what it is — something to do
with the election, I believe — but Mr. Higli-
view begs that we will return immediately."

What a nuisance ! " said Maud, quickly ;
'' and you had asked some people to dine tomorrow,
can't you put it off ? "

*' Impossible ! Mr. High view does not explain,
but he talks of criminal proceedings."

Luce gave a gasp, and suddenly sat down.

CHAPTER II.

Bruce meanwhile having plunged deeply
into the studies, which his visit to Highview
had somewhat interrupted, heard nothing of
these exciting events. He was just now particularly
engaged taking notes at the British
Museum, and was absent from home the
greater part of the day, much to Mrs. Flinks's
curiosity, who confided to the long-suffering
Eves that she thought he had embarked
upon a love affair. '' He's such a quiet gentleman,"
said Eves, '^ 'taint in nature likely with
him''

^' The quiet ones are the worst; poor dear
Mr. Flinks couldn't say ^ bo ' to a goose, but
he was deep and sly, and after his death I
read all his papers, and found out such
dreadful things''

'' And knowing that you're always hankering
after the men? "

'' Well, bad as they are," the widow
laughed, ^'life's but a dull business without
them."

'' It's a tough business with them," answered
Eves, sententiously.

^'You are an old marplot," said her mistress
cheerfully; ^^you haven't a bit of * go *
in you or you wouldn't pass all your life
washing up dishes."

'' Washing up in peace is a trifle better
than being cuffed over the head by a man
who has a legal right to get drunk, and make
you work for him."

'' Oh, if you are that kind of woman I've
nothing to say; I should like to see any one
cuff m(?," the widow tossed her head coquettishly."
Needless to say that when that afternoon
Dick Carrol drove up in a hansom,
carrying a small bag in his hand, the lively
widow flew to open the door, and received
him with familiar empressement.

'* Bruce out ? " said Dick, soberly, scarcely
looking at the landlady, and seeming weary
and harassed.

'^ He will be in this evening, I suppose? "

VOL. II. c

^' Then I'll wait." He tossed the cabman
his fare and walked in, while the landlady
smiling and talking sought to conduct him
into her sitting-room.

'' There is a fire here, and the newspaper,"
she said. '' Mr. Bruce does not keep up his
lire now, as he is out all day, and you might
find it chilly. Shall I bring you some tea
and a muffin ? I've very nice muffins — I think
you have tasted them already."

''N05 thank you, I don't want any tea, and
I'll go straight to Mr. Bruce's room."

'^ As you please, sir," said the landlady,
nettled.

Dick sat down in the leather arm-chair by
the table, as usual littered with the student's
books and papers, and laid his aching head
on his crossed arms. Mrs. Planks, finding
him hopelessly silent, departed, sending up
the faithful Eves, who soon struck a light and
made a brisk little fire. The dull January
day neared its close, the acrid air, yellow
and fog-laden, seemed heavy and oppressive
to Dick, whose lungs were accustomed to
breathe the fresh country atmosphere ; the
room had a disused, cold, and uncomfortable
look. Generally untidy, the furniture poor

and common, and somewhat frayed and old
as it was, yet with Bruce present, his pipe
and his talk, it had never seemed dull, nor
had Dick previously experienced the feeling
of chill and gloom which now oppressed
him. He was sorry he had refused the landlady's
tea, or rather he wished he had something
stronger, something that would warm
his chilly blood. He remembered his bag,
seized, opened it, and found therein to
his delight a small flask containing brandy.
He drank some and felt better. So much
better that he dragged the arm-chair nearer
the fire, ensconced himself more comfortably,
took out his cigar-case, and began to smoke.
He was already in a more genial frame of
mind when Bruce, slowly climbing the
stairs, turned the handle of the door and discovered
him reading an old newspaper by
the light of a bit of candle he had found on
the chimneypiece.

'' Dick ! I'm glad to see you. Have you
been here long, and why are you sitting in
the dark ? Let me ring for the lamp," he
said, holding out his hand, while he clasped
some fat books to his breast with the other.
'^ And how goes the election ? The eventful

c2

day is approaching I suppose; I know
nothing, remember, for you haven't had the
grace to write to me lately."

^^ Bruce, old fellow," said Dick, hoarsely,
'^ I'm in an awful mess, I want you to help
me."

Bruce stared.

^' What — not another woman ? "

'^ Much worse than that. I thought things
were as bad as they could be then, but this is
infinitely worse. I shall be disgraced, ruined."

^^ Disgraced, ruined — what do you mean?"

Bruce put down the books, divested himself
of his greatcoat and hat, and drew a
chair beside his friend. Dick spoke in a
slow hollow voice utterly unlike his own,
and lay back, gloomily looking up to the
ceiling, and avoiding Julian's eyes.

'' I mean what I say; the most extraordinary
things have occurred ; everything is
against me; I'm trapped, hedged in, done
for. I feel dazed and stupid. I can't tell
you how it has all come about, for I scarcely
know myself. I only know that unless
something can be done, and directly, I am
downright ruined."

'^ You have told me nothing as yet — what
is it ? "

'^ There's a warrant out against me for
theft, for obtaining money under false pretences
— I —Julian, it's a knockdown blow."

Julian laughed. And the laugh did more
good to his poor friend than the brandy, or
the cigar, or any amount of commonplace
sympathy and commiseration could have
afforded.

'^ You, Dick ? it is a practical joke, I suppose.
Why do you look so serious about it ? "

^' A practical joke ! I wish it were. It is
serious — most serious. Do you think I could
joke on such a subject ? "

And yet Dick felt that what presented
itself in so risible a fashion to Bruce could
scarcely be as grave a matter as he had
imagined.

'well, but this theft, why are you accused
of it ? "

'' From political motives, I suppose, personal
spite too, who knows ? "

'^ Then it is ? "

Sir Hilary Fenchurch."

I presume you can easily clear yourself?"

'^ Appearances are deucedly against me."

^^But the motive, my dear follow, always
seek the motive, what motive could you have
had ? "

'' They found a cause for that too."

^^ Indeed'' Bruce's eyes lost their far-off
look, the pupils dilated, he became as interested,
as in the hunt after some recondite
bit of knowledge calculated to throw clear
light upon the darkened pathway of historical
research. ^' You say ? "

'^ Well, it seems Sir Hilary gave his wife
a pearl necklace, which she took to her jewellers
at West Thorpe to get mended ; she had
broken it, and wished her husband not to
know this. Stupid fool that I was ! I undertook
to deliver the necklace, forgot all about
it, left it in my pocket, and it can't be
found. On explanation, the jewellers said
I had called for it, and of course I am responsible."


^^ I am afraid you are indeed. How could
you be so careless ? ''

''' I cannot think. Then it turned out that
Lady Fenchurch confessed to having met
me on that day, and having told me she had
left the necklace, and ''

'' The jeweller was mistaken that is all.
He must know that you would not take a
pearl necklace. What object could you possibly
have ? "

'^ Unfortunately a racehorse of mine broke
down just about that time. I had some heavy
bets to pay, and the supposition is that I
took the necklace to pay the bets "

'^ I confess this appears extremely unlikely ;
but of course you know what became of it?"

'^ I must have lost or else it was taken by
one of the servants ; I won't accuse them ;
besides, it may have been jerked out of my
pocket."

Bruce stroked his chin. ^^ But the ob ^
training money under false pretences, how do
they make that out ? "

'' Easily enough I cashed a cheque of
my aunt's a day or two afterwards. "

^' She gave it you of course," put in Bruce
eagerly.

^^She did not. My uncle gave it me, but
he says he does not remember it''

'' Your uncle ! Impossible ! A strange
lapse of memory."

^^ Isn't it ? My aunt always hated me."

^^ It's unnatural, unheard of; well, you must

defend yourself. Truth will be made
plain."

^^ You forget — the warrant''
^^ Is of no avail against an innocent man''
'^ But I have not proved my innocence''
^^ The deuce ! must a man be thought guilty
till he is proved innocent ? "

^' The long and short of it is, that I maybe
locked up in jail any day, and the mere
disgrace of that, even if I prove my innocence,
is enough to brand me for life."

And Miss Luce, what does she say."
'' Luce ! Oh, I had forgotten her. Poor
dear, she is well rid of me ; of course this
breaks her engagement."

^^ I cannot see that ; if she is a true woman
she will love you all the better for your misfortunes."


^' Even if that were so, her people would
not allow it. You can't think what a state
the county is in ; there are placards stuck
about everywhere, ' Who stole the pearl necklace
?' ' Vote for Sir Hilary Fenchurch, the
honest man ! ' and squibs, and pictures ; it
was a great card they played. I can never
go near the place again ; I hurried away and
came here, and you will let me stay a bit.

old fellow, won't you, till I know low the
land lies. I knew I could trust you. I
knew you wouldn't turn against me."

Bruce rose, took one of Dick's hands,
which hung limply over the edge of the
chair, and pressed it warmly. ^^ Certainly,
you can trust me''

He walked away a few paces, strangling
the lump that seemed to rise in his throat,
coughed once or twice, then returning said ina
cheerful tone, ^' Well, we will have some dinner
at any rate; I have an enormous appetite,
and I dare say you have not eaten much
to-day."

Dick shook his head dolefully. Eves was
then promptly summoned. She brought in
the lamp, and laid the table-cloth, which presently
gave a more lively aspect to the room,
while Bruce, slipping on his beloved and
shabby grey jacket, tried by appearing unconcerned
and cheerful to raise his friend's
spirits. Thanks to the food, which though
plain was excellently cooked, and the
warmth, and the genial kindliness and affection
which was evident through all the
student's whimsy and innocent efforts to
please and cheer, Dick gradually recovered

some of his ordinary light-heartiness,
and soon was able to talk with more ease
and equanimity.

Bruce inquired after old Mrs. Carrol.

^^ Poor dear, she was in bed when I left,"
said Dick, tenderly ; ^^ all this knocked her
up, and Aunt Vincent would scarcely let me
enter her room to say good-bye. She watched
over her like a dragon, whispering to me as
I went in, ' Now mind, if you excite your
grandmother, you will kill her. You had
better not have her death on your shoulders
with all the rest."

'' And what did your grandmother say ? "

^^ Very little ; she squeezed my hand hard
and looked at me with her kind old eyes,
and when I was going out she said, ' God
bless you, Dick ! '' I wouldn't have
pained her for the world — poor, poor old
Granny ! " Dick buried his face in his hands.

^'She trusts you, Dick, or she wouldn't
have said ' God bless you ; " take heart."

^^ I have been ungrateful, I know, and taken
her money without any thanks, and let her
think of me, and plan and stint herself in
her little fancies and luxuries, to save forme
; but never ! no, Julian, never would I

have stolen her money, or cheated my
aunt ! "

'' Of course not ; nobody who knows you
believes it."

*^I think Aunt Vincent does, really; but
how that maudlin ass, my uncle, could say
he forgot — I can't account for it''

^^ I can — his wife's influence. You have
often told me he was afraid of her''

'' Yes ; he stood in mortal fear — pah !
isn't it contemptible ? "

'^ Human nature, at its worst, is contemptible
; the more wonder that we care so
much as we do for the opinion of the many."

'^ I can't philosophise : honestly, I do care,
awfully what people say of me. How do
you think Luce will take it ? "

'' You have written to her ? "

'^ Not a line ; I didn't know what to say.
She will believe me guilty like the rest, and
Lady Eleanor is as proud as a peacock."

^'Yoa should have asked her to trust you."

'^ What ! against appearances ? "

^' Certainly — you asked me."

^^ But you are a man, and my friend."

Believe me, if you do trust a woman,
trust her thoroughly; put her on her honour;

appeal to her fine feelings ; she will always
rise to the occasion. I think, myself, that
Miss Luce will strove your stain chest ally''

^^ I could not ask a girl to go against the
wishes of her people, it wouldn't be fair; and
what have I got to offer her. You know as
well as I do, that, though nominally my
grandmother's heir, everything is in her own
power. She may leave me a beggar — it will
not be Mrs. Vincent's fault if she doesn't —
disgraced, ruined. Why should a woman
care even to speak to me again ? "

'' Not all women I grant you, but some
might, a small minority, and I believe Miss
Luce to be in that minority."

' She is unselfish enough for anything, but
she would be a fool to stick to me now. If
I get out of this affair I shall emigrate to
Australia — try to be forgotten "

^^ Meanwhile, Sir Hilary walks over for the
county; how about all your political aspirations,
your plans of usefulness ? "

'* Every man for himself. I must think
of myself now."

shave you retired, then, from the contest?"


'^ 1 have done nothing ; I left it all to my
agent."

^' And he will fill his pockets ? "

Very likely ; I don't care." Dick relapsed
into gloom.

^'And because Sir Hilary, a fond and
foolish old man, gratifies a bit of jealous
spite (jealous love for his wife is at the bottom
of all this, I'll be bound. Wasn't the Trojan
war kindled for a woman's sake ?), your
nineteenth century Helen spoils an election."


'' And a man's whole prospects in life."

'' Exactly. It is the same thing — quality
the same, quantity differs. Well, because of
this hit of spite, justifiable enough in electioneering
times, you are going to give up
everything, hurry to the dogs, and cry
Peccavi ! ''

I can't help myself."

^' Was there ever an incurable ill? Death
is the only irrevocable thing, and all philosophers
are agreed that death is not an evil
a mere state of transition."

'' I feel as if I could cut my throat ! "
^' To-day — and tomorrow when the sunshines,
and Miss Luce writes you a pretty

letter, and the accusation falls to the ground,
you will wish to live for ever''
'^ Pooh ! you don't understand."
^' Yes, I do." Bruce's voice grew low and
mellow. **I have had a hard life myself; have
known poverty and struggles and disappointments.
I have the nervous temperament
which, sometimes lifted above the earth, innumerable
times falls heavily back in miserable
depression, the dyspeptic tendencies of the
student who neglects his digestion, and
grudges himself the luxury of fresh air.
I have few friends and no protection or interest
; for all love and family ties I have an
old mother who is plain and dowdy and
antiquated and frail enough to die any
day, but who is sacred and perfect in my
eyes because of her belief in and affection
for me; and yet, though I am poor, and
forced to work hard, and have no particular
prospects, I never wish to die. I am worse
off than you, and yet you talk of dying."
To live disgraced is unbearable."
^' Why should you live disgraced ? This
cloud will pass away. You will learn to
smile as you think of your distress to-day.
Now, Dick, sleep it off; here is a bed-candle.

You will speak differently tomorrow."


And yet, when Dick reluctantly retired in
search of the slumbers his exhausted mental
and physical nature required so urgently,
Julian Bruce, moving with the cautious
quiet Steps of a careful woman, sat far into
the night, planning, thinking, and writing
letters. He had succeeded in restoring in
some degree his friend's courage, but at the
bottom of his own heart he was terribly
anxious.

CHAPTER III.

Lady Eleanor invited Maud to accompany
her on the return to Highview Castle, and
the latter, who was glad of an opportunity
for a junket, and ready for any agreeable
emergency, gladly consented. Who could
tell what might not result? she might make
some desirable acquaintance, might render
herself so necessary to Lady Eleanor as to
induce that great lady to adopt, or at least
chaperone, her, throw the glamour of her
magnificent presence and countenance around
her, and cause people, in the fact of her ladyship's
bosom friend, to forget the existence
of penniless Miss Hardfast. Maud believed
in the power of the unforeseen. Pleasant
things must be in store for her, and the
unexpected would resolve into the desirable.
So Maud joyfully packed her trunks, kissed

her mother without great regret, leaving
her to a serious study of the house-bills, and
a deep consideration of the way in which
expenses could be still further cut down,
and a few disagreeable creditors disposed of,
and departed with her maid for the stately
regions of Highview Castle. The three
ladies travelled in a compartment specially
reserved, which an affable guard, duly tipped
with a half-crown, locked and unlocked
with enormous ceremony. In the next
carriage sat the two maids and the footman,
chatting merrily and sucking oranges to
while away the time. The footman got out
at every station to inquire if her ladyship
required anything, and her ladyship usually
did require something. Once it was a newspaper,
precisely the one she wished for
having been omitted from the pile on her
lap ; once it was some water for Squib, the
little toy-terrier, who had barked himself
hoarse out of the window at the hedges and
trees as they flew past ; once it was to send
a telegram to Mr. Highview, and once to
get the hot water tin refilled. Lady Eleanor
was nervous, and her nerves found vent in
extra fidgetiness and exactions. She was

VOL. II. B

ignorant of what awaited her, and she
resented her ignorance. Mr. Highview
merely telegraphed to her to return ; he had
omitted to explain anything, and satisfied
none of her legitimate curiosity. She was
not accustomed to be ordered about in
such fashion, and she chafed at her helplessness.
Luce leant back in a corner very
quiet and very silent ; and Maud, on whom
fell the whole burden of entertainment,
sought in vain to arrest Lady Eleanor's
attention by little stories, or allusions to the
news and scandal contained in the papers.

'^ So I see Mrs. Love joy is to be married
at last. Poor Colonel Jones ! "

I wonder if Mr. Highview will have
remembered to send the carriage — ten to one
he has forgotten," sighed Lady Eleanor.

^' Just listen, is not this a delicious description
of the dress the Princess wore "

'^ Criminal proceedings ! what can that
mean, Maud? I thought a criminal was
some low kind of creature — like a tramp ora
navvy."

'^ Let me see, there was Tichborne," said
Maud, reflectively, sand Warren Hastings;
I read something about him in history "

'' History! that's all over and done with.
There are no great criminals now — everything
is vulgar and commonplace. And how
a gentleman, heir to a large fortune, could
have found it necessary to do anything
wrong — I mean vulgarly wrong— (peccadilloes,
little fashionable esclandres don't count)
what do you think, Luce ? "

^' I don't think anything — we must wait
till we know the facts."

^^ That is so like you, Luce" — Lady Eleanor
drew her furs closer with a pettish movement
; '^ you always talk like a professor of
logic — ' till tve know the facts ' — why we
can't wonder when we know, of course — but
then you are dreadfully impassive."

'^ You must make allowances for Luce,"
whispered Maud in Lady Eleanor s ear ; ^ ^ she
is so fond of him, you know."

Luce heard the whisper and shrank within
herself.

It was very inconsiderate of Mr. High-views''
proceeded Lady Eleanor, querulously :
'' there is the trousseau half ordered, and
what the tradespeople will think of my sudden
departure, leaving them all to their own
devices, I am sure I can't imagine."

1) 2

^^ You can write to them when you arrive''

^^ Of course, no one ever minds what
trouble T am put to," said Lady Eleanor,
crossly.

'^ I will write the letters, dear Lady
Eleanor*'

Upon my word you are a very obliging
girl, Maud. Pray hold Squib for a few
minutes: he scratches holes with his little
paws in my fur." Maud held Squib and
was forced to put up gracefully with the
havoc he soon made of the sable cloak she
had prudently taken with her.

The carriage had not been forgotten ;
another footman met Lady Eleanor at the
station, and when the train stopped handed
her a note from her husband. The note was
very short and unsatisfactory and told her
only that the writer had ridden into West
Thorpe on business, and would be back about
six o'clock. ^^ Four o'clock only! " said Lady
Eleanor, consulting her watch, 'ewe shall
have two hours more to wait before we know
what it's all about. Yes, drive on Jenkins,
there is nothing else."

Lady Eleanor found the drawing-room
looking as beautiful as ever. The palms had

even grown a little, Maud declared, and
sweefc-smelling hyacinths and narcissi filled
the jardinieres and silver vases on the
tables. ^' Mould is not a bad gardener," said
Lady Eleanor, looking round complacently ?
'^ here. Luce, do you see, that is the very
pale pink camellia we admired at Lady
Prankish's. Why, where' s the child ? ''

Gone upstairs, I think," said Maud,
quietly ; '' she is nervous and upset."

^^ Nervous!" sneered Lady Eleanor; "girls
in my day didn't know the meaning of
nerves."

Ah, but you are different ; there are not
many people like yoti.^^

Somewhat mollified her ladyship read her
letters, examined the bill of fare, rang for
the housekeeper and gave her sundry orders,
then drank tea and eat heartily of buttered
cake, after which she felt equal to meeting
Mr. Highview, and hearing a full, true, and
particular account of all that had occurred.

Mr. Highview dismounted at the stables
and hurried quickly into his wife's sitting-room,
where he found her sitting with Maud
over the tea-table.

Shall I go ? " said Maud, alertly, jumping
up.

'^ Certainly not, my dear; I look upon you
quite as one of the family ; you can hear
everything'

Maud subsided into her chair with a smile
she certainly had every intention of hearing
what was to be said.

A most unlucky affair — upset me extremely.
I'm very glad you are home again''
said Mr. Highview, embracing his wife : the
latter could not afford time to be affectionate.

^' You have alarmed us all most dreadfully
— quick — don't lose a moment and tellus."


Mr. Highview proceeded to explain, Lady
Eleanor interrupting him every moment with
questions and exclamations.

'' Did he really steal the necklace ? " she
asked, dropping her voice mysteriously.

^' Certainly not. I do not believe it for an
instant."

But appearances are sadly against him."

Well, it has lost him the election; a very
mean trick on the part of his opponents, I
must say."

'' And disagreeable for Luce."

(C

Poor Luce ! by the way, where is she ?
I hope the dear child hasn't taken it terribly
to heart."

'' Pooh ! She's very well quit of such
a wretch. Of course the engagement is
over ? "

'^ Had we not better wait ? "

^^ Wait — when the young man is under a
cloud. You have no consideration for your

niece."

'^ Well, I am sure, my dear," excusing himself,
^ ^ I only wish to do what is best — the
poor girl must not be made unhappy."

^^A marriage that does not come off is no
great affair, and in this case not an ounce of
blame can attach to the girl — you don't suppose
women generally marry their first lover,
do you ? Remember, Luce has only been
out one year — she'll get over this directly
and make just as good a match, I'll be bound
but the interests of the county will suffer ;
you couldn't stand yourself, could you ? "

*^ Certainly not — besides, no one but Sir
Hilary has a chance now."

^'It is most provoking, most provoking''
Lady Eleanor tapped her heel against the

floor, and rested her chin on her hand meditatively.


^' Nothing to be done — nothing — nobody
I insist on your standing, Mr. High view;
it can do no harm, it may do good. We
shall have a claim on the Government if you
win the election, and perhaps they will make
you a peer — come, cheer up, believe me they
will listen to you, and you have several
days still to spare'"

Maud now slipped from the room and ran
up stairs to Luce, whom she found restlessly
pacing backwards and forwards.

^' He has come — Mr. High view has come.
Oh, it is dreadful. Luce — Mr. Carrol has
stolen a necklace of Lady Fenchurch's (they
always said he admired her, so it was doubly
queer), and embezzled money, and he has
gone away, and the election is lost, and Lady
Eleanor is in such a state''

'^ Gone ! " Only one word seemed to
pierce an entrance into Luce's mind. '^ Gone,
did you say, where, not with ? "

"Not with any one, you little fool," laughed
Maud, stealing a look at herself in the glass.
Why he has only made himself scarce, 
wisely too, while there is

such a hue and cry after him. I suppose he
will come back some day, but just at present
discretion is the better part of valour."

^^ Maud, how can you laugh — isn't it terrible
? "

^* I dare say he will clear himself, people
exaggerate so; meanwhile, you had better dry
your eyes, for there is no chance for you."

'' How do you mean? "

^^ Lady Eleanor has decided to break off
the engagement — I should not be surprised
if she has found you another husband
al ready "

'' What ? break off the engagement ! ''

Yes, you white-faced ninny ; don't look
so surprised, and open your big eyes ; how'
can you marry a man who is accused of
goodness knows what dreadful things ? "

^^ But he is innocent ! "

'^ lliat we cannot tell — there is a slur upon
him now, that even you, dear little fond
creature, cannot remove — your love for him
will be finely tried, I expect.

^^I shall not change," said Luce, very
calmly.

^'No; but Lady Eleanor is mistress here,
remember."

^'I must see him; I must hear from his
own lips what he wishes ; I shall not give
him up till then," said Luce, passionately.

^' Bravo ! Luce, I declare you show plenty
of courage. But if I were you I would not
presume too much upon it; you must give in
sooner or later — why struggle ? "

^' Have you any idea where he is to be
found ? "

'^ None whatever, and if I had I should
not tell you. There is not a bit of use in
stirring up mud."

^' Where can he be — will his grandmother
know ? " continued Luce, as if to herself,
'' poor, poor old lady, it will kill her. Oh
Maud, she was so proud of him, so devoted
to him "

^^He certainly seems a nice specimen of

5?

a young man —

^^Itis some hideous mistake, I am sure.
Oh Maud, dear Maud, do help me to unravel
it. Dick is a gentleman, he is incapable of
anything mean — "

^' He has got a good advocate in you at
least," said Maud, almost roused to admiration
of her friend's constancy ; "but it doesn't
pay to take up the losing cause — the poor

fellow has evidently no luck — just at such a
time, too, it was hard lines, I must say "

^' I can't desert him, at any rate."

You poor dear, I don't believe you will
be consulted."

^' My uncle is a just man. It is not just
to trample on the unfortunate. Besides, if
I do not show my trust in Dick how can I
expect it of any one else. Maud, dear
Maud, don't you forsake me at least''

'^ I won't forsake you," answered Maud,
shortly, " but I can't persuade you into
folly."

I will be careful, I will not be foolish.
Go down, dear, now — go and talk to my
uncle ; find out all you can — do, there's a
kind girl ; " then with a pardonable touch of
flattery she added, "you are so clever, you
know."

Maud departed, and Luce was left alone.
She drew near the window, clasped her
hands, and looked out into the calm, clear
night. She did not falter or hesitate in her
thoughts, the path lay distinctly before her.
She had now an opportunity of testing her
love, of proving the truth of her protestations,
of earning the eternal gratitude of the

man to whom she was engaged. If she
could but gain one kind look, one loving
word, she would be amply repaid. Men's
hearts in time of trouble were soft and
malleable — she might effect an entrance into
Dick's so complete that no effort could dislodge
her. A kind of humble thankfulness
filled her soul that she should have been
chosen to take the part of comforter. It
suited with her gentle nature, tenacious in
its gentleness, innocently trustful, unfaltering
in its simple faith. The first thing to
be done was to place herself in communication
with him. But how ? He was not at
Long Leam. A letter addressed there might
lie for an uncertain period forgotten on the
table. He was not likely to leave an address
with his Uncle Vincent. Where could he be ?
in which direction was he likely to go for
comfort and shelter ? As she thus pondered
she remembered Bruce. Naturally Dick's
first impulse would be to take refuge with
his kind, unworldly friend, to whom ordinary
prejudices were as nothing. She must
write to Bruce. Drawing pen and ink towards
her, she composed her letter.

^' Dear Mr. Bruce.

*^ I have just heard that Mr. Carrol is in
some dreadful trouble. I am sure that you,
his best friend, are with him. Will you
send me his address, and news of his welfare ;
and assure him, though this is almost unnecessary,
that I am truly unhappy, and
entirely unchanged. Pray forgive my
troubling you,

And, believe me,

'yours very truly,
'luce Windermere''

When the letter was written and stamped,
Luce rang for her maid, and desired that it
might be sent at once to the post. He must
receive the letter tomorrow, and if he had
ever doubted her he could doubt no longer.
Luce, happy in her trustfulness, astonished
her uncle and aunt that evening by the calmness
of her behaviour, and her appearance
at dinner with an unruffled brow.

She is a heartless girl," confided Lady
Eleanor to Maud, who scarcely knew what to
think, the dignity of sustained resolution
being an incomprehensible mystery to her.
Mr. Highview, who received Luce's earnest
feverish entreaties to be allowed to drive

over and visit old Mrs. Carrol on the morrow,
thought differently.

^^ Just lend me the dogcart, uncle — you
need not spare me a groom, or I can ride
if more convenient."

^' Will it not be painful to you, child ? "
He hesitated, feeling compassion for the
slight young girl going out bravely to her
fate. ^^ Why should you wish it ? No one
can expect it of you."

^' What! not Grranny? (you know I always
call her Granny.) She will expect it. Pray,
pray let me go ! I shall be far more unhappy
if you keep me here."

Mr. Highview glanced towards his wife.
She was busy talking to Maud — they were
planning a new table decoration. He heard
Luce's short quick breathing, and noticed
her eye, brilliant with feverish impatience.

'' Let me go, please!" she said again, with
agonized entreaty.

<■<' Very well, dear — start before breakfast.
Sultan shall be saddled and ready for you ;
only I think, perhaps, you had better say
nothing about it to your aunt."

Luce thanked him with a silent kiss.

CHAPTER IV.

As soon as it was light Luce crept downstairs
and went round to the stables. Sultan was
ready, champing the bit in his stall — the
groom approached touching his hat. ^' I am
to go with you, miss, was Mr. Highview's
orders."

^^ Very well," said Luce, not displeased at
the escort ; 'make haste and put me on — I amin
a hurry."

She mounted lightly, and with a bound
Sultan left the stable-yard. He snorted with
pleasure when he found himself in the fresh
morning air, controlled only by his mistress's
light hand, while they cantered along the
dewy lanes. The weather had been unusually
mild, a spring-like scent of earth and
leaves floated in the air, here and there primroses
glimmered under the hedges, and busy

rooks cawed and fluttered about the freshly
sod. Luce experienced a sense of
pleasurable relief — the long easy swing of
the horse's stride suited her irritable nerves.
She was in action, she was straining towards
the desired end, she was doing what he would
have wished, she was sure ; how far preferable
to the time she must otherwise have spent
waiting helplessly in Lady Eleanor's close,
heavily-scented drawing-room, while the
hours crawled slowly along and no news
came. The sixteen miles were accomplished
without fatigue to mistress or horse, and
Luce rode into the stable-yard at Long Lean
as the clock struck ten. At this hour Mrs.
Carrol was usually in her sitting-room, alone.
Luce could not, she thought, have chosen a
more auspicious moment. She dismounted,
and walked round to the hall-door. The
grey-haired butler smiled and seemed surprised
when he saw who was his early
visitor.

"' Is it you, Miss'' he said, with the respectful
familiarity of an old retainer.

^' Yes. Can I see Mrs. Carrol?" Luce
stepped into the hall, which seemed to her
dear and homelike.

'mrs. Carrol!" said the butler, hesitating
; ^* not Mrs. Vincent Carrol ? "

^'No, no, Granny; old Mrs. Carrol."

^' She is in bed," he said, putting on the
conventional visage of woe.

*^ She is not ill, I hope ? "

^^ Well, I don't rightly know; but no one
sees her except Mrs. Vincent ; you will have
to ask her leave first."

^' Then ask her leave, quick; say I have
ridden over on purpose to see Mrs. Carrol,
and I cannot go away without speaking to
her."

^'I will see what 1 can do," said the servant,
^' but won't you step into the drawing-room
? There's no fire though, I am sorry to
say," he added, '' but we're all upset like
now."

I don't want a tire, said Luce, ^' I shall
stay here; only make haste and give my
message."

How still the house was, the newspapers
lay untouched on the table and the vases
were empty of their flowers. The old butler
seemed strange too, as if he had forgotten
his business.

Mrs. Carrol ill, Dick absent, the terriers

VOL. II. E

no longer running out to greet her, Dick's
hats no longer hanging in the hall, or sounds
of whistling and laughter reaching her ears —
it was a terrible change. A sensation as of
death clutched at her heart in a chill throb
of terror — what could it mean, what had
happened ?

She sat down cold with dread, listening
with all her might for some human sound to
break the terrible silence. After a few
moments the butler returned.

'mrs. Vincent says, madam, that old Mrs.
Carrol is unable to see any one but that she.
will speak to you if you will please to walk
upstairs." Luce bowed her head and followed,
the old man silently to Granny's
study. There at Granny's own table,
covered with memoranda and papers, sat
Mrs. Vincent in stiffly bristling cap. She
scarcely rose as Luce entered. All the
chairs were empty now, and the books which
used to litter them piled away in a corner.
She held out a limp hand.

^' This is an early visit," she said, dryly ;
did not you know Granny was ill?"

*' No, 1 came as soon as 1 heard ''

Of the unfortunate circumstances — very

proper and kind of you I am sure. You
were attached to the wretched young man."

'^ Do you mean Dick ?" said Luce, warmly;
^^ pray do not speak like that, before me."

^^ Ah! " Mrs. Vincent coldly and severely
criticised the slight figure in the dark blue
habit ; and, looking at the firm pale face and
large gleaming eyes before her, she said, after
a pause, ^' You are infatuated still, I see. Well,
few people expected it. I confess though
that Dick Carrol never imposed upon me.
As for his poor grandmother, the shock and
the grief have killed her."

^^Do you mean she is dying?" Luce
started up.

'not exactly, but she is very old, and no
one can foresee the consequences. Fortunately
I am here ; I can take the post of duty,
and reconcile her soul to God ; she is very
restless, and I fear "

Let me go to her, poor, poor Granny ! "
Luce put both her hands together entreatingly.
^

'' It is scarcely possible, I am afraid; she
must not be agitated ; the sight of a stranger
would harm her."

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF

*^ I, a stranger to Granny ? You do not
know how I love her."

'^ 1 can make a pretty shrewd guess I
fancy*' said Mrs. Vincent with a sneer.
Luce thought of Granny lying there sad and
alone, separated from her only by a door,
and nursed by the unsympathetic touch of
her daughter-in-law, and her heart yearned
towards the old lady.

'' I promise not to agitate her," said Luce,
quite humbly (Mrs. Vincent was having her
revenge, and she thoroughly enjoyed it);
^^ just let me give her a kiss''

'^ A kiss! Do you think that will be of
any benefit to her. Poor thing ! Her days
are numbered. I am just putting a little
order into things ; latterly she had grown
very lax in business matters. I have found
frightful extravagance in everything — waste
in the servants' hall ''

Luce remembered the butler's apology
for the absence of fire in the drawing-room,
and supposed that the omission was a part of
the new rule of economy. '^ Where is your
husband ? " faltered Luce, who foresaw a dim
vista of heartbreaking changes.

'vincent? Oh, he is gone into West
Thorpe to meet Sir Hilary."

^' Sir Hilary!"

^^ Yes, about the warrant ; he is anxious it
should be served at once. Vincent very
kindly suggested a little delay — in the
family, you know, one does not want to be
hard — still, it does not do to appear as if one
ignored the disgrace that has fallen upon us
through the behaviour of this poor misguided
man."

This time Luce did not say, ^ ^ Do not
speak like that before mf>."

Mrs. Vincent's relentlessness, the sternness
of miserable facts, crushed the speech
out of her ; she could only look a silent
protest.

^^ Vincent and I have a great deal to do.
All these family disgraces have naturally
grieved us extremely. I have sent for the
children here, and we eh all try to make
ourselves valuable to poor Granny while she
lives, and to restore the honour of the house
as far as that is possible''

^^ Where is Dick?" said Luce, in a low
voice.

What ! Hasn't he written to you ? I

suppose he was ashamed ; still, that was hard
upon you, wasn't it ? You were so fond of
him."

Mrs. Vincent smiled unpleasantly, and
fixed her cold grey eyes on Luce's face.
The girl jumped up ; her tender heart resented
the hypocritical sorrow which veneered
Mrs. Vincent's real feelings of triumph; her
cheek flushed, and her voice shook with
emotion. '^ I think you are very cruel," she
said, sho gloat over any one's distress and
misery, and to be so ready to believe the
worst of your own relations ; perhaps some
day you may need kindness yourself''

^' Young lady," said Mrs. Vincent, rising
also, ^^if you only come to find fault with
your elders, I think the sooner you go home
the better — shall I ring for your horse ? "

Luce promptly recognised the error she
had fallen into in allowing her feelings to
triumph over her judgment, and, altering
her tone, she said :

^' Mrs. Vincent, I beg your pardon ; but
feel for me a little — I am very unhappy, and
I should so like to see dear Granny ; please
don't deny me this favour ; it will not hurt
her, I promise you."

Mrs. Vincent was about to reply in the
negative, when a gentle tinkle broke the
silence. ^^ Granny's bells' said Mrs. Vincent,
listening ; ^^ I wonder what she wants ;
wait a little, I will go and see."

^^ Tell her I am here," urged Luce, as
Mrs. Vincent's cap-ribbons fluttered through
the doorway.

Presently Mrs. Vincent returned. '^ You
can go in," she said, shortly, " only just fora
minute, though ; it seems she heard your
voice."

Luce needed no further permission, and
glided quickly through the door, which Mrs.
Vincent gingerly held half open. Granny's
room was shrouded in darkness. Luce
waited an instant on the threshold to accustom
her eyes to the absence of light, then
made her way slowly up to the shadowy
four-post bedstead in the corner.

granny!" — 'luce!" The loving old
arms were tightly clasped round her ; the
kind old voice murmured a whispered welcome.
'' My dear girl, I am so glad, so
thankful, you are here."

'^ I came as soon as I could ; we only
arrived from London last night."

'' I knew it, dear. I never doubted your
heart."

'^ You're not ill, Granny?"

^'No, child, not ill; just a little weak
and dizzy, when I get up. You see, I'm old,
as Mrs. Vincent says, I cannot expect anything
else, at my age."

^^ Ah, Mrs. Vincent — does she take care of
you ? "

'' Excellent care. She doses me with
tonics and soups ; my body ought to get
strong, but it is the spirit. Luce, that is sick,
I'm afraid."

'' Poor Granny ! '' Luce clasped her protecting.


^^ Aunt Vincent says I fret. I 'suppose it is
wrong, but I can't help it. Oh, Luce, my
boy — my boy."

^^ He is innocent!" said Luce, firmly.
Granny broke into a sob.

^^ Yes, of course ; if they would only believe
it."

'^ You mustn't be ill, Granny. You must
get up : assert yourself; it would grieve him,
you know."

*' Yes ; do you think I could?" said the
old lady, doubtfully.

ei

Certainly ; wouldn't you like some light
what do you do all day in this dark
room ? "

'nothing. Mrs. Vincent says I must
not read. I asked her for Homer. Well,
perhaps she was right ; the Greek letters
might hurt my eyes ; but Keats or Shakespeare
— they couldn't hurt me, I think, and
it is worse to have only your thoughts for
company. I think one must be very young
to be happy in one's own society long."

Luce moved to the window, and threw
back part of the shutter. The room faced
the south, and a gleam of glorious sunlight
burst into the darkened space. ^^ It is quite
a beautiful day," said Luce, '^ and there are
snowdrops on the terrace, and the golden
yews look like burnished gold. I wish you
could go out, Grranny."

^^ So do I, but never mind; tell me some
more, Luce ; have the gardeners mowed the
lawn ? "

'^ Yes, Granny ; it looks as smooth as
velvet, and the lake is so still and clear, and
I really think the waterfowl seem more
lively than ever."

^^ It is a fine place," replied Granny, turning

on her pillows, '^ and I have tried my
best to keep it nice."

'^ It is nice, it's beautiful ; and do you
know I think everything misses you now
you are ill. Do try and get up again soon."

'' Do you think so ? " Granny opened the
calm blue eyes she had shut wearily. ^^Does
any one miss me ? I thought they were just
waiting for my death ; I am old, and cumber
the ground ; I ou2:ht to be cut down."

granny!" Luce hurried back, knelt
down, and kissed the old lady's hand. '' We
cannot spare you ; you must live — for Dick's
sake ; he has no friend but you."

^^ Ah, child, you are right ; and to think
that I had forgotten this." ' She smiled
sweetly, then a spasm crossed the delicate
face, lying white and fair among the big
pillows. ^' Where is he— how is he ? Mrs.
Vincent will not allow me to speak of him.
She says he has disgraced us."

^^ Live, dear Granny, live to be proud of
him. I don't know where he is; but of
this I am sure, he is neither a coward nor a
liar ; say you believe it — don't listen to Mrs.
Vincent — she wants your money."

^^ Yes — hush ! " — the old lady looked

anxiously round — ^^ she might hear, she has
such sharp ears ; when I am tired and want
to sleep she tries to persuade me to alter my
will — but I can't. Luce; only sometimes I
feel weary and wish it were all over. You
have done me so much good, child ; you
will come again, won't you, soon ? "

"^ Yes, yes, dear Granny, indeed I will."

^' I think you must go now, or Mrs. Vincent
will be suspicious. I wish she were
not quite so mistrustful. It is a little trying,
but she means well — she means very well."
Granny sighed. ^^ Kiss me child, kiss me
again," she added, fervently, 'There is life
in your lips."

^' It is the* love at the bottom of my heart.
Granny, you feel its warmth — now don't
despond."

*^No — but perhaps you had better close
the shutter — aunt Vincent "

sand shut out all the sunshine when
you are so fond of it — no, no, aunt Vincent
shall not keep you in the dark."

The very last things Luce saw as she left
the room, were Granny's happy calm smile
and the eyes that beamed with gratitude and
affection upon her. Fired with new courage

lie again proceeded to face Mrs. Vincent,
whose table was piled higher than ever with
bills and papers and cheque-books, into the
latter of which she seemed to have made
some considerable inroads.

'^I don't think Grranny is so ill," said Luce,
quietly; '^ she wants light and sunshine and
air, and to be cheered ; it is very bad for
her to lie like that in the dark."

'' Much light is injurious to the eyes of an
old person," sententiously observed Mrs.
Vincent. " Granny has tried her eyes far
too much already with those publishing


'^ But it is so sad and so lonely for her."

'^ At her age she should make her peace
with God. She is not careful of her soul,
she is very lax in her opinions, she reads
philosophical works and books that are not
orthodox "

'^ Granny is very good," said Luce, standing
-firm and erect. " I don't know what
you call orthodox, but I know she is a
Christian."

*' And can't bear the athanasian Creed,

and likes to read about Buddhism as if

t were the Bible. If she had brought up

Dick differently, carefully, without spoiling
him, as with God's help I have brought up
all my children, this distress would have
been spared her. Quiet and silence are the
best medicines for her now''

*' They will kill her," said Luce, quickly.
Tut, tut, child. You don't understand.
Leave Granny to me ; I shall do my duty."

I am coming back again," said Luce,
with a touch of defiant firmness. '* Granny
wishes it."

We shall see — if her pulse is higher, or
her face flushed, or she does not take her
beef tea as well as usual, you will not be
admitted, I warn you''

Luce made no further observations. To
dispute with Mrs. Vincent was like attempting
to knock one's shins against a granite
crag — the shins must suffer. She shook
hands formally and descended the stairs.
The old butler, looking more grey and shaky
than ever, timidly inquired how she had
fared.

^'Did you see her, did you see the old
lady?" he asked, with anxious quavering
voice.

'* Yes, I saw her," Luce answered in her
clear treble ; '' yes — I saw her."

'' Is she very ill — is she going to die /"'
he inquired in a whisper.

No, she is better."

Thank God ! Then they'' pointing with
his finger upstairs, '' will not be masters here
just yet."

*' No, I think not. Be very attentive to
Mrs. Carrol ; she must want for nothing with
old servants like you''

Bless you, we do what we can for her ;
why, we worship the very ground she treads
on ; she is a good lady, she is — if anything
bad came to her, why the whole parish
would turn out like one man and follow her
funeral."

'' That's right," said Luce, hopefully ;
' you ought to appreciate her, for there are
not many like her in the world."

'^ You are coming again, Miss ? " the old
butler said, following her to the door.

'soh, yes, very soon." Then Luce, with
the hel]) of her groom, swung herself into
the saddle, and trotted off.

It was late in the afternoon when she
reached Highview ; she was tired and hungry,
for she had had no luncheon.

Mrs. Vincent, in her energetic notions of
economy, never remembered the wants of
others.

But she was calm and satisfied. She had
done her duty, and she had brought a ray of
moral sunshine into poor old Granny's life.
Mr. Highview had entreated Lady Eleanor
to make no comment on Luce's absence, and
for once she obeyed his wishes and spared
the girl. Maud was not so thoughtful ; she
plied Luce with questions, and pretended a
vast deal of interest and anxiety. Luce answered
the questions as well as she could,
and tried to believe as much of the interest
as she dared.

CHAPTER V.

What did I tell you ? " exclaimed Julian
Bruce, joyfully, one fine morning, dangling
a letter in front of Dick's sleepy eyes. Dick
was in bed ; sorrow promoted sleep in his
case and he rose late, so that Julian usually
completed two or three hours' work before
his friend's waking.

'^ What is it, who is it from ? " asked
Dick, turning lazily on his elbow.

^' Why, from her, from the woman I believed
in," said Julian, spreading out the
letter which Luce had sent him. '^ Now
what did I say ? Are you not ashamed of
despairing when even a girl trusts you implicitly
? "

'' All the worse for her," muttered Dick,
diving again beneath the bed-clothes.

Come, nonsense, rouse yourself ; this
letter must be answered, and by you."

*^ I am not going to tie up an innocent
woman's life with my wretched existence."

You do not mean to succumb utterly.
Surely such a woman is too precious to be
lost ? ''

'^ The more precious, the easier things
are to lose."

*' Not a true woman's heart. Dick, where
is your ambition ? "

'^ Ambition ! I haven't any. At least, not
your kind of ambition. I can't see the use
of toiling and slaving as you do, frittering
away youth, and denying yourself every
atom of pleasure for the sake of finding out
some stupid bit of history, or of giving lazy ,
people a lecture. The world turns over andover
again, and everything rights itself without
any one's help. Now my ambition is of
a different kind. I want to live my own life,
troubling no one, and bothered by nobody,
and that's just what seems impossible. It's
awfully hard."

^^ It is the rule of life, no man can. live to
himself."

Oh, I know that is the doctrine of bigots
and ascetics. I don't believe in asceticism."

VOL. II. F

'^ After all/^ said Julian, seating himself,
*' the value of everything is relative. To
you and men of your sort, for instance, the
value of wine, of diamonds, of riches, is
nothing in itself, but only because by them
you are enabled to outshine your friends.
Now. the value of everything material is nil
to me. I want fame because it is the best
thing I know of. I don't care if I am appreciated
or valued now, because I know my
work is good, and right, and necessary, and
will live."

'' Your reward is in the future. Well, I
don't want any reward ; I don't wish to look
forward, and I don't care to look back, but I
should like to enjoy the present, and enjoy
my life as I understand it. Where is the
harm of that ? "

'' No abstract harm, perhaps, but the
thing is impossible. To return to this letter,
if you do not answer it you will make a fond,
honest, true heart unhappy."

^' Why does she care for me ? I am
wretched enough in all conscience— what
does she want of me ? "

'' Dick, where is your chivalry ? "

^^ Chivalry! We have outlived those times.

It is every man for himself now. A woman's
reputation is fair game for any rascal who
chooses to tear it in pieces. No ; you must
appeal to something else, Julian, if you wish
to make an impression."

Do you mean you could deceive the
woman who trusted in you ? "

'^ I mean nothing ; Luce might have saved
me had circumstances been different. The
best thing she can do now is to forget my
existences'

'^ Shall I write to her to this effect ? " said
Julian, in a cold and serious voice.

^' Julian, bear with me a little. I am not
accustomed yet to feeling that every one
despises me''

^« Why need you care what the world
thinks ? Only God and your own conscience
signify."

I am not like you. I do care what the
world thinks."

'' You can't even act up to the philosophy
which tells you to live your life without
caring for any one else. Oh Dick, you disappoint
me''

Why do you expect anything ? "

'' You are right ; it is foolish. However, as

e2

I do not intend to leave you to your own
devices, I am going to answer this letter.
Now get up quickly and help me."

In addition to the note from Luce, Julian
received a letter from Mr. Highview, stating
that he should call in the afternoon, and
hold a consultation with the two young men.
Julian had lately developed a taste for
intrigue ; he enjoyed taking the thread
of events in his hand, arranging, deciding,
pulling his friend out of the mire.
Mr. Highview came at his request. Dick
was to be saved, reinstated, helped against
his own will.

Dick, physically strong, was morally
weak. Julian, nervous, and febrile, of delicate
frame and appearance, indomitably strong
in mind. He wrote to Luce a kind and
reassuring letter, and, when after breakfast
Dick plunged into the reposeful languor of a
cigar, Julian sat down to his work calmly
and impassively, as though nothing more thana
page of copy required his attention. At
three o'clock Mr. Highview arrived. This
excellent man, to whom honour was all important,
looked flushed and flurried. He
was full of personal sympathy for Dick, and

yet shrank, constitutionally, from familiar
intercourse with a person of tarnished
honour. Lady Eleanor's observations had
borne fruit — he felt he could never give his
niece to any one lying under the ban of
suspicion. He greeted Bruce cordially ;
shook hands, a prey to mixed feelings, with
Dick, who seemed silent and constrained,
aid talked volubly, and irrelevantly, of the
weather.

'^ Such storms," he said ; *^ bridge washed
away by the rain, had to take a circuitous
route to get to the station, trees uprooted in
the park, safer in the country though —
chimney-pots very dangerous in London."

'^ The storm is over, I fancy," said Bruce,
smoothing out his papers mechanically; "but
with regard to ''

'' Lady Eleanor begged to be remembered
to you," hastily put in Mr. High view ; then
as an after-thought, he added, looking towards
Dick, pale and silent on the sofa,
*^ and to you too."

Lady Eleanor is always kind, and I am
sure would be especially kind about this
dreadful event."

Mr. Highview, remembering Lady

Eleanor's wrath, had his doubts, but he prudently
kept them to himself, merely murmuring
:

'' Dreadful event, indeed."

^'It must be averted," said Bruce, firmly.
You must give your valuable opinion as to
the course to be pursued."

^^ I scarcely know — it is so mysterious."
Mr. Highview glanced doubtfully in the
direction of the sofa.

^^ I do not see that. A pearl necklace,
entrusted to Dick, has been stolen ; the
stupidity or the malice of somebody suggested
Dick as the thief ; he was careless,
certainly, criminally careless ; we cannot
acquit him of that; but, Mr. Highview, let us
be logical, is such a thing likely ? "

^' Likely, no ; but if "

'^ The necklace has been stolen or lost ;
if lost it will probably be found; if stolen
we must endeavour to secure the thief."

'' Yes, but "

^^He will be found, I have not much fear;
meanwhile the first thing to be done, in my
opinion, is for the warrant to be withdrawn,
and for Dick to clear himself openly."

'^ I agree with you."

a

Now, Mr. Highview, lend us the aid of
your wisdom and experience. The jeweller
took out the warrant, I believe ? ''

'^ He did."

'^ You must have some influence with him;
what are his politics ? "

^^ The firm have always been Conservative."


^' They will not care to disoblige you.
You have great influence ; your niece is
engaged to be married to Mr. Carrol."

^^ Not now, I believe — Lady Eleanor — "

^' Pardon me, we will return to that later.
There is no need to inform the world that
you suspect your future nephew-inlaw of
fraud. You can bring pressure to bear, and
suppress the warrant for the present. The
great thing is to gain time ; events may
shape themselves as we wish. I have your
approval ? "

'^ I shall, of course, do what I can to elucidate
the mystery, both for my own sake,
because I am a magistrate, and also to clear
your character, Dick," said Mr. Highview,
gravely.

Dick thanked him briefly.

Bruce resumed. ^^I think therefore that
Dick should return with you to-night, that

you should declare him ready to give himself
up when called upon ; you, in your own
person, appeal to the jewellers to be carefullest
they make some terrible mistake ;
doubtless they are only actuated by the
desire to obtain back their property, not b}^
spite ; they will listen to you, and Dick must
not any longer remain in hiding. Do you
share my views ? "

"Entirely. You have explained the matter
lucidly and carefully. No man of honour
could disagree with you."

"Dick's friends must show their entire trust
in him on this occasion ; it is the best service
we can any of us tender''

"Yes; we are your friends, Dick." Mr.
High view's voice no longer trembled. "And,
please God, we shall see you righted."

He had caught the infection of Julian's
calm trust and confidence ; he had forgotten
Lady Eleanor's warnings.

You will return to-night ? '' questioned
Bruce.

Yes, to-night. Pack up your portmanteau,
Dick."

A flush of pleasure passed over Dick's
pale cheeks. He was not accustomed to

suspicion and contempt ; they hurt him, he
had no armour proof against their attacks —
even Mr. High view's previous coldness had
made him wince. Now that he recognised
heartiness and friendliness in Mr. Highview's
words his serenity and unruffled amour-propre
returned. He rose, and with a firm
step moved into the next room to make his
preparations. Julian rang for tea. The
landlady answered the bell ; the trio perplexed
and interested her ; there was some
mystery about them, she felt sure, and she
would have given worlds to unravel it. A
mystery, young men, and a possible lover
in Dick, if he would only condescend to look
at her, a conclusion which she still hoped
for, were sufficient to pique any woman's
curiosity. Mr. Highview's face, too, was
familiar to her. She did not know his
name, for he had entered unannounced, and
she ransacked her memory for a clue to the
vague fancies his appearance evolved. As
she bustled about with the tea-tray she
listened eagerly in order to pick up some
crumbs of the conversation, but in vain ;
Bruce was on his guard, and carefully kept

Mr. Highview to the discussion of the most
ordinary topics.

'' I have been thinking," said Mr. High-view,
on the landlady's departure, ^^ I don't
believe Lady Eleanor would like you to stay
at Highview just now, you see, with Luce ;
it's awkward, you understand ; I am not unfriendly,
but it's awkward."

^' Couldn't you go to Long Leam ? " asked
Bruce.

'impossible! Granny is ill, and under
the charge of my aunt and uncle. They are
just now my greatest enemies."

^^ But then "

''I have it," said Mr. Highview. ^^ You and
Bruce must go to the hotel at West Thorpe;
you will be on the spot, no one can say you
are afraid ; I shall be near and can communicate
with you whenever I wish to — besides
you must attend to your election."

'' My chance is over."
^^ I am not so sure of that ; the current of
public opinion may set in the opposite direction
; you will be looked upon as a martyr,
pitied, sympathized with, and raised to
greater honour''

^' That is not impossible'' said Bruce.

'' Lady Eleanor wishes me to stand," continued
Mr. Highview, with a shamefaced air,
'^ but I don't care about it ; the House of
Commons is very mixed now, and besides I
am not even sure that it is possible so late
in the day; but you who have done all the
hard work should persevere, reap your
reward, go in and win."

^^ Certainly! Try to be ambitious, Dick.
Besides, you have no right to disappoint
your friends," said Julian, encouragingly''

It seems my friends know better what is
good for me than I do myself," said Dick,
ruefully.

'' Of course, or we should not be your,
friends."

Thus it was settled, and the three men
left by the afternoon train for West Thorpe.
Late as it was, Mr. Highview sought an interview
with the firm of jewellers, and,
judging from the composed and pleased
expression of his countenance, with a satisfactory
result.

CHAPTER VI.

Julian's letter considerably eased Luce's
anxiety, and her uncle's information tended
to diminish it still more. Her lover was
well. He was at West Thorpe, near her ; matters
were not so serious as she had supposed,
and he knew that she loved him. She could
afford now to wait calmly for the time when
they would meet again. This time need not
be far distant, for Bruce had promised to
send Dick to her as soon as she made
arrangements to that effect. It must, unfortunately,
be a clandestine meeting, for Lady
Eleanor threw herself into such paroxysms
of anger whenever Luce mentioned Dick's
name that the latter abandoned all attempt
to obtain her consent to the interview. Luce
neither doubted her own constancy nor that
of Dick. It never occurred to her to suppose

that worldly circumstances made any
difference to love, nor that the fact of her
intended possessing fewer friends afforded
a reasonable pretext for discarding his attentions.
Luce considered her word sacred, she
had pledged it to Dick, knowing thoroughly
what she was about, and she had no intention
of withdrawing it ; there might be difficulties
perhaps, there might be bitter moments to
pass, but they could only be moments — and
what are moments to love which counts on
eternity? Insensibly she built her castles in
the air, and wove her happy day-dreams,
finding a keen and searching delight in the
prospect of the pains she must endure for
her lover's sake.

A day or two elapsed. Luce lived as in a
trance, only semi-sentient, impervious to the
pricks of ordinary things, passive before
Maud's hints and sarcasms, patient under Lady
Eleanor's fault-finding. There are times when
the body relaxes its demands, and subsides
into careless indifference ; the supremacy of
the soul asserts itself, and lives in an intensity
of joy, which is essentially spiritual. Such
a period had overtaken Luce ; material sorrow
was powerless to harm her, for she existed

only in the interior life. Voices sounded
dim and far away to her ear; she trod
lightly as on air, and listened serenely to
the whispers of her heart. And now the
hour had come. This very afternoon she
was to meet Dick, and hear from his lips
that he still needed her. Under the large
beech-trees near the river, in a secluded part
of the park, the meeting was arranged.
Luce was the first to arrive; she judged
every instant wasted out of the presence of
her lover, but she was neither anxious nor
worried because he was not already there ;
she liked to think of him, to dream and linger;
it was happiness enough to walk under
the vast spreading aisles of the beech-branches,
to hear the murmur of the sleepy
river, and to rest in the silence, sometimes
quaintly broken by the hoarse cawing of the
busy rooks. The day was still, and soft, and
misty, a day impregnated with a spirit of
sadness, yet suited to a mood of tender,
trustful love. The water glistened in a broad
silvery streak towards the middle of the
stream, shading off into the palest grey, and
violet at the edges; the delicate blue sky
was sprinkled with layers of soft grey clouds,

of a uniform and harmonious tint. Against
the horizon masses of dark foliage stood,
shrouded in a mantle of transparent mist ; all
nature quivered and shimmered in soft and
gentle undertones — sentiment rather than
passion seemed the key-note of the situation.
Luce walked up and down slowly, drinking
in the quiet beauty of the scene. Presently a
crackling of the dead leaves, daintily sparkling
with moisture, made her turn quickly.
In another instant she was clasped in Dick's
arms.

'^ Luce, how good you are to give me this
opportunity ! "

'good? What do you mean— are we
not engaged?"

'eyes, but still "

Julian had warned him, as he valued his
own happiness, not to forsake this true
woman.

I did not think — how could I tell ? you
know what a poor wretch I am."

I know that you are in trouble, and that
I love you'' she said, clinging to him trustfully.


Luce's eyes were so pathetically expressive
when she spoke thus from her heart

that it was impossible for the most fastidious
to deem her plain.

'' How can I accept such a sacrifice ? I
am not an utter brute. Luce''

dear, how pale you look," she said,
unheeding his question ; '^ you have suffered
a great deal ; why was I not by your side
from the very first to comfort you ? You
know I wanted to comfort you."

'eyes, I know," he said, wearily, 'you
are too good to me, Luce ; I do not deserve
it."

'' I did not know that love counted the
cost and valued itself ; have I not told you
I love you ? Don't you believe me, Dick ? "

'' I do believe you — yet I scarcely dare
to believe you."

'' I, too, have been very unhappy," confessed
Luce ; 'let us sit down a little hereon
the trunk of this tree, it is quite dry
and comfortable. We can talk better so."

They seated themselves on the fallen
stem, the venerable bark of which was
here and there smooth and slippery, elsewhere
rough and grey with clustering moss
and lichen.

Unhappy — you ? "

'^ Yes, to think of what you were enduring.
Ah, Dick, there are only two sorts of
women — those who love and those who do
not — and I "

'' You are the fondest and truest little
heart in the world. I appreciate you, Luce,"
he said, jutting his arm round her.

^^ Do you?" Her brilliant eyes sought
his with looks of love. ^' Then I must read
you a little sermon. Why do you say I am
too good, and praise me and pay me compliments?
It pains me, Dick. Do you
think I need that ? I have my reward when
I feel that I can be something to you. As
I said before, there are but two sorts of
women. If I did not love you no persuasion
of yours could induce me to do the least
little thing for your sake ; but, as I love you,
such words as sacrifice, goodness, unselfishness,
simply don't exist. I am yours. You
do not stand still or pause to pay yourself
a compliment. Look upon me as yourself
"

^^ But, Luce," he said, very tenderly.
Her words touched him strangely.

'^ Let me finish. I am yourself. I am

VOL. II. G

pleased with every joy, suffer with every
pang, in fact my existence is yours. I can
have only one real sorrow, and that is to be
parted from you'*

She stopped, and, as though overwhelmed
by the importance of her self-revelation,
bent her head timidly.

'^ Luce, I accept your sacrifice. As you
wish it, nothing shall part us ; but my dear
little girl I fear you are laying up for yourself
a great deal of trouble "

'' No, no. Now tell me all." She settled
herself quietly, her big eyes dilated, while
she hung passionately on his lips as he told
her of the difficulties with which he had to
contend. Though the warrant was not served,
and a lull seemed to have fallen upon the
proceedings, yet every day brought defections
from his side ; friends cold and
estranged, side-glances, actual avoidance.
Then Luce, nestling closer to his side, recounted
her visit to Granny, dwelt upon the
old lady's trust and confidence in her grandson,
warmed with indignation as she spoke
of aunt Vincent's heartless behaviour, and
commented on the changes at Long Leam ;
the parsimony and the grasping meanness of

the woman who had usurped the place of his
grandmother.

Dick listened, and his face grew stern and
grave. He withdrew the arm that was
round Luce. " They will make her change
her will, I am sure," he said, gloomily,
'' and then I am done for. I have only a
couple of hundred a-year of my own. In
that case, Luce, we cannot marry, for I shall
not accept a fortune from my wife; no, I
have not sunk quite as low as that yet."

Luce's lip trembled. '^ I have no fortune,"
she said, ''' none whatever. Did you
think I had?"

'' I did not know'' he answered, lightly;
*' I thought it very likely, your uncle being
childless "

'' But he has nephews. Tell me '' — she
hesitated — * ' that was not the reason you
asked me to marry you ? "

Luce winced with shame as she asked this
question of her lover; she dared not even
look at him.

'' The reason — no. I really never thought
of it."

Thank God, then, she could look up;
thank God she need not feel ashamed.

G 2

Maud's insinuations were false ! '^ Oh, I am
so glad," she said, '* so very glad''
'^ Glad that we shall be penniless ? "
No, no, of course ; but I think now that
you must care for me a little ; for myself,
I mean, as I have no money."

^' I care for you very much." He kissed
her as he said this, but the kiss was formal ;
there was little warmth in it. Luce could
not help thinking that, in his place — hereunder
the beech-trees, where the clear light
filtered down and touched the herbs and
grasses at their feet, alone with the girl who
loved him dearly, so close to her that he
must almost hear her heart beat, her little
hand in his, his lips touching her soft cheek,
she would not have kissed so, and yet
in another instant she chid herself for unworthy
doubts. He was taking her without
a fortune, purely on her own merits.
Luce thought there was something very
noble in the manner in which he had received
the news of her dowerless condition,
and in the indifference he had displayed,
yet this was the man vulgar people misunderstood,
and accused of theft and fraud.
They were fools ; no one knew his real

character like herself. She again turned upon
him the fire of her lustrous eyes, soft with
pride and happiness. ^' Do not be dejected,
dear," she said, a touch of motherly kindness
in her voice ; '' these troubles will pass
away, and I am going to help you to bear
them. You will be glad to have my help,
won't you ? "

^* Yes, indeed''

You don't know how strong I am
really," she said, leaning back against her
lover's shoulders, a happy smile playing
round her lips ; '^ strong in health, strong inspirit,
I feel as if nothing mattered now I
have you " — she had been going to say
^' your love," but she checked herself — she
had no right to think he loved her yet,
'' Together we can brave the world, your
aunt, and uncle ; as your wife I shall have
the right to fight your battles, to put my
love like a shield between you and the
attacks of wicked people ; you will not mind
much then, dear ?''

The sweetness of her voice, mellowed by
the glow of her strong feeling, completely
captivated him, it lulled his senses into a
delicious languor, her innocent flattery

soothed his ruffled pride, her perfect trust
restored his confidence, she was a woman
in a thousand, eminently fitted for him he
thought. And Luce talked on, a harmonious
lilt in her voice, as she painted their future
in glowing colours, touching delicately on
his present troubles, and dilating on the
talents and capacities he was going to unfold.
The confidence of a loving woman
inspires the very belief she implies. Dick
felt himself stronger and better ; he ignored
the flattery (unconscious, indeed, the mere
gilding of love) and acknowledged the truth
of her judgment. And yet he was no more
in love with her than he had been on the
first day ; like a king, he permitted himself
to be adored ; his senses were cold, for they
were charged with gratitude rather than
affection, but her assurances steeped him ina
delicious kind of lazy well-being. The
lotus is a pleasant fruit, easy to assimilate ;
Luce, poor simple soul, mistook his friendliness,
his responsive return of sympathy,
for the frail commencement of love, and
rejoiced.

^' Do not give up the election'' she urged,
^^ do not— let none think you attach much

importance to this accusation ; you have
nothing to reproach yourself with, but go on
your way quietly as if nothing had occurred."

'^ Just what Bruce says, yet how can I ? "

They had risen, and were passing slowly
by the river side, faint wreaths of mist
floated around them, some water-fowl called
to each other harshly from the sedges, the
daylight gradually declined into a duller
tone of grey, there would be no sunset tonight.
" You can, dear Dick, you of all
men. I think Lady Eleanor may be brought
round to give you her countenance, and if
so, if we can be married "

^' It is no use thinking of that at present,
let me get out of this vile business first," he
said, impatiently. At that instant he would
gladly have given up Luce's love just to be
free, happy, and popular again as he had
seemed only a few months ago. He was
caught in a kind of noose ; if he could but
have once extricated himself he should be
more wary for the future.

'^ And you do not think our marriage
would be advisable, would be of advantage?"
said Luce, regretfully.

No, no, it is quite impossible ; don't you

see — but the election is different, I shall
probably go on with that, it must be decided
next week.

^^ Oh, if you can only succeed ! " she said,
with a gasp of intense longing.

You will be pleased ? "

^^ Of course. And Granny — Dick, think
how pleased she will be, poor old dear. I
am going to see her tomorrow, what shall I
say to her ? "

^^ Tell her I'm awfully sorry to give her
all this pain — tell her I mean to lead a more
useful life, she shall be proud of me some
day."

^^ Dear Dick!"

^* Only she must have patience; just now
I feel knocked down."

'soh, she will have patience — she has been
patient all her life, she has believed in you
and waited so long."

^ ^ I can't think why you women have such
trust in a fellow."

^^ Can't you?"

^^ No, by Jove, for the life of me I can't
see why you go on caring when one always
disappoints you''

•* Shall I tell you — because we love the

fellow ! " Luce gave a bright little laugh
that rippled away and was lost in the murmur
of the river.

^^ It is a good thing women can love. I
believe you like us to give you trouble."

'* Well, we must have something to do,
you know," and she laughed again.

'^ When shall I see you?" She was
serious immediately.

^* I don't know — it is very difficult — today
Lady Eleanor has gone over to luncheon
at the Grimsby's, and I knew she was safely
absent for an hour or two ; but she does not
often go away for luncheon, and then I cannot
be sure of my movements — but we can
write, and, even if I may not talk to you, at
least I know now that I have seen you that
all is well — and I shall trust you "

*' Yes, you can trust me — but it is no credit
to me, I haven't even an excuse for forgetting
you. Luce, you have been so kind "

'^Hush!'' She put her hand over his
mouth. ^'It is unsatisfactory parting so —
but we must not be too exacting, Dick."

He understood. He took her in his arms
again and kissed her. It gave her a sensation
of delicious tremor when he took her

like that in his arms, she felt afraid and yet
almost acutely happy. The warmth of his
strong young life seemed to penetrate her
veins, to treble her pulsations, to make her
brave, and hardy, and unflinching. Her
starved heart expanded and filled her bosom
almost painfully. In his arms she would
have died without a murmur.

'you good dear girl'' he said, taking both
hands, " I cannot thank you, but I will think
of you "

"• Yes think of me," she said, passionately.
She stood alone by the riverside for some
moments after he left her, she watched his
quick manly stride across the heavy grass,
she saw him let himself out of the gate into
the carriage drive, she beheld him in imagination
passing along by the sturdy spreading
rhododendron bushes, away through the
lodge gates to the little public-house where
he had left his horse. Her thoughts followed
him he as reached home, (such a home ! a
hired chamber in a noisy inn), where possibly
Bruce already awaited him, their
simple meal, the friendly chat and smoke,
the business, the correspondence, all the
thousand and one items which make up a

man's life, and keep him from that deadly
dreaming which is the poison of unoccupied
women, passed before her mind. After all,
he was happier than she ; she was alone,
helpless, without any definite business, except
that weary business of waiting. She
smothered a sigh. The afternoon had been
too happy, she would not desecrate it by a
single murmur. Her imagination had pictured
rightly, had seen as in truth, Dick
riding home quickly with lightened heart
and hopeful anticipations, but what she had
not pictured was an empty room, Bruce
absent, and a letter lying in all its blank
whiteness on the oil cloth-covered table-dick's
hand trembled as he took it, he recognised
the writing, and he rather guessed
than read the words it contained.

^' Come to me at once without delay.
To-morrow, in the fir plantation, at twelve.

'^ Evelyn."

A rendezvous, and under such circumstances.
It could mean only some fearful
complication, some tragic ending. Go to
Evelyn, meet her while her husband still
treated him as a vulgar thief, and was eager
to put in practice the arm of the law to

serve his own personal vengeance. Could it
be a trap ? No ! He would not insult her
with the thought. But it was dangerous,
horribly dangerous, as he was then situated.
Yet he never thought of refusing. A woman
in distress, a woman he had loved. Heavens !
did he love her still ? If so, what would become
of Luce ?

^

CHAPTER VII.

We left Lady Fenchurch on the evening of
the day she had driven in to West Thorpe,
when, returning, she had been forced to endure
a scene of violent jealousy and reproaches
from her husband. Her pride was
up in arms, she felt no inclination to sue for
pardon for a fault she had never committed,
she braved his anger with defiant flippancy,
and talked recklessly to her sister-in-law
at dinner. Sir Hilary scarcely spoke, and
Miss Fenchurch, who always took the cue
from her brother, answered Evelyn's questions
and remarks in a state of mortal terror.
That Evelyn should be so foolish, so daring,
so ungrateful, passed her understanding ; a
love affair with a young man was bad and
wicked enough in all conscience, but when
the husband was Sir Hilary, the most per-feet

and admirable of brothers, it became a
heinous crime. Miss Fenchurch, in her
shrivelled virginity, deprived of the stimulus
of love and passion, comprehended only
a cold and temperate friendship, the mere
notion of anything warmer set her thinking
in frightened curiosity. What then had
occurred between Evelyn and Mr. Carrol ?
Was it possible that she had accorded the
young man so much as a thought stolen from
her debt to her husband, and, if so, how and
why were questions that sorely puzzled the
old maid. After dinner she preserved a
profound silence, for her conversation in the
dining-room, broken only by deep sighs,
had been kept up solely with a view to
the edification of the servants. They were
however already cognizant of everything,
the groom having related the meeting with
Dick to the footman, who repeated it to the
housemaid, who informed the lady's-maid,
who capped this intelligence by the news
that Lady Fenchurch had cried pocket-handkerchiefs
full of tears, and complained
of a dreadful headache after lying on her
bed, and drinking a cup of tea brought to
her by Miss Fenchurch herself, a pros



feeding utterly at variance with the rules of
the house, for which reason the lady's-maid
concluded that Lady Fenchurch must be in
disgrace with her husband with reference to
the said young man, Mr. Dick Carrol. The
servants, being thus duly informed of everything
of interest. Miss Fenchurch need not
have laboured so diligently to keep up appearances
and to give an air of artless freedom
to the extremely constrained relations
of the trio. But how seldom do we know
what is or is not hidden from our servants,
and how much better is it for us tn be kept
in peaceful ignorance of our own sinful
transparency !

Silence reigned in the big drawing-room.
Sir Hilary read The Times as diligently as
though he had never seen a newspaper for a
month, his spectacles firmly fixed on his
nose, the lamp conveniently at his elbow.
Opposite, on the other side of the fire-place,
Miss Fenchurch knitted indefatigably, and
between them, Evelyn, buried in a large
arm-chair, alternately yawned and read a
novel. Presently the silence irritated her
nerves past endurance — enforced stillness in
company usually has that effect. She jumped

up and went to the piano. There she began
to play everything she could think of in her
jarring mood, airs from Patience, the last
valse, fashionable dance music, rattling off
one thing after another, reckless defiance
expressed in her very finger-tips. Half-an
hour elapsed, when Sir Hilary folded his
paper, and somewhat testily cried out

«< For goodness' sake cease that devil's
tattoo on the piano ! "

'^ I thought you liked music," said Evelyn
suavely, ceasing to play ; she had worn off
some of her vexation, and now felt inclined
for amiability.

^^ So I do, decent sober music — you don't
call that music, I suppose ? "

^^ Certainly ! dance music is most inspiriting,"
answered Evelyn, rising, however,
and approaching the fire-place. ^' How
cold my hands are ; this room is a perfect
ice-house."

'^ It is warm enough here."

^' Yes — in the fireplace — but it is hateful
sitting stewing over the coals."

^* I am sorry my house does not please
you," said Sir Hilary, coldly, resuming his
arm-chair.

Now, Hilary, don't let us quarrel."
Evelyn smiled sweetly and spoke in the
cajoling accents that usually conquered her
husband. '^ What is it? Why are you
angry ? I told you the truth — there is no
more to be said."

Sir Hilary did not answer, he glared
straight before him into the fire. Miss
Fenchurch cleared her throat.

'^ I really think, Hilary, it was only a
mistake — I mean " (Miss Fenchurch felt that
it was impossible to accuse her brother of
making a mistake) '' Evelyn is very sorry —
you are very sorry, aren't you, Evelyn ?
Tell him so. You ivill forgive her, Hilary?"

Excuse me. Miss Fenchurch " — Evelyn's
voice was clear and icy. ^' There is nothing
to forgive. Sir Hilary knows it."

'^ At least you have been foolish and
insincere," he said at last.

'^ That was before my marriage ; since, I
have been a good wife."

*^ She has been a good wife, Hilary,"
echoed his sister, in her tinkling metallic
tones.

*^ Let us be friends, Hilary, do ! " Evelyn

VOL. II. H

knelt down beside her husband's chair, and
took his limp hand in hers.

'^ Yes, do, Hilary ! " again chimed in Miss
Fenchurch.

^* These rumours, these revelations in
families, are very unpleasant. I wish my
wife to be above reproach."

'^ Yes, of course, above reproach ! " said
the old maid, nodding her head.

'' And I find you have deceived me — have
had a love affair I knew nothing about."

It wasn't much of a love affair," said
Evelyn, airily; " besides, he is going to be
married now."

'-' Well," — the ice was breaking, evidently
Sir Hilary meant to relent. " I will not be
too hard on you, as you are young ; you
must promise to hold no further intercourse
with Mr. Carrol, — my adversary, politically,
remember, therefore additionally to be
avoided, and I will perhaps make no more
allusion to the extremely unpleasant events
of the past."

How kind, how forgiving you are ! "
said Miss Fenchurch, adoring. " I told
you, Evelyn, that my brother was a grand
character. Ah ! you should not make him

angry ; it will never occur again, my dear, I
hope''

'hilary," said Evelyn, who now stood
quietly resting her arm on the mantelshelf,
you may be quite sure I shall not betray
your confidence, but I cannot bear to be
treated like a schoolgirl ; you were very unjust
and cruel in your suspicions to-day ; " a
sob choked her utterance ; though defiant she
was not hardened, and adversity or disgrace,
coupled with absence from her husband's
roof, was the very last thing in the world
she desired.

^' There, dear, there," said Sir Hilary,
soothingly, " we will talk no more of it."

^^ But I do not like to be suspected and
accused," Evelyn said between her sobs.

''My dear, what are you crying for?"
asked Miss Fenchurch. " Alien my brother
says he will not mention the matter again,
I think you are very fortunate."

Evelyn began to dry her eyes. The tears
she had shed were rather nervous than
sorrowful ; she hated earrings and scolding
and things contrary to the amenities of life.
In her renunciation of Dick she had been
greatly influenced by the desire of a quiet

h2

life and the nervous shrinking from scenes-and
now, here, after her show of good principle
and wifely conduct, she was enduring
the very disagreeable things in anticipation
of which she had strangled her love at its
birth.

Sir Hilary disliked to see women cry.
He rose, fidgeted about, wiped his spectacles,
took out his pocket-handkerchief and blew
his nose ; then, as Evelyn grew calmer, he
Walked uj) to her and kissed her on the forehead.


^^ Come and play a game of dummy
whist," he said, '' my dear, you will sleep
the better for it afterwards''

Miss Penchurch bustled up and got out
the cards and arranged the counters. By
tacit consent no more was said on the subject
; and, when the demure butler brought
in the tray of wine and water and the bed-candles,
a scene of more unimpeachable
domestic propriety could scarcely have met
his eyes. Sir Hilary had taken dummy,
and, thanks to Miss Eenchurch's forgetfulness,
by which he claimed two revokes, and
Evelyn's preoccupation, the few shillings
he had won might be heard to fall with a

jingle into his trousers pocket, while he
chuckled audibly.

'' You must really be more careful,
Rachel," he said graciously. ^' At your age
you ought not to revoke like a raw miss in
her teens."

Allusions to age did not please the old
maid, but, thankful that her brother's equanimity
was now happily restored, she forbore
to show her vexation in any acrimonious
repartee.

Evelyn dismissed all further thought of
Dick from her mind ; the subject now had
become really far too unpleasant, and she
sincerely hoped the slight conjugal squall
had blown over without ill effects, but it had
given her somewhat of a fright, and she
determined to act prudently and circumspectly
for the future.

Friday morning arrived, and the pearl
necklace, which Messrs. Cherry and Appleton
had promised her faithfully, had not yet
reached her. She grew anxious, for she was
particularly desirous to please Sir Hilary,
and she knew that he liked her to display
this, his last new and handsome gift, whenever
an opportunity afforded itself. On this

occasion they were to dine with Mr. and
Mrs. Grimsby, a rich brewer, who, having
partially retired from business, endeavoured
to spend some of his large fortune in ostentatious
hospitality.

Mrs. Grimsby had fine diamonds, with
which she took care to cover herself ; and it
would be doubly disappointing were she
totally to eclipse Evelyn. The post had
come in and there was no sign of the pearls.
Evelyn debated in her own mind the wisest
course to pursue, finally deciding to drive
in herself to West Thorpe and fetch the necklace.
The jewellers were generally so
punctual, so business-like, they had promised
so faithfully, that the affair was doubly incomprehensible.
As she was starting Sir
Hilary came out of his study.

^' Where are you going, Evelyn ? "

^^I am going to West Thorpe," she said,
dropping the words out as she passed, too
fidgety to arrest her steps for discussion.

^' What, before luncheon — is not that rather
unusual for you ? "

'^ 1 had a headache, and I must buy some
ribbon to wear in my hair to-nights''

'' You will put on your pearls," said Sir

Hilary, signing to the servant to bring him
his coat.

'' Of course ! are you coming then ? " she
added nervously, buttoning her gloves.

'' Yes, I have some business with Dewsnap,
and, as you are driving in, I may as well go
with you."

• Evelyn dared make no objection, and
vaguely hoped she might call for her necklace
without attracting any notice, while Sir
Hilary paid his visit to the lawyer. She
sprang lightly into the pony carriage, and
took the reins while Sir Hilary settled himself
beside her. His ruddy face bore an
unusually happy expression; he took out a^
cigar and began to smoke in silent beatitude.
It pleased him to be driving beside his pretty
young wife, so that every one should see on
what excellent terms they both were.

'' You haven't taken me out in your pony-carriage
for a long time," he remarked presently;
^'I think it runs very easy, but those
ponies are not pulling well together; doesn't
Box bore a good deal ?'' Evelyn confessed
that he did make her wrist ache, and Sir
Hilary, telling her to stop, got out, and himself
readjusted the ponies' bits. He stood

for a moment in front of the pole, cigar in
mouth, contemplating the elegant equipage,
the ponies, and their graceful mistress, and
a smile of satisfaction beamed on his countenance.


'' Quite a first-class turn-out," he said ashe
seated himself again beside her; ^' they
don't pull now, do they?" he asked ; ^^ they
'ought to have mouths like satin."

^ ^ It is quite right since you altered the
bits," said Evelyn.

'^ Very well then." He turned to the spruce
little groom. snow, Tom, do you hear,
always bit her ladyship's ponies like that,
never let me see them again as they were
just now, yawing about like brutes in a
van."

Sir Hilary was too well satisfied with
himself and his belongings to notice his
wife's constrained silence, which she spasmodically
broke by inter sectional phrases of
the smallest import, nor did he remark that
lier pallor increased as they neared the
town.

^^ Where shall I drive you ? " inquired
Evelyn, when the first straggling houses became
visible.

'you can set me down anywhere," he
said; ^' what have you got to do ? "

''I shall take you at once to Dewsnap's,
then," she said, ignoring* his question, but
Sir Hilary insisted on a detour by the linen-draper's,
whither Evelyn had unwittingly declared
she was going. The shop was in the
market-place, find this gave an opportunity
to the vain old man of being seen driving
through the busiest streets with his beautiful
wife. The ambition was innocent
enough, but Evelyn's guilty conscience
pricked lier with weary wondering as to the
meaning of this wish. At last when she had
passed the jewellers, where she dared not
stop, and had deposited her husband at Mr.
Dewsnap's, and watched him safely inside
the door, she took courage and drove back
rapidly to the jewellers' shop ; the little
groom ran in at her request and summoned
one of the partners, who came out looking
fatter and more oily than ever, not forgetting
to wash his hands with imaginary soap) as he
stood bowing and smiling by the side of the
carriage.

My necklace, Mr. Cherry, " said Evelyn,
bending towards him, and speaking in a low

voice. *' I have called for my necklace;
why didn't you send it as you promised ? ''

But we did send it, my lady, yesterday,
by the young gentleman himself."

^' The young gentleman ! what young
man ? " questioned Evelyn, feverishly ;
scarcely daring to believe the possibility
that flashed upon her mind.

'' The young man — I fancy he was instructed
to call for it."

^' I never instructed any one ; what do
you mean ? Are you mad ? "

Excuse me, my lady, we thought it was
to save time, and wq were glad to give the
necklace to your messenger.' '

'rit is stolen ! I tell you it is stolen !
What gross carelessness on your part !
What am I to say to Sir Hilary ? Don't
stand staring there as if you where an idiot!"
she added, sharply.

My lady, it is the very first time such a
thing has occurred, and I will at once inquire
into the matter''

"Can you restore me the necklace ? Where
is it ? Do you trust valuable j jewellery to
the first beggar in the street ? "

'' He was not a beggar, my lady, he was

a real gentleman, a friend of yours, I believe,
Mr. Dick Carrol. If your ladyship
will wait, I will ask mv foreman for further
particulars as to what he said."

^^ I don't want particulars — I want my
necklace."

'^I will do all that is in my power, my
lady, we will send at once to Mr. Carrol's,
and we will communicate with the police,
and I have little doubt the thief will be
traced."

'•'' I cannot stay now'' said Evelyn, feverishly,
'^ Sir Hilary is waiting ; you must
write and apologise to him yourself for your
rashness ; he will be very angry, and he is
certain never to employ you again."

Evelyn drove off, her brow compressed in
anger, her face deadly white, and left the
poor old gentleman standing there half-scared,
still bowing respectfully on the curbstone.
The ponies dashed down the narrow
street; Evelyn, driving recklessly, nearly upsetting
a tinker's cart drawn by a poor little
donkey ; the ponies snorted (the patient assis
ever an object of aversion to the highly-bred
and prosperous steed), shied, and nearly
bolted against a dead wall. Evelyn, recalled

to a sense of her position, grasped the reins
more firmly and reduced the ponies to a
sober trot. But her thoughts were dancing
wildly ; what should she say — Dick Carrol,
Dick a thief, what did it mean?— how avert
her husband's displeasure, how account for
the mystery she had preserved about the
necklace ? He would be very angry, perhaps
think she was in league with Dick ;
and he would believe the old story which
she had already found such difficulty in disposing
of. Anxious and miserable she
awaited her husband. Sir Hilary emerged
presently from the lawyer's house looking
extremely cheerful ; he had drunk a glass
of famous old sherry, and received good
news of the election prospects. Mr. Dew-snap
came out with him, and the two men,
talking, walked slowly down the narrow-paved
approach to the gate.

'^ Here, Dewsnao, are not her ladyship's
ponies looking well ? I know you are a judge
of horses."

So, so," said the lawyer, flattered in his
only weakness — even lawyers are human,
^' but I can very well see that these are a
beautiful pair."

^^ Beautiful, yes ; and I can tell you my
lady knows how to drive them," said Sir
Hilary, swinging himself up beside her.

'' Your ladyship is quite well ? " said Mr.
Dewsnap, urbanely, struck by her strange
pallor.

'^ Quite well, thank you."

Evelyn immediately flushed a brilliant
pink, which confirmed the wary old lawyer
in the idea that there was something amiss.

'^ Well, good-bye, Dewsnap," shouted Sir
Hilary, as they drove off; 'come and dine
soon, I've a new bin of claret I want you
to taste."

CHAPTER VIII.

On the drive home they talked of indifferent
subjects Evelyn determined to leave everything
to chance ; the necklace might be
found, or at any rate the jewellers must bear
the blame of their carelessness. Having
decided this she bent all her energies to be as
charming as possible to her husband, who
returned home in a most agreeable humour.
Evelyn took care to delay her dressing so
that the carriage was at the door before lie
was ready to start, and she had but time to
clasp round her neck a small diamond riviere
and wrapped in her cloak to hurry downstairs.
Sir Hilary therefore had no opportunity
of seeing what had occurred until she
threw off her cloak in Mrs. Grimsby's front
hall, when he merely exclaimed, '^ Why, you
have not got on your pearls after all ! "

'^ I was in such a hurry," she replied,
following the stately footman into the 


During dinner Evelyn, the lady of highest
rank, and consequently placed next her
host, felt her husband's eyes fixed doubtfully
upon her ; but the laws of fashionable society
have this advantage, that they separate husband
and wife, and effectually preclude all
opportunity of conjugal jars and cross-questionings.
On the other side of her was
seated a rich young stock-broker, who, his
time having hitherto been occupied in money-making,
remained a novice in the society
of pretty women. He thought Evelyn quite
the most beautiful creature he had ever
beheld, and allowed his eyes to roam gleefully
from the top of her well-bred head
with its coils of raven black hair to the little
pink ear, the pillared throat, and the full,
graceful figure, until it reached the white and
jewelled hands, and was lost in the mazes
of her intricate yellow drapery. He envied
the possessor of so much beauty, and thought
that when he chose a wife he should treat
himself to just such an one, a fine animal,
well-bred, well-mannered, and worth the

money. He was rich enough in all conscience,
and he had no idea of putting up
with an inferior article. Evelyn, unconscious
of the mental ap2:>raisement she was
undergoing, and pleased to distract her mind
at any cost, laughed heartily at his puerile
and somewhat vulgar jokes, and playfully
answered his attempts at gallantry.

^^ Fine house, this, isn't it ? " he said, '^ my
friend Grim shy's ; I've known him a longtime,
you know — all the best houses in the
City are acquainted — doesn't do things by
halves — first-rate wine — a French chef —
and, by Jingo, such pictures — you see there's
a Millais, and a Turner, and a what's the
fellow's name ? — a "

^^Sir Joshua Reynolds," suggested Evelyn.

^' Yes, yes; he don't go in for those
washed-out dug-up dead people — the ascetic
school, you know ; likes flesh and blood ;
quite my opinion — I like flesh and blood ;
fond of pictures. Lady Fenchurch ? "

^^ Yes, very fond," said Evelyn.

*^ Paint a little, perhaps? Most young
ladies paint — their faces, too, I mean — ha,
ha ! " Evelyn looked grave.

In your case that don't apply ; couldn't

u

paint the rose or the lily, eh ? Ever had
your portrait taken, by some big chap I
mean ? "

*^ Never'* answered Evelyn.

^ ' Dear me ; well now I should have
thought — what is your husband's name ; he's
that red-faced, white-whiskered man, isn't
he?"

^' Sir Hilary," said Evelyn, smothering
her laughter.

'' Sir Hilary — yes, what a queer name ;
reminds one of an old rhyme, ' Dickey,
dickey dock, the mouse ran up the clock.'
Well, Sir Hilary ought to have you painted
by Leighton, now, or Watts ; tell him so
from me, will you ? "

I'll tell him, certainly ; but you know
those great painters ask enormous prices."

'' And quite right, too ; always ask the
price your goods can command ; what is the
use of being rich if you don't get the best of
everything — first-class prices and a first-rate
article — it's cheap in the long run.'

'^ Yes," vaguely assented Evelyn ; she did
not quite know what to say. The mercantile
view of life had not yet occurred to her.
There was a good deal in its favour cere

II. I

vainly, and now she thought of it, had she
not been actuated by its influence in the
transaction of her own marriage ? Her reflections
were interrupted by Mr. Grimsby's
jolly voice.

^^ I'm going to work like a nigger for your
husband," he said, ^' on polling-day ; I've no
idea of these confounded Radicals getting
into Parliament, and turning everything
upside down. What do they mean by unearned
increment and all that jargon. When
a man has got money, never mind whether
he has earned it or not, naturally he wishes
to stick to it. Besides, it's all such stuff that
talk about land; land is taxed heavily
enough as it is, and if you meddle with land
what is to prevent you meddling with capital?
and in that case England may whistle for
her prosperity ; capital will make wings for
itself — Try this Pommeray, it's superb."

'^ Do you think Sir Hilary will get in for
the county?" asked Evelyn, who scarcely
felt herself equal to a political argument.

'^ Can't say, I'm sure. You never can tell
what makes people vote ; but I should think
so ; he is very popular, and rides to hounds
the farmers like him."

'^ think they do."

'' Then that other young fellow, his adversary,
has no stake in the county, has not
been here much ; what has he ever done ? He
isn't a landlord ; he is mixed up with a lot of
racing fellows, the scum of the earth."
^' Do you mean Mr. Carrol ? "
'eyes, of course, Dick Carrol; he is just
Lady Eleanor's nominee; she is an infernally
proud woman, only comes to see my wife
under protest; I'm sure my wife is handsome
enough for anything." He looked towards
Mrs. Grimsby at the bottom of the table,
who, stately and resplendent in red satin,
glittered with diamonds like a Woman
Catholic image.

'' Mrs. Grimsby is very handsome."
'handsome— I should think so. Why,
when I married her she was so beautiful I
did not dare let her walk out alone ; they
mobbed her— I assure you people positively
mobbed her. She is worthy of diamonds, she
is now; shows them off to perfection." '

At that instant the signal was given for
the ladies to rise, and Evelyn marched out
of the room obedient to her hostess's wave of
the hand. In the drawing-room, which was

i2

crammed with beautiful tidings arranged
with the want of art and comfort that so
plainly demonstrates the absence of real refinement,
Mrs. Grimsby made a great fuss
over Evelyn. She was the latest bride, a
My-Lady, and the wife of the future member.
Mrs. Grimsby felt herself justified in showing
her preference. The other ladies, in
very high gowns and skimpy draperies,
timid country girls, or commonplace wives
of business men, whom they had taken from
humble families in days when a large fortune
was an impossible prospect, and who seemed
to serve the purpose of the guests on the
stage, flocked together helplessly, and looked
over photographs, books, or in undertones
conversed about their respective household
affairs. Mrs. Grimsby signed to Evelyn to
take a seat on the large crimson satin sofa,
of which her own gown seemed the gigantic
remnant. '^ You were not cold at dinner ? I
hope Mr. Grimsby took care of you ; you are
looking a little pale, dear Lady Fenchurch."
^' Thank you, I am quite well."
'' Of course, one must make allowances,
young married women, you know ; you don't
hunt now, I suppose."

^' Indeed I do ; I'm extremely fond of it''

'^ Well, now you are just like me. I used
to be quite mad about it. I had an elegant
figure, you know, and very fine horses to
ride ; but Mr. Grimsby got frightened, and
persuaded me to give it up."

Evelyn looked at Mrs. Grimsby's ample
proportions, and thought that, if she had
hunted lately, Mr. Grimsby was right in his
consideration for the welfare of the horses.

'^ It does not do for ladies to get falls, you
know; it jars one, and then so much outdoor
exercise spoils the complexion."

'' Oh, if one thinks of one's complexion
"

'' Lor, my dear, when you are a little
older you will find it necessary; Mr. Grimsby
never forgets to bring me the cold cream
regularly before he gets into bed."

Indeed ! "

^' I suppose you are quite in a tremor about
this election. I wish Mr. Grimsby would
have stood. I think M.P. to your name
looks elegant, though of course it does not
affect a lady, but he won't; he says it is
throwing away good money for a bad cause.
I don't understand politics. Do you ? "

^' Not very well."

'^ Well, there is no need — let the men
manage that for us; it is their business ; only
of course one must be a little au fait of
things."

Mrs. Grimsby was very proud of her
French, of which she had acquired a tolerable
smattering at a French boarding-school.
She pronounced it with a true cockney
accent, but then, as she said, it gave you so
much eclat to know French.

'^Do you love orchids ? I do. Here, I will
show you a present Mr. Grimsby made me
on my birthday — it cost los. ; isn't it a dear
ugly darling ? I like 'em because they are so
quaint." The two ladies rose to examine a
peculiarly ugly brown and yellow flower,
placed in a china pot near ; the flower looked
as though it had tried to be a butterfly of
some kind and had failed egregiously. ^^It
is very rare," said Mrs. Grimsby.

^^ Very rare indeed, I should think," said
Evelyn. Then they returned to the red
satin sofa, and Mrs. Grimsby dilated on
her establishment.

Now tell me. Lady Fenchurch, do you
prater powder or not ? I say powder ; it

shows of! plush breeches and silk stockings
so much better. I may say, I think I am
fortunate in my footman; one came from
the Marquis of Thistledown, and the other
from the Duke of Milestone. You know the
duke has such gardens, and sells all his fruit
they say — rather mean, I think — but they are
fine fellows, aren't they ? "

'every fine," assented Evelyn, as soon as
the footman in question, accompanied by the
groom of the chamber, had departed with
the coffee-tray.

'' But they are a lazy lot, you wouldn't
believe how lazy. I found out the other day
that whenever I go to town for a night, the
footman lies in bed and has his breakfast*
brought up to him by the scullery-maid — but
what can one do, one must have fine fellows r
I understand the Earl of Courtly always
takes his footmen without a character, provided
they are good looking and stand six
feet one in their stockings."

Further disclosures were rendered impossible
by the entrance of the gentlemen. Mrs .
Grimsby removed herself to the other side
of the red satin sofa, and the young stockbroker

immediately made his way to the
vacant place beside Evelyn.

^' Have we been a long time ? '' he said,
tenderly ; '^ I am afraid we have, men all
smoke now after dinner, and that keeps them
as long as drinking wine used to in the old
days. It is a shame I think to stay away
from the ladies when it isn't necessary."

*' Oh, we don't mind, I assure you," said
Evelyn.

^' Well, I don't call that civil. Lady Fen-church
— you are not like some of the girls I
know, I hope, who pretend they do not care
a bit about gentlemen's society. It is such a
nonsensical fad and can't be true."

'^ I like men's society very well."

'•' Of course you do. You are a woman of
taste, I am sure'' At that instant Lady
Fenchurch noticed a cold glitter in Sir
Hilary's blue eye (no eye can express such
steely impenetrability as an orb of that
colour) ; he stood a little way off, playing
with his watch-chain and talking to Mrs.
Grimsby. They seemed to be speaking of
her, but probably that was only her own
fancy. She scarcely heard the pretty speeches

the stock-broker poured into her ear, it was
as much as she could do to sit still. She
was heartily glad when the evening drew to
an end, and she once more started to drive
home. She leant back in the carriage, pretending
to sleep. Sir Hilary was not asleep ;
she could see through a slit in her half-oj^en
eyes that he was looking out at the moonlight,
with his head bent forward. He
helped her carefully to alight, when they
stopped, as was his custom, and followed
her to her bedroom. She heard his slow
footsteps behind her, and an unreasoning
dread of his quiet manner, his mysterious
dogged silence, oppressed her. When they
reached her room he shut the door carefully ;
then, standing in front of the chair into which
she had sunk, he said gently,

'rand now, Evelyn, where is your pearl
necklace ? "

CHAPTER IX.

'^ I — left it at Cherry and Appleton's."

^' So I understand ; but how comes it that
the police have already been informed it is
missing, that Mr. Buck, the sanitary engineer,
whom we met at dinner to-night, says
it is the talk of West Thorpe, and that up to
this moment I have not been told of your
loss ? You must have reasons for this extraordinary
behaviour — what are they ? "

Sir Hilary's calm tone reassured his wife,
she forgot that he had a magistrate's training,
and was aware from long experience of
the disadvantage of flurrying a witness.

^' 1 had better tell you the truth," she
said.

^' Certainly, that is the wisest course— if
you can."

'^ I broke the string of my necklace some

days ago ; it was careless of me, for I knew
how particular you were about it, so I
stupidly did not tell you, and took the pearls
into Cherry and Appleton's to be mended''

'' Which day was that ? "

^' You know, Tuesday last, when you
were cross with me''

^^ Ah — the day you met Dick Carrol''

^^Yes."

^' Did you tell him about the necklace ? "

'^ Yes — I think I did — he asked me where
I had been."

^^ Exactly, and then "

'then I called for it to-day, and the
jeweller said it had been already taken
away by a young man.

'' Mr. Dick Carrol ? "

^* Yes, that was what he said — how do you
know ? "

^' Every one knows it now. Buck told
me."

'^ I was very angry, I knew you would
reproach me for carelessness. I said that I
believed you would never employ Messrs.
Cherry and Appleton again "

'' Why (lid you not tell me this ? "

'^ Because you were so displeased on

Tuesday, I did not want to annoy you
again, and I thought the necklace would be
found."

'' Lady Fenchurch, that was not your
reason. You were afraid to tell me because
you knew who had it ''

^* I — who — what do you mean ? "

^^Is it necessary to explain? — your lover
had lost money and you gave him the pearls
to pay his racing debts ; the devotion of
woman is indeed marvellous — I should never
have thought it of you — you look so quiet —
and you are so impulsive."

'^ Hilary — no — you cannot '' Evelyn

jumped up, and as she did so her cloak
slipped down and exposed her dazzling white
shoulders and the glittering string of diamonds
round her neck. ^^ I swear to you
this is not true. I have never told you an
untruth yet ; indeed, indeed this is not so."
'^ But you have deceived me already," he
said, growing grim in spite of his ruddiness,
'^ and you will deceive me again." Then he
sat down, while she looked at him helplessly,
wondering what would happen next. She
seemed to be assisting at the agony of some
other person ; now the first moment of

tremor had passed by, she was perfectly calm,
and simply waited. Sir Hilary got up
again, his face was purple, he seemed wrestling
with impotent passion. ^' That young
ass ! to think you should befool me so — my
God ! — what are women made of ? "

Hilary, calm yourself'' said Evelyn, and
her voice was like the voice of a ghost, it
sounded so dim and far away.

'' You, whom I was so proud of " He

had not loved her particularly, but he had
been proud of her — he had cherished his
possession. He grew silent again, and the
silence between those two was most oppressive.
The bed-candle flickered in lonely
twinkling on the large dressing-table, decked
out in maize ribbons and white lace ; Evelyn
in her agitation had omitted to light the
stately wax tapers in their silver candlesticks ;
the room, fitfully illuminated by the fire-rays,
was spectral with mysterious darkness and
black hidden corners, and from the shadow.
Sir Hilary's face, purple and distorted, glared
back at her like that of some evil fiend.
Evelyn grew frightened, '' Oh, Hilary —
speak to me, you frighten me."

*^ To be a laughing-stock — a thing to point

at — to be disgraced — what have you done,
Evelyn, what have you done ?" He sobbed ;
a man's sobs are terrible to listen to.

^' Oh, Hilary ! " she took him by the arm
and tried to soothe him like a child, '^ believe
me there is no harm done "

He started from her side. ^^At least he
shall suffer, the brute you prefer to me shall
suffer, I will pursue him, hunt him down,
he shall stand in a felon's dock, and I will
be there to gloat over his ruin. He is a
gentleman, and disgrace will touch him
keenly "

^^ Hilary!"

^^Yes, madam, I am not good enough,
apparently, to command your truth, but I am
good enough to be tricked — for you to take
jewels and presents from me — you can accept
my name, my position, my affection, but you
can't pay me decent respect. Well, we shall
see — it is war to the knife between us now."
Before she could answer he had left her,
and slammed the door of his dressing-room,
where he locked himself in.

Evelyn sat on stonily for a few seconds
after his departure — she felt stunned by his
violence and incapable of thought. Presently,

however, the force of conventional
habit returned, she remembered her maid
who was sitting up for her, summoned her,
and began to undress. The maid noticed
nothing, for Lady Fenchurch was silent but
as kind as usual, dismissing her as soon as
she put on her pink dressing-gown. When
she was alone, Lady Fenchurch looked around
nervously and gave a little moan. The
moan increased to a smothered sob, and presently
tears began slowly to run down her
cheeks. How rough and hard Sir Hilary
had been, all the greater contrast to his
usual polished manner ; how he had spoken
to her, to her whom men usually bowed
down to, deferentially and respectfully
adored. Even the vulgar stock-broker had
been studiously polite and shown his admiration
for her in frank and clumsy fashion.
Poor Dick, too, whom she had been so fond
of once, (the once a very long time off,) it
was hard he should be punished when he was
innocent. Poor Dick ! Whv it was his
persistence, his want of tact, his folly, that
had brought all the misery upon her. She
must not pity him, she must think of herself,
she saw her life before her, stretched out

endlessly saddened, by a great shadow of
revenge and jealousy and disorder, especially
hard to one who loved beauty and pleasantness
so much, that she was willing to sacrifice
anything for them.

She saw the choleric old man, cruel and
consistent in his purpose, standing like a
jailor over her. She had wanted so little ;
she had been satisfied with her pearls and
her pony-carriage and her pleasant boudoir,
and now the spirit of discord had scattered
all these little happiness to the wind, and
left her shivering and lonely. She remembered
to have seen women who had led unhappy
domestic lives, one in particular, who
had been handsome once, she was assured,
who was now a tall, lean, sallow woman
with the air of a century of grief upon her
pallid cheeks, and unutterable misery in her
dead eyes. All the sparkle, the vitality, had
gone out of them ; she looked exactly what
she was reduced to — a crushed being. And
Evelyn then had said to herself that she
would never succumb so, that she would
always keep her youth, her spirits, her
vigour ; now suddenly, for the first time, she
conceived a possibility of growing like that

wretched woman, of leading a crushed existence.
Love to her meant nothing so
much as gratification of vanity ; she was too
cold for the whirlwind of passion, too shallow
for the excitement of danger. She no longer
cared for Dick, and yet by some strange
grip of Fate he was destined to dog and
embitter her days. She sat thus thinking,
with a child's wild foolish longing to escape,
to fly from the ills and troubles of her lot.
She sat thus wide-eyed, a beautiful statue
in her straight falling draperies, her delicate
nostrils quivering, her hands clasping and
unclasping nervously. If she were to lose
everything, to lose Dick's love, and her
husband's trust, and his presents, and his
pride in her beauty and her dresses, what
would become of her ? She dreaded disgrace
as much as he did, but for another
reason — because of its discomforts. She never
desired a battle-alarms with the world ; she
preferred the cordial hand stretched out to
bid her welcome, and smooth the crumpled
rose-leaves in her path. Just then the stable-clock
rang out the hour, two chimes in its
full low voice sounded forth upon the still
night air. Two o'clock ! She must not sit

VOL. II. K

there any longer, or she would look pale and
ill tomorrow. Her beauty was her greatest
weapon now. She extinguished the candles
with a kind of shivering dread ; it seemed to
her as though a spirit presence filled the
chamber ; not a sound reached her from her
husband's room ; but the old oak panelling
cracked and groaned in unearthly fashion ;
the hangings seemed, to her high-strung
nerves, to wave and rustle strangely. She
flung herself quickly into bed, and tried to
remember scraps of the hymns of her youth.

When she awoke. Sir Hilary had already
gone out riding, and the maid asked her if
she would like breakfast in her own room.
He had left word she was not to be disturbed.
With a sybarite desire to defer the
disagreeable as long as possible, she accepted
the offer, dawdled over her chocolate, and
glanced at the Morning Post, trying to
imagine that there was nothing changed in
her life.

About twelve o'clock she sauntered into
the library, where Miss Fenchurch was
usually to be found knitting at the interminable
piece of work, which grew and
grew, and yet never seemed to turn into

anything. She was absent ; even her knitting
had been carefully folded up and put
away.

'^ Is every one dead in this house ? '* said
Evelyn to herself, smothering a yawn ; she
had rested badly, and felt cross and tired, but
the dread and silly fancies of the night had
evaporated. She returned idly to her own
boudoir, where the fire burnt brightly, and
amused herself by warming her tiny slippers
and playing with the pug. When at last the
luncheon - bell sounded — hungry, notwithstanding
her anxiety, and hoping to obtain
some information from her sister-in-law —
Evelyn hurried into the dining-room. Only
one place was laid, only one chair was drawn
up to the table. Then Evelyn, smothering
the pride which had hitherto kept her silent
(for there is a courage in pride which sometimes
shames the finest principle), asked for
Miss Fenchurch. The butler looked surprised,
and respectfully answered that she
had gone out for a drive into West Thorpe,
he believed, and left word that no one was
to wait luncheon. Evelyn swallowed the
meal in solemn silence under the glassy gaze
of the irreproachable servants, but she never

k2

knew what she ate, for her appetite had
completely deserted her.

'^ Will your ladyship drive this afternoon
? " inquired the obsequious servant,
polite and well-drilled, and ready to anticipate
her smallest want.

'^ No, no," she said, impatiently. ^* I require
nothing; I shall walk.'^

As she paced the shrubberies among the
dank humid beeches and the brown shoots of
the madonna, a wintry desolation overspread
her soul. The soft damp gravel yielded
beneath her light tread, and the wet grass
edges moistened her skirts. It was dreary —
dreary. To gay young hearts, heavy grey
skies and perpetual half-tints seem but as
the neutral background for their happiness ;
to sad, sick souls the gloom intensifies the
pain and increases the depression. Evelyn
just now was sadder than she had ever felt
in her life. Only one grief had befallen her
before, the death of her father, and then she
was too young to pine long. Miss Fenchurch's
kind words and sugar plums. Sir Hilary's
promise of a pony, had sufficed to calm her.
And the pony and the sugar plums still
served as the symbols of her desires. ^

Luxury, freedom, and approbation were
their names now.

In the evening Miss Fenchurch returned.
To all inquiries she only answered that she
had been to call on an old friend, the wife of
the vicar of West Thorpe, and that not
having seen her for some time she had
thought it necessary to prolong the visit
beyond the limits of a morning call. Miss
Fenchurch looked as usual, prim, starched,
and matter-of-fact. If she knew anything
abnormal had occurred, she was discreet
enough to avoid unpleasant allusions. She
brought a message from Sir Hilary to the
effect that he was detained by business, and
should not return until the morrow. Evelyn
was forced to be content with scant information
; she chafed at being left like a naughty
child out in the cold, but consoled herself by
reflecting that probably Sir Hilary was
already ashamed of his stormy ebullition of
temper, and that when she next beheld him
he would be in an angelic and repentant
frame of mind. The evening passed sociably
enough. Miss Fenchurch knitted,
and Evelyn played the piano. There was
nothing to denote the smallest ruffling of the

conjugal surface, and when Lady Fenchurch
went to bed it was with the fullest intention
of making up for the previous night's want
of sleep.

CHAPTER X.

But when next Evelyn saw her husband she
noticed a great and inexplicable change in
him. His cheeks were still ruddy, but the
red was fixed in dull patches over the cheekbone,
while the remainder of the complexion
showed a yellow white ; the mouth was set
and hard, the eyes as cold as stones ; the ,
merry twinkle that had rendered them, spite
of their small size, agreeable and expressive,
now disappeared, leaving a filmy impenetrability.
Subjected to the strictest scrutiny
the eyes gave no clue to the internal emotion.
Yet Sir Hilary was perfectly courteous and
kind to his wife ; all trace of passion had
vanished ; he addressed her in an ordinary
tone, but he avoided all occasions of being
alone with her. He confessed to being very
busy, and seemed absorbed in papers. To

Evelyn, when she first greeted him with a
somewhat anxious smile, he said casually
that she need not distress herself about the
necklace, for that it would probably soon be
restored to its owner, and the tone of his
voice as he said this was unpleasantly satirical,
but Evelyn only remarked that she was
glad, and he made no further observation.
His glance fell upon her for a moment
curiously, as if to see whether any hidden
meaning lay under her equanimity, but
apparently unable to detect anything suspicious
in her manner he presently removed
his eyes from her face. Yet all the time,
though nothing was said, though the machinery
of routine appeared admirably well-oiled,
Evelyn felt as though she were walking
over a volcano, felt as the traveller in an
Alpine pass who sees the bridge fall away
behind him into the bottomless ravine, or as
the dwellers under the shadow of a lava mountain,
who, awe-struck, listen to the almost
inaudible muttering of the terrific forces of
nature, which at any unexpected moment
may burst forth and overwhelm their humble
homestead. The sense of the inscrutable,
the sense of suspense, the sense of insecurity,

adds to the horrors of death, and the inevitable
can be even more serenely faced than
the possible or improbable. Her misgivings
were not entirely unfounded, for on Monday
Sir Hilary announced that there was a warrant
out against Dick Carrol, and that he
hoped soon to see him safely lodged in jail.

'* You have done this, Hilary ? " cried
Evelyn, the peculiar rich creaminess of her
complexion turning to a sickly yellow as she
gazed at her husband with large horror-struck
eyes. '* Why, he is an innocent
man ! "

'so you say ; well, if he is innocent he
can easily prove it, but the facts are damnably
against him." Sir Hilary recapitulated
what we know already. That Dick's
losses on Fairy Queen had been heavy, that
he had paid up everything rigidly, that on
the day aster Evelyn's first visit to the
jeweller, when, as she herself confessed, she
told Mr. Carrol of the broken necklace, a
young man, distinctly identified as Dick, by
the foreman of the shop and a boy who happened
to be present, called and took away
the pearls. " Now let him clear himself if
he can," said Sir Hilary, rubbing his hands.

'' You have done an infamous thing," said
Evelyn, forgetting her terror in the anger
her husband's conduct evolved ; '^ you did
this out of spite, though I told you as
solemnly as I could, that both he and I were
innocent."

'^ You told me so, certainly. But once
before you did not speak the truth, and I
never, a second time, trust a person who has
already deceived me."

^^ But this is horrible."

Well, you see, if you and I quarrelled
there would be a scandal ; I don't like scandals
in families ; this is a pleasant and easy
way of punishing you both, for you must
stand by me under pain of being considered
a wicked wife. Besides which, Carrol will
think that I do all this under your influence
and put it down to your displeasure at his
marriage. I have thought it all out well. I
don't wish my little plot to fail — I have taken
every precaution."

Evelyn buried her face in her hands. Sir
Hilary seemed at that instant to reveal the
nature of a fiend incarnate. It was difficult
to believe that the elderly gentleman before
her, with mild blue eyes and innocent mute

whiskers, could be capable of so refined
and cruel a revenge, a revenge that
savoured rather of Machiavelli and an astute
Italian than of the easy morality of the
nineteenth century, where a woman solaces
her wounded feelings with a fat bundle of
bank-notes, and a man consoles himself for
his wife's neglect in the mercenary arms of
a fashionable actress. Yet there he stood on
the hearth-rug in a frivolous modern boudoir,
whose walls were hung with blue china and
peacock's feathers, where yellow vases competed
for notice on the little crazy Chippendale
tables, and a flavour of heliotrope and
patchouli, and highly-scented flowers, pervaded
the air. The idea was so thoroughly
mediaeval, the surroundings so purely
modern, that the antithesis almost reached
absurdity. But the discrepancy only increased
her horror.

^' Oh, Hilary ! reflect," she cried in
agonized tones.

You are afraid for your lover ? "

'' He is not my lover — you know he is
not."

^^ Do you mean to say that no love passages
have passed between you ? "

a

Yes, before my marriage, not since."

^^ Did he not pursue you to Switzerland,
even in your honeymoon ? "

'^ Jut not at my wish."

^^ How can I tell ? He was there, I saw
yon together with my own eyes, but I did
not believe then what I know now."

Evelyn sank back in her chair overwhelmed.
With such cold obstinacy it was
impossible to reason — all she could say would
not convince him. And the vengeance he
meant to wreak was so neatly and ingeniously
planned that she was in duty bound to
seem to lend herself to it.

'' You will have to appear in the witness-box,
and say that you told Carrol about the
necklace — how will he like that, I wonder?"

'^ I — never ! " Evelyn started up and her
fine eyes sparkled with fire. She was pale
but she was determined ; she drew herself to
her full height, and flashed contempt at her
husband. ^' Do you think I will help you
in your vile plot ? Never ! I am perfectly
certain Mr. Carrol has nothing whatever todo
with the robbery, if robbery there has
been. How do I know it is not all an

arranged conspiracy, hatched by you in your
mad folly. Mr. Carrol is a gentleman ! "

^^ And you mean to say I am not? At
least I shall guard the honour of my name —
that shall not be dragged in the mud. Take
care, do not defy me; you think I am easygoing
and forgiving; so I am in ordinary
matters; you might have had anything in
reason you pleased to ask for — you were an
old man's darling," he hissed out these words
with concentrated bitterness, ^^but you have
fooled me, and I never forgive that's''

Evelyn shrugged her shoulders and did
not answer.

Sir Hilary saw the movement, and it
roused him into madness. '' You defy me ? " ,
he cried, hoarse with excitement, ^^ you dare
defy me V

^^ I do not defy you — I wish you would becalm.
You are trying to ruin this young
man, and for aught I know you may
succeed. What will you be the better for it ?
If I loved you, you have done me an irreparable
wrong by your suspicions ; if, on the
contrary, 1 do not love you and wish to
deceive you, do you not think you are giving
me a powerful excuse by your behaviour ? ''

u

Fine words, nothing but fine words " —
Sir Hilary stamped his foot. '^ You women
are all the same ; if one listens to you for a
moment one is humbugged. Oh yes ! all
you say is very plausible no doubt — exceedingly
plausible. I must do you the justice,
my lady, to say that you speak very well,
but — the glamour is gone ; yoa can hoodwink
me no longer. Just one thing more do not
try to frustrate the ends of justice, or it will be
worse for you; you will only render me the
more pitiless, and make your own position
unbearable."

'' I think it is unbearable now'' said
Evelyn, in quiet despair She had energy
to flash out for a moment, but her natural
love of ease soon took the upper hand. She
objected no longer. If she could not save
Dick it was no use wearing herself out in
vain struggles. Sir Hilary had no key to
her character. He thought threats and
violence were the means necessary to govern
refractory women. Having hitherto spoilt
her, and treated her with exaggerated
courtesy, he now lapsed into the opposite
extreme, and allowed a greater scope to his
brutality than a less polished person might

have dared. The trammels of habit and
politeness being removed, there seemed no
alternative but unbridled passion ; and the
passion of jealousy and foiled vanity is
stronger than the passion of love — it is more
calculating and more thorough.

So Sir Hilary failed to comprehend
Evelyn's quietude, he thought she was
cowed, when she was only weary and disgusted.
She said nothing, but sat, meditatively,
with her hands folded in her lap.

^'Are you satisfied?" he asked, stopping
suddenly in his fierce back-and-forward
tramp, 'rare you satisfied? If your position
is unbearable, what is mine ? and yet weare
forced to live together for years, as long
as I am alive, like this, dragging our miserable
galley-slave existence, I knowing all
your treachery, you bitterly regretting the
loss of your lover ! "

'' I see nothing that forces us to live together."


'the laws of society, madam! which 1,
for my part, do not intend to break. You
are my wife, and you shall remain so, and
I will exact every inch of your duty towards
me ! — every inch ! You understand ? "

'' I hear," said Evelyn, passively.

And her very passivity lashed his fury
higher. What hold had he over a yielding
indifferent woman, who seemed to feel
neither sorrow nor anger ? Her cold contempt
cut him to the core. He was punishing
her, and yet she seemed to feel the
punishment less than he did himself. His
anger got the better of his prudence, in
another instant he felt that he nest strike
her. Perhaps she wished this ; perhaps she
meant to goad him into some act of unmanly
violence. He pressed his lips tightly together;
the last few days of emotion had
riddled his face with furrows ; he looked old
and ghastly, instead of ruddier and younger
than his age, as he had been wont. He
sought to regain his self-control, while that
statuesque woman sat on in her silence,
braving him, as he thought, by her indifference
He dared not trust himself to speak
again ; he walked to the door, opened it, and
strode out. Evelyn listened to his heavy
tread resounding down the passage, then she
turned to lift the pug, who was affectionately
rubbing himself against her gown, and
stroked him absently. What was to be

done? Was anything to be done? she
asked herself anxiously. Now that the
thunderbolt had fallen, it was with a sense of
gratitude that Evelyn felt she knew the
worst. She knew now what the shadow was
she had unconsciously dreaded ; she knew
the exact measure of Sir Hilary's vengeance?
and his intentions towards her. These
chiefly occupied her mind. Dick must fight
his own battles, and, as he was innocent, he
would probably fight them successfully, but
she — where could she seek a deliverer ? She
bethought herself of Miss Fenchurch. The
old maid had hitherto been kind though
formal. She had influence with her brother
and was devoted to him. It was to her
interest to heal this unhappy breach in the
family, and it was certainly to her that
Evelyn must look for assistance. She rose
calmly, too dazed and stunned for tears, and
went to the library. Miss Fenchurch was
knitting, a bunch of household-keys lay on
the table beside her. By degrees she had
resumed the charge of the household, Evelyn
caring less for supposed authority than for
her own ease. Miss Fenchurch looked up asher
sister-in-law entered, but without speak-vol.

II. L

ing. The room, plainly furnished as a
gentleman's library, was dull and homely,
the red morocco covers of the chairs faded,
the Turkey carpet worn in several places,
the heavy furniture old-fashioned, but the
large bay window let in every ray of sunshine,
and showed a wide sweep of clear
blue sky. The general effect was cheerful
and comfortable. The library was Miss
Fenchurch's favourite resort, and here she
sat the greater part of the day knitting, or
writing letters, and interviewing servants
and poor people. She could never be persuaded
to take kindly to Evelyn's boudoir,
which she irreverently designated as gimcrack,
and choke full of rubbish.

'^ Well, Rachel, are you very busy?" said
Evelyn, amiably by way of opening the
conversation.

'' Busy, I'm always busy ; if young people
didn't sit idle the devil would not have so
much to do." 4

'* I suppose you mean me, by young ^
people, Rachel?" Evelyn seated herself
beside Miss Fenchurch, and watched the
plying of the shining needles sending back
and forth their unceasing sparkle. ^^ I wish you

would not always preach at me, but say
what you have to say straightforwardly''

I have nothing to say." Miss Fenchurch
compressed her lips primly; '^ I prefer to
mind my own business''

*^ You are quite right there, but still you
know, Rachel, there are times when people's
duty is to mind some one else's business''

'^ Indeed! " The old maid knitted faster.
Her fingers seemed to fly.

'^ Don't look as if you didn't care, or were
in church where talking isn't allowed. I
want to speak to you."

'' Well, I am listening."

'^ Sir Hilary and I have had a quarrel''

^' I am very sorry to hear it. The ladies
of this house have always hitherto lived on
good terms with their husbands. There has
never been any scandal, yet''

'^ I assure you 1 dislike scandal as much
as you, but if a man will not believe you,
and flies away at a tangent with some stupid
idea he has concocted m his own brain,
what is to be done then ? "

^^ It is very unfortunate," Miss Fenchurch
said, without raising her eyes

'* But I want your advice."

l2

^' I have none to give. I do not relish
putting my hand between the bark and the
tree."

'^ If you wish to avert scandal you must.
Rachel, be kind to me; I'm very young and
you are much older and wiser."

Evelyn laid her cheek gently against Miss
Fenchurch's brown serge sleeve. The old
maid made an imperceptible gesture as if to
shake her off, and replied. :

^^ One cannot require old heads on young
shoulders, but one has a right to expect
modesty in a young wife''

Modesty, do you believe ? ''

'^ I believe nothing, I know nothing, I am
only stating my opinions."

"Rachel, I don't wish to quarrel with
Hilary."

'' That I can well imagine — you would
lose too much."

^* I want you to make it up between us."
'' Then I must decline. It is not my
business. Any interference with my brother's
private affairs, I should consider extremely
impertinent."

^' But my affairs concern you."

'' Pardon me, you only concern me as my

brother's wife He is the head of the family
and has a right to my respect."

^^Ah! then you don't care what happens
to me."

^' I should be sorry if any harm came to
you, but at the same time my brother claims
my first devotion and duty."

'^ And with those cold words, and with
that selfish policy, you dismiss me ? "

Miss Fenchurch gave a deprecatory shake
of the head.

Well then let me tell you, you are taking
the most admirable way to secure the scandal
of which you spoke just now. I appeal to my
husband, he is blinded by passion and will
not listen. I appeal to my sister-in-law, she is
blinded by prejudiced selfishness, and cannot
attend. I am alone, an orphan, young and
inexperienced, you are both of you trying
to drive me to destruction."

You use hard words. But a woman's
own virtue is her best safeguard. I cannot
drive you to do anything you do not choose,"
said Miss Fenchurch, interrupting her knitting,
and for the first time looking straight
through her spectacles at Evelyn. ^^ I forgive
you, for I remember you are young,

and not accustomed to contradiction, but you
are unjust, another fault of youth, perhaps."

^' If I am wrong," said Evelyn, throwing
herself exhausted back in her chair, "tell
me what you wish, what you are aiming at?"

I wish you and Hilary to live on good,
affectionate, and peaceable terms, as husband
and wife should — as my father and mother
did."

^V Perhaps your father and mother were
not tried as I am," said Evelyn, impatiently.

"No one is spared all annoyance; no
doubt they had their troubles, but they bore
them like gentlefolks, quietly, patiently,
nobly."

Hilary is not gentle, Hilary is not
patient."

My dear, you must understand that the
wrong under which Hilary suffers is not one
a man can bear patiently ; men's feelings are
different from ours, they are stronger, more
human, perhaps, we cannot judge. Hilary
loves you."

Does he ? " answered Evelyn, bitterly.
I do not think so, or he would believe
what I say."

Men ar hard to convince."

^' Can't you help me ? "

^' There is no help possible, that I can see,
but to subdue your pride, and to cast yourself
upon my brother's mercy."

'^ He has no mercy, and you have no
heart, or you would feel for a poor girl like
me, who has no one to advise her, and is
very unhappy."

Evelyn jumped up as she spoke, and
turned to the window. She could scarcely
restrain her tears, but her pride would not
permit her to shed them in the presence of
one who arrogated to herself rather the
right to condemn, than the privilege of
soothing a grief she could not understand.
She gazed out of the window. The garden
with its neat brown beds, where the crocus-heads
showed little green tips, stretched
peacefully before her ; blackbirds pecked on
the grassy lawn, and a fine thrush flew past
at that moment. Leaves were beginning to
burgeon ; worms and insects to emerge from
their long winter slumber ; there was a
springlike vigour and anticipation in the air,
and she alone stood like some poor criminal
waiting to be lectured and advised.

'' I strongly recommend you to be meek

and humble, it is far more appropriate in a
woman ; you will disarm my brother by submission,
and you can never hope to battle
against his will. His determination, his
energy, is greater than yours ; though an
elderly man he is hale and hearty, and has
all the vigour of youth ; a woman must be
defeated in any real contest with a man in
the position of my brother ; believe me, give
in now and you will live to see the justice of
my counsel." Miss Fenchurch droned on in a
flatly monotonous voice. ^' And if I humiliate
myself, what then — what can you promise
me ? " A vision of peace crossed Evelyn's
mind for an instant ; if the price were not too
heavy, perhaps she would pay it, and restore
to herself her comforts, her ease, her husband's
indulgence.

'^ What can you promise me?"

^' Forgiveness, and, in time, reinstallation
into favour. Those are reasonable terms."

'' And meanwhile to be treated like a culprit,
to be watched and suspected, and
scolded, for I know he would find fault, and
you too, in your cold reproving fashion ; no,
no, I had rather manage my own affairs, only
remember this, whatever happens, Hilary's

obstinacy and your want of sympathy have
driven me to it."

Hilary's obstinacy ! ''

No one had ever spoken so disrespectfully of
her brother before ; the old maid clasped her
hands in horror, and peered over the top of
her spectacles, but Evelyn did not stay to
hear the comment on her daring speech.
She opened the window and let herself out
into the garden, where, to complete her utter
infringement of all the rules of propriety, she
ran along the gravelled paths boundless.

'' Young folks, young folks ! " muttered the
old maid to herself, "" God grant us grace to
be patient with them." It was then that
Evelyn decided to send for Dick, and to
write the letter which reached him a few
days later.

CHAPTER XI.

The fir plantation was an extremely secluded
spot about a mile and a half from Oakdene,
and especially suitable for a secret meeting.
To approach it, it was necessary to traverse
some rough, boggy, common land, broken by
shallow streamlets, where sedges and coarse
grasses flourished luxuriantly. In the summertime
the foreground lay bathed in a rich
glow of purple and violet heather; in the
winter the cold north wind shrieked and
whistled over the bare, brown hillsides,
which showed dark against the chilly sky.
Beyond the common was the fir plantation,
to which a winding, sandy road gave access.
Following this road for a short distance, and
turning to the left along a narrow foot-track,
you suddenly came to a slope where, viewed

through a columned vista of red pine stems, cool
green woods bounded the horizon. Under
these pine-trees, where the earth was dry
and strewed with an aromatic carpet of fir-needles,
and the air gently moaned in a kind
of brave harmony among the tree-tops, was
the spot chosen by Evelyn to meet her lover.
Above, the sky was clear and blue, around,
the whispering green wood wrapped them in
an enchanted mantle of slumbrous silence ;
no profane eye could peer in unobserved, no
profane ear surprise their talk. Dick knew
the spot ; he had ridden that way as a shortcut
from West Thorpe to the other side of the
county, and he had always admired the
straight and splendid proportions of the
thick-lea vied pines. But it was with deep
reluctance that he obeyed Evelyn's commands
to-day. His own position was extremely irksome
and precarious, he did not desire to
rouse Sir Hilary's anger by clandestine
meetings, and the business of the election
rendered it very difficult for him to absent
himself even for a few hours ; besides this,
idle dalliance was at that instant far enough
from his thoughts. Fair as a woman maybe
and desirable as she may seem, yet if

she intrudes herself upon his notice at a
moment when her presence evokes unpleasant
memories, or her interests require special
self-denial or exertion on his part, there is
scarcely any young man who will not immediately
experience a decided cooling off in
his amorous inclinations. An unwilling lover
is colder than a person who is no lover at all —
he is more selfish, more cautious, more exacting.
The right diapason is always difficult
to catch; the moment a woman leans towards
a man that moment he starts back. Dick
was engaged , he did not love Luce, but he
felt that with her was happiness, and safety,
pecuniary advantage even if Mr. High view,
as was most likely, dowered her liberally ;
with Lady Fenchurch, on the contrary, he
faced only disgrace, fear, and snatched hours
of bliss, which, conferred against his will,
might turn into endless spaces of torment.
Still he never thought of shrinking from the
consequences of his own undisciplined
emotions, he never for an instant interested

(Do

to himself that he could desert the woman he
had loved so deeply ; he only desired that
propitious circumstances might render self-sacrifice
unnecessary, for, above all, whatever

his faults, Dick was a gentleman, that is to
say, his innate nobleness forbade him to
injure a woman. He had a chivalrous regard
for the fair sex, and, indeed, would not
have hurt a hair of any one's head could he
have avoided it. But the consequences of
our actions do not seem the less bitter
because we have drawn them on ourselves ;
the apple of love is as much dead sea fruit
when we have at the cost of infinite pain
stretched out our hand to seize it, as when
it has been merely thrust into our unwilling
hands. When Dick rode up to the fir plantation
he wished women, love, and marriage,
at the devil, he wished he had never seen
Evelyn, and he fervently wished that she
would have arranged her own affairs with
her husband and left him peaceably to pursue
his own adventures. Moodily he climbed
the sandy road, where he tied his horse to a
strong young fir-tree. Even the soft and
quiet beauty of the spot scarcely reconciled
him to the odious half-hour that was in store.
Shafts of light flashed through the deep
green branches, and shot the tender mosses
with gold, and the bright red stems with
deeper colour. Down in the hollow the firs

and evergreens formed masses of glossy
vivid green, and the branches, moving softly,
sighed and whispered above his head. On
a bank of heather, dry as was everything
under the broad canopy of the pine-trees, he
found Evelyn, looking prettier than ever in
her dark furs and hat with scarlet-tipped
feathers, waiting for him.

^' I am in time, surely'' he said, pulling
out his watch as she stretched forth her hand
to him.

Oh yes, yes, I was too soon — I was
anxious."

^^ Do you know it was very imprudent of
you to come here ? '' he said, looking suspiciously
round ; ^' we may be watched.'

She had sunk back again on the mossy
seat; he stood uneasily in front of her.
They certainly did not seem like a pair of
lovers, and yet nothing could well be more
compromising than their interview, '* I felt
that I must see you," she answered, sadly.
The positions were reversed. She dio had
been queen, who had held him at arm's length,
from the height of her grace and dignity,
now humbly sued for an attention which

he only gave her grudgingly, coldly, and
abstractedly.

'' What had you to say ? '' he asked, resigning
himself to the inevitable, and sitting
beside her on the mossy bank.

'' How changed you are," she said, softly,
without a trace of her usual gay coquetry ;
^' how changed ! I scarcely think you still
love me."

'listen!" he said. *sin a day or two
comes the polling, I am over head and ears in
business ; thanks to your — husband, and his
vile accusations, I shall probably lose the election
and perhaps my grandmother's fortune ;
everything at this instant is trembling in the
balance, another week may see me a ruined
man ; is this the time to talk of love ? "

'^ I am unhappy," she said, simply; '^ and
through you — through your imprudence and
folly "

So am I unhappy. God knows I curse
myself for my folly — I have been idiotic —
mad — accept my deep regret — still, how can
I help you ? "

'^ Oh, Dick, say a kind word to me, think
what you used to protest and vow— how you
told me I was dearer to you than anything

on earth — think what you asked me in
Switzerland."

^^I was a fool," he said, roughly. '' You
were wise then — why not let us be wise
now ? ''

*^ Because my life is wretched — because
my husband suspects me, and hates me, and
because I have none but thou, Dick." He
did not answer ; he looked moodily on the
ground, and made little holes in the moss
with his riding-cane. The tears coursed
down Evelyn's cheeks as she spoke, clear
pearl-like tears streaming from those beautiful
brown eyes which it had been his privilege
to compare to stars. '' You cannot
desert me," she said, with a sob.

'^ Of course, I shall not leave you in any
difficulty; of course, we must support each
other — though I don't see what good I can
be to you— wdiy, for instance, run this unnecessary
risk ? — if your husband surprised
you here with me, what would he say? — it
would justify all his suspicions."

^^ He is gone into West Thorpe, and is not
likely to come here. Oh, Dick, I do not
understand you." Dick scarcely understood
himself, he only knew that the former fascination

of beauty left him calm and impassive,
that event he tears which dropped
from her star-like eyes irritated instead of
melting him, and that it was with difficulty
he restrained himself from addressing rough
words to her, and reproving her for the folly,
which was leading him and herself into
danger.

'' Did you only wish to see me in order to
ask me to stand by you ? Surely you know
me well enough to know I should behave
honourably in the matter ; or did you think
me a thief — shall I swear to you that I am
innocent ? "

'^ As if I did not know that — of course
you are — but we are both terribly unfor-
tunate—however, never mind that now, what
is done, is done ; don't look so gloomy, talk
to me a little, I want to be comforted'*
Dick's handsome face was clouded with annoyance
; a man hates to feel he fas committed
an egregious mistake ; his eyes were
still bent on the ground and the holes with
which the moss at his feet was now perforated.
He was restless, unhappy, dissatisfied
with himself and his companion.

VOL. IT. M

^'Dick, Dick, have you no heart?" she proceeded,
reproachfully. " Don't you feel forme?
remember how happy I used to be before
I met you ; " the tears coursed down again
faster,

'* Don't cry, pray don't cry, I can't bear
to see you unhappy," he said, with a clumsy
attempt at sympathy.

'^ Can't you, really ? " she answered, more
cheerfully, looking up and drying her eyes.
^ ^ Am I still precious to you ? if I were alone
and friendless would you not forsake me?
if Sir Hilary is too dreadfully cruel, and
makes my life a penance, would you care
for me and help me ? "

^ It is far better we should not meet again —
don't you see why ? Sir Hilary is an old man,
in the course of nature he cannot live long,
I think it is your duty to try and please him
and get on well "

'* You never spoke like that in the old
days," she said, opening her eyes with surprise.
^^ I tell you I am miserable, miserable;
you don't know what that house is like, how
gloomy, how dull, how dreary. I wander
about without a soul to speak to all day."

%4

Her voice had a ring of passion mixed with
the sorrow.

*^ Lady Fenchurch, you possess carriages,
and servants, and friends, and you can pay
visits "

^^ Lady Fenchurch! — oh— then you have
quite forgotten everything."

^^ I have not forgotten that you begged
me never to call you Evelyn again."

^' That is all changed now; I never
expected Sir Hilary would turn out a
Tartar."

'' And I never expected you would care
for my attentions again. You spurned them
once. You snubbed me'' The young
man's voice grew hard and bitter ; he was
working himself up to a sense of injury - it
is so much easier to quarrel with a person
under a feeling of angry grievance — '^ and
now I am engaged to be married."

^' Yes, to a plain girl whom you don't
love."

Lady Fenchurch's eyes flashed. She
looked supremely handsome.

'' I respect and like her extremely''

'^ And you are content with that ? I

M 2

compliment you ; you are more easily
pleased than in the old days,"

'you yourself taught me not to regret
the old days."

Evelyn was silent. She never contemplated
the possibility that Dick might
change. She had felt so sure of her own
influence, her unchallenged supremacy, that
she thought to play with him, to cast him
from her, and to bring him to her feet again
without difficulty. She despised the power
poor Luce could wield, and believed that
her star must pale whenever handsome
Evelyn willed it so. Dick's coldness puzzled
and annoyed her. She forgot her grief fora
moment in her desire to win him back ;
she deployed the witchery and charm that
had drawn him to her formerly ; she ceased
complaints, and sought to bring a smile to
his lips. And at last she succeeded. Dick
was human. He was not impervious to
woman's wiles and to the magnet of persuasive
beauty.

"And you do love me a little bit still;
you haven't forgotten me quite ; you will
befriend me and serve me when I need it,

and I ask you," she said after a while,
triumphantly.

^' Certainly I will ; I have promised you
this ; but pray do not be reckless, remember
how horribly precarious my situation is, and
how very happy and comfortable you are at
Oakdene."

^^Not while Sir Hilary torments me," said
Evelyn, with a pout.

^' Well, try your best to be conciliatory ;
pray, for my sake ; what should we do, you
and I, cast adrift upon the world without a
penny?"

'' You only think of yourself."

^' No, indeed; I think of you." He
glanced at her tasteful dress, her pretty hat,
and her delicately-gloved hands. *' You are
not fitted for poverty ; I could not bear to
see you without proper comforts, fragile and
tender as you are ; believe me, let us try to
avert such a calamity at any price."

To be with me a calamity ? " she looked
prettily reproachful.

'^ No ; but a calamity for you to be unhappy,
dear''

'' Ah, you speak very kindly and considerately,"

she said, in a discouraged voice;
'' but I believe you do not care for me,
really. I am a burden ; you wish to be rid
of me."

He assured her somewhat lamely she was
mistaken, but Evelyn was too clever to be
easily deceived.

These two people in one of the most solemn
and critical moments of their lives played a
game of finessing and skill together, trying to
conceal the true thoughts of their hearts by
the unreal words on their lips. Neither was
happy, but each tried to reassure the other.
Neither believed in the other, and both
sought to drown the suspicion as it rose.
Her vanity, her love of luxury and admiration,
prompted her to desire his allegiance ;
his selfishness taught him to profess the
affection he could not feel. A melancholy
ending surely to the bright dream of love
they had both once nursed. A sufficient
proof, had one been needed, that love based
on self can never stand the stress of tribulation.
The woman, beautiful and perfect in
her hour of prosperity, seemed to him now
but a poor toy for which to risk all ; she,

perhaps, of the two, was least actuated by
sordid motives; for, though she sought assistance
from him, she really experienced the
kindliness and sympathy he only professed.
Spite of himself Dick felt the difference in
the love of the two women who competed
for his heart — the love of Luce and the love
of Evelyn. He saw that the one was pure
and guileless, the other polluted with self-interest.
And as they parted affectionately
in appearance, he thought, ^' Provided only
she will consent to be sensible and cease to
make fresh difficulties and discords, and just
let these evil times pass over till something
fortunate occurs.'^ And she said to herself,
^' If I can only regain my old hold over him
so that he shall not desert me, but be ever
there ; a protector in case of need, a resource
in moments of dullness, provided I can show
him this is his duty, so that I may trust to
his sense of honour." And under the still
solemn trees in the sweet hush of nature
they parted, their hearts full of wild and
bitter thoughts. She glided off with her
graceful dainty movements through the trees
away into the blue distance, to the home

which was now wretched and discordant,
and left her lover alone, unhappy, disappointed,
tied and bound in honour to the
woman who had become to him a burden
and a torment.

CHAPTER XII.

Bruce sat writing at the little old mahogany
table in the inn window surrounded by
books and papers, his brow clouded with
thought. Occasionally he dropped his pen,
and looked out on to the narrow street, busy
with market carts and gay with foot-passengers
wending their careless way along.
But his gaze was the abstract gaze of the
thinker who knows and sees nothing of the
common world around him ; he noticed none
of the little street scenes, the universal
comedies, the dramas of life and passion
being enacted before him For him the
ideal surpassed the actual. His thoughts
were introspective, inductive ; he was seeking
to reconstruct the past, to evolve from
the fragments that survived, a perfect picture
of a long-vanished state of society. And so

long as his thoughts were thus busily occupied,
his brain active, his heart dormant, so
long he was happy. Sometimes, however,
when his dull weary brain flagged, the
pen fell from his nerveless hand, the tired
limbs relaxed their cramped attitude, and
nature reasserted herself over intellect — then
the shadow of a great loneliness fell upon
him, and he sighed unconsciously. The life
of the intellect is splendid, but it is incomplete
; the sage himself is wise, because he
knows this. Pascal, abjuring the love of
woman, cast himself in abject adoration at
the feet of a great and terrible God, Goethe
compelled his weighty intellect to toy with
the simple worship of a child. The common
passions of humanity could not content such
men ; their aspirations — seeking, groping
blindly — soared ever higher and higher until
they accepted loneliness ; the solitude of the
spirit is the earnest and penalty of genius.
The great thinker, the great reformer, must
ever be lonely ; it is only on the bleak
heights — the storm-swept mountain-top —
that the eagle builds his eyrie. He feels
a void, but perhaps in that void lies his
greatness, the future in its germ ; or

perhaps it is but the natural craving of the
flesh for gratification, the rebelling of the
material against the immaterial, the gentle
reminder that we are human. Be that as it
may, Bruce was human, though he had a
great intellect and a supreme love of work,
and he occasionally felt lonely, felt so especially
when he looked around and compared
his fate with that of others —bright,
busy butterflies, to whom love and happiness
seemed to come without effort or desire. It
needed merely that they should be good-looking,
young, and easy tempered, and the
world's benefits were showered in their laps.
They toiled not, neither did they spin ; but
others toiled and spun for them, and they *
reaped the benefit. They were not troubled
either by fears, forebodings, or anxiety such
as beset other men, and in their security
lay their strength. They faced the world
bravely, unquestioningly, with faith and hope,
and faith and hope never proved barren.
Dick, for instance, how had he deserved the
love of a woman like Luce, whose heartstrings
might crack in the terrible strain to
which they were subjected, but who would
remain true to the core ? And friends, too

what kept Bruce devoted to him, so that
even his own work suffered while he laboured
for his friend ? Was it Dick's insouciance,
was it his careless friendship, a friendship
so lukewarm that for years it had not seemed
to him worth while to seek out the humble,
toiling student? Vague and unsatisfactory
as the answers to these questions might be,
Bruce felt that Dick could rest secure in his
affection, and in that of his old grandmother,
who in her simple fashion loved and trusted
him implicitly. Bruce argued to himself that
he advocated friendship as a duty, a privilege,
and a pleasure ; that the object was
independent of the method of application ;
that love for one special person meant but the
focussing into one point of the general love
of humanity. He took up his pen again
with rigid determination, and wrote on continuously
till the door opened and admitted
Dick, heated, wearied, and somewhat cross.
A compulsory love-scene possesses some
special quality of acrid irritation. Dick felt
angry with himself and angry with Evelyn
for exposing him to self-contempt.

^^ Dick, I have wanted you," said Bruce,
cheerfully, looking up from his work with

a gentle smile ; ^^ there is still so much to be
done, and Mr. High view will be here shortly.
Have you lunched ? "

^* Yes, no," Dick threw himself on to a
sofa; ''I don't want any luncheon."

'' Have you thought about your speech tonight
? a good deal will depend upon that."

'^ I'm sick of this speechifying," said
Dick, rubbing his fingers through his hair;
'^ I shall be heartily glad when it's all over.
I don't care a fig whether I get in or not
now."

Julian sighed ; after the pains bestowed on
his pupil, such an answer could scarcely be
considered satisfactory.

Oh yes, I hear you sigh, and know all '
you are going to say. You're always scribbling,
and I'm ungrateful, and a sinner, and
everything that is bad. Don't you ever mean
to stop working, Julian ?"

*^ How can I? there is so much to do. I
suppose when I am dead it will be said of
me, ' he died learning.' "

Why the deuce do you talk of dying? I
don't know what's come to you, old fellow ;
you're gloomy enough for anything. I suppose

it is being with me — I'm certainly not
cheerful."

'^ You are naturally anxious'' remarked
Bruce.

^* I'm not anxious about the election, but
the thought of disgrace, of a jail, is never
absent from my mind."

'^ I have not much fear of that; but now
come let us discuss your speech."

'^ What a friend you are Julian, I wish I
had half your energy," said Dick, still not
moving from the sofa. '' I can't get up any
interest in politics."^

No interest in politics ? Why, they are
all important, the first duty of a citizen ; the
most engrossing study a man can devote
himself to."

*^ Your ideas are not of the usual order; asa
rule poetics mean ambition, and the advantages
a man can get for himself from a
government or a party," said Dick, lazily.

'^ True; perhaps you are too young to care
for these things yet. I suppose love occupies
all your thoughts now."

Love ! I hate the sound of the word."

^* Indeed then I am at a loss how to prescribe

; love palls upon you, patriotism leaves
you cold.'

'ewe have not mentioned patriotism; I
suppose I should fight for my country if I
were a soldier ; in fact, I think that is what
I am best fitted for."

*^ Patriotism means love of country ; to bea
good citizen one must have public feeling ;
what is that but politics ? we are arguing
in a circle."

You will say next, that to vote at an
election is a kind of religion."

Not religion, but a part of it. Citizenship
is as important a factor in public life as
family life, and, though religion cannot
make you clever, it ought to teach you to bean
honest man. It is the divorce in the code
of principle between private life and public
life that causes all the mischief. People do
not choose to see the political significance of
certain rules of action, and thus in trying to
be loyal to their party they become faithless
to their own soul.

"I never think of my soul especially,"
remarked Dick. ' ' There is time enough for
that."

'' Saving your soul does not mean going

to church and mumbling long prayers, it
means keeping it pure, and true, and untroubled,
and that is as necessary for a
politician as a sinner, perhaps more necessary,
for there is such a thing as the conventional
political conscience — a composite
article made up of bribes, prejudices, compromises,
and expediency."

^ ^ A kind of old man of the sea, I suppose !
Thank Heaven I have no conscience."

Don't say such things. I never believe
men who boast of their vices. What I
meant to say was, that ecclesiastical tendencies
may be wrong, old-fashioned, or
harmful. Christian feeling never."

•'I did not know you were a bigot, Julian.
I thought you preferred history to the
Thirty-nine Articles."

"Did I speak of the Thirty-nine Articles?
My religion teaches me to believe in the
omnipotence of the principle of good, in the
joy of doing, and the reality of truth.
Religious men have neglected, politics, they
have allowed them to become the arena of
all the bad passions, of the strife and clash
of envy and discontent. They have wrapped
themselves in the mantle of indifference, and

thanked God they were not as other men ;
they have ignored the love of their country,
and forgotten the rich promise of the future
bequeathed us by our fathers ; they "

Stop, my dear fellow ! I must think of
my speech, and you are giving me a
sermon."

Bruce laughed. Warmed with his subject,
and carried away in an excess of enthusiasm,
he forgot that he was speaking aloud, in a
language that seemed Greek to the young
man beside him. He checked himself, and
patiently produced a clean sheet of foolscap
and a pencil, and handed them to Dick, who
condescended to shake himself like a great
sleepy bear, and to rise and walk up and
down the room cigar in mouth, a practice
that he said assisted the brain. Julian
threw in a word or suggested a sentiment
occasionally, and the speech was progressing
fairly when Mr. Highview knocked at the
door. He was accompanied by Gubbins as
lively and alert as ever.

'' Well, how goes it ? " said Mr. Highview.
a Working I perceive ; that's right. I like
to see young men in earnest."

VOL. II. N

Dick made a face, and Gubbins remarked,
'' I'm very hopeful now, very hopeful.
Sir Hilary's last speeches have been extremely
wild, his conduct strange ; seems
to have lost his head ; people are disgusted
with him ; they think that attack of his upon
you a mean business."

'' They don't believe it then ? " said
Dick, looking up quickly.

'^ Believe it ! bless you, no — put it down
to an election dodge. The thing was so
unlikely''

'^ After all, Dick, there is some good in
being a gentleman," interposed Mr. High-view,
kindly. Thanks to Luce's persuasion
he had espoused Dick's cause far more
warmly than he had ever thought possible.
With some difficulty he disposed of Lady
Eleanor's entreaties that he would stand
himself for Parliament, and entered heart
and soul into the young man's prospects.

^' We'll pull you through, my boy ! " he
said, heartily. '^ We'll pull you through ! "

'inspire him with a sense of responsibility,
Mr. Highview,'' said Bruce, gravely. '' He
is not earnest enough ; tell him his duty to
his country demands an effort."

V

Oh yes, of course, duty to your country,
and all that you know, it sounds well, not but
what a man's own interests are generally the
stronger influence."

"• Bruce talks as if a politician were a kind
of high priest," said Dick with a smile.

^' Ah yes, quite right ; Church and State,
though I am not myself what is usually called
a religious man, never was troubled with
doubts, always went to church as an example —
but I can't stand too much of the parsons;
they're narrow you know, Bruce, very
narrow," said Mr. High view, promptly.

And we are not narrow," put in Grubbing.
Breadth is the guiding principle of the
Liberal party, breadth in views, breadth in
doctrine, breadth in practice, liberty in unity,
you know, widen wherever you can, pull
down barriers to progress, enlightened
catholic views, respect for the individual, and
all that kind of thing''

'^ Take care lest in widening everything
you yourselves and your party slip through
the breach, and are swallowed up in a wave
of devastation," said Mr. Highview.

'' Devastation, my dear sir ? It is we who

preserve the liberties of the people; every

N 2

man's prerogative is sacred to us — we are no
respecters of persons''

^^ Quite so," said Bruce ; sphere ought to
be no opposition between the ideas of freedom
and order ; unfortunately, history teaches
us that in doing battle for the one, men are
frequently arrayed against the other."

^^ History!" said Mr. Gubbins, jumping
up, ''I don't care two pins for history; it's
actuality, the practical, that matters. Why,
sir, I have a map of all the constituencies —
the Liberal electors are increasing everywhere
; I mark them red, the red threatens
to cover the whole of the map. That's a
truer criterion than your mouldy one-sided
histories. How can any man write impartially?
It stands to reason, each of us is a
partizan of our own side, we shouldn't be
men if we weren't ; well, then, how can you
believe history ? it only represents the
opinions of the writer."

'' Mr. Bruce here is a historian."

^^ Indeed, sir ! well, I beg your pardon if
I've hurt your feelings, but at least you are a
Liberal, so your history is sure to be all right
and satisfactory''

'^ Now, now to business'* said Mr. High-view,

impatiently; ^^ we did not come to talk
of history but to do business. What is the
programme — what has to be done to-day ? "

Mr. Gubbins immediately rose to the
occasion, he put on the confidential agent's
air, and explained the dangers, the necessities,
and the advantages of the situation. He
knew which voter was shaky and which
could be depended upon; his dodges and
resources were inexhaustible, his fertility of
invention unbounded.

''• Most valuable person, most valuable,"
whispered Mr. Highview to Dick ; ^ ^ is as
familiar with the voters as a musician with
the keys of his instrument. I assure you
he will pull you through if any man can.
Your friend there is a charming fellow, buta
bit of a visionary ; no use being visionary,
great thing is to be practical. That's where
Lady Eleanor excels ; wonderful practical
woman, far-reaching views, an unfailing
instinct, almost second-sight, I call it! She
picked you out at once as a promising candidate."


"I am afraid she has lost her faith in me,"
said Dick, stealing a look at Bruce and the
agent v/ho were mutually buttonhole one

another in the corner. ^^ I do not expect
she takes much interest in my success or
failure now."

'^ You are mistaken, nothing pleases Lady
Eleanor like success. If you become our
member, I myself will take you to her triumphantly.
I can promise yoa a favourable
reception and my niece's hand as well.
That's worth working for, eh ? Luce is
very much attached to you, very much ; a
quiet girl, but a good girl, though I say it,
eh ? "

'you are too kind." Dick flushed. The
thought of Lady Fenchurch started to his
memory and poisoned the pleasure good
Mr. Highview's encouragement would have
afforded him. What did it matter if Luce
were good and loving? she could be nothing
more to him now. He was bound in
honour to stand by Lady Fenchurch, to
shelter and protect her in the unhappy
position to which his own folly and her
vanity had led her. He passed his hand across
his brow. Mr. Highview saw the action and
attributed it to weariness and discouragement.
^^I believe you will be member yet.
I really do," he said. '^ The Conservatives

have not a chance just now. Sir Hilary has
done himself harm by his vindictiveness ;
there is moderation in all things, and to
take out warrants against gentlemen is
positively unpardonable. Lady Eleanor
thinks so too ; she is far more amiably
inclined towards you now than I had ever
hoped ; she has a fine judgment, a very fine
judgment, and she is really partial to you is
my lady. It all depends upon you now, my
boy. You must pull yourself together and
show energy.'

"Yes, I will do my best," said Dick, preparing
to follow the agent and Bruce who
were already half v,^ay down stairs.

CHAPTER XIII.

^^ Well ? " said Mrs. Vincent, the same day,
interrogatively to her husband, when in
muddy riding-boots and splashed coat he
entered the room.

^^ Well ! I've been in the town and heard
the last news. I believe Dick has as good a
chance as ever."

*• Impossible ! " Mrs. Vincent laid down
her work and looked meditatively at Dolly
and Eliza's brown heads, whispering and
nodding together, as usual, in a corner.

Leave the room, my dears, and go and
see if Granny wants anything."

Dolly and Eliza departed, obediently, to
grumble together, outside the door, at the
hardship of being prevented from hearing
an interesting conversation between their
elders.

^'Is it about an elopement, do you think''
said Dolly, who was inclined to be romantic.
I caught the word * disgraceful love
affair' yesterday between papa and mamma."

^^ It is more likely to be something about
money," answered Eliza, who was of a
practical turn of mind; ^^ perhaps we shall
not get any new frocks."

^^ Love has nothing to do with money,"
persisted Dolly; ^^ I know I am right about
the love affair."

^^ It's ^ much ado about nothing,' then,"
said Eliza, contemptuously, ^' I'll be bound,
mamma always makes mysteries about trifles.
It's just like the fuss she gets into when
we read novels without asking. Why .
Mary Jones at the Rectory lends me all
Ouida's and Miss Boughton's books, and
mamma is none the wiser if I read them in
bed and keep them under my pillow."

'^ You always were sly," retorted Dolly,
'^ Come along now or mamma will pounce out
upon us. Perhaps Granny will give us
something if we ask her."

'^ You're a regular sponge," said her sister,
always trying to see how much you can
get, and yet your frocks are invariably

stained before mine, and you are never fit to
be seen."

'^ Hush now'* said Dolly, drawing her
away.

Grranny still spent most of her time in her
bed-room; she had never recovered the shock
caused by Mrs. Vincent's rudely blabbing
out the story of the warrant and by Dick's
departure. The slender thread of life had
been sorely jarred and still quivered and
vibrated painfully. Granny did not suffer
except from weakness ; her serene temperament
reasserted itself, her calm mind
remained clear as ever, but the old lady's
constitution had received a blow from which
it might never rally. She needed the most
tender and delicate handling, and Mrs.

Vincent's treatment, though doubtless correct
and moral, was somewhat drastic. She

scolded Granny if she cried, she exhorted
her when she was sad and silent, she reproved
her for sighing, and ordered her to sit still
and inactive for fear of over-fatigue, when on
the contrary moderate and interesting occupation
would have distracted her thoughts
and assisted her recovery Granny left her
bed, but she was too weak to care to drive

or walk, and she spent the greater part of her
time in an armchair reading or working.
Dolly and Eliza usually sat beside her.
Their constant companionship proved a little
wearisome to the old lady who was accustomed
to solitude for many hours in the day,
but the fear of appearing ungracious, and her
exquisite tact, enabled her to endure the young
ladies' society with a smile. Luce had been
over to see her again, but under Lady
Eleanor's escort, which considerably detracted
from the pleasure of her visit, and she and
Granny had been permitted only the shortest
of tete-a-tetes. However in this brief space
Luce found an opportunity to deliver Dick's
message, his expression of contrition for the
past and promise of good behaviour for the
future.

'^ Dear fellow," said Granny, wiping her
eyes; '' I knew his heart was good. If he
has done any thing wrong. Luce, it was
rather from want of thought than heartless -
ness. Mrs. Vincent will not give him credit
for anything, but I am sure her sons have
faults too."

'' We must have patience," said Luce,

caressingly.

'* Yes, my dear, but you forget I am old; if
I should not live to see him righted "

Do not think about that," said Luce,
kissing lier again. '* Have faith in the
future."

And the old lady tried to cultivate faith,
though she was sorely exercised by the condition
of things in the household at Long
Leam.

As soon as Dolly and Eliza had closed the
door Mrs. Vincent began again.

^' Surely the people will not be so mad as
to elect a man who has committed a felons'*

'^ They do not believe it," said uncle
Vincent, gloomily ; *' sometimes I myself
think it is a mistake; Dick always was a
gentleman I wish I had not yielded to
your advice and taken part against him. I
believe it was wrong, Maria."

'' Tut, tut! " Mrs. Vincent's pale face
flushed and she pressed her thin lips tightly
together. She was playing a dangerous
game and a difficult game, but it was in a
good cause. Mrs.Vincent comforted herself
with the thought that she was an irreproachable
wife, and a devoted mother. All that
she did was for the children's sake, her very

faults became good qualities when viewed in
the pleasing light of maternal love.

But her husband's weakness and vacillation
irritated her. If people worked for
their families, as they were bound to do,
silly scruples must stand aside, obstacles that
hindered success must be brushed away.
Dick was an obstacle, and, if he suffered in
the process, his feelings and interests were
of no importance compared with the object
she had in view. Great conquerors regarded
humanity in the mass ; individuals probably
endured hardships and injustice, but the
aggregate sum of good must alone be considered
in the result. Mrs. Vincent looked
upon herself in the light of a great conqueror
she laid her plans carefully ; she marched
relentlessly on where she had decided, and
crushed the opposition that dared to rear its
head. A singular chance had toppled over
Dick's position ; she had not sought it, nor
intrigued for it, but when the opportunity
presented itself, she seized it greedily. Mrs.
Vincent was a great stickler for duty ; her
duty towards her children occupied a large
share of her thoughts, and she was inflexible
in its pursuit. To this end she lost no

occasion of impressing Granny with her convictions,
keeping well before her the iniquity
of bequeathing property to a young man who
was a spendthrift and a gambler on the turf,
and stood in imminent danger of becoming
a convicted felon. She knew Mrs. Carrol's
fears and her carefulness lest she should
not make proper use of the gifts conferred
upon her husband, and of the uncontrolled
responsibility with which he had invested
her. She traded upon this holy feeling, and
talked, as she well knew how, of duty and
self-sacrifice, until poor Granny sometimes
put her hands to her aching head and cried
out in despair. But she could not so easily
manage her husband. Though unscrupulous
and devoid of moral feeling, he had all a
man's natural contempt for crooked ways ; he
did not object to ruining Dick but he would
have preferred to fight openly. Though he
blustered and swore, moreover, he was a
coward at heart, and his wife knew it and
took advantage of her knowledge. It was
cowardice that prompted him to deny all
knowledge of the cheque Dick had cashed at
his own request. He accused no one, he
simply kept silence, which served the purpose

amply. He feared to confess to his wife his
folly in buying a racehorse that had broken
down ; he cherished the letter in which Dick
had talked of the purchase, and believed
there was no one to prove that Vincent had
ever owned it. All transactions had passed
in Dick's name, and his uncle flattered himself
he had thus procured immunity in case of
disaster. But his conscience, rather a composite
mixture of fear and cunning than any
real moral coercion, left him little peace.
He wondered that Dick had not attacked
and defied him more openly. He expected
every day that the blow would come, and
that, spite of all the fine words and excuses
with which he armed himself, he would be
exposed and undone. He was afraid of his
wife, a far cooler and subtler plotter than
himself ; he was afraid of Dick, for whom he
entertained a sneaking partiality and sporting
comradeship, but he was honest to
neither. Of the two, he preferred to throw
in his lot with Mrs. Vincent, who would profit
him most, and was most difficult to deal with.
As he talked to her now, warming himself in
front of the fire, with the kind of feeling
that ease gave him security, and looked at

her cold hard face, her determined eye, and
the strong bony hands — which never for an
instant ceased from their busy plying of the
needle in some household work, at which she
was an adept and found it her pleasure to excel
he thought her a woman not to be tampered
with. Breathing a sigh, he gave up Dick to
his fate, even while he remembered the
sunny insouciant nature of the young man,
and the kindliness and good-nature he had
always shown him.

^'If only the warrant had been served!"
said Mrs. Vincent, regretfully. '' Sir
Hilary's supineness is unpardonable. You
ought to stir him up ; but you are never any
use except with horses."

Uncle Vincent did not answer. He was
conscious of having made a muddle of the
very business in which his wife gave him
credit for successful management.

Have you seen Sir Hilary ? " she asked
again, knitting her brows. "^ Isn't he
jealous ? What's the matter with the
creature ? Did you tell him all the gossip
there was about his wife and Dick ? If he
can pass that over he, is less of a man even
than I thought."

'' I said what I could ; I hinted at imprudences,"


^' Hinted!" said his wife, contemptuously;
'^ plain speaking alone is of use. A woman
would not have made such a hash of it. If
Dick gets into Parliament our chance is lost.
Always strike while the iron is hot, and
when a man is down'*

'' That is not what we learnt at Eton'
said Vincent with a smile ; ^^ we should have
called that mean conduct."

^' I am not referring to boys but to men
and women. Do you realise that, unless
Dick is disgraced, every farthing goes away
to him ? he will marry Luce, who is fool
enough to care for him to an extent which
is positively indecent, and will not listen to
a word against him. Your children will be
beggars, but you never think of them ; you
will have to give up your horses, drink beer
instead of wine, and deny yourself even a
little bet on the Derby winner. You have
been extravagant, and the children's expenses
increase every day. A man must look all
these things in the face, before, just for some
Quixotic ideas he sacrifices such a chance as
we have got now. Providence no doubt

VOL. II. o

willed the inheritance to go away from Dick,
or he would not have been permitted to find
himself in such a predicament."

'* I wonder who did steal the necklace ! "
said uncle Vincent, reflectively.

'^ Dick of course, and Lady Fen church
assisted him."

*^ I can scarcely think it of him."

'can't you? I can," Mrs. Vincent sneered.
'' He was in difficulties, he told her, she was
in love with him, it is all as plain as a pikestaff.
If only one could induce Sir Hilary
to take some step."

'' He can scarcely accuse his own wife."

'' Why not ? I daresay she and Dick meet
constantly. Why does he not watch her, or
lay a trap for her ? women of that sort deserve
no mercy."

'' They do meet," said Vincent, slowly,
'^ for as I was riding past the fir plantation
to-day I saw him come out, and I caught
sight of a petticoat fluttering off in the opposite
direction."

*' You did! " Mrs. Vincent's eyes expressed
pleased surprise. '' You are more observant
than I believed ; there is your chance ; you

must enlighten the poor man about his wife's
conduct."

^^No, no, Maria, I cannot do that'' he said,
shrinking away a little.

<^ Why not, pray ? it is your duty. You
are saving the honour of a good old name."

^* I believe in the truth of the proverb,
Let sleeping dogs lie.' I might burn my
fingers."

Nothing venture nothing have'' retorted
his wife. '' How can you be so cowardly ? "

^' I am not cowardly, I am prudent."

*^ And your prudence will ruin your
family."

Women don't understand these things,"
said uncle Vincent impatiently ; ^"^ there are
certain words one can say, and others that
no man in his senses ever utters. Why
should I interfere between man and wife ? "

Think of the shame. Dick ruined, and
Lady Fenchurch disgraced; the fast immoral
hussy ! it will serve her right ; there can be no
more marriage with Luce then, even she
could not take another woman's leavings; weare
triumphant — do you understand ? A word
to Sir Hilary would be our salvation— we
should do what we please afterwards."

^ o 2

'^ But I shall not say it," cried uncle
Vincent, resolutely marching from the room.

Mrs. Vincent sat with head bent, and brow
knitted, motionless. Her husband would not
do this thing; she knew further entreaties to
be useless. Consequently the task devolved
upon her, and she was equal to it. She had
no pity for the young creature whose life she
intended to blight; she was troubled by no
hesitation, no remorse; now or never the
deed must be done, and no one could do it
better than herself. Until Dick was disinherited
she should know no peace, and a
scandal coupled with disgrace and dishonour
was the surest way to obtain the desired
result. Against these things Mrs. Carrol's
love and indulgence could not hold out; in
the face of damning facts her keen rectitude
would prevail, while Luce herself, from common
motives of maidenly reserve, must needs
withdraw from the contest. Mrs. Vincent
rejoiced that the result was left in her hands ;
she could not quite trust her husband, but
she could trust herself and be perfectly
sure of not making a bungle. All day she
resolved plans in her own mind, weighing
the for and against in every aspect, modifying,

selecting, or rejecting each suggestion
as it presented itself. Presently she went upto
Granny's room, addressed her in the kindest
manner imaginable, and put innumerable
inquiries to her about her health. She
volunteered to read aloud, and made no objection
to the book proffered, plodding on
and on patiently in the clearest and most
unfaltering of voices through the leading
articles of The Times, and some chapters of
Darwin's '' Origin of Species," which in less
happy moods she was wont to designate as
ridiculous rubbish for women to employ
their minds upon. Mrs. Carrol listened contentedly
— while the girls sat and stared at
their mother — and thought to herself that she
had really done her daughter-in-law injustice.
She was remarkably kind and obliging if one
only understood how to take her.

Mrs. Vincent during these hours of
extreme amiability was maturing her plans,
and getting Mrs. Carrol more and more into
her power. She never intended her to get
beyond it now, never again to exercise the
right of free-will or indulge in the pretty
feminine weaknesses and kind actions which
her daughter-in-law considered unnecessary.

^^ Wasting good money," she would think
to herself, angrily remembering all the extravagances
Dick had been allowed. Mrs.
Vincent considered herself an admirable
woman. She had been complimented so
often by her friends, and her superiority
niggardly acknowledged even by her husband,
that she had grown to believe herself
immaculate in her armour of duty and virtue.
To expose a wicked frivolous coquette, to
prevent a fine ancestral place, a large property
with all its vast responsibilities, from
falling into the hands of a gambler and a
roue were, she thought, truly good and estimable
actions; and, if the means she was forced
to employ were not quite so straightforward
and honourable as she might have wished,
still that did not alter the fact that her conduct
remained admirable and well-meaning.
Certainly no time must be lost ; they were
within a day or two of the polling, and, that
once concluded, the effect of her unmasked
batteries would be entirely lost. Mrs.
Vincent cogitated deeply. Should she herself
call upon Sir Hilary ? No, that would
not do. He might refuse to listen to her,
and he might suspect her of evil intentions

Should she send some one to him ? No, it
was dangerous to trust anybody. Should she
write, if so in her own name ? Then the
cowardly weapon of anonymity presented
itself temptingly ; she would be safe, he
would suspect nothing, he would be entirely
in the dark, but he would read — the blow
would fall surely and certainly, and then,
perhaps, who could tell, he might come to
her and she could help him with her wisdom.
The same evening Sir Hilary received an
anonymous letter informing him of his wife's
infidelity, mentioning the interview in the
fir-plantation, and begging him to challenge
the truth of the assertion by inquiry. The
letter concluded by assuring him that the.
writer was solely actuated by friendly
motives, and induced to come forward from
disgust at Lady Fenchurch's trickery, which
had excited indignation in the breast of
honest persons.

CHAPTER XIV.

Lady Eleanor sat in the gorgeous library,
with its fine painted ceiling, to which the
carved oak panelling nearly reached. She
occupied the very crimson plush divan under
the large tree-palm, where Maud had posed
in elegant languor on the evening of Dick's
arrival. But there was no one to admire her
now ; she was alone in the house with the
two girls, Luce and Maud. Mr. Highview
was away assisting at the election. Luce's
heart was heavy and anxious, and the solitude
of the great house seemed unbearable to
Lady Eleanor, who loved brightness and
gaiety around her, and therefore prevailed
on Maud not to leave her at this moment.
Maud was not disinclined to stay ; true she
could conduct no matrimonial schemes under
the circumstances, but she enjoyed plenty of

ease and comfort, and was spared her mother's
reproaches and the presence of a spoilt
brother, whose holiday time she abhorred
and now fortunately escaped. A large bedroom
was allotted her, looking out on the
park, and here she spent much of her time.
In another person's house, she threw her
usual ideas of economy to the winds, burnt
large fires in the grate from morning till
night, lit as many candles as she chose,
drank tea before she rose in the morning,
and as she lay in the huge four-post bedstead,
draped with a highly-coloured pattern of
cretonne^ meditated on the joys of being
rich. Surely no one can ever appreciate
riches like the poor, especially the genteel .
poor, whose whole life has been a struggle to
keep up appearances, and whose heart has
been eaten out of them by the shifts and
efforts they have endured. Maud considered
material luxury her highest ideal, and even
the temporary enjoyment of it soothed and
enchanted her. She was a little sybarite,
no couch was too soft, no cushion too luxurious,
no existence too idle and easy. She
put forth all her efforts to charm and ensnare,
but only with the after-thought that once

the goal reached she need never again exert
herself. Thus, though her stay at Highview
Castle was time wasted, yet, as it was time
pleasantly wasted, she never grudged it.
Lady Eleanor had not before found so
congenial a companion, and the girl's visit
seemed likely to be indefinitely prolonged.
Her tastes, and those of Lady Eleanor,
exactly coincided. Both loved grandeur
and show, both estimated people more by
their external than by their mental qualities ;
both were naturally selfish and cold, both
preferred luxury to affection ; but Maud,
being young and dependent, cleverly hid
her selfishness under a mask of obligingness,
and her coldness under a show of devotion,
thus duping Lady Eleanor till the latter conceived
Maud to be nice and warm-hearted in
an inverse ratio to Luce. Lady Eleanor
never could forgive Luce for having taken the
place of her own child ; she could not forgive
her for being plain, (though her jealousy
might have been roused had she possessed
beauty,) and she could not forgive her real
love for and her fidelity to the losing cause
personified by Dick.

One owes something to one's family''

she would say sternly, while Luce, pale and
silent, did watercolour sketches at a table
near. ''A man who has once disgraced himself,
and is shown to be deficient in the instincts
of a gentleman, should never be
tolerated in good society. When will you
learn that * noblesse oblige,' Luce? **

'^ Oh, aunt ! I am nothing, only a poor
little orphan girl that you took in out of
charity. Why should I be proud ? "

'' You come of an unblemished family,"
said her aunt, ^' your mother was a High-view
; '' and Lady Eleanor stretched out her
hand, that elegant white hand, covered with
rubies and diamonds, to stroke Squib, who lay
curled beside her on a blue velvet cushion.

'' L wonder how the election will pass off''
said Maud, with a yawn, laying down the
last new novel she had been idly fingering.
^^Mr. High view will not be back to-night,
will he, Lady Eleanor ? "

^' No, my dear, and I shall be heartily
glad when the whole thing is over. If I had
known all the trouble it would entail, I
would never have mixed myself up in the
election — it is not worth the pains one takes.
After all, I always go in to dinner before

any of these county people, and being in
Parliament gives nobody much influence
now-a-days. Before the ballot it was
different. I doubt if the butcher even would
be flattered by a duchess's kiss in these
degenerate days."

'^ But, Lady Eleanor, you do not like to
fail."

'^ No, I do not," candidly confessed Lady
Eleanor (pray don't stoop so, Luce, it is
very unladylike), *sand that is one reason
why this young man's unpardonable folly
makes me doubly angry."

'^ Did you ever hear of any reason for Mr.
Carrol's supposed conduct ? " asked Maud,
presently.

'^ None, except that he gambled and kept
racehorses ; but that is sufficient reason,
surely."

'' Perhaps Lady Fen church likes racing ? "

show, Lady Fenchurch ! " Lady Eleanor
half rose and looked angry. '^ My dear
Maud, I think you are speaking of what you
know nothing about."

'' I beg your pardon ; I thought it was
no secret," Maud began to pinch Squib's
ears. The little dog resented the treatment,
and turned round with an angry squeak.

*• Pray leave Squib alone," said Lady
Eleanor. " Here you darling, come to me."
she added coaxingly to the dog. Squib
crawled slowly up the front of her ruby
velvet gown, and condescended to settle himself
on her lap in the most comfortable place
he could find.

really, Maud, you must not worry dogs,
or repeat gossips

'^I won't," said Maud, looking round to see
whether Luce heard. The latter was bending
over her drawing, some of her hair had
fallen forward and obscured her face ; she did
not speak. Maud could not be quite certain.

'^Or, at least," continued Lady Eleanor,
with assumed indifference, ^' if you dow



repeat gossip you should take care to be
correct. May I ask to what you refer ? "

^' Nothing, Lady Eleanor, nothing, I assure
you ; as you say, one must never gossip."

'^ Of course any information you may
think it necessary to give me does not come
under the category of gossip, nor are questions
you may ask which are useful for your enlightenment;
therefore, speak on, child, without
fear."

*^ I have nothing to say'' Maud took a

hothouse rose from the china bowl near, and
began to pick at the leaves, pulling them off
one by one, and dropping them on the
Turkey carpet. ^^ I only wondered-sone
can't help wondering you know — why Lady
Fen church told Mr. Carrol about her necklace
; or why, having told him, and thereby
thrown suspicion on him, she did not keep
the information to herself. Do you think
she can care for him still ? "

^^She is married," briefly answered Lady
Eleanor.

'' That is not always a reason. I wonder
what did pass between them. I am sure
he was fond of her once," said Maud, thoughtfully.


Luce made an uneasy movement like that
of a person who suffers, but did not unclose
her lips. Maud, who loved watching her asa
cat does a mouse (she had not yet quite
forgiven her for stealing away her cousin),
continued in her clear innocent tones :

^^ You don't mind my saying these things
do you, dear Luce ? It is so much better
that one should have a right conception of
the truth. I always thought you a little in a
hurry to accept Dick. He is a dear fellow,

but I should not have said his forte was
fidelity. I think he runs after every pretty
face, and he had scarcely time to love you
very much, unless you believe in love at first
sight. What is your opinion, Lady Eleanor?"

Every word stabbed Luce as Maud intended,
stabbed even deeper than she knew,
for Luce never forgot how Dick asked her to
be his wife, nor that he told her loyally and
truthfully of his previous attachment. She
believed fully in his innocence ; she could
bear anything except to think that he had
betrayed her, and gone back in heart to that
other woman who had already spoilt his life.

'''• Don't you think these surmises waste of
time ? " she said, quietly ; ^^ as I am engaged
to Dick, his past can have nothing to do
with me. I am only mistress of his future."

*' You are more forgiving than I am. I
think his past has a great deal to do with
you."

Luce was silent. These innuendos were of
daily occurrence.

"Oh! " said Lady Eleanor, lightly, "Luce
does not care what we think, she is very
obstinate ; but you may be sure of this, Luce,
unless Mr. Carrol clears himself fully and

completely from all these accusations, you
shall never marry him."

'' He must get into Parliament too," said
Maud, in a light mocking tone, ^Hhat will
keep him steady. I am sure those longwinded
debates and the late hours are
enough to take the spirit out of any man''

'' If Mr. High view had stood himself, we
should have been saved all anxiety," sighed
Lady Eleanor.

Yes, indeed," echoed Maud; '^ it is most
unfortunate."

Luce began to put up her drawing things,
she was sick and weary at heart. This love
had cost her much already, and she was not
yet near the end. Was she justified in
clinging to him in spite of everything ? Supposing
he were only fooling her, only
making use of her affection as a cloak to
veil his real feelings for Lady Fenchurch.
But in that case why had he been honest ?
why did he tell her that all was past andover
between him and Evelyn, and that he
meant to lead a new life ? No, no, she
could not misjudge him thus. It was the
woman's part to keep hope bright and pure,
to cultivate patience and forbearance, to

V

love as she would be loved. Luce tried to
calm her eager pulses, to still her anxious
fears, to be strong with the strength of
endurance and self-control. The weather,
indeed, rather hindered cheerfulness. Luce,
exquisitely sensitive to the changes of the
atmosphere, suffered from the mild relaxing
air, and the damp and dreariness that pervaded
all things. The soaked laurels shone
green and glossy, the sheep shivered in the
wet grass and came out on to the road to
find a dry spot on the gravel to lie down,
the drenched birds flew low under the
bushes, the little crocus-heads withered
and mildewed as they reached the surface.
Only the snails crawled about en the path,
in sticky impassive enjoyment. The muggy
» touch of spring had come bereft of its brightness,
the sun scarcely ever shone, and the
skies remained grey and leaden. If the
clouds cleared off for a little while and the
rain ceased. Luce would mount her horse
and gallop along the muddy lanes, snatching
a brief excitement ; the healthful exercise
flushed her pale cheeks and gave a
lustre to her eye, but at other times she crept
quietly about the house like a timid mouse,

VOL. II. p

as her uncle said, pinching her cheek kindly.
When the election was decided, then her
fate would be decided too, she reflected.

The last public meeting had been a stormy-one.
Dick's supporters had scarcely been
able to obtain a hearing ; no one could tell
the result, though every one hoped according
to his convictions. And then if Dick
failed — Luce's breath forsook her at the
thought — if violent opposition set in against
her marriage, she must either mortally
offend her uncle and aunt, who had trained
and sheltered her from babyhood, or leave
Dick disappointed and lonely to mourn her
loss. She lay awake at night thinking of
these things. She had nothing to comfort
her, not a line, not a message from Dick;
she was not allowed to see him, and, indeed,
now she had promised him fidelity she did
not care any more to defy her aunt's prohibitions.
She was utterly and entirely lonely,
far more lonely than Dick, who had the
excitement of effort. Her iincle might share
her feelings and sympathise with her, but
she knew he would never oppose her aunt
in any great thing. Thus she had only herself
to depend upon, and that shadowy Father

in Heaven whose presence she dimly felt surrounding
her. A hush of expectation was
upon her, a gathering-up of every nerve
and muscle in preparation for the coming
struggle. She could scarcely remain still ;
she wandered aimlessly about, neglecting her
books, hating the splendour of her empty
life, and the long dinners, with all the pomp
of platCj and noiseless plush-breeches footmen,
in which her aunt delighted. Had the
master of the house himself lain at death's
door, the dinner would have been as
perfectly served; the well-oiled wheels of
routine have preserved their onward course
without a creak. Maud could lie in her big
bed and count the bunches of red roses on
the cretonne curtains, with indolent happiness,
and think of the blessings of riches,
and feel one true thrill of gratitude for what .
she was temporarily permitted to enjoy ; but
Luce only chafed and fretted. She thought
of dear Granny and her patient old face, and
the life fast drawing to its close, which had
been all effort and disappointment, and of
the old servant, with his years of grey-haired
service, and the reward of dismissal which
would be his when Mrs. Vincent came into

p2

her kingdom ; she thought of Uncle Vincent
and his coarse jolly heartiness, and ill-disguised
envy of his nephew. She thought of
the smooth lawns and the well-trimmed yew-hedges,
and the quiet lake, and all the
venerable lovely stateliness of the old place,
which had seen generations of owners live,
die, and disappear ; and still the smile of everlasting
summer sunshine lit up the woods,
and intensified the deep vivid colours of the
flowers in the garden, and speckled the
green grass alleys, always cool and fresh.
The hurry and turmoil of life seemed to her
even more foolish and mean when compared
with the quiet and the majesty of the fine
old house and grounds. Ah ! if only Dick
could purge himself of the stain of tarnished
honour thrown upon him, could succeed his
grandmother in due course, and take up the
string of her duties and responsibilities, as
one who well understood them ; and if Luce
the child buried her face ; she dared not
pursue her reverie further. She yearned so
for the peaceful joys of home, for a deep and
true affection, for the ample scope of all her
faculties. She knew herself to be plain and
simple nd ordinary, not fitted for a unique

and brilliant position, not born to stand on
giddy heights, and si line and dazzle admiring
crowds, but just to do her duty quietly, unobtrusively,
and earnestly. Ah ! if Heaven
would but be good to her, would but hear
her prayers ! Then Luce, roused to a sense of
the present, heard her aunt's voice calling,
and descended, soon to be apparently absorbed
in winding silk, or giving Squib his
tea out of a dainty pink china saucer. Lady
Eleanor yawned a good deal.

^' Once this election business over, I shall
go abroad," she said to Maud ; '^ how anyone
can ever endure to spend the spring in
England I can't think — with the east winds
to dry one's skin and cut one's face, and the
dust flying all day — at least in Italy one
can sit in an orange-grove, in a still warm
atmosphere, and hold up a white cotton
parasol to keep off the sun."

^^ And if you go, you will take me with
you," insinuated Maud. '^ Do — I shall be so
useful, and I'm never sea-sick."

Lady Eleanor smiled, and, utilising her
adaptability, sent her upstairs to fetch a
smelling-bottle.

CHAPTER XV.

Sir Hilary having determined to crush
Dick, and to punish his wife for the interest
she had shown Dick by forcing her to take
a share in his vengeance, felt considerably
relieved, and proceeded to cool down inexact
proportion to the heat of his previous
rage. He was a kind-hearted man, though
narrow ; he loved his wife in the cold selfish
way many people have, seeing her faults,
lenient to none of her weaknesses, and yet
proud of her in a possessive fashion, because
she was his property. He did not for an
instant believe her to be more guilty than
she confessed ; his wife, it seemed to him,
would not thus forget herself, and yet he
treated her with greater harshness and
brutality than a more loving man, agonized
by fear and jealousy would have dared to

employ. He was too obtuse to see that such
conduct was driving her from him, and likely
to precipitate the very results he feared.
He had no suspicion of sentiment, and would
have laughed at the modern talk about
sympathy. He felt that as his wife she was
entitled to food and clothes, and every
luxury, but by that very act of purchase was
also his without hinderance or demur. It
was her business to look pretty and charming
and do him credit, because she was his wife,
but it was also her duty to obey implicitly,
and to think no one in the world worthy to
be compared to him. After the first ebullition
of anger he intended things to resume
their normal aspect ; he believed he had ,
thoroughly frightened her, and never
reckoned on the consequences of that fright.
In his experience he had found women docile,
gentle, and easily alarmed, and he scarcely
anticipated the spirit of rebellion and resistance
lying dormant in Evelyn. Kindness
and confidence might have won her
regard ; suspicion and anger must certainly
repel her. When, therefore, his wrath had
subsided, and he began to speak in a natural
tone to Evelyn, he was astonished that she.

remembering his bitterness, and feeling secure
in the protection Dick had promised, answered
him coldly and indifferently. It was
on the very evening of the interview in the
plantation ; her ears were still ringing with
the sound of Dick's voice, and her heart was
still beating with emotion and dangerous
excitement. Her husband's commonplace
remarks stirred no responsive chord; he simply
wearied her a little and disturbed her reverie.
Miss Fen church, always at her knitting,
glanced anxiously from one to the other. A
faint sense of anger troubled her as she remarked
Evelyn's indifference, her cold disconnected
replies, and her evident disregard
of the condescension Sir Hilary showed in
forgetting the cause of his resentment. She
would have liked to pinch her sister-in-law
into some demonstrativeness, to warm her
chilly tones, and put humility and gratitude
into their distant dignity. After a while Sir
Hilary subsided into the perusal of his paper,
and Evelyn took up a novel. She was unstrung,
she felt a distaste even for her ]piano,
which usually proved a welcome resource in
moments of vexation or ennui Miss Fen-church,
whose whole life had been passed in

the quiet routine of provincial existence —
rarely, indeed, had she stirred from lionie,
and, when she did, she had been oppressed
with a nervousness which rendered the return
to her own fireside extremely welcome —
failed to understand the unrest, the nervous
impatience, the need of excitement, which
pervades the minds of modern women. She
looked and looked again at Evelyn, and
noticed that the drawing-room was warm
and comfortable, that the piano stood conveniently
near, that on a table were vases of
hothouse flowers, and books and papers, and
everything a young woman could want, and
she wondered still more at Evelyn's strange
obstinacy and recklessness. To agree with
one's husband was not only a duty but a
positive pleasure ; jars and wrangles disturbed
the equanimity of the conjugal atmosphere,
and provoked ill-will and loss of
appetite. Her brother looked unwell,
Evelyn's lips were pale, and her eyes shone
with an unnatural febrile light. The state of
things was very unwise, and very foolish.
Miss Fenchurch determined to speak to her
sister-in-law at once. Notwithstanding her
aversion to meddling she must say a warning

word to a girl she had herself brought up,
drilled in manners and deportment, and
taught the Catechism and use of the globes.
It must have been with something of the
homely sparrow's feelings when it gazes
upon the cuckoo it has hatched, that Miss
Fenchurch observed the daring and insubordination
of her brother's wife, noticed her
flashing eyes when remonstrated with, her
independence and self-assertion. It was unseemly,
it was unladylike, but with a sigh
she said to herself it was natural. With the
flavour of board schools all around, and the
rash wild boasts of scepticism filling the air, it
was not to be wondered at, though intensely
to be deplored.

When Evelyn wished her good-night and
was about to imprint the careless kiss that
regularly fell on the old maid's cheek. Miss
Fenchurch seized her sister-in-law's hands
with a studied kindliness, and drew her into
the maidenly bed-room set out so primly
with its old-fashioned mahogany furniture,
its dimity coverings, and the little pile of
good books placed on a corner of the table.
^^ Come in, dear," she said, ^^for a minute
and talk to me."

'^ You won't keep me long, Rachel," answered
Evelyn, with a yawn, putting down
her candlestick, in anticipation of a rambling
discourse on the best recipe for plum-jam,
or removing fruit-stains from linen, or on
the qualities and peccadilloes of the village-children,
*^ please, I'm very tired''

Evelyn's pretty flexible figure in the close
fitting white cashmere dress, with the coils
of raven-black hair, piled in gloomy masses
round her well-shaped head, might have
furnished a sculptor with a model, and
raised the envy of many a London belle,
but Miss Fenchurch had no eye for beauty
in the strict sense of the term ; curves,
outlines, and sinewy forms did not appeal
to existing artistic sensibilities. She
admired orthodox pictures, and hid her
face coyly before undraped Greek statues,
but Sir Joshua Reynolds was the extreme
limit of her critical approbation, and even
his ladies, though fine and well-bred, were,
she considered, a little deficient in propriety,
their draperies seemed so very free and
unconventional ; and if by chance a pin had
given way — Miss Fenchurch shuddered at
the possible consequences.

Naturally then, she saw only in Evelyn a
healthy, well-grown young woman, whose
will required control, and whose temper especially
required to be curbed and brought
under discipline.

*' What is it, Rachel?" said Lady Fen-church,
with another yawn, settling herself
more easily and gracefully when her sister-in-law
paused; ^^ do make haste, I am dying
to go to bed."

^^You are remarkably tired to-night, I
think," said Miss Fenchurch, pursing her
lips; ^^ generally you are ready enough to
sit up, playing airs from those silly comic
operas."

Well, one changes. I suppose it isn't
a crime to be sleepy ? "

"" No, but it's a grave fault in a woman to
snub her husband."

Indeed ! Well my husband snubs me.
Is that a fault in your eyes ? '

Miss Fenchurch coughed. The matter
was more delicate than she had supposed.
Evelyn spoke in a cold sarcastic tone ; it
might be difficult to touch her.

^' You did not respond quite nicely to my

brother's kindness to-night," she said at
last.

^^ Didn't I ? Well, you see I never know
if I'm a sinner or a saint ; yesterday he
stormed at me, to-day it is all sweet and
sugary. I can't accommodate myself to this
rapid change of tactics."

tactics between a husband and wife!
There ought to be humility and gentleness
on your part, and I am sure in that case I
can promise that my brother will be grateful
and kind."

^' I don't think he has treated me at all
fairly, and I certainly don't intend to be
whistled back to his side like a retriever
whenever he chooses. I have my pride, my
dignity. It is not because Hilary was niy
guardian that I am necessarily his slave."
- '' Oh, my dear ! " Miss Fenchurch gave a
shudder of remonstrance.

^' I mean what I say. I have no idea of
being trodden down and ill-treated by my
husband, or by anybody." Evelyn tapped
her little slippered foot angrily against the
floor.

'' That kind of insubordination and rebellion

in a woman is a terrible mistake,
believe me," said Miss Fenchurcli, sadly.

'' What does all your submission lead to ?
Look at yon, you dare not order a dish for
dinner unless it is to your brother's particular
taste ; you never get a junket, or a real
little bit of diversion, but just sit here from
year's end to year's end, seeing your
brother's friends, receiving their frumpy old
wives, reading books you are told are
proper, instead of pleasing yourself at your
age ; paying weekly bills without cessation,
grumbling over a pennyworth of bread or a
farthings worth of tallow-candles. Do you
call that a life ? I don't," Evelyn answered.

^^ Evelyn, your sentiments terrify me — so
well brought up as you were too ! "

'' Of course, you taught me to read, and
I have read to some purpose ; you gave me a
mirror, and I have learnt to dress and look
well ; you taught me the duties of marriage,
and I have ascertained it has rights also."

'' Are you speaking of the Married
Woman's Property Act ? " gasped Miss Fen-church,
aghast with stupefaction; ^' that does
not apply to you."

^' I know that," said Evelyn with concentrated

bitterness, ^^ because I have not a
penny. I wish I had ; how I wish I had ! "

'^ Oh, child, go to your room, and say your
prayers ; you're very, very wicked, flying in
the face of Providence and all his mercies."

'' I told you I was sleepy, why did you
rouse me ? " Evelyn said with a subtle smile.
Now that she was secure of Dick's devotion
she rather enjoyed a war of wits with her
sister-in-law, in which she knew she must
have the advantage. She did not intend to
make any real use of her lover, she did not
even realise that she was foolishly risking her
position, but she did appreciate the sense of
power which his strong support afforded her.
She was worldly enough to determine to keep
her luxuries at any cost, but woman enough*
to play with edged tools, and like the danger,
while she tried to solve the impossible problem
of eating her cake and having it. Miss
Fenchurch had never before in her experience
met with a similar case, and was puzzled
how to treat it. She determined to try persuasion.
^^ Consider, my dear," she began,
^^ it is to your own interest to be amiable."

*^ I daresay, but I am not a hypocrite,

and just now I don't feel inclined to be
amiable."

'^ Religion teaches us that we are miserable
sinners."

^' Your religion perhaps. I am sure I am
not a bit worse than my neighbours. I have
never worried for a London house though of
course I should like it, nor been at all extra -
Adamant, or done any of the things that many
wives do to annoy their husbands."

because you are not worse than others,
that does not make you better. You can
have very little real right feeling if you pride
yourself on not being as bad as some
women."

'^ Is the homily over ? '' asked Evelyn,
coldly ; ^' we have not yet entered upon Lent
and I'm horribly sleepy."

^' Oh yes, go, go to bed and dream of forbidden
pleasures ; you are a wicked girl ; I am
sadly grieved and sadly disappointed in
you," cried Miss Fenchurch, angrily.

Evelyn shrugged her shoulders. Her 's
lectures fell upon her ears like
the sound of idle rushing waters; she thought
the whole thing much ado about nothing. It
was certainly very disagreeable when people

were so dreadfully old-fashioned and prudish.
It robbed life of all amusement and
distraction. She took up her candle-stick and
moved forward to kiss her sister-in-law, but
Miss Fenchurch jerked pettishly backwards
and presented only an angular arm instead
of a cheek for the salute. Evelyn shrugged
her shoulders again, and without further
comment departed. Miss Fenchurch remained
standing by the table, feeling cross
and confused. Vaguely she began to realise
that her brother's marriage had been a mistake;
that the difference in years created
also a difference in feeling almost insurmountable
; that unless some great effort
were made, things must end badly ; and that
for once in his life, perhaps, her brother had
not been so wise as he should. Miss Fen-church
proceeded to undress herself, slowly
pondering on these things ; slowly she unpinned
her cap heavy with jingling bugles,
slowly she wound up her thin front hair into
the prim curl-papers, and hid her gaunt form
in the folds of her flannel dressing-gown.
She could scarcely remember the time when
she had been young and giddy ; young she
must have been (allusions to her age even

VOL. II. Q

now displeased her), but giddy — never. She
had kept young men at a proper distance
and preserved a maidenly decorum, which
perhaps had driven them away. Miss Fen-church
recalled no proposal but one, that of
a penniless young officer, who had been
harshly reproved by her parents for daring
rashly to offer himself. He was a handsome
young fellow, and for one brief instant Miss
Fenchurch thought she might have been
happy with him, then sighing she resigned
herself submissively to her parents' veto.
Since then she had given no man the right
to suppose she cast one thought towards him.
Naturally the restless excitable modern temperament
proved a puzzle and an annoyance
to her. That gills should have a will of
their own astonished her ; that they should
seek lu impose that will upon their husbands
terrified and bewildered her.

CHAPTER XVI.

Sir Hilary was on the point of starting to
hunt. He was whistling loudly to himself
as he pulled on his boots and tied the pipeclayed
strings into the neatest of little bows.
He was rather a dandy in the hunting-field ;
and, though an elderly man, rode good
horses, and showed well to the front in a
run. Perhaps the only thing in the world
he really loved was sport ; and, on hunting
occasions, his good humour was invariably
unruffled. Even long dragging days, when
the scent was bad, and the pace slow, and
the weather cold and drizzling — days which
sent others, less keen, home disgusted, never
wearied him. He declared that it rejoiced
his heart to watch the hounds hunt, and that
a quick thing as a rule was no better thana
steeplechase.

Q 2

Now, therefore, when preparing to make
an early start, he was the essence of good
humour, and whistled " For a hunting we
will go " unconcernedly, without regard to
time and tune. While thus engaged the postbag
was handed to him, whence he extracted
Mrs. Vincent's anonymous letter. He read
it twice over before he seemed to understand
its purport, then he dropped the boothook,
he still held, heavily on the floor, spread the
letter out flat before him on the table, and
exclaimed loudly '' Deuce take it ! "

The ingeniously worded letter left behind
it a terribly bitter sting, and the annoyance,
coming as it did just when he was in the
happiest temper imaginable, seemed doubly
crushing. His wife the talk of the county;
Its wife holding clandestine meetings with
her lover ; his wife deceiving him like the
vulgar spouse of a shopkeeper.

Then the story of the necklace rose to his
mind and assumed an utterly disproportionate
importance. There was no doubt
left him that the necklace had been taken
by Dick, not stolen, for Sir Hilary's wife
had given it him. To prosecute Dick was
to implicate Evelyn, to punish him was to

ruin her. Sir Hilary ground his teeth in
impotent rage. The sweet smiling hypocrite !
The cunning wretch ! How she had fooled
him with kind words. He should never, never
pardon her, of course, but he would allow no
scandal, would give nobody the right to jeer
and scoff at him. He would be convinced
of the truth first; the letter might be a lie; he
would confront his wife with it. In her face
he could easily read the truth or falsehood of
the accusation. Hastily pulling on his boot
he hurried in his smart pink clothes, the
emblem of his quest of careless pleasure, to
his wife's room. She had risen late and was
not yet dressed. Her glossy hair hung in
beautiful waves down her back, and streamed
over the pale yellow dressing-gown she wore.
As he entered she turned towards him with
a smile. She had slept well and forgotten
her peevishness of the previous night. Whatever
else might happen she hated to be dull
or bored ; life was very pleasant to her, and
she endeavoured to extract as much joy from
it as was possible, consistent with ease and
indolence. She had never looked prettier,
her rosy lips were parted with a smile, her
eyes bright with repose, the negligence of

her toilet enhanced her charms. Even Sir
Hilary in the midst of his anger felt this;
he stopped for an instant on the threshold
looking at the lovely picture. The neat
French maid, who was brushing her mistress's
hair, paused with the brush in her hand.

What is it J Hilary ? " said Evelyn, carelessly
gathering up her rings as she spoke.

'' I Marie, you can leave us alone."

Both mistress and maid looked surprised.

'^ Certainly, sir," said the maid, laying
down the brush with an air of disdain, and
slowly quitting the room.

Evelyn turned round a little and faced her
husband as he strode forward ; his face working
with stern passion, alarmed her. He
came close up to her, put his hand on her
bare arm, dazzlingly white under the loose
yellow sleeve, and said in a tone that he endeavoured
to make sternly judicial, but which
was really only bitterly cold and hard :

^^ Have you met Carrol since the affair
of the necklace ? And were you with him
in the fir plantation the day before yesterday
? ''

Evelyn, now thoroughly frightened, stammered
and blushed. There was an instant's

silence, then he dropped her hand with a
jerk.

^^ Don't speak," he said, 'don't tell me ;
I know it is true."

He fell back a pace or two, and turned so
deadly white that Evelyn, fearing some
mishap, sprang to his assistance.

"No, no, leave me, it is nothing," he said,
waving her aside. Then steadying himself
with some difficulty, he walked from the
room, leaving Evelyn speechless with astonishment
and surprise. It was some moments
before she recovered her composure
sufficiently to understand that • he had left
her under a false impression, and that, in
the state of rage he was in, dire might bethe
consequences unless she could appease
him. When she thought of these things and
tried to look them boldly in the face she at
once started, as she was, in her loose robe,
vv^ith her hair flying, to search for him. But
he was not in his dressing-room, and she
dared not face the servants down stairs. She
therefore determined to return to her own
apartment, and ring for her maid, whom she
despatched at once in haste with the strictest
orders not to return without Sir Hilary,

whom she desired to speak with at once. The
time seemed interminable before the maid returned
from her fruitless errand, announcing
that Sir Hilary had already mounted his
horse and gone out. Mounted his horse !
surely in the state he was in, he would
never have contemplated hunting; yet, if not,
why had he ridden off so suddenly in his
scarlet coat and tolbooth ? Evelyn could
only suppose that she had exaggerated the
danger, and that he was not really so angry
as she had believed. She sat quietly thinking
and wondering how long this unpleasant
state of things would last, while Marie finished
arranging her hair. Presently the maid
hazarded a remark, 'monsieur seems strange
this morning''

'^ Why ? " calmly replied Evelyn.

^' He never send me out of the room other
days, and he looked cross, oh, very cross."

'^ He is worried with the election."

'^ Perhaps; but, if Madame will pardon me,
1 think she should take care for Monsieur, he
is ill, he not look himself, his eyes are wild
and strange ; Madame pardons me ? "

'^ Sir Hilary looks strange, you say ? "
repeated Evelyn, slowly.

^^ Very strange, my lady, just so my poor
brother-in-law looked before he tried to
milder his wife, and we had to shut him up
in the ' asile des fous.' "

'' Murder ! What do you mean ? Why
do you speak of such dreadful things ? "

*' I did not wish to alarm my lady," said the
subtle Marie, deftly twisting up her mistress's
long hair, *' but sometimes one must humour
gentlemen when they look strange."

^^Yes, yes," impatiently replied Evelyn,
wondering what the maid knew, and whether
there really was any likelihood of the
danger at which she hinted. Slight mental
aberration, restlessness, excitability — certainly
here was a satisfactory reason for all
that had alarmed her. Judicious treatment,
careful diet, would no doubt soon
restore the mental equilibrium so strangely
shaken. Meanwhile she must try not to
alarm herself.

On leaving Oakdene Sir Hilary galloped
quickly along the road to West Thorpe. He
met one or two sportsmen proceeding to the
meet, who nodded and waved their hands to
him, and seemed much surprised at his hasty
progress, although attired in pink, in the opposite

direction, but he pursued his way
without regard to their wondering looks
until he pulled up at the lawyer's house.
The little garden on each side of the paved
walk was bright with spring flowers, and
the page came out to meet him, rosy from
his midday lunch, but disappointed to observe
a tall black horse instead of his friend
the yellow cob.

Sir Hilary pushed past him, scarcely waiting
to hear that the lawyer was at home, and
the page eyed the horse meditatively, doubting
whether it would do to tickle him under
the stomach, or whether in the event of his
resenting these familiarities, unpleasant consequences
might not ensue. '^ Come along,
my beauty," he said, seizing the bridle after
due reflection, '^ come along, and let's make
friends."

Sir Hilary was promptly admitted into the
room where the lawyer sat writing, with the
calm indifference of a man who lives on the
consequences of others' wrongdoing, but
who takes very good care not to indulge in
any follies on his own account.

He greeted Sir Hilary as quietly and
cordially as though there were nothing remarkable

in calling to consult one's lawyer,
dressed in the most perfect of hunting habiliments,
at an hour when every good sportsman
was hurrying to the covert side.

Anything new about the election ? " he
asked, motioning Sir Hilary to a seat.

^^ Nothing. I "

*i'm told we're safe to have a majority."

^^ Dewsnap, I've bad news!" Sir Hilary's
throat felt parched, he could scarcely speak.

'' Bad news, I'm sorry to hear it. Wait a
moment ; take a glass of wine after your hot
ride. It's a relaxing, muggy day." Dew-snap
rose and pulled out his keys.

"" I don't mind if I do take a drop of
something. I'm absurdly shaky this
morning."

^' Ah, well ! canvassing is hard work, and
all thafc speechifying is exciting. You're
bitten with it, I expect."

'' No — but I don't wish that scoundrel to
succeed — I tell you he shan't, mind, if I can
help it."

'^ That was a queer business about the necklace,
wasn't it ? It puzzled me rather— the
motive I mean," said the lawyer, carefully
pouring out the wine. '' Such a mad thing

on the part of the young fellow, he was
certain to be found out ; however, when
men are in want of money it is extraordinary
what follies they will commit, and
never think of the consequences. There's
some wild blood about those Carrols, I
expect ; look at Vincent Carrol now, for
instance, with that red face of his and love
of low company — you would scarcely take
him for a gentleman. However, I suppose
even he would draw the line at stealing."

'^ He mustn't be prosecuted, Dewsnap."

'^ Why not ? he richly deserves it. A
man's being of a good family makes crime
worse, and, in my opinion, there is no reason
for letting him off easily."

'•'My wife " Sir Hilary changed

colour and gasped so strangely that the
lawyer grew uneasy.

'your wife has interceded for him —
that is very kind and pretty of lier. I
supposes lie thinks you will give her another
necklace directly, to compensate her; women
don't regard honour as men do. They think
a lover's infidelity worse than a bit of dishonesty."


Sir Hilary gasped again, and at last forced

out the words : — ^' It will compromise my
wife."

'^ Compromise your wife ! stuff, my dear
fellow ! I never knew you so scrupulous
before. To gloss the matter over would
compromise your wife infinitely more. I
can understand your reluctance to prosecute,
but, after all, it is the firm who prosecute,
and they naturally do it in their own
interests, and as a duty to the public."

'^ He did not steal the necklace."

'^ Not steal it — pray who did then ? "

^^ My wife gave it to him."

^' The deuce she did ! "

The lawyer paused. This was an entirely
new aspect of the case, and he did not see
his way as clearly as he could wish to helping
his old friend out of the dilemma.

'' She told you ? "

'' No, but I found it out by an anonymous
letter. First she met him clandestinely,
then ■"

^^You surely don't believe anonymous
letters ? "

'^ She confessed it, and says she told him
about taking the necklace to the jewellers,
and, to my mind, it's as clear as daylight."

^' Ah, you think so then ? "

'' What do you mean to do ? " asked Dew-snap,
after a pause, turning over his papers
to avoid looking at Sir Hilary.

'^ Do ? First of all change my will, and
then hold my tongue; I won't have a scandal;
I won't be made a laughing-stock, I — she
was so handsome, Dewsnap, and I thought
her true as steel."

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders. Such
mishaps were too common in his experience
to cause him surprise or emotion, but he was
anxious to spare his old friend pain and
trouble, and sincerely desirous, as far as possible,
to avoid publicity.

^' If you think this, you are right to stop
proceedings. Of course Cherry and Appleton
will conform to your wishes ; the loss is
yours, not theirs, there will be no difficulty,
I imagine ; but Lady Fenchurch ? "

'' Don't speak of her, don't mention her
name, she is a miserable creature."

'' You must not say that, if you do not
wish for a scandal."

'' No, to be sure. Ah, Dewsnap, you were
right, I was a fool to marry."

'^ A fool to take a young wife, yes, that's
true''

^' I thought as she was so young, she would
be yielding and amenable to reason."

precisely; men of your age always think
that, and find out their mistake when it's too
late."

^^ Too late? do you think she hates me ? "
Pooh, nonsense, she' knows which side
her bread is buttered. Besides, you are
making a vast deal too much out of all this
business. I suspect she has been more
foolish and silly than anything else, taken
by a young man's good looks and a parcel of
fine compliments."

'* I am sure she had all she wanted. Why
that necklace itself cost me a pretty penny."
^^I must say she did not behave well. The
mistake is, ever to expect women to behave
well, especially if you load them with
presents; there are some favours so great
they can only be requited by colossal ingratitude
; however, in this case, I sincerely
believe your wife has only been foolish. I
should advise you to go home, give her a kiss,
and say no more about it. Depend upon it
by this time she is already heartily ashamed
of herself."

'^ I shall alter my will —put in a codicil; I

left her residuary legatee, and far too large
a jointure ; that must be all changed now."

^^ Master Dick must be dealt with too, leave
me to manage him, I'll put the screw on him,
and, don't change your will."

'' Thank you, I am quite determined."

^' You don't seem satisfied; have you anything
more to tell me ? "

'' I'm extremely obliged for your advice,
but "

^^But you don't mean to take it. You
needn't beat about the bush. I am quite
accustomed to such inconsistencies."

'' With your knowledge of human nature,
can you believe in your wife ? "

'' Of course I can ; she is plain and a good
mother, and in our class of life we don't
want or expect quite so much amusement as
in your fashionable society."

fashionable indeed J " Sir Hilary groaned.

*^ I repeat again, go home and make it up.
You're attached to your wife, and it is to
her interest to keep well with you. Besides,
there is Miss Fenchurch, surely she can play
the dragon a bit on your behalf, and make
your mind easy."

^^My sister, good soul, doesn't understand
this kind of thing."

sewell, she ought to know how to look
after a young creature, drive with her, talk
to her, engage her confidence."

^' Ah, my dear fellow, it was all a mistake ;
we are both of us too old to cope with her
fancies; I see it now''

'' No mistake is irrevocable ; change your
tactics, that's all."

'' I mean to send for your clerk at once
and have a codicil drawn up."

'' To be sure women are aggravating, but
don't be in a hurry, wait a little," urged the
lawyer.

'^ 1 have waited already too long. The
election will be over almost immediately,
and what then? I shall be either an M.P.,
or rejected; that will not cure my wife of
her infatuation."

Wait and see. If Dick beats you she
will be annoyed, women always like to be
first ; if you beat him she will have enough todo
thinking of your success. Besides, I
believe you will win the contest."

'^ I wish I was as sanguine as you are.
Where is that clerk ? he is a long time
coming."

VOL. II. R

u

Well, if you are determined — I have
nothing more to say." Dewsnap rang the
bell and gave some orders.

'^ At any rate you will agree with me that
there is no possible advantage to be gained
by crying over spilt milk," said the lawyer.
'^ None whatever — but I'm so confoundedly
upset — just to show you, I have missed
a favourite meet — Ashton spinney, you
know what that is ? and galloped Firing
along that macadamised road here, as if he
were a hack — without any regard for his
legs, when he cost me 200 guineas."
Foolish, certainly."
^' My head feels all queer —I'm in a fever.
'every likely you are, you've worked
yourself into one. Now go home ; take my
advice, go home ; take a refreshing draught,
and speak nicely and sensibly to your wife
a smile from her will cool you better than
anything — and be seen driving together this
afternoon — don't let the world begin to gossip.
It's death to a young woman's reputation."


She has risked that pretty well herself
already," said Sir Hilary, gloomily.

'stuff! No one knows anything. Just

'7

keep your own counsel, and authorise me
to call on Cherry and Appleton and stop
proceedings at once. I'll go up there directly,
if you like."

'' You are very kind. I'll leave myself in
your hands, I am sure you will act wisely,
but I doubt if things will turn out as simple
and easy as you suppose."

Sir Hilary could not be induced to alter
his mind, the needful formalities were gone
through, and the codicil having been drawn
up, he rode home more soberly than he had
come. Arrived at Oakdene he went at once
to the library to speak to his wife, according
to the lawyer's advice.

R 2

Chapter XVII.

It was with mixed feelings that Sir Hilary
entered his wife's sitting-room, and it was
with considerable annoyance that he found it
empty. During his solitary ride home, at
the conclusion of his interview with the lawyer,
he had been preaching to himself
patience and forbearance, he had been repeating
inwardly the arguments Dewsnap
had used, that Lady Fenchurch was only
foolish, that she had been misjudged, that it
was not likely she meant any harm, and that
if she did it was wiser to ignore the inevitable,
and to patch up the rent caused in
their married life. All this Sir Hilary said
to himself, and enforced it by the most
cogent arguments he could think of, and yet
he seemed to feel a kind of savage satisfaction
in remembering the alteration in his will and

in picturing her discomfiture when she
made the discovery. Sir Hilary had been a
bachelor too long not to be deeply sensible
of his rights and tenacious of his liberty ; he
could not reconcile himself to the idea that
after conferring such benefits as his name
and his fortune upon a penniless orphan, she
should reward him by mockery and disdain.
He had been accustomed to rule his household,
his meek sister, and his obsequious servants,
with a frown or a word, and he had
no idea that any one would defy him. His
temper was hot and angry, and the apparent
courtesy of his manner, purely an affair of
education, reached no further than the exterior.
That his v/ife was not in her •
boudoir was natural enough. She had written
a few notes, practised her piano for an hour,
and was now, taking advantage of the fine
sunshiny weather, gone for a stroll before
luncheon. The traces of her presence were
everywhere around the room; the scorning
Most all crumpled as she had thrown it down
after reading the fashionable intelligence,
the music littered over the piano, the blotting-book
in disorder, note-jDaper strewed upon
the table, here a pocket-handkerchief dropped

in a hurry, there the pug's basket with the
marks still visible of the warm pressure left
by the little animal when he jumped out to
follow his mistress.

Sir Hilary picked up the pocket-handkerchief
and held it a moment before his face.
How sweet it was, saturated with some
delicious odour, an odour he recognised as a
favourite of his wife's. What a pity he had
lost faith in her, what a pity ! He fidgeted
backwards and forwards, sat in her chair,
and moved the papers on the table ; no signs
of vn:ongdoing were there ; his own photograph
stood on one side of the silver inkstand,
Miss Fenchurch's on the other. Everything
bespoke the happy luxury of a peaceful well-ordered
home. He had been kind to her, he
thought no one could deny that ; the furniture
of her boudoir was new and bright and tasteful,
she had pleased her own fancy in the
silks and laces, the upholsterer he sent for
from London had executed her wishes, and
sent him in consequence a heavy bill. Sir
Hilary paid it without a murmur; that was
the way he understood the word affection,
The room was gimcrack and feminine enough
in all conscience to please the most fastidious

woman ; he gave a vicious kick to the lace
draperies of a little table on which stood
Dresden china cups filled with violets ; the
lace tore with a sharp crack, and the cups
rattled in their saucers. He stooped and with
his clumsy fingers sought to repair the rent,
but his spurs caught again in the lace and
made the damage worse. He swore under
his breath, and when he had extricated himself
from the yards of lace and muslin that
clung round his legs, returned to the arm-chair.
There was no doubt he had been a fool, an
egregious fool, to marry as he did. A still
greater fool to complain of the non-success
of his experiment. How could any one
help him ? No doubt by this time Dewsnap^
himself was chuckling over the misadventure.
That was the worst of such things — people
laughed at, instead of pitying the unfortunate
victim of deluded hopes. Yet was it true ?
Why could he never help suspecting his
wife, notwithstanding her repeated asseverations
of innocence? Why did he always lose
his temper whenever the matter was mentioned,
and, by his violence, drive her still
further from him ? The lawyer was right,
yet he felt somehow as if the advice were impossible

to follow. His head ached, and his
face looked flushed ; when he caught sight
of it in the glass it looked almost as red as
the coat he wore. Then he remembered
that in his rage and preoccupation he had
forgotten to breakfast. It was nearly
luncheon-time, and he had tasted nothing but
the fine old sherry in the lawyer's office.
Sherry was not a good substitute for breakfast,
and that sherry, fine as it was, was very
strong. Where could she be ? why did she
keep him waiting in this unseemly fashion ?
Was it possible that she had again gone out
to meet her lover ? At this thought he
clenched his hands, and the blood seemed to
fly to his head, and surge in dizzy waves in
his ears. His vision became obscured. The
gilt looking-glass over the mantelpiece
danced before his eyes. He had never felt
like this before, never, except when he had
that bad fall out hunting, over a stone wall,
and his horse caught his knees against the
sharp coping and turned over heavily into
the lane below. He saw stars then, myriads
of stars, twinkling in impenetrable darkness.
He jumped up, rubbing his eyes angrily.
Since he had taken to caring about a woman

and her ways, everything unpleasant seemed

to have happened to him. No woman was

worth half as much as a good day's sport,

then why did he distress himself, why fidget

and suspect and wonder ? He should make

himself ill. Dewsnap told him he looked ill ;

men never observed each other's appearance

except when they looked very ill. He must

look very ill then. He raised himself

heavily and peered into the glass. Bloodshot

eyes and a purple face met his gaze ; people

might fancy he had been drinking, and yet

a more sober, temperate, man never existed

it was all the fault of women, curse them !

Then presently his legs seemed to glide from

under him ; his muscles relaxed, his eyes .

closed, and he fell back a helpless inert mass.

A few minutes later, Evelyn, her cheeks

fresh and glowing, and her hands full of

violets, entered the room, humming an

ojDcratic air. The little pug ran on in front

of her and stopped with a sniff opposite the

chair by which lay Sir Hilary. He gave a

little short bark of alarm, then sniffed again

and ran back to his mistress, as if to call her

attention. Evelyn, who had laid the violets

on the piano, and begun to tie them up into

little bunches, was some time before she
observed the dog's manoeuvres; when she did,
she gave one piercing shriek and flew to the
bell. The servants quickly caught the alarm,
and the butler, footman, housemaid, and Miss
Fen church presently appeared. Evelyn,
overcome by the dreadful sight — (for Sir
Hilary, speechless, with closed eyes and purple
face, groaned stertorously) fainted away ;
and the servants were divided between their
concern for their master, whose case appeared
terrible and hopeless, and their anxiety for
their mistress, whose condition it seemed
possible to treat with the old-fashioned
remedy of burnt feathers and salvolatile.

Maids have a profound belief in salvolatile,
and Marie was promptly summoned, bearing
the contents of her mistress's dressing-case.
It was in such emergencies that Miss Fen-church's
calm common sense, and well-trained
silent movements, showed to advantage. Ina
remarkably short time she had had her
brother carried upstairs, undressed and placed
on his bed, sent one of the grooms for the
doctor, opened the windows and restored
Evelyn to consciousness; and when the
medical man arrived he found Miss Fen-church

in cap and apron by the sick man's
bedside, attended by a silent deft-handed
housemaid, ready to act as her satellite.
The doctor examined his patient, and shook
his head.

^^ A fit," he said, turning to Miss Fenchurch,
^' and determination of gout to the head.
May recover, but will never be the same man
again— too fond of port wine, I expect, and
he must have received a severe mental shock
into the bargain. Ah ! these hearty healthy
men are always the worst patients, so strong,
and so foolhardy ; he was getting corpulent,
too, and the gout hereditary — a bad business ! "

'' You do not anticipate any danger ? "
said Miss Fencliurch, calmly.

^^Not immediate, but he must be kept
very quiet : all depends on that "

^' To-morrow is the polling day."

No question of it — mustn't think of such
a thing - he would never be fit for Parliament
even if he were returned."

^^ My poor brother!" Miss Fenchurch
wiped away a silent tear.

'' Well, I don't expect he will feel the
disappointment; very doubtful if he ever
regains consciousness. The servant spoke

of two patients — where is the other ? I can
do no more here."

'^ It is his wife. Lady Fenchurch."

^' Poor young thing! a terrible blow for
her ; they had not been married long, and
the old men, you know — they're all the same
wonderfully attached " — the doctor was a
young man and unmarried. He had only
just bought the West Thorpe practice, was
imbued with all the latest scientific crotchets,
and thought love and matrimony an unpardonable
weakness. ^^ Where is Lady Fen-church
? I had better see her at once ; suffering
from shock to the nerves, I suppose — a
subject for bromide."

Miss Fenchurch did not answer, but waved
to her satellite to conduct the doctor.

He found Evelyn lying on a sofa, her hair
dishevelled and hanging about her shoulders,
her cheeks pale, and lips trembling. She
looked very pretty in her grief and distress,
and the doctor, notwithstanding his aversion
to matrimony, felt considerable more sympathy
for the young woman, who would in
all probability marry again and be as cheerful
as ever, than for the quiet and self-controlled
sister, who, in losing her brother, lost

her only love and the last relic of happiness
in her lonely life. Such is the world. Spite
of our endeavours, the very best of us are
more influenced by appearances than by
reality, and beauty conquers easily where
virtue fails to appeal.

^' Oh, doctor, how is he?" said Evelyn,
stretching out a limp hand.

'' Better, my dear lady." The doctor did
not utter the brutal truth to the young
wife ; he was too good a physician to commit
that clumsiness.

'' Will he get well soon ? " She signed to
him to sit down beside her. ^' Mind you try
to cure him quickly''

'^ I will do my best, you may be sure.
It's the gout, you know, flying about the
system — hereditary, and no mistake. Now
let me feel your pulse — ah ! quick and fluttering
— you have had a shock."

'^ Oh yes, doctor, a dreadful shock — it was
awful' — Evelyn covered her face with her
hands as if to shut out the horrid sight.
Deeply printed on her memory was the picture
of her husband's distorted face, and the
sound of the loud breathing, which resembled
the groans of an animal.

'^ Well, j'OU must keep) quiet." He retained
his hold on her wrist and looked
steadily into her face. " I will send you a
composing draught, and tomorrow, I daresay,
you will feel quite well again "

'' And Sir Hilary, doctor ? '' she said, ashe
rose, " tell me really, will he recover ?
Oh, he cannot be so bad, so very bad, tell
me truly " — the doctor drew on his gloves
silently — ^*you will save him, you must save
him," her voice rang with petulant passion.

^' I will do my best," he said, gravely.

Ah, I see you have no hope ; oh, doctor,
doctor." She fell back on her pillows crying
bitterly — now that she was likely to lose
him, the worth of her husband suddenly
appeared to her in a new and precious light.

Do not distress yourself, dear lady — and
have confidence in me — I am quite hopeful
oh yes, decidedly hopeful." In such cases
the doctor saw no harm in a white lie. It
was absolutely necessary that the patient's
fears and nervousness should be relieved.
^'Now, my dear lady, if you fret like this
you will positively make yourself ill, and
that is wrong. You wish to nurse your
husband, don't you ? " Evelyn answered

with a feeble ives — as a rule she dreaded the
paraphernalia of sickness.

Then you must keep calm ; see now,
have a cutlet and a glass of claret for your
lunch, and then you will feel much stronger
I will call again in an hour or two — now,
pray let me advise you — will you be guided
by me ? "

'eyes, doctor, yes," she murmured, faintly.

'' That's right — 1 shall be here again in a
couple of hours, and I trust we shall have
better news then." The doctor, pleased with
his little manoeuvre, and satisfied that Evelyn
would carry out his suggestions respecting
the luncheon, now bustled out to continue
his less interesting rounds among his poorer
patients.

Evelyn lay still and pondered. Her husband
would die, she was sure he would die.
And she must always feel herself his murderess.
The rage and annoyance she had
caused, whatever the doctor might say about
gout, was the cause of his illness. If it had
not been for her he might have lived many
more years, and she would have been spared
this sin on her conscience. She groaned.
The attentive maid, who had been left with

Creatures of Clay.

her under special instructions from the doctor,
brought her a glass of water. ^^ Here,
my lady, drink this, it will do you good."
Evelyn pushed away the proffered glass with
a pettish movement, and turned her face to
the wall. Marie shrugged her shoulders,
and, seating herself in the window, settled
down to read an absorbing French novel
which she had abstracted from her mistress's
work-basket.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Circumstances decide character. Mrs. Vincent,
with everything the world could give
her, would probably have been an exemplary
member of society. As it was, she was
virtuous and outwardly pious. A good
mother, a good wife, a sufficiently kind
mistress ; she dispensed charity with a lavish
hand so long as it did not cost her any
money, and never counted the time she
spent in keeping the penny-bank, or making
up the accounts of the village clothing-club.
She was an active member of the girls
friendly society, started many a deserving
servant on her path of service, and collected
any amount of sixpences for the mission for
civilizing the inhabitants of the South Sea
Islands or the wilds of Africa, at the expense
of infinite trouble and unceasing letter-writing.
But she was deficient in one small
item, an item which, unfortunately, does not

VOL. II. s

take the prominent place in a woman's mind
that it does usually in a man's, the sense of
honour. We have seen this already in the
case of the anonymous letter which caused
Sir Hilary so much doubt and unhappiness ;
and Mrs. Vincent had another secret also, of
an even less honourable nature, which it is
time to pry into. Mrs. Vincent was troubled
with qualms of conscience occasionally ; even
with her self-righteousness and distinct approbation
of her own actions there were
moments when she was uncomfortable and
afraid. Uncomfortable lest her secret should
be discovered ; afraid lest her carefully-laid
plot should not succeed. Only one person
in the world knew where the pearl-necklace
was to be found, and that person was Mrs.
Vincent. She knew it for the very excellent
reason that she had herself locked it away
in her dressing-case, of which she wore the
small gold key, night and day, suspended
round her neck. When Dick in his careless
absorption forgot to deliver the necklace
with which the jewellers had intrusted him,
he returned home with the parcel in the
pocket of his coat. There it had remained
and been found by the servant, who attentively

placed it in a drawer. The following
morning, when Dick had gone out, Mrs.
Vincent, engaged in one of her usual prowls
around, entered his room to see if she
could find some sticking-plaster which she
knew he possessed. Opening the drawer,
the first thing that met her eyes was the
parcel addressed to Lady Fenchurch, ^^ With
care, from Messrs. Cherry and Appleton."
She at once thought she had lighted on a
treasure. A present of jewellery from Dick
to a married woman was a weapon indeed
with which to wound Luce, to cause a breach
between the engaged pair, to enrage Mrs.
Carrol, whose sense of propriety was keen
and delicate, and possibly to deprive Dick'
of his birthright in favour of her own children.
Mrs. Vincent Carrol had something
of the undeveloped morality of the savage,
who thinks it wrong to injure one of his own
family or people, but willingly massacres
without compunction as many of a neighbouring
and hostile tribe as he can conveniently
manage. Dick was to her a hostile
tribe, her children's enemy ; and, as she
plausibly argued, all is fair in love and war.
Believing, therefore, that she had discovered

s 2

an important secret, she appropriated the
parcel and proceeded to open it. When she
beheld a valuable pearl necklace she was sorry
she had done so ; such a thing could not bea
present from Dick, his year's allowance
would scarcely have sufficed to buy it ; besides,
as he was extremely extravagant, the
allowance was usually forestalled before it
had been paid. Mrs. Vincent sat down in
front of Dick's dressing-table, the necklace
in her hand, and pondered deeply. If it
were not a present from Dick it must be a
present to Dick, and from exactly opposite
premises she arrived at the same conclusion
as Sir Hilary had done. Dick was in debt,
and Lady Fenchurch was weak and foolish
enough in her blind love to pay his debts
with her own necklace. But he would
naturally miss the parcel which he had
placed there himself, doubtless thinking it a
place of safety, and in that case how was
she to account for having tampered with it ?
She thought at first of leaving it in the
drawer and trusting to chance, but she felt
that inquiries would be made, the servants
suspected, and her indiscretion discovered.
The safest course was to take the necklace

into her own possession, and leave no trace
of its disappearance. Mrs. Vincent shut the
drawer in which everything else was untouched,
and hurried to her own room
with her precious burden, fortunately meeting
no one on her way. When the pearls
were safely locked into her dressing-case,
and the key securely hung round her neck,
she breathed more freely. To no one
would she impart a syllable of the truth,
certainly not to foolish blabbing Vincent,
and no one was likely ever to suspect her.
If Dick missed the necklace he would not
pay his debts, but by the same token he
would not dare to speak of his loss, nor to
boast of a present received from Lady Fen-church.
He would be forced to keep silence,
and perhaps incur fresh difficulties which
might finally exasperate his kind grandmother.
He must already be in very great
straits, or he would never have taken so
valuable a contribution from a woman. Mrs.
Vincent did not think it suspicious that he
should descend to so mean an expedient ;
she thought that men, poor men especially,
were capable of anything. She judged by
her own petty shifts and the easiness with

which she had extracted little sums here and
little sums there from Granny's ever ready
purse, when in serious need of money. That
Dick should do the same, and accept help
where he found it, she judged extremely
natural. Her intention was to drive him
from lack of means into some such action
which would compromise his future fortune.
But she reckoned without her host. Dick
did nothing desperate, and Granny pitied
rather than blamed him. Still a scandal had
been caused, he had been rendered very
miserable, the confidence of the public in
him was shaken, possibly the marriage with
Luce might never take place. True, things
had assumed a very different complexion
from what she intended ; she was permitting
a man to suffer needlessly under a false
suspicion, for with one word she could have
cleared up everything, but she did not do
so. She herself would have found it hard to
explain her motives ; she was not naturally
cold or stony-hearted, and yet she quietly
committed an unjustifiable action ; and,
though certainly a little uncomfortable in
the process, felt no remorse for her conduct.
She had gone too far; it was too late to

draw back. And meanwhile she could endure
to see Granny day by day growing quieter
and more silent ; her smile — that peaceful
heavenly smile Luce loved — getting rarer
and rarer, until it became but a reflection of
itself; and note the patient figure more and
more motionless sitting for hours in her chair
by the fire. Mrs. Vincent could bear to see
this and to know that it was her doing, and
never speak a word.

^^ It is for my children'* she would repeat
to herself.

Dick never came to Long Learn now, his
name even was scarcely mentioned between
them ; and yet each one in that divided
household hung with anxious suspense upon
every incident and suggestion that portended
the result of the contested election.

Luce had obtained permission to spend
the polling-day with Granny, and arrived the
previous morning with a small handbag containing
necessaries for the night. When she
and Granny were alone they tasted a few
moments of exquisite happiness though they
were reticent in their expressions of joy, and
indulged in few words ; but Luce would sit
on a low footstool at Granny's feet, with her

hand clasped round the old lady's delicate
shrunken fingers, and a cord of perfect sympathy
seemed to bind their hearts together.
Speech is the feeblest mode of expression
between two entirely loving natures, thoughts
lie far too deep for words, and certain moods
and emotions defy all known reduction to
the concrete.

Lady Eleanor had been more than usually
fussy lately. She was annoyed at Luce's
persistance in her engagement, notwithstanding
all reasonable advice. She was
alarmed at the consequences of Dick's losing
his election and his grandmother's fortune;
and at the terrible chance that possibly
the warrant might be executed and the
handsome young fellow imprisoned and
disgraced; finally, she had discovered three
or four grey hairs in her head, which she did
not know she possessed, and had experienced
certain twinges in the points of her fingers
which her doctor had rudely, and without the
courtesy to be expected of a lady's physician,
pronounced to be gout. She was consequently
of a more arrogant and difficult temper
than usual; and Maud, who was now
engaged in playing a new game, that of

making herself necessary at Highview Castle,
encouraged and sided with her in all her
fancies.

Luce, who was consistent and steadily-practical,
found it difficult to veer about with
the wind of the fine lady's caprices. She
would bluntly assert that the day was fine
and the wind west when Lady Eleanor had
announced that the weather seemed colder
than ever, and that she was sure the thermometer
had fallen ten degrees since the previous
day, or disagree with Lady Eleanor's
opinion that Dick's misfortunes arose from
the spoiling of his grandmother, or assert
her belief in his innocence when Lady
Eleanor called him a rogue and a thief.
Then her aunt would work herself up into
a rage ; and the twinges of gout grew worse,
and the doctor ordered absolute quiet and
a lowering diet, which was precisely what
Lady Eleanor most detested, being under
the impression, carefully encouraged by her
kind husband, that it was ^^ keeping up,"
her system required. Under these circumstances
Luce would fall into dire disgrace
and be ordered summarily from the room,
probably to meet, on the stairs, Maud, happy

and officious, bustling along with a letter ora
message.

'' I have no patience with you, Luce,"
she said, as she caught sight of a tear
twinkling on Luce's eyelash. " You are
such a fool. Why don't you let your aunt
have her say ? If she finds it cold, shut all
the windows and doors ; if she abuses Mrs.
Carrol, say nothing if you can't join in ; ten
to one if you did join in she would turn
round and praise her. What's the use of
quarrelling with your bread and butter? You
should try, on the contrary, to spread your
butter thicker."

Luce only shook her head. It was impossible
to her to go against her convictions,
and she had not the gift in these moments
of suspense and anxiety to stand outside
herself, and reason lightly and sarcastically
about her difficulties. Maud could do this.
She could make Lady Eleanor laugh in the
most trying moments, and keep her amused
even in the long tiresome drives in a close
carriage which were ordered for her health
by the medical man. Naturally, therefore,
a visit to Long Leam afforded a peaceful
happy . contrast to Luce's daily life, of which

she availed herself whenever she had the
opportunity. Mrs. Vincent, however, did
not allow her more peace than she could
help; she was unreasonably jealous of Luce's
influence, and irritated at the non-success
of her own daughters to interest and amuse
the old lady ; who, though ever kind and
courteous, sometimes plainly showed her
relief at their departure. She found fault
as much as she dared with all Luce did ; she
kept the room far too hot or too cold, or
else she talked too much and gave Granny
a sleepless night, or she remained silent
and thus caused Granny to be unusually
depressed, and so on and so on. But Luce
took it all gently and patiently ; neither she
nor Granny cared what price they paid for
each other s company.

'' And so you saw him to-day ? " Granny
said, pressing Luce's hand as she sat at her
feet.

^^ Yes, when I passed through West Thorpe.
He was in a carriage with two other gentlemen.
He bowed and seemed pleased as he
caught sight of me''

^' Of course, dear — well? "

'^ But he looked so pale, and so. worn."

'' It will all be over tomorrow," sighed
Granny.

^' Yes ; and, whichever way it turns out, I
shall be glad. This suspense is terrible."

^^ Poor fellow ! Luce, I must see him
afterwards. Do you hear ? I must. Never
mind what Mrs. Vincent says. There might
have been a reason against it formerly, but
when the election is over there can be none."

'^ You shall see him'' said Luce, quietly.

^' Thank you, dear, it is very kind of you;
in fact you are always kind to me, and Mrs.
Vincent, though she means well, is a little
trying; she cannot help it, poor dear, she is
so devoted to her family."

** Does being devoted to one's family
necessarily mean selfishness? It is very sad."

'^ Poor Mrs. Vincent! I do not think she
is happy''

'^ She is fond of her husband."

'^ Oh, yes ! and an excellent wife, I am
sure. I have not a word to say against her.
She is so careful of Vincent's money, and
wishes her daughters to have every advantage."


^^ Which you pay for. Granny."

Their eyes met, and Granny smiled.

'^ That is what grandmothers exist for, my
dear. We useless old women must find someway
of benefiting our neighbours."

'^ Useless ! If only half the world did as
much." Luce pressed her lips to Granny's
hand.

'you will never forsake Dick, Luce; promise
me that." The old lady's voice shook.
''I know it is asking a great deal of a young
thing like you, who ought to be free and
happy; but, my dear, I feel you will be his
salvation, and he is a good fellow, really. I
am so very anxious about him."

'' I know, Grranny."

'' And you are the kind of girl who understands
self-sacrifice. You will always put
the welfare of the man you love above your
own interests," she continued, anxiously.

*' I will try," said Luce.

*' Promise me. I feel as if I should not

live long, now No, don't shake your

head. I am very feeble ; I can scarcely walk ;
and to think much makes my head ache ; even
Homer hurts my eyes now ; I fell asleep over
him yesterday. Luce, you are young, you
must take up the thread of my life — be a
guardian angel to Dick."

^' Promise to marry him if it is for his
happiness. It will be for his happiness, I
know."

'^ I promise."

But, if circumstances render this impossible,
promise that you will help him todo
right, and to be happy — I want him to be
happy."

^' I promise," softly whispered Luce.

Luce bent her head as she said these
words solemnly, and kissed Granny's hand.
The old lady felt the dedication of herself in
this simple action, and was silent, looking
with approval at the slender figure beside
her. The old Dresden clock on the high
mantelshelf ticked loudly in the silence, and
seemed with its loud voice to ratify the vow.
Luce never forgot that instant: Granny's
soft quavering voice ; the big arm-chair in
which she seemed but a small shrunken atom
of pale lilac brocade ; the quaint china,
grotesque and valuable, that stood on each
side of the clock ; the two prints in oval gold
frames, genuine Bartolozzis, that hung
below ; the fire of wood burning placid and
ruddy ; the bright clear winter sunshine

streaming into the cheerful room ; the smell
of the hyacinths on the writing-table, and
her own words ringing slowly out upon the
air — ^' I promise."

Come what might, she was Dick's now.
Whether she married him, as was most
probable, and shared his fortunes and his
difficulties, or remained single all her life, a
helpful humble old maid, her desire must be
towards him, her efforts consecrated to his
advantage, and her love for Granny bear
fruit in self-denial and service for him.

At that moment Mrs. Vincent entered with a
tray containing toast and beef-tea for Granny
(she was very diligent while disregarding
her mental wants to minister to her bodily
ones), and no more was said on the subject'
but Luce contrived to give Granny's hand a
silent pressure which confirmed the old lady
in her belief that Luce had accepted the
trust, and would keep it sacredly.

CHAPTER XIX.

The committee-rooms in West Thorpe were
as full of the hum of business as a beehive.
The doors leading to them slammed incessantly;
person after person, common and
gentle, pushed his way in, and sallied forth
again anxious and absorbed. The great Mr.
Gubbins was in his glory ; everybody invited
his advice or his opinion ; he was consulted,
asked for, and monopolised by each
one in turn. Excitement was his element ;
he only really enjoyed himself in the din
and turmoil of political warfare. There had
already been a slight disturbance between
the rival bodies of constituents in the streets.
It was rumoured that worse disturbances
impended, and that the military might
require to be called out. Some of the
nervous people shook their heads. Gubbins
only rubbed his hands.

^^ Capital I" he said, nothing like a disturbance
to give importance to a candidate.
It shows you have a very fair chance, or
your opponents would not take the trouble
to get up a row."

A brass band careered under the windows
at that instant, and its harsh and unlovely
tones drowned the remainder of his sentence.
He hurried to the window and
stepped out on to the balcony.

'^ They are some of your supporters, Mr.
Carrol — fine fellows, too ; come along, say a
few words to them from the balcony."

Dick, pale and looking fatigued (he had
had but little sleep all night), rose from the
table where he was poring over accounts,,
calculations, reports, and letters, and followed
his agent on to the balcony. As he
appeared deafening shouts were raised, catcalls
heard, and a shower of stones and
rotten eggs fell against the windows.

'^ Gentlemen," said Dick, '^ I am proud to
meet you all to-day."

Fresh shouts and louder cries interrupted
him. The mob had no inclination to listen ;
they had come to shout, they meant to
shout, and shout they would. Dick was

VOL. II. T

forced to confine himself to elegant gesticulations,
which served the purpose quite as
well as speech. When he had been loudly
cheered, and the groans and hisses more or
less quelled, he retired from the balcony and
returned to the comparative quiet of the
writing-table.

'^ What tomfoolery it all is ! '' he said,
wearily. '^ They don't care a fig about me.
I don't believe I have a chance, and if it
were not that I should hate to disappoint the
honest Liberals who have stood by me so
loyally, I should throw the whole thing up
at the eleventh hour."

'' You need not be troubled by any
scruples about your supporters' said grubbing,
sarcastically, " so long as they get a
candidate that's all they want ; it don't
much matter who it is ; they'd as soon take
me as you, if you were fool enough to retire,
and in that case I should present myself at
once, for they know me now ; but I don't
recommend it."

He turned again to the papers, and Dick
felt that the laugh was on the agent's side.
The other men chuckled, the pluck of the
fellow Pleased them. Dick beo:an to draw

little pictures on the blotting-paper; the
noise and the worry irritated him. He
thought of Luce, and wondered what she
was doing. He longed to speak to her for
one instant, to hear her low sweet voice, and
see her eyes fixed on his face in quiet trust.
She always put him in a good temper ; she
believed in him so thoroughly, and the
belief was infectious. If he married her he
should improve, he felt sure. She would
help him to do right, and conquer the weakness
that stole over him spite of his best
endeavours. And then there was that Fen-church
business, too — how would that turnout
? He must stand by Evelyn if there
were any difficulties. While he reflected Discontinued
to draw strange caricatures even
more diligently; pretty women with dislike
extremities ; hideous little goblins with huge
mouths, and dancing devils with long tails,
and monsters of every kind. The occupation
soothed him. Presently some one looking
over his shoulder while he drew said :

'^ That's very like Lady Fenchurch, I declare.
Just her eyes — by-the-bye isn't this
a sad affair about Sir Hilary ? it improves
your chance though, Carrol."

t2

^^ What affair?"

^^ All, yes," chimed in Gubbins, ^'I heard
it late last night. I forgot to mention it to
you, Carrol. Sir Hilary had an attack
yesterday, a kind o^ fit ; they tried to keep
it very quiet, but it oozed out through the
fact of the doctor's visit. However, I don't
suppose that will make much difference to
the voting. Everyone has pretty well made
up his mind by this time which way he is
going to vote."

'^ Sir Hilary is ill — has had a fit ! " repeated
Dick, slowly.

'^ Yes ! he was getting fat, and there is
gout in the family, so it is not surprising."

^^By Jove ! you're a lucky chap, Carrol."
^^It is extremely likely you will get in
now'' said Mr. Highview, at that instant
approaching.

^' Is it not very sudden ? " asked Dick,
leaning back in his chair.

'^ Fits usually are very sudden — they don't
generally go through much ceremony."

^^ Why you look almost sorry, Dick," said
Mr. Highview, kindly ; '^ after the way you
have been treated I must say you show a
most forgiving spirit''

I — the fact is, I am taken by surprise."

^^So were we all. Is there fresh news
this morning ? does any one know how he
is?"

No one knew for certain, though all kinds
of rumours were understood to be floating in
the air.

'' Here, George," said Gubbins, authoritatively
to a messenger, '^ make it your business
to find out, and bring us the latest bulletin
of Sir Hilary's condition. We can afford to
pay him the compliment of being interested
in his health, can't we Carrol, eh ? " he
chuckled, satirically. These things were
nuts to the agent. Dick nodded. Sir Hilary
struck down with illness considerably enhanced
his chances of success. Certainly he
might consider himself fortunate. The subject
dropped, other things were of more
interest to the eager politicians— the state of
the poll, the refractoriness of certain voters.
But Dick could not get the thought out of
his head. Sir Hilary at this instant was
lying speechless, motionless, and helpless,
and he, Dick, was on the high road to fortune.
It almost seemed as though a special
providence watched over the careless young

man. Some telegrams came flying in,
technical questions required to be discussed ;
he again addressed the people from the balcony,
and this time they condescended to
listen more patiently ; then arrived luncheon,
more interviews, more business — he had no
time to sit still, much less to think. Affairs
were very promising. Dick was at the head
of the poll, his opponent running him very
close ; the contest grew more and more
exciting. George had not returned with news
of Sir Hilary's health ; indeed, in the growing
suspense and interest the matter was
almost forgotten. No one believed the illness
to be very serious. Sir Hilary was still
young, he was known to be a hearty man,
who had lived a temperate life and taken
plenty of exercise, the Englishman's panacea
for all ills.

^^ Luce sent you her best wishes to-day,"
whispered Mr. Highview as he sat next to
Dick over their hurried luncheon.

'' She is very kind," responded Dick, with
a smile of pleasure. ^^ Where is she ? "

^^ Nothing would satisfy her but she must
spend to-day with your grandmother. Lady
Eleanor was much against the plan, but Luce,

aided a little by me I must confess, overruled
her. She slept at Long Leam last
night and will be there till tomorrow."

'' I am very glad. Granny will appreciate
her society and the attention thoroughly''

'' She is devoted to your grandmother.
You might almost be jealous, Dick. You
only come second-best I believe."

^' Nothing is too good for Granny. Did
Luce say anything about uncle Vincent ?
What part is he taking ? ''

'' I regret to say he is in Sir Hilary's
committee-rooms. I consider it very bad
taste on his part, but with all due deference
to you, Dick, your uncle never did give me
the idea of a thorough gentleman. The first
duty of a man who belongs to a good family,
is in my opinion not to foul his own nest.
What good can come of dragging a fine old
name in the dirt?"

Pick's conscience smote him. He himself
had not done much to raise the name. But
if he triumphed now he meant to devote all
his energies to cheering his grandmother's
declining days, and to giving her the right
of being proud of her grandson. Poor old
lady, she had hitherto suffered terribly

through him. It should be his sole endeavour
to comfort her and recompense her
goodness and trust.

The hours sped along interminably as
it seemed to him, in alternations of hope
and disappointment. Sometimes he headed
the polls sometimes Sir Hilary headed it ; it
seemed that none could predict the result,
the Conservatives were confident, the Liberals
flushed with anticipation. Dick sat in a
corner with his head on his hands Awaiting.
There was nothing more to be done except
to wait, and he was sick and tired of the
whole concern ; even if he were beaten he
should not care very much so long as he
were free again to do what he liked. The
afternoon was cold ; but the committee-room,
filled with people as it had been all day, felt
stifling and oppressive. A kind of dull quiet
had settled uj^on everyone. Mr. Highview
and Gubbins whispered together in a corner.
Dick knew that it must be about something
connected with his affairs, but he did not
even care to listen. He pulled out his cigar-case
and began to smoke. These tedious
moments of expectation were the worst of
all. The fire was dying out, the small bad

coal which had been piled upon it produced
more dust and cinders than it gave out
heat. Dick stooped and emptied the contents
of the grimy coal-scuttle upon the fire, which
immediately vomited forth volumes of dense
choking smoke. ^' ph, by Jove!" exclaimed
Dick, walking disgustedly to the window.
The streets were full of people, occasionally
some one the worse for drink hiccupped and
shouted as he walked along, but as a rule
everything was quiet. The mob was tired,
and the greater number had dispersed to
their homes. Dick leant listlessly against
the window-frame hearing the whispered
conversation like a gentle echo behind him.

Suddenly a new excitement seemed ^o
seize upon the people outside ; they hurried
together, and cheers and groans filled the air.
Mr. High view and Gubbins approached the
window to see what was the matter, and
George the messenger burst into the room at
the same instant. He lead evidently been
running and could scarcely speak.

^' What is it ? " said those present, feeling
certain that he was the bearer of some
grant piece of intelligence.

'' You're all right," he gasped at last, ^'Sir
Hilary "

*^ Well, go on," impatiently urged Gubbins.

^' Sir Hilary — I've just come from Oak-done
— Sir Hilary is dead ! "

^' Dead ! " The faces round the table were
a study. Gubbins's positively glowed with
unfeigned surprise and delight. Mr. High-view's
expressed genuine concern, for the
sudden death of a brother magistrate in the
prime of life was no light matter, while Dick
was divided between a sense of horror and
a sense of relief.

Well, our work is done at last," said
Gubbins, presently, '^ there is no other candidate
in the field, and, as it is, you head
the poll, you see. I congratulate you, Carrol,
on your well deserved victory."

He shook Dick's hand, but the latter gave
no sign of pleasure.

^^ I'm glad you're elected, my boy," said
Mr. High view, kindly, ^' but I'm sorry there
has been such a tragic ending to the affair.
Poor Sir Hilary ! he was a year or two
younger than me, and who would have
thought he would go first. Only fifty-five ;

why it's a terribly premature ending, and
this young widow, too — dear, dear! "

Kind Mr. Plighview continued lamenting
in this strain for some time, while the agent
and the other bystanders, who were conversant
with the story of the necklace and Sir
Hilary's revenge, looked with curiosity for
Dick's answer. He seemed dazed. The
whole affair was so sudden, his opponent had
been snatched away just when he seemed
likely to prove dangerous, and the ball was
at Dick's feet. He was a Member of Parliament.
Late that evening the full returns
came in, and it was demonstrated, without
doubt, by a considerable majority, that Dick
was indeed the successful candidate. Even
had Sir Hilary lived he would only have
lived to see himself defeated.

'' I owe everything to you," said Dick to
Gubbins, when he announced the result, ^^ to
the enormous trouble you have taken, and
the way you coached up an inexperienced
fellow like me, and, next to you, I owe
everything to Mr. Highview."

'^ No, no, indeed," said the latter gentleman,
" really I was of no use at all, but I am
glad on account of Lady Eleanor ; she will

be so pleased, she had set her heart on
bringing in a Liberal candidate and she
cannot bear to be disappointed. I must go
home at once and tell her the news."

'^ And you will let Luce know," said Dick,
anxiously; "I think she will be pleased too."

^' Of course, but I suspect your uncle
Vincent has seen to that already. It will bea
blow to him, I suppose. A pity he did not
support you; it is so much pleasant when
a family is not divided."

Saying this, good Mr. Highview departed
in excellent spirits, secure as the bearer of
pleasant news of an agreeable reception at
the hands of Lady Eleanor.

Dick remained sitting by the fire ; he
smoked another cigar and drank a little
brandy and water with Gubbins, who was
too much elated to retire to bed, and entertained
him for a couple of hours longer with
stories of all the election dodges he had witnessed,
and of the severe contests he had
assisted at. '' But I never was more pleased
at any one's success than I am at yours," he
concluded, pouring himself out a stiff tumbler
of brandy and water. Dick, when at
last his convivial companion permitted it,

threw himself perfectly exhausted on his
bed and enjoyed short uneasy slumbers, in
which he was perpetually addressing an
angry mob that pelted him with garbage,
and straining a hoarse voice from which
not one audible note would proceed.

CHAPTER XX.

Luce's stay at Long Learn during these
events was no sinecure. Already the first
evening at dinner, Mrs. Vincent took the
opportunity of talking at her, conveying
pointed allusions across the table to the
innocent Dolly and Eliza, who had been
promoted from the schoolroom to the dignity
of a late dinner. Mr. Vincent, who had
been drinking all day at the various public-houses
in the pursuit of his electioneering
duties, was voluble and argumentative, and
perpetually informed her, in a loud and
defiant voice, that the first duty of every
man and woman was to stick up for the laws
of his Queen and his country.

'' The Liberals," he said 'sall lie. They
are nothing but a demagogue— a cruel, grinding,
and tyrannical lot. Every Radical is a

tyrant ; lie deserves hanging. If I were the
Queen I'd hang every one of 'em."

'hush, dear, hush!" said Mrs. Vincent,
carefully dispensing fish. ^' Here is your
favourite cod and egg-sauce, and you must
be hungry."

^^ So I am, as hungry as a hawk. Haven't

I been all day shouting against those d d

Radicals, the scum of the people, which
they're trying to foist upon us ? "

^^ Well, dear, you might as well drop
politics a little. Luce, you know, is shaking
in her shoes."

Luce hastened to explain that she hoped
Mr. Vincent would treat her as one of the
family, and that she did not wish to be a
check on the conversation.

'^I hope we know better, my dear," said
Mrs. Vincent, sarcastically, measuring out a
small glass of sherry to be taken medicinally
by Dolly, who, though a teetotaller, occasionally
required a fillip, and was just now much
distressed by a certain unseemly eruption on
her face. '^ We all know how much you
care for that misguided young man, who is
standing to-day as a Liberal, more's the

pity. But what can you expect from a
person who is a gambler ? ''

^^Mrs. Vincent, indeed, I assure you ''

^' Excuse me, my dear, Vincent knows
from sad experience how terribly he used to
bet, and then, when the money is due, of
course it has to be paid somehow, and people
can't afford to be scrupulous."

Luce held her tongue. She did not wish
to be drawn into any discussion which could
only lead to angry expostulations, and serve
no possible good purpose.

^' Stick to the institutions of the country,"
blurted out uncle Vincent, in his drivelling
tones. '^ That's the duty of every man and
woman. The Tory party is a godsend to
the country ; you and I, and all of us, owe
everything to the Tories, here's their health
bless 'em."

Uncle Vincent drank off a bumper of
claret as he uttered these words, but a stern
look from his wife caused him presently to
subside into his plate of roast mutton.

^^Ido hope you will not agitate Granny,"
said Mrs. Vincent, turning to Luce. ^' It
was a foolish business your coming here at
all, to talk of distressing subjects, and remind

her perpetually of the disgrace that has
fallen upon her family. I do all I can to
keep her quiet, but now you are come I
expect my pains will be wasted."

'^ Indeed, Mrs. Vincent, I do not believe I
shall agitate her, and I think she finds it a
comfort to have me by her side."

Humph ! I am sure I have spared no
trouble to please her, and as for her broth
and her gruel they have been frustrate, never
smoked or lumpy, I took care of that, and I
know how difficult it is to have nice gruel,
even in the best houses, where these things
are left to the stillroom maid, and always
done carelessly."

^' I am sure you have been very kind."

'^I tell you what it is, Maria," said
Vincent, ^^ it's my belief a good glass of port
wine would do Granny more good than all
your slops."

'^ Now, Vincent, pray don't interfere; if
there is anything I understand thoroughly it
is nursing. Don't you remember when
Tommy had the measles, and Dolly the
scarlet fever, and you yourself that nasty
bilious attack, that puzzled the doctors so,
how dear Sir Calomel Mortar remarked with

VOL. II. V

a low bow ~ his bow is exquisite , really —
that he had not a nurse to compare with me
for attention and judgment ? "

^^ Oh, I know you're a great hand at boluses,
the children know it too '' (he looked round
for approval, Dolly and Eliza sniggered
and nudged one another under the table,
it was the kind of joke they understood),
'^ but I believe my mother wants nourishment
more than physic." That was Luce's opinion
also, and before she returned to Granny's
room she made friends with the butler, and
persuaded him to give her a pint bottle of
champagne and the wing of a chicken, armed
with which delicacies she made her way to
Granny's bedside. The dear old lady lay
quite still among her pillows ; she only rose
from her bed now for a few hours every day,
and each time the exertion seemed greater.
Mrs. Vincent occasionally accused her of
laziness, and dilated on the waste of time
caused by lying in bed, but, as she noticed
Granny's pale cheeks and feeble voice
towards evening, she relaxed her urgency,
and permitted the old lady to use her own
discretion about her rest. On one thing
however she was firm, and that was in the

matter of diet ; when people took no exercise
she averred solid food must be partaken of
sparingly; indeed she attributed most illnesses
to over-feeding and reckless indulgence
in butchers' meat. Mrs. Vincent fed
her servants and family now largely on
fish ; she had read books advocating fish as
an article of diet, and, finding it cheap and
convenient, instituted a Friday fast as rigid
as that of any Romanist faithful to the precepts
of his confessor. Granny was only
allowed slops, and wine was positively forbidden
her. Luce knew this, and knew that
by bringing contraband food she risked Mrs.
Vincent's awful displeasure. But firm in her
sense of right she braved it. When Granny-saw
the appetizing tray she smiled with
pleasure and amusement.

^^ What's that for, dear'' she said, raising
herself on her pillows; '^ are you going to
have supper ? "

'^No, but you are, dear Granny; now
please eat just to satisfy me."

Granny, a little alarmed at the prospect of
Mrs. Vincent's return, at first demurred, but
by dint of coaxing and entreaties Luce 

2

aged to prevail upon her to drink some wine
and to eat a little of the chicken.

^^ I can't think why the doctor doesn't
order you wine," she said, sitting on the bed
and cutting up the chicken daintily to save
Granny trouble.

'^ The doctor, my dear ? I don't have him
now ; Mrs. Vincent dismissed him some time
ago ; he only prescribed plain food and quiet,
and I get that."

'^ I call chicken plain food, and so I am
sure does he. Oh, Granny, it makes my
heart ache to see you so quiet and uncomplaining''
said Luce, sadly.

'' Well, dear, complaining would only
make me worse; after all, an old woman of
my age cannot expect much."

'* But you have enjoyed your little supper
haven't you now ? " said Luce, carefully
folding up the napkin and wiping away the
crumbs that had fallen on the bed-clothes,
^' and you will sleep much better for it I'm
sure."

"I feel very well," said Grimy, rolling
herself up cosily, '' and rather like a child
that has had a surreptitious feast''

^^ Your eyes are as bright again ; tomorrow
dear Granny, we will have another feast."

Ah, yes, tomorrow, perhaps my dear
hoy will be an M.P. by that time."

^' Let us hope he will." Luce kissed her
and presently the old lady sank into a peaceful
slumber. The next morning she seemed
brighter than usual. Luce read the paper to
her, and told lier about all that went on in
the house. How uncle Vincent had ridden
off very early in the morning and had informed
them of Sir Hilary's illness, and how
many bows of blue ribbon Mrs. Vincent and
Dolly and Eliza had made up with their
own hands to decorate themselves and their
friends, and how Mrs. Vincent and the girls
were going to drive in Granny's carriage to
West Thorpe in the afternoon, to hear the
result of the polling, and how Luce herself,
intended to stay at home all day and keep
Granny company. The old lady was interested
in everything, and pleased to hear
the weather was fine though cold, and that
the slight frosts of the past week had not
hurt the peach-trees ; and then Luce fetched
her work, a piece of tapestry she was painting
for the panel of Lady Eleanor's boudoir,

and sat quietly down to a few hours' unobtrusive
employment. As the day advanced
Granny grew fidgety ; she could have as
much chicken and champagne as she chose
in Mrs. Vincent's absence, but she felt no
appetite, and would take nothing but her
beef-tea; her hands had a visible nervous
tremble in them which Luce had never
before observed, and her voice, usually so
low and sweet, to-day was tinged with
querulousness. Luce felt a little anxious.
She knew that this day of suspense would bea
trial, and it was for that reason that she
had wished to spend it with Granny, and to
surround her with compensating kindness.
Granny left her bed at luncheon-time, and
Luce descended to the family meal while
the old lady's toilet was performed by her
faithful maid. Mrs. Vincent, dressed in a
blue silk gown, was hurriedly eating her
luncheon, talking and carving at the same
moment.

'^ Make haste, Dolly, the carriage will be
round directly, and you will not have
finished. Have some cold meat, Eliza,
you've eaten nothing ! Help yourself, Luce
we are all in a hurry."

Luce took her place quietly. ^^ Never
mind me, Mrs. Vincent, I shall do very
well."

'' And how is Granny? Keep her quiet,
whatever you do. I don't suppose she
really understands all that's going on,
though — and a very good thing too — old
people are generally supine."

^'I think Granny is only anxious, and
greatly feels the split in the family."

'^ Yes, of • course, that her darling boy
should turn out so badly must be disappointing.
Now, wrap yourself up well, Dolly; put
on the jacket with chinchilla; you know you
had a cold last week."

At last Mrs. Vincent and her party departed,
and Luce, having meekly received
the final injunctions and recommendations
shouted to her from the carriage window,
slowly returned to Granny's room. Granny
sat in her armchair by the fire, whence she
could look out over the terraces and the
smooth lawns and the water, to leafless woods
beyond. '' Are they gone ? " said Granny,
feebly; ^^ how long they were. I thought
the bustle would never be over."

^' Did they disturb you. Granny ? Well,

we shall be quiet enough now for the rest
of the afternoon, you and I."

Nothing disturbs me, but I shall be glad
when to-day is over."

^^ Of course you will, Granny." Then
there came silence. Luce's heart was almost
too full to speak ; she was with her lover in
thought, sharing his agitation and suspense,
intensified a thousand-fold by her vivid
imagination. If prayers and wishes could
bring a man success, Dick would certainly
triumph before the evening. Luce
looked upon him as a martyr to envy and ill-feeling,
an innocent victim of some frightful
misfortune or mistake ; it was the principle
that was at stake, not merely a party contest
for the advantage of Tory or Liberal, but
the question of a man's whole life, his
honour and peace. Her own feelings need
not be considered in the matter, she cared
personally neither for the glories of debate
nor for the applause of the senate, but she
did care that Dick's character should be
cleared, and a way opened for him to be
good and honest and happy. Never were
silent prayers offered with greater fervency
nor did purer wishes emanate from a human

breast, than the petitions and aspirations that
rose from the two anxious women, sitting together
in that quiet room, one just entering
upon, the other quitting, life, one stepping
over the threshold of careless childhood, the
other leaving behind her every stray glimmer
of hope and illusion. Not a sound broke the
silence ; the red-hot coals dropped with an
occasional thud into the marble grate below,
and the slight noise seemed to startle the two
patient watchers each time it occurred. Luce
made up the fire, handed Granny her afternoon
draught, and, as twilight came, pulled
down the blinds, giving one last lingering
look to the landscape she shut out ; the
shadow-like masses of the woods loomed
dark and gloomy against the red sky, while,
from the west, masses of threatening black
cloud drifted up and a few snow-flakes began
to float lightly down.

'^ I think we shall have a snow-storm,"
said Luce, returning from her expedition to
the window, and lighting a pair of candles,
which she placed on a small table at Granny's
side.

'^ I hope Mrs. Vincent and the girls will

not be delayed in it ; they ought to be home
now, ought they not, Luce ? ''

^' Very soon, Granny ; we must not be too
impatient you know, we cannot tell what
may delay them ; as long as there was something
interesting to hear they would stay."

'^ Oh how dreadful it is to be helpless and
old!" Granny gave a groan. Luce flew to
her side.

'^ Dear, dear Granny, I am here ; do let
me be a help and a comfort to you."

'^ Yes, child, yes, but oh, my boy, my boy,
why is he not here, why can't I welcome
him and love him as I long to ? Do you
think he is unhappy, Luce ? — say."

^^ I think he is too busy to be unhappy;
remember he has a great deal to do ; men are
more fortunate in that respect than we are."

'^ He thinks I misjudge him, I am sure,
yet I believe in his innocence most thoroughly
and would give all I have to see him cleared.
Tell him this, Luce, you will tell him when
you see him ; and besides tomorrow you
must bring him to me."

'^ Yes, yes," said Luce, soothingly, '^ we
must try to get him here to morrow."

Granny's strange excitement now abated

somewhat ; lie drank her tea reasonably, and
became almost cheerful over the hot toast.
A little later she complained of fatigue, and
requested to be left alone.

^' I will come and tell you the very
moment I hear any news," said Luce, cheerfully;
she dared not anticipate the prospect
of the news being bad. Luce ran lightly
down stairs and listened a moment, looking
over the banisters. The lamps were lit,
but the house was wrapped in inexplicable
silence. She made her way into the hall,
where the queer old prints hung and the
large marble-topped table stood littered with
newspapers. Since Granny's illness their
number had greatly diminished. Mr. Vincent
took in The Field ^ but the array of Dick's
sporting newspapers had vanished, and Mrs.
Carrol's Spectator, and Academy ^ and Saturday
Review were stopped from motives of
economy. Mrs. Vincent's sole literature consisted
of The Queen and The Christian World.
Luce took up The Christian Woidd, and
read marvellous accounts of '' dealings "
and '^ conversions," but her mind received
none of the sense though her eye wandered
over the words. The long delay was so

strange — where could they be ? She put
down the paper and opened the front door
carefully a few inches, a handful of cold
snow was immediately blown into her face.

'' Oh, if they should be delayed all night,
and Granny linger on another twelve hours
in suspense ! " she thought with terror.

It was only eight miles to West Thorpe.
Granny's well-fed horses could trot over the
ground in no time. Then why were they
not here already ? Action, toil, and labour —
anything was better than this suspense.
Hark ! The old house-dog in the stables
began to bark, yes, it was a sound of wheels
deadened by the falling snow, but still
sufficiently audible ; presently the carriage
stopped under the porch, and, as the footman
jumped down to ring the bell. Luce threw
open the door.

'^ What, Luce! " cried Mrs. Vincent's shrill
voice, ^' what do you mean by coming out
in the snow like this, you'll catch your death
of cold."

^' Oh, Mrs. Vincent! tell me, tell me,
please, quick, what has happened ? "

'^ La, child ! give me a moment's time to
breathe ? I must shake the snow off my

cloak. Dear me, it is cold to-night.
Vincent, take care of the step."

'^ What has happened?" pleaded Luce
again, with trembling hands assisting Mrs
Vincent to unrobe.

'^ I declare your fingers are all thumbs.
Make haste, Dolly and Eliza ! the draught
is awful from that hall door."

'^ Oh ! Mr. Vincent, please, has Dick been
returned ? What is the result of the election
? " again asked Luce.

Curse him, yes I " blurted out Mr.
Vincent gruffly, going up to the table where
the butler had placed some sherry and
glasses.

'returned! Really an M.P. ! " cried
Luce, her eyes dilating with surprised happiness.
'^ Really, really, oh ! what delicious
news. I must fly to tell Grranny."

'' You can tell her that Sir Hilary is dead
at the same time," observed Mrs. Vincent,
coldly. '^ She will be glad to hear that her
grandson has stepped into Parliament over a
grave."

^ A first-rate Conservative, and such a
judge of horses!" mourned uncle Vincent,
between his gulps.

^^ Dead ! no, I will not tell her that, bad
news can wait till tomorrow, but she shall
know about Dick at once," cried Luce.

Unheeding further remonstrances from
Mrs. Vincent, Luce ran upstairs, joy lending
wings to her feet, but stopped outside
Granny's door, to still the beatings of her
heart. She must on no account startle
Granny ; she remembered a French play she
had once read, ^' La joie fait peur " ; she
knew that sudden happiness might prove as
fatal as sudden grief. Composing herself by
an effort she turned the handle of the door
gently, and walked quietly in. Granny satin
the chair as she had left her, her head
thrown back on the pillow, her withered
hands folded demurely in her lap, motionless.

^^ She is asleep," said Luce; ^^ shall I
wake her, even to hear good news ? "

She approached on tip-toe ; the old lady's
face was calm as marble, the lashes had
fallen over the tired eyes. ^' Granny ! '' softly
whispered Luce. The voice was as soft as a
breath of summer wind. The old lady did
not stir. '' Oh, Granny ! good news, Dick
has conquered." Still no answer. ^^ Granny,
don't you hear? Listen! we are all so happy.

Granny, dear Granny ! " She came closer
and took one of the small thin hands. 'show
cold you are, Granny ! " then in a frightened
and shriller voice, forgetting all her precautions,
" Oh, Granny, do speak, speak to your
little Luce ; wake. Granny, wake." Luce
cried and begged — the obstinate sleeper
never moved. " Oh, Granny, do wake."
Luce sank down and laid her head in the
old lady's lap. No gentle pressure rewarded
her, no fond hand stroked her hair. Then
Luce felt as if her heart would break, an
awful terror encompassed her, the silence,
the coldness, the rigid stillness, that stillness
that is never found in life, terrified and
awed her. She began, wildly and passionately,
to kiss and press the withered unresponsive
cheek, the cold lips, the motionless eyes ;
she sobbed and cried and entreated. ^ ' Granny,
granny, hear me ! " rang in louder and shriller
accents through the room. Mrs. Vincent
heard, and mounted the stairs to investigate.
The cry of a human soul in agony was not
one she was accustomed to. She did not
approve, nor would she encourage, any unwonted
show of emotion. It savoured too
much of the old rebellious Adam, which in

well-brought up girls was not becoming.
On the threshold she paused. The cry had
ceased. The echo of her own footfall nearly
startled her, for the wings of death have a
wide and soothing sweep. She looked again.
Grranny had passed into the everlasting
silence, and Luce, crouched together, now
stopped her moaning, and lay dumb and
motionless at her feet. Even Mrs. Vincent
was awed. She closed the door gently, and
went away without speaking.

END OF VOL II.

Westminster : Printed by Nichols aucl Sons, 25, Parliament Street, S.W.

3 0112 04641 3974

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

Ji "Soil

BY

LADY VIOLET GREVILLE,

AUTHOR OF "ZOE," "KEITH'S WIFE," ETC.

Ye chiklreii of mau ! Whose life is a span.

Protracted with sorrow from day to day,
Naked aud featherless, feeble and querulous.

Sickly, calamitous Creatures of Clay."

Aristophanes.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. in.

LONDON— CHAPMAN and HALL

LIMITED.

1885.
[All Rights Heservcd.']

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

V. 3

CONTENTS.

VOLUME III.

CHAP.

I. — Where all is still
II-luce hears something .
III. — Lovers' parting
IV. — Lady Eleanor is vexed .
V. — A pretty Widow
VI. — Bruce has a Dream .
VII. — Bruce takes a little Recreation
VIII. — Luce torments herself .
IX. — A Modern Courtship
X. — Bruce forgets himself .
XI. — Leap Year

XII. — A SADDER AND A WISER MaN

XIII. — Dick grows heroic .
XIV. — Lady Fenchurch receives a Shock
XV. — Mrs. Vincent meditates .
XVI. — Foolish Longings
XVII. — Miss Fenchurch prepares for Com
Any .

XVIII. — The old Butler makes a Discovery
XIX. — Lavender

XX. — Faithful

PAGE







































CHAPTER I.

Luce was very still. She had seen Granny-buried,
helped to heap the flowers and the
wreaths upon her coffin, knelt in speechless
sorrow by the upturned earth, beheld the
village turn out with one spontaneous tribute
of love and regret, the stalwart young men
carrying their heavy burden to the churchyard,
an endless procession of mourning folk
winding like a long slow worm up the village
lane, and she wondered that they could
sob and cry and feel. For herself she
felt nothing but a cold heavy void. It
was so hard, so hard, she kept repeating,
that Granny should have been snatched
away just as all her hopes were fulfilled —
that she should not behold her darling boy
triumphant and successful. Hers was all the
heart-weariness and sorrow, and she might

VOL. III. B

not live to see the joy. Luce felt the injustice
of Life, the cruelty of Fate. To all
of us this feeling of impotent striving and
dumb rage must come in the course of our
lives : to some earlier, to some later, to all
terribly. Whether it be the boy's disappointments
or the man's foiled love and ambition,
or the old person's feeble querulousness, to
each and all there comes a moment when we
question Fate, when we try hopelessly to
guess at the enigmas of life, and unravel the
tangled chain of events; when we cry out ^^If
I had known," or murmur despairingly iritis
no use." And that cry is the worst of all.
It is the open gate to defiance, recklessness,
and negation. Luce's sorrow had stormed
itself out. She was quiet but she was indifferent.
Granny's end seemed a useless
sacrifice. Now that she was gone half the
savour of life was gone with her. Luce
scarcely thought of her lover in these days.
He was there, she had given her life to him,
and in due course they would marry, and
Granny's wishes be carried out, but it was
Granny herself that occupied Luce's mind.
Directly after the funeral she had returned
to Highview. Long Learn with Mrs. Vincent

as its mistress seemed to her horrible ;
Dick, with what she thought unnecessary
courtesy, having intimated to Mrs. Vincent
that she might remain until it suited her to
move. It did not suit Mrs. Vincent at
present ; she was really, for once in her life,
ill from vexation and disappointment. To
find that the prize had slipped from her after
all her efforts ; that Granny in death, as in
life, true to her affections, left everything in
her will to Dick, and only her savings and a
few personal effects to Vincent, besides the
small fortune to which he was naturally entitled,
was a crushing blow. Mrs. Vincent
wandered from room to room wringing her
hands, and lamenting; while the housemaids,
with the alacrity that distinguishes servants
on these occasions, restored things to their
usual places, and rapidly removed all signs
of Granny's presence.

'^ To think that I should have gained
nothing, nothing!" she moaned to herself,
stopping an instant to scold the maid for
leaving a stray pin sponte carpet. " And
that fool of a husband of mine goes about
the stables just as usual, feeling the horses'
legs and inquiring if they have had exercise ;

B 2

exercise, pslia ! when we shan't be able to
afford even a carriage for the future."

Mrs. Vincent's opinion of men's wisdom
had never been high, but in these days it
sank to an unfathomable depth. Even her
woman's wit had failed. There was nothing
to be done, nothing ! With the dead there
is no reckoning. Impotent anger and rage
filled Mrs Vincent's heart just as it did
Luce's, only they were angry with a different
object; but it did not alter matters much,
the dead are intangible as fate, and as inexorable.
Still, there she was for the present,
and there she meant to remain as long as
possible. Dolly and Eliza laboured at
their needlework and drawing as usual, and
Vincent went about the stables. Mrs. Vincent
tried to imagine that there was nothing
changed, but the entire evening's conversation
passed in one long querulous lament,
Vincent smoking and giving forth an occasional
monosyllabic repartee or unintelligible
grunt, his wife pouring out a voluble
stream of sorrows. Dick was in London
busy with deeds and lawyers. Luce had
returned home. A cloud of dull repose
seemed to have settled upon the Carrol

family. Messrs. Cherry and Appleton had
announced they did not mean to put inaction
the warrant against Dick ; the unlikelihood
of the theft, and the doubtful evidence,
were the reasons they gave ; in reality they
did not wish to quarrel with the new owner
of Long Learn, now also become a Member of
Parliament. Sir Hilary's death had changed
everything ; he was no longer there to urge
them on, and back up the proceedings. So
they wisely argued that the loss was his, and
that Lady Fenchurch in her own interest
would not press the matter any further.

They were right, as people who speculate
on the weaknesses of others usually are.
Dick desired nothing better than complete
oblivion of the past, and Lady Fenchurch's
horror at the sudden shock of her widowhood,
fortunately produced a state of nervous ill-health
which deprived her of all wish or
power to enter upon business matters. But
the gossips had a fine feast of it for all that.
Dick, always tolerably popular, grew to be a
kind of hero, and according to usual custom
all the blame was lavished on the woman.
Sir Hilary's will revealed the state of his
mind, and now that the murder was out Gubbins

did not scruple to tell all he knew.
Soon it was hinted abroad everywhere that
Sir Hilary had committed suicide, driven to
desperation by his wife's unfaithfulness, and
the partiality she displayed for Dick which
had led her to make him a present of her
pearl-necklace. Dick naturally, as always
happens in such cases, heard nothing of
these reports ; and Lady Fenchurch, wrapped
in her mourning and absorbed by her delicate
nerves, heard nothing either. So the
public gloated over the scandal, and the scandal
grew and grew till it reached Mrs. Vincent's
ears. It might have been supposed
that now the concealment of the necklace
could in nowise further Mrs. Vincent's
plans, she would have returned it surreptitiously,
while keeping herself free from
blame, to its rightful owner ; but if she had
lost her money she had at least obtained her
revenge, and Mrs. Vincent was not the
woman to forego that. When through the
gossip of the servants it first became clear to
her that innumerable lies floated about, she
rejoiced greatly. If she suffered it was at
least a kind of meagre satisfaction to think
that others suffered too ; that rumour was

busy with a woman's reputation, malignant
reports filled the air, and happiness trembled
in the balance. Dick, too, might find himself
embarrassed by Lady Fenchurch, compromised,
and annoyed. If Luce had but
one spark of spirit in her she would jilt him,
and refuse to play a secondary part. Many
things might yet happen, Mrs. Vincent
argued; she must wait and see ; it should
take a great deal to dislodge her from the
position she occupied. Perhaps Dick would
go abroad, vacate the place if affairs became
too vexatious; and then who could
better remain and fill the post of trusted
manager than Mrs. Vincent ? It was to her.
interest, she reflected, to soothe and humour
him ; she must make herself necessary, must
study his wishes. She began at once by
writing to him confidential letters, full of
suggestions, pleasant gossip, kindly advice
and offers. Dick read the letters with astonishment,
remembering the state of open warfare
in which they had always lived, and
thinking that the loss of Granny must have
weakened her head. He speculated for a
little, then laid the letters unanswered amid
the goodly pile of business communications.

bills, circulars, and lawyers' epistles with
which he was surrounded. Mrs. Vincent
meanwhile burrowed like a mole in the tortuous
underground passages she was labouring
to excavate ; discovered the butler drank
the sherry, and wrote to Dick to ask if she
should dismiss him in the latter' s interests,
then knocked off one of the under-gardeners,
declaring that it was no use keeping seven
men to do the work of six. The poor fellow,
morose and disheartened, returned to his
wife, just risen from her bed with a new-born
baby in her arms, while three other small
children toddled about and clutched at her
skirts, and talked of applying to the parish.
But Mrs. Vincent believed she had done a
good deed and saved the new owner of
Long Leam fourteen shillings a week, which
in these necessitous times is no trifle. She
sent the chintz to be washed, and put all
Granny's books away in a cupboard ; ^' nasty
freethinking works they were too," she
remarked by the way to the old housemaid.

The latter wondered and murmured that
'^ Missus had always been a God-fearing
lady."

•^ No doubt J Ann, no doubt," accentuated

Mrs. Vincent, '^ but that was in spite of
reading those bad books; she would have
been better without them, and you know
the Lord's Prayer says * Lead us not into
temptation ' — bad books are a great temptation.
I hope you will never read them,
Ann''

'^ Lor' bless you, mum," said old Ann with
a laugh," I'm no scholar, though my niece,
the third housemaid, is ; she can read beautiful,
print and handwriting and all."

^' There's the danger, Ann, young people
are so easily puffed up; tell her to mind, and
to come to me for her books."

Mrs. Vincent was feeling better; it did her
good, and braced her up to give advice, and
she flicked away with the duster she carried
right merrily.

^' Yes, Ann'' continued Mrs. Vincent;
'^ things have been happy-go-lucky here too
long. You all want brushing up ; poor old
Mrs. Carrol was past her work ; latterly she
had grown doting ; she had a habit of believing
everybody; and you know, Ann,
that leads to everybody cheating you."

'indeed, 'mum," said Ann, inserting her
gaunt body between an ebony cabinet and

the wall, in order to pursue cleaning operations
more commodiously.

'^ Yes, Ann. Of course it is quite right
that you should respect your late mistress ;
she left you a nice little legacy to buy mourning
with, and all that, but abuses which were
very well in the old days must be done away
with now. For instance, that unlimited
beer. Now you don't tell me it is necessary
for a woman to have five meals a day, and
beer and cheese at eleven o'clock. It's
positively disgusting. You don't take luncheon,
I hope ? "

She turned suddenly, and found the unfortunate
Ann, who, wiping her mouth with
her apron, thought sorrowfully of the lune
which was 'already past and
gone.

Well, mum, one feels a little dry if one
has been up since six o'clock, always dusting
and muddling about in the dirt."

'^ Dry, indeed! A respectable woman
should not give way to the sins of the flesh.
JT never take luncheon."

S No, mum ; but ladies is different."

'' I should hope they were, indeed! But,
if I am spared here, please God, I see before

me a sphere of endless usefulness. I shall
effect a revolution."

^' I am sure you will, mum." And Ann,
reflecting that with her little savings she
could live comfortably in a cottage of her
own, determined at once to give warning.

Thus admonishing, Mrs. Vincent almost
felt happy. She had the rare faculty of
believing in herself ; she never doubted her
own intentions nor distrusted her own capacity
; if there was anything to be done she
could do it, and do it better than any one
else. And this sense of perfect self-satisfaction
stood her in good stead in the ordinary
difficulties of life.

She felt herself born to rule, and resented
it as a grievance if she were forced to obey.
The rude coarseness of her husband and the
meek submission of her well-trained daughters
nourished this belief, for who could fail to
be superior to a lout who drank brandy-and-water,
and preferred the company of
stable-men ; or to girls who had seen and
known nothing of the world, and merely
answered ^^ Yes, mamma," to all observations.
Mrs. Vincent laboured under the disadvantage
of living only with people who were

manifestly her inferiors or with those who
for their own ends pretended to be so. As
lady patroness at bazaars, as secretary of the
Young Women's Aid Society, or dispenser of
clothing-clubs, her energy and stubbornness
were appreciated and required ; and she was
so accustomed to observe her friends bow
down to her decisions and refrain from
questioning her judgment, that she ceased
to think of herself as fallible. The consciousness
of high rectitude produced a kind of
warp in her conscience which enabled her to
commit with impunity, actions which in
others she would have styled reprehensible,
if not absolutely criminal. If it be therefore
asked how Mrs. Vincent contrived to combine
piety with unscrupulousness, the answer
is that her piety was so compounded as to
cover a multitude of sins with a conveniently
thin mantle of propriety. Occasionally, perhaps,
pricks of conscience made themselves
felt, rapidly however subdued by the reflection
that her liver must be out of order, otherwise
things would appear as usual in a
pleasing and meritorious light. Uncle Vincent
was not so happy as his wife. He reproached
himself acutely for the part he had taken in

the election, saying bitterly that if he had
known which way the wind blew, he would
have stuck to the ship in spite of everything.
Now, of course, he had alienated his nephew
for ever. It was not likely he would ever
befriend him again, buy horses of him, or
take his opinion about a bet. It was deuced
unfortunate, certainly, but then no power on
earth could foresee that Granny would die
without altering her will, that Dick would
succeed in getting into Parliament, and that
Sir Hilary would be such a madman as to cut
his own throat, (for the belief in suicide was
now generally diffused.) Vincent meditated
sorrowfully, he was verging on middle age, and
he had no prospects; his sons were growing
up, and his own appetite for racing and horseflesh
remained undiminished; his weight had
increased too, and his purse grown lighter, his
indulgent mother was dead, and his wife
though admirable could scarcely be called
indulgent. In tobacco alone he found a
solace; it was a cheap and a satisfactory
luxury — it eased the mind, and dulled the
brain ; and so long as a man could look at
the future through a cloud of smoke, he was
not so very much to be pitied. So he withdrew

himself more and more from female
society, and was never to be seen without a
pipe in his mouth. That, at least at present,
he comforted himself, was a habit and a
privilege reserved for the stronger sex, and
one of which it would require some years
exercise of the female franchise to deprive
the lords of the creation.

CHAPTER IT.

Matters at Highview Castle were similarly
in confusion. At first a general sense of
triumph, neatly tempered by decorous
mourning for Mrs. Carrol, animated everyone.
Now, however, that the first sense of
jubilation had worn off, various causes combined
to produce a reaction. First and foremost,
Mr. Highview was not quite satisfied
about the affair of the necklace. While the
election lasted, excitement and business
caused him to regard Dick's conduct in a
more favourable light, but now Mr. High-view
felt strongly that his going off to
London, and apparent absorption in the
affairs of his property, showed a want of
respect and proper regard for his future
uncle's feelings. Mr. Highview himself
was blessed with an inconvenient delicacy,
which made him careful not to offend, but

which, per contra inclined him to exact
more from his neighbours. This sensitive,
impressionable nature was shared by his
daughter, and formed one of the reasons of
her dislike to general society. Lady Eleanor,
on her part, in her drives and visits, had
heard the story of the supposed suicide, considerably
garbled and added to, and began
to fear that a man so hampered, morally and
socially, could scarcely prove a desirable
husband. Not that the moral responsibilities
affected her deeply, but the social difficulties
were of course not easily to be got over.
Lady Fenchurch's position might prove a
difficulty, Dick foolishly think himself bound
to marry, now he had compromised her; and,
even if he declined, she might hamper him
with claims and petulances sufficient to make
his life a burden. Lady Eleanor was not
disturbed by the contemplation of Dick's
unhappiness, but her pride revolted at the
idea of Luce coming off second best, and of
her young niece's domestic affairs being the
talk of the county. One may have corns,
but so long as nobody else perceives, by
one's limping gait that the shoe pinches,
little irrevocable harm is done. Such was

Lady Eleanor's view of life, she regarded
from the outside and based it solely on
superficial appearances. No one had less
patience than Lady Eleanor with maudlin
sentimentalities, or the feeble self-torturing
of morbid women; she had a grand constitution
and splendid health, and recognised no
evils but a doubtful social position. Maud,
as usual her confidant in the matter, cordially
agreed, remarking that Lady Eleanor was
always right.

'^ Ah, my dear ! '' placidly observed the
elder lady, turning her hand round to note
the brilliant flashing of the gems upon her
white fingers, ^^if everyone had your common
sense, girls and boys would not be so *
difficult to manage ; you are remarkably
prudent and far-seeing for your age ; but
Luce, on the contrary, is quite a child, and
so romantic."

Maud concurred, deploring unprofitable
romance.

'^ After all," continued Lady Eleanor,
lounging luxuriously among the cushions of
her boudoir, *^ a trip abroad, a short absence,
will assist the forgetfulness of the world.
Society asks no better than to condone the

VOL. III. c

follies of the rich, and Dick will be rich
now. Perhaps a honeymoon tour will do all
that is necessary, and Luce is so plain that
to find an eligible husband might be difficult.
You, of course, Maud, handsome as you are,
have had even less chance'' Lady Eleanor
never spared friends more than enemies.
'^ Men don't care to saddle themselves with
pauper relations."

^^ I don't think my husband will be
troubled by relations," said Maud, tossing
her head.

'' Quite right, my dear, sensible as usual ;
an impecunious mother-in-law always in
want of a dinner and borrowing a shilling to
pay her cabs is the very thing a man
dreads."

'' He need not dread it in my case."

^'But then you see they do not know. I
am sure young Mr. Sterneyy for instance
could not face such a prospect."

^ ' No ; he spends too much on burlesque
actresses to have anything to spare for his
mother-in-law. ' '

*^ Exactly so; but to return to Luce. Of
course it is my earnest desire to get the
child provided for. I have done my duty

by her hitherto, but I shall not consider I
have been a real mother to her till I see her
well settled. If I was quite sure about
Dick "

^' Can you not speak to him, ask him to
be honest and straightforward''

^' Men are never honest to one woman
about another."

'' That is a difficulty."

^' Then there is the woman. It is impossible
to foresee how Lady Fenchurch will
behave."

'^ She has ordered her mourning. I saw it
at Miss Shear's in West Thorpe, beautiful
crape, and quite a new style of trimming.
You know how hideous and heavy crape
usually is, now this was positively becoming."


'' That is a Avery bad sign. A widow who
thinks of what is becoming does not mean to
mourn long."

'^ Dr. Pilule is always with her they say."

'^ He is a young man: this is worse and
worse."

'^ I suppose Dick knows his own affairs
best; he is engaged to Luce."

'' Yes, and that is my greatest comfort.

c2

He understands what is due to our family
and position — he never would dare to play
fast and loose with Mr. High view's
daughter."

I suppose not," said Maud, bitterly,
reflecting that men would be troubled by no
such scruples in her own case.

'' Certainly not. And Luce has been so
well brought up that she will do whatever
she is told."

Luce herself made her appearance at
that instant, and the conversation was presently
pitched in another key, but Luce had
heard enough to cause her to understand
that in some wav her fate was involved.
The same evening, breaking through the indifference
she had displayed since Granny's
death, she followed Maud into the cosy
chintz room, whose luxuries had not yet
lost their charm for that young lady, '' Maud !
dear ' " she hesitated.

'^ Wei), what is it ? help me off with this
dress, please, what a bore things are that
fasten behind. I notice you always wear
full bodies and bands ; quite right, they are
not half the trouble."

*^ Oh ! I have no figure. I don't care a
bit about the fit of a dress as you do."

^' You should care more, Luce." Maud
fixed her bright mocking eyes on her friend's
face. ^^If you don't take care, you'll be
made a caspar of "

^^ Maud, you have heard something; what
is it ? "

^ ^ Have you guessed nothing, you innocent
baby ? "

Maud sat down in front of her glass and
proceeded to uncoil her beautiful hair,
touching it lovingly and delicately, with the
reverence due from a beautiful woman to
one of her chief weapons of fascination.
Luce watched her silently ; as an artist sid
was keenly alive to the subtle charm of
beauty.

^' And so you have guessed nothing, you
poor dear ! How long is it since you have
heard from Dick ? "

'^ Dick ! He does not write often."

^^ So I should think. And have you talked
of the wedding day ? "

^^ Oh, Maud, I am in no hurry ; poor Granny
is oily just dead, remember." Luce dropped
into a chair, and laid her hands in her lap.

'^ Granny was an old woman and you and
Dick are young; you cannot mourn for ever,
it is scarcely flattering to your intended."

^' He has said nothing yet."

^^ Has it never occurred to you that he
might have reasons for not hurrying on his
marriage ? Usually, a lover is impatient for
the woman to name the day."

'^ A lover, yes." Luce thought to herself
that where the love was on one side only,
things might be different.

^' He is your lover, I suppose, as you are
engaged to him, and you have always talked
so much about not marrying for anything
but love."

Yes," echoed Luce, in a faint voice.

Very well then ; if I were you I should
not be satisfied to have his name coupled
with that of another woman "

^' Another woman ! " The voice though
faint was no longer listless.

'^ Another woman, an old love. Lady
Fenchurch."

'' Who couples their names? What do you
mean? It is all a lie." Luce's eyes flashed
as quiet orbs can, when their owners are
strongly excited.

^^If you were not so absorbed in your own
thoughts you would hear what is said around
you and know this is not a lie."

•^ Not a lie?"

'^ You echo like a parrot. Don't you want
to know what is said about you and Dick ? "

'- Yes,"

'^ With all your philosophy you're as
sensitive to the opinions of others as anyone
I know."

'' Go on, please," said Luce, with a gasp,
steeling herself to endure a moral surgical
operation.

''So I will when 1 have arranged my
thoughts. Did you ever hear the particulars
of Sir Hilary Fenchurch's death ? " •

Of course I heard lie was dead — of a fit,
I think - but I had never seen him, you
know."

^' And therefore, though a good Christian,
you could only pay him complimentary
mourning, but yet his death affects you
personally. Do you know how he died?"

'•No."

^' He committed suicide." Maud leant
forward and darted out these words with the
tragic precision of an accomplished actress.

She did not miss her point. Luce started
back.

^^ He, suicide! Why?"

'' Because he found out something about
his wife and Dick that did not please him —
and because — can't yon guess ? "

Lady Fen church ! " Luce clasped her
hands together nervously, trying to clear
her brain sufficiently to comprehend the gist
of the matter. '' Lady Fen church is nothing
to Dick — it is all a mistake."

^^ A mistake then that is likely to have remarkably
disagreeable consequences," observed
Maud, plaiting up her hair. '' When a
woman's husband commits suicide on ace
count of her love affairs, especially if he
disinherits her in his will, it is not likely to
improve her position in the world."

^^ Do people say this?" asked Luce, her
eyes wide open in a stare of puzzled terror.

'' They say it, and also that she gave
Dick her necklace to pay his debts — it was
never found, you remember ; and now you
know as much as I do about the matter."
Maud turned to her looking-glass and stuck
her heavy plait up with hair-pins. There
was silence for a few moments. Luce

breathed painfully but she did not speak.
Maud was obliged to look over her shoulder
to note the effect of her communication.

show silent you are — don't you care?
I must say Dick has not treated you well ;
however, I suppose he would hardly tell you
all this, and he trusted that you would never
find it out. Poor child, did it mind ?
Believe me, there are as good fish in the sea
as ever came out of it."

'*I suppose you meant kindly in telling
me this," Luce said, as she rose slowly,
knotting her hands while she spoke, " but I
wish — I wish I were still in ignorance."

'' Of course you do ; but really, Luce, it is
better sometimes to look things in the face.*
Wilful ignorance is the act of a fool."

^' You have often called me a fool. I
suppose everyone who trusts and believes ina
fellow creature is a fool ?"

^' Don't become cynical, Luce, it is bad
taste now — everyone talks of universal
brotherhood-pray don't go away in this
abrupt manner." Luce made a movement
towards the door. '' You look so pale, and
you won't sleep, and only fret yourself to
death. Do stay, and let us talk it over''

"I cannot talk, I feel choked."

^^You are dreadfully sensitive'' said
Maud, looking complacently at her own
fair face in the glass ; '^ there is not a bit of
use in being too good for this world."

'^ The world is too good for me," said
Luce, escaping as she uttered this paradox.
Maud shrugged her shoulders. She had
experienced already so many slips between
the cup and the lip that she grew to regard
them as part of the world's economy, and
reflected that, after all, she was none the
worse — if one marriage fell through, it was
easy to look about for another. As long as
youth and beauty endured there was no
ground for despondency; but then Luce, she
supposed, really cared. What a silly a girl
must be, really to care. Maud, smiling at
her friend's infatuation, placed her candle
by her bedside and laid a new railway novel
close to it, with which she purposed to read
herself to sleep ; then she fell upon her knees
and said her prayers. The habit taught her
and persevered in from childhood, had
become second nature. The petitions she
presented were generally mechanical, sometimes
almost pagan in their outspokenness.

yet it was one of the few practices she clung
to superstitiously. She could never tell; she
might be seized with illness, a fire might
break out, it was better to say one's prayers,
and have some kind of claim on the protection
of the Deity. After that, an exciting
novel to lull one to sleep offered an agreeable
variety.

Luce, shut up in her small bedchamber,
which Lady Eleanor considered sufficiently
furnished with the barest and simplest of
necessaries, knelt down to no evening
prayers with the calm indifference of Maud.
She locked the door, placed the candle on
the dressing-table, and began to walk up
and down, up and down, restlessly. The
wild animal which is in each of us was let
loose ; she could not rest, she could nqt sit,
she wanted movement ; she had mourned so
deeply and vicariously for Granny, her
thoughts had been lately raised so much to
Heaven and the joys and mystery of eternity,
that it caused her a shock and a wrench to
fix them suddenly on more mundane objects,
to decide what was truth in the world's
verdict, and reflect on the duties owing to
society. Society, the fetish to which her

young life had always been sacrificed ; the
insatiable monster that had swallowed up all
her youthful impulses and turned her most
innocent joys to gall. In her marriage at
least, she had hoped to escape from the bondage
of society ; she was taking the man she
loved, without afterthought of rank or
fortune ; with him she meant to lead a true,
a natural, a human life, there were to be no
clouds between them, no shadow of an untruth.
He had told her plainly about his
former love, he had done nothing underhand
towards that love, all had seemed simple and
straightforward and clear, but now — Luce
pressed her hands to her head, the throbbing
veins seemed as though they would burst.
Suicide was a crime. Luce, reared in
Christian habits of thought, could not persuade
herself that men had the right to throw
away the precious gift of life whenever they
were weary and sick at heart ; it was cowardly,
she felt, to desert a post of danger— nothing
could palliate or excuse the crime. And to
this, Dick and the wretched man's wife were
partners. They had driven Sir Hilary to
the despair that prompted the deed — they
were partners in guilt. The world had

already visited some of the consequences
upon the woman ; her reputation was assailed.
Defenceless, she could only go to destruction
; Dick must not leave her now. Formerly
it had appeared a duty for him to forget her,
and to marry another woman, it seemed
like closing the forbidden book, and turning
strenuously away to a higher and a mightier
right ; now the poor sinning creature had a
claim to the man's compassion, his service,
and his love. Luce shuddered. The shadow
of the cross had fallen on her life, the great
mystery of sacrifice and suffering was revealed
to her. Just because she was the stronger —
because, in the power of her love, she could
soar above the petty interests and scruples
of ordinary folk — for that very reason it washer
duty to take the initiative, to plunge the
dagger into her own heart, and draw it out
again smiling. She thrust open the window,
for a breath of air. The sky was dark with
deepest blue, and pierced with stars, which
flickered and twinkled in innumerable
clusters. They seemed to befriend her, to
encourage her in the vastness which made
her feel only one small trembling unit in the
throbbing universe. Her one little ife was

so short, her one sacrifice so infinitesimal,
while the mighty right was eternal and
immutable. Gradually her heart ceased to
beat so violently, a sense of cold calmed the
fever in her veins. The trees rustled faintly
in the chill night air. She waited till the
crowing of a distant cock, and the gradual
sotto-voce tuning of the birds awaking from
their nests, warned her it was morning.
Then she slowly shut the window and withdrew
into the room, which now felt damp
and chilly. She undressed quickly, and,
shivering, flung herself into bed. Everything
bright and beautiful was slipping from
her ; she welcomed the mere sense of fatigue
and exhaustion, that lulled her nerves, and
numbed the aching pain that gripped her
in its powerful grasp

CHAPTER III.

Luce was not one to let the grass grow under
her feet ; she shrank and quivered keenly
under the blow that struck her ; but the
resolve formed in her midnight hour of communion
beneath the friendly stars, never for
an instant deserted her. She knew that she
had renounced happiness, but when she saw
the straight path of duty stretching out clearly
before her, she felt calmer and quieter.
There is that advantage to be gained in
acting rather on principle than on impulse,
that once a decision is formed, a sense of
peace and directness immediately becomes
its accompaniment. Luce appeared at
breakfast the next morning calm and unruffled
; and Maud, who looked up quickly at
her entrance, expecting to see some traces of
the night's struggle, noticed nothing at all

remarkable in her appearance, but an almost
imperceptible quiver of the eyelids. Lady
Eleanor's toilet, which was of an elaborate description,
requiring both time and attention
on the part of a first-rate French maid, never
permitted her to appear much before noon.
If, therefore, any one of the family desired to
speak to her, it was necessary to ask for
entrance to her bed-room. Luce, as soon
as the family meal was over, knocked at her
door. Lady Eleanor thought she had come
about some arrangements for a prospective
dinner-party, and admitted her at once.

'' Will you write the invitations, Luce ?
Here are some cards." Luce submitted, and,
taking a seat at the writing-table, obediently
indited notes and directed envelopes. When
she had finished and Lady Eleanor leant
back reflectively in her arm-chair trying to
remember if any one had been inadvertently
forgotten, she said quietly, holding her pen
still wet with ink before her,

^' Aunt, do you object to my asking Dick
here to spend the day ? I have some matters
to talk over, and writing is difficult."

Lady Eleanor started. Could the child
have overheard her conversation ? Was she

anxious to press on the marriage so as to
leave no loophole of escape to her future
husband ? On second thoughts, she decided
that Luce had not sufficient guile in
her composition to render such scheming
likely.

^^You wish to see Dick ?" she answered
after a pause which made Luce look up
nervously.

'^ Yes, aunt, I have scarcely seen him since
our engagement and so many things have
happened; there is no objection surely."

'^ No certainly, no objection." Lady
Eleanor passed her thin cambric handkerchief
across her mouth. ^^ But Dick is in
London. I fancy he is detained by business."


^^ It is only a few hours' journey from
town, Dick thinks nothing of travelling."

^' Well, it is for him to decide ; do you
wish me to write and invite him ?"

^^If you do not mind, 1 will write myself."


^^ Certainly." Lady Eleanor was puzzled.
Luce did not generally act with decision, in
fact the formal accusation brought against her
was of being always in the clouds. '^ I sup-vol.

III. D

pose you wish to speak to him about the
wedding-day, it is rather strange that he
should not already have mentioned it."

'^No, no, he is in deep mourning and weare
in no hurry ; it is better that we should
learn to know each other."

This was not at all what Lady Eleanor
desired. She had a horror of long engagements.


'^ I hope to goodness, my dear, your engagement
will not drag on indefinitely.
Nothing is so injurious both to the temper
and the prospects of a young person''

^' I don't think you need fear. It will not
drag on interminably'' said Luce with a
strange smile.

^' Very well then, you can write to Dick."

Luce availed herself of the desired permission,
but forbore to announce the fact to
Maud, who consumed herself in helpless wonder
as to the course events were taking.

Dick answered Luce's letter in the affirmative,
and a few day later she made her
way down the approach, to meet him on his
arrival from the station. The dog-cart had
been sent for him, and very soon she espied

him driving it himself, • and looking particularly
bright and and happy. Luce was nervous
and miserable. There is something so
cruel in being the bearer of bad news, to one
who advances unconsciously to his fate with a
smile on his lips and perfect trust in his
heart. For an instant Luce regretted that
she had ever invited him ; she could have
written, it would have been easier, and then
she need not have seen his smiling happy
face unclouded by a care before her, while
she uttered the fateful words. No, that was a
cowardly thought after all ; she had no reason
to suppose he would care; did he not tell her
he only married to please his grandmother ?
Possibly he would thank Luce for what she
was going to say. She braced herself to
smile at him and say good morning. He
pulled up immediately, threw the reins to
the groom, and jumped out. In another
instant he was walking beside her, away
from the house towards the shrubbery.

^' It was very jolly of you to send for me.
Luce," he said lightly, breaking off a bit of
laurustinus and sticking it in his button hole.
'' 1 shouldn't have thought of coming if you
had not written, for I don't believe Lady

D 2

Eleanor appreciates my company particularly."


^^ Oh yes, Dick, she has spoken so kindly
of you lately'*

I find everyone much kinder since I have
succeeded to Long Leam," he said with a
laugh. " After all, the world is a good
place to live in, provided one has plenty of
money."

Dick ! "

'' Don't preach, Luce. I'm going to be
awfully steady, pay all my debts, (that
tailor of mine, who used always to dun me,
now does nothing but beg me for custom
and offer me credit,) it's a real joke, I
can tell you, and then I'm going to keep up
the old place just as Granny liked, and you
can look upon the fine house she was so
proud of, as your own property. I think she
would be pleased if she knew, don't you,
Luce ? "

^* I wonder if she does know. Don't you
think love must bO subtle enough to pierce
through space, and that even in heaven she
must feel how much we love her, and how
we miss her ? Dick, she was so good to meno
human being ever was so good to me''

'^ She was an old dear," responded Dick,
flogging with his light cane at the tall grasses
by the shrubbery walk. ^' I'm extremely
grateful to her. I don't know how I could
have gone on much longer, I was horribly
pressed for money."

Luce put her hand to her heart. This
speech more than corroborated all she had
been told. The debts, the gift of the necklace,
Lady Fenchurch's acceptable help.

^' You will not want it so much now," she
said quietly.

•^ Oh, no! I shall take care. It is a great
nuisance being in debt, but what is a fellow
to do if he has not got the means ? " «

^ ' I suppose one ought to deny oneself the
luxuries one cannot afford ? "

'' You speak like a girl. What is the use
of being a young man with prospects if one
is to live like an ascetic old monk ? However,
thank goodness, that is all past andover
now, and I shall be a model for the
future — when we are married ! " He turned
and kissed her cheek impulsively.

^« Oh, Dick!"

*' Nonsense ! don't play the little prude ;
we shall be married soon now, I suppose ? "

He drew her hand within his arm, and
patted it kindly. His cordiality, his insurances
his evident happiness, made Luce's
task harder. Her hopes died away, and her
courage receded. After all, if he were
satisfied, and glad to have her, and strained
after no desires or discontented longings,
why should she stir up muddy depths in the
brightly springing fountain of his life ? With
a desperate determination she said,

'^ Dick, was not that dreadful about Sir
Hilary ? "

'^ Dreadful, dear, but it was lucky for me,
too. "

^' Lucky''

'^ Well, you know, that beastly affair about
the necklace was still hanging over me, and
now, of course, it is at an end."

'' And you are glad ? "

^^ Naturally."

'soh! how I wish the thief could be
found ! "

''So do I." But Dick's voice was far less
enthusiastic than that of Luce.

Her fears deepened. Surely no one who
was perfectly innocent could talk so calmly.
She had not yet quite comprehended Dick's

nature, which, easily diverted from serious
thought, attached no importance to facts of
which the consequences were remote. As
long as he saw himself threatened with so
positive an evil as a jail, he suffered acutely,
but the instant the immediate danger was
removed he could talk with equanimity, or
even sneer at intangible and unlikely difficulties.
Luce liked to grapple firmly with a
danger or an annoyance, to face it bravely,
and note all its bearings ; he preferred to
evade, to procrastinate, to forget. The one
temperament is essentially lymphatic, and of
the soap-bubble kind, and results in a smooth
gentlemanly egoism, which carries its owner
agreeably over the shallows and rapids
down the stream of life, until it meets with
some overwhelming crashing torrent, in
which it utterly collapses. The other temperament,
nervous and excitable, spares no
pains, and intensifies each trouble as it comes,
but in the long run the dangers are surmounted,
the rocks avoided, and the slender
bark sails quietly out into the calm ocean.
Luce wondered at Dick's unconcern, and
attached far graver importance to it than it
deserved.

^^Dick/' she continued, timidly, twisting
a bit of grass between her fingers. '^ Dick,
what will become of Lady Fenchurch ? "

•^ Lady Fenchurch ? By Jove, how
should / know what becomes of pretty
women when they are widows ? I suppose
she is rich, and she is young and independent
, she will probably travel at first, and
eventually marry."

^' But — her first love ? "

'^ Her first love? Oh! you mean her
fancy for me. I am sure I don't know if it
was her first love, I should think that very
unlikely. Well, I suppose she has got over
it now ; we had enough annoyance about it.
I don't think it was all roses for her with
that old curmudgeon of a husband, and at
any rate I am going to be married now."

^^ We are not married yet."

'' Not yet ; but I don't see why we should
lose any time about it. I am my own
master, and Mrs. Vincent must turn out
whenever I choose''

There was a pleasant conviction of power
and freedom about Dick as he said these
words. Not so very long ago Mrs. Vincent
ruled supreme, and had the power to expel

him from the house of which he was now
the fortunate owner. The tables were
certainly turned upon her in a most satisfactory
fashion. Dick raised his head and
threw back his shoulders with a consciously
satisfied movement.

^^ But, Dick, there are others to be considered,"
said the gentle tremulous voice at
his side.

'' Of course I shall consider you." Her
hand had dropped from his arm, and the pale
earnest face was turned away from him.

^^ I do not mean myself, I mean Lady
Fenchurch."

Dick gave a long whistle.

'' By Jove ! I don't think I need consider
her, I thought we settled all that long ago."

'' But remember this dreadful story about
the suicide, the poor thing is penniless and
her reputation damaged."

The pale face was turned towards him now
and glowed with passionate pleading.

'^ What do you mean ? Really, Luce,
excuse me, but I do not think this is at all
your business."

eyes, Dick it is my business; I should
never feel happy if I were the means of

making another woman wretched. She
loved you and you loved her once, and she
has lost a great — great deal for you — what a
woman prizes most in the world, her good
name, and I — how have I deserved to be so
happy ? "

because you are a first-rate good sterling
little woman," said her lover warmly, clutching
at the hand she tried to withdraw
from him, and getting it again into his
possession. The pressure of his fingers
thrilled through her body; she was longing
to love him ; it seemed very hard, of her
own accord to give him up.

^^ Oh, Dick, don't praise me; indeed,
indeed, I'm not good or strong or wise, but
I want you to be all that."

^' So I shall, some day. I am sure you'll
live to be proud of me; you shall have everything
you like, horses and dogs, and yards
of flannel for the poor people, and the parson
to dinner whenever you please."

"" No, no, don't tempt me, do try and
understand, you can't build a house on a
sandy foundation; your whole life mustn't be
founded on a wrong ; you must be strong
and noble, strong for me and yourself."

^^I can't be strong without you. Now
what do you want me to do ? "

'not to forsake the poor woman whose
love for YOU has caused her so much suffering."


'' How ? "

'' I mean you must marry her and not
me."

Luce's head drooped. Her serious eyes
no longer sought his to persuade and
strengthen.

'^ You are mad," he let her hand go
angrily, *^ you must be mad."

No, Dick, I have thought seriously and
deeply, you owe her this reparation."

^^ Stuff!" *

'' Dick do, do let us try to act rightly."

'^ Act like lunatics, you mean," he said,
biting at his moustache, ^^ what would everyone
say ? Besides, I don't care to marry her
now, when she has been talked about."

'^ Oh Dick, is that kind and manly ? Her
faults are yours, her mistakes are yours, her
troubles were caused by you ; she is free,
she is alone and defenceless, to whom can
she look for comfort but to you ? "

'^ This is not fair. Luce, you have no right

to make such an appeal to me. I understood
you pretended to care for me ? "

^^So I do, I care more than ever I did''
A big tear rose to her eyes, but she dashed
it away with her hand, ^' it is because I care
I say these things."

^^ I must say it is a droll kind of affection,"
he answered, dryly, '' that hands a man over
to some other woman, a woman too who has
played fast and loose with him "

Still she loved you''

^' I think she loved herself better."

^^ It is the privilege of a man to protect a
woman."

'^ Certainly, but he is 'not bound to protect
all women."

Luce ceased speaking. She had exhausted
her powers of argument and persuasion.
Naturally inclined to be silent, it had cost
her no slight effort to say all she did. She
felt sick and weary, and very hopeless. The
path, along which they were walking, would
at any other moment have delighted her
with its singular beauty. They were in a
species of wild shrubbery allowed to grow in
luxurious negligence and indulge the full
exuberance of nature. Sturdy rhododendron

bushes extended in glossy symmetrical
mounds as far as the gravel. Between them,
among ferns and grasses, a blue carpet of
hyacinths spread away into the distance ; at
her feet heavy-headed daffodils swayed and
nodded gently ; laburnum and lilac trees,
their brown branches tipped with little
green points, overarched her head, and small
drops of glistening dew fell as she brushed
against the overhanging boughs ; or touched
the blades of wet grass with her skirts. Luce
felt the beauty of the scene as one feels some
person tapping outside a glass window that
one can see without hearing any noise ; it was
all beautiful, she knew it was beautiful — the
budding spring, the early flowers with their
bright colours, and the dearness, and freshness,
and sweetness, and yet it did not touch
her. Dick walked on, angrily swishing his
cane at the innocent daffodils, and she
followed, breathlessly, feeling sorry for the
poor pretty things.

And so you wish to be quit of me ? I
understand ; perhaps I am not rich enough,
or you believe all the nonsense you have
heard, or you care for some one else."

'' No, no'' she panted.

^^ If I thought — Luce I shall never forgive
you, never, never. I was a fool ; I fancied
that you cared for me, really for me, not for
my position, or my name, or — and you're
just like the others, you only think of yourself,
you only consider your own happiness."

'' Oh, Dick, indeed — "

Don't explain anything, I don't want to
hear, I will marry Lady Fenchurch if you
wish it. I daresay she will be pleasant and
amiable enough: she will have her own way
in everything, but I shall never trust a
woman again, never, never ! "

He stopped breathless with anger.
^^Dick," she began soothingly, ''' please
don't imagine I am thinking of myself. I —
oh, you know Dick what I feel."

'^ How can I tell what a girl feels ? Capricious,
foolish, heartless creature."

*' But don't you see that our duty, yours
and mine, is to Lady Fenchurch ? "

^' I don't see it a bit, I don't acknowledge
any duty, I refuse to acknowledge anything
but your wishes and our love."

'' Our love ! Did not you always tell me
you had only loved Lady Fod church ; that
I " — she pressed her hands against her bosom,

and the big tears rained down — ^^was only to
be a kind of companion, a sister, to please
Granny ? ''

'' Oh well," he said in a kinder tone, ^^ I
daresay I did not mean all I said ; I was very
sore about Lady Fenclmrch then, but I see
things more quietly now ; come. Luce, don't
be a little fool, I always thought you such a
sensible girl ; say you will marry me, and let
us forget all this nonsense."

Luce shook her head, the sobs were coming
thick and fast, in another moment she would
not be able to control them.

'' What — you won't ? Oh yes, try to be a
good little girl''

Luce made an effort ; what must he think
of her, offering to give him up, and crying
like a baby as she did so ? Where was her
philosophy, her firm resolve, her determined
self-denial ?

^^Dick, we had better not discuss the matter
any more. My mind is made up."

^^ And you won't marry me — you refuse —
calmly intend to jilt me — is that your last
word ? "

^^I think you ought to give me up and
ask Lady Fenchurch to marry you'

sand of course she will' he said bitterly.

^^ Here's a nice state of things — to be
saddled with a woman you don't want and
lose the woman you do. I declare I'm the
most unlucky fellow in the world."

'' Dick, I am so sorry," she said, stealing
her hand into his with the confidence of a
child.

^' And it's your fault if I'm unhappy," he
said, dropping her hand with an angry jerk,
^^ all your fault ; you said you would take mein
hand, that you cared for me ; and it was
all going right, I felt so happy and so good
as I came down here, thinking of you and
all we were going to do — by Jove, I hadn't
felt so good since I was a boy in knickerbockers
and saved up my money to buy
toffee, and now you've smashed up the whole
thing; if I go to the devil it's all your fault."

Luce sighed. He heard the sigh and proceeded
more glibly.

But there, when women want to annoy
one they can do it, trust them for that, first
Lady Fen church and then you. Do you really
mean all you have just said, or were you
only trying me ? "

'' I mean it."

'^ Then good-bye, there is no use In wasting
any more words about it," he pulled out
his watch, and looked at it; ^^ I can just
walk across the fields, and catch the next
train back to town, while you explain the
cause of my non-appearance to Lady
Eleanor''

^^ Surely, Dick, you will not go like this,
Mr. Highview expected you."

'' And I expected a very different welcome
also, but you see I was mistaken, and he
will have to beat* his disappointment as best
he can. Good-bye." He spoke roughly and
turned to go, then seeing Luce's imploring
look he stopped and said, '' Luce, on my
solemn word of honour I'm sorry to leave *
you, shake hands with me and wish me luck.
I've a kind of queer feeling that you can
bring it if you choose."

Luce put out her hand and looked at him
with all the yearning love of her heart visible
in her clear eyes ; he didn't stay to look, but
squeezed the hand she gave him passionately,
then without another word he left her,
standing alone and comfortless in the dewy
path.

VOL. III. E

CHAPTER IV.

The hardest part of Luce's task was not
finished with that interview in the shrubbery.
In moments of great mental tension there is
a power that raises us above the level of
ordinary emotion, the Lethe of excitement
dulls the pain and renders us impervious to
the suffering we are enduring. But when
the friendly Lethe leaves us, when we seethe
full extent of the sacrifice, behold our
life stripped of the love we willingly surrendered,
are pricked by sneers or irritated by
well-meaning comfort and advice, then
indeed we realise the meaning of our loss.
The sweet spring day, the brilliant sunshine
growing warmer as the hours proceeded, the
birds' airy flight skimming low over the
smooth shaven lawns, the merry capers and
abrupt pauses of the little rabbits darting in

and out, were loathsome to poor Luce ; never
had the way home seemed so long, never had
her steps lagged so wearily. It all had to be
faced ; the surprised looks of the men-servants
gathered to relieve Dick of his wraps and
luggage as she entered alone, the kindly
questioning of Mr. Highview in the library
where the door stood open so that she could
not pass unobserved. Lady Eleanor's astonishment,
her regret for the elaborate toilet she
had unnecessarily made, mingled with anger
for her niece's foil?, Maud's evident amusement
and undisguised contempt. Luce braved
it all with a quiet unconcern that she herself
wondered at. Though her heart felt
fit to break and she was desperately longing
to throw herself on some friendly bosom and
weep out her sorrows, she found strength to
answer Lady Eleanor's torrent of inquiries,
and to hold her own in the vindictive cross-examination.


^' And he seemed pleased to see you and
was very kind?" said Lady Eleanor in her
chest satirical voice.

^' Yes certainly, he was very kind,"
^^ And you actually broke off your engagement?"


e2

'^ We agreed that it was best so." Here
Luce took her stand, and to all efforts to
break through the defences of love, shame,
and vanity only answered, ^^ It was best so."

*^ And do you know. Miss, what it means
to be a jilted girl ? " asked Lady Eleanor,
magnificent in her rising wrath.

I can guess."

^^No one will believe for a moment that
you broke it off; girls never do those things;
they will say he was tired of you, that you
were deformed, or had bad health, or a bad
temper."

I cannot help it."

ungrateful minx!" and Lady Eleanor
sailed from the room to overwhelm her
husband with reproaches and lamentations.

Kind Mr. Highview was sorely distressed.
He was tolerably ignorant of girls' natures,
and could not tell how much they meant of
what they said, but he felt pretty certain
that Luce loved Dick, and that it caused hera
pang to give him up. Personally he saw
no necessity for her sacrificing herself to an
abstract sense of duty, especially for a
woman who had been talked about, Mr.
Highview had all a respectable man's

horror of a lady's tarnished reputation, but
he could not refrain from according Luce,
however grudgingly, a meed of respectful
admiration. He knew his wife's persistency
and her love of rule too well not to anticipate
with dread on Luce's behalf the annoyances
her conduct must necessarily entail.
Like a man too, he endeavoured to explain
away matters, to expostulate, and to soothe,
and succeeded neither in allaying Lady
Eleanor's wrath nor in materially assisting
Luce. Such are the excellent but feeble
natures that endeavour to stem revolutions
with partial concessions, or throw themselves
into the breach of parties with a pleasant'
observation or a text from the Bible. In an
instant their frail interposition is brushed
aside like the advances of an impertinent
fly, and their advice promptly disregarded.

'^ But, my dear," poor Mr. High view suggested,
'* you see it may be only a little misunderstanding,
a lover's quarrel. I am sure
we had our lover's quarrels, once upon a
time, too."

'' I am sure we never had lover's quarrels
indeed, I never was a fool if you were Mr.

Highview, and I tell you Luce has broken
her engagement, turned young Carrol off,
given him his liberty."

He will return to her."

^^ Will he? I doubt it. Freedom is too
pleasant to a gay and rich young man for
him to give it up lightly."

^' Well, at least it is better not to marry in
haste and repent at leisure."

'' I am sure if women did not marry in
haste they would never marry at all; men's
nature shows itself in the worst light soon
enough."

'^ Shall I speak to Dick ? " Mr. Highview
was standing by his desk in the library, the
sun shining on the top of his grey head and
into his meek blue eyes, which blinked to
avoid the garish light.

''^ You speak to him — what can you do ? "

^' Well, not much, but I thought

'^ Men always will think wrong.'

*^ Sometimes a word "

Fudge. It will be horribly trying and
awkward. Jilted by a man in one's own
county, whom by superhuman exertions one
had got into Parliament, and a good parti
too, and Luce so dreadfully plain, and she

V

stoops worse than ever ; oh dear, oh dear !
how shall I ever face all the gossiping and
the looks and the sneers; but men never feel
for one, never, never ! "

'' I am sure no one can be more grieved,
more disappointed than I am, but what is
to be done P"

^^ Your niece deserves to be punished, and
I hope she will be punished ; the worst of it
is she will punish us all too." Lady Eleanor
sat down exhausted, and Mr. High view continued
to stand by the table, concerned and
irresolute, wishing to help, and ignorant in
what way he could render any services ;
foiled in his pleading and fussy in his weak .
anxious desire to do what was best."

'' The long and the short of it is," said
Lady Eleanor after a pause, "that the girl is
determined to ruin her whole life, to throw
away a chance and to annoy me, and I don't
exactly see how it is to be helped. It is no
use locking up a girl who does not care for
society, and, as for starving her into submission,
those things can't be done except ina
novel."

*' Well, certainly I should not advise starving,
one might knock off a little wine or

sweetmeats, girls are fond of sweetmeats ;
what do you think ? Wine could not matter,
for all the doctors are mad on the temperance
question."

^^ That is child's play ; besides, for aught we
know Dick Carrol may consider himself fortunate,
he was always rather wild and odd,
and fond of betting and low company. That
Mr. Bruce, now, was in my opinion a
most dangerous adviser, a communist in an
evening tie, and a very badly tied one too."

^' He was a student and a quiet kind of
young fellow I think, always kept his place,
and seemed to listen attentively when I
talked about the crops and the processes of
agriculture ; got that from Virgil, you know,
the Georgic — almost the only Latin I ever
cared for."

^' Bruce must be at the bottom of all this,"
said Lady Eleanor firmly, ^^he is a social
agitator, and that sort of man is always
intriguing ; they must intrigue, it is their
bread and butter."

'' Well, well, my dear, it is a bad business;
but perhaps you are right, women have a
fine instinct, a deuced fine instinct, and yet

they get so taken in by their lovers, I never
could understand how it is."

'' You need not worry your brains about
those things, I am sure ; you had better help
me with your refractory niece."

^* I will help you, Eleanor; by this time
you ought to know that I always do what I
can to help you."

Lady Eleanor pouted, as much as to say
Oh, I dare say, we all know how little you
can do'' and swept from the room to talk
the matter over with the more congenial and
acuter Maud. Maud was surprised at the
news of the broken engagement. She made
a pretty shrewd guess at the depth of Luce's
affection for Dick, and she had never for an
instant supposed that a girl, however silly
she might be, would, to use her own racy
parlance, ^^cut off her nose to spite her
face ; " she therefore easily surmised that
there was more in the affair than she could
fathom.

^^It is no use scolding or arguing," she
said to Lady Eleanor, adding with a smile,
'' 1 know a little of womankind myself, and
it is impossible to talk them into or out of
love. I think with you that in a few da3^s

Luce will bitterly regret what she has done,
and probably try all in her power to get
Dick back."

'' And, of course, he won't come."

'' There is the danger. You must try to
be civil to Dick and keep on terms with him,
and then there is no knowing what course
events may take."

'' To think that I should have to sit still
and wait a girl's good pleasure," sighed Lady
Eleanor, '^ what is the world coming to ? "

'^ It is deplorable," said Maud, secretly
wondering whether now he was free it would
be possible for her to make an impression on
her cousin. She feared not. When a man
has acquired indifference, no dead volcano is
more difficult to rouse. And there was
Arthur Sterneyy meanwhile engrossed with his
burlesque actresses, and her youth slipping
away, and her chances of marriage diminishing
every day. Oh! the folly of some girls,
and the wisdom of others, and the inequalities
of life. It made her bitter. Presently she
said, '^ Lady Eleanor, what do you think of
change of scene ? "

^- Change of scene, my dear ? "

' Yes, Luce has seen nothing of the world.

she has not yet been presented; why not
give her a season in London. I am sure
there is nothing to keep people in the
country just now — shooting over, hunting in
an expiring condition with March winds
and a scarcity of foxes, and lawn tennis not
yet begun — there is no hope for a girl here,
and I am sure you must pine for society."

*' It is certainly dull, but Luce will be of
no use in London, she is so absurdly shy,
and we have no town house now, you know.
Since we built High view Castle, Mr. High-view
pretends he cannot afford it."

You must coax him; he will do what you
wish, I am sure."

Well, I believe I have some influence
with him," said Lady Eleanor consciously,
settling her laces. She owned beautiful
lace, inherited from her grandmother, and
loved to display her knowledge of the differences
between '^ point d'Alen^on," ^' point de
Venise,"'' applique," and^'point d'Espagne."

'' Of course no one manages better than
you do. Now, Lady Eleanor, your only
chance is to take a nice house in London,
give dinner-parties, and cajole Dick back
to your side."

*^ I am sure I am quite willing, but to
think that I must take all this trouble for
some one else's child. Doesn't it show how
necessary it is for every one to have a
family ? Ah ! Providence has not been
bounteous to me, and yet I had such a fine
figure when I married."

^' So you have now; I never saw such
beautiful shoulders as yours in an evening
gown''

Lady Eleanor smiled. Certainly Maud
would have suited her better than Luce.

'^ At any rate, Maud, you must take up
your abode with us in London. Oh, I never
could endure all the worry and the letter-writing
unless I have you to help me; will
you come ? "

Maud murmured something about '^ my
mother,"

'' Don't you see, your mother can let her
house, and visit among her friends; that will
be such an economy."

Maud saw her advantage. ^^ But the servants,
our servants are so excellent, and so
obliging, we could not afford to part with
them, and what would become of them ? "

'^ You must let them with the house. Yes

indeed, it is often done ; Lady Pinchwell did
it last year, and so did Mrs. Briskly."

'^ Mrs. Briskly— but then no servants ever
stay with her more than a few months''

At any rate you must manage it ; write
to your mother at once, and say I desire it ;
she will do anything for your advantage I
know, a most sensible, easy-going woman,
is your mother."

Maud laughed The impressions we convey
to our friends are sometimes so strangely
different from our real personalities. Maud
knew her mother so thoroughly, her world -
lines, her selfishness, her love of petty
shifts; sensible she was certainly, with
regard to seizing every scrap of material
advantage, but hardly sensible in the usual
acceptation of the word. However, she
promised Lady Eleanor to carry out her
injunctions, and volunteered to write to
some house agents in London, explaining
Lady Eleanor's requirements, and impressing
upon them that the house in question must
be large, commodious, clean, airy, warranted
in a sanitary condition, and to be obtained at
a low and reasonable rate.

Mr. Highview consented easily enough to

his wife's demands; he had been thoroughly
bothered and wearied by the election, and
saddened by Luce's quiet ways and pale face.
He agreed that a change would be good for
everybody, and mentally hoped that in
town the women would give him a little
peace.

CHAPTER V.

It was some weeks after these events that
Lady Fenchurch was, one day, lying on lier
sofa and gazing listlessly out at the tender
green of the trees in the garden and park.
The air was soft and balmy, filled with the
gentle languor that seems to precede the
more violent heats of summer, and delicately
scented by the fragrant shrubs which only
lately had burst into the full beauty of their
blossom. It was the very day for a convalescent
— bright, but not dazzling ; quiet,
yet not enervating. Lady Fenchurch enjoyed
the weather in her languid fashion,
for she was a convalescent. The nervous
illness from which she had suffered since Sir
Hilary's death left her weak and unstrung ;
a trifle startled her, a rough word set her
heart beating. She was as weak as a child,

and nearly as gentle. All the impetuosity
and rebellion had been knocked, out of herby
pain and sleeplessness, and Miss Fen-church's
excellent, though somewhat prosaic
and commonplace, nursing earned her a full
debt of gratitude. It was so delicious to be
well again, to feel no pain, only a pleasing
exhaustion, to be surrounded by sweet scents
and agreeable sights, and to find nothing
expected of her. Miss Fenchurch relieved
her of all cares and troubles : drilled the
servants, and visited the smallest breach of
conduct so severely that the men seemed to
walk on velvet, and the maids to handle
cups and saucers as though they were wadding.
No banging doors disturbed the
silence, no crashing of crockery irritated the
nerves — all was silent, peaceful, and calm.
Evelyn said little, but her grateful eyes
reassured Miss Fenchurch as to her feelings.
The good old maid wiped away a furtive
tear on the first occasion that her pale and
feeble patient smiled, for the love and attention
that had once been her brother's due
she now transferred to his widow. Miss
Fenchurch was like a dog who attaches
himself to the quondam master of the house.

whoever he may be, and her days had been
passed uncomplainingly by Evelyn's bedside,
in a darkened chamber, for noise and
light equally displeased the morbidly sensitive
nerves of the sufferer. When the
mechanical jingling of her beloved knitting-needles
irritated Evelyn, Miss Fenchurch
uncomplainingly laid them aside for the first
time for forty years, and resigned herself to
the penance of inaction. It was, therefore,
with almost a mother's joy that the good
lady watched her charge's gradual recovery,
doubled the daily dose of wine, and increased
the luncheon from one cutlet to two, partaken
of with proportionate appetite. The
knitting-needles were resumed, though oftener
an amusing book was read aloud ; and
Miss Fenchurch so far relaxed her vigilance
as to permit herself a daily walk round the
kitchen-garden, and even, after strict injunctions
to the maid not to lose sight of her
mistress for one single instant, to sally down
to the farm and inquire why the butter was
not nearly as yellow as usual. During one
of these absences she had driven into West
Thorpe and ordered the prettiest and most
fashionable mourning possible, the very

VOL. III. F

mourning which had roused Lady Eleanor's
sarcasm, and in thus departing from her usual
contempt for dress Miss Fenchurch offered
a kind of sacrificial atonement for any sins
of deed and speech which might have annoyed
Evelyn. And she succeeded. Lady
Fenchurch was now meek and grateful,
and sincerely attached to her sister-in-law.
Gradually a new life returned to her, and
with it a new spirit. She lay for hours
motionless in her soft white tea-gown, her
beautiful black eyes, liquid with gentle
emotion, set wide open, thinking. Her brief
married life, Sir Hilary's rage, his suspicions,
his awfully sudden death, her own folly and
recklessness, appeared like a dream. She
was young, she was beautiful, she was free,
and she stretched eagerly all the tendrils of
her being towards life. It had become so
precious, so valuable, life alone without
conditions ; the mere breathing of the air,
the looking at the welcome sunshine as it
slowly passed from one side of the room to
the other, with ever varied effects of beauty,
from pearly dawn to rosy sunset; the vivid
tints of the tulips in the glasses on the table,
the red melting into yellow, and yet quite

distinct ; the crystalline purity and exquisite
scent of the narcissus, the drooping lily of
the valley hiding among the fresh green
leaves, delighted and enchanted her. She
felt no sorrow for Sir Hilary, no grief for
his loss; he had been a fraction, and none
too pleasant a fraction, of her former existence
; but in this new life of emotion and
sentiment he had no part. She supposed
she was rich, she supposed the old house
and the good furniture and the dainty
boudoir fittings were hers; she never thought
about it ; it seemed natural and right to her,
and she recked no more whence her many
comforts came, nor of the person who provided
her with the luxuries her caprice
desired, than does the child inquire whether
the scullery-maid's wages be paid, or its
father's rents come in regularly. Miss Fen-church
never told her. Miss Fenchurch, to
whom all the luxury and the riches belonged,
fed her and nursed her, and waited
upon her with the attention of a devoted
servant. The old maid could scarcely have
explained her own feelings. She required
something to pet, to manage, and provide
for. Evelyn, in her helplessness, was that

f2

something, and afforded scope for Miss
Fenchurch's love of housekeeping, and pride
in her good housewifely skill. She did not
care for riches in themselves ; her tastes were
too limited, her aspirations bounded by the
quiet home-life. But she could not abide
a speck of dust on the furniture, or a little
tarnish on the polished grates, or a silver
dish the less on the dinner-table. She would
have everything done, as she expressed it,
properly, and all these cares fully employed
her time. Miss Fenchurch was the man's
ideal woman par excellence ; she knitted
indefatigably, and made the ordering of
dinner an elaborate study. It teazed her,
too, that Evelyn remained perfectly indifferent
to the lightness of a souffle or the
golden browning of a fried sole, that in the
early days of her illness she declined the most
inviting dainties, and when she grew stronger,
with the return of a healthy appetite would
eat anything indifferently from a bit of fried
bacon to a slice of roast mutton ; but she
comforted herself by thinking that, though
unappreciated, the succulent dishes of her
cuisine were at least unapproachable. Miss
Fenchurch always drilled her cooks; they

began as the eldest girl in the school to
learn the duties of the scullery-maid, and
gradually worked their way upward to fat
and comfortable mistresses of the art of
cookery. To-day, profiting by the sunshine
and the brilliancy of the weather, she
had gone to the farm to give instructions
about the slaying of a sucking-pig, for the
roasting of which her cook was now famous,
and thus Evelyn lay alone on her sofa,
basking languidly, and enjoying the genial
warmth. She had reached that state of
convalescence most approaching childhood,
when the animal and sensorial powers far
exceed the intellectual. She enjoyed the
mere fact of existence, but she wanted
nothing beyond. Her thoughts were bounded
by a vague wondering if Miss Fenchurch
would be home to tea, and a gentle surmise
as to the ending of the last new novel that
lay beside her. The lovers had just been
parted sharply and unaccountably, as happens
in story-books, and she surmised with none
too eager an interest that they would come
together again in the third volume in satisfactory
fashion. As though the spring sunshine
had induced thoughts of love, and

with them the visible presence of a lover,
the door opened, and the servant inquired
in a low and studiously impressive tone,
whether her ladyship would receive Mr.
Carrol. Lady Fen church had as yet received
no visitors, and lying there in her
loose, cream-coloured robe, could not be
considered attired in orthodox widows'
mourning. The servant, with the quick
instinct of a lackey trained in good families,
perceived this, and only the urgent insistance
of the young man, and the furtive
sight of a piece of gold in his hand, induced
him to deliver the message. Evelyn blushed
deeply. She half rose and said, ^^ No ; I
can see no one'' Then, with the newly
awakened appetite for change and variety
and pleasing gossip, she altered her mind,
and said, '' Yes."

The servant, without moving a muscle of
his imperturbable countenance, withdrew,
and speedily admitted the visitor.

For an instant neither spoke. Evelyn
was oppressed with the recollection of past
events; her husband's anger and suspicion
suddenly rose vividly to her mind ; her hand
trembled, and her lips quivered. Dick,

sternly resolved on carrying out Luce's
wishes, came prepared to be cold and
matter-of-fact, but the vision of a beautiful
woman in cool white garments, when he
expected to see a tearful widow in the unbecoming
black which fashion has imposed
on them, lest even in hours of grief their
vanity should seize the upper hand, changed
the current of his thoughts, and turned indifference
into admiration. After a while
he recovered himself sufficiently to say :

^' You have been ill ? "

^^ Yes, did you not know? I have been
very ill."

^' Of course — the shock " and then

he paused, while she gave a slight shudder.

^^ Yes, it is horrid to be a widow. I hate
black."

'^ I see you do not wear it."

'^ But I shall be obliged to when I am
well. You, too, are in mourning," she said,
glancing at the band on his hat.

'^ Yes, my poor grandmother died at the
time of the election."

^' And now you are rich — and happy."
She said this listlessly. His happiness and

prosperity scarcely seemed to interest her.
Dick felt piqued. We think our own affairs
so all-important to others.

'^ Yes, I am rich and — and free."

'' You are going to be married ? "

^' No ; and this is why I came to see you
to-day, when, perhaps, you might think it
almost presumptuous in me to force my way
in."

^' I am glad to see you."

'' You are aware of your own sad position,
no doubt, and that emboldens me."

'' My position ? "

^^ It was not mv fault if circumstances
were against me ; if people talked and told
untruths, and if you are poor. I swear to
you. Lady Fenchurch, that I never for an
instant thought — ■ — "

^^You are speaking Greek to me. I
cannot understand'' She put up her hand
to her head wearily ; it was silly of her to
receive visitors; she was certainly n'^t strong
enough for the effort.

'' You don't know, then ? "

'^ Know what ? "

'^ Well " — he began to stammer, evidently
his action was premature — '^ about the will."

'^ Don't stammer, please — pray speak out
I hate mysteries."

'^ Have you not seen the will ? "

'' What will ? "

'' Sir Hilary's."

^' No — why should I? I told you my head
was not strong. I suppose it is like any
other will — he left all to me, I believe."

'^ You are mistaken — the entailed estates
go to a distant cousin, and the personalty
and jewels and a large income to "

'^ Me, of course," she said complacently.

^' To his sister''

'^ His sister ! Then what is mine ? "

^^ Nothing, absolutely nothing ; a pittance
of 400/. a year."

^^ How shameful ! " Evelyn had no practical
idea of the value of 400Z. a year; she
was absolutely ignorant as to whether one
could keep a carriage and horses on it, or
if it would provide a good cook, but she
did realise that such a sum meant comparative
poverty.

^^ It is shameful ; and then, do you see,
Evelyn'' he bent towards her, " people have
said cruel things of you, and — do you not
wish to hear ? "

'' Go on ! I can bear it all' she said,
paling exceedingly. '^ I suppose, if this is
so, I can bear it."

'^ And they have coupled our names together,
yours and mine, and so — and so I
came to say that I am at your service."

'^ Thank you, I dare say I can manage."

'^ But your character ? "

^' Who can say anything about it, and
what do I care ? "

'^ You are so poor, and people will not be
kind to you."

^ ^ Rachel will let me live with her, I can
stay here always."

^' This place is only hers for a year, after
that it goes away to the heir, and you will
be absolutely dependent upon her : 400/. a
year will scarcely keep you and your maid."

Evelyn stared blankly before her; why
had he come in on this bright spring day,
when she felt so contented and so happy, to
annoy and distress her, and shatter her
peace ?

^^ Dear, I am come to sav— had we not
better brave these things together? I am
rich, and with me by your side no one can
say anything. I wanted to make you understand

this soon, before you began to fret ;
and when your mourning is over— whenever
you like — we can be married." Dick would
not have spoken with the energy and generosity
he now showed had Evelyn been
one whit less beautiful or attractive, and had
he not felt in her presence a spark of the old
love revive. She was a charming and lovely
widow, and at any rate he need never be
ashamed of her appearance. She did not
speak ; he waited, but she did not speak ; and
lay against her cushions as white as the
gown she wore.

Presently two large tears oozed from her
eyes, and rolled slowly down her cheeks.

'^ Should you be unhappy with me,
Evelyn ? "

'^ Oh ! I don't know, it is all so dreadful;
why did I ever meet you ? you have brought
nothing but misery into my life."

.When a man has just offered his hand to
a woman in a fit of generosity, it is scarcely
pleasant to be thus received. Dick clutched
his hat and made as though he would go.

^' No, no, I did not mean it," she said
hurriedly, ^' of course I cannot mean it, only
you have made me so unhappy."

^' In a few months," he said, timidly
touching her hand with his fingers, ^^when
your mourning is over, we can go abroad a
little, and you will forget."

^' I suppose I shall," she answered with
an accent of indolent despair. ^' I dare say
you are right."

The wooing was certainly not very satisfactory
; Dick's success could scarcely be said
to lie in love, but Evelyn was beautiful, and
Luce had said it was his duty. Spite of all,
the thought of her, and of what she desired,
formed the motive power of his conduct.

'' Then it is settled, we are engaged."
She bowed her head, and he printed a
passionless kiss on her white forehead. ^^1
shalj^not call again, it is better not; I must
guard your reputation now, it is my care."

'^ Ah ! what does a woman not endure for
the sake of her reputation ? " said Evelyn
wearily, turning a little away from him.

*' I am not disagreeable to you surely ? "
he said in a tone of pained surprise, 'remember
you are quite free, you must please yourself."


^' Oh no, you are very kind, and I am not

well, and besides you know I cannot be gay,
I am in mourning."

'^ I quite understand ; you might write tome
occasionally and look upon me as your
friend, and if you wish to see me I will come,
but not otherwise ; we must be careful, only
now you know you are neither defenceless
nor dependent." He rose and lingered a
little as if he expected some warmer response,
but she only said, *^ Thank you. I will not
forget, and I will write to you — of course I
may tell Rachel ? "

'' Of course, but we had better keep it a
secret from everyone else, people would say
it was too soon."

'' Yes. Are you at Long Leam ? "

'' For a few days only. My uncle and
aunt are still there. What is a bachelor todo
in a big house by himself ? "

*' I can't imagine," she said indifferently.
Then, as the pause became embarrassing, he
bowed, and left the room. The strange
wooing was scarcely over when Miss Fen-church
returned brimful of news about the
sucking-pig.

'^ Such a beauty, my dear, and Mrs. Hodges
says it was the finest litter we have had this

year. I do hope you will have appetite
enough to eat it ; the cook's stuffing is always
good, and apples are still plentiful, though it
is late for them. You look pale ; now I daresay
you've never taken your quinine, I will
ring for it at once, and there's a dreadful
draught from that window, you should have
put on a shawl."

CHAPTER VI.

Bruce, when for an instant he allowed his
thoughts to stray away from the great work
which was now nearing something like completion
(the first volume being finished, and
the last proof-sheets just passing through the
press), sometimes thought of the strangely
pleasant time he had spent at Ilighview,
and of the pale girl with the large brown
eyes, in whose company he had passed many
hours. She was so different to her surroundings,
so still, and so introspective, qualities
which he had not hitherto found characteristic
of the fashionable world, that he often
wondered what her life was, and her feelings.
It sometimes occurred to him as singular
that she should have engaged herself to
Dick, but he rapidly dismissed this thought
with the reflection that no doubt girls in
her position were brought up to look upon

marriage as a purely business relation, and
the choice of a husband as a commercial
affair. Still it grated upon his feelings.
Luce had appeared to him so thoroughly-womanly,
so feminine in her words and
movements, so formed for a deep attachment,
even for passion, that he could not help
fancying she would suffer in a mariage de
convenance. The glimpse of idle life he had
caught at Highview scarcely impressed him
with a sense of pleasure ; fine dinners and a
show of gold plate wearied him, while the
beauty of their dress, and the sprightliness
of their manners, rather heightened the
effect of the vapidity of great people. In
the library however, neglected and undisturbed,
he had been very happy, very
happy also in his fireside talks with Luce.
For the first time in his life, he associated on
terms of familiar equality, aided by an
already acquired friendliness due to Dick's
praises, with a charming woman of a refined
and cultivated mind. The only two other
women he habitually saw, his landlady and
his own mother, could not be said to stand
in this kind of relation to him ; a mother,
whatever her peculiarities, is always one's

mother, and therefore sacred, and a landlady
of the gushing order is preferably kept at a
distance, therefore the free and gentle interchange
of sentiments and opinions he had
enjoyed with Luce, bore a doubly precious
meaning. Bruce scarcely realised it at the
time ; he fancied the sole privilege he
enjoyed at Highview was the run of the
library, and the unique opportunity of studying
some old fifteenth-century manuscripts,
black-letter type, and ^' I'Estoile's Journals
of Henry III. and Henry IV. " ; but when
he returned to his lonely lodging, his work,
and his brightly-burning, if somewhat unpleasantly
smelling, student's lamp, he
missed something — and only after days of
discomfort and uneasiness did he realise that
that something was a woman's face. Once
even he leant back in his chair, interrupting
a vivid description of Anglo-saxon manners
he was writing, to weave a day-dream.
The dream of a gentle voice by his side, a
sweet face at his elbow, ready to assist and
encourage ; overcoming difficulties with a
smile, and clearing away despondencies by a
laugh ; then when the work was finished,
and put away for the nonce, of a pair of

VOL. III. G

loving arms wrapped about his weary
shoulders, and of words of love murmured in
his ear. It was for this no doubt that he
had lived a life of solitude, endured long
hours of silent monotony, toiled and suffered
alone. He crossed his arms, and a smile
played about his mouth. Woman's love, the
crown and glory of life, the ideal beauty of
all things, the passage of an angel's wings
on earth ! People said that passion weakened
a man ; that to be strong it was necessary
to stand alone. He felt this as a fallacy:
union was strength, and love was nothing if
not a fusion of human lives. He pleased
himself occasionally with these musings.
The woman's face was always Luce, the
woman's voice always her soft contralto.
He had kept aloof so long from the ephemeral
and sensual passions that beset men, that he
was the veriest tyro in matters of love,
but for that very reason, perhaps, better
qualified to taste and appreciate. But,
though the woman of whom he dreamt bore
the presentment of the only girl he had
known well, yet he never for one single
instant thought of her as owning a personal
relation to him, even before he heard of her

engagement, and naturally afterwards such
a thing became impossible. He only dwelt
upon her image as the poet and the artist
revels in picture-galleries or among splendid
works of sculpture, which do not belong to
him, in which he has no actual part, but yet
which he makes his own by right of
sympathy and aesthetic comprehension.
Immersed in his studies, he had heard nothing
of the High view establishment since
the election — indeed, had seen but little of
Luce at that time, and his surprise was only
equalled by his sympathy, when Dick
informed him of the abrupt termination to
his engagement.

'^ She wished you to be free, she gave you
no reason," he said, meditatively, scratching
with his pen on the blotting-paper.

'' Yes, she gave a reason — a woman's
reason." Dick stretched himself on the
narrow sofa, his heels in the air. said I
had compromised somebody else ; and so
must marry that somebody. A stupid
solution, if ever there was one."

'' Miss Windermere is usually reasonable."


'^ So I always thought ; she was firm

g2

enough, obstinate enough, in all conscience,
but she was certainly not reasonable."

^' It is strange."

'' She never thought of my feelings,
though she pretended to love me ; it is no
more pleasant for a man than for a woman
to be jilted, one feels such a fool. Besides,
what am I to do in a big house ))y myself ?
and I could not stand those Vincent."

^^ But in giving sou your freedom I
suppose she thought she was acting rightly."

'' I suppose she did. Women are so extraordinary."


''' You will carry out her wishes ? "

Deuce take me if I want to carry out
anybody's wishes but my own, and look
round a little. I've been so worried."

^' And what will become of Miss Windermere
? "

'^ How can I tell? She'll marry some
other fellow, I suppose ; or become an old
maid. It's her own doing entirely."

Bruce thought for a moment, leaning his
head on his hand. Presently he said :

'^ Yes, women are extraordinary. It
passes my comprehension how, in life, one
seems to come quite close to people, to

breathe the same air, to think the same
thoughts, to partake of their very nature,
and then to drift away apart as if one had
never met, or seen, or loved, the one person
who, for a short time, has been everything
in the world to one, dearer and closer than
heart had ever conceived. Once you loved
Lady Fen church in this fashion."

^^But she deceived me — she led me on
and treated me like a boy— no man can stand
that."

'' And then came Miss Windermere."
'^ I never pretended to love her."
*sand you meant to marry, not loving?
What a fatal, what a terrible mistake."

^' I don't know ; she suited me very well,
gie understood me fairly, she did not rub
me up or reproach me — no man of spirit can
stand reproaches — she gave me my cone
very nicely too."

'^ Would you be surprised to learn that in
doing her duty, as she believed it, she did
violence to her own feelings ; no woman
parts quietly with a man unless she loves
him still ; one does not parley with a ferocious
beast, but one lets a dove flutter and
fly and return to the hand that fed it."

'^ Thank you for the simile, a ferocious
wild beast. I've certainly no luck with
women."

Possibly the women believe they have
no luck with you."

'' Luce was a fool. I should have made
a remarkably kind husband''

sand run after every other pretty woman
that came in your way."

'^ Don't imagine that the privilege of
friendship gives you the right to lecture.
I object to personal observations."

'^ Seriously, Dick, I'm sorry for this contretemps
, but Miss Windermere is an intelligent
girl. If she advised you to give her up
and to return to your old love it was no
doubt because she saw the wisdom of the
proceeding."

Dick bit his moustache.

'^ I declare I think I shall marry no one;
and yet to live in a big house by oneself
is horrid ; I hate solitude and coming home to
find one's fire out and not a soul to speak to."

^^ Oh, you had much better marry' said
Bruce, from among his folios. "And a
widow may possibly be equal to restraining
your impetuosity."

'^ I wish you wouldn't talk like that —
impetuosity indeed — but it's early days to
talk of a widow. She is scarcely out of her
first mourning."

''A widow's mourning is like a girl's coyness
— put on to allure."

^M declare you are growing cynical."
'^ The effect of these barbaric old Anglo-saxons
upon a weary brain, I suppose. And
so you don't regret Miss Windermere? "
Regret ! I'm thoroughly disgusted."
^' But you're not breaking your heart ? "
^^ Breaking my heart, no. I very nearly
did that once."

'^ And you've bought your experience —
come, you see you're getting on — in your
next love affair you won't move a muscle.
Practice makes perfect."

'^ You are intolerable. I shall go out."
^'Do. Smoke a cigarette, chew a toothpick,
and go to lunch with some pretty little
girl ; by tea-time you will have forgotten
Miss Windermere's very existence, and be
quite ready for another affair."

Dick disdained to answer, clapped his
hat on his head, and left the room, slamming

the door. Bruce buried his face in his hands
and heaved something like a sigh,

'^ He does not regret her; a girl who is far
too good for him, who is breaking her own
heart while she tries to heal another's ; a girl
who has feeling and sense, and modesty and
a heart — and all this thrown away on a
fatuous idiot who talks of marrying because
he is lonely in a big house — lonely indeed! —
he can drink, and smoke, and play billiards,
and what will she do ? I can see her with
her soft brown eyes full of tears, and her
voice like a summer wind, telling him not
to think of her — Ah ! I have no patience, the
idiots, the idiots there are, and I myself am
the greatest idiot of all. What is it to me ?
Se will marry the widow, and they will have
plenty of money, and give dinners, and
bring up a large family of sportsmen and
dancing, flirting women, and she will find
someone else to her taste, a coronet perhaps,
or some great squire, and one day I shall see
her face at the opera, with a sweet little
child by her side, or meet her driving calm
and unruffled in the Park, and neither he
nor she will ever remember." He clenched
his hands angrily, and his pale cheek grew

paler. His friends, the few he cared to see,
said he worked too much ; his long fingers
grew transparent, one could see the veins
through them, and he stooped more, and his
cheeks grew haggard. A pretty fellow he
to think of women and to dream of love. He
said to himself angrily that he didn't dream
of love, but that as a philosopher he had a
perfect right to note and classify the various
phases of human folly. There was a girl
now, cultivated, modest, gentle, high-minded,
giving up the man she loved (Bruce made a
shrewd guess at the state of her feelings) for
an idea of honour which few men would
have heeded. There was honour then in
women, they were not all '^ at heart a rake,"
not all mercenary and worldly in her rank
of life. The study of a woman's heart was
as much a study as any other —it represented
a type and had a decided ethical purpose.
How much of the individual could be traced
to the inherited prejudices of progenitors,
how much to habit, how much to education,
and what was left of the individual when all
these various influences were removed and
discarded ? Would the consciousness of
right-doing support her in her sacrifice, or

would her woman's feebleness and yearning
for affection cause her to suffer ? Which
would suffer most, she in her trampling
down of natural feeling for an impossible
ideal, he in his future disillusion ? Bruce
tried to argue out these thoughts like a
metaphysical problem, he endeavoured to
frame them in abstract form, and all the
while he felt that the girl was right, far
more right than he had ever conceived
possible. He turned with assiduous ardour
to his notes, his authorities, his manuscripts,
and tried to drown his newly awakened
interest in the present by an increased
absorption in the past; but the black-letter
swam before his eyes, the Anglo-saxon
flowed into modern English ; the old dry
bones clothed themselves in flesh and blood,
the ancient forms and expressions changed
into modern commonplace, and always a
girl's voice disturbed his labours and a girl's
eyes looked through the crabbed writing of
the musty papers. '^ I am ill," he said to
himself, rising abruptly; 'Hoo much learning
hath made thee mad. I must buy a bicycle
and join the ranks of happy shop-boys
careering on a Saturday half-holiday into

the country. It is the spring coming on, my
room is stifling, and there is a thrush singing
in the tree outside my window."

Dick did not call again for some time and
Bruce was glad of it. He did not wish to
hear more of his friend's love affairs, they
were annoying and interrupting to a man
engaged in a great work. Dick's sphere and
his were not the same. He had always held
it as a mistake for people to try and lift
themselves out of the class in which they
were born ; he was one of the people, he was
proud of it, the dominion of the intelligence
was well understood to be greater than the
power of wealth and rank. He could not
imagine any one priding himself on birth,
for birth is an accident, while merit is a
claim. He should claim his due some day,
but it would not be in idle and fashionable
society.

CHAPTER Ella

few days later, Bruce was walking down
one of the tolerably quiet streets leading
out of Oxford Street. He had been to fetch
a book from the London Library, and was
returning to his lodgings to digest it at his
leisure. Absorbed in thought of the intellectual
treat in store for him, he strode along,
as was his wont, with head bent down, and
meditative eyes fixed on the ground. Suddenly
a smart victoria with a pair of splashing
horses, and a couple of supercilious, well-dressed
servants on the box, pulled up beside
the pavement. Startled, he lifted his eyes,
and saw Lady Eleanor, smiling and well-dressed,
beckoning to him, and Luce by her
side. At first he thought it a mistake. So
fashionable a lady could have nothing to say

to a poor student, shabbily dressed, and
carrying a book under his arm. He knew his
position, he did not mean to transgress it ; a
business visit in company of the man he was
coaching in political matters constituted no
title to social intimacy, when all the conditions
were reversed. He paused, and
glanced round to observe if there were no one
else in sight, for whom the greeting was
designed. No, only a young dressmaker
hurrying along with a parcel, and two
working-men carrying tools, were in sight.
Lady Eleanor waved her hand again, and
presently the powdered footman approached,
and said her ladyship wished to speak with
him. Bruce advanced to the carriage.

** Really Mr. Bruce," said her ladyship in
her most affable manner, '' we have had so
much trouble to attract your attention I
positively thought you did not wish to
acknowledge us."

Bruce bowed. '' Your ladyship could
scarcely believe that, but I was in doubt
whether your greeting was intended forme."


'^ Of course ; we nodded, and waved our
hands violently, didn't we Luce ? not that

you ever do anything violently, you're too
indifferent ; " this in an undertone, which
however Bruce, whose faculties were quickened,
heard distinctly. He thought Luce
paler than ever, and there were certainly
dark rings under her eyes, which told of pain
or sleeplessness, but she gave him one of
her sweetest and most encouraging smiles.
After that, he prepared to listen attentively
to Lady Eleanor's garrulousness.

^'We have been in town some time ; you
must come and see us ; Eaton Square you
know. I always like a square because it is
quiet and one can breathe. I suppose you
are in town ? "

'' I am always in town."

Then we shall expect you. Sunday is
the best time to find us in ; every other day
there is something going on, and now there's
Buckingham on Saturday. I am really tired
to death of all the whirl and the tea-parties.
These afternoons with music are most
tedious ; but what can one do ? One must
behave like every one else, or one is soon
left behind."

'' It must be fatiguing." Bruce spoke to
Lady Eleanor, but he looked steadfastly at

Luce, who sat there so quiet and silent, a
kind of impassive veiled prophetess in the
volatile rattle and business of her fashionable
aunt.

'fatiguing? I should think so — it's
simply killing. Do you ever go to parties?"

Never."

*' Never ? Fancy living in London without
going to parties ; one might as well be
buried in the ruins of Pompeii, and see
skeletons and petrified bread all round one.
Then there's art, too, one owes so much to
that — the Grosvenor, and the Academy, and
the Watercolour Institute. I go to all the
private views, and all the first nights at the
theatre, and I attend sales of china and old
prints and pictures. I'm a great collector,

you know " Here Lady Eleanor paused

for breath.

'' I remember your ladyship had a number
of beautiful things at High view Castle."

^' I should think so. I have quite as good
china as the Rothschild, and I'm always
picking up bargains. Now, only the other
day "

And does Miss Windermere enjoy all
this gaiety very much ? '* said Bruce, un-courteously

interrupting Lady Eleanor's effusion.
His question immediately set her off
on another subject, and she answered for
her niece.

*' It's her first season, you know. Oh,
yes, all girls like going out, though Luce is
very quiet about everything; but she enjoys
it, don't you, Luce ? "

^' Very much, aunt," answered Luce
gently, with a droop of her eyelids.

'^ I imagine a season in London is something
like a man's first campaign ; it brings
out all the qualities and capacities of his
nature."

It brings out every one's temper. You
wouldn't believe what a trial servants are
now, especially in the season, when one requires
such attention."

'' Of course," said Bruce, absently watching
Luce's little gloved hands which moved
nervously.

*' By-the-bye," said Lady Eleanor, with
that easy adaptability to change which is
the characteristic of fashionable society,
shave you seen anything of your friend
Mr. Carrol ? We have not set eyes on him
lately ; how is he, do you know ? Immersed

in politics, I suppose ? I wonder if he is
going to vote for woman suffrage."

Luce blushed, a rosy red, she could not
help it. Bruce's eyes seemed to look her
through and through, and to note each varying
emotion of her poor little heart. He
discreetly removed his gaze from her now,
however ; he hated to see the child blush and
involuntarily reveal her sorrow and her suffering.
Lady Eleanor saw that he was not
attending to her discourse, and became impatient.
She always liked to be first in
every man's consideration.

^* Have you seen Mr. Carrol ? " she asked,
tartly.

Bruce, suddenly recalled to reason, blurted
out an incoherent answer, that Dick was in
town, he believed, and very busy with the
House, but that he didn't exactly know what
he was doing.

^^ Very well, then, don't forget your
promise ; come and see us soon, and tell us
about him — on Sunday, you know." She
signed to the servant to drive on, and Luce
moved her lips as if to say farewell, but no
sound escaped them.

sand that girl loved him," Bruce mute

III. H

tered to himself, as he stood on the pavement
watching the carriage drive off ; then
he shifted his book to the other arm and
walked away. The lodgings seemed suffer
and dingier than ever when he returned.
Mrs, Flinks and her smiles and ogles, and
even her boxes of stocks and mignonette in
the window, emitting a fragrant odour, in
which the widow's soul delighted, vexed and
irritated him.

He climbed to his lonely room and threw
himself on the sofa. ^' Shall I visit them ?"
he thought, and then the sense of equality,
which lies dormant in the breast of every
Englishman, rose up within him, and he said,
*' Yes — why not — I am their equal in brains,
in knowledge, in capacity'' But he was
not their equal in riches and position, and
he was too wise not to know this, and to feel
how heavily the want of these things handicapped
him. Notwithstanding, after a few
days he decided to avail himself of Lady
Eleanor's invitation and to call in Eaton
Square on the following Sunday. Lady
Eleanor herself, very properly, cared nothing
about the penniless student (if people were
born poor it was their misfortune, she could

not be expected to redress the inequalities of
fortune), but she still fondly hoped for
Dick's return, and she believed that in
attracting Bruce to her house she was cultivating
a bond of union between her and
the recreant lover. Bruce was certain to
talk to Dick of his visit (probably he seldom
had a chance of calling on titled ladies living
in Eaton Square), might kindle by his enthusiastic
descriptions the dwindling flame
of love ; might create a desire in Dick to see
again the girl he had so nearly married. All
this in the flash of inspiration passed through
Lady Eleanor's brain, when she stopped the
carriage to speak to Bruce, a condescension
she would not otherwise have been guilty
of, and she determined to be extremely
gracious to the student and to encourage his
visits ; arguing, that with so unworldly and
inexperienced a person it would not be difficult
to obtain some influence, and to mould
him to her wishes.

Bruce had taken extra pains with his
toilet on the occasion of this visit ; lank and
ungraceful he could not help appearing, but
his long white hands with the filbert-shaped
nails, his quiet, refined manner, and high 



intelligent forehead, procured for him, at least,
a certain amount of distinction. He was a
man you could not help noticing, and, except
perhaps to some very young and silly girl,
he would prove more interesting than the
cloud of ordinary masters, with their chokingly
tight collars and groom-like habiliments.
Lady Eleanor smiled graciously
upon him when he entered her stately ,
set out with all the bric-a-brac she
was insatiable in buying, but after a word
or two waved him off with vague amiability,
while she addressed some other more elegantly
attired guest. Bruce drifted away a
little into a corner, rather helplessly wondering
what he should do next, when Luce's
soft voice desired him to come and sit beside
her. She made one of a knot of girls and
men talking and laughing, amongst whom
Bruce recognised Maud Hardfast and Arthur
Sterneyy. Maud greeted him in her bold,
hearty fashion.

^^ Fancy you here, Mr. Bruce. I thought
you never stirred from your books."

*' Not often, I confess, but on Sunday
even I, require a little relaxation."

^^ It is too hot to exert oneself," sighed

Maud, leaning gracefully back in her chair
(ill natured people declared she studied everyone
of these idle, careless poses before the
looking-glass). ''I declare it's the hottest
June I ever remember."

'^ I delight in warm feathers' said Luce.

^' I shouldn't think those wretched men
who have to sit up all night in the House
appreciate it much," put in Maud, viciously.
I declare, when one comes home from a
ball, tired out, and sees that light burning,
and remembers that those poor creatures are
still at it, squabbling over a cattle disease
bill, or sparring with a tiresome government
official, and obliged to sit there all the time
whether they like it or not, it gives one the
shudders. I am so glad I am not a man,
and especially not an M.P., aren't you Mr.
Bruce ? "

^* Well, you see, I am not a fair judge. I
am a man, though not an M.P."

'^ Of course, that is what I meant. And
how is your friend Dick Carrol ? I always
promised him I would go and hear his first
speech in the House, and, of course, I never
did," she said, turning round with a laugh
to attract Arthur Sterneyy's approbation.

'' I believe Carrol is doing very well, and
takes a great interest in politics, but I have
not seen him lately."

^^ Not seen him lately?" asked Maud,
curiously ; '' have you two quarrelled, then ?
You used to be like a pair of twins, or
Orestes and Places, those two absurd
friends one reads about in the schoolroom."

Luce leant a little forward listening.

Bruce said in a grave voice, *' I do not
generally quarrel, but when one is very busy
one has less time to spare for the claims of
friendship. Cannot you imagine two people
meeting only rarely, and yet taking up their
intimacy exactly at the point they left off
whenever they do meet?"

^* No, I can't. I forget people if I don't
see them constantly Most women do — I
think."

Is that your opinion, Miss Windermere
? " said Bruce, turning to her with a
suppressed light in his eye.

'^ I don't know, I am sure. I think it is
difficult to forget."

there's one thing, duns never forget,"
laughed Arthur Sterneyy ; '' my bootmaker
sends me in his bill every month, and I

regularly file it. I assure you I am most
business-like."

*^ But you are very extravagant," said
Maud, looking at him tenderly through her
half-closed lids.

'^ I hate a screw," said the young guardsman.
'' I know fellows who would rather buy
a sixpenny button-hole than go without.
I'm quite different ; the best of everything is
good enough for me, and I never wear anything
but a gardenia or a clove carnation ;
everything else is only fit for cads."

*^ I wonder what a man's flower-bill comes
to, and his cigars, at the end of the year ! "
mused Maud ; ^^ T expect it would pay for a
good many of our dresses."

^^ Do you ever wear sixpenny flowers ? "
asked Sterneyy of Bruce, who was listening
with a smile of amusement.

'' Never ! " responded the latter. '^ I can't
bear anything of inferior quality; if I
haven't a gardenia I go without''

^' Quite right," said the guardsman, on
whom the implied sarcasm was totally
wasted.

Lady Eleanor now approached. '' Mrs.
Straightly wants us to go down to Eton on

the 4th of June'' she said to Maud; *what
do you think — can we manage it ? "

Oh, pray do," urged Mrs. Straightly, a
smartly dressed matron with unwarrantably
golden hair. " I promised poor little Willie,
and I can't go alone. This is his first year
at Eton, you know."

'' Eton is going to the dogs," murmured
Arthur Stern ey, sententiously ; ^^ it isn't the
same place at all, ever since all the rich snobs
and their sons have gone there, and they've
done away with fighting and caning ; they
want some of the good stand-up fights they
used to have; the boys ain't half plucky, and
the masters are always putting it down —
make 'em into a lot of milk-sops if they go on;
as if it wasn't natural to boys to fight and get
black eyes; they enjoy it, and a good licking
does 'em a world of good occasionally."

^^ I'm glad I'm not a boy," shuddered
Maud.

'' Oh, you'd like it if you were at school."

''^ What a lovely style of work basket that
is of yours. Lady Eleanor!" pursued Mrs.
Straightly, dropping the subject of Eton
boys; ^^ something quite new, I am sure, and
so French.*^

'^ Yes, I flatter myself it is pretty," said
her hostess, turning the basket round that it
might be admired on all sides; madame
Mousseline got it for me."

^* Ah, then, I was right ; I thought it was
French."

The combination of barbaric splendour
with a homely article intended for homely
purposes might have been French, but was
certainly incongruous ; but to some minds a
thing, however ugly, if unusual, is pleasing,
and the highest form of praise that can be
given seems to be '^ so French." A book, ora
dress, or a play, or a person, or a sentiment,
all are equally applicable ; to modern
ears it has the sound of a word which
highly delighted our grandmothers, '' vastly
pretty." In mincing style and tightly drawn
back skirt a lady now says ''so French!"
where in pelisse and tippet she would have
formerly murmured with a curtsey, ''Ah,
how vastly pretty," 'sir, I am vastly
obliged."

Mrs. Straightly presently moved away,
accompanied by Lady Eleanor, whose dignified
manner of receiving, highly gratified
those who were not so sure of their own

dignity. Maud commenced whispering behind
her fan with Arthur Sterneyy, and
Bruce was left almost alone beside Luce.

'^ Did I hear you say you had seen
nothing of Mr. Carrol ? " she asked, tremulously.


'' Nothing."

'^ I should like to know " she began,

and then stopped abruptly.

'' Can I find out anything for you ? I am
at your service," he said, in a grave, resonant
voice. Luce liked his voice. In
nothing, perhaps, is character and education
more noticeable than in that. No educated
person leaves out his h's, or speaks
with a broad and vulgar accent, and yet
individuality is revealed in a marvellous
degree by the tones of the voice. Bruce
spoke like a thinker, in somewhat slow and
measured accents, and yet with a lilt and a
nice sense of gradation that proved he had
been accustomed to say things worth listening
to, and not merely to fritter away an
idle hour in small-talk.

'^ Don't you think you ought to see Mr.
Carrol ? " said Luce presently.

'^ Why? For my sake or for his ? "

^^ For his ; you are such a friend."
'^ As long as I was of service to him he
could count upon me, but now he is happy ;
he is fortunate and rich, and has a career —
perhaps he would only deem me impertinent."


^* And do you think the fortunate do not
want friends quite as much as the unfortunate
? Ah, you are mistaken there."

^' The fortunate can always find friends ;
they do not need to seek them like the
unhappy."

'' It is sometimes difficult to define happiness,
and I am sure no one is so perfectly
hap23y as never to need a friend. I don't
think you appreciate Mr. Carrol as much as
you did."

"" Indeed, you are mistaken, but ''

'•' But what ? You look mysterious''
^^ It is not always advisable to say all that
one thinks."

*Luce remained silent ; she felt that it
would savour of forwardness if she discussed
Mr. Carrol's friendships any longer. After
all, what was he to her ? She had no more
right to offer even an opinion. She sighed.
^'And do you like this life?" Bruce

asked, emboldened by the sigh ; '^ does it
satisfy and please you ? "

*^ It is a good thing to see varieties of
life," she said ; '' girls know so little of real
life ; they never see it except through the
medium of expediency and social prejudice."

'^ And a roseate hue is perhaps as good a
one as any other to view objects through."

'' You used not to talk like that formerly;
you used to say that one ought to try and
find out the truth of things, and only see
them exactly as they were without reticence
or idealisation."

^' Did I ? And suppose I found I was
wrong."

'' Oh no ; it can never be wrong to seek
for the right ; just think, if there were no
real right, and one had sacrificed everything
for a shadow."

*^ That would indeed be unfortunate, but
it is not likely ; the scales would probably
not fall from one's eyes in that case."

'' And how is the book progressing?" said
Luce, changing the subject, which she felt
was likely to become personal.

^* Very well, thank you; but, strange to
say, 1 am getting a little tired of work''

'' You ? "

^' Yes, I. Did you think I was a nature-bred
slave and loved my chains ? "

*^ I thought you a man likely to do great
things."

** Thank you. Well, I suppose it is wrong
and weak, but sometimes I feel inclined to
throw away my manuscripts, my ink, and
my pen, and to go right away somewhere,
and lead a ruminating life under blue skies,
lie in a cowslip meadow, or some sweet,
quiet, lazy place."

*^ You are overworked''

^' Do you think so ; do you really think a
man ought never to sigh for relaxation, for
pleasure, for innocent pleasure, or do you
think I am constituted differently from other
men and am only a machine ? "

'^ I never thought that," she said, looking
distressed. Just then Maud rose and beofan
a prolonged leave-taking of Arthur Stern ey,
interspersed with joking recommendations
and laughing rejoinders, and allusions which
were incomprehensible to any but the initiated.
He rose also, and stood silently ina
stiff attitude, wondering whether he ought
to bring his visit to a close. This problem

was solved for him by Lady Eleanor, who,
released from her attendance on other guests,
beckoned him to her side and insisted on his
drinking a cup of scalding tea. This occupation
and Lady Eleanor's stream of talk
diverted his attention from Luce; and he
left the house dissatisfied with himself and
the interrupted conversation.

CHAPTER VIII.

Some days elapsed: Bruce did not return,
and nothing was heard of Dick. Maud, happily
engaged in a chaffy kind of flirtation
with Arthur Sterneyy, for whom the burlesque
actresses had temporarily lost their charm,
scarcely noticed Luce's preoccupation ; and
yet Luce was extremely preoccupied. Since
that day of the parting in the shrubbery
Dick had never written to her, she was
entirely ignorant of his doings, and uneasy
lest in cutting him loose from herself she
had sent him adrift into the world. If he
should not feel sufficiently bound in honour
to offer his hand to Lady Fenchurch, if
Lady Fenchurch herself were to refuse him,
if disgusted and fancy-free he were to plunge
into excesses and dissipation, would not the
consequences fall upon Luce ? He had assured

her of his intention to lead a quiet,
country gentleman's life, to retrench, and to
be charitable to his neighbours; he had
evinced sufficient inclination for her to be
easy on the score of his kindly treatment of
her, but she had ungratefully destroyed
all these good intentions, and thrown over
his budding virtues the cold frost of her own
withdrawal. She had meant well, truly, she
had believed herself to be acting rightly, but
that was not enough if it could be proved
that she had not acted rightly. The very
sensitiveness of Luce's conscience tormented
and robbed her of tranquillity and happiness.
It might be possible to imagine a condition
of contented serenity, on which the consciousness
of self-sacrifice should confer a
double lustre, a state of rapt spirituality,
where the spirit of the martyr left no space
for the pains of the body ; but to crawl
wearily through life, feeling one had sacrificed
one's own bliss quite unnecessarily for
purely abstract idea of duty, resulting only
in remote and unimportant consequences,
was neither comforting nor flattering to
the mind of a young girl, as anxious asher
neighbours to extract all that was pleasant

out of this weary journey on earth.
Luce was no saint, and she had none
of that impassioned fervour which keeps
some people from ever suspecting that their
own decisions can be wrong. She had hoped
to hear something reassuring from Bruce,
and to her additional annoyance it seemed
as though a breach had come between the
two friends. It was about this time, the
season being now well advanced, and the
lime-trees shedding a sweet fragrance over
the languid riders in Rotten Row, that Luce,
riding beside her uncle one day, caught sight
of Dick. He was looking remarkably welland
was mounted on a handsome horse.
Beside him was a lady, a young lady, and
on the other side an older man, evidently
her father. He immediately recognised
Luce and her uncle, smiled, and bowed pleasantly.
But he continued his placid ride
beside the young lady, and showed no inclination
to approach his ex-betrothed. Luce
coloured violently, but strove to conceal it,
hoping that a scarlet face might be placed
to the account of the broiling sun.

^^ Ah ! there's Carrol," remarked Mr.
High view, shaking his fist familiarly at him,

VOL. III. I

as is the wont of men when they recognise
an acquaintance. '^ It's the first time I've
seen him riding — a very good-looking chesnut,
too, shows some breeding ; he's fond of
horses ; I shouldn't wonder if he took the
hounds next year. He'd make a first-rate
master."

'' Yes' murmured Luce, anxious to say
something and appear unconcerned, but unable
to find a fitting remark.

'' He spoke in the House the other night,
and very properly, too, I am told."

^' What was the subject ? " ventured Luce,
tapping her horse nervously with her riding-whip.


'' It was a small affair, that pigeon shooting
business, got up by a lot of sentimentalists
; but I believe Dick spoke in a very
moderate and gentlemanly way."

•' Do you know who was the young lady
riding with him ?" asked Luce presently.

'' No, I don't. But I recognised the man
as a rich ironmaster, who is in the House,

Member for Oh, I forget the name,

somewhere in the Midlands."

'' And that was his daughter, I suppose ? "
^ '^ Probably. Shall we canter on ? If we

meet Dick again I'll ask him to luncheon,
that is to say, if you don't mind, my dear ? "

I don't mind," she said, feebly, and they
started off. But Dick never appeared again,
and Luce returned home with a bitter pain
at her heart. An ironmaster's daughter, a
rich girl, a pretty girl too, as far as she
could judge by the slight figure, and the
golden locks neatly coiled under the black
riding-hat. A spasm of jealousy shook her.
It was not for this she had surrendered him.
Not that he should play the butterfly, and
perhaps marry the first silly girl he happened
to meet.

Why had he not turned his horse's head
and spoken to her — just one word? He knew
her well enough to surmise how kindly she
would receive him. She had not reckoned on
the strength of a man's vanity, which causes
him to forgive an injury sooner than a slight.
She forgot that though her feelings towards
Dick were not changed, yet that his feelings
towards her could no longer be the same.
Even though he did not love her, he could
resent her withdrawing her promise, and
offering him advice.

And so she fretted herself nearly ill over

I 2

Dick's neglect, fancying, like the foolish girl
she was, that a man would remain her friend
whom she had refused as a lover. A man's
self-esteem is the last of all his passions to
die out. And while Dick rode with Miss
Denvil, as a pure pastime, thinking her a
jolly unaffected girl, and impressed with
the conviction that her father's champagne
was excellent, once she was out of his sight
he never bestowed an instant's further consideration
upon her. Luce, racked by unreasoning
acute jealousy, shed copious tears
over his fickleness, as she called it, and
passed a sleepless night. Oh, happy time of
youth, when a look or a word from one we
love has power to change the current of our
thoughts, to transport us from Hell into
Paradise, to cloud a brilliant sky, or make
the roses of happiness grow in the dull wintry
weather ! Happy torments, happy aches
and anguish, which the oldest of us would
not exchange for the dull disillusion and
stony unfeelingness of mature life ! These
transports, these anticipations, these disappointments,
these doubting and despairs,
are of the essence of love and youth, no
placid certitude can ever take their place.

Lady Eleanor, who had been informed of the
meeting in the park by Mr. Highview, rallied
Luce on her depression, and endeavoured by
taunts and ridicule to rouse her pride and
create regret.

^^ It is your conduct, my dear," she said,
as they swayed to and fro, in uncomfortable
position, in the string of carriages that
formed the approach to a popular ball, ^Hhat
has driven away young Carrol, and now I
hear he is always riding about with Miss
Denvil, a sensible girl ; she will not refuse
him, her father made his money in trade,
and she intends to marry well. Good
gracious ! what a jerk," as her jewelled head
was nearly propelled against Luce's shoulder ;
'^ this kind of thing is dreadful, it makes me
feel sick."

'^ You should not come for my sake, aunt''
replied Luce, earnestly; ^' you know I don't
care for balls."

^' Nonsense, child; it is my duty." Duty
or not, Lady Eleanor would sooner have
nodded and swayed in her carriage for a
full hour, as the trying prelude to a nights
dissipation, than have spent one single, quiet
evening at home.

^^ But as I said." proceeded Lady Eleanor
as soon as she had settled her coiffure '^ you
have entirely spoilt your own chances. I
suppose you are pleased, as it is your own
handiwork, and you think yourself remarkably
clever. For my part I can't conceive
anything more ridiculous than a girl handing
over her lover to another girl, who has
more money than herself, and thus forcing
him to do a mercenary action, which she
chooses to qualify by the name of sacrifice."

Luce bit her lips, This transcription of
her own wretched thoughts was bitter enough
in all conscience.

'^ Real love to my mind implies mutual
sacrifice. I never knew anybody who was
in love who did not desire some return for
her feelings. But you are a cold, hard girl,
I have always known it; you never cared forme,
and vet I have done everything to gain
your affections."

'' Oh, aunt. ! how can you say such cruel
things ?'' answered Luce, in much distress.

^' I wis! I I could say more cruel things,
and make you see your absurd conduct in a
true light. You think yourself a heroine,
your friends look upon you as a fool."

Luce winced. Had she not believed the
same thing herself in the solitude of her own
room and the perfect confidence of her
pillow ?

'^ What good will it do you to be laughed
at as an old maid, to grow shallower and
shallower — old maids always enjoy headaches,
and bad health — to live in cheap lodgings,
and go out to high tea in a cab, to keep a
frowsy maid of all work who steals the
sugar, and takes your writing-paper to indite
notes to her young man ? If that is the fate
you prefer, to being the wife of one of the
richest and handsomest young men in the
county, I think I can assure you, you have
every chance of attaining it."

A silent tear rolled down Luce's cheek.
She must plunge into society, she must
endeavour to forget. Much as she had
shrunk from crowds, and avoided assemblies,
so much the more now would she pursue
pleasure in hot haste. The best nun is she
who has a fault to expiate, they say ; the
best trifler, the most ardent devotee of
fashion, is the woman who tries to forget, to
drown sorrow in amusement. Luce dried
her tears, and contrived to make herself so

agreeable to her partners at the ball, that
Lady Eleanor regarded her with a smile of
approbation. Her animated manner, the
unusual colour in her cheek, her somewhat
reckless talk, transformed the quiet, almost
ordinary young person, whose smiles were
sparse, and whose interest was only given to
those worthy of attention, into a lively,
frivolous girL This was a change that
delighted Lady Eleanor, and she promised
herself to renew her sarcastic remarks, since
the result had already proved so satisfactory.

CHAPTER IX.

Dick meanwhile plunged into politics, as
Luce had done into pleasure. Lord Lytton
truly says, ^^ Who does not know what
active citizens our private misfortunes make
us." The mind must find something on
which to exercise its energies ; foiled in
love, a man naturally turns to ambition, and
Dick was slowly and painfully acquiring a
taste for the government of his country. It is
a matter for wonder how few of the excellent
young men, well born and well educated,
who seek election at the hands of their constituents,
really know or care much about
the serious problems that vex the modern
soul. A young man of fortune and expectations
takes a seat in the House of Commons
.IS he would a chair in Hyde Park, to pass
the time and gain a certain amount of

interest and amusement. He dallies with
Bills that affect the well-being of thousands
of citizens, or votes for or against an expedition
of war that must cost the lives of
hundreds of his fellow-men, with the agreeable
insouciance and perfect self-possession
that characterise a young gentleman sure of
himself and dressed by a fashionable tailor.
He votes because he has received a "" whip'
and he listens occasionally to a few speeches
which bore him and give him a headache.
To such the House of Commons is a lounge,
a more or less eclectic club, a place associated
rather with enmii than with duty, and yet a
creditable place enough, and one that every
man who has nothing to do, aspires to
enter. In this light Dick himself had long
regarded it, but, in spite of all, his friend
Bruce's influence made itself felt as earnest
convictions invariably must, and the superfluous
vitality which had hitherto bubbled
over in passion and flirtation was now devoted
to understanding something of the difficulties
and glories of statesmanship. He had not
sought out Bruce lately for the reason that
swayed most of his actions, because at this
moment he did not need him. Every one

was very friendly to him in the House, and
the fact that for the first time the county had
been won by a Liberal, and that Liberal a
young man, redounded to his credit and
gained him a certain amount of esteem
among the older members. Besides which,
Bruce's face reminded him of certain passages
in his life which he was anxious to
consign to oblivion : — his boyishly passionate
adoration of Lady Fenchurch heightened by
the hopelessness of the adoration ; his rapid
cooling off the instant his beloved was in
trouble, and by her trouble caused him
annoyance and persecution ; his equally
sudden engagement to Luce, and her inexplicable
refusal to marry him, coupled with
his latest shamefaced resolution to return
to his allegiance to Lady Fenchurch, while
hating the semi-humiliation it involved; —
these were causes sufficient to make any man
avoid a friend cognisant of his variability
and inclined to act the part of Mentor.
Dick was certainly sobered. The events
of the past year had not been without their
effect : he no longer sought the society of
racing-men or gamblers. He retired earlier
to bed, except when kept up into the small

hours by the exigencies of a division, and
he seldom went to balls. He saw Lady Fen-church
occasionally; she was now restored
to her usual health, and in her widow's weeds
looked remarkably handsome. Miss Fen-church,
to whom everything had been confided,
was their constant companion, and
her absorption in the inevitable knitting
made her a harmless and complaisant
chaperon. The lovers had not much to say
to one another ; burnt-out love is difficult to
delight, and Lady Fenchurch was usually,
occupied with her dress, while Dick, abstractedly
smoking beside her, mused on the
chances of the political future. They spent
most of their time in the garden. Dick
would run down for a day and remark the
progress of the blossoms, or the brilliant
aspect of the flower-beds, and these things
afforded an item of conversation. It was
very pleasant sitting under the big limes in
an easy rocking-chair, with a profusion
of cushions and rugs, and the sweet soft air,
more sweet in contrast to the smoky, stifling
atmosphere of London, and the hot oppressiveness
of the House of Commons, played
round his forehead and ;wafted across the

scent of the neighbouring hatfield. If anyone
just a year before had foretold this
scene, placid in its quiet, and perfect in its
repose, Dick must have hailed the prospect
with joy, and yet now in the society of this
beautiful woman, soon to be his wife, he
occasionally yawned, and fell into long
spells of moody silence, which seemed a
strange contradiction to the apparent blissfulness
of his lot. Pleasant as was the
beautiful solitude, the soothing hum of the
bee, busily dipping into the bosoms of the
honeyed flowers, the gentle rustling of the
branches, or the far-off sounds of country
life, he was invariably restless and anxious
to get back to town, until one day Evelyn
observed it and rallied him on his new love
for work.

'' Surely it is much nicer here than in
town. You can't like hot dinners in stifling
rooms and an atmosphere that seems to weigh
like a stone on your head ? "

*^lt is much pleasant here," he said,
leaning back with his arms behind his head,
and sending up whiffs of pale smoke into
testily air.

'' Then what do you want ? why are you
so restless ? "

She looked at him a little anxiously ; no
woman likes to feel that the poor of her
charms is waning. The Circles of real life
never wish Ulysses to escape.

'' Am I restless ? perhaps it is the heat."
^' But it is hotter in London. JVi5uld you
like some iced drink ? I will send*«u^ to the
house at once." ^^^^

** I am not a bit thirsty." ^y^
*' Then," she said, a litj^^^^^arily,
^' perhaps you have seen som^^cJne you like
better than me ? That Miss Denvil you told
me you were riding with, who is she ? ''

'' The daughter of a man I met in the
House ; a very nice little girl."

'^ And rich, I suppose ? You don't want
money now, Dick."

a ]s[q — thank goodness ! "
'' And this girl, what is she like ? "
'^I am sure I don't know. I can't
describe her ; she is like everyone else."

^'Blue eyes, and golden hair, and a painfully
small waist."

«' Exactly; you have described her."

^^I am sure 1 should not like her. Pushing

and forward too, I suppose ; plays tennis
like a man, and smokes cigarettes after
dinner."

Yes — don't you smoke ? " he said lazily.
'^ How aggravating you are! You know
I never smoke."

"It is very unladylike, my dear," put
in Miss Fenchurch, who had dropped a stitch
in her knitting.

^' I think I should like to go to London
for a day or two'' said Evelyn, suddenly,
after a pause.

Dick looked surprised, and Miss Fenchurch
murmured : —

^^No, my dear, really, should you?
Hadn't we better wait till the autumn ? "

'certainly not! I wish to go now. Have
you any objection ? "

'' No — ~" DicK looked a little puzzled
'' but isn't it rather hot ? "

'' I dare say I shall not mind. The truth
is you have infected me with your unrest,
and I feel I cannot stand another long dull
month in the country. I should lose my
appetite and get hipped."

^^My dear, you should take atonic, and
send for the doctor if you don't feel well."

'' I am quite well, thank you ; but you
know it is the fashion of the present day.
No one can stay long in the same place."

^^ I could live here for ever," said the old
maid, casting a critical glance around.

Lady Fenchurch had her way, and a few
days later was settled with her aunt in a
private hotel. Dick took their rooms for
them, and had them filled with flowers, at
whose beauty Miss Fenchurch exclaimed with
delight. Perhaps had she known that they
were indebted for them to the taste of the
valet, who had bought them in Covent
Garden, she might not have been so touched
at the attention.

every gallant of the young man," said
Miss Fenchurch, sniffing at a rose, 'every
gallant. I must say he has most pleasing
manners."

'flowers are common enough in London,"
said her sister-in-law ; '' one can buy them
round the corner, anywhere."

Evelyn had a shrewd suspicion that Dick
had not given himself as much trouble as the
old lady supposed.

'^ But the flowers are beautiful, just your

favourites, Evelyn, and many a man would
not have thought of that."

Dick called in the evening and asked if
the ladies were comfortable, and proposed
the opera for the following night.

^^The opera!" said Miss Fenchurch, ^^you
forget we are in mourning ; indeed, I really
never could imagine why Evelyn so persistently
wished to come to London, for of
course we can go nowhere — a widow attracts
so much attention."

'^ I will take a box, and Lady Fenchurch
can sit behind the curtain''

'^ Oh, yes, I can sit behind the curtain,
and I know so few people. There can be no .
objection," urged Evelyn.

80 Miss Fenchurch was overruled, and
the box at the opera was taken. Lady
Fenchurch enjoyed music, and especially
operatic music, and sat in her corner
honestly delighted. One of her fine arms
rested on the cushion of the box, and the
other lay in her lap. Her handsome
features were lit up by a pleased smile,
and certainly Miss Fenchurch might have
been excused for thinking she would attract
attention, with her marble-white skin en-vol.

III. K

chanced by the sable draperies and her large
eyes, whose lids drooped a little in languid
pleasure. Dick, to whom the opera was not
such a novelty, sat at the back of the box,
but occasionally leant forward to take a look
round the house, or to converse with Miss
Fenchurch, who asked innumerable questions
in ecstacies of astonishment and curiosity.
In one of the critical glances he thus threw
around, Dick thought he perceived some
familiar faces in the box opposite. They
were indeed Lady Eleanor with Luce, accompanied
by a couple of young men. As Dick
leant forward he caught Luce's eyes fixed on
him with a pained expression. It was the first
time he had met her since their engagement,
with the exception of that one cursory
glimpse in the Park ; and he felt sorely
tempted to go round and speak to her. • But
an instant's reflection taught him that this
would be almost an insult. He could not goto
her straight from Lady Fenchurch's side,
and the fact of his being with a young lady
who remained carefully concealed behind a
curtain was in itself enough to raise her suspicions.
How pale and sad she looked,
scarcely ever smiling, or seeming to care

what went on upon the stage, and only paying
casual attention to the remarks of the
young man beside her. Dick wondered if
she had suffered. Perhaps the only real and
genuinely unselfish interest ever aroused in
him by a woman, Luce had evoked. He could
not help comparing her to other girls, and
remarking that the balance was entirely in her
favour. How he wished he could recall the
past, that Lady Fenchurch had been rich
and independent of him, so that he might
have married his little, gentle Luce, and
lived quietly with her in the country. He
could imagine what a tender, loving wife she
would have made, and that she would have
indulged in none of the caprices with which
other woman wearied him.

^' What are you looking at so persistently''
presently asked Lady Fenchurch, for the
curtain had fallen upon the second act, and
she was free to notice Dick's preoccupied
silence and abstracted gaze.

nothing — I mean it is a very full house;
how do you like the opera ? "

'^ Very much; do you see a great many
people you know here to-night ? '^

A few''

k2

'^ I want to look too — there, I can just
catch a bird's-eye view through the curtain ;
ah, now I see what attracted you so — Lady
Eleanor Highview and her niece. Well, she
is a plain girl."

She dropped the curtain, and resumed her
former position. '^ Do you know, Dick, I
think you are a dreadful flirt ? 1 used to be
jealous of your cousin Maud, and now I
believe I ought to be jealous of that plain
girl."

^' That plain girl jilted me."

'^ Then your engagement to me is no
great compliment, I am sure I am very much
obliged." She put her bouquet up to her
lips, and pretended to be annoyed.

^^ I should not have been free had she not
jilted me."

Didn't she care about you then ? "

I don't know''

^'You do know, why do you try to deceive
me f

'let us talk of something else. Does not
my future life belong to you ? "

'^ Hem ! well, I suppose it does ; and you
don't wish me to ask inconvenient questions.
It must be a bore to be taken up as Miss

Windermere was, in a moment of pique, and
then dropped again a little later."

'•I don't wish to discuss Miss Windermere''

^^ But she interests me; she is a study ;
she has good eyes ; but she does not look
lively ; she would have been a dull companion
to pass the rest of your days with."

remiss Windermere is very clever."

•' Oh ! I suppose a kind of blue ; reads
Greek and goes in for the higher mathematics.
Now, Dick, I am quite sure that is
not at all in your line. You had far rather
a woman were frivolous like me — confess I
amuse you."

^' Yes ! but one cannot always expect to
be amused."

'• Dear me, I thought you men only lived
for amusements, and left all the boring, tiresome
things to us women. We always wear
more rigid mourning and stay at home, while
you dine out."

'^ What do you propose doing tomorrow?"
said Dick, desirous to interrupt her flow of
satirical talk. He could see Luce where he
sat, and he fancied she had grown even
paler.

I must go to see the pictures and the

shops. I haven't been in London for such a
long time, and there are quantities of things
I am curious about."

^' I should like to visit Kendal Green''
said Miss Fenchurch, demurely ; ^^ I am told
it is so beautifully kept."

^' Oh ! fancy being anxious to visit a
churchyard; I hate to think of those
things," said Evelyn, quickly.

'sone ought always to think of one's latter
end," replied Miss Fenchurch piously.

Dick hurried ois the ladies a little before
the end, in order to avoid the crush, but there
had been some mistake about the carriage,
and they were forced to wait a few moments
in the hall. While thus engaged Lady
Eleanor and her party swept down the stairs
and confronted them.

There was no escape. Lady Eleanor
bowed stiffly when she saw who was Dick's
companion, and Luce gave him a piteous
glance. Never, perhaps, had he felt himself
in such a painful and constrained position.
Lady Fenchurch appealed to him affectedly
as though to prove that he was without mistake
her cavalier, and in a few moments-they
were once more alone.

'' The deuce take women," thought Dick,
angrily; ^^why do they want to come to
London ? If it had not been for this unlucky
rencontre, no one would have suspected my
relations with Evelyn Fenchurch, and now
it will be all over London, and Luce must
think I have shown indecent haste in thuB
braving public opinion."

CHAPTER X.

Luce seldom sang now. She had never been
a public performer ; even in the smallest of
coteries, her timidity absolved her from all
necessity of giving her friends the more or
less appreciated pleasure of after-dinner
music, but she had loved to play and sing to
Granny, and in her moods of excitement
or depression she found relief in song. But
with the desire and the anticipation of
happiness her voice left her, and she frequently
sat dumb and silent before the keyboard,
feeling unable to play a note, or to
lift her voice above a whisper. In certain
crises of emotion, music helps and comforts
us, and proves a kind of safety-valve, but
when we are crushed and miserable beyond
the power of endurance, the very sound of
music seems to irritate our pain. Nevertheless,

the day after her vision of Dick at the
opera, she sat down to the piano in the
drawing-room, and feebly shoved her hands
over the keys. She had not the power to
sing, but her fingers strayed almost without
sense of volition into a little piece of Bach's,
Granny was accustomed to play in the quiet
evenings at Long Leam. It began with a
quick gavotte in the minor mode, which
Granny executed with surprising delicacy
and precision, and contained a second movement,
a kind of pastoral, of which Luce was
particularly fond. Leaning back as she
listened she could fancy the peasants dancing
on the village green, and hear the
shepherd's pipe; an air of freshness and
candour seemed to surround and a flavour
of antiquated simplicity enchant her. The
music spoke of homely love, of simple truth
and constancy, and often as she heard the
familiar sounds they always produced on
her the same effect, that of pleasurable
content and quaint illusion. Now as her
fingers strayed she forgot for the moment
her weariness and her surroundings, and
saw again Granny sitting at the piano in
her prim upright pose, the pose habitual to

ladies of her time, dressed in her handsome
lilac brocade and pretty lace cap ; her
listened hands lightly moving over the
keys, and her kind head nodding in time to
the dance measure. Behind her was the
arched alcove with the brown-backed books
heaped together in tawny mustiness, and the
jars of priceless old china which garnished
the corners. The faded chintz covers of the
spindle-legged, uncomfortable chairs and
settees looked ghostly in the dim light, and
when Granny stopped playing there was a
hush of tangible silence around — the echoes
of the past alone haunted the room. Absorbed
in a- recollection which seemed so
clear and so real to her, Luce turned with a
start and a rude awakening from the dream
of the past she had delicately built up to a
sense of the present, when the door of the
drawing-room opened, and instead of the
old lady, and' her music, and the shadows
and stillness of Long Leam, there presented
itself to her gaze the red satin furniture and
hot-house flowers of Lady Eleanor's ,
and close beside her Bruce bowing,
hat in hand, and murmuring some confused

sentences, of which she scarcely gathered
the import.

^^Ah, it is you, Mr. Bruce," she said,
regaining her composure by an effort ;
'^ Lady Eleanor is out driving, and ''

*sand you were playing — do I disturb
you ? Shall I go ? "

'^No, you can stay' she said indifferently,
executing a rapid scale on the instrument.
'^ I daresay my aunt will soon return,
if you can wait."

'^ I can wait," said the young man, slowly
fidgeting a little nearer to Luce, who, without
rising from the music-stool, had offered
him her hand. '^ The fact is, I am glad weare
alone ; I wanted to talk to you quietly."

*^ One can never be quiet in London,"
said Luce, wearily ; '' there is such a perpetual
whirl, and oh how sick one gets of it
all ! those endless hot balls and tedious
parties, and the pretences and show which
all mean nothing. People inviting those
they don't care about, because it looks welland
leaving out the old true friends who are
not smart or not fashionable enough to do
them honour."

'' You would prefer to be at High view ? "

Oh, yes, indeed." Luce rose and walked
feverishly up and down. '^ Just think how
beautiful the roses must be just now ; that
La France, with its grand pink blossom,
and General Jacqueminot, with leaves like
velvet, and an exquisite aroma, and the
golden petals of the Rev door; you remember
how luxuriously it grew over the
trelliswork at the entrance to the rosary?"

'' I remember you showed me the plant,
but the roses were over when I first saw
High view."

^' How glorious the summer in the country
is ; and to think that men's perverted tastes
lead them to shut themselves up in a stifling
town just when our English homes, and even
this capricious English climate, are beautiful
to perfection."

*' Yes, it is strange. I know but little of
the country, I have lived so much among
m}" books ; and yet I feel — High view taught
me to feel — its beneficial influence."

^ ' You should come to us in the summer ;
but we shall scarcely be there this year till
half the flowers are over," she added, with
a sigh.

"' Lady Eleanor wishes you to remain in

town ? " he asked, seating himself as he did
so.

'^ Yes ; she says it is a part of my education.
I wish my education were finished."

^^ It is like college for young men — an
initiation into life."

*^ Is this life ? It seems to me more like
a kind of stupor of the mind, in which only
a few of the senses are alive."

'^ You will no doubt emerge from the
ordeal scatheless ; the very fact that your
heart is not in it will prevent any harm
accruing to you. I should be very sorry if
harm came to you." His voice shook slightly.
Luce looked up surprised.
• '^ You need not be anxious," she said,
quietly.

^^ But I am anxious," he answered quickly.
"You are suffering, I am sure; just now,
when I surprised you, there were tears in
your eyes."

I was thinking of Granny — of old Mrs.
Carrol," she said, simply ; '^ I miss her very
much''

'* Of course you do, Miss Windermere ;
it may seem strange, you may think me
presumptuous ; but you have been so much

in my thoughts lately, if I could help you —
if I "

Thank you," she said, gratefully; ^^ the
sympathy of a friend is always acceptable ;
and we were friends at Highview, were we
not ? "

^^It has occurred to me," he continued
hastily, ^'that I am answerable for your
unhappiness, that it was through my persuasion
that Dick Carrol became a candidate
for West Thorpe, and consequently an inmate
of your house ; and that whatever annoyances
befell you are owing to me."

'^ I have no annoyances," she answered,
rather coldly. He had no right on the score
of kindness, to try and worm out her secrets.

^' Now I have offended you. 1 have little
knowledge of society. I am ignorant of the
terms in which I ought to express myself ;
but, believe me, I would do anything, anything
to serve you'' he said, earnestly.

'' I am sure of it."

If she had doubted for one instant, the
honest ring of Bruce's voice would have reassured
her. And the interest he showed
her she knew was not scattered broadcast.
He was reserved and shy, and as a rule

avoided ladies' society. Consequently his
attention was the more flattering, for in his
own sphere of literature and study he was
already well known and almost famous ; she
knew that also.

'^ When I see you sad it makes me miserable.
Can I not help you— do you wish to
see Dick ? "

'^ No, no." She shook her head passionately.


'^ He has not behaved ill, surely. I pray

of you confide in me — believe me "

' I have nothing to confide. Dick never
behaved ill to me ; we parted — because it
was best so."

'^ And you are breaking your heart." He
jumped up and restlessly moved about the
room. '^ Is there nothing to be done ? I
am your slave, your knight, command meuse
me."

^' Indeed, Mr. Bruce, I need nothing. A
girl must not sit down helplessly with her
hands folded because she has not got just
the bit of happiness she fancied — that would
be weak and foolish. I try not to be weak."
'^ And is all your life to be passed thus ? "
'' No ; I shall get better and stronger, and

perhaps I shall forget," lie said, smiling
through her tears. ^' I feel as if I could
speak to you and treat you as my friend —
as if you understood "

'' Yes, I understand." And as he looked
at the little fragile figure before him with
the waxen complexion and the large eyes,
that seemed with their brilliancy to efface
the small oval face, he thought, '^ provided
it does not kill her." The mental life was so
great, the physical power so small.

'^ But there are moments when I feel as if
I had been mistaken, as if I had presumptuously
overruled the decrees of Providence,
and sought to control fate with my own
weak hands; and then I am devoured by
tortures of remorse, of despair, and doubt."

'* Trust yourself, trust your own instincts,
they are right."

Oh, you comfort me — it is something to
be able to speak out without incurring blame
or ridicule."

*' Will you let me be your friend? — we are
drawn together by a strange loneliness, you
are alone, so am I, and we both feel the
need of communion."

'^ But you are so clever, you have your

books ; only yesterday I heard that your
History had created a sensation."

*^ The critics have been kind, but, even if
it had been different, their opinion would
not have altered my convictions ; where one
writes only to please, one does no good
work — it must grow solely from knowledge
and love. My work has been everything tome
hitherto."

'Mndnow ?"

Now — I must not say it. I must not
breathe it — you will be angry."

'' Are we not to be friends ? Why should
I be angry ? "

Then I will tell you. Your image comes
between me and my work "

'^ The image of your friend'' she said,
with emphasis, '' should rather help than
hinder work."

But 1 dream, too — I dream of a time
when that friend might be more to me. I
think words that cannot be said, I fancy,
I build castles, fairy castles, and sometimes
I whisper to myself that I love "

Luce moved away a little, with a gesture
of disapproval.

Don't move ; I may talk freely, mayn't

VOL. III. L

I ? These are only dreams, you know, and
dreams deceive; but 1 think, if I had the
chance, how much I could love, and worship
and wo7*k for the gentle object of my dreams."

'' They are dreams, as you say, and they
can never be fulfilled."

'' Never ? Oh, I know I am presumptuous,
but as the humblest and most devoted
of your servants, as the truest and most faithful
of friends, as one who would count it
honour to serve you, and a smile his highest
reward — could you never permit me to love
you thus ? "

'^ Mr. Bruce," said Luce, very seriously,
*' all you have said is, no doubt, most flattering,
and I daresay I am different to other
girls, I ought to feel honoured by your preference,
of which, indeed, 1 am not worthy ;
but it is my intention never to marry. I
cannot marry without love — and I do not
love — any one."

' Luce, you are trying to blind yourself.
If you cannot let me be your slave, (I ask
nothing, nothing in return) I will be content
to wait and hope, if I may only be near
you and hear your dear voice ; but, if you
will not allow my devotion, at least, do not

kill yourself, do not ruin your whole life fora
shadow. Let me go to Dick, he does not
know how much you care, his heart is excellent,
and let me tell him that you love
him still."

^' You must do nothing of the sort," she
said, catching at his hand as he turned to go ;
^' I do not wish for his love — now."

'' You are sublimely unselfish, but you are
foolish, too," he said, very sadly.

Perhaps — are not all women foolish ? —
but yet they know their own heart best."

'^ Ah yes, who could attempt to read a
woman's heart? Not I for one."

^' You will forget all that has passed
between us to-day, will you not, Mr. Bruce?
Don't think any more of me; I shall be quite
happy, or, if you must think of me, remember
I am content; but plunge as before into
study and research — some day you will be
famous, and I shall be so glad ! "

^'And I shall have lost you. Oh, Luce,
my perfect Luce, let me try and make you
happy, I know so well all you want ; trample
on me, despise me — do what you like — but
let me love you."

^^ Just now I told you that my heart was

l2

dead, that I can never, never love again,"
she said, with gentle reproof ; his earnestness
raised her tender pity even while it
wearied her.

^^I know you said so, but all life cannot
pass thus."

'^ Perhaps life will not be long for me ; at
any rate, its duration is not in our own
hands."

If I had only met you first would you
have loved me then ? you look so fragile, and
yet you are so tenaciously strong in your
affections."

^' I am tired," she said, leaning her head
back against the chair ; ^' is not the heat
oppressive ? "

'^ And I have tired you, you, to whom I
would fain spare the smallest fatigue ; how
selfish I am ! Luce — I am still your friend,
am I not ? you will not retract your word,
you will tell me all that concerns you, you
will keep back nothing — it will be all I shall
have to live for now," he added, sadly.

'^ And your book ? "

'^ My book of course, but nothing, nothing
can take your place'' He walked absently
towards the door, then, remembering he had

not said farewell, he hurried back to where
Luce sat pale and motionless in her chair,
took one of her small white hands, kissed it
passionately, stroking and kissing it with
the broken words a mother uses over her
child. Then, suddenly, without stopping to
see if his passion had moved her, he turned
and left the room. The whole thing had
been so sudden, such a surprise, that Luce
sat on for some moments where he had left
her, stunned, the touch of his kisses seeming
to burn her hand. The passion of love in
cold, self-centred men is sometimes terrible
in its intensity when once the outer chilly
crust is pierced.

^'Poor fellow'' she thought, moaning to
herself. '' Poor fellow, if I could only have
loved him ; if I could but have made him
happy ; but I can never forget Dick. His
memory seems to have dried up every other
emotion within me. Ah, if I could — if I
could "

CHAPTER XI.

Bruce walked straight home after leaving-lady
Eleanor's house. The distance was
long, and the heat intense ; but he felt
neither heat nor fatigue. He passed through
the little garden with a listless step, noticing
neither the scarlet peonies forming so bright
a bit of colour, nor the carnations Mrs.
Flinks had spent all the afternoon in tying
up carefully. He went straight upstairs to
the little sitting-room, in which we have
already seen him so often, sat down beside
the table on which the big folios were
heaped, laid his arms on the table and his
head on his arms, and sobbed, sobbed, for the -
first time since he left school, like a- child.
He had been a poor weak fool. What need
had he to insult her with his love, when he
only meant to show his sympathies and to

comfort her ? If it had been conic sections
now, or the early life of the Anglo-saxons,
he would have known how to speak ; he
could have conversed rationally ; but love —
what did he know of love or girls ? Ah ! he
was an egregious ass, and it served him all
well right.

Meanwhile this summer's day evidently
encouraged inflammatory tendencies. Mrs.
Flinks was shelling peas in the back kitchen,
and as she did so talking to Eves.

'eyes, you may laugh, but I'm tired of
this desolate life; that affair with the young
lawyer came to nothing; he wouldn't propose
till he knew the amount of my fortune, •
and I was too sly for him ; I wasn't going tolet
my gentleman laye everything so easy
as that''

'^ I am sure you're right comfortable
here," said Eves, with arms as usual immersed
in a tub of hot water up to the
elbows. 'there's that Mr. Bruce, he gives
no trouble at all, and pays his rent as
regular as clockwork."

'^ Yes," sighed the widow, dropping the
peas into the basin with a resigned tic-tac.

^' I used to think he was a fish, now I think
he's a calf, tormented by calf-love."

'flor, Mum, and whatever put that into
your head ? "

'^ Well, he goes out more, and he's getting
particular about his dress. His coat really
looks as if it were made by a tailor instead
of by some old woman who had cut it out of
a spare piece of alpaca, and sewed it together
again at the seams."

'well, I never, you do surprise me," said
Eves, making a perfect blanc-mange of soapsuds,
for it was washing-day, and she was
getting up " a few little things for her
mistress.

'' It's simmering, Eves ; I'm sure it's
simmering."

"What, Mum, the saucepan? It's all
right."

''• No, that man's love ; he's beginning to
feel — is more wide-awake now ; he looks at
me as he goes out as if I were a human
being, and not a tortoise ; once even, when I
shook my cap-ribbons in his face pretending
to stoop down and unlock the door, he took
an end of the ribbon in his hand, and as he

stood there said quite sheepish-like, ^' What
a pretty colour ! do you call this pink ? "

'^ You don't say so," said Eves, not even
interrupting her splashing to show surprise.

*^ Now you know, Eves, a quiet husband
would suit me in many ways : firstly, because
men are more constant when they
don't see much company, and then they're
more economical, and besides they're always
to your hand if you want them."

^^ Surely, Mum, he ain't proposed yet?"

^' No ; it's easy to see he's a gentleman ;
he's always so polite, though shy in his
manner, and — Eves, it's Leap Year ! "

'^ Why, Mum, you're never going to propose
to him ? "

^' Hold your tongue, you silly old woman;
there's more ways than one of proposing.
You can wheedle and coax a man into most
things."

'^ Well, I declare ; I should like my husband
to propose to me, and not feel I had todo
the man's work for him''

'' Eves, an idea has struck me. Here,
take this basin, I'm going upstairs to change
my gown, and I want you to help me "

Eves did as she was bid, and drew her

long red arms out of the soapsuds regretfully.


^' Such a beautiful lather as it was, too,"
she said, as she followed ner mistress upstairs.


A quarter of an hour later Mrs. Flinks
knocked at Bruce's door.

become in'' he said, quietly, for even
when disturbed he was patient.

The landlady walked in ; she was nicely
dressed in a fashionably-made summer dress,
and wore a new and bewitching cap.

Ah ! you are alone, Mr. Bruce, and dear
me, those Venetian blinds not drawn down ;
how careless of Eves I I must give her a
good scolding." She looked coquettishly
over her shoulder as she proceeded to unfasten
the blinds.

'^ Pray do not scold her," he said, without
moving, apparently engrossed in a folio, ^' I
opened them myself."

^^ Then shall I do them up again?" she
asked, letting them fall with a bang.

'^No, no; you can leave them, the sun is
nearly down."

'' To be sure it is." *

Mrs. Flinks pulled up the blinds, and.

despairing of attractions her lodger's attention
otherwise, came back and stood beside
him.

*' And to think you're always poring oyer
those big books. You're looking pale, Mr.
Bruce ; it isn't good to work in this hot
weather ; you should take a rest."

He shook his head. ^^ I can't afford the
time."

^^ Stuff! why one volume of that history
is out, and I'm sure it's stodgy enough to
satisfy the public for a bit."

^' I am afraid you are not an admirer of
my works, Mrs. Flanks''

'' Indeed, sir, I am ; I learnt history and
geography and the use of the globes at
school, but 1 don't think we had quite such
fat books to read out of. You'll excuse me,
sir, but this weather is a little trying."

Herewith the widow drew a chair to the
table, and Bruce, who could not bear to be
rude to the humblest woman, was forced to
endure her proximity. She looked round
the room.

^^ Aren't you dull here sometimes all
alone ? You don't go out as much as some
gentlemen."

^' I cannot work except alone."

"And do you never plai//'^^ she asked,
with a seductive roll of her eye.

'^ I am afraid I am uncomfortably
serious."

^' No, no, not uncomfortable, not at all.
For my part, I prefer a man with some
stamina."

'indeed."

Bruce hoped she would soon come to the
point to which she was leading up, and then
depart ; he fancied, perhaps, she had come
to consult him on some money trouble, or
about an investment.

'^ I don't think that friend of yours, Mr.
Dick, has any stamina ; he's too fond of
throwing about shillings and half-crowns to
hansom cabman."

He is rich, and I am not."

'swell, riches are not everything, though
of course they do count for a great deal. I
have some little savings of my own, too; it's
right to save, don't you think, Mr. Bruce ? "

'' Certainly."

'^ And whoever married me need not take
me quite penniless."

^' Are you thinking of marrying then,
Mrs. Flinks ? "

^* It is lonely, sir, for a widow — very
lonely — and the heart feels its own solitude."


'^ It is not good for man to be alone," said
Bruce, under his breath. " I suppose that
applies even more to women."

^' Of course, sir, and you, too, must be
lonely."

Bruce made a deprecatory movement.

^'Not but what marriage is a lottery, only
when people are quiet and orderly and know
their own mind there is some security. Ita
great thing, too, for a man to have a profession,
and a decent one. I suppose writing
is a very nice profession, brings you in a
good deal and doesn't require much outlay,
no plant or machinery, or offices, and no
regular hours necessary."

Well, I should scarcely call literature a
paying concern, and it certainly means a
great deal of work," said Bruce, with a smile.

Indeed ! " Mrs. Flinks looked a little
disappointed. " But yoa only want pen,
ink, and paper, and a table. People must

be very poor indeed, when they haven't got
that."

You have forgotten two other requisites,
brains and perseverance*'

'' Brains — of course, you must be intelligent,
but, then, every business requires
brains ; you wouldn't believe how wearing it
is to be a landlady ; and perseverance —
where should I be if I didn't drudge away
day after day ? "

And you succeed, too, Mrs. Flinks — you
say you have saved money*'

A little, a ygyj little, but it's uphill
work." She leant her arms on the table,
and pulled out her pocket handkerchief with
a flourish and a considerable amount of
sniffling.

*' Are you in trouble, Mrs. Flinks ?" asked
Bruce, fairly puzzled at the widow's manoeuvres.


No, sir, not exactly, but '' here she

sniffed again, "I want a friend; what is
a poor weak woman without a friend ?
May I take your hand — it is easier to speak
so, and if you— can't you guess, sir, what I
feel ? — brought up as I was to better things,

and now reduced to let lodgings — ah sir,
you're a man, you must have a heart."

^' No, DO ! " exclaimed Bruce, drawing
away his hand, ''I have no heart'' He
thought that at last he guessed her meaning ;
he noticed with alarm the new cap, the
diamond ring, her best, a Cape diamond set
in massive gold, she wore on her finger ; her
appeal to his heart. No, no : was this, indeed,
the satire on his sentimentality of the
afternoon ? He was being paid out in his own
coin, and the very thought of it disgusted
him. Mrs Flinks sobbed more gently. Her
ample bosom heaved in slow and decreasing
movement under her summer dress. She
clutched at her pocket-handkerchief nervously,
and leant towards Bruce, as if she
expected him to offer her his shoulder for
support. In such an attitude, an attitude
that a genteel young man would gladly avail
himself of when in company with a nice-looking
woman, it would have been easy to
murmur endearing words, which need not be
very coherent or very grammatical, but
which would serve their purpose and clench
the affair. Presently, like drops of cold
water falling on a heated surface, she heard

Bruce's voice saying, in a suspiciously frigid
tone,

^'I am afraid you are not well, my dear
madam — shall I call Eves ? "

Oh dear, no," the widow quickly withdrew
her handkerchief from her face, '^ I am
quite well, but a little flustered ; I'm of a
nervous temperament. Dear pa always used
to say it was the sign of a most refined and
delicate organisation — dear papa loved refinement,
although he was a ship's captain,
and — dear me, Mr. Bruce, where are you
going :

'' To fetch you a glass of cold water,
madam."

Oh, pray, pray don't leave the room, I
cannot stand solitude, often I wish — I wish
you would let me come and sit beside you
in the evening. I could bring my work and
sit as still as a ghost, even the scratching of
your pen is better than nothing — and then
I could make you some tea — I have some
my late husband gave me, it cost twenty
shillings a pound, and it has a wonderful
flavour "

'' Why, Mrs. Flinks, what would people
say if you came and sat in my room."

'^ I don't care what people say," she cried,
throwing him a suggestive flash from her
dark eyes ; '^ but," dropping her eyes again,
'^ I should be very happy''

Bruce stood aghast. He could not put the
woman out by the shoulders, and how could
he persuade her to leave the room ? ^^My
good woman "

"Don't good woman me; listen, Mr. Bruce,
I'm young, and I'm considered good-looking,
and I'm saving, as I've told you, and it's
Leap Year — now, will you take me ? "

'' Take you ? "

^' Don't you understand — bless the man
where are his wits ? — will you have me for
your wedded wife, to have and to hold ? I'll
mend your socks, and look after your clothes,
and sit quiet when you're busy, and keep
the inkstand filled — and we shall neither of
us feel lonely — eh, what do you say —
wouldn't it be a nice thing for both of us ? "

^^ A very nice thing, no doubt, but entirely
out of the question."

'why, pray why," she said, waxing
angry and red in the face, " ain't my house
good enough for you, when you ink every
blessed bit of furniture you come across, and

VOL. III. M

I — with a piano and prints in my sitting-room,
and a green moreen sofa, as good as
new — and don't think I'm uneducated, I was
in Paris and learnt French and went to the
Louvre, and know how to put on a bonnet
with the best of 'em, mincing, short-sighted,
painted madams — out of the question, indeed
! "

'^ Listen, Mrs. Flinks," said Bruce, in his
gravest manner, ^' it is always a mistake
when people try to reverse their proper positions.
You are my landlady, I am your
lodger — do not let us alter circumstances.
I have been very comfortable here, and I
think you have no fault to find with me ;
allow matters to remain just as they are,
and I promise you never to revert to this
little episode again."

Mrs. Flinks sat dumb with rage and disappointment.
Presently she said with a
pout, '' I don't think you are a gentleman;
at least — are you engaged ? "

^' No, indeed, 1 assure you I am not''

'' Then you are not a. gentleman, to lead
a poor woman on to show the state of her
heart and her feelings, and to expose her
weakness, and then turn round on her like

a steel spring, and say, ^ Shut up, you're only
my landlady.' "

' I don't think I spoke quite so rudely as
that."

'^ I daresay you wrapped it up a bit more
in your long words, and your fine language,
but the upshot was the same, it meant, ' You
be off and don't trouble me any more.' "

^^ Well, we will not disputes he went upto
the fire-place, where reigned a cascade of
coloured shavings of paper, supposed to add
beauty to the blackness of the grate, and
leant against the mantel-piece, over which
hung a fly-blown glass, '^ but don't you
think perhaps I am right, and that my
advice was good ? "

*^ I think you're a " she stopped, choking
with anger in search of an epithet ^ ^ a
mean scribbler — a fish — there "

He stood calmly, a sad smile flickering
over his countenance. There was an irony
about the persistency and impotent wrath
of this woman that reminded him of his own
hopeless love. After all, allowing for the difference
of satin chairs and hot-house flowers,
and greasy reps, and second-rate prints, and
cheap muslin curtains, human nature was

M 2

the same in both cases. Moths singeing
their wings in the flames, aspiring to a distant
and unattainable star. He could not
hard or cruel to the poor little woman; the
pity for her was mixed with his own self-contempt.
He, the strong wise man who
had dipped deep into the well of philosophy,
and drank of the cup of learning, had been
foolish and blind, and this silly creature in
her finery, and with her meretricious charms,
was no worse.

He spoke kindly, '' Mrs. Minks, let us befriends
; I am very sorry if I misunderstood
you — if as you say I led you on — you must
forgive a student who is not versed in the
ways of the world."

you're knowing enough," she muttered,
to get yourself out of a scrape any how.
You're not so soft as I thought; perhaps
after all you're a good riddance."

*' If it comforts you to think so I shall not
be angry, but believe me I should not like
to hurt any woman's feelings."

A lady, sir, I'm a lady, though I do let
lodgings. Woman's feelings indeed ! I
suppose you think you're speaking to your
washerwoman ? "

*^ I beg your pardon, Mrs. Flinks, I scarcely
know how to speak''

'^ Well, I think you've spoken enough.
There, I'm going, I've passed as unpleasant
an afternoon as ever I passed in my life. I
only hope when you propose to a young
lady she'll treat you as you've treated me
woman indeed, I declare ! "

Therewith Mrs. Flinks gathered herself up,
shook her castings and her bangles warningly
in Bruce's face as he held open the
door for her to pass out, and in a storm of
frowns, pouts, angry glances and flashes from
the brilliant black eyes, departed.

'^ Well I never, Eves'' she said, as she
sailed into the kitchen in all her finery,
^•' Bruce is a fish after all."

'' What has he done now, mum ? "

^^ Done ? don't ask me, don't speak of him,
and Eves — I feel so faint. I should like a
relish with my tea ; could you, could you get
me some nice fresh shrimps ? "

CHAPTER XII.

Immediately ah by the unpleasant meeting at
the theatre Dick urged Lady Fenchurch to
return home. She had visited the Academy,
he argued, and seen all the exhibitions, and
been to the opera, and now it was time to
leave London. With much regret Evelyn
yielded to his entreaties ; she had never
passed more than a few days in London,
and it seemed to her that in the bustle and
whirl of the gay city lay unknown possibilities
of new excitement. However, Miss
Fenchurch supported Dick's urgent entreaties
and Evelyn allowed herself to be overruled.
When they reached Oakdene the country
was looking its loveliest. The green of the
spreading trees still retained its tender and
delicate hue, the cottage gardens formed a
blaze of pure white lilies, roses, and climbing

honeysuckle, each hedge was a thing of
beauty crowned with trailing wreaths of
clematis and winding tendrils of convolvulus.
As the carriage turned from the
dusty road into the lodge-gates, and drove
up the shady avenue, Evelyn herself heaved
a breath of relief to be once more in the cool
sweet air.

"It is a very pretty place," Dick said
reflectively, looking round at the park.

^^I wonder if its next owner will appreciate
it as he should, it is only mine for a year,
you know," said Miss Fen church, with a
sigh.

^' Is the man young?" asked Evelyn.

'' I don't know, I am sure. I think not.
A middle-aged man with a family, I believe,
but such a distant cousin, we have no
interest in him."

Lady Fenchurch was silent. A middle-aged
man with a family sounded hopeless.
If it had been different, if he had been free
and young, well, she was only marrying
Dick as a kind of provision for her future.
She could not live poor and friendless after
having been mistress of Oakdene. She stole
a look at Dick. His brow was seamed by

lines she had never before noticed ; he looked
worried and certainly older ; he was gentle
to her, anxious for her welfare, but she could
not conceal from herself that sometimes he
seemed bored and sad.

^^ Here we are," said Miss Fenchurch,
joyfully, '^ and there is Puggy, and what
fine flowers the gardener has brought ! — how
do yoa do. Biggs, and Mrs. Holden ? " this
to the butler and housekeeper, who waited
respectfully on the stone steps to receive
them, while the gardener, retraced and
hatless, stood by the pedestal vases holding
a large bouquet of hothouse flowers in his
hand. Miss Fenchurch was honestly pleased
to be home again ; she was like a mushroom
grown in a meadow, she could take root nowhere
but at home, and the acute pang it
caused her even to think of the time when
she must leave Oakdene to the tender mercies
of a new owner, would scarcely have been
guessed from her usually sedate and indifferent
manner.

Lady Fenchurch stepped leisurely out of
the carriage (she was not so vert glad to be
home), and the servants received Dick with
the implied courtesy and respect due to one

who was the future husband of their lady.
Servants are quick at surmises, and they had
long ago guessed the relations in which
Dick and Evelyn stood to each other. In
the library was a table with the tea-tray
upon it, and a goodly pile of crimson strawberries
set among green leaves heaped on a
dish. Lady Fen church began to nibble at
them directly, plunging her white fingers
into the rosy mass. Miss Fenchurch attacked
a bundle of letters and business communications,
and Dick went to the window and
looked out. Before him stretched the lawn
and the flower-beds, one brilliant sheet of
colour, but he was not thinking of them, his
mind had conjured up a vision which
annoyed while it pursued him. He saw
always Luce's pale face, her sad eyes fixed
upon him with a kind of reproof and
entreaty. She was certainly paler and
thinner. Perhaps the season had not agreed
with her, late hours were trying to some
girls. After all everything was her own
doing, he had been ready to marry her, to
fulfil the contract, and she had willed it
otherwise. Well, nothing could be changed
now, he must not desert Evelyn. He turned

and saw her standing there, smiling and
beautiful, happy with her strawberries.
Little things satisfied her ; she at least was
never likely to break her heart.

shave you as good strawberries as these
at Long Learn?" she asked, noticing his
stedfast gaze.

^' Yes, I believe so'*

^' You tell me so little," she said, reproachfully,
as she daintily wiped the red stains
from her fingers. '' Are there many greenhouses,
and do you grow orchids? I don't
care for orchids, they cost a great deal, and
they make very little show."

'' No, there are no orchids."

^^ Your grandmother was very fond of
flowers," said Miss Fenchurch, looking up
from her letters. ^^ I remember she gained
prizes, several times, at the county flower-show."


^^ You never half describe the place, and
you know I have not been there," said
Evelyn.

'^ Well; would you like to see it ? "

'' Of course I should, if it is to be my
future home."

^ I think it would be very pleasant to

drive over there in this nice fine weather,"
added Miss Been church; sphere could be no
risk of catching cold, and we could take
luncheon with us."

'^ 1 dare say I could find you something
to eat," he said laughing; ''•' Long Learn is
not in the desert."

'^ Is any one living there, then ? " said
Evelyn, who had thrown herself into an
easy-chair.

'^ Yes, my uncle and aunt Vincent."

^' Those horrid people!" burst out Evelyn.

^^I let them stay there for a little — they
are not rich, you know."

'' And very grasping of course, I have
heard all about them. I must say you are
very forgiving."

Dick coloured. It was not generosity, buta
kind of indifferent carelessness, that
prompted him to offer his relations hospitality.
He suddenly remembered Mrs. Vincent's
extraordinary letters, and her attempts
to worm herself into his confidence, and felt
that his generosity must appear pure folly.

'^ When will you go ? " he asked abruptly.

^' Oh directly, any day," said Evelyn who
was gradually recovering her spirits, in anything

but widow-like fashion. Miss Fen-church
was thoughtful. ^' Perhaps your
uncle and aunt will not like it."

They are only lodgers, only there on
sufferance," laughed Evelyn, forgetting the
similar situation she occupied at Oak-done,
" they must go out some time or
other."

' I can write, and tell them I am coming,

and shall bring some friends," said Dick. '' I
ought to go there really, for I have so much
business''

^^ You must arrange it as you like," said
Miss Fenchurch, bustling off to order the
dinner. Dick and Evelyn were left alone.
They were not often alone, for Miss Fen-church
understood the duties of chaperone
very literally, and, having due regard to the
exigencies of mourning, Dick never ventured
to ask any of the privileges of a lover. He
touched her hand night and morning, he
called her Evelyn, and he looked as much ashe
dared at her creamy skin and the depths
of her fine dark eyes. But the prospect of
matrimony, certainly, seemed to cool his
ardour. The speeches he had poured out
to Evelyn Bray as freely as the fountain

lavishes its spray he never made to Evelyn
Fenchurch. It was true that she never
encouraged him ; she seemed perfectly happy
to have him near her, to call upon him for
all the little offices a man can render, to ask
his advice, and to enjoy the comforts of her
easy life, but she never indulged in the sweet
unreasoning talk that makes the bliss of
lovers, in the delicious teazing quarrels, and
inexpressibly delightful makings-up, that
constitute the historical behaviour of two
persons about to be married. There was
friendship between them, a kind of cool
gratitude on her side, a kind of disillusioned
duty on his. Something of this sort passed
through his mind as he saw her nestled in
one of her peculiarly graceful postures in the
depths of the arm-chair, one white hand
negligently hanging over the arm, and her
two little feet crossed on the small stool
before her. The pose was suggestive, full of
beauty and passive sensuousness.

^' Evelyn ! " She slightly turned her
head.

'' Shall you like going to see my house,
your home that is to be?"

'' Oh yes," she said, '^ it won't be a very

hot long drive, will it? Rachel fidgets me
so with her knitting when I am in the carriage."


'^ I used not to think it long when I rode
over to see you last year — do you remember
that day in the pine wood, when you were so
unhappy."

'^ Oh please don't talk of disagreeable bygones.
I can't think why one is never
allowed to forget."

'' Oh ! if one only could!" he said with an
accent of intense earnestness.

'^ Of course one can. Try not to think
of disagreeable things."

'' Do you never think ? "

The speech was almost rude but he felt he
must utter it.

Never more than I can help. What is
the use ? Nobody can alter fate."

'^I am not a fatalist. I think if I had
known — oh, yes — things might have been
different even for me."

But then you would not have known,"
she said, placidly twisting her rings on her
slim fingers. ^^That is the beauty of not
worrying oneself; one never knows what

may happen, and all the precautions one
takes in case of accidents are useless''

'' Do you love me, Evelyn ? " he asked,
gravely.

^'I? Of course; I thought we settled all
that long ago."

^' Settled it ! Do you mean ended it ? "
No ; you will perversely misunderstand.
Are we not engaged ? Well, is not that
settled."

'^ I was engaged to another girl once."
'' Oh, yes, I know, that plain Luce ; but
you broke it off ; you were quite right.
You had no need to marry for money."

^' I was not marrying her for money
Perhaps it may seem strange to you, that
girl loved me."

'^ Really ! Then I wonder she let you
go. shouldn't, I know."

^^ Luce is a strange girl, but she is very
highlander."

"^ Please don't talk to me of the perfections
of the girl you didn't marry ; that
would be nearly as bad as a discourse on
the virtues of a departed wife; the best
proof of her un suitability is that you did not
marry her."

And you don't believe in self-sacrifice ?■'

' Self-sacrifice ! a thing for old maids and
sisters of charity. I don't believe any girl
gives up her lover from a sense of duty ;
that sort of duty merely implies a very poor
kind of love." Evelyn spoke with assurance,
a half contemptuous smile playing round her
lips.

Dick, who had worked himself up into a
kind of belief that Luce was almost a heroine,
a self-sacrificing, loving girl, now decided
that he must have been mistaken ;
women surely judged their own sex more
accurately than men could do, and Luce
might not have cared for him. He felt
a little happier, and at the same time strangely
disappointed. He would have liked Luce to
be miserable because she had lost him ; and
he would have liked Evelyn to be proud of
her own triumph. Instead of which she
took it all as a matter of course, and he
seemed to have been tossed from one woman
to the other like a kind of shuttlecock.

'^ When shall we go to Long Leam ?" he
began again.

^' Pray arrange it with Rachel. She will

know all about the sandwiches, and the
horses, and the distance''

'' But I want soit to care'' he said, trying
to infuse tenderness into his voice.

•^ So I shall, if the place is as nice as you
say, and there are plenty of greenhouses.
I am passionately fond of fruit."

'^ That is it ! " he said to himself, as he
went upstairs to dress for dinner. '^ Passionately
fond oi fruit, but not of me. Have I
made s. mistake after all, and been ridiculously
Quixotic ? " And again the image
of Luce pursued him in his dreams, and he
heard her say in that soft liquid voice, which
always soothed him,

'^ Do you think I can make you happy?
I will try, but do you think I can ? "

Her diffidence was very charming, for
when did a young man think himself unworthy
to possess the prize for which his
soul thirsted ?

VOL. III. N

CHAPTER XIII.

The warm and luscious July weather continued.
The expedition to Long Learn was
accomplished under the most favourable
auspices, and Mrs. Vincent, fortunately ignorant
of her nephew's engagement, received
Lady Fenchurch with acid politeness. At all
times she was jealous of the influence of
pretty women, and especially so of the
woman who had already entrapped Dick
into her toils. But she remembered her own
precarious position, and, like many of her
betters, swallowed the indignity of condescension
for the advantages to be gained
therefrom.

^' What a quaint old house ! " observed
Evelyn, looking round the drawing-room
wonderingly. '^ And what old-fashioned
furniture ! "

'' My grandmother took care of all the old
things, and never bought any new. Poor
thing ! I remember well, she said my wife
would want new furniture, and she would
save her money for the purpose''

Very nice of her, indeed," said Evelyn,
poking her fingers into jars full of pot-pourra,
and feeling the thin old damask of the curtains
; ^^ of course one couldn't live without
comfortable chairs and dozens of little
tables. I wonder how those old people
managed."

^' They managed very well," said Dick, a
little drily, piqued at the contempt that
pierced through her condescending praises.
'^ I am sure Granny was a picture."

'^ That's so like men ; they never know
what one has on, and because an old lady
wears a handsome silk gown they think her
beautifully dressed. Now, pale lilac silks
are quite out of fashion."

'^ Oh, I don't know," he said, biting his
moustache impatiently ; '^ I can't quite talk
about Granny unconcernedly. She was so
good to me. But come now and have a
look at the bedrooms ; there is a lovely one

n2

that faces the west — see if you would like
that."

'^ Not the one your grandmother died in,"
said Evelyn quickly, with a shudder. '^ I
am so afraid of ghosts."

^' No, not that one," he said, contemptuously
; '^ one in the newer wing'' She followed
him, shaking her handsome crape-laden
skirts as she went.

Mrs. Vincent noticed every thing, and an
expression of ill-will passed over her countenance.


'' Those two are a little too fond of
each other's company," she said, with an
unpleasant look at Miss Fenchurch. The
old maid was her match.

'^ Those two ? Ah, you mean Evelyn and
Mr. Carrol. Poor child! her nerves have
been so badly shaken ever since my poor
brother's death, that I am glad if she will
take the smallest interest in anything."

'^ She looks well nourished," remarked
Mrs. Vincent, with a genteelly modulated
snort.

'' Appearances are deceptive," said the old
maid, pulling her knitting out of her pocket.

'you only knit," said Mrs. Vincent,

dropping the obnoxious subject ; " you
should see my girl's crewel-work."

'^ Crewel work, fudge!" replied Miss Fen-church.
'^ Now, there's some sense in
knitting; hand-made stockings have twice
the wear in them, but I can't see the use of
covering sofas and chairs with things that
look like darned dusters — darned, too, with
worsted that don't match."

Mrs. Vincent shrugged her shoulders, so
much plain good sense shocked her. Had
she not spent mints of money in procuring
for her daughters all the advantages of
fashionable accomplishments ?

Meanwhile the young people, tired of
rambling, had come to a stand-still in the
large best bedroom. The western setting
sun threw slanting beams of rosy light upon
the carpet and on their faces, and touched
Evelyn's finger-tips with a pretty ruddiness.

*' Confess it's a nice old house," said the
young man, looking round with a proud
sense of possession, '' and it's so well built —
such thick walls, such doors, see ; and the
paneling — those old fellows did know how
to build."

^' Yes," she said, fascinated by the quaint

curves of the old carved chimney-piece,
'the walls are as thick as those of a
prison."

^' What a comparison ! it shall never be a
prison to you."

'^ No'' she answered, laughing, and moving
on to examine a print. '^ I can admire
this at least — what a sweet Bartolozzi ! "

After luncheon they visited the gardens,
and paced the smooth gravel-walks, and
went through the grove, which, damp with a
layer of decaying leaves in the autumn, now
offered to their feet the softest carpet of
green moss. Lady Fenchurch was in great
spirits. She laughed at Dick's Jittie sentimentalities
over the place ; suggested an
improvement here or an alteration there,
and viewed everything with the eye of an
expert. Dick would have liked her to be a
little more sober, a little more subdued, but
how is it possible, except in a carping spirit,
to find fault with a beautiful woman who
leans on your arm as she walks, and accentuated
her observation by the slightest
possible pressure whenever she is interested.
Evelyn passed a pleasant day, and Dick
tried to feel perfectly satisfied. Miss Fen-church

spent a less happy day, for Mrs.
Vincent annoyed her, and showed her
nothing really interesting except a new
kind of incubator warranted to hatch
chickens by the thousand. The sight of this
arrested Miss Fenchurch's attention for a
considerable time ; she wanted to know how
everything was managed, and whether the
machinery ever went out of order, and the
exact principle of its working, and how the
heat was to be regulated. Occupied in these
housewifely cares the latter part of the
afternoon passed more quickly than she had
anticipated. Dick watched the ladies drive
off with mixed feelings. He had stayed
behind on a plea of business, and he rather
dreaded facing aunt Vincent in the bosom
of her family. He was certain she would
ask disagreeable questions, and show interfering
inquisitiveness. But to his surprise
she did nothing of the kind. She talked of
indifferent subjects, carved the lamb, and
dispensed the strawberries with affability if
not with grace, while Vincent himself was in
an affectionate state of semi sobriety, and
Dolly and Eliza, as usual, giggled innocently
together at nothing. Dick alleged

heavy arrears of letter writing as an excuse
for not reappearing in the drawing-room
after dinner, and retired to his own den with
a pipe to chew the cud of solitary fancy.
He missed his grandmother more than he
could have believed, and now that he had
attained the wishes of his heart, now that
he was rich, courted, and free to marry the
woman for whom he had once conceived a
kind of insane passion, he felt a strange
sense of emptiness and dissatisfaction. He
filled his pipe and sat motionless, thinking
and smoking, the pile of letters lying untouched
before him. He reviewed his past,
and remembered what he had so often
said to Bruce, ^ ^ all I ask is to be allowed to
live my own life as I please''

Faithful Bruce, where was he now ?
Plunged as usual in study he supposed ; he
could find happiness in that, while Dick
with every desire gratified still wished and
longed for — he knew not what. He resolved
to write to Bruce ; he was to blame in not
having done so sooner, for the poor student
had no time to make new friends, and naturally
clung to the old ones. This sultry
summer weather too, though cool under the

wide-spreading old trees of Long Learn,
must be stifling in London. Bruce might
be ill, knocked up by work and heat. Why
should he not come here and set up his inkstand
and folios in one of the many cool
chambers of the sehii-inhabited old house ?
He might work undisturbed. Dick did not
care, for he could roam about the fields and
look at the young pheasants and break in
the chestnut colt. Certainly Bruce must
come and see Dick at home, in his own
house, master of his property, doing as he
listed. He took up his pen to write the
letter while he was in the mind, and as he
did so the clock struck two. Two o'clock
already, and how still the old house seemed.
His den panelled with old oak was dark at
all times, and now only dimly illuminated
by the light of two wax-candles placed on
the writing-table. A crowd of shadows
seemed to gather round, and a number of
old memories crept about him. How many
people had sat in that room already, and
thought their thoughts, and fretted out their
passions, who now lay mouldering in the
dust. Sometimes in an old house, filled with
the memories of long years, the ghosts of

bygone ancestors seem to be more real than
one's own petty life. Dick felt it at that
moment. He laid his pipe on the table and
buried his face in his hands. That life he
had wanted to live for himself, was it indeed
his own, was it not rather the accumulated
sum of all those ghostly ancestors' lives ?
The family traits, the family weaknesses,
had they not always hemmed him round and
carried him away. The long line of forefathers
counted for something after all ; the
massive walls had retained some germ of
spiritual affinity ; the very air was impregnated
with the odour of their dead bones.
Line his own life, who could do it ? noblesse
oblige in the strongest sense by hereditary
tendencies. He sighed. The atmosphere
seemed stifling, like the heaviness that is
the predecessor of a thunderstorm. That
odour too, that filled his nostrils, how strange
it was, like something sulphurous. No doubt
the lateness of the hour, the gloomy shadows
around, made him fancy all these queer sepulchral
visions ; yet certainly there was
something abnormal in the night. An overpowering
dense heat, a smokiness in the
air. A tiny rim of light stole under the

door at that instant. Half stupidly he wondered
if it were uncle Vincent going to bed,
then with a sudden return of calm reason
he guessed instinctively at the cause of his
odd sensations. He started up, taking the
candle in his hand, and threw the door open
sharply. A thick cloud of smoke burst in
through the aperture, almost stifling him,
and a red spot in the distance confirmed his
fears. Down the dark passage he flew,
pushed open the swing-door that led into
the gallery, where one peaceful night before
among the moonbeams and the silence he
held Luce for the first time in his arms, and
heard her broken words of love. No time
for memories now. The oaken floor was
cracking, flames darting up to the ceiling.
He turned and flew back down the passage,
stopping only to peal the loud alarm-bell,
and hurried by to knock at his aunt's door
crying '' fire ! fire ! " then darted hither and
thither, calling, waking, terrifying the inmates
of the house, until the servants,
trembling and half awake in their scantily
hustled on garments, stood round him.

Dick was in his element. He was brave,
and he knew how to command. The buckets.

some of which were already mouldy fromage
and disuse, were quickly brought out, a
cordon formed to the pump in the stable-yard,
and several messengers dispatched for
aid and a fire-engine to West Thorpe. The
stupefied servants worked with a will, and
presently Mrs. Vincent and the girls, white
with fear, joined the salvage party. But the
age of the house was sadly in favour of the
devouring flames ; the thick oak beams resisted
manfully, letting themselves be charred
externally, and retaining their sturdy heart
untouched ; but everything else was dry as
tinder, and the flames, spurting upwards,
with fury and velocity unequalled, licked
greedily at the plaster and woodwork. Ceilings
fell in with a crash, fine old furniture
became a heap of tinder, iron rods and supports
were bent as by the grasp of an infuriated
Titan, and all the while, as though
drunk with its own triumph, the fire grew
and grew, and the lurid glare lit up the sky
and startled the villages for miles around.

'' Are we all here ? " said Dick, looking
about, his face pallid and drawn with
anxiety.

^' Every one, sir, thanks to your timely

warning'' said the old butler, whose white
locks waved in the hot blast.

^' Thank God, then ; now let's try to save
something." The drawing-room and gallery
over it, Granny's old room, and the diningroom
were helplessly burnt. It was there
the fire had raged most fiercely, but the new
wing in which Mrs. Vincent and the children
had lived seemed as though it might be
saved. The men redoubled their efforts.
New recruits arrived every moment, and
the fire-engine had at last made its appearance.
There was a large incandescent flaming
mass between the outside walls, which
still stood grim and blackened, and the new .
wing, and, if it were possible to save the
wing, the fire might possibly burn itself out
in the molten cavern it had formed.

It's the wind, the wind, I'm afraid of,"
said the old gardener, looking anxiously
towards the west, ^' it seems to be rising''

Just then the flames gave a mocking leap,
and darted across. In a moment the new
wing was in flames.

'^ Oh, my jewels ! my jewels," shrieked
Mrs. Vincent, ^' save them, somebody — save
them."

'' Where are they ? " asked Dick, standing
close beside her.

'^ In my room. Oh ! the flames are
terrible ; see in another moment my room
will be burnt."

'' I will get them if it is in man's power,"
said Dick rushing towards the burning mass.
He had forgotten Mrs. Vincent's property in
his great desire to save the pictures, which,
cut hastily out of their frames, were cast
on the ground, amid a motley heap of
furniture and plate dashed from the windows,
and saved to the best of each man's ability.
But to Mrs. Vincent her little possessions,
her trinkets and jewels, were as precious as
the family heir-looms to Dick. In a fit of
self-reproach he determined to rescue them,
himself. It was no easy task ; the flames,
scarcely intimidated by the showers of
water poured on them, rioted sublimely in
their fearlessness. Had it not been a dreadful
it would have been a sublime sight. The
great sheet of flame dancing and quivering
with bacchanalian delight, the tongues of
fire leaping up in wild ecstacy to fall back
in sullen intensity of power, the group of
helpless creatures battling with the awful

strength of the consuming elements, and with
white despairing faces ironically tinged with
rosy hues, watching each fresh advance and
victory of the fire. It was easy to get into
the wing by the back door, but to make his
way into Mrs. Vincent's room needed all
Dick's courage and daring. He had to tread
on burning floors, and he felt the scorching
heat seize his hair and moustache. Outside,
the breathless crowd viewed him in silence.
They could distinguish the black figure
cautiously feeling its way and fitfully
illuminated at intervals by gleams and
flashes of light: now lost to view for a
moment behind a pillar or a rafter, then
emerging, still steadily advancing ; he was
on the threshold of Mrs. Vincent's room, and
now he was in it. A shout of applause arose.
Dick groped his way about. In another
instant he had the jewel-case in his hand,
but as he turned to the door a sheet of flame
and smoke swept in and hid him from the
affrighted spectators. Some of the maids
swooned. This was too terrible; to risk one's
life for jewels, seemed to them almost
profane.

^^ Throw me a rope," cried Dick, suddenly

appearing at the window, blackened with
smoke, yet apparently safe and sound. A
ladder was brought and put up against the
wall. '' A rope, a rope ! " shouted Dick
again. No one could remember where such
a thing was to be found. ^^A rope," again
shouted Dick, and he stood there, like a young
hero outlined against the cruel leaping flame.
Then a crash was heard and the women hiding
their faces cried '' Oh ! " with a long-drawn
shudder. It was only a bit of the wall
crumbling. Dick still stood at the window
waiting. He had torn in strips and knotted
together some sheets and let them down, but
they were too short, a leap thence to the
ground would still be dangerous. A cry
of anger rose from the group below, ^^ Where
is a rope ? Do bring a rope'' As usual in
such cases no one remembered where anything
was to be found ; the butler knew
there were ropes on the premises, but could
not state where ; the gardener thought they
were in the loft, and hither and thither each
one ran, frightened, bewildered, and helpless.
And all this time Dick stood at the window,
and the flames gained upon him, and the
heat was almost intolerable, and there

seemed no way of escape, but deaths on all
sides. If lie waited, certain death ; if he
jumped, probable death. '^ Jump," was the
cry from below now, '^ you had better
jump." He saw a blanket stretched by
.willing arms beneath him, he gazed into
anxious eager faces. He knew they would
save him if they could, and yet he hesitated.
Just then a burning blast touched his face,
his clothes were on fire, his hands smarting
with pain. He still held the dressing-case
in his hand. ^^ Accursed thing!" he thought,
shall I die for you ? " and Luce's face rose
before him in the angry flame, and her eyes
so clear and deep looked reproachfully, as
they had done that night at the opera.
'^ Catch it," he shouted as he tossed the
dressing-case on the ground. It burst open
from the shock, and cases of diamonds and
pearls fell at the feet of stable-men and
gardeners, who, never heeding, still held the
blanket, and still shouted to him '^ jump."
He was feeling giddy, the heat and smoke
were choking him, but he had saved the
jewels at least, he had not died a coward.
Perhaps, after all, this was as good an ending

VOL. III. o

to his life as he could have dared to hope
for. They were coming nearer, nearer, in
their devilish gracefulness and strength —
the hungry flames ; what pain, what fearful
heat, he could endure it no longer ! '^ Oh ! \
God, have mercy on me!" he cried out.
Then he jumped.

CHAPTER XIV.

In the cool clear morning light, the great
pile of buildings stood a blackened ruin.
The strongly-built walls resisted the fire, but
the heart of the structure had melted away,
and showed only a hideous chasm. Some of
the furniture, and most of the pictures and
plate, were saved, and Mrs. Vincent's jewel-case;
but Dick, the hero of the affair, the
man who had risked life and limb, lay
terribly injured and unconscious in the
bailiff's house, whither he had been carried
after his accident. Mrs. Vincent scarcely knew
whether to mourn or to rejoice. If anything
happened to Dick the inheritance washer
husband's, and yet that he should have
risked his life and perhaps lost it for her
was a terrible idea. She tried to comfort
herself and still the vain pleadings of her



desire by repeating that one must conform
to the decrees of Providence, that He knew
best, that Dick's fate lay in His hands, and
so forth, but inwardly she was possessed
by a febrile anxiety, and watched every
symptom of his condition with unceasing
interest and never-failing acumen. The
rest of the family pic nicked as best they
could amid bales of furniture and piles of
chairs and tables and picture-frames, heaped
together just as they had been rescued.
There were no regular meals and everything
took place in delightful confusion.
Dolly and Eliza were enchanted. It was the
nearest approach to romance they had ever
experienced in their uneventful lives, and
they made the most of the opportunity.
They dressed themselves in all kinds of
odds and ends and wandered about handing
-hand amid the smoking ruins, expecting
to find some valuable treasure in their
midst. Glass smoked till it looked like
bronze, opaline crystals formed from the
action of the heat, molten lead run into the
most grotesque shapes, rewarded their search,
but the treasure lay only in their imagination.
But the poor old butler had discovered

something. Being considered too
weak to hold the blanket, he had stood by
anxiously at the time of the incident of the
dressing-case, and, as it burst open by the
violence of the fall, he hurried forward to
collect the fragments. He picked up the
various cases and some of their contents,
and as he did so noticed a packet wrapped
in white paper, with the seals broken, and
addressed to Lady Fenchurch. The superscription
puzzled the old man for the
moment, then, as all the facts flashed on his
memory, he put the packet in his pocket,
and gathering up the rest of the valuables
hurried the dressing-case into a safe corner!
Mrs. Vincent, distracted between the intensity
of her observation of Dick's movements
and her desire to obtain safe possession of
her jewels, had not noticed the old man's
manoeuvres, and when the jewel-case was
finally shown to her as safe, though somewhat
damaged by the fall, she made only a
hasty survey of its contents. Meanwhile
the old butler, having examined the packet
and satisfied himself that it contained the
pearl necklace, kept his own counsel and
determined to say nothing until Dick was

sufficiently recovered to understand the importance
of the discovery.

The news of the disaster, coupled with a
very exaggerated description of Dick's
dangerous condition, reached the inmates
of Oakdene through the servants' gossip.
The butcher had told the cook, who had
told the butler, who thought it his duty to
communicate the intelligence to Miss Fen-church.
The old maid was dreadfully
shocked. She hurried into her sister-in-law's
boudoir, where she was busily decorating
the pug with a new scarlet ribbon.

^^ Oh, Evelyn ! your new home, and poor
Mr. Carrol, oh, dear ! and all the fine old
furniture too "

'' What has happened, Rachel ? " said
Lady Fen church, rising quickly and upsetting
the pug somewhat rudely on to the
floor, ^^ you really should spare my nerves
a little, especially as I did not sleep well
last night."

'' My dear, I am so sorry." Miss Fen-church
sank breathlessly into a chair. 'but
then fires do not happen every day ; it is
the first bad one I remember in all my
experience."

^^ Eire ! what fire ? " Evelyn turned a
shade whiter than was her wont.

swell, really I don't know; they say
Long Learn is burnt to the ground ; nothing
left but a heap of ashes ; and Mr. Carrol,
after doing wonders to save everything and
everybody, is dying from the result of fearful
wounds''

'^ Dying ! — how horrible ! "

^^ Yes, my dear, and burns are such terrible
agony. I remember, when Sally Brown's
child was scalded by the tea-kettle, her
shrieks were awful to listen to."

'^ We must go at once, Rachel''

*' Go where, my dear ? "

To see Mr. Carrol. Here, I'll order the
carriage immediately. Smith can be round
in a quarter-of-an-hour; and you go and put
your bonnet on."

*^ And your nerves ? "

^^ They are all right — I shan't breakdown."


'' But, my dear, you are a young widow,
and no one knows anything of your relation
to Mr. Carrol. It would be indecent
positively indecent and unwomanly — ^I
couldn't countenance it, my dear ; I couldn't

indeed — not with my dear dead brother's
widow."

*^ Unwomanly! indecent!" Evelyn walked
up and down passionately; '^ when, perhaps,
for the only time in my life, I wish to do a
right and an unselfish thing ! Do you think
I like sickness and suffering, and, perhaps,
death? — 1 loathe it — I shrink from it. I
could run away from it, and yet I must go.
Remember, I am to marry this man."

'^ But not yet, my dear ; not till a decent
period of mourning has elapsed — what will
people say ? "

^* Decent period of mourning! Am I to
wait till my crape is worn out, to help a
fellow-creature? besides" — suddenly changing
her tone, ^^ just think ; I have never seen
a fire ; and it must be so interesting."

'^ A morbid love of excitement," moaned
Miss Fenchurch ; '^a purely morbid love of
excitement! What are the young women of
the present day coming to ? Ah ! if you
would only knit, my dear, it is so steadying
to the nerves."

^^No doubt; no doubt" — Lady Fenchurch
stamped her foot impatiently; ^^ but I'm
going now — do you mean to come ? "

Poor Miss Fenchurch sighed. She wished
she had never reported the butcher's conversation,
for, after all, it might not be true;
but, like a docile dog, she followed Evelyn
upstairs, and prepared to put on her things.
During the drive Lady Fenchurch was in an
unwonted state of excitement. She could
not help feeling the unconventionality of her
proceeding, and, at the same time, enjoying
it with the geniality of a school-girl. She
was so tired of the trappings of woe, and of
the necessity for quiet retirement, that this
totally unexpected excitement tickled her
nerves pleasantly.

The day was bright and fresh ; the golden
corn waved in the fields, ready for the
reaper's sickle ; the blue sky, dappled with
clouds, arched high and light above their
heads ; the scented hedges, the profusion of
wild flowers, offered an agreeable prospect
to their eyes, and made the contrast between
the present and the future even more dreadful.
An old home in ruins, a dying man,
her own sad fortune, were not agreeable
subjects of meditation, and yet, as she drove
along, Evelyn's spirits rose, spite of herself.
Miss Fenchurch gloomed in silence. She

had never before been called upon to play
propriety on such an occasion as this.

'^ Do you think he will know me ? " asked
Evelyn, suddenly.

^^ Know you ? I suppose he will have his
head tied up in a bandage with ice upon it.
You are surely not going to penetrate into
the young man's bedroom? "

'^ I shall go to Dick, wherever he maybe."


^^ Humph!" ejaculated Miss Fenchurch ;
'^ no young woman in my day ever presumed
so much as to know that a young
man had sl bedroom. That kind of subject
was always slurred over with propriety."

^^ You forget I am a widow, and not an
old maid," wickedly said Evelyn.

^^ Yes, my dear, I know that ; and I know
also what St. Paul says in the matter."

^^ Please don't quote St. Paul ; besides,
here we are "

The lodge-gates stood open ; crowds of
people paraded the park, and there in the
distance, where the handsome old house used
to be, the black walls reared themselves
gaunt and lonely. Beyond, the grove was
intact, and the light-footed Mercury still

poised himself in the attitude of flight on
the golden base amidst the dark-green
foliage.

'^ Oh, Rachel, it is dreadful ! and to think
we lunched here only yesterday, and I
chose my own room — the one with the
western aspect," said Evelyn, standing up
in the carriage to see better.

^^I wonder if it was heavily insured ; of
course all that old furniture and the Adams
carving is gone for ever," said the old maid,
'' besides half the time the insurance offices
dispute your claim."

They drove up at that instant, and a civil
policeman answered their inquiries.

Mr. Carrol is very bad, I believe," he
said, ^^but you'll find them all down at the
bailiff's house there — it's only a few hundred
yards off'' He pointed with his finger, and
the carriage drove on. Both the ladies were
silent, wrapped in their own thoughts. The
bailiff's house was a pretty one. It was built
of red brick with white stone copings ; it
had a nice orchard on one side, and a poultry-yard
on the other, and over the door climbed
a splendid pear-tree. No one was to be
seen, for Dolly and Eliza were as usual

groping about the ruins. Uncle Vincent
was away superintending the removal of
furniture, and Mrs. Vincent was making up
accounts in the back parlour, which looked
out on the farmyard. The footman rang
the bell, and after a little a scared maid
appeared, whose wits, scattered by the sad
events of the previous night, had not yet
returned to their habitual calm of stupidity.

'' Madam — Mrs. Vincent — Mr. Carrol —
oh, yes, they're all at home," she stammered.
^' Please will you walk in here''

Miss Fenchurch directed the coachman to
put up at the nearest inn, and then the two
ladies entered the house. Lady Fenchurclrs
heart beat violently. She dreaded any horrible
sight, and was not quite sure whether
she cared enough for Dick to endure his
mangled, perhaps bleeding, appearance. He
had been so handsome ; how if the beauty
had disappeared, and given place to loathsome
ugliness. How should she dare to
look ?

The little maid showed them into the
front parlour, fitted with glossy old oak cupboards
and tables. Miss Fenchurch went
into ecstasy over their polished surfaces and

handsome carving, while Evelyn thoughtfully
smelt at a bunch of roses and mignonette
stuck in a brown jug in the centre
of the table. Presently the maid returned,
ushering in a nurse.

^' You want to see Mr. Carrol, ladies ?" she
said. ^' I fear it is impossible. He is unconscious."


^* Just for one minute' said Lady Een-
church pleadingly ; ^^ just for one minute let
us see him."

The nurse hesitated. This handsome
young lady was no doubt some relation or
cousin or a sweetheart. The presence of a
pretty woman could not hurt him, especially'
as he took no notice of what was going on
around him, and it would please her.

^' Very well, then," she said ; ^' I will risk
it, but you must promise not to speak or
make any noise."

^* I promise," and therewith leaving Miss
Fenchurch to a further contemplation of the
old oak they mounted the stairs. The sickroom
was shaded, and only a gentle light
filtered through the green Venetian blinds.
In the bed lay Dick pale as death, and
motionless. A smell of ether and lavender-water

floated in the air, but there was
nothing terrible or frightening. Dick's face
was perfectly calm. He might have been
asleep. Evelyn breathed more freely. She
little knew how much she had dreaded till
her fears were relieved. She drew near,
and gently put her lips to the cheek which
lay wearily on the white pillow. As she did
so the invalid moved and murmured softly,
'' Luce''

She started back as if stung by a viper,
while the nurse remarked with satisfaction —
'' That is the first time ho has spoken yet —
he is getting better."

Lady Fenchurch gave another look, a
half-frightened, half angry look, towards the
bed.

'^ Let us go down, nurse ; there is a smell
of ether in the room. I can't bear it."

The nurse opened the door quietly, thinking
to herself that it was a pity young ladies
should be so sensitive ; she never minded
the smell, or indeed far worse odours.

'' There, now, my dear, you're as white
as a ghost," said Miss Fenchurch, when she
returned to the little parlour. '^ I knew it
would upset you to see the poor young man,

and in bed too. People always look worse
in bed."

'^ You were right and I was wrong," said
Evelyn, in a faint voice, sinking into a chair.
'^ Let us go home."

^' What ? without seeing the Vincent and
the ruins. I thought we came partly to seethe
ruins ; I am much interested to observe
the ravages of the fire — I am sure it was
caused by the housemaids' candles, they are
so careless."

Very well." Evelyn resigned herself
feebly to the consequence of her own imprudence.


"You do not require my services any
further'' said the nurse, who was still standing
in the aperture of the door, with her
hand on the lock. " I should like to return
to my patient. Just now he showed some
signs of consciousness."

"No, my good woman, you can go — at
least — you must first tell us what you
think of him, is he likely to recover ? "

Evelyn sat by stonily. She did not even
lift her eyes at the question.

"rit's impossible to say; if he takes nourishment

and if he keeps quiet, lie may do.
But we are afraid of internal injuries*'

^^ Internal injuries!" echoed Evelyn, despairingly
; '• how terrible ! "

^' Yes, ma'am, and it's a wonder he escaped
with his life at all. He was dreadfully
burnt, and all shattered to pieces like."

"• Have you often had a case like this
before ? " asked Miss Penchurch, moved by
female curiosity to discuss the case as one
of pathological interest.

'' Not exactly, but I've had a good deal
to do with burns and accidents''

^' We are keeping nurse, and she ought to
return to her patient," observed Evelyn.

'' Yes, of course ; but, nurse, you're not
afraid of delirium, are you ? "

'^ No, ma'am. He seems quiet enough,
quite child-like I may say."

'^ Well, take great care of him, his life is
very valuable. He is the master of Long
Leam, you know."

'' So I understand," and the nurse, pursing
her lips, withdrew quietly.

'^ And what do you mean to do now,
Rachel ? " said Lady Fenchurch, rousing

herself from the apathy into which she
seemed to have fallen.

'' Mrs. Vincent will be here directly and
we must offer her assistance ; this little
house must be most inconvenient for so
large a party. What do you say to asking
them all over to Oakdene ? "

^' What! those tiresome girls, Dolly and
Eliza ? — I could not stand them''

^' They are very much like other girls, I
think, and seem quiet and ladylike "

They are fearfully dull — fancy having
those girls on one's hands all day."

'^ Well, they will learn to employ themselves,
I cannot see any great hardship in
that "

"• And that dreadful Mr. Vincent."

*' He will be your uncle soon if the poor
young man recovers ; hush ! " Miss Fen-church
drew herself up primly; ^' here comes
Mrs. Vincent."

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

Mrs. Vincent entered with her cap-strings
flying and an air of unwonted gloom and
solemnity. '' How kind of you to come''
she said, ^' into this house of mourning ! "

^^ I suppose the insurance is all right, '^
put in Miss Pencharch, quickly.

''I hope so, but one never knows. That
beautiful house. Miss Fenchurch — that fine
old mansion that we were all so fond of —
burnt to the ground — the ways of Providence
are past finding out''

sand the housemaids?" ejaculated Miss
Fenchurch, ^^oh! those housemaids — are
you convinced the fire did not originate in
dropped lucifer matches ? "

'' Very probably, but "

^' Or with lighted papers thrown into

the fire-place ? that is another dangerous
habit. I write up warnings in all the bedrooms."


^^Eachel, what does it matter how the fire
originated? the question is what to do now."

^' Yes ; can we offer you beds — we have
no one at home, you know, but ourselves."

'' Thanks, there is poor young Dick, my
duty is to the unfortunate lad "

But your husband and daughters."

^' Ah, Dolly and Eliza — they must go
home — they must learn to submit to the
decrees of Providence. I shall arrange for
them to start tomorrow."

^' What a head for organization you must
have ! " said Miss Fenchurch, admiringly.

Mrs. Vincent smiled a sad little self conscious
smile, ^' I have been told so."

And you are an admirable nurse, I am
sure."

'' I have nursed all my family. And who
is there that has not been ill and can look
forward to perpetual good health ? "

*' Very true." Miss Fenchurch sighed also.

Evelyn, whom this colloquy exasperated,
said, ''' We had better not detain Mrs. Vincent
now, Rachel, if we can do no more for

p 2

her, and she has all her arrangements to
make."

^^ But you will see the ruins first — oh yes,
you must, please; my girls are always there;
children, you know, perfect children, and
yet so accomplished ; if you will come with
me you need not be incommoded by any
crowd — they all know m^."

Therewith Mrs. Vincent rang for the
half-scared maid, who in all her time of
service with the quiet bailiff's wife (who of
her own accord was now relegated to the
kitchen premises) had never seen such
goings on and such a quantity of fine folk,
and laid upon her such numerous and urgent
injunctions about hot water, luncheon, the
making of beef-tea and lemonade, that the
poor girl's wits almost forsook her again.
Then, gathering up her mantle and a garden -
hat, she sallied forth to pilot her guests.
Mrs. Vincent was a very important person
now, and the respectful bows and greetings
of the work-people they met amply denoted
it. As long as the young master lay ill and
dying, and Mr. Vincent scarcely realised his
position, every duty and responsibility devolved
upon his wife, and admirably she

responded to them. She was happier than
she had been for many a long day, walking
about the smoking ruins and giving orders
to the nurse in the shaded sick room. Presently
they met Dolly and Eliza, their
hands full of calcined stones and queer-shaped
bits of glass and lead. ^^ We have
found such strange things," they exclaimed
simultaneously, " and over there they are
digging out all manner of funny twisted bits
of iron, and books and glass as black as coal
do come mamma."

The girls were quite excited. They felt
like Robinson Crusoe on his desert island.
Flurried with happy expectation and surprise,
they had quite forgotten their company
manners, left their gloves behind, and looked
for the nonce two joyous sunburnt simple
English girls.

'^ Dolly ! Eliza ! " said their mother,
"take these ladies and show them everything;
where is your father — find him''

Papa is in the stables, he is talking to
the grooms about the narrow escape the
horses had."

^' There, that will do, don't chatter, and
behave properly," added Mrs. Vincent; ^^ and

when you have quite satisfied your curiosity,
Lady Fenchurch, I hope you will come
back to lunch."

'' Thank you, no' said Evelyn, a little
proudly — war was secretly accepted between
these two women — they already mutually
disliked and feared each other; ^'we must
be going home."

^^But we will come to take the last news
of your dear and interesting patient before
we drive off," said Miss Fenchurch, with her
old-fashioned maidenly punctiliousness.

'^ Dear and interesting patient," mumbled
Mrs. Vincent to herself, as she hurried back
to the bailiff's little house ; ^' will he live or
will he die ? that is the question. I wish I
knew. I wish I could gather some definite
notion of the safest line of conduct. Those
women scent something, they mean mischief
they are after him, I believe, and the young
one looks as if she wouldn't be trifled with ;
as for the other, of course she's an old
goose."

Mrs. Vincent knew nothing of Evelyn's
short visit to the sick room, and the nurse
never told her, thinking very properly that
she had rather transgressed directions in

admitting a stranger. Had Mrs. Vincent
known this, she would have descried even
more danger in the subtly-veiled politeness
of the ladies' invitation to Oakdene. She
was considerably disturbed too by the absence
of the pearl necklace, which in setting
to rights her dressing-case she discovered to
be missing, but she dared not proclaim her
loss, and only trusted that the obnoxious
jewel had perished in the flames, and thus
extricated her from any further dilemma.

Mrs. Vincent walked softly into the sickroom.
The nurse had gone to her dinner.
There was no one present but the invalid,
and he lay with his eyes shut as if he were*
dead. Was he dead ? Perhaps. Mrs. Vincent
stooped and laid her hand on his forehead,
as softly as Evelyn had laid her lips,
but there was no love in her touch. The
sick man seemed to feel it, he moved and
moaned while her hard, cold eyes looked
critically at him. Why couldn't he die
when he was maimed and mangled, already
a semi-corpse? He would not feel death
now ; its bitterest pangs were past, and his
removal might do such good to her children.
The doctor scarcely expected him to live

everything would be smooth and natural if
he were gone. She need have no secret to
keep then, be tortured by no fears lest he
should discover her deceit and revenge it.

Why shouldn't that pale figure grow paler
and whiter, and the heart stop, and the
spirit fly away — where ? Oh, that was not
her business; but she loved her children,
and in a kind of contemptuous way the
drunken husband too, and Dick's death
would be their gain. The leaves of the
wide-spreading pear-tree flapped gently
against the window, the summer breeze
swept through the crevices of the blind, and
Dick lay motionless. His life hung thereby
a thread, trembling in the balance of
eternity. A small sedative, a few drops of
an opiate, and he would never awaken more.
No one could call it a crime, rather it seemed
a mercy to spare the poor wretch the agony
of convalescence or the worse pains of prolonged
death. What will not a woman do
when she is tempted by herself ? That self,
that venal monitor, persuades more surely
than lies in the power of any external influence.
The head speaks more surely and to
more purpose than the heart. While Mrs.

Vincent wrought her vague wishes into firm
intentions the door opened softly, and the
nurse entered, rosy from her dinner. She
looked doubtfully at Mrs. Vincent; is not
the soul visible in the countenance ? Then
glanced towards the bed. *' Our dear patient
is better, I think," said Mrs. Vincent, in her
cold, dry voice, ^^but he seems inclined to
be quiet. You had better let him sleep''

CHAPTER XVI.

Luce stood with clasped hands in the shadow
of the window-curtain. She wanted to be
alone, for she felt her heart breaking. That
morning she had heard the news. Long
Learn was a heap of cinders, and Dick lay
dying. Dying ! impossible. She could only
see him as he looked when they parted, so
happy, so young, so beautiful, with such a
spell of pleasant years to run out before
him. Those bright blue eyes, that graceful
figure, so tall and strong, with the confidence
of youth straightening its lithe gait,
crushed, mangled, shapeless. Ah, it could
not be. She twisted her handkerchief
between her hands and bit her lips till the
blood came. All the love she had tried to
stifle in her heart broke forth like a long
dammed torrent. In sickness, in death, he

seemed nearer to her. She was almost mad
with longing, she hnnger^fd so for one little
glimpse of the poor broken body, to whom
perhaps she could bring relief. If he must
die why could she not be with him, minister
to his wants, turn his pillow, give him to
drink ? No one knew what he liked so well
as she did. But she was nothing to him
now, nothing, not half so much as his faithful
old terrier, or the servant that nursed
and sat up with him. And it was all her
own doing, all her own, no one to blame
but herself. An agonized yearning stole
over her. Perhaps he could be saved ; if
any one could save him, she would. Again
she clenched her hands. She remembered
Lady Eleanor and the proprieties. She was
hemmed in on all sides by her own actions
and by the sphere in which she was placed.
Something whispered to her she had done
right, and then in another instant she said
to herself passionately that there was no
such thing as right, that love was everything,
that love was too sacred, too precious,
to be lightly cast away. He had not loved
her much perhaps but she had loved him,
he had laid his kisses on her lips, he had

pressed her in his arms. And, though tortured
by jealousy, burning with hopeless,
unrequited affection, she had yielded up
these things to another. And where was
that other, was she by his side, sitting
patiently as behoved woman, cooling his
fevered head, wiping away the death-sweat,
holding his hand, passing with him through
the last dread hours, or was she nursing her
own fears, and leaving him to hired cares ?
Luce knew what would be Mrs. Vincent's
tender mercies, she could gauge the depths
of her pity. If he were consigned to that !
Luce started up. Perhaps he was alone and
wanted her. She would go, so gladly, she
asked nothing but just to be near him. The
rolling carriages outside, hurrying to their
business and their pleasure, insatiable in
their voracity for frivolous amusement, recalled
her to a sense of reality. Dick would
die, and she would never see him again.
People would ring out his praises, talk of
him for an hour, pity him, and then he
would be forgotten. It was terrible to die
so young, and to be forgotten. She leant
against the window-curtain, looking outwith
hollow glassy eyes at the street below.

More people, gaily moving, — they did not
care, no one cared except the little girl
up there in the bed-room, her white face
staring into space, who was parted from
him.

^' Luce I " called Maud's gay voice beside
her, Maud whom no misadventures daunted.
'^ Luce, are you not coming down? I have
so much to tell you."

'' I don't want to hear it." Luce put her
fingers in her ear.

Nonsense ! don't be stupid. I'm going
to be married at last."

'' Married ! " The word seemed to Luce
to have no meaning ; wedding-cake, and.
favours, and pretty presents, were incongruous
and distasteful, while Dick lay
dying.

'' Yes, of course, why shouldn't I ?
Arthur Sterneyy has proposed at last, and
he has promised to give up the burlesque
actresses, and live nicely and economically,
and his old aunt is going to pay his debts.
She always said he had the best of hearts,
only his head was not quite so good."

What is the use of a heart ? "

^'Use of a heart? well, it makes a mankind

and generous. Arthur means to give
me lovely presents ; a good-hearted man
always gives presents."

' And, if he breaks your heart, what will
you do ? "

^^ Bless you, child, my heart is not easily
broken ; it has certainly been cracked a few
times, but I've had it strongly riveted. I
have no fear. I am quite equal to most
men and have studied their natures profoundly.
They are not, like us, swayed by
no end of motives, impenetrable and mixed
motives ; you can generally trace a man's
actions to their root — himself. Now if you've
only got the root you can easily plant and
water and make it grow. Man-gardening is as
easy as window-gardening; give them plenty
of scope, deep earth, you know, and don't be
impatient or always pulling them up by the
roots to see why the flower doesn't come, and
you will easily reap the fruits."

'^ The flower is love, I suppose ? ''

'^ No — I don't think so; love is rather
more of a weed. It grows rankly, and in

solitary places ; now you why. Luce !

you've been crying, and you've got a 

look about you. Surely you're not
fretting about that man still ? "

'" Hush ! he is dying," said Luce, with
warning up-lifted finger.

Dying ! poor fellow ! I suppose you're
very miserable ? "

every." Luce hid her face in Maud's
dress. Even so lukewarm a friendship comforted
her at that instant.

^^ And I daresay now you are filled with
some Quixotic kind of notion that you would
like to go and nurse him ? ''

Luce hung her head.

^^ And, of course, save his life, and make
him eternally grateful. I know the sort o£
thing. My dear, that kind of melodramatic
nonsense only does for the stage."

^' Think, just think — if he is dying''

^^ Luce, you surprise me. With all your
quiet and mouse-like ways, you have a great
deal of poetry in you ; and yet, when you
had the chance of marrying this man, you
deliberately threw it away."

'soh! cannot you understand?" sobbed
Luce. '' I loved him so, that I wanted him
to be noble. I thought my love would raise
him to the height I fancied he could reach.

Ah ! I see it now ; it was all visionary, and
stupid, and high-strung ; and he is just
dying, and I am here, helpless and alone."

Well! I confess I cannot conceive your
kind of love ; but I do see you are unhappy,
dear ; what can I do for you ? "

Maud spoke kindly, and her commonplace
words soothed Luce undefinable. When
nature asserts her claim, when souls are
really stirred, there runs a kind of sympathetic
chain from one to the other ; but yet
we never absolutely touch each other at all
points. There remain depths hidden from
the subtlest divining, and chords that can
never be struck ; so that when we suffer
most, we are always really and spiritually
alone. Yet the magic of a kindly touch,
the affinity of a presence, the tremble of a
voice, speak to us of happiness, and raise
our drooping spirits to a possibility of better
things. It is in this that the communion of
friends is truly beneficial ; we idealise their
comprehension ; we misconstrue their grasp
of the truth, and even our mistakes serve to
heal our sorrowing hearts.

What can I do ? " repeated Maud.

'^ Oh ! if you could persuade my aunt to

return to Highview ! there we should be
nearer hin, more able to know, and perhaps
to help."

^* Well, Luce, to show you I am not ill-natured,
now that I am engaged to be
married, and don't so much care for London
(I shall have plenty of time to choose my
dresses), I will urge our return. Your aunt
is unusually good-tempered to-day. I suppose
you would like to go home at once ? "

Luce nodded her head.

^^I will try what I can do," said Maud
encouragingly, as she left the room.

She did try her best, and soon came
back with Lady Eleanor's affirmative answer
The season was nearly over. Lady Eleanor
opined, Maud's engagement had reached a
satisfactory termination, and as to Luce,
there seemed very little reason to suppose that
town or country would make any difference
to her prospects, so they might go as soon
as they pleased she added. Luce and Maud
started first, and arrived at Highview only
a few days after the fire at Long Leam.
Maud lent herself amiably to Luce's desires,
and the two girls concocted quite a little
plot together. They were to drive into

VOL. III. Q

West Thorpe at the earliest opportunity in
Luce's small pony cart, and, under pretext of
shoppings to remain there a couple of hours
while they sent a messenger to Long Learn
to make inquiries about Mr. Carrol's health.
Maud enjoyed anything in the shape
of intrigue heartily, and Luce was too
utterly downcast and wretched to care for
aught but the driblet of news she might by
this means obtain. They were thus agreed;
and Luce, with the prospect of certain intelligence
before her, ventured to feel a little
happier.

The next few days were uneventful
enough. They dared not drive to West
Thorpe every day for fear of attracting
attention, and each report of the invalid
seemed more discouraging.

*' It is a slow kind of thing, you know,
when you're all smashed up as that poor
creature is," Maud tried to assure her
friend, '' one mustn't expect progress. Everyday
he lives is a day gained''

'' Ought one even to wish for life if he
suffers so ? " said Luce despondingly.

•^ Well that depends. I suppose everyone

values life, even the cripples, and the deaf
and dumb."

'^ It would be terrible for him to be a
cripple," said Luce as they drove down the
leafy lanes; *' I can never imagine him except
in the fullest health and spirits."

'' Ah! that's it, and people always pity you
far more if you have enjoyed good health
all your life, while the poor invalid gets no
sympathy because he has already suffered
so much. It's a queer world, that's what it
is, and most things are topsy-turvy in it."

I can imagine this world so beautiful,
that it might seem like paradise."

•' You mean if one has just the things one*
wishes for, but nobody has. Look at me,
now, I'm quite content, and think myself
lucky to get Arthur Sterneyy for a husband ;
and yet, what with his debts, and his duns,
and the way in which he is bored, unless he
finds constant amusement, you wouldn't think
him such a very desirable husband after all."

^'Why do you marry him then?" asked
Luce, idly flicking a fly off the pony's back
with her whip.

'' You really need not ask such ridiculous
questions. You know perfectly well that

q2

there are more women than men in the
world ; that to those of us poor creatures
who can't emigrate as housemaids, or set upas
lady doctors, there is very little scope
given ; and, my dear, I think that girl is not
so great a fool who makes the best of life,
even if it is not very good, as her friend who
stands out for sympathy and love and all
the paraphernalia of sentiment."

Luce quivered. Her companion's philosophy
cut deep into her heart, and there
were times when she said to herself that
the children of this world were at least wise
in their generation. They knew positively
what they wanted, and they strove for it, if
not nobly, at least perseveringly — the secret
of success.

Presently Maud spoke again.

'^ You get paler and thinner every day,
Luce ; if you don't take care you will be ill
too. Can't you rouse yourself ? Find some
occupation. I know you don't care for
dress or gossip as I do, but your music need
not be quite neglected."

'^ Never mind me," said Luce, with a new
touch of fretful impatience. ^' Do you think
she is with him ? ''

They had gleaned but little information
from the messenger, who only saw the
bulletin at the door, which said Mr. Carrol
was no better, and gave no other details.
Luce would fain have known how Dick
slept, who was with him, and every little
item of sick-room tittle-tattle.

'' I should think not ! " answered Maud,
composedly. ^^ Remember she is a widow,
and will probably take very good care of her
reputation, now, as she risked it once.
Unless she announces her engagement to
him, which would shock all the good people,
how can she nurse a young man — what
reason can she give ? "

The good sense of Maud's remarks left
Luce no pretext for demur, and she accustomed
herself to think of Dick as alone.
Presently, by one of the illogical leaps that
love occasionally makes, she imagined herself
with him, and was able to piece together
fragments of the conversation they might
hold.

Mr. Highview, coming in from his ride
one evening, gave form and stability to her
cogitations. It was generally assumed in
the family that Luce, having given her lover

his cone, could not care for him, and that
his affairs might therefore be discussed with
impunity in her presence.

People will judge our private feelings and
prejudices in this manner, according to their
conception of probability.

'every sad about young Carrol, I must
say ! " he remarked, pouring himself out a
cup of tea.

'what has happened?" said Lady
Eleanor, languidly. " I suppose he will not
lose much ; the house must have been well
insured.'

He may lose his life though — I don't
expect that ^^^ insured."

'* His life ! " Luce sat with parted lips,
breathless.

He is as bad as possible. I hear Pilule
telegraphed to-day to London for a physician
; they can't keep the fever down."

I believe Mrs. Vincent is an excellent
nurse," said Lady Eleanor. "I know she
attended ambulance classes, and boasted to
everybody how well she could put on a
bandage."

"Well, I suspect this is a little beyond
her capacity."

'^ Is Mrs. Vincent this only nurse ? " asked
Maud, responding to a pleading look from
Luce.

^^I believe so; she will look after him, I
expect. A fine managing woman, though
she didn't behave quite well about the affair
of the necklace. But women are always so
prejudiced; and, besides, she could not go
against her husband."

'why, his death would be her gain," said
Maud, hotly. ''I don't see how you can
expect her really to care, and to take much
trouble,"

'^ Oh ! my dear," reproved Mr. High view,
*^ she is too high-minded not to do her
duty."

^' Mrs. Vincent is very fond of her own
interests," persisted Maud.

' Now, my dear, what you say there is
really shocking ; why should we suspect
Mrs. Vincent of these unnatural thoughts ? "

'' She has thin lips, and flat bandeaux of
greasy hair ; I always mistrust people with
those peculiarities."

Lady Eleanor laughed. ^' Maud, you put
things so funnily," she said.

Well, I pity poor Dick Carrol while he

is in her clutches. I declare, as I am his
cousin, I think I will go over and offer my
services as nurse. I am sure he would prefer
my soft blundering hands to her bony
claws."

In the general derision Maud's announcement
caused. Luce escaped to her room.
Hot tears sprang to her eyes, and the pain
she was enduring seemed more and more
intolerable.

Chapter XVII.

Lady Fenchurch did not repeat her visit
to Long Learn. Whenever Miss Fenchurch
broached the subject Evelyn seemed to
shrink within herself.

'^ But really, it is rather heartless of us
not to go and inquire, and the weather is so
fine, too," said the old maid regretfully.

^ We can telegraph or write. That will
do."

'^ For your intended husband ? "

^' As I must not announce to the world
that he is my intended husband, I cannot
see that it matters ; besides he is semi-delirious,
he cannot know."

^^ Well, I think we might call to inquire
without risk of being considered intrusive,"
murmured Miss Fenchurch, '^ and I really
cannot understand you ; you were so keen

at one time to visit Mr. Carrol, when,
myself, I thought it a little indecorous."

Evelyn kept silence.

^' Is not that true, my dear ? "

^^ Perhaps, but I wish you would not
worry me." She shivered. " I think I
have got a chill."

^' I am afraid you sat out too late in the
garden last evening, and you would not put
on your shawl."

'' The moon was lovely, and it is really
only pleasant in the evening. What did
you tell me Mr. Peter Fenchurch wrote to
you about ? "

'' I will read you his letter at once," and
herewith the old maid promptly displayed
a piece of paper.

You see he writes from London ; he says
he has been travelling in America, and only
just received the news of my poor brother's
death. He writes very properly, very
properly indeed, considering that I do not
believe he ever saw my poor brother. Ah,
well, if this dear place must go to a stranger
I am at least glad that he should be a
person of nice feeling."

^^ He ought to be very glad ; he will be
rich and master of this place."

.^^ Yes, my dear ; and I think we ought to
receive him kindly."

Is he coming here ? "

"Well, he says he should like to pay his
respects to me ; we can scarcely refuse that."

'' And will he bring his wife and his large
family ? "

'' No. It seems from his letter that his
wife is dead, and he does not speak of any
children."

'' He is elderly, I suppose ? "

'' Oh, yes, he must be elderly, for I
remember Hilary telling me he came to
Eton just as Hilary left Cambridge. There
could not be more than ten years between
them."

I daresay he is a tiresome and uninteresting
person."

'' I don't quite see why you should say
that, dear ; he must have some of the family
characteristics about him."

^^ And then of course he will be excellent,"
put in Evelyn, mockingly.

*' Well, my dear, at any rate we must
prepare for his reception."

'^ Oh, I daresay he will be satisfied with a
cutlet and a glass of sherry if he has been
travelling in wilds where he never got a
letter. He can't be very particular."

'^ Which day shall I ask him ? " said Miss
Fenchurch, swelling with housewifely responsibility.


^^ Whenever you like. I am always here,
you know. I am in mourning, so I can't go
out."

Miss Fenchurch meekly accepted the ungracious
permission, and, ruffled by the
small excitement of receiving a strange
guest, and yet one who would be near to her
in various close and unpleasant ways, retired
to the library to write her letter in the
quiet of deep and mature consideration. It
would not do to seem too eager, and yet she
wished to be cordial ; her dignity must not
be forgotten, and yet a little curiosity might
fairly be allowed to peep out. So Miss Fen-church
sat in solemn propriety, concocting
her letter and learnedly trying the nibs of
quill-pens upon her thumb-nail in order to
find one of the requisite degree of softness.
Lady Fenchurch, meanwhile, paced the
garden in all the heat of noontide, shielded

only by her white parasol and utterly
regardless of the sun's power.

'^ That girl, that little plain girl," she
murmured, between her teeth, ^^to think
that her name should be on his lips when
he was lying there ill and helpless ! " Lady
Fenchurch's amour-propre was deeply
wounded. Could it be that he had only
offered her his hand out of pity ? The loving
days by the river when they glided in the
little boat over the rippling waters in a
peaceful haze of happiness, and thought of
nothing but their own enjoyment, seemed
so far away; the tragedy of her life had
obscured those memories, and made her
more cold and more practical. Yet if he
really only pitied and had ceased to love
her. It was intensely humiliating. No,
she would not go back and simulate tenderness,
and bear disappointment any more,
until she knew the truth. How could little
plain Luce, for whom she had always felt a
kind of contemptuous pity, gain any real
hold on his affections. It was simply because
he was fickle and changeable and selfish, like
all men. She began to look about for a
way to extricate herself from the engagement

(she instinctively knew that he would
be too manly ever to seek to release himself),
and she found none. She could not give up
an iota of her wealth and her comforts, or
resign herself to the narrow life which would
satisfy her sister-in-law, and unless she
married Dick she saw no other outlet. True,
with her youth and beauty she might captivate
some eligible person in the years to
come, but she was too prudent to risk the
substance for the shadow. It was better to
wait. Only one thing was impossible, to go
again and sit by that bedside and hear the
sick man's mumblings. Even the proposed
visit of Mr. Peter Fenchurch, dull and tiresome
as he might be, would prove a certain
variety, and give her a valid excuse for
remaining at home. She amused herself by
speculating a little on Mr. Peter Fenchurch's
feelings when arriving one morning at the
post-office he found the letter conveying to
him the news that his elderly relation was
dead, and dying had bequeathed to him the
greater part of his fortune. Such an experience
must be exceedingly delightful. No
such sweet surprise could ever come to her ;
she was an orphan, a penniless woman, and

the widow of a man who by his testamentary
arrangements had even sought to
blacken her character. She walked a little
faster, and felt a sharp satisfaction in crunching
the gravel beneath her feet. It seemed
as if she were stamping out her vindictiveness
and burying it in the silent dust.

Miss Fenchurch, on the contrary, having
at last indited her letter, proceeded to examine
the linen-cupboards in company with
the housemaid. She wished, as she expressed
it, that Mr. Peter Fenchurch should find
everything in perfect order, and be surprised
at the quality of her housekeeping.
By her brother's will she was entitled to
everything she required in the shape of linen
and plate, but the remainder must be left in
such a condition that the carping eye could
find no fault. The best china too she dusted
lovingly with her own hands. There were
quantities of it, all put away in cupboards,
for it had never been the fashion to expose
china deliberately to the chances of clumsy
handling or to the dangers of modern etageres
and brackets. The china was carefully
washed once a year, and in the interim
reposed luxuriously on the deep shelves of

the vast closets where it was seen by no
mortal, and could therefore be destroyed
by no sacrilegious touch.

'^ Everything is right now, I think," said
Miss Fen church, with a sigh. *' There is
not a fresh chip or a single crack in any of
the cups, and I don't notice a leaf or a flower
off the old Chelsea figures. Ah, Jane, if
Mr. Peter Fenchurch should not care for
china. What a calamity that would be ! "

^'It would indeed, ma'am, but I think
most gentlefolks is partial to queer-shaped
things ; them dragons now, I suppose their
beauty is their ugliness''

^' Certainly," responded Miss Fenchurch,
'^ they are very valuable Nankin china,
and you must know that in the time of
Queen Anne people of the highest quality
approved only of monsters."

Dear me, ma'am'' said Jane, whose
knowledge of history was a little vague, and
who was not very sure whether Queen Anne
lived before or after the Deluge. She was
rather inclined to believe it was after, having
heard something about antediluvian
monsters in a hurried visit paid to the

Crystal Palace on bank holiday, '' dear me,
but then that was a very long time ago."

'^ Yes, indeed. Now, Jane, shut the
cupboards, and give me the keys of the
presses. I think I will go round and pay a
visit to the dairy. Perhaps Mr. Peter maybe
a judge of butter and cheese. I am told
in America they make tons of cheese and
send it over to England to be sold as
Cheshire and Gruyere."

VOL. III. R

CHAPTER XVIII.

The old butler prized his discovery highly.
He locked up the necklace in the plate-chest,
where it was secure from thieves, and he
took it out occasionally to look at it and see
that it had not made wings for itself and
flown away. He chuckled audibly as he
thought how pleased the young master would
be to see it, and what a thunder-bolt would
fall upon Mrs. Vincent when it was generally
known that the necklace which had caused
his poor dear young master so much unhappiness
had been all the while safely
locked away in his aunt's dressing-case.
'' The wiper ! " muttered the old man, as he
cleaned his plate, '' what she must ha' been
made of to torment a poor young man like
that, to lie and to cheat. Well, I'll be
even with her ; " and the old man, who had

never forgiven Mrs. Vincent for her petty-economies
and for her accusation regarding
the sherry, rejoiced greatly as he thought
of the humiliation in store for her. But as
the days went by, and every time he asked
to see his young master he was told that it
was impossible, for in his precarious condition
no one must be admitted to the room,
he ceased to sing over his work, dropped
his chuckling, and finally had a morose fit ;
strange dark thoughts oppressed him. He
owned little regard for Mrs. Vincent, he
believed her capable of almost anything,
and he began to suspect foul play. This
sick chamber, so hermetically closed that
not even an old servant might penetrate its
mysteries; the hired nurse, who, however
skilled, could not be supposed to entertain
much affection ; the weird stories of violence
and delirium that filtered through shut doors,
increased and intensified his suspicions. Cups
of beef-tea and bottles of brandy certainly
returned empty from the patient's room, but
who could tell that 5,ny of the nourishment
had reached him ? The butler had read his
Dickens to some purpose, and remembered
Mrs. Gamp. He grew feverishly anxious

r2

('Hlie young master," with his wild, careless
generous ways, had obtained a strange hold
over the hearts of his dependents) ; he listened
at doors, he got up in the middle of the
night to catch a sound or a muffled cry, and
hour by hour he became more and more
convinced that something uncanny was going
on. He tried to get the half-scared maidservant
into his confidence, but she was too
scared to understand, and only answered
'^ Yes, sir," to all his queries. In despair
he sat down to think who could help him in
this dilemma ; at last he remembered Bruce,
whose name had been kept prominently forward
in the election, and determined to
summon him to his assistance. This required
to be performed in a somewhat roundabout
fashion, for no one in the house was acquainted
with his address ; and several days elapsed
before he could obtain it from Mr. High-view,
the only person he could think of as
possessing the desired information. When
at last he despatched the telegram, which,
began by presenting his humble duty, continued
with the urgent request for Mr.
Bruce's presence, and ended by a mysterious
intimation that something suspicious

was going on, the old man had expended
the sum of two shillings, and had fairly
mystified and alarmed the student. When
Bruce read in the paper the paragraph specially
pointed out to him by his landlady,
who took the deepest interest in all the
places and people with whom he was connected,
he had at once telegraphed to Dick
condoling with him and asking if he could
be of any assistance. Receiving no answer,
and being at that moment particularly engaged
in hunting up an old authority on
some small point of old usage, he concluded
that Dick was well, busy, and did not require
his services. When Mrs. Flinks agaiii
brought him the paper, and bade him notice
the rumour of Dick's severe illness, he began
to grow alarmed, and the butler's telegram
received at that instant confirmed his worst
fears He lost no time in answering, and
hastily stuffing a few things into a bag took
the next train to West Thorpe. It was
evening when he arrived. The lights were
burning in the sleepy little town, and a solitary
fly waited for the arrival of the train. The
horse was old and weak-kneed, the driver a
fossil, and the vehicle shaky and mouldering

; yet Bruce was heartily glad to find
even so unsatisfactory a conveyance. The
seven miles seemed an eternity, the night
was dark and damp, light rain was falling,
the hedges looked like black walls, and he
had only his thoughts for company. They
were not cheerful. He scarcely knew what
to expect. Whether Dick would be alive or
dead, or, worse still, in a sad condition of
mind. To him bodily ill seemed nothing
compared with the lucidity of the intellectual
powers. The saddest sight on earth, he
thought, was the ravings of a man in delirium,
or the coverings of feeble imbecility. Into
which of these states could Dick have fallen ?
could the mysterious warning of the old
butler be meant to convey that the unfortunate
young fellow in a moment of frenzy
had attempted to commit suicide ? Such
were Bruce's dreary pondering while the
driver walked his horse up every small hill
along the road, and spared the horse down
every incline, so that it was very late when
at last they reached the bailiff's house ; the
driver, seeing a light at the back door, halted
there. The rain dripped from the eaves
and a big puddle intercepted the entrance

but at the sound of wheels the door opened
noiselessly, and the old butler appeared fully
dressed with a candle in his hand.

^^ Ah, sir, thank God ! '' he said, ^^ you've
come, now all is well ; you will be able todo
more than I can. I am only a poor old
man and a servant, but I feel love, sir, and
dutifully respect to the young master, and
ah, sir, I have wished for you. Let me pay the
fly, sir, don't you trouble, but step in here."

'^ In here" was the pantry where the old
man had carefully ranged his plate on the
few shelves it contained, and, the evening
being damp, had lit a small fire and placed a
kettle on the hob. Bruce walked in as he
was desired and warmed his hands at the
fire. He was a little chilled by the long
drive and his own anxiety, and he found the
cosy blaze most welcome. The old butler
having dismissed the fly, now entered and
bustled about, talking all the time. '' Here,
sir, IVe got some sherry and sandwiches for
you. I expected you to-night, and, thinks I,
the poor gentleman will be hungry; and now
you've come, please Grot, Mister Dick will
soon be well again."

^^I do not understand," To satisfy the

old man Bruce took a seat and proceeded to
drink some of the sherry. ^^What is the
matter with your master ? ''

Matter, sir ! everything is the matter,
he is shut up, so that none of us who love
him can get near ; that viper, that aunt of
his, nurses him ; it's my belief she drinks the
brandy and gives him only water, and
starves him until, in short, it's downright
murder."

'^ Perhaps she will not admit me."

'^ She dare not refuse, sir ; you're a gentleman
and master's friend, and we're only
servants. She's never tired of telling us so
either."

'' At any rate you must take me to him ;
shall we go upstairs now ? "

'^ Yes, sir — yes ; don't let's lose a minute.
Who knows but she may be murdering him
at this instant."

Bruce was sober and clear headed, and he
was able to make allowances for the old
man's evident fear and flurry ; yet even he
could not resist the impression that there
was something mysterious in this dark and
silent house, where a sick person lay, unseen
and unheard save by Ie woman who had

always shown herself his enemy. He followed
the old butler cautiously up the
narrow wooden stairs, his guide holding the
candle and letting its light fall on the heavy
beams, which, without careful treading,
might have knocked against his head. At
the top of the stairs they turned to the right,
went down a small passage, stumbled up two
or three stairs, and finally groped their way
by the light of the flaring candle ; gusts of
wind swept along, nearly extinguishing it
occasionally, and it seemed to Bruce once as
if he felt the wings of a bat touch his face
and skim past, bringing a quick current of
cold air. Not a sound was to be heard but
the cracking of the old woodwork and the
gentle pattering of the rain against the
passage window. Presently the old butler
stopped before a door, put his ear to the
keyhole to listen, holding his hand up as a
warning to silence. Bruce waited breathlessly
; in another instant he should know
the worst. Having apparently satisfied himself
that all was quiet, the butler turned the
handle gently, and slipped into the room,
motioning to Bruce to follow. A nightlight
burnt on the washing-stand, and a nurse

slept, fully dressed, in an arm-chair. She
woke at the entrance of the newcomers, and
betrayed considerable surprise at the intrusion.


It is an old friend of master's come to
nurse him'' whispered the butler ; ^' now,
nurse, if you want a bit of sleep you can go
and lie down''

^^ Yes, my good woman," said Bruce,
throwing anxious glances towards the bed,
where it seemed to him as if something
stirred. " You can safely leave your patient
to me ; does he take medicine ? what are
your directions ? ''

^* He needs nothing just now, but something
to drink if he wakes ; there is the
lemonade, and he won't wake yet, I expect.
He has not long taken a sleeping-draught,"
said the nurse, too much bewildered by the
tone of quiet authority in which Bruce
spoke, to dare to dispute his orders, and
allowing herself to be led away passively
in search of much-desired rest by the butler.

^^ I will call you if anything is wanted,"
said Bruce, reassuringly.

The butler turned to whisper to him as he
went out. " It's all right now you're here ;

don't you leave master, sir, on any account,
and I shall feel he is safe in your hands."

The door closed, and Bruce was alone —
alone in the small dark room with his unconscious
friend beginning at that instant to
stir restlessly among the pillows. He approached
the bed. Dick's eyes were closed,
and a cold-water bandage was tied round his
head. Yet he moved, and moved incessantly
with the aimless wearying irritability of a
fever patient. Bruce stood and looked pityingly.
The fine strong young man reduced
to such pitiable straits shocked him terribly.

'^ Dick," he said, stooping over him, and
gently arranging his pillow. The eyes did
not unclose, and no shadow of memory or
recognition passed over the pained features.
Bruce drew a chair near the beheld and
watched more closely. What stuff could
Mrs. Vincent be made of that she had never
summoned any of Dick's friends ? Poor
fellow, it was but too evident he had not
long to live. One wasted hand, the blue
veins standing out strongly upon it, clutched
at the counterpane, the other moved up and
down beneath his head as though trying to
ease the pain that tormented him.

Bruce had never watched by the sick bed
of any one he loved before. His mother,
though a martyr to rheumatism, seldom kept
her room, and had never required his services.
He was too much of a philosopher to fear
death for himself, and would gladly have
given his life in the cause of science or
culture, yet his pity was strangely and deeply
excited by the spectacle of his friend's pain
and helplessness Once he had experienced,
he remembered now to his shame, a moment
of envy at the good fortune and the affection
that attended Dick. Who was most to be
envied now? Bruce with his sane intelligence
and unimpaired power of work, or
this poor young fellow the owner of wealth
and estates, hopelessly consigned to sickness
and death; and unconscious even of the love
that noted each flicker of the eyelids. Suddenly
the eyes opened wide, a. vivid flush
of colour came into the unshaven cheeks, the
lips parted and a voice said ^' Luce."

Bruce almost started ; the sound was so
hollow and unearthly and the man seemed
so automatic. ^'It is 1, your friend Julian,"
he said, tenderly, taking one of the poor
hot hands in his. But the eyes closed again

without a ray of consciousness, and the lips
muttered unintelligibly.
Bruce sighed.

From side to side Dick moved with a kind
of restless rhythm, sometimes speaking,
sometimes silent, breathing heavily, his brow
seemingly on tire.

Bruce tried to distinguish what he was
talking about, but could not catch the words,
only it seemed to him as though again and
again he heard the name ^^Luce" in all
kinds of tones. The night passed more
slowly than any night had ever passed
before ; he felt no inclination to slumber, no
desire to relax for one moment the almost
painful strain of attention ; once or twice he
presented the glass of lemonade to the
invalid's lips, who drank, as he did all
else, unconsciously and mechanically. And
through the long slow hours, as the night-light
sputtered, flared, and finally went out,
and the grey dawn pierced gradually
through the blinds, and threw a cold searching
light around, that terrible undertone of
incoherent, somnolent ravings, and muttering,
and broken whispers continued, rising
and falling like the threatening surge of the

sea. When morning came, Bruce saw more
clearly the ravages the fever had wrought
in his friend's countenance ; hollow-eyed,
drawn with pain, flushed with unnatural
heat, and distorted by suffering, it was hard
to recognise the features of the handsome
man, who had looked out on life with a gay
fearlessness. As soon as it was fairly light,
Mrs. Vincent came in, dressed in a loose
morning robe with a cup of some liquid in
her hand. When she beheld Bruce she
started violently, and almost dropped the
cup.

^^ You here?" she said, adding almost
fiercely, ^' Who sent for you ? ''

^^ I heard Dick was ill," answered Bruce,
rising and greeting her respectfully; '' and,
as he is my dearest friend, I came to nurse
him."

^' Without communicating with me," she
said more defiantly. Bruce made a little
bow of acquiescence. Her anger increased.

' You have been guilty of a gross impertinence
; you had better leave the house at

once."

'^ I regret to annoy you, Madam, but I
shall not leave my friend till he is better."

^^You are insolent' she said, maddened
out of all sense of self-control; ^Hhis is my
house, I order you to go''

'^ It is Dick's bailiff's house, and he is
master here ; take care, don't speak so loud,
you may disturb him, and quarrels in a sick
man's room are most unseemly."

She threw a glance of hatred towards the
bed.

'^ He won't hear, he doesn't know any one,
he will never speak coherently again. You
have come to nurse a dead man."

'^ Possibly. All the more reason why you
should not object to my offering him the
last services of which friendship is capable."
Both believed that it was as they said,
there could be no hope for Dick. The
London doctor had remarked to Mrs.
Vincent, as he pocketed his heavy fee, and
wrapped a comforter round his neck to guard
himself from the damp on his way to the
station, that 'while there is life there is
hope," but she was too good a nurse not to
understand that this was a polite condemnation
of the patient, and she took it so.
She was enraged at Bruce' s pertinacity,
while at the same time his self-possession,

and her conviction of his learning, overawed
her. She reflected that no further harm or
good could be done now, and she decided to
dissimulate her rage, and to earn Bruce's
good will by some show of attention.

'well, if you choose to stay," she said, a
little awkwardly (graciousness was at no
time Mrs. Vincent's forte), ''I suppose you
had better, but you will find it very wearisome.
He rambles so."

'' What nourishment do you give him ? "
asked Bruce, not noticing her semi-apology.


'' He will take nothing but liquids, milk
and a little beef tea," she said, holding out
the cup for inspection.

'' Thank you, I will see that he takes as
much food as possible. You must have
many duties to attend to. Leave the sickroom
to me."

'indeed! and pray how sire thou qualified?"

By the power of love, madam, of disinterested
affection, a pharmacopoeia of which
I daresay you have never heard''

Mrs. Vincent bit her thin lips. This man
was not to be deceived. He was a clever

antagonist, and would unravel her little web
of intrigue. She more than ever regretted
to be forced to leave him with Dick, and yet
how could she prevent it, as he said it was
not her house — yet ; if it were, she added
vindictively, such a fellow as he should
never darken her doors.

Do you want anything," she asked,
determined to maintain a show of authority,
^^ shall I order a room for you ? "

I want nothing but freedom, and servants
who will obey my orders. I presume
the nurse is trustworthy."

'^ Yes," muttered Mrs. Vincent meekly,
she was beginning to feel the power of a
strong and superior mind.

'' Very well. As soon as the doctor comes,
I will see him, and will then give further
orders as they may be required." He took
the cup from Mrs. Vincent's unwilling hand,
and motioned to her to withdraw.

She would fain have resisted, but she felt
that her appearance with hair untidily
fastened up, and matronly form enveloped
in a loose flannel dressing-gown that had
seen its best day, and already become a
veteran in the cause of measles and other

VOL. III. s

diseases, was more or less-unattractive, and
that she was placed in a humiliating position.
For her next contest of strength with this
calm, cold man, she must find a better vantage
ground. Mrs. Vincent despised dress,
and yet was forced to acknowledge that an
elderly woman in a faded flannel dressing-gown
lacked most of the elements of impressiveness
and authority. It was not for
nothing that the Greeks made stately Juno
wear long and flowing robes; drapery
inspires respect if it does not always
command admiration.

^' Very well, I will leave him to you for
the present, and when the doctor comes we
will consult together,'^

She laid great stress on the word
^ together'' and with this Parthian shot she
wisely left the room.

Bruce stood still a moment, the cup in his
hand. He looked critically at its appetising
contents, put his finger in, and tasted
a few drops. '' Very nasty ! '' he thought.
^'No, I had better be on the safe side."
Thus saying, he poured the cup-full of
liquid away into the slop-pail, and rang the
bell with a masterful air. Dick seemed to

be sleeping now, even the hot colloquy
between his aunt and his friend had not disturbed
him. He lay quiet, and seemed to
breathe more easily. Bruce walked to the
window, opened it, and gently raised the
blind. The sick room was stifling, but outside
the morning broke fair and bright, a
delicious fragrance of flowers and damp
earth rose from the ground; the rain had
ceased, and everything rejoiced in its freshness.
The cabbage-roses in the little garden
held glistening drops of dew in their pink
petals, and the spikes of the sweetbread
hedge were studded as with diamonds.
The birds twittered and sang, and in the
distance a cock crowed lustily. Was it now*,
perhaps for the first time, that Bruce found
leisure to admire a sunrise, and the gradual
splendid awakening into life of sleeping
nature ? He gazed for some time, a new
sense of pleasure stealing into his soul ; a
pleasure, certainly not animal, but yet which
had no connection with the intellectual joys
he had hitherto found in books. Presently
he dropped the blind and came back to the
bed. Decidedly Dick was sleeping more

s2

peacefully than before, and there was the
ghost of a smile upon his lips. At that
instant there came a knock at the door,
and a servant, putting her head in, said,
'^ If you please, sir, the doctor is come."

CHAPTER XIX.

The doctor pronounced his patient somewhat
better, though the condition of febrile
excitement he found, puzzled him.

'^ There is nothing in his state to produce
so much fever," he said; *'I cannot help
thinking that it is rather connected with
mental than bodily troubles. Do you know
if he had any great trouble weighing on this
mind ? ''

Bruce thought for an instant. ^^None
I should say, absolutely none. He was a
most fortunate man in all his circumstances."

'' Then 1 can't account for it ; there must
be some lesion that I know nothing about.
Does he talk much ; on what subjects does
his mind run ? "

*^ He mutters and talks incessantly ; but I
cannot distinguish the words."

a

Then please pay great attention to
whatever you do hear, and let me know."

'' You do not anticipate any immediate
danger ? "

endanger! There is great danger, but I
anticipate no special evil consequences if we
can keep up his strength and keep down
the fever."

'^ I shall do my best."
'' You are a great friend, I presume ? "
said the doctor, pulling out his watch.
' There is nothing like careful nursing ; we
doctors can effect but little in a case of this
sort. The nurse who is here is an excellent
person, but it will do her no harm to be kept
up to her work by a personal friend."

Then the doctor, who had his rounds to
make and could not afford to waste precious
time in pretty speeches, departed, and Bruce
felt himself charged with all the onus of
poor Dick's recovery.

Mental troubles, now what could they be ?
Dick's difficulties had lain hitherto chiefly
in money embarrassments, but those were
now removed, and at no time had such
things seriously affected his spirits. It must
be something far worse than this that disordered

his brain and kept up an unceasing
irritability. What could it be ? Bruce was
beginning to learn that life's problems are
far more intricate and puzzling than the
severest test in mathematics. When the
premises are doubtful it is not easy to argue
correctly. He pondered. Just then the
sleeper turned more quickly, and, as Bruce
bent down closer to catch the words uttered,
he distinctly heard ^^ Luce, oh my poor
Luce ! " in tones of regretful anguish.
'^ Luce ! " that had been the name then that
he thought to distinguish before. ^^ Luce ! "
why should he call on her ? Of course it
was only the broken dream of a sick man,
harking back upon the past memories of his
life. Again he heard " Don't send me
away. Luce. I am so hot and your hands
are cool." Strange recollections these !
'^ Why will you be so unselfish ? Let us go
away — no one will know — Luce, oh Luce ! "
and the passionate cry died away into a low
moan. Bruce sat motionless. The doctor
had bidden him gather the secret ; he was
merely obeying orders in Dick's own
interest. 'you said I did not love you,
poor little Luce."

Bruce shrank together ; could he be
justified in listening to talk of this kind ?

^^ And your eyes, oh, your eyes, do take
them away, they burn me; why are you so
angry ? I did my best, indeed I did my
best."

Then again Dick relapsed into silence and
Bruce sat by thinking. What strange lapses
of mind illness brought with it ! why should
Dick harp so constantly on Luce instead of
dwelling rather on the perfections of Lady
Fenchurch, the woman he had passionately
loved ? There was some rift within the
lute, some misunderstanding ; it could not be
Luce's fault, he felt sure ; to Bruce she was
a goddess who could do no wrong, and yet
not a goddess merely but the most charming
and loveable of girls. He allowed himself
to feel glad that Dick had not married her.
They were ill-matched; even with all Bruce's
affectionate infatuation for his friend he
dared not think him worthy of so precious a
jewel. The days passed. Bruce saw little
of Mrs. Vincent ; she came upstairs occasionally,
looking cross and sour ; she suggested
this and found fault with that, and
went down again more convinced than ever

in her own mind, that Bruce's assiduity and
superhuman attention would restore Dick to
life. Bruce was beginning to look like a
shadow himself, his hands grew more and
more transparent, his face thinner, but the
light in his eyes seemed to have transferred
itself from within to without ; a tender
watchfulness guarded every movement, a
solicitous anxiety provoked every comfort.
Little by little Dick grew calmer, the touch
of his friend's hand seemed to soothe and
please him. He slept oftener and for longer
intervals, and, when Bruce scanned his face
with earnest eyes it seemed to him that a
flash of recognition passed over the pate
features. Again he looked, and this time he
felt quite sure of it. A soft sigh unclosed
the lips, and faint as a breath of summer air
he caught the sound

^' Julian, is it you ? "

^^It is I, Dick. Thank God you are
better''

The waxen hand felt over the counterpane
for his, and clasped it with the loving trust
of gratitude. Then the tired head turned
itself, and Dick slept again, like the wearied
child that has said good-night to its mother,

and made its peace with all the world.
After that, every day a fresh stage towards
recovery was made. Dick spoke and moved,
though still languidly yet more naturally,
and began to converse with his friend in
quiet and cheerful tones. Bruce was
genuinely overjoyed. To him it was as
though he had suddenly emerged from some
dark tortuous cavern into the full light of
day. He had grieved so over Dick, with
the thread of his bright young life snapped
suddenly, and all the possibilities of development
and happiness cut short ; that the
abrupt change in his previsions, the sudden
leap from darkling fears to vivid hope, left
him dazed and blinded, like a half-blind
prisoner in the brilliant gleams of unaccustomed
sunshine. He nursed Dick as tenderly
as any woman, pressed on his dainty appetite
the most delicate food, and humoured his
smallest wish. His long clumsy hands, that
hitherto held only voluminous folios, or note-making
pen and pencil, learnt a new handiness.
His strength was most acceptable inlifting
the poor invalid, whose weight had
sadly dwindled from the day he rowed stroke-oar
in the Cambridge boat, and his delicacy

of touch could not have been surpassed by
that of the most skilled surgeon. The nurse
found her services almost dispensed with,
and began to ramble about the fields and
bring home bunches of wild flowers, which,
after a long period of pent-up existence in a
town hospital, seemed to her supernaturally
beautiful. Bruce, himself, rarely stirred
from the sick room. He would sit for hours
reading, while Dick slept, ready to jump up
at the smallest sound ; he had even deprived
himself voluntarily of his pipe, lest the smell
of tobacco should incommode the fastidious
invalid. Not the least of his self-denial was
comprised in the scarcity of books to which
he cheerfully resigned himself, a volume of
Alexander Barclay's '^ Ship of Rules " being
the only literature he had carried away from
his lodgings. Perhaps, next to the Bible,
the *^ Ship of Rules " is as good food for the
mind of a man cast up on the dry shore of
involuntary idleness as any other. Thence
he can view the follies, and ugliness, and
misery of the steaming hurrying waves of
the world below at his ease, and moralise in
the luxury of security.

The fools that get and the fools that give,

the fools that lie and the fools that waste ;
who has not known some, and pitied others,
and suffered under the remainder? And,
as the scholar pored over the pages adorned
with droll and grotesque woodcuts, his spirit
grew calm and resigned. Luce was his
beacon-star, but only a star, intangible and
afar off.

While Bruce thus steeped his mind in the
sweets of study, and sought to reduce passion
to its divinest element, the element of
respectful worship, he noticed with surprise
that Dick's recovery proceeded very slowly.
The great and beneficial change that had
appeared at first did not maintain itself, and
seemed to give place to a stationary condition.
Dick's sleep was fairly good, his
appetite tolerable, and yet he did not improve.
He had moments of intense and
unreasonable depression, he would turn and
start and cry out in his sleep, and lie for
hours with his eyes fixed on a particular
spot in the wall-paper, as though he had
neither strength nor inclination for more.
Bruce thought again of the mental troubles,
and one day he ventured to speak.

'' Dick, my boy," he said, sitting very

near him and watching his face carefully,
*' what is the matter with you ? where are
your old spirits ? ''

'' How can a fellow have any spirits after
such a confounded illness as mine ? When I
can use my limbs and get about I shall be
all right."

'' Dick, why don't you confide in me ?
why dont you tell me your secrets? — perhaps
I could help you ; I am sure you are unhappy."


'' No, I'm only bored, and so must you be,
Julian. I declare you never go out ; why
don't you take a walk ? "

'' You are trying to evade my question;
you look troubled, it is more than pain that
worries you."

Dick's brow puckered. He was silent a
minute, then he said, '^ I see I was wrong,
Julian, we can't live our own lives — and I
know it now it's too late."
How too late ? "

I'm an unlucky devil," his voice grew
hard and bitter, ^^ everything I touch goes
wrong''

'' Dick, you are a little unjust — at least,
you have faithful friends."

270 Creatures or Clay.

'' 1 know." Dick took Bruce's hand and
wrung it. *^ It's no good talking — by-the-bye,
did I rave in my delirium ? — one talks
such infernal nonsense at those times."

You did talk," confessed Bruce, measuring
out his confidences with his eye on Dick,
as a doctor feels his patient's pulse. '^ You
talked chiefly of one person

'' Of one person —

^' By which I conclude that person was
dear to you."

'' Not a bit of it, that does not follow at
all."

strangely enough, her name seems to be
Luce''

Dick coloured violently. " What a fool a
man is when he is ill ! "

^' A fool ? that is a matter of opinion.
Tell me what is there between you and Miss
Windermere ? "

' There is nothing. I dare say she was
right ; she made me pay the penalty of my
own folly ; she would not marry me, you
know. I told her I did not care for her." His
tones were hurried and angry and broken,
and the flush in his face continued.

^^ And you — love her now." Bruce spoke

with calm precision, but every word seemed
like a knife cutting into his heart. His
pearl, his precious one — how could he bear
to talk of her thus ? He was like a man ina
dream assisting at his own execution.

'eyes," Dick said, dreamily, the flush
dying away, '' I suppose I do. I am always
thinking of her now ; she was the only unselfish
woman I ever met, and I can't forget
her."

^' Why don't you try?"

'' Oh, what does it matter ? — if I could only
see her once — whenever I shut my eyes her
face haunts me, it is full of reproach, and
oh ! so sad — and sometimes I think she is
quite near, and she seems kind, and then 1
wake and it is only a delusion."

'' And then you cry out and have wakeful
nights, and the fever goes on."

eyes," Dick sighed, sand there is nothing
to be done. Go on reading, this is idle
talk."

Bruce closed his book, keeping one finger
between the leaves. '^ No, I think I will talk
a little longer about these strange fancies
of yours. Do you think if you saw her and
could speak to her, you would be happier."

'^ Yes, it is funny, isn't it ? you know that
I am such a matter-of-fact chap, and I keep
feeling as if I wanted her to forgive me — I
behaved awfully bad to her."

'' Perhaps she would not like to see you."
Bruce rose and walked to the window.

'^ Oh, she would — I am certain she loves
me still — and she is so unselfish."

Bruce stood with his back to the bed.
His lips quivered, but he was determined to
show no emotion. Dick must never guess
his secret. He remained silent a moment.

^^ What is the matter, Julian ? " said the
voice from the bed. *^Do you think me a
fool, why don't you answer ? "

'' I don't think a man is a fool who loves
wisely and well," said Julian, in somewhat
shaky tones, but he did not turn his head.
With a swift rush came swooping down upon
him the great temptation of his life, hurrying
him to a decision, holding him to his
choice as between the grip of a sharp pair of
pincers. He had learnt the meaning of
many things, he had studied deeply in the
book of history, he was now to learn the
meaning of friendship, to be instructed in
the deepest recoils of the human heart. He

stood at the window and idly watched the
girl gathering lavender sprigs in the garden.
Lavender, to put away among precious
stored-up things, to give a sweet odour of
the bygone summer and leave a lingering
memory of warmth and life. Lavender!
So be it. He turned to the bed. His face
was very pale and his teeth were tightly
closed. " Dick, my boy," he said, trying to
speak cheerfully, " you mustn't be so morbid ;
all this will conduce to your happiness, I am
sure ; now lie down and try to get a sleep.
To-morrow I am going for a long walk.
You are nearly well now, and don't require
me."

VOL. III. T

CHAPTER XX.

That is not the way' said Dick, as the
nurse in Bruce' s absence tried to rearrange
his pillows, '' I like my head higher." He
pushed feebly with his hand and sank back
exhausted. '^ Never mind, that will do."
The nurse, believing that the heat had made
her patient fractious, forbore to press the
matter, and retired into a corner with her
sewing. The day had been sultry, black
thundery clouds swept over the sky, and nota
breath stirred the leaves, a sullen hush
covered all things, and in Dick's small room,
even with the window wide open and the
Venetian blinds closed, the air was oppressive
to suffocation. He had been alone with
the nurse all day ; he missed his friend's
company extremely, and cherished a kind of
angry bitterness at being thus deserted. He

had tried to be cheerful, but now he was
only hot and tired and nervously depressed.
Like the horse in his weary mill-round his
thoughts ran their usual circle ; he pictured
Luce to himself as she stood beside him that
spring morning when they parted, with the
faint sweet smell of the violets and primroses
around and the dew-laden sprays touching
their foreheads. His fancy ran riot, he
remembered the warmth of her kisses, and
the deep love in her voice. He remembered
how carelessly he had accepted that great
gift and how angrily he had left her. Where
was she now ; was he forgiven ? A slight
rustling noise startled him, the nurse got up
and went to the door, which was hidden
from him by a screen.

^' Nurse, what is it ? " he heard her return,
and shut his eyes wearily, trying to keep
his dream of that fair spring morning ;
'' what is it ? I don't want anything''

A soft cool hand was laid gently on his
impatient fingers, and a breath of the sweet-scented
spring air seemed wafted over him.
He opened his eyes, surprised and somewhat
less irritable, and met Luce's soft and
earnest glances.

^ Luce, you here, why — am I dreaming —
oh ! if you are a dream — don't leave me,
don't," he said, stretching out his hands.

'^ I am no dream, Dick — look at me."

Then he timidly took her hand again,
feasting his starving eyes on her dear blushing
face — fascinated, soothed. Forgetting
all but that she was near, he drew her slowly,
closer, closer, down towards him, till her
cool, fragrant lips rested on his hot, parched
mouth.

' Luce, my little love, the one unselfish
woman in the world." Then he put her
away a little and looked at her. Luce did
not speak, but happiness shone in her shining
glances, and love played about the sensitive
corners of her smiling mouth.

^^ It is too good to be true — did I summon
you by wishes, dear ? ''

^^Mr. Bruce summoned me," said Luce,
slipping down beside the bed on her knees,
and laying her cheek bashfully on Dick's
hand. ^^ I came at his request."

^^ Dear good fellow, where is he ? I should
like to thank him."

I want no thanks," said Bruce, approaching
from his hiding-place behind the

curtain, " but I have something to give you."
As he spoke he handed him a letter and a
small case wrapped in white paper.

^' The necklace'' cried Dick; ^^ where
was it found ? "

^^Mrs. Vincent had it in her dressing-case;
she stole it from you, and in rescuing her
jewels from the fire you rescued it also, and
saved your own reputation."

Dick could not speak. The surprise and
gratitude he felt almost choked him.

'' And this letter'' he tore it open with
feverish anxiety, read, and handed it to
Bruce.

'free!" he said, leaning back satisfied
on his pillows ; '^ thank God, free'"

The letter was from Lady Fenchurch,
releasing him from his engagement.

'^I know," she said, ^^ that you have
ceased to love me ; and, as I find Mr. Peter
Fenchurch a most charming person, and he
is anxious to marry me, it will be more convenient
and agreeable to all if I return you
your word, and tell you, you are free."

Bruce read without speaking, folded the
letter, and glanced towards the bed.

Luce's little brown head lay pillowed in

Dick's arms, as he bent over her, with an
expression of rapt happiness shining in his
eyes. '' My love," he "said, in a low voice,
'^ my little love, kiss me; now indeed I
believe in a good woman's heart."

Bruce turned away. He dared not break
the silence of this solemn moment, but a
swallow flying past the window at that
instant might have seen that his face was
pale, and down the haggard white cheek a
great tear rolled. For he had dreamed a
dream ; he had conversed with a vision of
infinite bliss, and seen opening vistas of
irradiating light. But the light had faded
into darkness, and the angels had soared
aloft as he closed for ever the glowing pages
of the book of life and love, and turned
himself again, a cold and solitary man, to
the stern uncompromising black-letter of
duty and self-sacrifice.

THE END.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET,
