OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

I

o *

BY

BAEBAEA Elbow

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME I.

MACMILLAN AND CO.



2X$

r

Part L

^

n

^

Q


VOL. I.

B

Thou art what I would be, yet only seem ;
Thou art my heaven and my hell ;
Thou art my ever-living judgment-day.'

R. "W. Gilder.

A face at once young, grand, and beautiful, where, if there
is any melancholy, it is no feeble passivity, but enters into the
foreshadowed capabilities of heroism.' — George Eliot.

Between Genoa and Florence is one of the most
beautiful bits of the far-famed Cornice Road. On
leaving the superb city the railway winds through
orange and pomegranate groves, along oleander
hedges, across narrow valleys made by hills
which are clothed in olive orchards and crowned
by Italian pines. It rises and falls obedient to
the dictates of nature, yielding to obstructions
only to conquer them, and now runs by the
foaming Mediterranean, and again crosses a secret
chasm at a dizzy altitude. High crags,
pedestals for single trees, rise abruptly from the
waves that dash against their base ; while on

some of the larger rocks castles are built, or
gray walled villages, with a bit of beach beneath
where fishing-boats lie in deep colouring of red
and brown. The people run out in peasant array
at the sound of the engine-bell, and, on one of
the first winter days in 187 — , the inhabitants
of the rocky fastnesses caught a glimpse of a girl's
face which seemed a human type akin to that of
the landscape. It was not lacking in strength,
but showed a pre-eminent refinement, which was
full of passionate sensitiveness. The features
were finely cut, and the complexion of a clear
pallor, which made more forceful the long eyebrows
slightly curving over large hazel eyes, and
the golden-brown hair which was drawn simply
away from a forehead capable of much serenity.
In animation the changes of warm sunshine and
soft shadow which characterised the view were
here also ; but in repose a sadness of expression
settled upon the face, often seen in countenances
denoting at once youth and earnestness. Today,

however, there was added an anxiety which
the beauty of the view could not dissipate.

This was her twentieth birthday, and standing
by the carriage window she looked off over
the water to the far horizon, trying in vain to
pierce its pearly veil, as if thus she might seethe
future. She had endeavoured to throw aside
the vague feeling which weighed upon her, but
no effort could overcome an oppressive dread,
the effects of which troubled her aunt, who was
watching her, Mrs. Trescott, the only other
occupant of the carriage.

1 Come here, Beth, and tell me what is the
matter,' she said at last. f Must birthday
thoughts be so very melancholy ? I wanted you
to have a happy day, and you said nothing would
gratify you so much as reaching Florence. Did
you overtax your strength ? Are you too tired,
dear ? '

The last sentence was added with increased
anxiety in noticing the jasmine pallor and an

unwonted weariness in the eyes Beth turned
towards her.

No, indeed, dear auntie answered the girl,
seating herself, however. ' I am not more tired
than I naturally must be after the long journey.'

Well, then, what is it, pet ? The day is perfect,
the views lovely, and you are on your way
to the place where you say you have longed to
be all the year : our own rooms at Florence.
Don t have secrets from me. dear ; why should
your birthday be sad % '

Not sad, auntie ; only ' She moved so

as to turn her face away before she continued.
It is very foolish of me, I know, but I can't
remember how many years it is that I have felt
the decade opening to-day was to be of great
importance to me. I am sure some decisive
test of character will come soon, which I fear,
I greatly fear, I may not bear worthily.'

Her voice stopped suddenly. There had
been an unusual quiver of feeling in it from the

first, which now increased so as to make speech
dangerous. She was not given to superstitious
fancies, but this had grown in her until it seemed
to cast a long shadow over the coming years.

Mrs. Trescott was of a much less reasonable
temperament than her niece, but she was also
prone to think that the * feelings ' of others were
not to be relied upon, whatever her own might
be ; so she only thought, ' The child is too tired,'
and said in a cheery tone :

Why, what a foolish girl ! You are always
lecturing me for putting faith in such nonsense,
and here you are twice as silly, I'm sure. Besides,
I haven't had the training of you for nothing.
If you did have a " test," you would come out
of it with flying colours. / am not afraid.'

But that only makes me more so,' answered
the girl, with increased earnestness. ' You have
too much confidence in me, auntie ; I have
never done anything to deserve it. Don't you
see How can you tell what will be my

temptations, or how I will resist them ? No

one can. And so Well, it is like a cloud

between me and the sun.'

Leave it to the sun to dissipate, Dolly.
Look out, and enjoy yourself. It does no good
to brood over a thing in this fashion

Probably not said the girl, somewhat
drearily. She was half disappointed in her
aunt's careless answers. The presentiment
weighed too heavily for her not to desire a
firm support, in recognition of a possible failure,
and helpful words to reinforce her already unnerved
strength. But Mrs. Trescott did not
understand the inner workings of this girl's
mind, which she thought she knew through and
through. She saw Beth's rare tears were near
the surface, however, and poured out a glass of
sherry, saying :

Here, you will find this much more palatable
than swallowing unshed tears ; and as to crying
Why, if you cry to-day, it would be a

dreadful reproach to me, for I should know you
were just worn out, and that I ought not to
have done as you teased me to, — which I always
do, you little witch ! '

The stimulant did Beth good, and the confessing
of her trouble also. It looked sillier now
that it had been spoken, and her aunt left her
no time to brood, but began to talk of other
things.

Don't you wish you knew what I am going
to give you to-day?' she asked presently.
'You couldn't have lovelier associations than
these. Just look there ! '

The train was moving with exceeding care
across a great chasm, bridged by a natural arch,
hundreds of feet above the sea. As Beth leaned
out she could see nothing except the perpendicular
cliffs and the leaping, restless waves far
below.

It was a dizzy sight, and fascinating, as such
sights often are. The girl was tired and excited.

BETHESDA. [part l

She felt an intense desire to fall through the air,
and touch the water beneath. The longing took
her breath quite away. She gave a little gasp,
and her head sank on the window-sill. Then,
through the rush in her ears and the sound of
the quickening train, she heard her aunt's voice,
as from a distance, in alarmed accents.

'Beth! Beth! be careful! What is the
matter ? '

'Nothing she contrived to say after a
moment. 'Just let me be quiet.' Then presently
: ' I suppose I was dizzy. But it was a
strange feeling.'

1 Change seats with me,' said Mrs. Trescott
emphatically. ' You must not look out of the
window. Here is your present instead.'

A ring ? Oh, it is beautiful. I never saw
one like it.'

There isn't such another in all the world ! '
exclaimed Mrs. Trescott. ' We tired ourselves
to death hunting for something, and this, at last,

just pleased me. Monsieur (listen discovered it
at a queer place way down in the city, he said.
He brought it for me to see, and I took it without
more ado. I think it is just perfect.'

'I like it,' said Beth, in a tone of thorough
satisfaction. ' It is becoming, too ; but look
inside.' There were a number of Arabic characters
clearly engraved. ' Can you read it ? Try.'

After turning it around several times, Beth
deciphered : ' Let not grass grow on the path of
love — or friendship.' 'The same word means
both, I believe.'

Brava ! You hardly need such an admonition,
however. I now Well, my way is

best after all. When a friendship once commences
to languish let it go. No amount of
galvanism will make it lifelike. Still, one might
afford to pull up a weed now and then in the
pathway, I daresay. The best way, though, is
to travel it often and crush the seeds down.'

'We won't let any seeds have a chance to

BETHESDA. [part i.

sprout in our path, will we, auntie ? ' said Beth
fondly. ' But how did you know-what it was ?
Have you been studying Arabic too ? '

Oh, my dear ! imagine me ! No. M. d'Isten
translated it for me. He was born in Algeria,
you know.'

1 1 didn't know it.'

Yes, he is the son of the Marquis de F ,

lieutenant-general of the forces there.'

Indeed ? ' exclaimed Beth, in pleased surprise.
' Why, the Marquis was the one who sent
us our escort, and was so very kind to us, although
we missed our opportunity of seeing him. He is
a man of whom one hears nothing but praise.
Can M. d'Isten be his son ? '

I don't see why you should be so very much
astonished. That is the precise man I should
have said would be Bene d'Isten's father.'

There was a slight hauteur in her manner
which Beth did not notice at the moment.

I thought you had quarrelled,' she said,

and that you did not like him so well as at
first.'

I don't. He has disappointed me.' A shadow
crossed Mrs. Trescott's face as she spoke ; a
shadow of mingled pride, offence, and repression.
She was exercising unusual self-control.

•' So he is an Algerine,' said Beth, with interest.
1 And the wife of the Marquis, was she a native
or French ? "

She was an Orientale, a Christian of the open
Bible, as they call it. Her son always speaks of
her with much reverence.'

1 And of his father too, I'm sure.'

He is proud of him, but I fancy the Marquis
is a cold man.'

'Perhaps, but every one admires him,' exclaimed
Beth eagerly. ' He has, they say,
the keenest sensitiveness to honour. A true
Bayard. '

Hum ! ' was the sceptical comment of Mrs.
Trescott.

His son is not like him in that, then V

I thought so — once, but that passed, as all
such ideas do.'

She spoke bitterly, but Beth, used to frank
confidence between them, asked :

What happened ? You never told me the
cause of the trouble.'

I never shall, probably,' was the unexpected
rebuff. 'He failed in respect to me. That is
enough for my niece to know.'

Beth sat a moment dumb with surprise.
Then you do not expect to meet him again, I
suppose she said presently, and Mrs. Trescott
answered, with assumed carelessness :

Oh, yes ; we may meet. I don't know that
I should be angry with him now ; only, we are
not friends.'

A fine bit of sarcasm,' thought the girl, but
she exclaimed frankly :

1 Well, I hope we won't meet ! '

Why not V retorted Mrs. Trescott sharply.

I never fancied him from what you yourself
told me of him when you liked him best,' said
Beth, with some spirit. ' I tried to hold myself
neutral until I should see him as long as he was
your friend ; yet when I heard that I should not
have to know him it was a relief.'

Mrs. Trescott looked at her with contradictory
meanings in her face.

Yet you admire his father so much ! ' she
said at last.

They are very different apparently.' After
a pause the girl added in a firm tone : ' Didn't
you say M. d'Isten was married?'

Yes.'

Have you met his wife V

No; she does not live in Paris.'

And does he live there all the year ? '

As far as I know. But you needn't cross-question
me any further. It is a disagreeable
subject. You haven't thanked me for your
ring yet.'

Ah,' said her niece, with a smile like a sunbeam,
' it is what I most desired.'

She took her aunt's hand, and kissed her
wrist above the glove. All the constraint in
Mrs. Trescott's manner vanished.

That is pretty thanks, dear. I am glad you
have the rirlg. It seemed to belong to you from
the first.'

It was a heavy hoop of yellow gold, with a
leaf lying on it, against which was a ruby rose
with a diamond in its heart.

I wonder who it was made for V mused the
girl, turning it from side to side so that the gems
should catch the light. ' Perhaps for some
sultana who wore it in the harem, where she was
for ever queen. Perhaps for some Christian
maiden, whose lover gave her this as a betrothal
ring ; that diamond might be the virgin who was
entrapped in the folds of his heart. Or perhaps
the gem might be a tear, too — it was the
symbol of a love which should last through the

circle of eternity, even though grief lay in its
midst

She looked up smiling, a little gravely.

You romantic child !' laughed Mrs. Trescott.
That last supposition would only be thought of
by one as foolish as you. But dream away as
much as you like, so long as you don't dream
anything sad. I can't have my present bring
you sorrow even in fancy, sweet.'

No danger. It is too lovely for that.'

The rest of the journey passed in comparative
silence. Mrs. Trescott was reading the last
crowned French novel; Beth was thinking, —
rather dreaming. Her mind wandered back to
the broken home in Massachusetts ; to the sister
who was her one youthful, earnest companion ;
to the aunt and uncle with whom this sister
lived ; while she and the aunt who had brought
her up wandered over the face of the earth, and
found only occasional oases of rest, as they would
now find a few months' quiet in Florence.

VOL. I. C

And meanwhile under all her musings lay the
dull, haunted feeling which, ghost-like, vanished
when she tried to find its substance, and, without
words, made her understand that the future was
in its power ; she could not escape it. Her
mental horizon reminded her of the desert she
had so lately traversed. Long sable dunes
sweeping away, with no boundary but the sky ;
waves of sand, changing under the wind, to break
only into other tawny waves, and, while changing,
ever the same.

The desert had made a great impression upon
her. Its silence, its weird immensity, its burning
suns and wondrous stars, had all wrought their
influence upon her. She had come to understand
why the Arabs were fatalists there ; would this
shadowy future teach her to be one ?

She was roused from her reveries by the sight
of the Flower City beneath them. They had
crossed the last pass of the Apennines, and were
striking down into the valley. As Beth saw the

town which she dearly loved, where many happy
hours had been spent, and friends would soon
know of their unexpected arrival, she regained
something of her usual spirits ; and her eyes lost
all their sadness as the well-known buildings
came near, the Lily Tower and the grand
cathedral conspicuous above the closely-packed
houses.

1 Isn't it the loveliest city in the world?' she
exclaimed. ' See ! there is the river, and our
house. I can even catch the reflection of the
windows ! It's like coming home ; it is our
heart's home, isn't it, auntie V

'How would you like to live here always?'
asked Mrs. Trescott, looking up at the girl, as
she stood with her hands clasped through the
door-strap, her slender figure swaying pliantly.
Margaret could come over, and we all live
here together. You don't care for America
much.'

*' But I do care for persons there. Margaret

never could leave Aunt Agatha ; and, besides,
she could not be happy here. They think we
lead aimless lives.'

I am sure, with your music, and now your
writing, you do more than they do ! And you
could not be here at all, but for me. However,
I was not serious. Of course, America is the
place to live in.'

But we have this winter, at least, in dear
Florence !' exclaimed Beth. ' Aren't you glad ?'

Yes, I like Italy. I hope it may be a very
happy year to you,' she added tenderly. ' We
have much to be thankful for ; you were so ill a
year ago, and now you are almost well again.'

Quite well, auntie,' corrected Beth. ' You
know we are going to forget I am not a Samson,
and try gaiety fearlessly. But, dear,' and her
voice grew sweet and grave, ' most of all, I want
to make you happy. You have been so good
to me !'

Mabel Trescott's answer was a warm pressure

of Beth's hand, but nothing more was said, for
the train now puffed slowly into the station.

A few moments later they were rolling over
the clean streets, Beth recognising each landmark
with affectionate pride, and admiring anew the
palaces which raise themselves, ' by three long-drawn
breaths,' higher than any houses in Europe.
In one of these was the suite they had made into
a home. The windows looked out in front between
stately houses, on to the Arno, and olive-clothed
hills beyond, now crimsoned by the
setting sun. On the other side the apartment
opened into a half-wild garden, where the ilex
alleys and measured parterres were overgrown
with ivy and clambering roses.

As the delighted servants rushed out through
the medieval gateway to kiss the hands of their
care signore, Beth felt a glow of pleasure which
warmed her heart. She ran lightly up the
marble staircase, and, greeting the padrone with
a glad nod, went on ahead of him into the sala.

How familiar everything was ! There was
the same triangular fireplace in the corner, where
wood was already burning ; the same confusion
of tables and sofas, etageres, and easels ; the
same shadowy Rembrandt and glowing Titian ;
and the painted Aurora still floated among her
substantial clouds on the high ceiling. Also —
yes, surely — there was her favourite fragrance of
tea-roses permeating the air.

Who could have sent these ? ' she exclaimed,
bending over a bowlful of the creamy beauties.
The beaming padrone bowed profoundly in the
doorway as he answered :

We Tuscan have good memories, signorina
mia.'

6 You don't mean you remembered my birthday?'
she cried, her dark eyes shining. She gave
the old man her hand : ' Mille grazie, signore.'

Ah, signora,' he said, lifting her fingers to
his lips, ' no one could forget your sweet patience
last year. It does an old man's heart good to

see ) r ou well, and that you care for us still,
although you have been far over the waters

1 There is nothing like it there she answered,
with a little decisive gesture. And then Mrs.
Trescott coming in, and business usurping attentions,
Beth slipped off alone into her rose boudoir.

Here, too, all was familiar, and doubly dear.
By the fire was the chaise tongue, on which she
had passed days and weeks during the languor of
convalescence. A buhl cabinet stood opposite
the window, and above it hung an inspired sibyl,
in the full light of the great window, whose
curtains made all one end of the room a mass of
snowy draperies.

Leaning against the casement, and looking
out into the twilight garden, Beth said earnestly:

I have conquered much in this room ; I will
trust I shall more.'

Not suffered, or endured, but conquered, washer
thought.

A few hours later Mrs. Trescott had retired,

and the moon had risen, and was sending a
silver flood through one of the great arched
windows into the sola. Presently Beth lifted the
curtain of the little study, and came out into the
dim room. She wanted space around her. She
needed to breathe freely before she could rest.

The light from the half-shaded door made buta
faint impression on the shadowy vastness of
the apartment, but the effect of the moonlight
on the indistinct masses of furniture and glimmering
marbles pleased Beth's mood. She was
impressionable, and the memory of this being
the house where Dante's Beatrice used to live
came back to her now with a thrill of delight.

She went and seated herself on the wide
window-ledge in the full shower of moonbeams.
With the pure outline of her uplifted face, and
her sweeping white draperies, she might have
been taken for the mystic maiden of whom she
thought. The ring still glowed on her hand like
a drop of blood, but she had forgotten it.

"What a glorious destiny it was to lead such
a man through heaven ! ' she was saying to herself.
'The highest a woman could have. No,
there was Mary, she was blessed among women,
and yet, how she suffered ! But who would not
bear the agony for the joy of giving food to
hungry humanity ? Nothing is too hard to
undergo, if we let it only make us nobler.'

She spoke bravely, half aloud. It was an
answer to the fear that had been haunting her.
She met it now fairly. It might do its worst ;
good would ensue.

Thus exorcised, the spirit left her, and her
thoughts wandered to other things. The year
had been a happy one, yet in many ways serious.
A man had loved her, and she had liked him.
She had tried to do more. Her aunt pleaded
his cause ; his mother also. But it is a trying
situation for any man to attempt to be the ideal
of an intelligent girl during the years when her
ideas are constantly changing. Idealising men

is the next step to idealising dolls. An enthusiastic
girl can make an idol out of a stick,
but she won't worship it unless she believes
in it. This Beth had not been able to do.
Her aunt's influence was all towards making a
marriage on the basis of esteem and liking.
Mrs. Eandleth's (an Englishwoman) had, of
course, been the same. Beth did like Clarence,
but she never felt the indescribable repulsion
from him so much as when she admired him
most, and saw the most reason in her friends'
urgings.

It wore upon her, delicate as she was from
her long illness, and she accepted an invitation
from Aunt Agatha, and went home suddenly,
on a few months' visit, leaving Mrs. Trescott fora
summer trip with friends.

It had all become clear to her there ; how, she
could not exactly say. Perhaps it was being in
the truly conjugal atmosphere that Mr. and Mrs.
Stanhope gave to their home. Perhaps it was

the awakening of her national independence
within her. Whatever was the cause, Clarence
was quietly made to understand that there was
no hope of her yielding, and she returned to
Europe fancy free.

But the new key which she had struck in
touching American ideas and customs, after her
long residence abroad, — if flitting can be so called,
and which had seemed harsh at the time,

echoed, unconsciously to herself, through old
associations now renewed. She found a difference
in opinion between herself and her aunt
which she had never noticed before. She discovered
that the unprogressive actions and
notions of the conservative old world were less
sympathetic to her than they had been. Perhaps
this grew more rapidly from the force of
contrast, during her travels in Spain, where
traditionary ideas are most blindly held, and
Algeria, where ideas of any kind seem a thing of
the forgotten past. Moreover, being separated

from one who had been accustomed to unquestioning
obedience from her, and who never hesitated
with advice or commands, gave her an
opportunity of developing independence which
she needed.

Her sister Margaret, with her radical adhesion
to her own principles and opinions, helped her
too. She wished now she could be more with
her sister. It was an influence which, though
silent, was thousand-tongued. There was no
one to rival her in Beth's heart. To her aunt
she was devotedly attached, but her sister was
closer, indeed thoroughly at one with her. As

for lovers Well, Beth had often asserted,

as many girls of high ideals do in this age, her
conviction that she would never marry. Yet
she was always, half consciously, expecting the
demi-god who would rout her conviction, and
prove that she knew nothing of what she said.

Meantime her heart slept, as did nature
around her under the starry, purple sky. Presently

the dawn would come ; and what would
the light awaken that now was wrapped in dewy
silence ? It was winter now ; the plant was
there, but no bud ; what fruit, then, would ripen
in the summer sunlight \

She sitter in a silence of her own ;

Behind her, on the ground, a red rose lies ;

Her thinking brow is bent, nor doth arise

Her gaze from that shut book whose word unknown

Her firm hands hide from her.'

R. W. Gilder.

It was a glorious day in early February.
Already spring was making itself felt in the
subtle excitant of the air, and showing itself
in the crocuses and wild hyacinths. The trees
were perforce letting fall the yellow leaves of
last year, because of the swelling buds that
came to replace them. There is no use exercising
tenacity when the inner growth says —
Past.

In the old garden behind celestial Beatrice's
earthly home the grass was fresh and short,

the roses were beginning; to bud, the air was
fragrant, and birds were wooing one another
among the branches. Bethesda Hamilton, of
course, was there in the heart of it all. She
was devoted to the picturesque spot, with its
cacti-topped walls, opening to let one see the
river and hills and far-reaching valley. Often
she would lie for hours on the sod looking and
dreaming.

For the time it satisfied her. She could
look at those far-away hills, and the time-toned
towers, and the shimmering olive groves, until
she seemed to feel what they felt, coming curiously
near to nature. She could listen to the
birds, and the children's voices, and the chimes
of sacred bells, until they made a rhythm within
her, to which every pulse beat musically, and
each ruddy drop flowed in tune.

So there she was this morning, secluded and
yet open to sky and air, when Mrs. Trescott
spied her blue gown on the grass, and came outwith

a letter in her hand. Beth was immediately
all animation. She sprang up and ran
to meet her aunt.

A letter for me ? ' she cried. ' From Margaret
1 '

'From somebody you may yet like better,'
said Mabel.

1 As if that could be ! Oh, from Clarence ! '
Her voice fell with such a tone of disappointment
that Mrs. Trescott laughed.

He would be flattered ! '

Is this all ? ' asked Beth.

Yes ; the mail was evidently absorbed in
bringing you that. I hope it is worth it.'

She waited, strolling here and there, as if she
expected Beth to read it, but the girl was not in
the mood.

Presently Mabel disappeared again into the
house, and Beth was left alone to her disturbed
reverie. It was indeed disturbed. The restlessness
and sweet pain of spring had come closer to

her now. It was hardly sweet, it was so keen.
She threw herself on the grass again, and pressed
close to the earth to still this uneasiness — was it
of craving or regret ?

After a little she took out the letter and read
it. It was a manly note ; only a few earnest
words from one who felt he had a right to assure
her of his steadfast devotion since he claimed
nothing in return ; except, indeed, the encouragement
her purity lent to every one, to try to
make his life better worth living, as the memory
of her was helping him to do.

It touched Beth deeply. She would have
given much had she been able to return Clarence
Eandleth's affection. The delight she would
give, the rest she would feel, appealed to her
strongly. The lack of stability in the circumstances
around her had grievously influenced her
character. There was not a side on which her
nature did not reach out for something to which

she could vow and keep fidelity ; and her out-vol.
i. D

stretched arms found nothing — her hands closed
only on empty air.

Meantime, within the convex mirror which
was turned to the world on every side there
grew a personality as surely, if silently, as
crystals form in the still sea caves. And this
personality had a magnetism which no one
understood, least of all, perhaps, herself. She
hardly knew of its existence, except when something
rose within her that flung aside all outward
interference and asserted itself supreme, as
had been the case in her final decision about this
lover.

Instinct was strong within her to defend the
inner being ; it was an imperious instinct ; she
never could definitely belie it. Those who
passed the glassy walls of her courteous reserve
and were admitted into her friendship found
themselves in a dim mystic city, where they
hardly knew what were their own shadows and
what the natural inhabitants. Forms of light

and forms of darkness were there, and all freely
to be known. But in the centre was a palace
surrounded by a wide stream, which no one
could either fathom or bridge. Here the being,
who frightened Beth herself at times, lived in
solitude, working silently, feeling passionately.
She would look forth at those who stood on the
other side and dipped impotent feet into the
deep waves, scrutinising them, expectant of the
one who was to cross in triumph, and to whom
she would gladly relinquish her sovereignty.
But she was not to be deceived ; and to all as
yet, plead as Beth might, she turned an averted
face.

Beth ! Girlie ! ' called Mrs. Trescott.

Beth looked up and saw her aunt in the
window, and behind her a man's eager face. It
was too eager for Beth not to be pleased, for
each woman loves the true love in her lover,
even if unrecognised. Yet she rose reluctantly.
It was charming out, and she shrank from the

thought of sitting under this artist's eyes, which
had subtly changed of late, and held a light she
now half liked, now wholly disliked, to meet.
But it was all so unsubstantial that she could
find no adequate reason for refusing to do what
he pleaded for persistently, and which she knew
he had now again come to press.

So she lingered in answering her aunt's summons,
and broke off a spray of the new leaves
and passed it over her hand again and again,
hesitating to enter. Thus hesitating Signor
Straora found her.

He was a fine-looking man, with a strong
face and deferential manners. He approached
Beth now, bowing profoundly.

1 Ah, signore, you thought I was very dilatory
? To tell the truth, I was afraid to go in.'

Thank you,' he said gravely.

Why does that please you ? ' she asked in
surprise. ' Do you like to be feared 1 '

To-day it promises me much.'

1 What does it promise you ? ' Her eyes fell
after a glance at his face. She began to guess.

It promises me that you have forgiven whatever
my offence may have been he said eagerly,
drawing a step nearer. ' It promises me that
you will not be obdurate ; that I shall see you
in my studio ; that your kindness will intercede
for me ; that '

1 Perhaps, signore,' said Beth demurely ; ' perhaps
it promises too much. Let us go in.'

The sake looked unusually attractive in its
shadowy grace, coming from the noonday light,
which had grown almost too intense. Mrs.
Trescott was sewing in a recess, willing to leave
Beth and Signor Straora undisturbed. She was
the most lenient of chaperones ; indeed, she
tried to escape being one at all, she so detested
the role.

But Beth intended to have all the protection
she could. She seated herself close beside her
aunt, and motioned Signor Straora to a chair not

very near. She was determined to be unapproachable.
Promises, indeed ! they were all
the other way.

Was it hot out ? ' said Mrs. Trescott carelessly,
looking tropical enough with her warm
colouring and dark curls against the bright
window. She was a fair-skinned brunette, with
eyes which sometimes go with this anomalous
type, never seeming to be of the same colour
twice, but varying from the luminous darkness
of emotion to the light gray of indifference, or
the sunny laughter of teasing moods ; at all
times a surprise. Signor Straora thought he
had never seen a finer contrast than between
her and her niece.

Too warm in February, auntie ? It could
not be for me even in summer, but ?

There was too much nature around to
entertain Monsieur artist, eh ? ' said Mabel ina
teasing tone.

Beth rose a trifle abruptly. Her aunt ought

to support her, she thought ; two against one
was unfair.

1 If I am a true artist nothing could please
me so well as nature,' Signor Straora said meanwhile,
addressing himself entirely to Mabel.
1 A bit of garden like that in which I found the
signorina would do for one of Raphael's backgrounds.'
He shaded his eyes and looked out
into the brilliant atmosphere.

Tell me said Beth, approaching him, now
that he was impersonally occupied, ' what do
you think of this engraving of Santa Anna from
da Vinci % '

1 It is an excellent engraving,' replied the
artist critically.

You speak as if you did not like the
subject.'

■ Xor do I. Can an artist expect to take a
face, which is only clay modelled by character,
and use the form without giving the soul's expression
? In all Leonardo's paintings I see the

woman who broke his heart and ruined his
honour

He laid the engraving aside with a slight
gesture of dislike. Beth bent over it with new
interest.

Nay she said eagerly, ' I thought you artists
held that forms are supreme ; that character cannot
make a plain face beautiful, or a beautiful
one ugly

Signora said Straora, smiling, ' you are
giving artists credit for less discrimination than
most men, and it is our boast that we have
more. Give me a pure-hearted woman with no
deformity but plainness, as you say, and I could
produce you a Virgin that would not shock you.
There would be nothing in her face which would
be inharmonious with pure beauty. But a
woman such as Donna Lisa — it is blasphemy

Beth was smiling up at him with shining
eyes. This met her ideal expectation ; it was
what she wished might be.

Ah, signorina ! ' exclaimed the artist, suddenly
fervent ; ' come but back to my studio, sit
to me but twice more, and see what I will do ! '

Before Beth could reply came a quick knock
at the door, and Guinevere Conover, an English
prima donna who was making a fine success in
Florence, entered. She was a tall fair girl with
golden hair of no artificial tint, but her eyebrows
and lashes were dark, making the blue eyes an
unexpected sight, and one which never fails to
indicate a nature at combat with itself. She
had become an ardent friend of Beth's during
the winter, and had a cluster of tea-roses now in
her hand as a tribute to her little queen.

1 How could you come to see me when you
are going to sing in the new opera to-night ? '
exclaimed Beth, with fond rebuke, as soon as
the introductions were over.

I couldn't stand it at home,' answered Miss
Conover in an undertone, going towards the
study to lay aside her wraps. ' I must not do

anything to-day, and idleness just kills me. It
gives me nerves, and fears, and all sorts of silly
things, and I knew you would exercise them.
Ah, love ! ' she exclaimed abruptly, as the curtain
fell behind them, ' you are all my peace and my
rest now. It's marvellous the effect you have
on me. I feel it as soon as I come near. Today
I stood outside your door there, before I
knocked, and just tried to feel you, as it were ;
but it was nothing to having you right here

You shall stay with me, then, as long as you
like ; all day if you choose,' said Beth promptly.
She knew the passionate woman had been thrown
by an early disappointment on to the stage for
work, and that now her whole devotion was
given to her art except what — could it be 1 —
was reserved for Bethesda. ' If I can quiet you,
you shall have me,' she added tenderly.

That is like you, sweet. Let me put this
rose in your hair. It is too lovely for any other
place. I remember when I first saw you, dressed

in sheer white, I thought you were like a tropical
moonlight, so fair and clear, and yet with an
undertone of passion in you which suggested
exotic flowers, and palm trees, and '

And deserts ! ' interrupted Beth, turning
away somewhat impatiently. ' Forgive me, but
I can't bear to be talked about. I just hate
myself to-day.'

1 Why, what can be the matter, caressing ? '
With quick instinct she added presently : ' Is it
the painter ? '

1 Precisely ! ' exclaimed Beth. ' I have been
so stared at and studied by him that even when
he says nothing I am conscious of myself and
my poses. It's miserable ! I feel like hiding
myself in a cavern. Instead,' she added, with
an effort after her usual manner, ' come in and
talk to him. He is entertaining and appreciative
; you will like one another.'

Signor Straora rose to meet them and to take
his leave at the same time ; but a word from

Beth persuaded him to stay, and the conversation
was immediately easy and fluent. Beth
delighted in listening to the witty sallies and
vivacious replies which passed between Signor
Straora and Miss Conover, but after a little the
latter grew restless. This was not what she
needed; Beth's presence did not exercise its
charm with other persons intervening.

She rose, and, going to the piano, began
turning over some music. When she could not
have one, her instinct led her directly to the
other.

Sing us one little song, won't you, Evra ? '
urged Mrs. Trescott.

Oh, she ought not interposed Beth. But
to such a nature as Guinevere's danger lends
piquancy. Besides, as she said, one song could
not tire her.

She had soon chosen a simple minor air, with
pathetic intervals and an appealing melody. It
expressed the sorrow of a man who had laid his

beloved in the grave, and had planted flowers at
her head and feet — one dark and sombre, to tell
his grief; and one white and candid, to recall
her purity.

Music is said to be the voicing of the
emotions, and surely it was so here. The rare
voice touched its hearers, and made their innermost
wishes speak. Mrs. Trescott was restless
under a rankling memory ; Beth thought how
far better it would be to love, and lose, if need
were ; and for a moment Straora's eyes rested
on Beth's drooping head, with the rose in the
warm coils, as a man might look at one who had
the power to save him from sorrow bitterer than
death.

When the chaste devotion of the last tones
was hushed into silence, and a few words of
appreciation had been spoken by the stranger,
in a voice which quite satisfied the artiste,
she said :

I will give you a treasure in return for your

kind words, signore. Beth, you will play us my
sonata ? '

Certainly,' said Beth. Here she was at home,
and no false pride or obtrusive self-consciousness
hampered her. She knew she could play, and
she was pleased to give pleasure. So she took
up her violin, and pressed it against her breast a
moment ; but once vibrating, she forgot all
else.

The slumbering passion and pathos which
underlay her nature flowed out in this beloved
art, to which she had given years of study. She
was really great at times, beautiful to look at,
thrilling to listen to, infinite to suggest. No
other person seemed to ensoul a sonata as did
Bethesda. Every strain became a thought, and
carried itself into one's brain. Each note seemed
a magnet, to attract, and to hold. Finally, one
felt one's self the instrument, and one's heartstrings
were what she was touching, and each
touch was an ecstasy and a pain ; and one would

not have foregone this pain for the most brilliant

joy-when
she finished and sank back, half-benumbed,
as always by playing, Evra came and
took the violin away, with cold hands and
burning eyes.

1 You outdid yourself ; is Mozart actually in
you 1 I believe sometimes you are yourself a
spirit, child.'

1 She is all spirit,' said Signor Straora, standing
near, and just touching her chair as if to
detain her. What weird power was this that
Beth exercised ? Every one felt it, and these
artist natures more than all.
She smiled up at them both.
I won't vanish,' she said. ' You make me
feel quite eerie, you two, so serious, and yet so
absurd. Come, I'll break the spell.'

She sprang up and gave herself a little shake.
As she did so the flower fell from her hair.
Signor Straora instantly picked it up.

There lies my power ! ' exclaimed Beth, ' in
Evra's gift. Shan't we give it to him, to use as
an amulet against the witch, mademoiselle ? '

'Not against her,' he said, with peculiar
emphasis, as Evra nodded assent. She left them
and went over to say good-bye to Mrs Trescott.

Signor Straora seized his opportunity, and
used it with good effect. He saw Miss Hamilton
was softened by the music, and touched by their
appreciation. He urged her to confer the greatest
pleasure she could upon him, since his whole
soul was in his art, and she, now, was necessary
to it. He avoided with fine care too much
personal warmth, and yet let his enthusiasm on
art speak as it would. She wavered, and finally
turned to her aunt.

Mrs. Trescott was quick in discerning the
undercurrents of society where no personal bias
blinded her, and was fond of saying that she had
yet to see the man who could conceal his love
for any woman when she had once seen the two

together. She generally prevented any possible
mistake by taking it for granted that any given
man loved any given woman whom he had met,
until the contrary was proved ; and the contrary
of love is not hate, but indifference.

She shrewdly suspected, therefore, that Signor
Straora was ' in love ' with her niece, but she did
not look upon this as any reason why she should
refuse a favour that would bring a rich reward.
She never threw away anything she desired
because of a doubt about using the means she
had in her hand ; that is, she was always sure
she had a right to use them.

So now she said : ' Of course Beth will go.
It is very kind of you to urge it, yet I think it
will be a pleasure to you also, and Beth is glad
to do a kindness. "When shall we come, signore ?
and when can we hope to see the portrait ? Do
you know,' turning to Miss Conover, ' we never
have had a glimpse of it yet. The whims of
artists, however, are to be considered, I suppose.'

VOL. I. E

Meantime Signor Straora was looking at Beth,
still unsatisfied. He wished to have her free consent
; he wished it to come from her. She
understood, and smiled brightly.

i Yes, I will come, since auntie consents. I
don't doubt it will be enjoyable ; and then it is
a pleasure, isn't it, signore, to give pleasure ? I
am quite selfish in it, you see.'

It can hardly be expressed what this favour
was to the artist. He felt it a question concerning
not alone his art, not even principally that,
but his most elevated happiness, an inspiration
to heart, brain, and soul, such as he had never experienced
before. It was not love he felt; rather
that uplifted devotion which rendered Dante and
Petrarch great — that choosing as the type of all
perfection one woman, and worshipping none but
her.

Yet Beth was only a pretty American girl with
faults, and vanities, and narrowness such as frail
humanity will have ; such as Beatrice herself, the

divine Beatrice, no doubt also possessed ; and she
did not realise at all what had come to her ;
indeed, would have considered it unheard-of
arrogance to dream of it.

She had become, in fact, during this interview
somewhat ashamed of having taken for granted
what had not been even hinted, only felt. But
it is just here a woman's responsibility lies.
Bethesda was not clear-sighted in regard to the
love of men. What blinded her ? She often
asked herself this afterwards, but she never gained
a satisfactory reply. Was it vanity ? Surely for
it to be hard to realise persons loved her, was not
to be vain. She saw nothing in herself worthy
of love, so did not expect it. Was this vanity ?
Bather, what else could it be % The doubt implied
that the bestowal of love proved the value was in
herself ; whereas it is only the affluence of love,
falling, like the rain upon the just and unjust,
which makes any one the recipient of devotion
from another. Love comes to us rather for what

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

we should be than what we are. But Beth did
not understand this. Only loving, and feeling
how the divine source of love makes it spring
beyond all persons to its fountainhead, could
teach her.

This is what had taught Straora, and, trembling
on the brink of his delight, he felt himself incapable
of remaining in her presence ; he dared not
even kiss her hand, but took his hat and fled.

He returned in the evening, however, to accompany
them to the opera. It was a magnificent
success, and it is impossible to convey an idea of
an Italian audience under the thrall of such an
artistic creation as that given them of Pocohanta
by La Cinoni. For the time being they live in
the lives portrayed before them, feeling the surging
music as they would their own passions, and
calmed at its command as at that of a god.
Nothing can equal the intoxication of holding
such an audience in one's hand, and seeing it
quiver with each tone and gesture.

Cinoni had the tears in her eyes as she came
forward between the tenor and composer, and
was greeted with a real ovation. She tried to
transfer some of the applause to her companions,
but they joined in it to the delight of the public.
She had made its supreme success in her masterly
rendering of passion and despair. They felt that
nothing could express their gratitude.

As Mrs. Trescott and Miss Hamilton drove
home escorted by Signor Straora, Beth leaned
back in her corner, an indistinct white figure in
the semi darkness.

Presently she said :

'Did you ever think in going to the opera,
signore, that there must be many persons present
who are o-oino; through stirring dramas of their

own ? '

'I never did — until to-night,' he replied,
bending forward, eager to catch a glimpse of her
face. But without noticing his movement she
continued :

I wonder if each life is not set to music as
much as an opera ? Surely we can make it what
we will, either a sublime symphony, a glorious
anthem, or a requiem. Sometimes I think that
if we only listened closely enough we might hear
the orchestral accompaniment, and gain strength
from the knowledge that discords only chord at
last.'

There was a solemnity in her tone which prevented
a ready reply, and in a moment or two
she spoke in a more natural voice, but with an
echo of passionate sadness :

Poor Pocohanta ! in losing her lover she lost
the keynote of her existence, and all she could do
was to end the distorted harmony. Death must
be the result of a broken heart. But in our day
no one should have a broken heart. Love is not
all in the world, even for a woman ; there is something
higher and greater.'

'There is nothing so sweet,' murmured the
artist, thrown off his guard. He had listened to

her as to an oracle. She seemed miles above him ;
he never thought of touching her, but his heart
spoke almost unconsciously in those few words.
She might require an utter sacrifice from him.
but he knew its worth.

On this strained intensity of feeling Mrs. Trescott
broke with a laugh.

What fol-de-rol talking of dying for love !
The heart is alton-ether too elastic for that, isn't
it, signore ? We know better than this little
romantic maiden, eh V

6 1 doubt if we know so well replied Signor
Straora gravely, and to his relief they arrived at
home.

Ah, the little more, and how much it is !

And the little less, and what worlds away !

How a sound shall quicken content to bliss,

Or a breath suspend the blood's best play,

And life be a proof of this ! '

Robert Browning.

The second morning after the representation of
Pocohanta was the one on which Beth and her
aunt first returned to Signor Straora's studio.
The bright sunlight and the fresh air had
banished all Beth's ghosts, and she was in a
joyous mood, dancing around her aunt with a
frolicsomeness that caused Mrs. Trescott to watch
her a little. Could the child be really interested
in the painter ?

You don't seem particularly unhappy at the
thought of sitting again,' she remarked.

Not a bit of it,' answered Beth frankly.
• You know I dislike refusing requests more than
almost anything else ; and then you are pleased
now, auntie. That makes me happy.'

Mrs. Trescott pushed her reassurance a question
further.

And Signor Straora ? '

Oh yes ; I like to please him too. He has
not had a very pleasant life, they say, and I am
glad to tuck any small repugnance I may feel
into my pocket for the sake of giving him something
nice to think about ; and,' with a gay
smile, ' I'm nice, auntie, am I not V

1 You will do,' answered Mabel, in a well-pleased
voice. ' You look about four years old
this morning, and are just as much of a sunbeam
as you were then. I hope you will stay my
little girl for ever so many years yet, though, of
course, you must marry some time.'

1 would begin to mourn over it now, if I
were in your place,' exclaimed Beth. ' It is the

wisest plan in this vale of tears to prepare for
sorrow and never expect joy. Do cry a little
about my marrying; right off, now; won't yon
please, auntie ? Indeed, we might cry together,
for it will be far more lamentable to me. Now,
let's begin together. One '

'You foolish child!' laughed Mabel. 'What
nonsense you can talk ! Eun away and get
ready. We will postpone our tears till a more
propitious occasion.'

Notwithstanding this youthful exuberance of
spirits Beth dressed herself very demurely in a
gray gown, determined to be quite dignified ;
but she could not help smiling as she met her
own dancing eyes in the mirror.

I am not very ugly,' she thought, ' and I am
quite content to be pretty to-day. It can't harm
anybody.'

When they reached the studio building, with
its sombre cypresses opposite, a shadow was cast
for a moment over the sparkling eyes and bright

face. Had she any right to return here, where
she might be putting sorrow into another's life,
and lift through the radiant sunshine some such
gloomy monument as one of these ?

But Signor Straora had been on the watch for
them, and now came running down to welcome
his guests. There was a pleasure in his bearing
(he had to hold a strong rein on himself not to
show too much), which, however illogically, restored
Beth's gladness of spirit.

When the door into the studio was opened
Beth could not restrain an exclamation of delight.
Through an immense window, from which the
gray shades were drawn aside, the light was
streaming in a yellow glory, and on every side it
was reflected by armour and weapons, which were
arranged in groups on the tapestried walls.
Finely-carved guitars, flutes, and other musical
instruments, were laid in artistic confusion on
mosaic and ebony tables ; old cabinets of ivory
and sandal-wood stood against Japanese screens,

which formed odd corners, where lacquer ware
and Venetian glass were mingled in incongruous
harmony. The most striking object in the room
was a screen crossing the whole length of the
apartment, and rising almost to the frescoed
ceiling. It was made of panels of deep red
damask, framed in carved ebony ; and, propped
or hung on the protuberances of the carving,
were unfinished sketches and rough outlines of
heads and limbs ; while all around the room, on
easels and chairs, were paintings — some of weird
scenery, and some of elfish figures, that peopled
the room with witches.

But the completing touch, and the one that
pleased Beth most, was the bright wood fire. It
had never been there before.

I observed that you had a fire always
burning,' explained their host, ■ and I wished to
make it as comfortable for you as I could.'

There could hardly have been a greater concession
made by an Italian, for they prefer to shiver

over a ' scalding ' rather than to ' oppress the
lungs as they insist a fire always does. But
radical changes were being made in at least one
Italian by this American girl. Mrs. Trescott
wondered even if he did not intend the fire asa
symbol of the warmth which had been lighted
in his heart by Beth's unconscious hands.

She had gone immediately to the hearth, and
stood there with one dainty foot on the fender,
delighted by the scene, and permeated with the
sense of pleasure from unobtrusive admiration,
as well as from the blazing logs.

One brand fell forward.

Oh,' she said quickly, ' give me the tongs.
Thanks. There !' dexterously readjusting the
sticks, ' you cannot be expected to know how to
tend to a fire. It takes a woman to keep it from
doing damage.'

o ©

He was watching her with an almost painful
delight. Think of a Beatrice condescending to

© ©

arrange a domestic hearth !

o

She looked up at him smiling and a little
flushed. Instantly down fell the tongs with a
clatter, and she moved away to her seat. How
about the vague uneasiness, which was the utmost
she had acknowledged to herself, then ?

Please, signorina,' said the artist from the
easel in a business-like tone (he had realised his
danger), 'will you turn this way ? It is essential
that I should see your eyes now.'

'Must I look at you, then, all the time?'
asked Beth, a little wickedly in spite of herself.

A quick answer flashed in Signor Straora's
eyes, but he did not give it utterance.

Look anywhere you choose,' he said quietly,
so that it is towards me.'

That is my Sphinx-like expression, eh V she
said, a little impatient at her position. ' I
wonder how you ever fancied I looked like the
Sphinx anyway. Do you know, signore, it is
rather a doubtful compliment % As I remember
her, she had no nose, and her stony complexion

looked as if she had been visited by a gigantic
smallpox."

It is not in those points that I trace the
resemblance.'

f Xo I Well, that is comforting. Didn't the
Sphinx have the privilege of asking a question of
every one who approached her?' she went on
after a moment's pause. Someway, she could
not bear silence to-day. with his hand and eyes
working so swiftly. She felt all the blemishes
there were in her face ; she must take her mind
off it — this miserable self-consciousness !

He had hesitated before answering her. Now
he said gravely : ' Yes, signorina.'

• And wasn't there some dreadful penalty attached
if he did not answer V

The sacrifice of his life, signorina
This was becoming altogether too serious.

• I can't play at any such game as that if you do
call me the Sphinx,' she said lightly. ' What does
the mysterious creature mean, after all, signore V

I cannot say ; I can at most only paint it.'
He stood back from the easel, surveying the
work and the model critically. ' It is your eyes
that escape me. In them lies the whole secret
of the expression. There is a deep question in

them ; a wealth of expression Ah, signorina

! don't mock at me ! '

Beth's eyes were dancing now, and she broke
into a peal of hearty laughter as she exclaimed :

Let me translate the question for you, signore
; it is indeed deep. What do you expect
to answer when you are accused of sending me
to perdition by flattery ? '

1 1, flatter ? Pardon he said, persistently
grave. ' I think you cannot recall a single word
of even most deserved appreciation. It is too
common for you.'

Beth's gaiety was silenced by his tone. She
played with the beads in her lap, a trifle embarrassed.


Madame said the artist to Mrs. Trescott,

cannot you suggest something which will keep
la signorina from being too much ennuyieV

i Give her a book, and let her read aloud tous.
It may entertain you as well as her.'

I do not doubt it ; but I have few books
he said, taking a handful from a table near by.
Here is a work on art ; you surely will not care
for that, Meet Hamilton ? Nor this on Egypt ?
You see I have been looking up Egyptian history
to explain you. Nor this ?'

1 Let me have the Egyptian one,' said Beth,
with interest. ' 1 should like myself to find out
what is the explanation given of me.'

He came forward to hand it to her, but
stopped suddenly.

No, please, not this,' he said deprecatingly.

Why not ? '

'Because I — I greatly prefer not.'

Then there is no reason for it, signore ? ' she

said, instinctively trying her power over him.

'No, it is a whim of mine,' he answered
vol. 1. F

hastily, slipping the volume under the others.
This will suit you much better,' and he offered
her a collection of poems.

No, I don't care for that ; I want the other.
It is a whim of mine,' she added, mimicking his
deep tones with bewitching effect. ' Please give
me it.'

She held out her hand, the rosy palm upwards.
It was a very little thing that she asked.
Why not ? Of course the book was hers.

She opened it eagerly and glanced through
the closely-printed pages, reading bits such as
these : — ' The meaning of the Sphinx is the great
enigma of life ; the earnest seeking after truth,
which has existed in all times. It is the mystery
of the unknown.'

And I look so wondrously mysterious, do I ? '
commented Beth, although the query in her eyes
deepened in spite of her light words. They
were only the foam on the surface of the sea.
' Her figure was placed before every temple."

i i,

You have marked that,' she said, glancing up.
He was busy, and did not reply.

" The Sphinx has a lion's body, with two
wings, and a virgin's head." Poor virgin ! Now,
what do you suppose that means, signore ? '

The natural and the ideal, and the intelligence
which unites them.'

Why, there's something in it, isn't there ? '
she exclaimed, her intellect aroused. ' But whv
should it be a lion ? '

For strength and courage. Those are the
highest natural attributes.'

And the wings ? Oh yes, I see. But is a
virgin the highest in humanity ? '

Is she not ? ' he murmured very low.

Now as Beth sat there was an old copy of a
Virgin over her head, and it would have been
difficult to say which Signor Straora glanced at
as he spoke these words. Beth remembered he
was a Catholic, and explained his words quite
singly.

Why didn't you wish me to see this ? ' she
asked presently, closing the book. ' I don't see
what troubled you.'

I thought you would not find it interesting,'
he answered in a relieved tone, but he incautiously
showed a desire to regain it.

No, there is something I haven't found ! ' she
exclaimed. ' Go to your easel, signore ; you
cannot have it yet.'

She turned over a few pages carelessly, not
really expecting to find anything, when her eye
caught sight of a fine annotation, and heavy
marks around a certain passage.

If she had read it she would have known
with what exceeding reverence and devotion he
regarded her ; and the artist had been afraid it
would rob him of his sittings. Moreover, he could
not have her see it when she was in such a mood.

But of course she did not think of reading a
word. She half closed the book, and said triumphantly
:

• I have it ! '

He took a long stride towards her.

1 Signorina, you will give it to me ? ' His
tone made it almost a command, and this made
her defiant. She folded her hands over it.

You gave it to me, signore.'

For a moment they were both silent, her clear
eyes encountering his with a curious expression
of mingled fire, determination, and experiment.

1 He shall not have the book,' she was thinking
; ' but he ought to make me give it to him.'

He half recognised the only way to cope with
her was in placing entire confidence in her, but
the impatience which so often foils victory — perhaps
also his intense desire to prove to himself
some influence over her — seized him then.

1 Signora,' he repeated, ' you will give me that
book.'

Are you quite sure ? ' she returned, smiling.

Yes,' he said ; but Beth now detected a
slight wavering in his tone.

1 Why should I ? ' she asked.

Because I desire it.'

Are your desires usually so important tome
? ' she exclaimed haughtily.

They shall be — in this instance ! ' he replied
with a fierce catch in his voice.

<Ah?'

She met his eyes again with dauntless resolution.
It was a curious sight to see, this
dainty, seated maiden defying with calm coolness
the fiery-souled man who stood before her.

There was a moment's silence. Mrs. Trescott
had dropped her work, and was watching with
interest.

He must conquer now or never,' she thought.

His burning eyes plunged into his opponent's,
and recognised there a superior strength. This
woman possessed a power he could not thwart.
Her indomitable spirit paralysed him, while raising
his admiration, his passion, to a dizzy height.

He dared no longer look at her. Without a

word lie ground his heel on the marble floor,
and, turning, left her.

Beth drew a long breath, and laid the book
on the table. She leaned back in her chair then,
her eyes brilliant as two stars, triumph and regret
mingling strangely.

What a disturbance over nothing ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Trescott, laughing. ' You might a great
deal better have taken my advice and read the
poems, Beth. But here is your book, signore,
and you had better make use of your model
while you can.'

Signor Straora did not answer. He had gone
quite to the other end of the room, and was
hidden by a screen.

Beth was already regretting her impulsive
action. She did not blame herself for measuring
lances, when it once came to battle, but she
wished she had avoided the cause.

■' I came to give him a pleasure, and I have
annoyed him instead,' she thought.

As he walked slowly towards her he saw the
wistful expression on her face. His own was
what the French call morne.

1 Signora,' he said, stopping at some little distance
from her, ' I cannot ask your pardon. I
am not worthy of your favour.' He took the
book and laid it on the red coals. 'That, at
least, will not come between us more.'

Beth sprang up to rescue the book instinctively,
but it was too late. The blue flames
shrivelled and curled the binding ; then crept in
among the leaves, and burst forth into a bright
conflagration.

Beth drew a step nearer. 'I beg your pardon,'
she said earnestly. ' I am grieved to make you
lose your book.'

'It is not the book,' he murmured. Then,
aloud : ' You have nothing to regret, nor any
pardon to ask. Indeed, that would be impossible
from you to me.' He stopped. The
gray ashes were whirling up the chimney.

1 Actio ! ' lie whispered, in an echo of passionate
accents.

Beth was awed by his manner. She was
silent and motionless. How she wished she had
never returned !

Presently he moved a little towards her, and,
with downcast eyes, began speaking rapidly :

Madonna, you do not know what you have
been to me ; what you are, and always will be.
Nothing can rob me of you. I am as sure of
you as of God's saints — as of our Blessed Lady.'
He paused,"and his eyes now wandered with a
despairing intensity over the lovely features, the
tremulous mouth, and drooping lids of deep-set
eves.

I am going away,' he went on. ' I am not
worthy to be near you. I would gladly be the
marble beneath your feet, to thrill with pleasure
when you pressed it. But, I am not marble,
and — I go away. Don't try to answer me. I
know all you would say. Your face has become

the best-known page in life to me. You cannot
conceal what you think ; and yet, I never can
read deep enough.'

The fluttering flush that came and went on
her cheeks, the distress, the poignant regret,
warned him he must not prolong his last study
of this dearest face.

He bent before her, and took her two hands

in his.

Eemember, I thank you,' he said, ' and I
leave you.'

He pressed one and the other hand to his lips.

Actio, madonna mia.'

Not daring to trust himself further, he bowed
to Mrs. Trescott and left the room.

What on earth does all this mean % ' exclaimed
Mabel. She had not overheard the low
quick words.

It means that we are to go. Come quick,
auntie.'

1 You are the most incomprehensible couple ! '

said Mrs. Trescott, but she put on her hat and
cloak.

When they were going downstairs Beth cried
in an undertone :

It is my fault, my fault ! I ought never to
have come back ! '

Mabel's answer was an incredulous shrug of
the shoulders.

Now tell me what all this fuss is about,' she
said, as they entered the carriage.

Oh, I can't ! ' said Beth in a choked voice.
She had caught a glimpse of the cypresses, and
these stirred recollections which made her self-reproach
still more cutting.

•' Pshaw ! ' said Mrs. Trescott, suddenly wise.
1 Don't make so much of it, child. He'll get
over his sweet trouble soon enough. A little
love hurts no man. Each one thinks his heart is
broken, of course, when the self-conceit is flattened
out of it ; but it is a very elastic contrivance,
which soon puffs out again. Don't worry.'

Beth, hardly heard her. ' I have done wrong,
wrong she was saying to herself. ' I wish I
were ugly and hateful. I don't see why persons

like me I am not worthy of it, — and I have

hurt him so ! '

It showed the difference between the two.
These little things made the ' divide.' Streams
whose springs were close together would, as they
increased, empty into different seas.

In the evening a letter was handed Mrs.
Trescott from the artist. He thanked them for
their great kindness, and told them he was
obliged to leave the city for an indefinite period.
He ended the short note with these words : —

You have given me the purest and noblest
hours of my existence, and whatever the future
may bring, believe that the inspiration contained
in them will not stop with this world. If at anytime
my life can be of service to you, command
it. — Devotedly yours,

Alberto Straora di Albans.'

They fail, and they alone, who have not striven.'

J. B. Aldrich.

Thine eyes, too wise, are heavy with the dole,
The doubt, the dread, of all this human maze.'

K. W. Gilder.

It was the end of February ; a day deepened in
beauty from the one on which Bethesda had lain
on the sod in the garden, and afterwards had
consented to return to Signor Straora's studio ;
but the air was only more deliciously soft, the
tenderness of the landscape but more articulate,
and Bethesda a little lovelier. A month could
not pass with her now, any more than with the
spring, and not leave its slow, sweet traces. It
begins early in Italy, but only reaches perfection
there, as elsewhere, in the midst of June roses.

Bethesda was waiting now outside the English
bank, where her aunt had gone for letters. The
old Florentine palace, thus desecrated, towered
majestically into the sunshine, and formed a
rugged background to the varied life of the
street ; and the lounging idlers, the busy hucksters,
the crippled beggars, and energetic foreigners,
all turned to give at least a second glance at
the dainty figure seated in the little phaeton.

She would have been surprised had she known
how many, who were entire strangers, were well
acquainted with her habits, and looked for her
passing as something worth watching for. She
was one of those women whose faces grow more
beautiful as they become familiar, and which do
not need a voice to speak. The simple discerning
Italians pointed her out to one another
with real affection, and called her : Our lovely
lady. .

She found this morning the glances she
attracted somewhat embarrassing at last, and

exclaimed joyfully when Mrs. Trescott appeared,
a packet of letters in her hand, —

Isn't it delightful to have such a big mail ? '
she said. ' Who is that thick one of yours from ?
Aunt Agatha ? Couldn't we break our rule just
for to-day, and glance over some of these
now?'

1 Xo, Beth, don't. Trouble will come quick
enough any way. There's something wrong in
those letters. Oh, I know it. You needn't argue
with me. I have had a spell without any
trouble, and now it's bound to come ; so let us
enjoy our drive while we can.'

As you like, dear. Presentiments can only
be met by proving there is nothing in them, or
else by making up one's mind to meet whatever
may come bravely ; but '

You needn't preach to me. Try and make
me forget it rather. That is the best you can do.'

It was again an example of their difference.
She had tried to give what she sought on that

day in December: a strengthening in view of
some calamity. But she was finding out that it
is not by any means an infallible rule to do as
one would be done by. Some natures are diametrically
opposed : what is kind to one is cruel
to the other.

She made an effort, therefore, to do as her
aunt had done by her ; talked to her cheerily
and entertainingly, and was rewarded by the
gloom lifting somewhat from Mrs. Trescott's face.

During this they passed the Porta Romana,
and followed the road which wound upwards in
easy curves, bordered by trees which cast young
shadows across the wide walks and gardens, that
filled in the interstices of the doubling carriageway.
On either side ancient and modern villas
rose, among shimmering olive groves, whose
leaves stirred in the sunny air, and caught lights
never twice the same.

'Does this ever cease to be a surprise?' said
Beth. 'Day after day we come by here, and

still it is always new, always an unexpected foretaste
of the pleasure we know is beyond.'

Dear Italy ! ' exclaimed Mabel, throwing a
kiss to the landscape with her usual extravagance.
' Who cares for presentiments while we
can breathe this air, and smell this fragrance,
and look at this view, and, in short, drive around
the Via dei Coll!'

Here is the field where we gathered wildflowers
last year ; don't you want to try now V

Yes, that will be charming.'

A moment later they were pushing their way
through a wild hedge, and, amidst the sprouting
grain, along the fringed edges of the field, delightedly
espied hyacinths and harebells, violets
and anemones, and the voluptuous narcissi, passionate
as a southern beauty.

After the first exclamations they gathered the
blossoms in silence, except for a cry now and
then from Mabel. Nature's unseen incense, rising
around them, seemed to have permeated Beth,

VOL. I. G

for when she joined Mabel at last her liquid eyes
were eloquent of mysteries half revealed, of truths
whose fragrance came to her as the flower-scents
did. What was it about odours being like the
prayers of saints ?

Just see these narcissi,' she said. l Aren't
thick white blossoms intense beyond all the
coloured flowers ? It is surely the white heat,
which seems cool from its very excess.'

'Ugh ! they're suffocating !' exclaimed Mabel,
pushing them away, and hurrying to the carriage.
Come ; it's horribly hot in the sun.'

The coachman stopped again on the top of the
hill, without waiting to be told. Often the ladies
sat here for half an hour, at the base of the
great bronze David, with the cypresses of San
Miniato piercing the deep purple sky, like a reticent
question, behind them.

Beneath lay the most beautiful valley and city
in the world. There were the narrow, irregular
streets of the old town, and the house-covered,

bridges, under which ran the yellow Arno, now
filled by snow gathered from the spring-touched
Apennines. Across the river statued palaces extended
their porticoes to the river's edge, and
beyond lay the mass of merchant houses, surmounted
at close intervals by domes and spires,
uplifting high into the violet air the holy, golden
cross.

As they sat there, from a hundred towers rang
forth the bells, announcing the hour of noon, the
twelfth hour which combines those of all the
apostles ; and as the mellow chimes died away in
the purple shadows of the hills, the silence brought
an indescribable sensation of listening; angels
bending over the city in a radiance so bright that
they could not be seen.

Involuntarily following; the echoing; sounds
Beth's eyes wandered off over the far distance,
where the exquisitely shaded mountains fell back
to give place to the sea-like valley ; and the peaks
of Carrara lifted high their snowy heads above

the hearts where lie untold beauties of future
statues. Beyond these there was only the sky,
the heavens — that is all. But the mighty light
made this blue too glorious for human eyes, so
they fell, and followed back again the billowy
mountains, rising and sinking in the wondrous
atmosphere, bearing castles and peasant homes
alike upon their bosoms, to the gray walls of
Fiesole.

Over the face of Bethesda, as she gazed, swept
the expression of many unuttered, uncomprehended
thoughts. The beauty oppressed while it exalted
her. She felt wide wings unfold themselves to
bear her up, and her body held her down. She
would have liked to be the life in the earth, the
warmth in the air, the light in the sun ; anything
great and impersonal, which would satisfy this
strange yearning within her, that seemed infinite
in its capacity, and would not be subdued.

Gracious, child ! What are you thinking
about ? }

Beth started sensitively, and turned back to
the carriage. She could not try to talk any more.
She felt hushed, yet thrilled, as if breathing in
the silence before a voice should speak.

Mabel's heavy depression closed in upon them
both as they drove home, where the letters must
soon be read. Mrs. Trescott did not care to make
an effort to diminish its effect.

What is the good ? ' she said, when Beth tried
to rouse her. ' It's only one thing more, and life
has not been so easy to me thus far that I should
expect anything but trouble in the future. It
has been hard, hard ; motherless, homeless, childless,
a widow and an exile ; — and now — who
knows what worse is coming ? '

She looked with dislike on the packet bearing
the handwriting usually so warmly welcomed.

How grieved Aunt Agatha and Margaret
would be to have their letters meet with such a
reception ! ' said Beth ; and then, seeing it useless
to say more, and perhaps a little of the weight of

Mabel's gloom falling on her too, they drove the
rest of the way in silence. •

Her shadowy room looked very calm and restful
to the girl after the warm drive and oppressive
mental atmosphere. She let herself drop on the
lounge, and lay there a few moments in utter
lassitude. Then she roused herself with a start.

Bah ! it is better to bring down the sword of
Damocles on one's devoted head than fear what
may not exist

She tore open one of the envelopes bearing her
sister's handwriting. It commenced abruptly : —

Father is ill, very ill. They say he will not
live. Miss Sink is nursing him. If it were not
for that I should go to him. Aunt Agatha kindly
said she would go with me, if I wished it, but I
told her no. Was I right % Would you have
done the same ? Our lawyer is to keep us
posted. If father asks for us, for either of us,
of course I will start at once.'

The rest of the letter, about other things,

Beth read without understanding. It was appalling,
someway, to be so far off, and not aware
whether her father, now, was alive or dead.

She had known him but very little. His
wife had died at her birth, and he had separated
himself almost entirely from his children, leaving
them in the care of their young aunts, who had
been brought up by his wife, and were then unmarried.
His life was of a description which
made him feel less uneasy away from the innocent
eyes of his children and the wiser ones of
their protectors. He had a large fortune, and
was liberal with it, so that he was quite willing
to give a generous allowance to ' the girls ' for
the care of their little nieces. When Agatha
married, the two were left under Mabel's charge:
but later, after her own romantic marriage to a
lover upon his deathbed, Mr. Hamilton showed
some desire to regain control of his children.
At first it was looked upon as a hopeful sign,
then recognised as only a deeper step into evil.

He was no longer ashamed. Mabel now saw
her opportunity of fulfilling a lifelong wish and
going abroad. Every year made it more dangerous
for the children, as long as they were underage.
There was ' a scene ' with Mr. Hamilton —
a power which Mrs. Trescott had always held
over the man, lashing him with her sarcasm and
bitter invectives, like a second Queen Margaret,
and he could not walk on, regardless of the stinging
scorpions, like another Richard. So she had
her way. She shook with energy the dust of
America from her feet, glad to leave all old associations
and begin life anew.

It was a new life, at all events, for in the first
year she heard of the death of Milton Eglamore,
the one man she had loved, and who had broken
their engagement for some trifling cause. This
had been the real reason of her hasty marriage.
She wanted to put something between her and
the memory of her ' dastard' lover. It had
hardly been successful. As long as there was

life there was hope. When this went out, however,
after the first shock, the rich widow became
more lively and dashing than ever. She called
herself ' an exile ' at times, but in reality she
liked Europe. It would be a trial to her to give
it up. Margaret had gone home as soon as she
was of age to live with Agatha Stanhope, and
presently Beth would be of age too. She could
return then also, but Mrs. Trescott did not
eagerly anticipate that repeal of the decree of
banishment. In any case there was a year
more, and who knew what might not happen ina
year ?

Beth knew the facts of all this ; she surmised,
perhaps, the feelings. She had been brought up
in the knowledge of more of the darker side in
life than most women of her class and years. It
had perhaps given her her earnestness and yearning
to do right; but she had little to steady her.
Now, looking out into this life from which her
own had sprung, seeing it on the verge of the

unknown and awful future, she shrank back
appalled.

Presently, however, she opened another letter
of later date.

6 We received a telegram today,' it said.
Father died last night quite easily, and seemingly
content. He never mentioned either of
us. When Mr. Simpson asked him at last if he
should not send for me, "No," he said; "the
will is right; the will is right." That was all.
Uncle Raleigh goes on to-night to be present at
the reading of the will.'

Beth dropped the paper, and sat looking outwith
unseeing eyes on the swaying branches and
blue sky visible through the lattice.

Could it be that her father was dead and she
felt no more 1 Oh, the sadness of it, the bitter
sadness, that she could not grieve for him ! She
would have done much to have helped him. It
had been a dream all her life that some time she
might be of service to him. She had thought of

his old age, and his daughters caring for him.
And this was the end — this was all.

Hark ! what was that ? It sounded like a
sob. Yes, and there was another. In an instant
Beth had unfastened the door into Mrs.
Trescott's room and had sprung to Mabel's side.
She was sitting by a table, her face hidden, and
was crying violently.

'Dear heart, what is the matter?' Beth exclaimed,
while she knelt and put her arm around
the quivering figure.

There was no answer but an acceleration of
sobs at the caressing touch, and a gradual subsidence
of them as the sympathetic silence
calmed and healed. At last Mabel put the
letter which had caused the outburst into Beth's
hand, indicating with a gesture for her to read
it in her own room.

Bethesda did as she was bidden. The letter
was one from Agatha. It was later than either
of Margaret's, and told of Mr. Stanhope's return.

Mr. Hamilton's will had been read, and was
found to leave his property to his daughters,
half and half. Mrs. Trescott and Mr. Stanhope
were left joint guardians. There was no word
of regret or affection, but his acts had spoken
well for his feelings towards his children. He
had no wish to rob them of what was rightfully
theirs.

'You can come home now without fear
continued Agatha, ' and I am sure you must
be anxious to do so. It is undoubtedly your
duty. The girls both need what they have
never had — a home which they feel to be permanent.
You will be happier in one yourself.
Besides, here are all these business affairs to
settle in which you and Ealeigh are equally
concerned; and Ealeigh's care of your own
money was first proposed for two years only,
and under a pressure of circumstances now
removed. He is still willing to do all the work,
but he wishes you to share the responsibility.

I hope you will come home as early as possible
and settle near us. There is a pretty house
whose grounds adjoin ours which is now for
sale. Margaret and I think it would just suit
you all. I remember Beth admired it when she
was here. I have asked them to hold it until
I hear from you.

Is our girlish intercourse to be renewed in
happier surroundings % And shall we enjoy together
seeing our nieces develop and mature V

Could it be this which had caused Mrs. Trescott's
passionate outburst ? Yes, Beth could see
how it appeared to her aunt. She was suddenly
asked — perhaps she might even think coerced —
to give up Europe, in whose free life Beth knew
she delighted. She was accountable to nobody
but herself here ; she could do as she chose ; she
need not look at the serious side of things anymore
than it pleased her. Over there it would
be quite different. Beth had keenly recognised
this during her visit to America. She could feel

how the hampering of family consultations would
chafe her aunt, accustomed to having her own
will an unquestioned law. But there was the
affection, the stability, the home life ! Yet these
would not compensate to her aunt, she knew.
Change, travel, and society had taken their
place. Thoughts had given way to things. It
was all a pleasant, outward life here ; there it
was earnest and thoughtful.

It would be a trial to Aunt Mabel, but it must
be done, decided Beth. Her own heart yearned
for her sister and aunt. For America ? Well,
no, she could not truthfully say that. She liked
Europe too. It was more homelike to her than
America. They might come back again for a
visit some time. Now it was their duty, as
Aunt Agatha said, to make a home.

But Aunt Mabel must not be forced in any
sense. She must take her own way. This house

in S , It was a rare chance, but if Aunt

Mabel felt badly about it, it must be given up,

for to take it would be a continual misery to
her. America was large ; they might settle

anywhere ; but anywhere out of S : it would

have to be these two alone. Margaret would
not feel it right to leave the Stanhopess. Still,
Beth was willing;. She could not have her aunt,
who had done so much for her. unhappy.

The troubles she foresaw worried the girl,
and yet whenever there came a lull in her
thoughts these things sank into insignificance
within the terrible silence of her father's unloved
death. Where was he now ? What
did he know now ? And the darkness and the
sense of vastness crushed her.

1 Men, at some time, are masters of their fates.'

Julius Caesar.

While Bethesda was still thinking a knock
came at the door, and a telegram was handed
her. Rendered fearful by the unwonted emotions
of the day, the yellow envelope caused her a
momentary chill, and she tore it open hastily to
end suspense.

It was in French, which relieved her fears,
but surprised her.

Hope to be in Florence Thursday, only fora
few hours. May I see you in the evening?
I entreat assent. Will await your answer. —
Rene d'Isten.'

How very peculiar ! ' exclaimed Beth, her
sensitive lips gathering a little scorn.

She took the missive immediately to her
aunt, who was writing, and looked up with hot
angry eyes.

1 Nothing is the matter, auntie said the
girl ; 'it is only a telegram from your friend
M. d'Isten.'

Impossible ! ' exclaimed Mabel, surprised into
forget fulness of her troubles.

"While she read Beth watched, and saw it did
indeed change the current of her aunt's mind.
She half smiled as she laid it down.

At least he is not timid,' she said.

Father audacious, I should say. Excuse me
for opening it. I did so by mistake. The boy
is waiting.'

Shall I answer it ? ' asked Mrs. Trescott
undecidedly.

V w

I cannot say answered Beth in a reticent

tone. ' That is a question no one but you can

decide.'

It seems as if I ought, when he says he will
VOL. i. h

wait for it. But I can't think very well she
said, putting her hand to her head pitifully.
'Do tell me what to do.'

How can I say, auntie dear ? You must
remember I know nothing of how you stand.
Weren't you offended with him 1 Do you wish
to see him \ '

The last I heard from him said Mrs. Trescott
evasively, f he assured me I had entirely
misunderstood him. He was sure if we met he
could convince me. Of course he couldn't ; but
then, it looks as if he had some excuse to telegraph
this, doesn't it ? '

Do you wish to hear the excuse ? That is
the only question. If you think it is a matter
which cannot be explained, there is no use in
seeing him. If you consider, it may be a mere
misunderstanding, why, let him come.'

c Then you advise his coming \ '

No, I don't advise anything. I know nothing
about it, remember.'

I think I will give him the opportunity, and
see what he makes of it decided Mabel after a
moment's thought. ' I used to like him very
much, and it is pleasant to have warm friends ;
never pleasant than when your relatives are
treating you harshly.'

The bitter look came again in her face as she
turned to her portfolio.

How shall I word it ? ' she asked, with an
appealing glance from abused eyes.

Why don't you say clearly it is for an
explanation ? '

How can I ? Here, you write it. My head
is in a whirl.'

She rose and threw herself on the sofa, while
Beth quickly wrote : —

Madame Trescott will receive Monsieur
d' 1st en if he thinks himself authorised to call.'

She read it aloud.

It is surely cold enough, but better so
perhaps. And now tell me,' she added, when

Beth had despatched the boy, 'what do you
think of Agatha's letter ? '

1 think you had better simply tell her now
that you won't take the house, and decide the
rest later. You were writing to her ? '

Yes ; but I did not say that.'

Will you let me add it, then, and take the
letter ? ' asked Beth very gently. She saw her
aunt's eyes filling again, and would have liked
to spare her. Somehow to-day she was trying
to do her best actively, with a stealthy sense of
unreality beneath.

'You are quite sure you don't want the
house ? ' said Mabel, ready to sob again.

Not unless you wish it, auntie dear.'

'You know I would be utterly wretched
there ! ' cried Mabel, flashing forth a moment.
A western town ! — And right after Europe ! —
It is cruel to propose such a thing — I thought
Agatha knew — knew, and cared for — me — more.

Let me add that you won't take the house

said Beth. 'That is decided. No one, dear
auntie, wants you to go where you will be unhappy.'


I don't know,' said Mrs. Trescott, between
her sobs ; ' but — we can take another house —
later — if you — want to.'

1 1 shan't want one until you do, rest assured,'
said Beth in a cheery tone ; and then she
hurriedly added a few words to the angry pages,
and took the letter away, promising herself not
to mail it, but keep it quietly until the next
day. Mabel might regret some of the harsh
things she had said by that time. Beth did not
yet understand that for Mrs. Trescott to regret
anything sufficiently to wish to take it back
would be to shatter the whole fabric of her
character.

In the rich luxurious room to which Beth
now returned a very Cleopatra in variability was
lying on the lounge, ready to burst into tears
again, or to be coaxed into smiles.

Beth did not excite either. At such a time
her tenderness was especially healing. And
now, as she stood at the head of the couch, and
smoothed the burning forehead, not speaking a
word, but covering Mabel with the shelter of
her care, she soothed her almost to sleep.

Finally she left her on tiptoe, and went into
her own room, and put on her white wrapper,
and bathed her face. What a full day it had
been, and how tired she was !

But she must write a few words of explanation
to Aunt Agatha, and thank Uncle Ealeigh,
and say a little something to Margaret, her only
sister ; the two orphans now together.

She had just finished when a well-known
knock came at the door, and Beth hastened to
open it, feeling especially glad to see Evra, now
that she was sore at heart, and impotent to disentangle
the threads of love which seemed to be
tying themselves in a hard knot around her.

The keen ear of the artist instantly detected

the quiver of sorrow and fatigue, however, and
Beth's face was worn, for she was one on whom
worry told more than much physical pain.

What is the matter, dearest ? ' exclaimed
Evra, throwing aside a choice cluster of lilies
and roses to take Beth's hands in both hers.

1 We have had letters '

Letters ? ' interrupted Evra, as she saw it
was hard for Beth to speak. ' I know what that
is ! And they have been hurting my Lily ? It's
cruel ! '

1 It's not me, Evra ; and it could not be
helped. But — Evra ! my father is dead.'

Then the tired heart broke down, and she
buried her face in Evra's breast and cried
miserably.

The artist held her with the utmost tenderness,
saying many endearing things, and, with
ready comprehension, trying to strengthen rather
than soothe her.

1 am ashamed,' said Beth presently. ' It

was foolish in me to break down so. You must
not think it is only my father's death she added,
sensitive to the least suspicion of hypocrisy.
We have seen nothing of him for years, and I
hardly knew him. It was the shock, I suppose,
and auntie's being quite upset by some plans.
They wish us to go home as soon as possible, and
auntie feels badly about it. I have been trying
to help her, and never thought of crying until I
saw you.'

Because you knew I would understand, care.
It has worn you out, supporting your aunt. Ita
shame for one so delicate to be tried so. Don't
bother about the flowers now. Come, lie down
here, and let me sit beside you. Your hands are
burning, child. This will never do. I shall
carry you off, and keep all trouble from you.
If I only could, dear ! '

She made Beth lie down, and covered her
with a shawl, petting her like a baby.

Now, you are not to say a word, mind. Just

give me your hand. Such dainty fingers ! ' She
went on in an undertone to keep Beth quiet :
Feeling fingers, too : if I were ill, or sad, I
know these could charm my trouble all away.
Persons have such different hands. Mine, now ;
they are large, and not a bit pretty, but I can
feel, can see, with them as though each finger
had an eye. If I were blind, I think I could
almost tell the colour of your little roseleaf
hands. Ah, don't snatch it away so, dear !
Well, if you insist, I shall just lay my head
here, and we will be quite still.'

A few moments passed silently ; Beth's eyes
were closed, with that strained look which shows
they have difficulty in closing. There were heavy
shadows beneath, and her cheeks were pallid.

While Evra was watching her anxiously the
large eyes suddenly opened.

1 think I hear auntie moving,' she said, half
rising. ' I must go and see if I can do anything
for her.'

You shall keep quiet, my dear,' remarked
Evra firmly. ' She probably isn't a quarter so
much used up as you are. I will go. I will
give her some of your flowers.'

Mrs. Trescott was dressing languidly with a
dark shadow on her face. She paid little attention
to what Evra said, although she took the
flowers with faint thanks.

1 am very sorry you are in trouble,' continued
Evra. e Is there anything I can do to
help you throw off the blues ? Come to dine
with us, will you ? Mother will be delighted,
and it will seem pleasant than for you two to
be staying here alone. Will you ? '

Does Beth want to go ? '

I don't know. Will you, if she does ? She is
used up entirely, poor child,' she added in a low
tone. ' She needs something to take her mind off.'

e Well, I don't care what I do. It makes
little difference where I am. You must excuse
my lack of cordiality, but you see '

Oil yes ; I understand. And now, Lily,'
returning to the other room, ' what do you say ?
Will you take dinner with us ? It will make it
easier for you, dearest,' she said, bending to kiss
the smooth white brow.

It is very good of you ; I am afraid we will
be poor company. But I should like to go, if
you don't mind.'

Well, I do mind, decidedly ! I would like
to have you every hour of the twenty-four, and
every day of the week. Now, what can I do for
you ? Your conscience is quieted, for Mrs. Trescott
has shut the door, and you are to let me
serve you. You are to give me the pleasure of
doing something for one I love

Sing to me, then.'

Sitting there by Beth's lounge, on a lowly
tabouret, the great artist sang ballad after ballad,
and lullabies ; and at last, by some secret attraction,
sacred songs, full of strength and
richness.

Bethesda was soon entranced beyond all
thought of worry. Music was a real potency in
her life, and she was quickly attuned to harmony.
Now she thought, with a hushed wonder,
of how intricately the hope of redeeming her
father was woven into all her own musical
studies. And now — now — was this all she would
ever know of fatherhood ?

The glorious voice soared, and lifted her on
its strong wings. She felt there must be something
more. For is there any art which expresses
religion so well as music ? The craving,
the aspiration, the harmony, the insubstantiality
which comes so near being pure spirituality, —
what is more like religion ? A keynote found
and held is necessary to all harmony. Then
the innumerable chords, the notes so distant, yet
the same ; the sounds that come, perhaps, from
wooden keys, and end — who knows where ? — are
combined, multiplied, reproduced, in a true order,
which allows of no discord, and which are merged

into the eternal symphony of creation, by the
sure triumph of a great and patient musician.

Who with an ear for music can wonder that
Saint Cecilia should have heard the continuation
of her strains, and believed they were from
heaven ?

Evra looked up finally, and found Bethesda
lying in the twilight, her eyes shining, and
solemn, and tender.

My darling ! ' she exclaimed, putting her
hand upon her almost as if to hold her down.

'Yes, dear said Beth softly, 'your singing
has done me much good. It has taken all the
soreness out of my heart. You are very good
to me.'

I good to you ! Well, that is a way ! But
now I must go home. I have to announce your
arrival to mamma. Come soon, won't you,
dearest ? '

1 To depict such a character is like trying to catch a meteor
and make it sit for its picture.' — Mrs. Jameson.

To fertilise an arid grief, one must strike deep, even to the
waters of truth, which underlie all lives as streams underlie all

lands.

During the next few days there were many talks
between Mrs. Trescott and Beth, which were both
exciting and exhausting ; for Mrs. Trescott was
a very tempest of emotion, and dissolved in a
torrent of tears, or fired into furious anger,
according as she felt herself more abused or
insulted. Mrs. Stanhope had no right to dictate
to her, bid her stay, or call her home, as if she
were a puppet ! She could judge for herself.
She wouldn't go home until she chose. The
trail of the serpent was over all America now ;

she could not bear to think of returning ! And
then tears again.

The truth was, that the imperceptible release
of self-control during the careless life she had led
of late had crept within. Superficial treatment
cures no disease ; it but forces it inward to work
destruction on the vital organs. Her desire to
find pleasure in exterior things, so that she might
forget the hollowness beneath, took from her
interior strength. Beth, perhaps, had been the
one link which had bound her to her old life ;
the one, at least, that she could not ignore.
Yet Beth was the reason, or the excuse, of their
staying abroad, and when it was taken away
Mabel collapsed, and felt the cruelty of her own
emptiness. Now came the revenge of unused
energies, of crushed capacities ; now she began
to poignantly feel that there was a lack somewhere,
and she laid it on the first things that
came to hand, and believed her sorrow all to
arise from the unkindness of her friends.

Numerous plans were, of course, canvassed.
Mrs. Trescott unwillingly admitted the necessity
of returning home during the summer, but she
set the time in July, because then the Stanhopess
would probably be at the seaside, and she would
feel more "independent," where they met on equal
ground, than when visiting at their house. What
the ultimate decision about settling would be
was vague as a summer wind. Mabel did not
wish to give up Mr. Stanhope as manager of her
affairs, for he was a man of the strictest integrity
and admirable business capacity; but at the same
time she was violently opposed to sacrificing
any of her own inclinations in order to retain
him. Beth advised her taking the money into
her own care, and settling wherever she chose ;
but Mabel would not listen to this.

'I cannot manage money affairs, and you
know it. I should lose it all. I must have my
money safe ; but my letting him do that for me
does not mean that I am going to slavishly submit

to whatever he dictates. It is ungenerous
to take such advantage of a woman.'

The matter was a weary treadmill of reiterated
assertions, questions, and lamentations ; and Beth
was completely at a loss as to what was best to be
done. In lieu of anything better, she came to look
upon the anticipated arrival of M. d'Isten as a relief.
Her aunt was morbid, and perhaps she would recover
her usual tone if her thoughts were transferred
from herself to another for even a short space.

Beth's conscience, however, was not thoroughly
easy about her part in bringing to pass this
meeting. She knew her aunt was given to
imprudent confidences, and Aunt Agatha had
said when her sister had first written enthusiastically
of M. d'Isten :

1 Mabel gains less knowledge from experience
than any person I ever knew. At her age she
ought to be wiser than to accept these Platonic
friendships, which may end well, and may not, —
probably not.'

VOL. I. I

Beth herself had not been at all prepossessed
in the fine gentleman's favour, yet now she found
herself almost glad he was coming. The present
always in these days seemed the imperative thing
to Bethesda.

Mrs. Trescott, on the other hand, was half
sorry she had allowed him the privilege of
seeing her, and looked forward to it as another
wear and tear on her poor nerves, to which she
was hardly equal.

Supposing I tell you about it, and let him
try and explain to you,' she even went so far as
to say; but Beth stopped her right there.

• I could not think of that, Aunt Mabel ; you
know it would not be right. On the contrary, I
am going down to Evra's to-night.'

You shan't do any such thing ! ' asserted Mrs.
Trescott imperiously.

Wait a minute until I tell you why,' said
Beth, smiling a little at the sudden explosion.
If you are going to have an explanation with

M. d'Isten, I would be entirely de trop, and it
would be awkward for all if I went away then.'

1 You won't be de trop. I told him at the very
beginning of our acquaintance that I didn't
choose to have secrets. We can speak as easily
before you as not. He will think you know
all."

But since you have chosen to keep me in
ignorance ,' said Beth quietly, ' I cannot consent
to play a false part. I know nothing about your
misunderstanding '

It wasn't a misunderstanding ; it was an
insult.'

And you are oping; to receive him, Aunt
Mabel ! However, as I was saying, I know
nothing about it, and you might speak easily
before me, but he would not. Since you are
going to allow him to explain, it is mere justice
to let him have a fair opportunity. He would
know that I was criticising; him, and it could not
help but be awkward.'

Suppose you consider my feelings a little,
instead of his altogether exclaimed Mabel
testily.

Beth's eyes flashed, but she only said :

So I do, in going away.'

'You entirely mistake what the explanation
will be,' said Mrs. Trescott in a less offensive
tone, as she saw Beth's resolution. ' There isn't
a chance of his justifying himself, or making an
adequate apology. At the most it will only be
that we shall not remain angry, — although I
don't even see how that can be.'

I will come back early, so as to relieve you
if you need it.'

Then you are set upon going to Evra's ? '

If you please ; for the first hour or so. '

You always have your own way,' said Mabel,
in a martyred tone. c Of course you will do as
you like.'

Beth found it very hard to do anything which
would please her aunt these days. The only way

she could hold herself at all upright was to think
well before she spoke, and then not flinch from
her decision. Her instinct was to veer with the
desires of those around her, but it is impossible
for a character of any consistency to adapt itself
to the exigencies of a radically inconsistent
nature ; and this Beth was discovering.

Mrs. Trescott was looking particularly handsome
when Beth left her. She had gone over
the causes for offence which this man had given
her until her anger was newly aroused, and she
was prepared to meet him with biting frigidity.
There was an extra pride in her carriage, and a
brilliance to her eyes, which made Beth remember
that one of her admirers had said he always made
it a point to anger her occasionally, for the
pleasure of studying her in a fury. Beth could
recall twenty times at least, when just such a
scene as this had been prepared because of some
trifling; circumstance which Mrs. Trescott had
construed into a lack of respect. This was her

most sensitive point. With tact, and constant
remembrance of this peculiarity, one could coax
or lead her unawares further than she knew ;
but, touch her sense of self-esteem by carelessness
or intent, and she was instantly a-fire to
avenge the insult. Only through appealing to
her strong emotional temperament could such an
error be retrieved, and even then the offence
was not extinguished, but rather smouldered,
ready to leap into flame if the slightest fault uncovered
it.

Beth found Evra alone, and was greeted with
the utmost delight.

I shall always like this stranger for sending
you to me this evening,' she said. ' Mamma has
gone off to take a nap, and we can have the
cosiest time ! But where did the man drop
from ? Paris ? Well, they will have a fine time
making up their quarrel. I don't think anybody
would find it easy to approach Mrs. Trescott
when she was vexed. And one never is quite

sure of her. There are few one is. You are a
rare pearl ; I would trust you with anything,
and know you would be my friend, sure and
true, through it all.'

If I once believe, it is very hard for me to
mistrust,' replied Beth gravely. ' I think you
can rely upon me.'

I And I know I can.'

Evra was in an unusually entertaining mood
that evening, and diversified her stories with
snatches of new songs, which made the time fly.
At last, to Beth's dismay, she heard the clock
strike half past ten. She sprang up, really
annoyed at her thoughtlessness.

I I said I would be home early,' she exclaimed.
• It is too bad ; I ought not to have stayed so long.'

She threw her Algerian wrap around her as
she spoke, and drew the hood over her head.

You look like a white penitent in that,' said
Evra. ' Don't grieve, dear. Mrs. Trescott has
had her time occupied, I venture.'

Perhaps, but I ought not to have forgotten,'
replied Beth, in a tone that made Evra exclaim :

Well, you are an exemplary child, and it
shows your good heart, so I won't say a word
more. Good-nights

Beth told the coachman to drive fast, and
when they reached the house she ran upstairs
swiftly, but stopped a moment at the door to
regain her breath.

Not a sound was to be heard within, and,
fearful that the stranger had gone, which would
make her delinquency seem worse, she pushed
open the door quickly.

A tall man, with a proud, dark head, was
leaning against the mante], half-facing her. His
features were evidently under the contre-coup of
some strong emotion. His eyes were resting on
Mrs. Trescott, who sat in a low chair, her face
buried in her handkerchief.

Every detail of the scene photographed itself
as with flame on Beth's mind. She stood still a

second in complete surprise. They apparently
had not heard her enter, and the first instinct
was to slip away unseen. Her second, which
she followed, to shut the door with sufficient
noise to attract attention, and to walk quickly
across the long room.

M. d'lsten started, and his attitude, his expression,
his whole being seemed to change. He
was only a deferential stranger by the time Beth
reached her aunt. She laid her hand on Mabel's
shoulder and said anxiously :

Can I do anything for you, auntie ? '

Mrs. Trescott glanced up with a flash of excitement
in her eyes which soon dried their
moisture.

Oh, Beth ! ' she exclaimed, ' Rene is my good
friend again, my dear friend ! He must be yours
too. Greet him warmly, for I admire him '

Her voice trembled and broke. She drew
Beth forward to put her hand in his. The girl
was completely mystified, and held back a

BETHESDA. [part i.

minute. M. d'lsten stood by, making no effort
to deprecate the warm words ; but, looking up,
Beth saw his face was lit by an expression of
gratitude both manly and sincere.

She gave him her hand.

My aunt's friends will, I hope, always be
mine,' she said.

He bowed profoundly, just touched her hand,
and immediately took up his hat and gloves.

Don't go yet,' said Mabel. ' I have not
even offered you a pinch of salt. We must
ratify our compact, as do your mother's race, or
it may not hold.'

Then I shall surely stay,' he replied, with
that indescribable elegance of pronunciation
which so fascinates those who can appreciate it.

Beth slipped away, to lay aside her snowy
wrappings and to order cake and wine. She did
not return until the servant entered with the
tray. Mrs. Trescott and M. d'lsten seemed to
have recovered something of their usual manner,

j

although the gentleman was extremely quiet,
and Mrs. Trescott never looked at him without
an eloquent reminiscence in her eyes.

Beth shall be our Hebe,' she said ; ' she shall
pour out the wine, and we will forget everything,
to drink to our long friendship.'

Beth obeyed her aunt in silence. The health
was drunk solemnly, Beth taking a sip from
her oiass while watching the others. She was
employing all her powers of discernment in quick
scrutiny of this man.

He was pre - eminently aristocratic ; his
manners were not only courteous, but courtly.
He appeared reticent, in spite of a frank grace
which was very attractive. Everything about
him was fine, yet Beth had to acknowledge that
there was no lack of strength. The lower part
of his face was less developed than the upper
portion, which was full of power, but the line
from ear to chin was excellent ; decisive and
lenient at the same time. As for the eyes, Beth

only knew they were dark, for whenever she
met them hers fell instantly. He was also
studying her. with close, if unobtrusive attention.
It seemed to result in little, however, for
when he left there was no less coldness in her
manner, and only a little added deference in his.
He responded with deep appreciation to Mrs.
Trescott's earnest wishes for a speedy return from
Rome, and bent over her hand as if kindness
had been rare to him.

You must return before it is too warm,' she
said, ' so that we can show you the sights. Beth
and I know all the places worth seeing, and will
gladly be your cicerone ; won't we, Beth ? '

Certainly.'

And do take board here ; it is so much
pleasant to have friends in the same house,'
continued Mrs. Trescott, who seemed only anxious
to atone for past misunderstandings, and to prove
that they were all forgotten.

1 What can it mean ? ' thought Beth. This

entire reversal of circumstances bewildered her.
It could only be explained by the consistency of
inconsistency, as Mrs. Jameson terms such a
character as Mabel Trescott's.

When the door closed Mrs. Trescott turned
to Beth as if to claim her admiration ; but, seeing
the lack of comprehension and the astonishment
which Beth now allowed her face to express, she
turned away, and walked up and down the room,
thinking.

So the explanation was satisfactory ? ' said
Beth at last.

Before Mabel answered she put her arm
around her niece and drew her into the promenade.
They took a few turns in silence.

Well ? ' said Beth presently. This lack of
speech was as remarkable as the rest of it.

I am trying to think what 1 can tell you.
Most that he said was in confidence.'

1 Indeed!' remarked Beth, a trifle satirically.

If you had been here it might have been — - —

But no ; he would not have spoken then. Oh,
Beth V she cried, stopping suddenly, 'when I
think of what he has done, what he is doing now,
to-night, I can unhesitatingly assert that his
conduct is a lifelong act of self-control and
magnanimity unequalled in history or fiction ! '

Her eyes blazed superbly, and she stood erect,
as if proud to be such a man's friend.

■ That is high praise,' said Beth. This was all
mysterious, and her reason desired something
more solid to satisfy it. Presently she asked :

You are going to be friends again, now ? '

Of course we are ! The best of friends ! I
admire him more than any man I ever knew.
He is so true, and pure, and unselfish. You
know nothing about it, Beth.'

I know I do not. If I am to meet him,
can't you tell me how this great change in your
opinions came about ? Did he have any sufficient
apology for what you called, only this afternoon,
an insult ? '

I can't explain that without your knowing
the whole. He could not himself. There was
no explanation ; he did not attempt to make
any. But he begged my forgiveness with a
sincerity and humility which no one could withstand.
When he regretted his fault, I could do
nothing but forgive, could I V

I suppose not. But it was not this that
made you so extremely cordial ? '

No ; that was because of what he told me
afterwards. I said, " We will let bygones be
bygones," but I could not help feeling formal
with him, and that hurt him. Finally he said,
as if he had been thinking' of it a long time, " I
must tell you what may palliate my error. I
cannot go away feeling that the friendship you
gave me has become cold ; " and then he asked
me to consider what he might tell me as a sacred
confidence. I said, " I never make promises,"
but he trusted me, and told me. Oh, I wish I
could tell you ! '

Beth could not imagine a recital which would
cause such a change, and she felt that her aunt was
too prejudiced in the man's favour now, as she had
before been against him, to be entirely trustworthy.

I think I can tell you this much,' resumed
Mabel. ' It is relative to his wife, and he has
acted in the noblest, the most disinterested way
I ever could imagine.'

She stopped, and laid her hand on the girl's
arm to give full effect to her next words.

Beth, you know I am generally on the
woman's side, and that I have high ideas of
what a man's duties are to his wife. Well, I
tell you — I — that this man is an ideal husband.'

He told you this himself?' suggested the
girl timidly.

1 Yes, yes ; I know,' was the impatient reply ;
but it is not from words I judge, only acts.
He tried to keep himself in the background as
much as he could. And, Beth, there was the
ring of truth in it all ; you could not mistrust

him. Why, his face worked so with emotion that,
after the first glance, I dared not look at him !
It is the only time he has ever mentioned it, and
you would have been overcome by the sound of
suppressed suffering in his voice, just as I was.'

Beth was considerably touched by her aunt's
emotion at least.

Why did he come here V she said finally.
Is he going to stay in Italy long ? '

Why did he come ? To consummate his act
of sacrifice !' Her eyes fired anew at the thought.
He is going now to Eome to do what no other
man would dream of doing. I can only admire
him while I regret it. He told me it all. He has
never had any one in whom to confide, and this
was almost Why ! it was like a dying confession.
It is a question of life and death to him V

The full lips began to tremble, and another
outburst was imminent. Beth was startled by
the last words, but said lightly :

Take care, auntie ; you will prejudice me

VOL. I. K

against your friend again. I shall hate him if
he is going to make you feel badly

It isn't that so much said Mabel, somewhat
incoherently, ' as because I was all used up before,
with — with Agatha's letter. It seems as if
love — never did — do any — good.'

Beth passed her hand caressingly over the
dark curls.

Whatever this M. d'Isten may have had in his
life, auntie dear,' she said, ' you have at least one
heart which is devoted to you. Isn't that something
? '

Indeed it is,' said Mabel, trying to recover
herself. ' You are all I have, Beth, but you area
great deal more than he is.'

Beth went away in a few moments to her
little study. Her mind was in confusion among
all these tumultuous ideas, and her predominating
thought was, that her dear auntie was preparing
sorrow for herself.

But what can I do V she thought helplessly.

Every spendthrift to passion is debtor to thought.'

Owen Meredith.

For the next few weeks Beth worried constantly
about her aunt. She did not seem to recover
from what had begun with her sister's letter anymore
at the end of a fortnight than she had the
first day. The influence of M. d'Isten's visit had
lasted only while he was present. She had
fallen again into abject depression.

The insensibility of the affair was what routed
every idea for bettering matters. Beth suggested
that they should take a little trip through
Northern Italy. No, Mabel would not hear of it.
She would not deprive Beth of her lessons, at
which, now, she had her last chance. It was a

thing she must endure, she said, and one place
was the same as another.

Beth coaxed her out on excursions through
the beautiful spring land, with the fragrant air
blowing in their faces, and the exquisite sky
overhead. Mabel would seem to enjoy it while
she was out, but came home to cry in a doleful
manner, which made Beth feel hopeless.

6 She must be going to have the fever,' she
said one day to Evra, in an extra hour of
anxiety.

If she does, mamma and I will take care of
her ; but it's much more likely you will have it,
my pet, with those great circles growing under
your eyes, and actual hollows coming in your
cheeks. Do take care of yourself, darling.'

I only want to take care of auntie,' replied
the girl.

But still, finding herself impotent to do anything
actively for her aunt, who preferred solitude,
and shut herself into her room many hours

alone, Beth allowed herself to be coaxed away
oftener than she should have done. This, again,
made Mabel feel neglected, and so the trouble
grew and grew, like a snowball rolled over innumerable
times.

Mingled with this, and increasing it, was the
state of affairs with Monsieur d'Isten.

At first Mabel had often talked of him, and
would read aloud parts of the letters which she
received frequently. They aroused Beth's interest
by their style and language, but she felt
the constraint of the secret between him and her
aunt, and being obliged to take everything on
trust where her disapproval had been excited and
not allayed, could only be a spectator of the
friendship. This Mrs. Trescott felt was cold and
selfish, and gradually she came to not mentioning
him, except when something directly occurred
to introduce his name.

It was the first time that there had ever been
any prolonged misunderstanding between Beth

and her aunt, and they both felt it keenly. Each
made valiant efforts to overcome it, but, after the
first expansion, the result was always the same,
for there was a mutual disapproval, and neither
could give way. Now came the recognition that
their principles were opposed. Mabel laid it all
to Agatha's influence, and Beth knew it was the
growth of her own individuality, and the fact
that she held opinions which she would not allow
to be melted into oil to make the wheels of life
run smoothly.

When the answer came to Mrs. Trescott's
passionate epistle, which she had, of course, sentit
showed the corresponding disappointment and
sorrow on the other side ; and Mrs. Trescott
asserted that the sisterly bond which had united
Agatha to her was broken for ever, and that there
was nothing to be done but to accept the fact as
an irreparable loss. If she could have had something
to fight she would have grown strong with
the necessity, but this sudden collapse of her

past, present, and future, as she put it, left her
nothing but despair.

You must have patience with me, and let me
adjust myself to circumstances as best I can she
would say to Beth drearily. ' It is hard, hard,
any way.'

'The only way is to have them meet, and
meantime give auntie something to do,' thought
the girl at last ; and she determined to take the
reins from her aunt's listless hands, and use all
her influence to leave Florence, and start towards
home earlier. In Paris there would be the interminable
shopping, and this would keep her
aunt busy, and occupy her mind.

"Whether Mrs. Trescott felt the relief of another's
deciding for her, or saw the advisability
of Beth's plan, and was glad of change, she
yielded with little difficulty, and stipulated only
that they should be in no hurry. She was willing
to please Beth, but she could not get in a flurry ;
that would only be to make her ill.

Evra meantime felt somewhat hurt that her
Lily did not respond more adequately to her
devotion. Her love for Bethesda, who represented
to her all that was uplifting, calm, and
pure, was absorbing in its intensity. She wished
the girl to feel and call her dearest, but Beth
could not allow her to deceive herself with the
thought an instant.

My sister is the nearest to me she said
gravely. * I don't think I can love any one
better than I do her. And then there is Aunt
Mabel and Aunt Agatha. But, Evra, you are the
dearest friend I have

'Friend!' exclaimed the passionate woman putting
unutterable meanings in the word, and looking
down on Beth from her superior height almost
scornfully. But only for a moment. Then she would
fall at her feet and cry out, as if in actual pain :

1 Be my friend, Lily ! Don't give me up ! I
can't lose you. My heart ached for you for years.
Be my dear, wise, faithful friend.'

I will try,' said Beth, distressed. ' You know
you can trust me, Evra, to be always your
friend.'

I know it, I know it,' sighed the artist. ' I
will try to be content.'

All this pained Beth. She felt the weight of
being loved unwisely, if not too well. She was
coming to a vague conception of the difference
between being idolised and idealised. One is
slavery, the other freedom. One says : What
you are now is to me perfection ; I never wish
you to alter or move. Let me bow down before
you. This cases a living being in stone, and
death inevitably ensues. The other says : I see
great possibilities in you. You have the strength
to develop them to their utmost. I trust in you.
This gives the spirit wings, and the fullest life is
the result.

Beth was feeling the restriction of her pedestal.
It made a very narrow platform. She was afraid
to stir lest she should fall off, and to stand still

was inimical to all growth. What could she
do?

At last one day in April Beth came home
from a ride with Evra, in which her aunt had
not cared to join. She heard Mrs. Trescott's
voice, in unusually gay tones, evidently conversing
with callers. The door was open, however,
and she could not slip by unperceived ; soin
her habit, with her hair considerably shaken
by a brisk canter, she entered, to find herself
confronted by that person before whom she
someway especially wished to appear formal —
Monsieur d'lsten.

He rose instantly, becoming grave as he did
so ; but Mabel exclaimed, laughing :

Oh, you are caught, Beth ! Never mind.
Our good friend has taken us by surprise, hasn't
he ? '

By this time Bethesda had recovered her self-possession,
and greeted the guest with quiet
stateliness. In any guise she could appear both

beautiful and dignified. Seating herself at some
little distance she thought she would excuse herself
in as short a time as politeness would allow ;
but during that period she discovered that her
aunt was quite changed from her late self, and
was brighter than she had seen her in a longtime.
M. d'Isten also seemed to have lost all
his seriousness in Borne, and there was a continual
play of words between the two which was
pleasant to witness. Beth had a keen appreciation
of wit, and found her severity melting under
these clever hits.

Perhaps it is just what auntie needs,' she
thought. ' Some one she likes, and yet who is
new to her. He may entertain her, and while
they are going around Florence together, I can
spend these days freely with Evra.'

And she went into luncheon more cordially
disposed than she had cared to be before.

The conversation was about Borne, its wonders
and its contrasts of ancient and modern life ; nota

new subject by any means, but Beth found
herself often surprised by some quiet originality,
some sure criticism, or a turn of thought which
presented the matter in a broader light, and connected
it subtly with many diverging facts.

Mrs. Trescott seemed delighted.

Stay a fortnight,' she said to her entertaining
friend, 'and we will have some charming
days. This is just the time to see Florence.
There is nothing so lovely as an Italian spring, is
there ? '

4 1 can hardly admit that,' answered M. d'Isten.
'My own land is in the south, you know, and
what is familiar is always most beautiful. And
we have the sea.'

1 Oh yes ; I had forgotten your devotion to
that. Beth can sympathise with you there.
She finds nothing so grand as the ocean.'

Mademoiselle is surely right,' he said, glancing
at her with a veiled curiosity. This reserved
maiden was a new study to him. ' If you like

the sea, mademoiselle lie added, addressing her
directly for almost the first time, ' I am convinced
yon would find N charming.'

Did yon say it was in the Pyrenees, monsieur
? ' she asked with interest. ' I have always
wished to travel there.'

It is the most beautiful corner in the whole
range,' he replied, his face lighting. ' Imagine
a valley opening at the south to the sea, with
lofty peaks rising at the north and east, and a
long spur extending into the water at the west.
It ends in an abrupt cliff, where the waves
always dash high, even in the calmest weather.
That is where I intend to build my castle,' he
added, turning with a smile to Mrs. Trescott.

1 Yes ? Well I hope you will finish it by
the time we go there. We certainly must some
day. And now let us plan about what we are
Soin; to do here.'

Beth noticed the slight shade that fell again
upon M. d'Isten's face.

1 Why doesn't auntie lend herself to his
mood ? ' she wondered. ' He must be very fond
of his home, and that is always a good trait in a
man ; but I thought he was from Algeria.'

At this point she was appealed to by her aunt.

I suppose you are too tired, Beth, to go out
this afternoon ? So we will put off our drive to
Fiesole until tomorrow.'

Oh, don't wait for me,' said Beth quickly.
This will be a lovely afternoon for the view. You
had better not postpone it.'

Indeed we will. It would not be half the
pleasure without her, would it, Bene ? '

Mademoiselle's presence would necessarily
enhance our pleasure ; but she may not
desire '

She is always delighted with driving interrupted
Mabel. ' And she can tell you a great
deal more than I can about all the things you
will see. So we will consider it settled for tomorrow
at three, if convenient to you.'

• I am entirely at your command said M.
d'Isten ; and Beth acquiesced silently.

She was not going to be tied to entertaining
this man, however, she told herself. She wanted
to be with Evra ; and he was her aunt's friend,
not hers. Besides, she was not attracted by him.
He was a refined and cultured man, undoubtedly;
he might be wonderfully noble — she knew nothing
about that ; but there was something hard
about his eyes — it had disappeared for an instant
when he mentioned his home — and he was self-conscious,
she thought, in his very self-forgetfulness,
as if that were a duty and not a spontaneous
impulse. He lacked fire, she decided, and
she never did like a man who failed in warmth.

At this juncture she glanced up, but met his
eyes, and hers instantly fell.

What flash of comprehension was there in his
face ? Had he read her thoughts ? In any case
it rebuked her. Was her penetration so sure
that she should condemn a man on that hasty

proof alone ? There was no call for her to plunge
into the depths and discover all the hidden meanings
of his. physiognomy. He was her aunt's
friend, and all she had to do with him was to be
grateful for his rescuing Mrs. Trescott from the
slough of despond.

When he held the door open for her to pass
out she smiled up at him and said :

6 My aunt is already brightened by your coming.
She has not been well, and the pleasure of
showing Florence to you will benefit her, I am
sure.'

She will confer upon me a great favour if
she can make me of use. I thank you for suggesting
the possibility, mademoiselle,' he replied,
with a politeness as impersonal as her own.

During the next few days Mrs. Trescott
thought of nothing, to all appearance, but to
peter M. d'Isten.

He has had such a sad life,' she would say
to Beth, ' that I want to make this time as

pleasant as possible to him — a kind of oasis in
his life.'

'Does she never think remarked Evra one
day, when Mabel had left them with some such
words still echoing in the air, ' that she may
make it too pleasant for him ? '

1 1 don't think there can be any danger of
that,' replied Beth gravely. ' Aunt Mabel is
always most sensitive to any such possibility.
You see she is nine years older than he is.'

That may be ; but it is none of my business.
And you, certainly, are not over cordial to him.
Don't you like him, dear ? '

I hardly know him,' said Beth, a little
troubled. ' He seems to be more pleasant than
ordinary acquaintances one makes, and yet '

I understand. Don't let's bother over him
any more. You and I are enough for one
another, aren't we, sweet ? '

The truth was, they were too much absorbed

in one another. It annoyed Mrs. Trescott.
vol. 1. L

I You don't pay any attention to my friend,'
she cried one day, in a fit of exasperation. ' I
am much more cordial with your friend than you
are with mine. How would you like it if I
avoided Evra, and were cold with her, as you are
with M. d'Isten ? You would think me very
unkind and hard.'

'Excuse me, Aunt Mabel, but it is not the
same. You like Evra for herself ; I do not like
M. distend

Why don't you like him, then ? It is mere
prejudice, of which you ought to be ashamed.'

It is a prejudice you gave me.'

I I have wiped all that out. I have forgiven
it. What is it to you ? You don't even know
what was the matter. If you met him in an
ordinary way you would have to take him on
trust — as I did when I first met him.'

Then my aunt would not have told me he
had " insulted" her.'

Don't say that ! It is altogether too strong

a word any way. And since you know nothing
about it, and I do, and I know him and his
whole life, can't you believe me when I tell
you he is noble and well worthy any woman's
friendship ? '

I can take him as your friend on that, which
is what I have tried to do.'

It is only as my friend that I wish you to
take him ; but, instead of being cordial for my
sake, you treat him more coldly than you do anyone
else.'

I did not mean to. I am sorry if I appeared
to do so. I am ill at ease with him ; he does
not appeal to me at all ; I suppose that is the
trouble.'

At any rate, you might treat him with
ordinary courtesy,' exclaimed Mabel.

I think even he, who is certainly most
courteous, would say I am never otherwise,'
replied Bethesda proudly, and went
away.

She took herself to task, however, when the
heat of this little passage had evaporated, for she
was almost morbidly sensitive to rebuke. Why-did
not she like him 1 He was in many respects
what she most admired, as her aunt often insisted
; distingue, intelligent, and cultivated ; an
admirable conversationalist, and quick in mind,

but "Well, he did not touch her. She

could not like a person who was unsympathetic
to her, but she would try still more to be cordial
to him on her aunt's account. Yet she was determined
not to let it interfere with being a
large part of her time with Evra. The girl knew
that the artist's career Guinevere had chosen was
full of trial, because in voicing the emotions she
stirred all that portion of her nature condemned
to silence. Bethesda understood that she was
interposed between the artist's triumph and the
woman's grief. She, and she alone, could bethe
instrument to respond to every touch of
Guinevere's complex nature, and unite them inharmonious

accord. Was this to be given up
for the sake of being constantly with M. distend
indeed !

The next morning, however, a riding party
was formed, in which all joined. It was a perfect
day, with a cool breeze blowing over the
blossoming orchards, and as they entered the
carriage to drive around for Evra, Beth had the
brightness of anticipated pleasure in her face,
and was more natural than she had ever been
with M. d'Isten present.

He did not fancy ladies riding. Amazons
did not appeal to his keen sense of the womanly,
and Beth was very w r ell aw r are of the fact. She
had tried to avoid the party from her natural
dislike to doing anything another did not find
pleasurable ; but Mrs. Trescott was longing for a
gallop, and thought that in the informality of an
excursion Beth and Bene might break through
the dignified reticence which separated them ; so
she insisted, and Beth was now silently defying

with a gay heart the equally silent disapproval
of his lordship.

When they reached Mrs. Conover's, however,
and Beth went in through the sunshine that
flooded the southern archway, her violet habit
outlining the rounded figure to perfection, and
the long plumes of her velvet cap mingling with
the solid coils of bronze hair, he could not help
admitting that a true woman will be womanly in
any position. He turned to Mrs. Trescott with
the first compliment for Beth that he had ever
uttered.

'Your niece, madame,' he said deliberately,
c is one of the most exquisite of women.'

I knew you would like her ! ' exclaimed Mabel
triumphantly. ' Even your difficult taste would
be conquered by her. She said you would be
bored by the riding, but I told her you would
find her and Miss Conover so charming en
amazone that you could not be bored

Certainly not, — with you,' he replied courteously,

but Miss Hamilton's quick intuition did
not escape him.

In a few moments the two girls reappeared,
Miss Conover a very Diana in her green dress,
with golden curls breaking out from under the
stiff English hat, and shortly after they had
reached the four horses awaiting them with the
grooms outside the Cascine gates.

They had planned to go to a villa and chapel
off towards the sea-coast, where the views and
works of art were alike beautiful. To reach it
they could pass through the Cascine and strike
off across the meadows, and all were in the mood
for a rustic day.

The bijou park looked irresistibly lovely as
they entered it. A quadruple avenue of trees
arched feathery branches overhead in a tangle of
fine lines against the deep sky. At one side of
the carriage-way was a grassy space shaded by live
oaks intertwined with ivy, now fresh with tender
green. A bridle-path ran parallel with the road,

and on the outer side was a wide ditch separating
the park from a meadow where troops were
practising military manoeuvres. Beyond were
the villa dotted mountains rising in purple beauty
to where the snow crowned them with brilliant.

It was an exquisite scene, and the soft charm
of spring-time was hushing while it thrilled every
nerve. Beth had fallen into silence, and was
recalling that day beneath Michel Angelo's great
David, when it seemed as if each breath of air
were striving to tell her a message, when suddenly
she heard a smothered exclamation, and,
looking back, saw Nero, Mrs. Trescott's horse,
rearing and pawing the air, while M. d'Isten's
bay had started aside with a snort of terror.

Before Mabel could regain control of her
obstreperous steed he had faced about, made a
rush across the road, and, springing high, leaped
hedge and ditch, to land several feet beyond on
the turf of the meadow.

Mrs. Trescott was a woman of great courage,

and when Nero came to the ground, although
she looked a little pale, she nodded reassuringly
to the breathless group above, and let him scour
off with her across the plain, into the very
midst, as it seemed, of the drilling regiments.
The black-robed lady, who rode so well, would
be somewhat of a surprise as an impromptu
visitor on the scene of action.

'Do go after her ! ' exclaimed Beth, appealing
to M. d'Isten. He had already turned to do so,
and now, putting spurs to his horse, took the
ditch, and in a few moments Evra and Beth saw
him gaining on Mrs. Trescott's surveying beast,
which some officers had headed off.

It is not a bad joke to have your disapproving
monsieur obliged to go after Mrs. Trescott
in such a scrape,' said Evra, laughing, as they
put their horses to a trot.

He doesn't ride badly, though, does he 1 '

1 Well enough,' answered Evra carelessly ;
but, I say, Mrs. Trescott does know how to

keep her seat ! That was a stiff jump, and you
aren't accustomed to such things in America,
are you % '

1 No ; auntie learned to ride on an unbroken
colt, but it was never at hurdles ! She ought
not to ride that horse, or else she should have
him obey her. I don't believe in half-way
measures myself.'

Nor I. The measures you have used with
Major meet with my approval. He is as spirited
a horse as Nero, yet he obeys every touch on
the rein.'

'An Englishman taught me to ride, you
know,' answered Beth, with a glance of amusement
at Evra, who was not a little jealous of
Clarence.

But you were a born rider, witch ! '

Oh, I beg your pardon. You should have
seen me going up Vesuvius on horseback at
night during an eruption. It was the first time
I had ever mounted anything but a donkey, and

wasn't I frightened ! You can't think what a
coward I used to be about horses. That was
what made me so anxious to ride. I never
could bear to have any weakness stronger than
I. It makes me ashamed until I can afford to
laugh at it from the safe side of triumph

I am sure no one would dream of accusing
you of being a coward, and I don't believe you
ever were. You have not one whit of anything
but bravery in you. And anyway, if you ever
were timid with horses, it's all the more credit
for you to be so fearless now. So you see,
darling, anyhow you can fix it, you are my
perfect, spotless Lily.'

Don't say that ! ' exclaimed Beth hastily.
You don't know how — how afraid I feel when
you talk so.'

Afraid, children ? '

Yes, as one feels on a dizzy height. I am
always afraid of falling.'

1 Pshaw, dear ; you won't fall.'

They had now crossed the Piazza, bordered
by glistening magnolias, and entered the wilder
portion of the Cascine. Here nature had not
been disturbed. Great branching ivies draped
the budding trees, which were knee-deep in
underbrush and earth-loving vines. Looking
into this forest one fancied oneself a hundred
miles from any habitation, and the constant
twitter and occasional jubilant songs of birds
favoured the delusion. In some more open
spots myrtle blossoms made the ground like ' a
bit of the sky, fallen through from on high,' as
Beth quoted softly, and Evra immediately
beckoned to the groom to pick some.

They had each a cluster of long sprays,
mingled with white violets, before their sylvan
solitude was interrupted. Then, happening to
glance toward the end of the arcade, Beth saw
two equestrian figures outlined like statues
against the sunny atmosphere beyond. Both
tall, slender, and graceful, they were immediately

recognised ; but it was only for a moment
that they remained thus in the light, photographing
a picture on Beth's mind ; then they
entered the shadow of the glade, and soon overtook
the pastoral couple.

What are you doing here ? ' exclaimed Mabel
as they came up.

1 Picking myrtle,' answered Evra, holding up
the swaying bouquet.

During interludes of gathering laurels,' remarked
M. d'lsten quietly.

Merci, monsieur,' said Evra, smiling, ' I see
you rescued our distressed lady ! '

Oh, I wasn't at all in distress,' cried Mrs.
Trescott. 'You are not to flatter him at my
expense, you know. But I confess I was glad to
have a friend by me, among all those officers.
They were very polite, though. Quite an adventure,
wasn't it ? '

One can always be sure you will entrap an
adventure if there is one possible,' said Evra,

laughing. 'Beth and I will have to chaperon
you, as she says.'

Beth had not spoken since they came up, but
as they now all naturally turned towards her she
said abruptly :

Let us go on ; we are late,' and started forward.
I am sure I don't know what it is,' she exclaimed
impatiently to Evra, as they rode on, e but I am
actually growing to dislike this friend of auntie's.'

I cannot see any reason why you should, dear.
He is a gentleman in every sense of the word, and
he really wishes to become acquainted with you.
Give him a chance. It is not like my "just
judge" to condemn a man unheard, and you are
always so cold and dignified with him, he cannot
approach you.'

You think I am at fault with him, then ? '

You could not lack in courtesy to any one,
if you mean that ; but you might be a little less
severely haughty with him. He seems to be
everything one could ask.'

But he is not simpatico, and — don't let's talk
of him any more.'

However, this conversation had some effect
upon Beth. It was easy for her to be pliant to
others' wills when they were not dictatorial ; so,
during the excursion she allowed Evra to fall back
with Mrs. Trescott, and tried to be more freely
receptive of M. d'Tsten's courteous advances. Presently
she found it was not so hard as at first,
and that he really entertained her.

They talked of life in Algeria. He was
charmed with her interest, and she was delighted
to hear one familiar with it speak of a country
which exerted a strange fascination over her.

You were born there, monsieur ? '

Yes, when my mother was hardly sixteen.
They marry young in the South.'

But if Algeria is your native country, how is
it you come to speak so affectionately of the
Pyrenees ? '

Ah, that is the home of my ancestors. The

place where one's own little life comes into existence
has small claims compared with that where
fathers and grandfathers have been born and died.'

It seems unfortunate that one who appreciates
such a home should not date his own birth from
there

My mother had a great antipathy to France
replied M. d'Isten quietly. *' She was devoted to
her own land.'

I should have been in her place,' remarked
Beth carelessly. He flashed a penetrating glance
across her.

Pardon me, mademoiselle, if I doubt that.'

Ah ! ' said Beth, a little startled ; ' you think
one would not like Algeria ? '

' I did not mean that ; it was not a question
of places. You might love your own free land,
for instance, mademoiselle, but there are other
things to which you would sacrifice it.'

He spoke in a tone of quiet assurance which
amused Beth.

• You trust much to your impressions, I see.'

To what else than his perceptions can a person
trust in character ? '

To experience, most would say.'

I am glad you add that. It is unnecessary
for me to point out to you that if one waits for
experience to judge character, one's opportunities
fly by like those birds across the sky.'

And if one trusts to one's impressions, and
they are incorrect ? ' said Beth half reluctantly.

They should not be,' was the prompt reply.

You have caught yourself there ! ' thought
Beth, with a sudden flash in her eyes.

Nay,' he answered, with that quick reading
which to Beth seemed miraculous ; ' one who
judges from impressions must be sure of what
and why the impressions are. Vagueness is
injustice.'

Beth gave her horse an impatient touch of the
whip. Why should she be thus dissected, and
why should he presume to instruct her ? But

VOL. I. m

presently he rode beside her again, calling her
attention to some unnoticed beauty in the landscape
with so sympathetic a manner that she soon
allowed herself to be disarmed.

Later, when they arrived at their destination,
the far-reaching views seemed to touch both M.
d'Isten and Beth in a kindred spirit, and the
works of art in the marble chapel, built in commemoration
of c a Laura dearer than Petrarch's,'
appealed to the same sensitive sense in each.
Thus a truer comprehension quietly built its
foundations beneath them, and there was hung
by imperceptible threads a bridge over the icy
stream that had heretofore separated them.

The most powerful feeling with a liturgy is the prayer
which seeks for nothing in especial, but is a yearning to escape
from the limitations of our own weakness, and an invocation of
all good to enter and abide with us.' — Daniel Deronda.

1 Only I discern
Infinite passion, and the pain
Of finite hearts that yearn.'

Robert Browning.

It had been arranged that after their return from
their ride Mrs. Trescott and Beth should go to
the representation of a French drama, given by
an excellent company, with M. d'Isten.

Evra could not go, as she was to sing the next
night, and did not wish to get the bad air of the
theatre into her throat. Great was the surprise
of all, therefore, when Miss Conover made her
appearance in handsome toilette just as the others
were about to start.

You have changed your mind ? I am so
glad ! ' exclaimed Beth, hastening to welcome
her friend. But she found there was unusual
cause for this change when her hand was almost
crushed in a fierce grasp.

6 What is the matter ? ' she asked, alarmed by
Evra's manner, and the defiant light in her eyes.

1 Nothing ! ' said Guinevere abruptly. ' I am
going to Milan tomorrow, and I would be with
you to-nights

To Milan ! Why, you are advertised to
sing ! ' said Mrs. Trescott.

I know, but everything is upset. A telegram
calls me to Milan. There is no putting it off.'

c I hope it is not bad news ? '

Bad enough, and I want to forget it ! ' exclaimed
Evra, drawing Beth's arm through hers.
I beg your pardon, Mrs. Trescott, but I am so
angry I can hardly speak. You will forgive me ?
Thanks. Now, shan't we go down ? I did not
intend to detain you

As the three "women passed M. dTsten, who
held aside the portiere, he classed them instantly.
The airy, languid grace and sudden energy of
Mrs. Trescott ; that, he knew well. The passionate
intensity of the artist ; that he was already
weary of. The delicate sympathy and reliance
of Miss Hamilton :

1 1 must know her,' he decided quietly, and it
should be admitted that he did not adequately
regret Miss Conovers near departure.

The next day, when Beth went down to stay
with her friend and see her off, she heard the
news. It was of a character to depress any one.

The man to whom Evra had been engaged and
later refused, was taking a manly revenge by
endeavouring to shut off her opportunities in
London, spending his money with a lavish hand
in the praiseworthy endeavour. It would retard
the artist for years, wasting precious time, if he
should succeed, and her former maestro had telegraphed
her to come immediately if she wished

to foil the machinations. There was no choice
possible, so she had paid the forfeit to the Florentine
impresario, had been obliged to forego her
benefit, and all because she had refused to marry
a man whose actions made her despise him.

But aren't you glad you are free ? ' exclaimed
Beth, when Guinevere thus ended the story.

e Ah, for that, yes ! But shouldn't I have led
him a pretty life when all this fine character came
out after marriage ? He wouldn't have had an
easy time of it, you better believe ! '

And you would have had a horrible life !
Imagine being bound to such a person ! Oh, I
am so thankful for you ! After all, this is a small
price to pay for your freedom.'

Hum ! To-day I would be almost willing to
be " bound " to him for the pleasure of tormenting
him. He wouldn't find life a bed of down, you
may rest assured! But there; I am talking
nonsense,' she said, pulling herself up short, as
she noticed the pained expression on Beth's face.

She stopped packing, and came to take Beth's
hands.

Do you know, child, what makes me feel this
more than all is the leaving you. I can't bear
to go away from you. It tears my heart.'

There was a tone of intense emotion in her
voice which almost frightened Beth. Evra was
scanning her face with wild eyes. After a
moment she said, in suppressed tones :

You like me, you are fond of me ; all in your
cool lily-like way. And what are you to me ? '
She snatched the girl into a suffocating embrace.
You are my dearest on earth. I thought this
power of loving any human being was killed in
me. I could have sworn there was no one in the
whole world who could ever hold my heart as you
do. I tell you, child, it is tearing my heart out
to leave you. I may never find you the same.
No, you need not protest. I know I am a friend
to you — a dear friend — if you like ; but you are
inexpressibly more than a friend to me. You

are all the love I have in the world ; all I can
give or take. You are my heart itself ! '

c What can I say, dear Evra 1 ' began Beth,
but the artist interrupted her passionately.

There it is ! You ask, " What can I say ? "
while I speak and find words only too poor ! I
know you can't help it ; you dort feel as I do,
and that is the despair of it. Yet you will lovesome
day. It is not that you lack passion ; it is
all slumbering within you ; and when it is awakened
— oh, shan't I be jealous ? '

She pushed the girl away almost roughly, and
returned to her trunk. Beth did not know what
to do. This intense love weighed upon her
heavily. She did not feel Evra supreme, nor
did she desire to do so. And yet she was so
sorry for Evra, so grieved that she could not
give all that was asked of her, that she almost
blamed herself.

Thus it had gone on in alternations of passionate
outbursts and constraint all day. Evra would

not let Beth out of her sight, and Beth wished
to do everything she could to please her, and
remained with her until the train left.

It was with a sio-h of mingled relief and depression
that she turned away from the station.
This absorption was wearying, and yet the world
seemed cold without it.

If I ever find a man who loves me like that,

and whom I can love ' But the thought

would not be completed. ' Of course it is impossible,'
she said aloud severely ; and then she
had reached the house and found everything
lonely and chill. She could hear her aunt's voice
and M. d'Isten's in the parlour, but the sound
only made her more lonely. The rooms were
dark ; heavy clouds had obscured the sunset, and
the twilight was fast fading into night. It was too
warm for a fire, but the threatening rain chilled
the air. Everything seemed dreary and cold ; and
her sympathy for Evra emphasised her own feelings
until she felt very near the region of tears.

But this would never do ! She was not a
woman who appreciated the luxury of a 'good
cry;' so now she sprang to her feet and lit the
candles, casting about her for a new thought.
The first rays revealed a book lying on the table.
It was Bones and I, a weird favourite of hers.
With a momentary hesitation she opened it and
read :

1 You talk of suffering being pure waste ; I
tell you it is all pure gain. You talk of self
being the motive to exertion ; I tell you it is the
abnegation of self which has wrought out all
that is noble, all that is good and useful, and
nearly all that is ornamental in the world. It
is not the dreamer, wrapped in his fancied bliss,
from whom you are to expect heroic efforts,
either of mind or body. Wake the dreamer
roughly ; drive spurs and goad into his heart.
He will wince, and writhe, and roll, and gnash
his teeth, but I defy him to keep still. He must
be up and doing from sheer tortures, flying to

one remedy after another, till he gets to work,
and so finds distraction, solace, presently comfort
; and, after a while, looking yet higher, hope,
happiness, reward.'

Beth stopped and looked out into the darkening
garden, where a few dim stars were striving
to pierce a rainy mist. There would come a
time, she knew, when these words would be
throbbing truth to her : when the thought of
the book would be unendurable, because she,
too, would be going through the mill.

She sat thinking a long time. In the play
the night before an innocent man had accused
himself of murder to save an innocent friend
and the honour of the woman he loved. Beth
felt the power within her to do something of the
kind. She was hungry, not to be loved, but to
love. She wanted some one on whom she could
pour out the whole wealth of her affection, and
not feel that it had been wasted, but given to
the highest use. She believed she could walk

to the stake steadily, proudly, for one thus dear
to her, or for what she knew was right.

There was no danger of tears now. Heroism,
even in thought, blots out the possibility of such
weakness.

The next day was Sunday. Mrs. Trescott
went to church alone, to the American chapel,
where a c union' service was held, supposed to
unite all the sects for a time at least under the
national flag. Beth did not wish to accompany
her, and her aunt let her do as she liked. She
had always made a principle of this in religious
matters. She was a Unitarian herself, and believed,
as she said, in freedom to worship God.

In the present age any thought makes room
for a million doubts, and these had attacked both
Margaret and Bethesda as soon as they were old
enough to understand anything but obedience to
custom. Margaret became involved in the toils
of that false philosophy which cramps through
making tests for the spirit by material things.

It was only after years of struggle and desperation
that she found relegating things and
thoughts to their true places brought her peace,
and learned to lift herself from independence of
thought to true knowledge and dependence on
the love of God.

Bethesda was quite her opposite in temperament.
Margaret had to be convinced before she
would yield her opinions one jot ; Beth obeyed
instinctively. Everything in Margaret's nature
had been drawn from chaos, as it were, and consciously
formed into a rounded world ; Beth's
was a sphere launched into space with only its
orbit to discover. But Margaret was steadfast
to her central sun, while Beth was drawn hither
and thither by the attraction of different planets,
and had no definite aim. She had been accustomed
from infancy to hear of her sweetness of
character as much as her lovely face, and she
rested in the assurance of one as of the other,
thinking it unnecessary to cultivate either.

The trials and temptations of a lovable temperament,
as it is usually termed, are not, as a
rule, understood. We are apt to think that such
persons have no difficulties to solve, no struggles
to undergo. To them we say everything comes
rose-coloured and perfumed; it is no task to
them to be good. But this is a mistake. Such
natures have an inevitable tendency to weakness.
They lack that conscious principle, formed by
sturdy endeavour, which is the only enduring
cement of a worthy character. They are liable
to the error of considering their instincts, generally
true, an infallible guide, or of following
blindly the guiding hand of one they have been
accustomed to depend upon. Just because they
are equally developed on many sides they are
subject to many attractions which draw them
from their individual orbit. They are sensitive
to influences, and yield with a plasticity which
makes them take on different forms as well as
colours until they are insecure of their own.

Bethesda had partially recognised these errors
during her illness. It had been a serious period
to her. For the first time she had comprehended
that to stand erect, not to be carried, or to lean,
is of vital importance to integrity.

In the recognition of self responsibility she
had found the hollowness of her childish faith.
It was as empty to her as one of her china dolls,
and she cast it from her as she would any lifeless
illusion of childhood. But the loss of the
symbol left her with nothing to take its place.
The idea of religion was a blank to her. A
habit, a vague sense of something others knew
about and she would experience some time,
was all religion had been to her ; and now her
awakened mind would not be lulled bv imagination
or any hereditary faith. She had a strong
feeling, not altogether unshared by greater
minds, that some new revelation was at hand ;
that this was the eve of a transforming era ; and
she took a certain pride in holding herself undefiled

for that new religion. She must see now,
and clearly, to believe, and meantime the highest
she could apprehend was her own perception of
right.

In this state of mind formal church going was
a mockery to her ; she shrank from it as hypocrisy
; and Mrs. Trescott left her behind with a
comfortable conviction that these worries had to
come to any one with brains, and that some time
Beth would waken and discover the world knew
more than she did, in spite of her foolish dream.

But it was very real to Beth, and to still her uneasy
craving she would dress as conspicuously
as possible, and, with the faithful Assunta on
guard beside her, walk or drive swiftly to the
Santissima Annunziata, or Dante's Santa Croce,
and give herself up to the aesthetic religion
which was now her refuge.

George Sand writes that her grandmother on
her deathbed said solemnly: 'J'ai toujours cru
en Dieu, mais ecoute ceci, ma fille, je ne lai pas

assez ainieV With Bethesda, up to this time, it
might have been said that she always loved God,
but she did not sufficiently believe in him. Her
nature was always going out blindly towards
some perfection which she could worship, to
some absolute power which should be sure. She
was empty, as it were, and the first feelings of
hunger, a vague pain, a faintness, a desire for
she knew not what, made themselves felt. She
tried to find something to satisfy her — something
to quell that indistinct disease which intuition
told her was dangerous. Morally, her
conscience was a staff whose soundness she did
not doubt; but mankind, and particularly womankind,
feel the need of something besides morality
to fill their lives — something beyond and above it.
A noble nature is essentially a hero-worshipper ;
and if it has not a real, and eternal, and absolute
hero to worship, it will find a great temptation
to throw itself at the feet of this or that idol as

the better, if not the best.

vol. 1. N

Happily, Bethesda had too natural a cleaving
to the unalterable and highest best for her to
yield to this temptation. When she believed, it
must be in something verifiable, something which
would appeal to a higher court than that of the
senses or the emotions — to that highest of all,
which dwarfs suffering, hushes complaint, and
gives one strength to bear all, and rejoice in the
bearing.

Meantime she stood alone.

As she came out of church, half envying
Assunta, who was wiping her eyes beside her —
she had been praying that her dearest signora
might be admitted into the holy Church —
Monsieur d'Isten quietly stepped to her side.
She shrank, just perceptibly, in recognising him.
She had had no idea he was in the church. She
was not at all aware that he had been watching
her with that keen discernment which was one
of his most marked characteristics. She felt a
certain shock of intrusion in his presence which

she tried to cover instantly ; but he, of course,
had seen it.

He accompanied her to the carriage, speaking
only a few grave words by the way, and when
she turned to ask him to join her found him already
lifting his hat as he moved swiftly away.
She admired his quick perception, and yet it
annoyed her. She scolded herself roundly. She
had been rude — and to him !

Our sympathy is a gift we can never know, nor when we
impart it. The instant of communion is when, for the least
point of time, we cease to oscillate, and coincide in rest by as
true a point as a star pierces the firmament.' — Thoreau.

Sympathy, viewed from the passive side, on the active side
is called benevolence.' — W. H. Matlock.

Rene d'Isten's character was of an essentially
foreign quality. The courts and customs of
Europe educate persons in a school entirely different
from any American's experience, and it is
difficult for them to gain just impressions of the
Latin mind.

Mrs. Trescott understood him only superficially.
She recognised him as a refined and
courteous aristocrat, with a republican liberality ;
a remarkable uniting of frankness and reserve, of

cordiality and distinction. Further, into the
motives of his life, the causes of these results, she
did not look, unless during the time when she
was under the vivid influence of the secret he
had confided to her.

Bethesda was more of a psychologist, but only
an intuitive one. There was much to admire in
him. His mind was as well-poised as his head,
and there was a firmness of steel in his decisions
as in his muscles. He was keenly appreciative
of sentiment, while the hazy raptures of sentimentality
disappeared like mists under the sunlight
of his clear mind. He had a marvellous
amount of tact, and his perceptions were acute ;
not a quiver of sensitive lips escaped him, nor the
subtlest tremor of thought.

Bethesda also apprehended instinctively a
certain wariness and suppleness of mind ; a
duality in the man, which, when she was out
from under his direct influence, confused and
blurred her impressions. Not that he was insincere

— his ardent devotion to certain causes
and persons barred such suspicions — but she was
aware that he exercised a self-control, which had
become a second nature, and presented himself to
the world only as he wished to be seen. Who
could tell, then, where this ended and his real
self began ?

Now this duality, which Bethesda did not
justly understand, is peculiarly European. The
intrigue of society nurtures the man from his
cradle. He is taught self-control and tact before
he is taught frankness and truth, and, when afterlife
builds a superstructure, one cannot be sure on
which foundation it has its basis. In any case,
the man is dual ; he has two selves ; one that he
himself knows, or thinks he knows, and one that
the world thinks it knows. These intermix and
fuse their qualities so dexterously that finally no
one can say which is the body, so to speak, and
which the spirit ; they are quite as attractive
as this problem of the philosopher's. The individual,

meanwhile, is neither one nor the other :
he is actually both.

M. d' 1st en had used many of the qualities of
both sides of his nature in his acquaintance with
Mabel Trescott. She was proud of her power to
make persons feel insecure of her, and between
her and M. d'Isten there had been a continual
warfare, in which now one, now the other, was
conquered and conqueror. On the whole, however,
M. d'Isten triumphed. He had patience,
as well as versatility, and his will-power was a
carefully developed capacity, in which he had
received much training from himself and others,
while Mabel's was capricious and inconstant. She
delighted as much in divino; full blossoms, when
green buds alone were expected, as in giving a
thorn-prick when one bent to inhale a tropical
fragrance. And Bene d'Isten knew how to receive
the flower with grace no less well than he knew
how to avoid the thorns, and after their reconciliation
he had secured himself in her friendship,

she hardly knew how, but much more decidedly
than before.

This left him comparatively free to follow up
his resolve of knowing more of Miss Hamilton,
and Mrs. Trescott was very willing to aid him.
Bethesda herself was passive in their hands. The
sudden separation from her friend, who had engrossed
the girl to an almost exhausting degree,
left her in a subdued and listless state of
mind. The approaching farewell to the scenes
she loved, to Italy, and the life she had lived
there, gave a tinge of wistful sadness to all
her thoughts ; and the enervating influence of
an Italian spring made her yield to her aunt
unquestioningly, drifting with the stream of her
desires.

Thus they were either driving through the
still air, looking on scenes of rarest loveliness, or
visiting churches filled with the art of centuries,
and mystically solemnised by the glamour of a
symbolic religion, or sitting in their own shadowy

parlour, talking and listening to gradual unfolding
of character.

What wonder, then, that M. d'Isten, with his
thorough savoir-faire, was able to make the
barrier of prejudice crumble away unnoticed ?
He knew how to impress himself upon Bethesda's
mind by imperceptible means that could arouse
no surprise or even recognition. He talked to
her no more than formerly, but in his conversations
with her aunt he allowed his inner nature
to come to the surface, and show itself in a
thousand delicate ways, which could not but win
attention from one so sensitive to all refinement
as Bethesda.

One afternoon, the day before their projected
departure from Florence, whence they were to
go to Paris in company, they came up from
luncheon a little wearied by the exertion of
packing on a warm day. Bethesda seated herself
by the shaded window to enjoy the jessamine
and tiny cream roses which wreathed it ina

multitude of delicate lines. The outline of
her face and figure was cut clearly against the
dark-blue damask, while an eager ray of sunlight
found and rested on the bronzed gold of her
hair. Mrs. Trescott threw herself on an ottoman
near by, and leaned her head against Beth's
knee. The girl idly broke off clusters of the
rose-vine, and weaved them in among her aunt's
dark curls.

M. d'Isten paced the room in a silent mood of
repressed excitement. The languor of a southern
mid-day, the surroundings of the beautiful room,
the atmosphere of domestic womanliness, threw
a charm around the group to which this man
was almost painfully sensible.

I wish you could have known my mother,'
he said abruptly. ' I often feel as if she knew
you.'

Mabel looked up in surprise, while Beth said
simply :

Tell us about her.'

It was a subject on which he seldom spoke,
but it was becoming no new thing; for him to
give expression to ideas and feelings that had
previously been unspoken. Now he answered
as simply as he had been asked.

You know she was an Orientals. Her father
was a man of great influence in Algiers, and she
was his favourite child. She was educated as
few Eastern women are even when my father
married her, and she was then, as I told you,
mademoiselle, only fifteen. She was very beautiful.
My father took her to Paris soon after they
were married, but he returned with her to Algiers
quickly. She disliked Paris, and the attention
she attracted there seemed to hurt her. It made
her shrink and wince. She was essentially
Eastern,' he went on, twining a jessamine wreath
slowly around his hand ; ' her nature had the
grace and warmth of the tropics. Her very soul
was given to my father, and yet I have heard
him say that she inspired him with a reverence

that made him feel afar off at times. Some
women seem to reach higher than any man can.'

He paused a moment, and his mind appeared
to be absent from his surroundings. Neither of
the ladies spoke. Presently he said :

'My father, too, was very young when he
married. He did not realise that he would be
giving up his country in marrying an Algerian.
But when he found she would be unhappy elsewhere
he made the sacrifice quietly. Perhaps
no one knew what a sacrifice it must have been
so well as I.'

Your father and mother were a great contrast
to one another, were they not ? ' asked Beth.

1 Markedly so. He is reserved and quiet, and
has an iron will. He is somewhat cold also, buta
man must not show too much feeling. You
see, he is quite my ideal,' he added, smiling.

A Bayard, Beth once called him,' said Mabel
teasingly.

The words recalled, as by magic, the conversation

in the train between Genoa and Florence,
and Beth was silent, thinking how strangely
events had come round that they two should be
sitting there conversing intimately with a man
whom that day they both disliked. And how
about her presentiment ?

She pushed the obtrusive thoughts away by
saying :

You are a great deal with your father ? '
Not of late years. When I was a lad I used
to be with him as constantly as school duties
would allow ; but not now.'

Have you brothers and sisters, monsieur ? '
Two step-brothers. My sister died when I
was a child

The girl looked up at him with sudden pity.
She felt the meaning that lay under the reticence
of his tone. He was a man of domestic nature,
and fate had made all his family relations cold.
To Beth, whose only fear of death was the
thought of its loneliness, this life of continued

heart-solitude was terrible. She felt that she
could never bear such a burden, and yet he was
always so cheerful and sunny !

6 Monsieur she said with one of her rarely
tender smiles, ' you must be either very strong
or very hard ; which is it ? '

Which is it ? I ask you, mademoiselle.'

I will not flatter you she replied ; and Mabel
glanced up well pleased. The remark was a
milestone which showed the distance traversed
during these quiet, dreamy days.

1 You are a judge of character, mademoiselle
resumed M. d'Isten presently. e Will you tell
me what you think of my father's face ? I have
a photograph here.'

On her cordial assent M. d'Isten took from
his pocket a book which was stamped with his
name and crest.

What a charming little affair ! ' exclaimed
Mabel ; ' may I see it V

He had taken out the photograph, and now

handed it to Beth, while Mrs. Trescott examined
the coat of arms.

'May I see what is inside?' she .asked mischievously.


If you like.'

1 Oh, you are altogether too amiable. Come,
Beth, let me see that ; you have been studying
it honos enough.'

i It is a fine head,' said Beth, glancing at M.
d'Isten. There was a strong resemblance between
father and son. ' He is quite what I had
imagined him : severely noble, and yet a man I
would trust for liberality and charity without
limit. I wish we had met him. I don't think
I should be afraid of him.'

You would have no cause to be, you would
understand one another,' he said, with a proud
light in his eyes. ' He is a man you could
appreciate.'

A handsome old gentleman,' remarked Mrs.
Trescott, carelessly putting the photograph on a

table near by. ' Yon will have white hair like
that one of these days.'

Yes, we turn gray early,' he replied, opening
his book to replace the card. As he did so
another photograph was half disclosed.

6 Who is that ? Let ns see that,' exclaimed
Mabel.

He flashed a glance across her, but without a
word gave her what she desired.

'Oh,' she said deprecatingly, as she saw a
woman's face, ' it is your wife.'

He did not answer. Mabel was studying the
picture, and Beth, after an involuntary glance at
M. d'Isten's pained face, kept her eyes steadily
downcast.

How could her aunt have made such a mistake
? And he carried his wife's photograph
always with him, in spite of what must have
happened. He had a devoted nature to be so
fond of his home, his father, and his wife. Her
notion of his ' chilly disposition,' c unwarmed

intellectuality, 5 and so forth, began to dissolve
and disappear.

It is a discontented face,' said Mabel at last,
with an accent of dislike in her voice. ' Otherwise,
she is a handsome woman.' *

As Mrs. Trescott returned it to M. d'Isten he
offered it to Bethesda in silence.

Thanks,' she said, refusing to receive it with
a slight gesture, and not looking up.

If she had seen his expression of satisfaction
then it would have puzzled her. This impulsive
girl, with her keen sympathy and desire not to
intrude, would have found it difficult to understand
how any action of hers could have the
slightest effect at such a moment. But he was
not one to lose intellectual perception through
emotion, and when his insight was verified it
gave the pleasure of a gratified faculty.

Such a man, brought into familiar intercourse
as he now was with a woman like Bethesda
Hamilton, found a forceful charm in her mobile

VOL. I.

sympathy. The play of feeling in her face had
an unceasing fascination. There was an iridescence
of thoughts and moods, which, like the
sea, rippled over an underlying strength on which
one could buoyantly repose. She was fully his
equal in quick comprehension, although from
different causes, and her depth of emotion and
spontaneity were a contrast that unconsciously
answered to his own need.

Now, however, the former good understanding
was for the time disturbed. The shadow of this
dark secret fell over all three. Beth had risen,
and was wandering around the room, while the
others kept up a disjointed conversation. She
felt an intruder when she came up against this
blank wall through which the others had a gate.
Presently she bethought her of a letter to unfinished
for the evening mail, and slipped unnoticed
away.

She had been writing for some time, and had
forgotten all her worries, when Mabel startled

her into making a great clash by throwing aside
the curtains and exclaiming :

You truant ! it's a shame '

It certainly is ! ' interrupted the girl. ' See
what you made me do ! Isn't she naughty,
monsieur ? '

Perhaps it was unkind to interrupt such an
interesting letter,' he said, with just the least
tone of depression in his voice.

A most interesting letter, I assure you,' she
said demurely.

I will tell him your secret if you don't
come,' cried Mabel, 'take care !'

I will be there as soon as I have finished
this. You see, you have put me back, and it
must be ready for to-night's mail."

M. d'Isten had been watching her closely ; he
saw the slight flush in her cheeks, the brilliance
in her eyes, and he thought he knew it all.
Somewhat abruptly he turned away.

See, Rene is hurt said Mabel in a low tone

think you might leave your letter. Anyway,
if you don't,' in a louder voice, ' I shall tell him.'

Very well,' answered Beth carelessly. She
never could be forced in anything, and certainly
her aunt could entertain her friend for a few
moments unassisted.

Mrs. Trescott chose her for the topic.

• Guess to whom she is writing, Kene V

Her fiance, 1 he replied, as if there were no
doubt about the matter.

Hardly ; but I sometimes wonder if she will
care for a fiance more than she does for this.
She sends a weekly letter to one of our best
papers ; isn't she clever ? '

M. d'Isten turned sharply.

'Mademoiselle writes?' he exclaimed; 'she
writes and publishes V

She does indeed. It surprises you ? She
would not let me tell you before; she is very
sensitive about having it known. But really,
she has no need to be. She receives good pay ;

that shows her letters are worth something.
Money is the test, especially with us, you know.
But why should it amaze you so ? ' she added,
noticing his absent manner, and a peculiar
luminous appearance in his eyes.

I cannot say — it is so unexpected ' He

put his hand over his eyes a moment ; then
presently asked in his usual tone, but with
eagerness :

On what subjects does she write ? On art V

Oh no; mostly bits of foreign life, descriptions
of this and that. Anything interesting, you
know.'

• And what name does she use V

Her own. She did not like the idea of a
nom de plume .'

What is her own ? Simply " Beth " V (He
pronounced it ' Bet')

No ; that is an abbreviation. Her real name
is Bethesda, from the Bible, you know. She has
always had a romantic notion that it meant

something in her life. She is full of such
fancies. I think she will always like Algeria,
because it was from there she first wrote. Not
but that she has always been inclined to scribble ;
and even before she was old enough to do that
she made her dolls talk to one another, like a
story-book. We used to find it an excellent
method to discover what had made an impression
on her, for she would repeat conversations she
had heard, weaving in her own fancies, and
imaginary incidents, until we could hardly tell
ourselves where what we had said left off and her
own notions began.'

But she first published from Algeria ? ' said
M. d'Isten, with repressed eagerness.

Yes, she was very deeply impressed with the
country there. Ah, ha, Miss ! ' she cried, as Beth
here came in ; ' your secret is yours no longer.
And Bene was greatly shocked to hear of your
presumption ! I doubt if he will ever speak to
you again

On the contrary, I beg you to accept my
profound congratulations, mademoiselle.'

1 Thank you she said, blushing prettily. ' I
was afraid you would think me silly.'

How could I ? You knew well I would not.
The supreme thing one can do is to exercise one's
faculties for the benefit of others, and you are
allowing many the privilege of looking through
your eyes.'

Yes, that is what some of her critics
say,' remarked Mabel. ' " She makes us see
what she sees," they say, "not coloured, but
what it actually is." We are very proud of
that ! '

• Don't, auntie ! '

And why not, if you please ? I have a good
right to praise my niece, if I wish. It gives mea
reflected glory.'

Don't tease, Aunt Mabel.'

'Mademoiselle Bethesda,' said M. dTsten,
drawing nearer her, ; will you let me take your

BETHESDA. [part i.

hand, and wish that this may bring you all the
happiness I desire for yon V

His tone struck Beth as a little odd, but
she held out her hand cordially. He took
it in his, which was well-formed, thin, and
ascetic ; its clasp, rarely given, was possessive,
not alone of another, but of himself; now it
closed around Beth's, until she felt hers unspeakably
bound.

Understand,' he said, ' all the happiness I
can desire for you. You may never know what
that is, but pray accept the assurance that no
wish was ever more sincere.' He released her
hand, and then asked : ' May I see your letter ? '

Oh no ! ' she exclaimed ; ' it really isn't
worth your reading.'

'Let me be the judge. You need not be
afraid to have me see what thousands read and
praise.'

But it is all about little traits of foreign life,
which would be a twice-told tale to you.'

And what is more charming than a glimpse
of a scene familiar to us through a stranger's
discerning eyes ? Don't we all enjoy a painting-better
of something we know ? You will give a
new o-eni to my collection.'

i But you will be so disappointed, with such
ideas in your mind ! I think I had better leave
you in undisturbed possession of your fancy
rather than interfere with the reality."

You could give me a great pleasure' he
answered quietly.

Bethesda wavered at this. There was something,
she could not tell what, that took from
her all desire to refuse. He had a persuasive
quality, that relied little on words, but made one
feel, insensibly as it were, that what he wished
was easiest and best.

e Well, since you are kind enough to care
about it, I will give you a printed letter,' she
said, after a momentary hesitation. ' But don't
read it until you are away from us,' she added,

with a deprecating glance ; ' then you can skip
all you like.'

He was wise enough to be content with this ;
and, when she had found and given him the
letter, still with a shy reluctance, he pressed her
to sing, knowing she would thus lose her unwonted
self-consciousness quickest.

Her vocal accomplishments were not at all
ambitious, and perhaps for that reason they
pleased him the more. In any case he would
listen attentively as long as she could be prevailed
upon to remain at the piano, surrendering
himself to the charm of a voice in which pathos
and passion mingled.

Her last song was 'The Minstrel Boy,' and
as its stirring chords stopped she wheeled towards
him with a patriotic fire in her eyes.

You were in the war, monsieur ? ' she exclaimed.


6 Yes,' he answered shortly. A dark look
came over his face, and his mouth set in a stern

line. He replied to Beth's startled glance by
saying :

The war was a trick, a cruel deception. The
gambler made the throw as a last resource, and
when it failed, France was the one who paid. I
led a few companies to the slaughter,' went on
M. d'Isten, his voice gaining a tense resonance.
I saw how our men gave their lives gladly for
their country, — and how they cursed when they
found it was only to bring her to dishonour !
Louis Napoleon tarnished his country's fame ;
he outraged what should have been dearer to
him, more sacred than his own mother ; — what
Frenchman can forgive ? '

Here was what aroused the self controlled
man. He stood with his arm lifted as if he
would strike every enemy of France to the earth,
his tall figure erect and martial. He never had
looked more of a man. Then his hands dropped
and clasped before him.

6 1 love my country,' he said, with a tone of

deep tenderness ; ' I would give my life to keep
one grain of dust from her robes. All Frenchmen
feel the same ; and yet that man, our soidisant
emperor, made us soak her skirts in the
mire of blood and wrong. He brought us to
such a pass for his own selfish ends, that we
were obliged to do it ; then, to complete the
ignominy, he deceived us, so that we fell. The
iron foot of foreign tyranny was placed on the
neck of our nation, of our country, of our
France ! '

He broke off suddenly. Something rose in
his throat and impeded utterance. He had
never spoken in this way before. He had never
known what it was to give way in abandon.
But because a man is slow to fire it does not
follow that he has no passion, as Bethesda now
began to comprehend.

The impetus of the pent-up stream finding
egress, carried him on now past even this curious
faltering.

1 I do not say that we were guiltless. We
should have recognised the wrong* it was to
France to place her in the power of a Louis
Napoleon. We should have flung far from us
the shame of the coup d'etat. We should have
shown the world that we could not be made into
slaves even by ourselves. But we did not, and
the fruits of slavery came. We were shown the
tyranny of a master by subjection to a foreign
power. There may have been treachery ; there
may have been deceit ; but if we could not rise
above these to the height of loyalty and honour
we deserved to fall — as we have.'

'Have you?' said Beth bravely. 'It seems
to me that France was never so noble as now.
She has thrown off the chains of the past and
commenced a truer government. She first sowed
the seeds of liberty throughout Europe, and she
is now leading it in action. Has she not risen
instead of fallen? She is whole-souled in her
devotion to a cause. Just think how she broke

through all the machinations of her enemies
when she paid, in an incredibly short time, the
debt Bismarck expected would cripple her for
years ! I think she is more worthy of admiration
than she has ever been. She is not cast down ;
she is not despondent ; and it is better to lose all
than to fail in striving.'

M. d'Isten had listened to her with a grave
face, and eyes fixed upon the floor. He raised
them now, and Bethesda was startled by their
shining.

'You are right, mademoiselle. I shall not
forget. France and America exchange their gifts.
They are comrades in arms. France gave America
the idea to work upon ; America gave France the
solid encouragement of example, the sturdy child
of her theories. I believe France can be a republic.
She will have strength to carry her government,
as you say, like a lantern before the eyes
of Europe. She will not desert the cause, nor
her sons their ambition

What a patriot } r ou are, Bene ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Trescott. ' I never knew you so enthusiastic
before.'

Perhaps I never have been, at least in words ;
but I cannot imagine life without France.'

He took a turn or two in silence, and then
added, with a smile :

I remember in Algeria, when I was hardly
out of dresses, how I used to long for notre patrie.
It warms my heart to find you so eloquent in its
defence, mademoiselle.'

She is a perfect blue stocking in her devotion
to the French Revolution,' said Mrs. Trescott ;
she is always reading about it.'

1 It is the most interesting period in modern
history, surely,' returned Beth quietly, as she
crossed to a seat. ' And it was your love for
France which made you choose diplomacy as a
profession, monsieur ? '

No ; I entered the career in obedience to my
father.' A cloud of remembrance took the lio-ht

from his face, but he continued cheerfully : ' The
work suits me. It brings into action each quality
of the mind, and gives occupation to one's
thoughts. It is also a position of considerable
power.'

Yes, indeed,' said Beth. ' If I had been a
man I should have tried to be a statesman. Why,
everything is in their hands. They crystallise
theories into action, and show the result in a
State.'

Where did you find that idea, mademoiselle 1 '

Where should I ? In my brain, I suppose.'

It is an excellent brain if there are many such

thoughts in it.' He was silent for a moment.

'Do women take much interest in politics in

America ? ' he asked then of Mrs. Trescott.

Some do ; Beth, for instance. She is like her
mother in that. I never could take the trouble
to originate any ideas. Of course I could have
done it had I taken the trouble ! Cela va sans
dire. It was only during our war that I kept

trace of affairs. Then, I assure you, women were
interested ! '

And then it was, doubtless, that mademoiselle
first took her interest in la 'politique ? '

1 Oh, certainly ; a child of four years ! '

Patriotism can burn in a child's heart as well
as a woman's,' said Beth ; ' and I can remember
well my ambition to do something for the soldiers,
and putting my whole little strength into making-pincushion
! '

You should have her marry a statesman,
madame.'

Ah ! she will marry whom she chooses without
being much influenced by me, I fear. And I
don't want her to marry for ever so long yet.
What should I do without her ? '

1 What indeed,' murmured M. d'Isten.

Beth had been wandering around the room, and

did not hear these last phrases, which were spoken

in an undertone. The sun had set in a golden

radiance, and the twilight now grew and deepened.
vol. 1. p

Beth's white dress shone dimly in the darkening
atmosphere ; and as the breaking np of this
dreamy period drew near, as the delicious perfumes
of the garden were drifted through the
open windows, as Eerie d'Isten thought of them
and they of leaving Florence, a silence commenced,
and grew, and lingered, until not one of the three
knew how to break it.

Who can say what impulse it was that made
Bethesda go to the piano and let fall on the
stillness a low, minor melody, which bore these
words : —

Parle-moi ; que ta voix me touche ;
Chaque parole sur ta bouche,
Est un echo melodies ;
Parle-moi ! parle-moi !

Quand ta voix meurt dans mon oreille,
Mon ane resolve, et seville,
Comme un temple, a la voix de Dieu.
Parle-moi ! parle-moi ! '

Her hands slipped from the keys when she

had finished, and she sat motionless, unsatisfied.

The wide regret of her nature for Italy, the

sympathetic sorrow for this man, which was hardly
more than a wistful wonder, the yearning for
something steady throughout change, secure beyond
pain, found too restricted a meaning in the
words she had sung ; but the pathos of the music
stole into every vein and made her heart swell.

Eene dTsten w T as watching her as she sat
against the window. His arms were crossed and
pressed close to his slow r-throbbing breast. He
noted every tremor of the fine lips ; he saw how
the eyes grew big with moisture, and the long
lashes feared to move ; and he saw, and grasped,
a fixed resolve.

Are we all spellbound ? ' exclaimed Mrs. Trescott,
rising with an abrupt rustle of silken skirts.
Being for candles, please, Beth ; that will send
aw r ay the spirits. I don't like ghosts.'

It has been remarked that in life, as in music, if two cannot
strike the same note, or repeat it in different octaves, there must
be a certain distance to avoid discord. But when they harmonise,
there is an unsubstantial link which is inexpressible, yet
unbreakable ; unbeseechable, yet ever besought. Where sympathy
fails, nothing can join ; where it joins, nothing can
separate.

Meme quench l'oiseau marche, on sent qu'il a des ailes.'

The last Florentine morning dawned with a soft
effulgence ; the sky was of rose-leaves and marigolds,
the earth tremulously sweet and fresh.

Bethesda was up early, and while the dew
still sparkled on the creamy roses she went into
the garden for a parting reverie. She could not
be sad with all this joyous beauty around her,
but neither could she fully respond to its gladness.
She let her eyes follow the forms of trees

and slender campanili to the deep sky, and rest
there with a yearning too impersonal for sorrow
or pleasure. The sea affected her in the same
way ; the ocean stretching out to the sky, the
sky curving down to the sea, seemed to her like
a great truth bending over an earnest mind, and
she never wearied of such sublime monotony.
It was with reluctance, therefore, that she obeyed
her aunt's imperious summons to breakfast.

It was a fussy meal, for Mrs. Trescott was
troubled by many things, although nearly everything
was ready for their evening start.

Can I relieve you in any way, Aunt Mabel ? '
asked Beth as they rose from the table.

No, no ; nothing. I must do it all myself,
except what Graziella can do better than either
of us. You tend to your own things, and leave
mine to me.'

6 Very well,' replied the girl quietly, and,
having thus seen how the land lay, presently
took Assunta, and went to hear some music that

she knew was to be finely rendered at the 
Anmmziata.

She found a prie-dieu in the shadows of one
of the great columns, where she had the wide
nave before her, with its altar lights, and clouds
of rising incense ; but other things made only
a slight impression upon her when the music
began.

The soaring tenor notes, the throbbing pain
of the baritone, the earthly despair of the bass ;
the organ sending its dirge-like tones through
the solemn arches, which now echoed to the
joyous peal of resurrection, and again to the
subsiding hush of peace attained, — to all this
Bethesda responded with a spellbound intensity ;
and as, at last, she bent her head on the cushion
before her, who will say that the great yearning
in her heart was not a prayer ?

Ashen, a while later, Beth came out of the
shadowy church, with its atmosphere of holiness,
into the hot square, where the statue of the

Grand Duke whom Browning lias immortalised
ever looks up to the window in which his once-bespoken
and never-forgotten love sat day after
day to receive the salute which was their only
intercourse, M. d'Isten stepped to her side. She
welcomed him with a quiet glance. There was
no shrinking now, no sense of being jarred. She
even pursued her own train of thought uninterrupted.


You said, mademoiselle ? ' questioned her
companion presently, as they walked home together,
Assunta following.

1 ? I did not speak,' she replied.
I thought there was a question you would
ask me he answered with calm assurance.

Ah ! ' she exclaimed, smiling, ' I understand
now. My sister has a way of saying : What
would you say if you said it ? You are doing
the same.'

He did not mind being found out ; all he said
was :

< Well ? '

I don't know that I should ask you

But it might help '

You were thinking of the sermon we just
heard ? '

No, not of the sermon. I don't care for
those. They seem rather to interfere than to
assist. I was thinking of the symbolism of the
Catholic Church, and how beautiful it was.'

'Yes?'

And — and I was wondering if that was what
satisfied Catholics. How can it ? ' She was
growing bolder now. c There must be something
more to grasp ; they cannot be content
with just this.'

But, mademoiselle, there is faith.'

Yes, it must be your faith,' she answered
slowly. ' You all rest on what the Church gives
you, without looking into it. You don't feel the
need to see. It must be very restful.'

1 If we inquire, Miss Bethesda, what should we

find more than the Church gives us ? And if
less, why should we wish to know that ? We
must be like little children, and believe

Ah, but I can't ! ' she cried in a low tone,
that expressed more than Bene d'Isten could
understand. c One can't be a child for ever ;
one cannot accept blindly '

But the Church sees ; one can follow her,' he
said softly.

She shook her head, but did not reply. He
did not understand her ; it was impossible that
he should, different as had been their religious
educations, different as were their character in
this. Bethesda could obey until she began to
doubt ; then her doubt must be solved before she
could again trust. Bene accepted some things
as he did his nationality ; it was not a thing to
be disputed ; there could be no doubts.

The same evening they left Florence, and at
the train was a pleasant surprise — at least to
some. An official handed Miss Hamilton a great

dewy mass of lilies of the valley, which he said
had been given him by a gentleman who, after
designating la signora when she left her carriage,
had immediately gone away.

Beth knew then that Signor Straora was
aware of her departure, and she sat thinking of
him for some time. Monsieur d'Isten asked Mrs.
Trescott meanwhile if he should not open the
window ? The fragrance of the flowers was somewhat
heavy, he thought.

Later, when Mabel had composed herself to
sleep, Monsieur d'Isten and Bethesda sat divided
by the length of the carriage, both quite still for
hours, thinking and feeling.

Beth realised that she was being carried onwards
to an unknown future, a new life, and
looked back with a curious sadness that was not
pain or sorrow, but a keen appreciation of what
this life in Italy had brought her, and an instinctive
shrinking from the future. She did
not feel the passionate dread that had oppressed

her in entering Florence, but rather a passive
knowledge that fate was speeding her onwards,
irresistibly onwards, as the train through the
night.

It was a mystic scene without to favour this
illusion. The meadows and hillsides were glittering
with fire-flies, as if the overheated earth were
sending up slow sparks of fire ; the glow-worms
burned their green lamps in the grass, and in
the sky there was heat-lightning, like involuntary
thought. Sometimes it was eerie moonlight,
such as pure elves might find among the ice-caverns
of the glaciers ; again it lit the clouds
with the flaming rose of a wild hope ; again it
was the bright amber of assurance, or the rich
purple of suffering made into joy ; and at times
it seemed to the entranced girl like a vision of
heaven itself.

Meantime M. d'Isten s busy brain was working
as incessantly, and creating as marvellous
visions in his own mind. The future was his

BETHESDA. [part i.

thought, and there was all the difference between
him and Bethesda that lies between activity and
passivity. She was feminine in her readiness to
be worked upon, unconscious though it were,
and Eene d'Isten was thoroughly masculine in
the vigour with which his mind resolved to
work.

It was a chilly evening when they arrived in
Paris thirty-six hours later. The city had always
been a distasteful place to Bethesda. She felt
a dislike to it, which she attributed to the frivolous
and unclean atmosphere that seemed to taint
every breath of Parisian air. She felt as if she
were entangled in the meshes of a French novel
as soon as the gay boulevards and glaring gaslights
came in sight.

On this occasion, however, her feeling was
less insistent, for M. d'lsten's pleasure in a return
to his capital communicated itself to her, and the
rest after the long journey was certainly a relief.

Then, too, when they arrived at their hotel,

the same at which. Mrs. Trescott had first met M.
d'lsten, and were shown to the large salon reserved
for them, they saw upon the table a rich
basket of flowers that filled the air with a fragrant
welcome.

M. d'lsten had remained below a few moments,
and when he came up he was assailed
with exclamations of praise and gratitude by
Mabel.

In memory of the Flower City,' he said, with
a smile, standing framed by the porters, hat in
hand, and his dark eyes seeking Beth, who had
not spoken.

It is a bit of dear Italy itself she said, with
a swift glance of thanks.

•' That is good ! et acres f '

1 Acres ?' echoed Mabel, : what can there be
acres f

Not the deluge, I trust' he returned, still
waiting.

Beth had looked around quickly, and now

espied on a tiny table in the corner, half hidden
by the wine-red curtains, a Venetian vase of exquisite
delicacy, containing one moss rose.

Ah ! ' she exclaimed, i I have found the
acres ! '

'Let me present to you " Bethesda," mademoiselle,'
said M. d'Isten, now joining her. ' This
rose,' he added, ' contains my criticism and my
thanks.'

He watched her curiously as the light beamed
over her face, which the mention of her writing
always brought. Some confusion was in her
manner ; then she said :

You are very gentle with me, monsieur. I
appreciate it, believe me. And how lovely the
flower is ! I never saw a white moss rose before
with that warm colouring towards the heart.'

I thought you would like it,' was all he said.

In spite of this good understanding on their
arrival, when there was no room for anything
but liking, Bene d'Isten found Miss Hamilton

difficult to win from her instinctive reserve-more

difficult here than in Florence. The truth
is, that he was a man of remarkable personal
magnetism ; and a woman of as positive a nature
as Bethesda, and one who possessed no little
mental electricity herself, naturally sprang away
from the attraction to which she had for a time
half unwillingly and half unconsciously yielded.

Quite a number of friends, too, were glad to
find Mrs. Trescott and Miss Hamilton in Paris,
and insisted on having them to little quiet
dinners or lunches, and called on them frequently.
But M. d' 1st en contrived, through his
intimacy with Mrs. Trescott, always to make one
at the impromptu entertainments that took place
in the red and gold salon. He soon, indeed,
made himself indispensable, and knew how to aid
the ladies unobtrusively, as well as how to avoid
any appearance of being other than a guest.

Mrs. Trescott, who enjoyed leaning when she
felt at perfect liberty to change her attitude at

any instant, found him ' a great comfort ; ' and
Beth herself could not help but notice how much
more smoothly the evenings passed when he was
present than when absent, as he took care to be
once or twice after he had quietly established his
position.

One of his opportunities to break through
Beth's easy and half-indifferent reserve he improved
towards the end of the week. They
happened to be side by side in the embrasure of
a window, and he detained her by saying :

1 You have been writing to-day, Miss Bethesda.'


Why should you think that, monsieur V she
asked, a little startled, for in truth she had spent
all the afternoon on a Parisian letter.

• I am not blind he answered, noting the unusual
brilliancy of her eyes, and the delicate flush
in her cheeks.

Have I an ink-blot anywhere V she exclaimed.
That is all I can fancy should betray me.'

'I give you credit for more comprehension,
mademoiselle. '

You flatter me, monsieur.'

'Presently you will not say that.'

1 Ah, you are a prophet as well as a seer V

1 Sometimes.'

"You find a great heretic in me, I fear.'

I shall convert you.'

Self-depreciation is not one of your failings,
then V

1 There are some things one may know,' he said,
catching her eyes with a steady grasp of his own.

Her attention was aroused, and this was all
he wanted. Indifference is the one thins; to be
dreaded when one wishes to make a friend. And,
during the long hours of resurrection spring sunshine,
while he worked, as well as the starry
nights, when he dreamed, he had allowed his
fancies to caress the thought of securing a friendship
which should indemnify him for the disappointments
life had given him to bear.
vol. 1. Q

Mrs. Trescott could not at all take this place.
She was a charming acquaintance — delightful
just where she was. There was a kind of camaraderie
between them which was piquant and
entertaining to both ; but, for any serious friendship
— for anything, in fact, more than momentary
her capriciousness could not be relied upon.

Bethesda was of an entirely different nature,
and she it was of whom he had determined to
make a friend — a true ' American' friend. He
had established a committee of ways and means
to this end within the closed portals of his own
mind, and it held its meetings frequently. The
spring (it seemed sometimes that this spring had
lasted for months, and again it seemed but an
hour since it commenced) had entered into him
with its restless longings, and he wished something
definite, if nothing more than freedom to
grow, to ensue.

He thought he should accomplish his purpose
also, for Bethesda was in many ways as transparent

as crystal to him. He saw her innocence,
her earnestness, her purity, with as reverential a
recognition as Indians would see the limpid ball
into which they believe pure hands can roll
water. He also perceived her quick distrust
when anything equivocal came near ; her virgin
dignity which drew itself aside from anything she
felt to be wrong ; and, in full view of these facts,
he here took his stand. She never should feel
anything to excite her distrust in him. He had
seen her soul step back in her eyes from the mere
approach of a tainted thought or glance ; there
was a terror in such chastity — a terror and a
glorious pride ! He was more proudly thankful
than the world could guess that his youth had
not been . squandered. He had not understood
its value before ; now it came to him immeasurably
increased. She, the pure Bethesda, whose
sensitiveness felt like a mirror the blurring of a
too-close breath, should become his friend by the
exercise of their best selves; she should recognise

that here was something higher than had ever
appealed to her before, and i awake to the renown'
of her own perfect womanhood.

His steel-like determination to succeed in anything
he had planned made the affair seem to him
a fait accompli, at the same time that it exerted
the fascination of creation ; and, after the departure
of the compatriots who had claimed so much
of the ladies' attention, his deft manipulation,
aided by Mrs. Trescott's liking, soon succeeded
in overcoming Beth's instinct to hold herself aloof .

The days, indeed, presently took on a settled
method which had for its aim to bring M. d'Isten
and the ladies together as much as possible. In the
morning shopping and various affaires divided
them, but in the afternoon they would take drives
to the Bois, or Pass, or some of the other lovely
and historic environs of the capital, M. d'Isten
being now the host, and returning with empresse-merit
the courtesies he had received in Italy.



The ladies enjoyed them thoroughly. Mrs.

Trescott delighted in the brilliant and changing
life of Paris, the sense of being delicately cared
for, and the interesting society of M. d'Isten,
whom every day she more enthusiastically liked.
Beth, too, felt that Paris held some uncontaminated
pleasures after all. The reaction from
her magnetic repulsion had set in as she came
under the sway of M. d'Isten' s more continual
presence, and her misconceptions of him, as she
now called them, had all faded away like the
morning mists when the sun is high. She allowed
her mind to open to him without fear — fear
indeed never suggested itself. He was married,
and she knew it ; knew too that he was loyal to
his wife, and keenly sensitive to every tie of
honour. They often spoke incidentally of
Madame d'Isten, and there was never the
slightest blame in his accents, or anything but
interest in hers.

The girl was exceedingly innocent, not through
ignorance, but dauntless faith in those she once

liked. She would as soon suspect an apple tree
of poisoning her as a friend of harming her.
Some trees did, she knew, but hers was not of
that kind. Nor was her confidence, in this
instance, unshared by others.

Monsieur le Comte would be charming if he
were not so deplorably serious,' said a French
lady, whom they met one day at the house of an
American resident.

1 Why, we find him very cheerful and entertaining
exclaimed Mrs. Trescott.

Oh, for that, yes. But I mean ' and she

waved her hand airily. ' You know there is a
something some men have, an audacity, an — I
know not what, which renders them truly irresistible
! But then our friend is not frivolous ; he
has not profited by Paris ; you understand ? Au
contraire, he has a position ! — and a reputation !
Eh, hen, I wish my husband had such a one ! '
and the small-brained, exquisitely-dressed woman
actually smothered a sigh.

Do you know his wife ] ' another acquaintance
asked Mrs. Trescott. ' No ? You miss
little! It did not cease to astonish all the world,
while she was here, the attention her husband
paid her. He was foolish enough to be a lover
rather than a husband, and she, of course, repaid
it by the most ill-mannered disagreeability.
Spanish, you know. For me, I don't care for
those fierce, self-engrossed southern women. She
does not come any more to the city, and we do
not grieve. We see a great deal more of the
count ! '

'I hope we may never meet those women
again ! ' exclaimed Beth indignantly, when they
were driving home.

You probably never will,' answered Mabel
carelessly. ' But I am glad to have seen them.
It makes one proud to know a man of whom
women will complain in that way. Oh, Beth, we
have a good, good friend in Rene ! '

Meantime the spring was blossoming fast into

summer, with the vividness of new life on every
leaf. The bine skies lifted themselves, and intensified
more and more like the beloved Italy,
which did not seem far away, and the three were
never weary of being out of doors, and found a
constantly-recurring interest in the patriotic incidents
M. d'Isten would tell them, with all the
fervour of his character shining in his face.

They were mostly tales of heroism, courage,
and self-abnegation, and Mabel remarked it one
day.

It is the French temperament, auntie,' said
Beth. 'They are always sacrificing themselves
for some noble idea.'

M. d'Isten gave her a glance of pleasure.

It isn't much self sacrifice usually,' said
Mabel. ' Glory is their goddess, and when anything
promises to bring her they don't much
care what they do.'

Oh, madame ! ' exclaimed M. d'Isten.

It's true,' she insisted. ' See how you overran

Europe, and destroyed your much-lauded
liberty, and gave them all only an elite of
slavery, and no fraternity at all ! And that is
your most glorious epoch ! '

It may well be exclaimed Beth, before M.
d'Isten could speak. ' See how everywhere they
went the people rose to help them, because the
French had first shown them how tyranny and
manhood are opposed ! There is not a monarch
in Europe, not even the Czar, who has such
despotic power as he did have, just because
France has risen and pealed through the Continent
the one word : Freedom ! It is the "Let
there be light n of the modern world.'

Bethesda's eyes were flashing as she sank
back in her seat. M. d'Isten had an expression
of proud gratitude on his face, and Mrs. Trescott
laughed.

1 Gracious, child ! what an explosion ! I
didn't know you were so devoted to France ;
what has happened ? '

You know I have always admired the French
said Beth, her lips quivering with that sensibility
which ever delighted M. d'Isten. ' They are
extremists, may be, but they are impassioned by
an idea as no other nation ever was. And I do
hate lukewarmness ! '

I fancy I remember mused Mabel, with a
teasing twinkle in her eyes, c a certain young
woman who wanted to kiss the ground when she
landed in France last. My dear, it's becoming
dangerous. I shall have to hurry you home ;
you might like France best yet ! '

Never ! ■ exclaimed the girl, her cheeks now
rosily tinted, for M. d'Isten was watching her
with curiosity. ' I shall always like my own
dear land best, — especially when I am away
from it.'

Ah ! you like it best when away from it ?
And you were glad to reach our France ? That
is good ! ' said M. d'Isten, with immense satisfaction.


She was glad, indeed. You ought to have
seen her in Dieppe, just crazy at being back
again.'

It is true,' acknowledged Beth ; ' and what I
can't understand is why I was so pleased to touch
France. If it had been Italy, now. But then I
did not particularly like France as France. 1
had not been in it enough, you know

She added this apologetically, with a glance
at M. d'Isten. He did not look as if he needed
any apology ; he was simply radiant. He bent
forward to arrange some wrap for her, and there
was a new, happy security in his manner. He
always treated her as if she were a frail queen,
who must have every wind shielded from her
with solicitude ; but now there was a delicate
tenderness in every touch, as if she had been
consigned to his protection.

You have forgotten your hatred of Paris,
haven't you ? ' asked Mabel.

'Yes, I like it now. It is really homelike

to me. Somehow, I never saw it this way
before.'

M. d'Isten caught his breath, and did not
dare look up. He felt an inexpressible relief
when Mabel remarked :

'I always told you it was your illness that
prejudiced you. I read you pretty well, cherie ;
you can trust to me.'



And Bethesda did not say nay.

They drove home swiftly, because a little late.
Every one was hastening to dinner ; the boulevards
were full, and the shopkeepers were like
children out of school. The labour and struggle
of the day seemed on every side to give place to
a buoyant sense of enjoyment which is peculiarly
French.

'This is the hour I like Paris best,' said
Bethesda. ' How happy each one seems ! Don't
you suppose one is better, truer, in being happy?'

1 1 am sure one is,' answered M. d'Isten gravely.

Ah, look ! ' exclaimed the girl.

They had rolled out from the Boulevard into
the Place de la Concorde, and now the broad
Elysian Fields rose gently before them, lined
with deep-green trees, bearing spikes of rose and
snowy bloom. At the top it was crowned by
the triumphal arch, uplifted against the sunset
sky, and seeming the gateway to a golden world.

Bethesda leaned forward in the landau to
catch the full view ; the light irradiated her
face, and brought out the glory of her hair ;
her eyes gazed at the dazzling splendour unblushingly,
for she felt a joy that made her
strong to bear any radiance. Her soul seemed
to expand with a twofold life, and leaped within
her. She felt an intense desire to spring forward
and delay the sun in its setting, just that time
might let her drink deeply of the happiness this
hour held.

But she was not afraid even of darkness, and
as they sped up the avenue amid the whirr of
wheels and tramp of horses' feet, she watched

the glowing light pale without fear. She trusted
in the new elixir which had come to her here.

Ever after, the fragrance of the chestnut
blossoms, and the home-coming atmosphere, recalled
that sight in magical clearness. She could
see it all, and she could feel, too, as she did then
almost unnoticed, Kene d'Isten's eyes shining
upon her.

Two things fill me with, awe — the starry heavens, and the
sense of moral responsibility in man.' — Kant.

Choose well, and your choice is
Brief, but yet endless.' Goethe.

The great hour came ; finally, of course, without
premeditation.

Bethesda had done much writing lately ;
nothing connected except her letters, but many
scraps of felicitous similes, of character sketches,
of word painting ; all of which had a strain of
unconscious pathos in them, suggesting that, like
her golden sunset sky, they might be painted
only on the material of tears.

She had much thought suggested to her now,
for every evening Bene d'Isten read aloud to
them from some French author, introducing

BETHESDA. [part i.

them, with consistent choice, to that fine analysis
of human nature which makes the French mind,
like the Greek, stand alone. He read in a manner
that let the words fall together into the vividness
of reality, bringing each thought into relief,
yet combining all so admirably that one could
not detach any separate expression without its
losing much of its value.

Then there would be discussions, or comparison
of ideas, on what they had read, in
which opposing views would be brought forward
and reconciled, — at least between Bethesda and
M. d'Isten. He was verifying preconceived ideas
with a sense of the fitness of things which was
indescribably keen ; and Bethesda glided from
surprise to surprise, in finding that M. d'Isten
had a multitude of opinions like hers, only more
developed and posed; and that there were a
number of points which they had each reached
with equal certitude by widely-diverging paths.
Each hour showed how much further back than

their acquaintance dated their mutual tendencies
toward one another. It was the destiny of their
characters that the)' should meet.

About ten every evening they separated, for
M. dTsten had social engagements which his
diplomatic duties did not allow him to neglect.
Politicians, especially where the intrigues of
Courts lead, well understand the necessity of
social power to compass any end ; and the
very charm of this friendship which now subsisted
between the three was greatly owing to
the fact that in no way did it interfere with
former duties or habits, but simply rounded the
whole.

Occasion ally. it is true, Mrs. Trescott would
try to detain M. d'Isten, just to test her power ;
but he understood her too well to yield ; and, if
she played the abused, he was always rewarded
by at least Bethesda's approval.

So the days and evenings came and went —

smoothly, suggestively, instructively — until an
vol. 1. R

evening in the last of May struck its date
ineffaceably on their lives.

Bethesda had been writing all day, hastening
to send off a couple of delayed letters. It had been
difficult for her to fix her mind on the incidents
she needed, and she was tired. She acknowledged
it when M. d'Isten inquired if her pretty work
was done, that she should sit with idle hands ?

Tired hands, and tired brain too,' she replied,
letting her head rest on the back of her wine-red
fauteuil. ' Don't read, please. I have been
pinning my mind so assiduously to its work today
that it is full of holes, and ideas would go
through it as if it were a sieve. Talk to us,
won't you ? Shan't he, auntie ? '

I am never averse to that form of entertainment,'
said Mabel, smiling.

Well, then, I will be speaker to-night,' said
M. d'Isten, his long-contemplated schemes suddenly
crystallising into action. ' Shall I tell you
what I have been doing to-day ? '

He addressed Mrs. Trescott, but moved his
chair so that he could include both ladies in one
glance. Madame Gabelle was fairly entangled in
the meshes of her silk embroidery. Bethesda
sat leaning her head, with its low masses of
bronzed gold, in profile against the passionate
colour. She looked somewhat sad, as usual,
when in repose. Her hands were crossed listlessly
; small, maidenly, firm hands, capable of
all devotion, so delicate yet strong were they ;
and her eyes rested with an indistinct pathos on
Bene d'Isten's face.

It seemed to him then that a current, invisible,
mysterious, and irresistible united them. Her
glance seemed to penetrate without refraction
into his inmost being'. But his soul could not
open to it ; not quite yet. He let his eyes fall
as he went on :

To-day I have been writing also. I was at
my desk before six o'clock. You are surprised,
mademoiselle? It is not so unusual, for I rise

early. This morning, however, I was unusually
interested. I received a letter last evening from
Madame d'Isten. It is a rare occurrence for her
to so favour me, and it held me awake for several
hours. And need I say so long a time could not
pass, without my also thinking of you ? '

His glance lingered on each of his companions,
and at last rested on Bethesda's hands. When he
spoke it was with slow emphasis.

You three and my father are those who stand
together, and alone, in my gallery of the world.'

Madame Gabelle beamed upon him, and he
returned it gratefully. Bethesda looked at him
in momentary surprise. How could she belong
to that select circle ? But of course it was only
his politeness.

I came to an understanding of it during the
night,' he went on, ' but I can always determine
best in writing, so I have it written here. May
I read you a little ? '

c We should be delighted,' said Mabel.

• I call it : My Friends : and I take them as
they came to me.'

It was written in French, of course ; its
delicacy will be ruined by translation, but it
must be done for truth's sake.

1 My father is my friend of all time. He has
held ever before me the inspiring example of
integrity and honour. To him, after my country,
are due my allegiance and highest esteem.

• Louise accepted me as her husband. To her
I owe willing service, ready sympathy, untiring
care and affection.

1 Madame Gabelle has conferred upon me the
knighthood of her American friendship. To her
I lend admiration and deferential homage. I
may add that she has given me much of the
keenest pleasure of my existence.

'Bethesda is my intellectual counterpart.
She incites me to activity in every field. She
inspires me to believe I am capable of doing
what heretofore I have only dreamed. She completes

each half-formed thought. She fills the
ideal form of womanhood. To her I give fealty,
reverence, and impregnable devotion.'

As the last words fell from his lips he looked
up. Bethesda had grasped the arms of her chair,
and was sitting upright, her eyes dazzling, and
her cheeks flushed.

She lost remembrance of everything previous
in the surprise of that last paragraph. She was
amazed, astounded ; and yet she felt it was true.
Her eyes did not sink before his as he met her
quivering glance. It quivered through every
barrier, every veil, to the real core of the man.
It was a marvel that he could bear it unthinkingly,
but his long education served him well at
this supreme need. He saw, and knew, and
understood ; and at the same instant held fast to
his self-possession. He was not afraid of what
she should see, and he was aware now of what
he should do.

Mrs. Trescott watched them in some confusion.

This was an unexpected tearing away of the veil
for her. It not only surprised her, but aroused
some alarm. What did it all mean ? And
where might it lead ? As long as the paramount
attraction in the tripartite friendship was held to
be herself, she had no fears. Was she not nine
years his elder? But here sprang up danger.
The little piece of paper had sent a lightning
flash over the land, and disclosed it to be a strange
one, where she had supposed it thoroughly
familiar.

She looked keenly from one to the other with
her now black eyes.

Beth was certainly excited, and as certainly
pleased. To inspire such a man's intellect was
no small thing ; the trouble might be, was it not
too great a thing ?

She turned to him. There was some excitement
manifest in his manner also, but he was
gravely answering Beth' s eager, deprecatory
questions as to how it could be true, by showing

her that her American birth, her education, her
life, had all combined to make her a new person
to him, and one who appealed strongly to what
he was pleased to name his unwarmed, but not
insensible mind.

'Your mental vigour,' he went on to say,
when you are so fragile, inspired me with admiration
before I had ever seen you ; and since
there has been conferred upon me the pleasure
of an intimate acquaintance my impression has
been indelibly fixed. This is one of the pleasures
Madame Gabelle has given me.'

He looked towards her with a smile, and some
hidden anxiety.

I hope it will always be a pleasure,' she said
seriously.

You are good,' he answered, purposely misinterpreting
her phrase. He took her hand, and
rising, kissed it.

Be careful,' she said, in a warning tone so
low that preoccupied Beth did not hear.

He gave her a sharp, inquiring glance. She
shook her head in doubt.

See,' said he in a reassuring voice, seating
himself in his old position, and spreading out his
hands with a frank gesture, ' I will tell you all I
have in my mind. Ever since I was a boy I
have been fond of literature, but I have not had
sufficient faith in myself to pursue it as a career.
I am not satisfied that my thoughts are original
or worth recording, or my fancies either poetical or
just. In spite of these doubts I have written some,
and have felt a new power since I have known
Miss Bethesda. With this in view I have a suggestion
to make. It has been gradually maturing
in my mind until I am convinced of its success.'

He looked from one to the other to judge
what might be safe to say. Bethesda was all
eager anticipation, with a shadow of humility
softening her face. Mabel, relieved by his words
and manner, had resumed her work. He proceeded
:

Mademoiselle is about to return to America ;
her correspondence will then be stopped, you tell
me. I propose, to avoid this, that in my letters
to you, madame, I shall enclose some pages of
incidents, which I am fortunately situated for
obtaining, and which she can then mould and
amplify as she would her own notes. What do
you think of it, madame ? '

It would be very lucky for her, I'm sure,'
replied Mabel. There was no danger in this.

'But do you think I could do it V hesitated
Beth.

Certainly,' was M. d'Isten's prompt response.
They should be identical with your own notes.
You know the life here, and could give them
fulness and colour to perfection. The political
portions I would, if you desired, write out more
amply. You could undoubtedly make it successful.'


I don't see why you couldn't,' added Mabel.

1 1 had not expected to do anything for the

papers when I went home remarked Beth, still
timidly. ; I thought I would try magazine
articles, or stories, perhaps.'

There, too, I could aid you,' persisted M.
d'Lsten. ' Your ideas are different, and yet in
many ways the same as mine. We study
humanity from a similar point of view. You
analyse and idealise man as I analyse and
idealise institutions. We appreciate the same
characteristics ; we admire the same qualities.
But you are a woman — I am a man : we will,
necessarilY, see different sides of life : we will
have different experiences. I could give you
suggestions, with, perhaps, some virile force, and
you could lend them body. and form, and grace.
It would make your books have an unusual
character, and give them the power of appealing
to a larger audience, mademoiselle.'

1 Indeed it would,' exclaimed Bethesda, catching
a glimpse of how much wealth would in this
way reach her work, and how much good might

be done by it. ' I wonder if it could be accomplished.'


'Why not? We could at least try, and I
have no doubts of the result. If we accustom
ourselves to write together, I am convinced it
will be an imperative need not again to be
eliminated. My trust is not wholly unfounded
he added, after a moment's pause ; and then he
told them of the feuilletons he had written ; that
others had been solicited but refused, because he
was himself dissatisfied with them.

I know now that this is what I have always
desired. You could round my whole intellectual
life, Miss Bethesda; you could develop sources
of enjoyment and benefit which never have, nor
ever could be, otherwise developed; — and who
can say what benefit may accrue to others, from
thoughts thus combined, and perceptions doubled
in strength and feeling ? '

He was bending upon her the whole force of
his will, and the magnetism to which she was so

sensitive. He held her under the control of his
mind, as it were, but with the consent of her
own will, free from all other influences. The
existence which animated him was no longer
simple, but complex ; he had no consciousness
outside the focus of this concentrated life. It
must be.

Bethesda rose and paced the room to and
fro. Her hands were clasped behind her ; warm
colour was in her cheeks, and her eyes gleamed
with constantly changing lights. Each instant
she raised them to M. d' 1st en s intent face, as if
studying and appealing to him at the same
time.

It was an immense temptation. Nothing
could have been more absolutely in consonance
with her tastes (didn't Bene* d'Isten know this ?) ;
to help another, to please one she liked, to be of
use, were passionate desires with her. And how
much it would benefit her ! The strength, and
surety, and precision which she knew she lacked

would thus be gained ; and perhaps sometimes,
as he said, it might do good.

There is a vigour of purpose, a vivid comprehension
of the difference one soul can make,
that infuses youth with a grandeur all its own.
Each soul is the possible pivot on which the
world may turn, and youth feels this with an
intensity which make promises seem deeds, and
tendencies fulfilment ; and Bethesda was in the
glamour of all this now. But could it be done ?
There were a thousand difficulties which she, her
mind suddenly enlightened, could apprehend ;
and which he, perhaps, did not. In any case
hers would be the responsibility, and if he were
not content ? She suggested this frankly.

But I should be,' he answered with emphasis.
My part would always be one of suggestion :
nothing less, nothing more. You would have absolute
freedom to accept or reject any expression,
any idea. And what you did I should not question.
To me it would be right because you did it

Xo, no : I must have the benefit of your
criticism, as you say you wish mine. I shall need
it vastly more.'

*' But it would not be feasible he replied firmly.
I shall send von everything, and you could not

«/ Jo 3 J

send it back before publication. No ; what I

once give you is yours for ever. You can keep

it or discard it. You do with it what you choose. '

Thevv talked the plan over a long; time, Mrs.

J A. O

Trescott, because this concerned others entirely,
and, perhaps, for another reason, saw more clearly
than the others where it tended. Her fears, dispelled
at first by M. dTsten's business-like manner,
returned as this remarkable conception took form
and reality before her. All confused as the fears
were, they made her uneasy. She asked each of
them to write out calmly the conditions of this
compact, and follow it out to its furthest results ;
they would be better able then to judge whether
it were advisable to consolidate it. She even
suggested to Bene the specific danger of future

developments. This was when Beth had gone to
her room for something. She returned before he
had time to answer, but his dignified self-possession
and unruffled security again calmed her —
especially as they acquiesced in her suggestion
without hesitation.

But they were both, consciously or unconsciously,
determined to carry out the plan. Bene
d'Isten had long ago resolved upon it, and Bethesda
was swayed to forget the scruples which
only questioned her own inability, and to enter
into it with enthusiasm.

She looked at him as she would on one transformed
in her sight. All their intercourse suddenly
took on a new meaning. Her place, from
being that of a casual friend, below many others,
was changed to that of one elected to stand alone
by the side of this man, — alone, separated from
the whole world, as his intellectual companion. •

Rene d'Isten hardly dared to glance at her ;
he was conscious in every fibre of his being that

she recognised her position, — that she had already
left her aunt, her friends, her former associations,
her old self, to step into the richness of her
womanhood, and take the place he had chosen
her to fill. Because of the very intensity of this
knowledge he ignored it, and shielded himself in
his consummate self-control.

All his skill was needed in winning over
Mrs. Trescott. She was of a deeply jealous temperament
; he knew half of her uneasiness — which
he clearly understood, and also its well-founded
reasons — was an unconscious stirring of this fatal
poison. It is human nature, he told himself, to
dislike seeing some one unexpectedly preferred
before one's self. Heretofore he had been her especial
friend ; through this evening's work he became
far more closely united to her niece. It was
human nature in him also, that her preoccupation
and visible uneasiness, thus explained by him,
should flatter him enough to make him throw

much earnestness into his persuasion, and to use
vol, 1. s

eloquence with the finest art. It was highly
necessary, moreover, that she should be won to
their plan ; which, in the present stage, could not
go on without her ; so, with the most delicate
discrimination, he allayed the fears she never
suspected had been aroused, and won her to a
tacit consent in the experiment.

They were surprised, at last, by midnight. M.

d'Isten took a hasty and apologetic leave. Mabel

detained Beth, after he had gone, to warn her to

look carefully before she bound herself to this

compact. What if she should find this intellectual

companionship meant more to her than she now

thought it would ? What if it should make her

unhappy ? Supposing it filled her mind so as to

keep her from marrying ? Think what a lonely

life that would be. She, herself, without husband

or children, often found life hard, and yet she had

had her nieces to educate. She did not want to

see her darling, whom she had sheltered so long,

saddened in the brightest period of her life. She

wanted her to be always a sunbeam, carrying
light and pleasure wherever she went.

At these tender words Beth embraced her aunt,
and promised her she would think ; she would
confront the question in its whole extent, and
judge without bias.

And Mabel sent the girl off to bed, feeling as
if an earthquake had taken place, and that her
little girl's life had suddenly diverged far from
hers. But she would resign herself if only the
child might be happy.

Bethesda, once in her own room, did not
think of sleep. There were two windows — one
looking out on the street, the other over a
garden full of trees, fragrant bushes, and vines.
Some of the Virgin Vine wreathed the arched
window and crept in over the low sill. She
went and knelt there, leaning her arms onions
the tendrils, the first of many times when the
small hours found her in the same position.

She felt as if her mind had an immensity as

large as the deep-blue heavens, and with as
many points of palpitating white light. They
might be worlds, or they might be unknown
fires ; she scarcely cared which. The universe
was filled with the glad exultation now thrilling
through her. Her heart throbbed with swift
fulness ; her limbs, even as she knelt, trembled
under her ; yet she felt a conquering strength,
an illimitable power of action and devotion which
caught her up into an uncalculating rapture.

Gradually, however, the hour, the silence,
the distant stars, calmed her. She began to
think instead of only feeling, and finally rose,
lit candles, and paced up and down her room.

In writing thus together it would become of
great value to both of them undoubtedly. But
just here came a danger, as Aunt Mabel suggested.
If they met and harmonised thoroughly
in intellect, was there not a possibility of their
meeting in other ways, warmer and more
perturbed ?

For him ? — he must decide.

For herself? — Well, she found him, outside
their compact, a noble, unselfish, and pure man.
He was strong ; he had conquered himself, and
thus gained the force to conquer others. He
grasped her with quiet firmness ; he appealed
to much of what she believed was the best in
her; — but this all mentally and morally. She
wondered sometimes that she did not have to
guard herself more with him ; the secret was
that there was nothing against which she needed
protection. They met as minds alone, and
would do so more and more as their intercourse
was confined to that only. Of this she felt sure.

But taking it at the uttermost ; supposing
that she would find no man who could efface
him, so but that he would stand high above
them all ; supposing that the thought of him
should prevent her marrying ; — what then ?

He was noble ; it would not be degrading to
admire, even to love, mentally, a married man,

so that they remained ever on those heights
where base fogs could not reach them. It could
do no harm ; he would never know it, or, in
knowing it, would recognise it as a crystal-pure
affection that contained no danger to either of
them. And she would have a noble ideal, a
cultivated mind, a self-sacrificing life to love.
What harm, almost what sorrow, could that be
to her ? It would be a lonely life, perhaps sad,
but an elevated one, which would in the end
raise her from the tumult of an impulsive
woman's existence to serene heights, whence a
wider vision of the world could be obtained.

She wrote the argument out in her diary, and
ended it with these words : { I see no danger
that can deter me. I accept the compact.'

END OF VOL. I.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

Price 6S. each volume. Crown Svo, cloth.

By the Rev. Charles Kingsley.

Westward Ho !

Hepatic.

Here-ward the Wake — Last of
the English.

Two Years Ago.

Yeast.

Alton Locke. With Portrait.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

With Illustrations by Kate Greenaway,
Herbert Gandy, Adrian
Stokes, J. P. Atkinson, Marian-huxley,
W. J. Hennessy, and
Jane E. Cook.

The Heir of Radcliffe.

Heartless ; or, The Brother's
Wife.

Hopes and Fears ; or, Scenes
from the Life of a Spinster.

Dynevor Terrace ; or, The Clue
of Life.

The Daisy Chain.

The Trial : More Links of the

Daisy Chain.
Pillars of the House. 2 vols.

The Young Stepmother ; or, A

Chronicle of Mistakes.
The Clever Woman of the Family.
The Three Brides.
My Young Ascites.

By Charlotte M. Yonge— Could.

The Caged Lion.

The Dove in the Eagle's Nest.

The Chaplet of Pearls.

Lady Hester, and the Dangers
Papers.

Magnum Bonum.

Love and Life.

Unknown to History.

By William Black.
A Princess of Thule.
Strange Adventures of a Phaeton.

Illustrated.
The Maid of Killeena ; and other

Tales.
Madcap Violet.

Green Pastures and Piccadilly.
The Beautiful Wretch : The Four

MacNicols : The Pupil of Aurelius.
Macleod of Dare. Illustrated.
White Wings. A

Romance.

Shannon Bells.

Yachting

By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman."

The Gillies. Illustrated.

The Head of the Family. Illustrated.


Olive. Illustrated.

Agatha's Husband. Illustrated.

My Mother and I. Illustrated.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

Price 6s. each Volume. Crown 8vo, cloth.

Tom Brown's Schooldays. Illustrated.


Tom Brown at Oxford. By the
Author of " Tom Brown's Schooldays."
Illustrated.

John Inglesant. By J. H. Short-house.


The Fool of Quality. By H.
Brooke. Edited by Charles
Kingsley.

Hugh Crichton's Romance.
C. R. Coleridge.

By Annie Weary.
Castle Daly.
Sudbury.

A York and a Lancaster Rose.
A Doubting Heart.
Clemency Franklin.
Janet's Home.

By

A Beleaguered City. By Mrs.
Oliphant.

Realms. By the author of " Friends
in Council."

Rose Turquand. By Ellice Hopkins.


By Henry James.

The American.

The Europeans.

Daisy Miller : An International
Episode : Four Meetings.

The Madonna of the Future ; and
Other Tales.

Frederick Hudson.

Washington Square : The Pension
Beaurepas : A Bundle of
Letters.

The Portrait of a Lady.

By Frances H. Burnett.

Ha worth's.

Louisiana," and " That Lass o'
Lowrie's." Two Stories. Illustrated.


Bengal Peasant Life. By Al

Behari Day.
Th( Laughing Mill ; and other

Tales. By Julian Hawthorne.
Vida : Study of a Girl. By Amy

Dunsmuir.

Old Sir Douglas. By the Hon.

'Irs. Norton.
Virgin Soil. By Tongue" neff.

MACMILLAN'S TWO

In Crown 8vo.
By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman."
The Gillies. Olive.

The Head of the Family.
Agatha's Husband.
Two Marriages.

By George Fleming.
A Nile Novel. Mirage.

The Head of Medusa.

Patty. By Mrs. Macquoid.

SHILLING NOVELS.

Cloth. 2s. each.

By Mrs. OLIPHANT.
A Son of the Soil.
The Curate in Charge.
Young Margrave.
He that will not when he may.

By the
Author of " Hogan, M.P."

Hogan, M.P. Christy Carew.

The Hon. Miss Ferrara.

Flitters, Tatters, and the Counsellor:
Weeds : and other Sketches.

A Little Pilgrim : In the Unseen. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

By the Author of "John Inglesant."

The Little Schoolmaster Mark. A Spiritual Romance. By

J. H. Shorthouse, Author of "John Inglesant." Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Such a story is worth a dozen first-rate novels. . . . Mr. Shorthouse's ' Little Schoolmaster
Mark' is most charming." — The Academy.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

>

BY

BAEBAEA Elbow

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME IL

iLontfon

Macmillan And CO.



hi ILL I-

PART I.

continued.)

VOL. II. B

Is there naiiglit better than to enjoy ?
No deed which, done, will make time break,
Letting us pent-up creatures through
Into eternity, our due, —
No forcing earth teach heaven's employ V

Egbert Browning.

The next day was Sunday, a balmy beautiful
day. Everywhere was the atmosphere of festivity
which characterises a Continental Sabbath.
All the world intended to take the fullest enjoyment
from the mild Majfete, and Mrs. Trescott
and Bethesda were going to do the same. It
had become a custom to them to be out-of-doors
all the pleasant Sundays with M. d'Isten, who
was then free, and delighted to devote his whole
time to them. Often they went to church to
hear high mass, — Mrs. Trescott yielding the

American chapel because there was a clergyman
there she disliked, — and then wandered out into
the country, or to some of the pleasure-grounds
which are numerous in Paris, taking a light
luncheon where they could find it, and sharing an
innocent gaiety with the people of the great city.

Sometimes they spent the long sunny hours
in a country ramble, driving out fairly beyond
the city, and then strolling through the woods,
or idling under the trees, or visiting rural farmhouses
; many of which were afterwards sent
intact to America by Bethesda's pen. To-day,
however, it had been previously arranged that
they were to go to church ; and, after a luminous
night's rest, when she never fell so soundly
asleep but that she was conscious of an unusual
brightness in her mind, Beth rose and took her
coffee alone. It was not until the morning was
well advanced that her aunt appeared.

Well, cherie, how is it this morning ? Have
you been up writing since daybreak ? '

Not quite, auntie ; one does not need to rise
so very early to be ahead of you ! '

Impertinent ! But what have you written ?
Won't you read it to me ? '

Bethesda paused a moment, and turned over
the pages thoughtfully before she replied :

Yes, if you like.'

I would very much like to hear it,' said Mrs.
Trescott, seating herself opposite Beth.

She watched her, trvino; to see between the
lines, while she listened to the earnest tones in
which the young woman read what she had
written before she slept. Bethesda finally
looked up with a somewhat solemn bravery in
her eyes as she pronounced the words :

I accept the compact.'

Mabel's face was curiously tender and admiring.


So,' she said, with a long breath which
seemed of relief, ' you have decided. I hope it
will prove all you think it, darling.' After a

moment she added : ^ I wish Eene could see
that.'

^ What ! ' exclaimed Beth, flushing.

I do ; all but the very last, at any rate. It
would make him understand, and appreciate you
even better than he doest

'Do you think the last is wrong V asked
Bethesda, with a searching glance.

No ; not wrong. Sorrowful, maybe, sweetheart.'


She put her hand on Beth's lap, and the girl
took it in both her own.

If it is not wrong, I won't find it sorrowful,
rest assured, auntie. It is a greater richness than
most women have in their lives. Besides, that is
only an extreme case, which I never should have
thought about if you had not suggested it.'

She met her aunt's fond gaze with open
sunniness.

You must be married some day, dear,' said
Mabel ; ' but for me — alack the day.'

\r.

You wouldn't be sorry if this kept me beside
you 1 ' asked Betli archly.

Yes, yes ; I don't want you to remain unmarried.
It is not a happy life.'

Here the sound of a knock on the parlour door
disturbed them.

•' It is M. d'Isten ! ' exclaimed Bethesda. ' Weare
late.'

He had come to see, he said, if they still had
the desire to go to church ? Thanks, he would
not come in.

^ You wish to go, Beth ? ' asked Mrs. Trescott.

Indeed I do, greatly,' was the answer.

La petite devote ! ' said Eene, smiling, and
left them.

The Madeleine was full when they arrived.
M. d'Isten took them in by a side entrance, and
Mabel was seated on one side of the small door,
Bethesda and M. d'Isten on the other.

Bethesda had brought her little Imitation,
with the prayers in the front and directions for

joining in the mass. It was one M. d'Isten had
given her. She was in a devout mood ; she felt
an unwonted drawing towards religion. There
was a deep yearning for communion with One
all-seeing and all-mighty ; with One who could
guide her, absolutely, to the best. Conscience
began to tremble as life pressed upon her with
new thoughts and new questions. Bethesda had
yet to learn that abstract right is above any
conscience, and that it we must obey. Principle
was not yet developed in her. The instincts of
her nature were true and noble, but the quivering
needle of a compass is not more unsteady in
comparison to the polar star, than conscience in
comparison to principle. Let some iron force, or
some electric current, come, and the index hand
would point far from due north. Even at the
best sailors are obliged to make allowances for
the nails in their own ships, as well as a thousand
larger things, before they can rely upon
their compasses ; and the bias of one's own

nature, beside the many influences of heredity
and education, makes one's conscience a very
fallible guide.

But this was all unrecognised, and Bethesda
only felt the tendency which caused her to lend
herself reverently to the solemn rites performed
before her. She and M. d'Isten knelt and rose
together ; he looked over the tiny book she held,
and read what she read ; occasionally he caught
her eyes. They were full of a deep wistfulness ;
now soothed by a strengthening line, now awed
by the mysterious majesty of the music, and the
sacrifice offered at the altar.

These symbols appealed to her profoundly,
but she could not grasp a single satisfying idea.
They soared around her, above her, like the
music ; they escaped her as the incense would
have done had she tried to hold it ; there was
nothing she could touch, nothing she could make
hers.

Again the question came to her : M. d'Isten

was a Catholic, could he really hold fast by
this ?

She looked up straight and full into his eyes.
The glance startled him ; he did not understand
what it meant. Here was a side of her nature
which, with all his quick perceptions, he could
not read.

Her eyes fell, disappointed. She turned over
a few pages of her book without noticing them.
Then these words caught her eyes :

By two wings man is lifted up from things
earthly : Simplicity and purity. Simplicity
ought to be in our intention ; purity in our
affection. Simplicity doth seek God ; purity
doth find and apprehend Him.'

See ! ' she whispered.

Her face was beaming ; her eyes shone with
a delicious sweetness. He looked to where she
pointed. Why should these words have produced
such a transfiguration ? Did she really
want God so much ?

He took the book gently, and found a page
whictL lie gave her to read.

Love is a great thing, yea, a great and
thorough good ; by itself it makes everything
that is heavy light, and it bears with equal
serenity all the circumstances of life.

Nothing is sweeter than love, nothing more
courageous, nothing higher, nothing wider, nothing
more pleasant, nothing fuller nor better
in heaven or earth ; because love is born of
God, and cannot rest but in God, above all His
creations.'

Bethesda's eyes were blind with tears when
she finished. How well he understood her ! If
she only could love God. Perhaps she did. It
seemed to her that anything would be easy to
bear if she could only be sure God existed,
so that she might love Him. If she could see
Jesus, how gladly she would throw herself at
His feet, and kiss them, and weep over them !
But God ? He was so far away !

She dared not trust herself to look anywhere
but on her book, or she might have seen a flash
of sudden jealousy on M. d'Isten's face.

That is truer to me of my friends than of
God he whispered hurriedly.

She did not distinguish the words, for a
thunderous peal of the organ just then rolled
through the temple. The sudden start shook
two big tears on to her cheeks, and when she
had brushed them away, and turned her chaste
eyes up to him, he had for the moment no desire
greater than that she should not know what he
had said. Her purity of soul must not be disturbed.


From the church their landau took them out
through the Champs Elysees, beyond the Bois,
and on into the country, by roads which M.
d'Isten's schoolboy days had taught him.

They came finally to a group of trees on a
bank above the Seine. The city lay concealed
behind them ; no house was in sight, but blue

wreaths of smoke beyond a hillock told of a
noonday meal. A suburban village was not
far off, the coachman said ; he would put up his
horses there. Marcott was a devoted retainer of
M. d'Isten's (the ladies did not know this), and
was perfectly reliable. He carried rugs and
shawls down to the shady nook by the river,
and then di^ove away.

When he had disappeared there was not a
sign of human life but that delicate, treacherous
smoke.

M. d' 1st en arranged everything in the most
convenient manner for the ladies, and then
threw himself at their feet with a sigh of content
which Bethesda noticed. She had been unusually
silent ever since they left the church,
but the quietude was of pleasure. These Sundays
where delightful holidays to her ; how dear
they were she did not know until afterwards.
Her aunt was in the especial humour for it today,
and they both enjoyed watching Eene

d'Isten, whose air of self-possessed distinction
never left Mm, while he relaxed under the influence
of nature, and became dreamy and content.

What would Madame de la R , and Mesdemoiselles

de St. H , who suppose you

so repressed and unapproachable, think now?'
asked Mabel, smiling at his luxurious sense of
abandon.

Truly it would be a revelation to them,'
answered Rene, his head on his hand and his
eyes reposing on Bethesda's clasped hands. ' One
does not know me to the depths,' he continued
presently. ' It is no marvel, for I. did not know
myself.'

Do you think, then, that you know yourself
now ? '

I am learning ; you teach me fast.'

He included them both in a quiet glance, and
then let his eyes fall to the river sweeping almost
silently past their feet. It met with no obstacles
to cause it to show its strength.

What are you thinking about now ? ' asked
Mabel idly.

*My unbuilt castle by the sea he responded,
without hesitation. ' I often visit it. Every
stone is as known to me as this stream. The
ocean is frothing now around the base of the
precipice, for it is calm ; but in stormy weather
it dashes its spray even to the windows, a hundred
and fifty feet above.'

'Windows. It's all window there now, isn't it ? '

'Not in my dreams. The castle, and the
chapel, and the lighthouse are built, and inhabited,
too, then. Do you know by what name
I shall call them ? '

The last I heard it was as undecided as the
rest of it. Some fanciful idea you have now, I
suppose ? '

She spoke carelessly, but he answered with
slow impressiveness :

It is a beautiful name ; I have chosen it after
long consideration. It is — Bethesda.'

Not really ! ' exclaimed Betli.
You will let me ? '

I could not possibly object she said a little
slowly.

Do you remember in Florence, Madame
Gabelle, when you first told me your niece wrote,
and that she used her own name, Bethesda ? '

His foreign tongue lent this Hebrew word a
sweetness of pronunciation which was not lost
on the ladies, and which he seemed pleased to
linger over.

You said,' he continued, 'that she had always
associated some meaning, as yet unknown, with
her name, and the story in the Holy Bible.
Last night I thought of this, and of the beacon I
am to build off a dangerous coast. It will guide
weary mariners to safety ; it will restore hope to
the despairing, and they will bless the name it
bears. I could think of none so fitted to it as
Bethesda. Le Chateau de Bethesda ; la Phare
de Bethesda.'

He looked up with the dreaminess of his tone
in his dark eyes, and met Bethesda's. They reminded
him of some shadowed cove of the shore
near his home, where the limpid water lay deep
and still, only the tide throbbing far beneath the
glinting surface.

I don't see why, if you are going to build
really, you banish yourself to that 
coast,' said Mrs. Trescott in a practical
tone. ' Why don't you buy a place in Brittany
or Normandy, where it would be fashionable, and
you could spend the summer months ? Madame
d' 1st en might join you then.'

She does not like the sea. She prefers her
present position to any other.' He gave Mrs.
Trescott a glance of reminder, and then continued
: ' This is to be my castle ; I shall have it
for my own. I may not live in it long during
the year, but I shall have a consciousness of its
existence ; of a place that I can go to at any time
and be at rest.'

VOL. II. c



What a dreamer you are ! ' exclaimed Mabel,
somewhat impatiently. 'You might do a great
deal better work with your money. And besides,
how are you going to explain giving your
castle " such a fantastic name ? '

Is it fantastic, madame ? However, if persons
are inquisitive I shall know how to silence them.
To my friends I shall say it is my nom de plume,
and that I choose to name my castle the same.'

Le grand seigneur ! ' laughed Mabel. Then
sobering : ' So you will say frankly that " Bethesda"
is your nom de plume f Shall you tell
your wife of this compact ? Have you decided
to adopt it ? You must each think for yourselves,
you know. Beth read me this morning
what she had written ; will you ? '

Mrs. Trescott spoke hastily. The subject had
been avoided until she seized this opportunity.

I will read it to you both one of these days,'
said Bene. ' I am resolved upon the compact, if
mademoiselle consents, and I am assured she will.'

o'

His eyes met Bethesda's in a sure claiming
and she repeated with the almost solemn gravity
with which she had read the words to her aunt :

Yes, I accept the compact.'

Eene d' 1st en sprang to his feet as the words
passed her lips, thus giving expression to the
bound of soul within him. To such words he
could trust ; his aim was reached.

Thank you, Bethesda,' he said, standing close
beside her, and there was an intonation in his
voice which Beth presently learned she alone
could cause.

Days passed, June came and brooded with a
delicious sweetness over land and sea ; over
flowers of the earth and flowers of the mind.
Nature unclosed, and let the warm sunbeams
steal into the furl of every leaf; white lilacs
bloomed and filled all Paris with their perfume ;
roses smoothed their creased young petals, and
expanded their delicate filaments in rich development.
Everything, in fact, was redolent of life.

and shook into the air new vitality, and beauty,
and strength.

The compact concluded between Eene d'Isten
and Bethesda drew them more and more intimately
together. It was as if an isthmus had
been cut away and the waves of two seas were
allowed to flow freely into one another. Each
hour of intercourse told, by some drifted of
conversation, how far the waters of one had advanced
into the other, and every sign spoke of
a surprising distance traversed.

Mrs. Trescott felt them gradually receding
from her, and towards one another, but was unable
to do anything to avert the danger, if
danger it was. The isthmus was gone ; nothing
was to be done now but watch and wait. It
would not be long anyway ; they were to sail ina
month or six weeks. She supported herself,
meantime, by the belief that two such extraordinary
beings as were her niece and her friend
could do extraordinary things without ordinary

results ; and ignored the sovereignty of natural
laws.

But it was a necessity to Lier to ' speak her
mind and she did so, both to Eene and Bethesda.
She only spoke, however ; and, in constant references
to what mioiit be the dauQ-ers to others,
let none of their tendencies come upon them with
the enlightening shock of surprise, but thus
blunted their sensibilities, and helped them to
remain, ethically, asleep.

Eene d'Isten, however, was not wholly asleep.
He had recognised very clearly, on the evening
of announcing his plan, that it would lead Bethesda
and himself to a unity of more than minds.
He saw the irritability of growth in a sprouting
plant, unless some one pulled it up by the roots,
against which catastrophe he guarded with utmost
care. For he did not think it wrong that this
beautiful arouse should grow and blossom ; the
fruit alone would be wrong to touch. And he
had no fears that either of them would be tempted

to touch it. Bethesda was pure as an angel, and
lie was going to be unlike other men. Had he
not been, all his life ? Why should he now become
commonplace and vulgar, just when all the
best in him was stimulated and increased ? Bah !
it was sacrilege to think of it !

Not one of the three realised the importance
of thoughts, how they are only the buds of deeds,
and that, even if they never reach fruition, their
fragrance may be fatal. Not one of them recognised
that it is possible to transgress all the commandments
of every school of morality in one's
heart, yet keep the outward life irreproachable.

Still the instinct of principle, the moral sense,
which responds, as the intellect does not, to the
actual right and wrong, will not let one transgress
without remonstrance. Night after night Bethesda
knelt in her open window, and let the stifled
conflict surge within her. If at any time she had
known it absolutely to be wrong, she could have
summoned strength enough to break ofi" the whole

affair and leave the city. But there was nothing
to assure her it was wrong. Her aunt vacillated ;
she herself felt the purity of her intentions, and an
utter confidence in Rene ; and he did not speak.

For M. d'Isten was one of those men who did
not deceive, he only did not expose. He considered
that character which allows its whole self
to be seen by any one who cares to look, asa
boorish, ungraceful, and almost immoral one.
Garments, he would have said, are as necessary to
the soul as to the body in civilised society. We
cannot sro around telling; our inmost thoughts, or
holding up our hands, that each person may read
our fortunes in our palms. Let us drape ourselves
as gracefully as may be, and then we will
respect ourselves and one another vastly more.

Only, such a man would not say any of this,
he would live it ; and this is what others are to
see and understand, and guide their own actions
accordingly ; and it is also what neither Mabel
nor Bethesda did.

'What might have been is sad indeed ;

What should have been is sadder still ;
The happiness our spirits need
Is not of circumstance, but will.'

Your pity is the suffering mother of love : its anguish is
the very natal pang of the divine passion.' — Jane Eyre.

One evening, in the second week of their compact,
the conversation drifted, or was guided,
towards what they were first to write in unison.
The letters were already arranged ; in
fact, one had been written the previous week,
worked up from Eene's notes and Beth's observation
into what was really excellent, and
pleased Mrs. Trescott hardly less than it did the
double Bethesda.

But both were eager to commence something

-3

more notable and continuous ; something they
could plan now and execute later.
Bethesda suggested a story.

A story it shall be,' said Eene, delighted.
But what vnll we treat ? What shall be chosen
for the subject ?'

Bethesda Q-ave an outline which she had already
sketched.

'No,' objected Eene, with a smile, 'we must
have something' original to the new Bethesda.
I am going to be very jealous of what you have
abbacy thought. Let me give you the germ ;
that is my prerogative. Let it be a story based
on my life.'

But, Eene ! I never could write that!'

Pardon me ; I am convinced no one could
do it so well. Besides, I shall help you!' and
he plunged into the scheme with ardour, for
autobiography comes easiest to an inexperienced
writer.

I shall tell you all,' he said ; ' I shall give

you my opinion of what lias passed, and you
can sift them, throw away what is useless, and
keep what you can make good. You shall judge
me and my actions, and write freely from yourself,
as well as from me. It will clarify everything,
and let light on the underground world of
the past. Come, it will be excellent !'

Was there some hidden reason why he wished
her to know him thus intimately? Or was it
only an artist's fervid desire to paint what he
knew best ?

Bethesda remembered the secret in his life,
and hesitated.

There must be no concealments,' he resumed,
more gravely. ^ You shall be my conscience, to
dictate where I have done wrong, and where I
should alter my conduct in the future. You
need say nothing, but put it in the work, and I
shall understand. You shall know everything,
Bethesda, as I know it myself If expression
fails me, your insight will abundantly compensate.

But, above all things, be frank. Do
not fear to write as you think ; speak as you
would to yourself. I shall understand each
word, and shall be grateful to you for making
my duties easier to perform.'

His voice had fallen into that low and persuasive
intonation which ever leaned on the
tenderest chords of the woman's heart. Long
ago she had said it left her no power, or even
wish, to refuse. So she consented, faintly. Her
fears for her literary incapacity were mingled
with a somewhat weakening premonition of the
events she would have to hear. She looked forward
to it with an indefinable dread. Could
she bear to see him so worked upon as her aunt
had described when he brought her from proud
ano^er to tears that first nio-ht in Florence, so
lons^, long' ao;o ?

But once her consent won, Bene had resumed
his interested manner. He said they must begin
immediately ; there never was a better time

than the present — when the present was good.
She could make her notes now, and he would
look them over to see there were no incorrect
impressions. He roused her from her passivity
by threatening to look through her desk for
pencil and notebook, and by the time they were
seated, Eene to talk and the ladies to listen, the
three were in thorough harmony.

He spoke with admirable perspicuity and
ease ; each incident was pointed by that inimitable
French faculty of seizing the very
arrowhead of thought to which the language
lends itself in an unequalled manner. There
were many delicately-drawn sketches of scenery,
surroundings, and character which Bethesda despaired
of reproducing. At first she dotted down
this and that fact, a duty of which Eene had frequently
to remind her, until he too became so
absorbed that the page before her remained
empty.

His father was already a familiar character,

and the little he knew of his mother had been
reverently communicated to them. But now, in
leading them through the galleries of memory,
he could not truthfully refrain from pointing
out shadows and sadder pictures which hung
there.

They commenced early. He was sent from
home when his father remarried, and had first
seen France, a shivering child of six, under the
care of an old priest who knew nothing of children,
and had neglected him during the whole journey.
Still, he loved France from the first, why he could
hardly say.

It must have been in the little boy a feeling
such as the maiden had when she wished to
kiss the ground at Dieppe,' said Eene, smiling
at Beth.

The little fellow remained in the school at
Paris for eight years, without leaving it even in
vacations, and it was only on the occurrence of
his sister's fatal illness that his father sent for

him to come to Algiers. He went, but reached
home only in time to see his sister lying at rest
among the flowers in her casket ; and to wish,
for a while, that he might lie there too.

His only possible companion seemed gone in
the death of this person, to whom alone, in her
frequent visits to Paris, he had been able to
speak freely. His step-brothers, educated by
their mother to look upon him with envy and
dislike, avoided him ; his stepmother herself
showed a petty spite towards him, and his grief
bit deeper and deeper into his heart. But his
father, looking up from the blow of the loss of
his favourite child, found her little brother in
this sorry condition, and from that time the boy
was never allowed to leave him when they could
possibly be together. Eene had always felt that
his sister's tenderness and his mother's memory
went hand in hand with his father's new solicitude.


Two years passed in the delightful intercourse

of a youthful mind with a man in every
way superior. An ardent passion soon possessed
the boy for his father, who became his world.
Gaiety of spirits bloomed, thought developed,
independence strengthened, as he felt the desire
to make himself an agreeable companion, and a
son of whom his father need not be ashamed.
Meanwhile he disarmed his stepmother's prejudices,
and won his brothers heartily to his
side.

At the end of this time his father thought
it necessary that he should again take up his
studies ; but, unwilling to send him so far away
as Paris, he consigned him to a learned monastery
by the sea, near the family estates, and in the
corner of the Pyrenees which had become so dear
to Eene.

Here he passed a studious thoughtful period,
filled with alternate hours of reading and solitary
wanderings along the shore, filled ^\'ith sombre
romance, in which the atmosphere of renunciation,

the gray thundering ocean, the majestic rocks,
and his wholly introspective life, combined to
accentuate the grave cast of character which
peculiarly distinguished him.

Of women he knew almost nothing. The
memory of his mother and sister had never been
deposed — in fact had never been approached.
In Paris he had seen no women ; in Algeria the
white-garmented and veiled creatures were like
wraiths to him ; and during his vacations his
stepmother and her coterie were so dissimilar to
his tastes that they produced no impression upon
him. Perhaps from the cloistered monks, their
stories and legends, he had learned more of women
than in any other way ; and he had seen none
who could for an instant be compared with the
ideal being whom saintly stories and lonely musings
had formed and almost endowed with life.

On finishing his education his father offered
him the choice of travel or Paris. He declined
both. He wished to be gradually introduced to

that stream of life wliicli had so long: been flo^dnor
past his secluded retreat without his knowing
more of it than its murmur. So he asked his
father to let him go to the town near by to mingle
freely in the society then assembled there.

Permission was readily granted. His father
wished him to marry yoimg, and advised him to
seek a vdh, not alone French, but from the Midi,
who would be his own from the dearest mutual
associations. He told him, however, it behoved
him not to be in haste, but to remember his inexperience,
his responsibilities, and to consult
those wiser than he. Still he appreciated the
uses and delights of a youthful marriage, and
would have been oiad to have his son seek a
similar experience to that which had given him
his own greatest happiness.

Beware of taking a heartless woman, no
matter what her charms. Find a wife like your
blessed mother, and I ask nothing more for you,'
he said, when they parted.

VOL. II. D

Eene immediately set up a bachelor's establishment
in T , and was warmly received in

society, where his name was well known, and his
father's friends many. He was courted sid feted,
and introduced at once to all the eligible maidens
of the country round.

An elderly marchioness, who had been a lifelong
friend of his father's, took him especially
under her care. To her he spoke freely : he told
her that his fixed idea was to find a wife who
should be not so much a society queen as a
womanly woman ; he told her of his hopes and
fears, and explained why he did not seek Paris
instead of this provincial place, which she pressed
him to do. He would have a wider choice there,
she urged, and he should ' see Paris ' before he
settled ; he would be better satisfied then.

But his determination was unshakable ; he had
no desire to know Parisian life ; rather, he wished
to marry young so that he should have no temptation
to ever know it ; and moreover, he wished

his wife to be from soutlierii France, with its
warmth and devotion, and not a frivolous leader
of society.

So the marchioness turned her energies in
another direction, and studied all her young
acquaintances with the eye of a connoisseur, resolved
to find him a suitable wife.

He, meantime, took the matter into his own
hands.

At a ball one night he saw a new face, brilliant
with warm emotions and joyousness of spirits.
She was dancing with a young hussar, and they
made a notable couple. He found on inquiry
that she was the daughter of a rich Spanish merchant,
who had married into a French family
ennobled by the first empire. He was ambitious,
the world said, and resolved that his daughter
should marry at least as high as her mothers
rank. To this all her education had tended.
She was an only child, carefully reared, accomplished,
and beautiful, as he could see. The blood

that ran in her veins was said to make her ambitious
also, and the haughty condescension with
which she was received by her mother's equals
rasped on her unbearably, and it was asserted
that her aim was to compel them to a more conciliatory
position.

In spite of these rumours Eene d'Isten, inter .
rested by her face, and indignant at her undeserved
humiliation, sought an introduction. He was
welcomed with empressement. The father was
flattered, the mother pleased ; the daughter did
not seem to object to his advances. But the
marchioness was seriously alarmed.

She summoned Eene to her, and at the very
first remonstrated strongly. Here was not the
woman to make him a domestic wife, to answer
his devotion with affection, to chain him with
new ties of sweetness to his home and land.
This woman was an intriguer ; she would marry
the highest title, and care little who possessed it.
Well, if she would not, since he defended her

there, her parents would, and he well knew it was
all the same.

Eene d'Isten listened, and said he would consider,
and went to judge critically this woman.
Was she maligned by popular report ? or had
he heard the truth from his good friend the
marchioness ?

He found mother and daughter together. The
mother's delicate blandishments and fascinations
prejudiced him in her favour, while the daughter's
contrasting manner seemed to him more truly
maidenly than anything he had yet seen, and
impressed upon him the assurance that she would
never yield herself to an ambitious marriage, and
would love passionately if once aroused. He
would be the chivalrous knight who would reconcile
parents and child, and rescue the beauteous
damsel from her distressing position. Now the
marchioness could no longer affect him : he had
espoused a cause, and nothing would detach him
from it.

Bref, lie pressed his suit and won the consent
of the parents, who gave it eagerly, and of the
daughter, who showed a shy reserve very attractive
to him. He saw his fiancee only in swift
moments, however, and the mother much more
intimately. She was continually talking of Louise,
praising her deftly ; laying open apparently the
girl's whole life for his reverent inspection, and
he looked at the pages she turned and was content.
The visionary ideal he had formed was
thrown into the background ; reality effaced
imagination, and a happy temperament surrounded
the reality with a glamour of golden
possibilities.

Louise was dignified, reserved, unapproachable :
he thought them all qualities of virgin self-respect.
Her wit, which was tinged with bitterness, he
thought the result of her position, from which she
would soon be freed. Her joyous gaiety disappeared
: he thought it the steadying effect of new
ties upon an earnest nature. When she vouchsafed

him a glance lie thoiiglit its dark tumult
meant a conflict between feeling and maidenly
reticence, and eagerly anticipated the time when
she should give full liberty to a delicious emotion.

Somewhat to his surprise, however, her parents
were the ones to urge a speedy union. It was
now deep into the summer ; the town was almost
deserted. The marchioness, among others, had
gone away a little angry, hoping that before long
Rene would awake from his delusion.

But the future mother-in-law invited M.
d'Isten to their new and magnificent castle amid
the grand scenery of the mountains, just the other
side of the French boundary, and once there they
persuaded him to consent to an immediate marriage.
His father, whom he had wished to have
meet his Jiancee, was absent on important affairs,
and wrote anxious letters ; but when Eene asked
him, as the first favour of his life, to acquiesce
in this consummation of his hopes, he did so,
although reluctantly.

The ceremony was to be performed in the
new and gorgeous chapel. The whole estate was
resplendently illuminated ; the house was thrown
open, and filled with light and flowers from turret
to hall. A vast concourse of persons was invited,
and hastened to come. Eene's step-brothers were
there, but his father and the old marchioness
could not be present, and they were the only two
real friends the bridegroom felt he had.

At last, amid the splendour, the bride appeared.
She was pallid even to grayness ; her
lips were compressed, her eyes glittering. Superbly
dressed, her figure drawn to its haughtiest
height, and her whole bearing that of extreme
effort at self-command, she looked handsomer
than ever before, — and yet she made him shudder
from head to foot.

But it was too late for hesitation.

When they met at the altar it would have
been difficult to say which hand was the coldest,
which self-control the most tense. For his partlie

could remember nothing; of the ceremony,
nothing of responses or oaths.

He saw nothing, heard nothing, until, when
the blessing was pronounced, Louise muttered
low, he knew, yet it could not have deafened him
more had it been shrieked :

God. strike me dead ! '

Eene pushed his chair suddenly aside, and
rose. Bethesda, whose wide eyes had been fixed
on him, dropped them with a shuddering sigh.
Her soul was a sea of pity, which dashed its
spray even over herself.

Mabel looked from one to the other, and then
said slowly :

'' Poor creature ! '"

Yes,' responded Eene, turning towards them,
and leaning on the hioii back of Mrs. Trescott's
chair ; ' I never grieved for any one as I did for
Louise at that moment. I thought of nothing
except that she was in agony, — and that she was
my wife.'

He seated himself again, and continued.

For the rest of the evening each sense was
acutely clear, each nerve strained to do its duty,
in shielding her and himself. For the moment
they were more completely identified than any
other circumstance could have made them.

Her stern self-command did not again leave
her. In spite of the heat, the excitement, and
the merry supper, not the faintest colour tinged
her face ; but, as the hours passed, her eyes
glittered more and more dangerously.

M. d'Isten kept her constantly in sight ; his
watchfulness did not importune, nor did it leave
her. He, too, was discharging his duties with
successful self-mastery. That one instant, flaming
over the past, and lighting the future with a
cruel glare, had taught him more in concealment
than had his whole previous life of twenty-two
years. All the force his nature might possess
was suddenly called into action, and it did not
fail him. The guests who had anticipated, it

may be, a brilliant scandal, as a continuance of
the present entertainment, saw the young husband
already assuming the responsibilities of his
position, and doubted any further amusement.
Had they done otherwise they would have been
disappointed, remarked Eene d'lsten quietly.

It had been a stipulation, made by the parents,
that their only child should not be taken from
them, but that the newly-married couple should,
for a time at least, reside in their home. They
were to return to a suite of apartments provided
for them, after a honeymoon spent at the d'Isten's
chateau, thirty miles away. The next morning
they would leave, escorted half-way by a gay
cavalcade of the marriage guests, but this night
they were to pass where the wedding had taken
place.

M. d'Isten spent it entirely in his wife's antechamber,
either pacing noiselessly from corner to
corner, or standing in the open window. The
room was dark, for nothing must betray their

miserable secret. This was the one point on
which he was resolved.

In his abstraction of fierce thought he at one
time brushed the porters hanging before the
door opening into the room where she was. He
recoiled from the touch : it seemed to poison him.
He leaned far out of the window, to reach the
pure night air. He was still, but every sense
was electrically alive. The slightest sound, or
touch, sent a shock through him as if it had been
from a battery.

In this state he could decide nothing ; but a
tidal wave of irresistible feeling rolled up, and
marked with a deep line the resolve to know all,
and the determination that his name should not
be stained.

The short summer night wore away, and the
dawn came. Birds sang exultingly; trees and
flowers gleamed in the growing light ; a damp
breeze blew over the forest, and refreshed his hot
brain. He longed to be away, amid the everlastingness

of nature. He would have given
much for a ride over the desert, through that
grand monotony which dwarfs and stills human
sufferings.

But the forest and the hills would be something:.
He chanced his clothing:, and went out
from the terrace Window. For hours he wandered
through the morning glades, with nature smiling
in his face, and the birds carolling overhead. His
electric susceptibility decreased here, where all
was the same as for years and years. A forest
could not be made, or destroyed, in a day, an
hour, an instant. How long had it taken her to
speak those words ? He wondered over it, in a
curiously minute calculation, which absorbed his
whole mind. Presently he roused himself with
a start. Anything was better than this idiocy,
this appalling weakness. He must have presence
of mind.

He remained in the forest until the fiery spell,
which alternated with this apathy, was quenched,

and he knew he could depend upon his mind.
In a few hours he would be alone with his wife ;
then all should be explained. No decision could
be made until facts were clearly known.

He returned to the house. Numerous domestics
were stirring lazily. He contrived to elude
them all, and to return by the terrace without
being seen. He performed a scrupulous toilette,
for appearances were now everything. Then he
forced himself to read, and understand, a book on
some scientific question in which he had been
interested, until the morning was far advanced.

A valet came and knocked loudly. M. d'Isten
dismissed him, and then tapped on his wife's door.

It opened almost immediately. Madame
d'Isten, dressed for her journey, stood before
him. She met his grave eyes with a glance of
defiance and curiosity combined ; he read her
shrewdly now. He asked if he might speak
with her, and she gave a silent acquiescence,
sending away her maid by a gesture.

He entered the room with a firm step, and
took the seat to which she motioned him. Each
instant she shot inquiring glances at him, her
defiance gradually disappearing, and her curiosity
replaced by something like fear. He did not
wish this.

Madame he said, ' you consented to Become
my wife. You wear my name. We are married.
Whatever may seem strange to you or me we must
conceal from the world. This is due to your
dignity and mine, and to the name we both now
bear. I trust you agree with me ? '

Certainly,' was the laconic response.

Every incident will take place as expected
by your guests. Women understand dissimulation
; it is not necessary to say more. Shall I
take you to the breakfast-room, madame V

She was somewhat confused. The sullen look
which had gathered on her face while he spoke
was broken by conflicting sentiments.

He awaited her pleasure. It was desirable

that her confidences should be postponed until
they were alone ; but, if she chose, it should be
now.

After a moment she rose with an energy
which threw down her chair. M. d'Isten picked
it up in silence. He opened the doors for her to
pass, and, when they reached the gallery, gave
her his arm. They were immediately joined by
a gay bevy, and did not see each other again
alone until they arrived at his chateau — the
place selected for the bringing home of his
beautiful bride, and the fondly-anticipated honeymoon.


Little by little, only by the utmost tact and
timing of her moods was the confidence he had
determined upon securing, given him. He
studied her 'with care. Nothing escaped him ;
no trait was manifested that did not print itself
on his mind with painful distinctness. She took
it for granted that he had learned — how she
could not guess, not knowing she had spoken

aloud in that supreme moment — her secret, and,
won by the sympathy which he sincerely gave
her, relieved herself in an impetuous outpouring.
Through it he discovered what she supposed he
already knew.

It was a story bitterly common he knew now;
then it seemed to him terribly strange.

She had met and loved a sub officer stationed
in the town where she was at school. They
bribed the woman who walked out with the class
to connive at their clandestine meetings, and had
sworn undying fidelity. In parting she had
promised to use all her influence to vdn her
parents' consent to their marriage. She returned
to her home, and was immediately surrounded
by adulation, and her parents' ambitious intrigues.
They refused her request with scorn, and pricked
her pride to a greater aim. She wrote her lover,
presently, that he must win her by making a
name ; and he, in return, reproached her for her
lack of affection, but assured her that, if she

VOL. II. E

would but wait, lie would make a name lie need
not be ashamed to accept.

During the year which ensued she refused
many good offers, and won the name of a person
who could only be secured at a high price, while
she was, she affirmed, only keeping faith with a
man whose patent of nobility was love.

Then Monsieur le Comte d'Isten, heir to the
title of Marquis, appeared. His name and position,
she acknowledged, were not without their
effect upon her. In fact, her ambition, her
pride, her desire for power, had been powerful
advocates of his cause. Her love, however,
struggled rebelliously under the weight of alien
thoughts, and would have conquered had not its
death-blow been dealt, and her better nature
ruined, by her mother's machinations. She told
her daughter that her lover had deserted her and
was betrothed to another woman.

And she believed it V exclaimed Bethesda.

She did. Had she not, I think she would

have refused my titles. She loved him well
enough for that.'

But not well enough to believe in him,
murmured the girl involuntarily.

No answered Eene gravely ; ' few women
have the capacity to love another better than
themselves. Louise is not one of the few ; she
has many sisters in character.'

There was a pause. Bethesda did not speak
again. M. d'Isten went on.

Despair and rage made the deceived woman
willing to submit to her parents' urging of a
speedy marriage. She would be married first.
The traitor's hould see that she was not to be left
thus scornfully to break her heart unconsoled.

But on the very evening of their marriage,
when she was already dressed for the ceremony,
a letter had been secretly handed to her, and
the lover explained, in the agonised language of
truth, that he was not unfaithful ; that the story
of his new betrothment was a fable of her

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

mother's ; that lie had been promoted, and transferred
to a regiment which would be quartered in
the town of S ; and that he was then awaiting
her in the park, ready to rescue her from the
ignominy of this marriage, and replace it by one
where her love, at least, would support her; if
she slipped from the house, if only for a moment,
he would save her at the cost of his life, and
even hers. It was better that she should die
than sell her soul.

She suffered tortures while the few moments
lingered during which she could have gained her
freedom and saved the happiness of at least three
lives.

But they passed unimproved. She was still
convulsed in the throes of alternate ambition and
love when her solitude was invaded and the
crisis was over. She must now become Madame
la Comtesse d'Isten. She bent to her destiny,
which brought her a title and married freedom,
and her wretched new life began.

She was never for an instant content. Her
satisfied ambition left lier defenceless before the
onslaughts of her outraged love. The honeymoon
passed in torrents of tears and convulsions
of remorse. Always for herself and her lover.
The thought of her husband never occurred to
her except as an object of interference. He
recognised it, and kept himself strictly in the
background.

The one thing, meantime, which she commanded,
beseeched, implored, was that her husband
should let her live in the city where she
could see him pass ; where, at the theatre, their
eyes might meet ; where she could know whether
he was dead or alive ; and then she swore by her
religion, by her love itself, that she would remember
whose wife she was, and that her husband
should never have cause to complain

M. d'Isten took time to consider. He understood
the character with which he had to deal,
and he deliberately marked out the hard lines of

his changed life. He would let her have her
will, and would do everything in his power, by
patience and kindness, so long as she kept her
word, to win his wife's affection, if not her love.

So he consented to her desires. When, in the
long years that followed, she would spring from
her chair and rush to the window at the sound
of a horse's hoofs and a sabre, he would fix his
eyes on the opposite wall and never stir. When,
at the theatre, she blushed and her face was
stirred by emotion, he would never seek the
place where she had looked, but rather let his
eyes fall that he might not see too much. Even
when she would throw herself on his neck and
pour out her sorrow and her undying regret for

he would stop her with tender firmness,

and insist that she should never mention that
name.

With a kindness he tried to make invariable
with constant study, and a yearning she never
suspected, he endeavoured to win the affection

which was still hers to give. His attentions
were those of a yet unaccepted suitor. In noway
click he exercise any marital authority except
one : he made her understand that the instant
anything occurred to compromise his honour he
would put her away. She had not failed. Once,
in a fit of desperation, she was about to leave
him, but the flight was prevented ; she knew not
how. She never dreamed that he knew it, but
there was nothing she did which he did not
know. He had his honour to guard, and it had
not been betrayed.

For four years he devoted himself to nothing
but his wife, and for success he was granted the
knowledge that at any time she would have
inwardly rejoiced at his death, and that she
found life so unendurable that she had often
threatened to kill herself, and he had even taken
a pistol from her hand when he had once unexpectedly
returned to her side.

Such was the domesticity marriage had

brought him ; the home which had taken the
place of his glowing visions ; the reality that
had usurped his ideals.

At the end of four years every expedient had
been tried which a hearty will could suggest.
All had ignominiously failed. There only remained
now to change all the circumstances and
influences around them, and see what would
ensue.

Eene went to pay a long-delayed visit to his
father. The years since his marriage had been
intensely reserved, self-reliant years. Everything
had been done from himself; no one was
his confidant or counsellor. He had not been
away from Louise except for the few bloody
weeks of the war; but now he made a long visit
to his beloved parent.

He then expressed to him his desire to choose
a vocation which should actively employ him,
and signified his willingness to follow his father's
advice. The marquis was overjoyed, and immediately

obtained for his son a position under
one of the finest statesmen in France ; a confidential
position, which he hoped would lead to
the highest honours.

When this was arranged Eeue d'Isten returned
to his wife, and asked her to accompany him to
Paris. She refused, with a torrent of passion.
He then quietly forced her to see the life she
was compelling him to lead, and the misery to
which she was subjecting herself. He acquainted
her with his resolve to try a change. He had
submitted to her wishes in large and small things,
only to increase their mutual unhappiness. She
must, in this instance, submit to him. He was
going where his duties called him; she should
accompany him. Once in Paris he would do all
in his power to help her to find pleasure or relief
from ennui; but to Paris she must go.

Of course she did so ultimately, but she
apparently exhausted herself in finding the
means to render the preparations and the

journey disagreeable. In Paris her days were
spent in weeping or tempests of anger, her only
aim being to make it so trying to her husband
that he would perforce let her return home.

He meantime kept his promise in providing
her with every distraction, but his manner had
changed from what it had been. He was no
longer the suitor, but the husband. He wished
to make a complete alteration in their lives, and
allow his will to become active where it had been
so long passive. But no change could fulfil his
hope of winning her affection, and, after six
months of unceasing struggle he escorted her
back to her parents, and returned to Paris alone.

Our lives now flow in the separate channels
she has made,' he said, • ' and they probably will
to the end. I do all I can for her. I write
often ; I visit her frequently ; she is not cramped
or coerced in any way but the one : since she
wears my name it must be blamelessly. I have
tried to be a good husband.'

You are an ideal husband,' exclaimed isabel,
the tears again standing in her eyes. ^ I cannot
imagine one more self-abneo-atino^ or noble. Tell
Beth the last. You must not forget your crowning
sacrifice. Tell her why you went to Eome.'

I should not easily forget my going there,
since it brought what has proved to be the
happiest period of my life. I went to Eome to
see a French General, then on a mission there.
The man Louise loved had been ordered to be
exchanged into an Algerian regiment. He had
made a serious mistake — disobedience it was
called — and the punishment was temporary exile.
Louise was distracted with grief at the prospect,
and beseeched me to use my influence in his
behalf It was not easy for me to do, but I
undertook it. It might be a providential chance
for her affection. If this would not win her,
nothing could. I went to Eome, and remained
there some time, as you know. When I had
gained the favour I heard from Louise. My

efforts made no impression on her, except, indeed,
that she "upbraided me for lack of zeal in
being so slow. That severed the last link which
bound my hopes to her. It became of small
consequence whether she liked or disliked me,
and I felt freed from a nightmare of ignominy to
be dependant no longer. The man understood
my position better. He wrote to me, and I need
fear him no more. Then I came to Florence and
met you.'

He looked full at Bethesda with an indescribable
expression of gratitude. Her eyes were
wide with pain, her cheeks were flushed, her hair
pushed back as it had been from an unconscious
gesture of distress. She had been leaning forward
in a listening intentness, but now she rose.

For an instant she lingered by Eene's chair.
He felt her brooding over him with a tenderness
of overwhelming pity.

My pool of Bethesda,' he said, in a very low
tone.

An irradiation as of white light crossed her
features. It flashed and disappeared, and she
went quickly away.

Eene d'Isten always held that he had seen the
gleam of an angel's wing reflected in her face.

In Godhead rise, thither flow back
All loves, wliicli, as they keep or lack,
In their return, the course assigned
Are virtue or sin.' Coventry Patmore.

The light and darkness in our chaos joined,
What shall divide ? The God within the mind.' —-pope.

The change this culminating confidence made in
the mutual relations of all three was unmistakable
; and yet, to an outsider, it might have
seemed to have had no effect. It was only a
question of delight when Bethesda and Rene were
together ; when they were apart doubts came.

Rene felt deeply that the sorrows of his life
were being compensated. His fate had been
accepted when it was hardest ; now, when it was
rendered brilliant and beautiful by the glad devotion
of a pure heart, he put from him all

thought oi regret. This impotent emotion,
indeed, experience had long since taught him
to look upon as deplorable weakness, and he
was not going to be weak, — no, far from it. He
would be unlike other men.

This was what whetted his resolution not tolet
his heart gain ascendency over his head,
which he was very well aware was the tendency
of such close sympathy as now subsisted between
himself and Bethesda. He had no doubt of his
power to control himself. His life had taught
him to crush all buds of passion before they
were large enough to enervate his strength, and
he thought he could trust himself without any
danger in the society of this woman who each
hour made him feel more blessed.

In looking' back he could hardly believe his
fate had been at last so kind to him. Lono- ao'o
he had been forced to relinquish the thought of
seeing his ideal realised. Not alone his unfortunate
marriage, but also his contact with a

frivolous and desecrated society, had made such
visions seem baseless and impossible. He had
never lost sight of his dreams ; in fact, his marriage,
in throwing him back on himself so completely
as it had done, restored them with only
more radiant colouring ; but he had learned to
regard them as poetic fancies, not to be found
living and treading the pathways of this world.
Then, in the midst of his shattered anticipations,
which he regarded with resignation ; in the midst
of a society he despised ; in the most barren
period of his life, appeared his vision, incarnate,
and he was allowed to enter her intimacy.

He was the first ; the first who had been able
to sway her ; the first that had conquered her
from herself; the first who had known how to
cross the mystic stream about her impregnable
castle and claim a welcome from its regal inmate.

And Bethesda, meantime, had not an even
dim conception of where she was being led.
While Eene was fortifying himself, realising at

least some what of the strength of the test he
was undergoing, Bethesda had not dreamed of
there being any test. She knew, of comes, that
such union of minds as this might become, would
probably, in other circumstances, mean union of
hearts as well. ' But,' she thought, quite simply,
'the possibility of this with us is precluded;'
never thinking; that circumstances are like straw,
to be burned by passion or whirled away by the
wind of free-will.

Her life, however, was now a turmoil. The
fires beneath were making the straw crackle, and
hot springs bubble up through the cool waters of
innocence and purity. She would kneel in the
window till her brain refused longer to think,
and she threw herself on the bed, to awaken late
in the morning with a jubilant sense that the
hour drew near when she should again see Eene,
and all questioning would be at rest ; at least
until she was again delivered to the solitary
midnight battle.

VOL. IT. F

And Mrs. Trescott thought that it might be a
second Dante and Beatrice, and still half reluctantly
consented. The two did not meet except
in Mabel's presence ; but with the unveiling of
the secret which had separated them like a phantom
during all their previous intercourse, the
most complete confidence was established. Truly
Eene told Bethesda all. Each minute circumstance
that he could describe, every unimportant
incident, found a listening ear, an unbounded
sympathy, and a proper place in the annals of
his life. This was the excuse which accounted
for the transference of absolute knowledge from
him to her, not alone of circumstances and intentions,
but faults and penitent confessions. She
became quite literally his conscience.

It has been well said that we expect one
faculty to do the work of another in mental and
moral life. Especially in regard to the functions
of reason and conscience do we make this mistake.
The conscience ' is not alone expected to

enforce doing what is right, but to decide what
the right is.' Now this was precisely* Bethesda's
fault. She looked to her conscience as the leader
of morality — its judge instead of its executor.
She referred her daily life, and the lives of those
with whom she came in contact, to her conscience
instead of her reason. The latter was
utterly untaught. Mrs. Trescott had in many
ways a high disdain for pure reason, and was
apt to apply the term ' reasonable ' to anything
she wished to do, and the term ' unreasonable '
to that which any one else wished to do in conflict
with her desires.

But fortunately reason does not consist of this
fluctuating quantity. It is the one absolute
principle which thrones itself above all others,
and judges with accurate impartiality. It is
this which condemns our dearest desires, and
makes us trample them under foot to reach to
the footstool of majestic virtue. It is this to
which we must cleave with our utmost tenacity,

and an ever-exercised strength, if we would not
slip into ignorance, superstition, and error. Conscience
is but its servant and ' ready sentinel.'
It enforces what has been commanded, and reads
the decree of reward and punishment, Bethesda
was trying to make it do its supreme lord's work,
and, of course, she signally failed.

Eene d' 1st en had, if possible, still less apprehension
of this high king, except as a recognised
authority corroborated his decisions. He had
been educated in the Woman Catholic Church,
which is the destroyer of personal intercourse
between reason and humanity, and the dictator
of uncomprehending obedience. Eene d'Isten's
nature was, moreover, peculiarly obedient. Whereever
he gave confidence he gave obedience — to
the Church, to France, to his father, and now
to Bethesda.

She was learning rapidly that what she said
he did, what she suggested he executed, what
she affirmed he believed. It was a terrible responsibility.

Her conscience, weakened by a
tacit disobedience, and without any strength of
reason behind it, faltered more and more often
under the double burden. But this was only in
the hours when she was solitary and despondent.
Her conscience was strong; enough to execute
what her reason knew to be right one step
ahead; but she wished to see the whole road,
and where it led, before she went against the
rock that seemed to bar her path — the rock of
an entire relinquishment of Eene and the consequences
of such a step to him.

When she was with him, however, they
mutually felt the support of good intentions,
and the self-control they constantly practised.
The difference between them lay in this : when
Eene was away from Bethesda he was planning
how he could advance and not have it seem wrong
to her ; when she was away from him she was
trying to brace herself to the effort of receding
step by step, so that Eene should not *feel hurt.'

Her forces were divided ; his, firm to one
purpose. Need it be said that he always won ?

One of his last steps was this :

They were talking about the correspondence.
The steamer tickets had been bought that day,
and it made the time of separation seem very
near. Eene was planning, in his usual orderly
way, how often, and on what days, he would
write.

I shall be exactly regular he said. ' Twice
a week I shall send you letters. If they do not
arrive, you may know the steamer is late.'

What a devoted correspondent I shall have !'
exclaimed Mabel. ' I must admit, I am glad the
necessity of answering will not lie all on me.'

Eene made some light reproach, but immediately
relapsed into his former preoccupation.
Without a word having been said between him
and Bethesda on the subject in his mind, he knew
they were thoroughly of accord. Her petite mine
melancJiolique, which always fascinated Eene,

was deepened this evening into actual sadness ;
for there hung over her the shadow of a speedy
departure from Europe, and, more than all
Europe, as she dimly realised, from her mind's
companion.

There was a little silence, then Mabel exclaimed
:

Well, what is it, Eene ? You look as if you
were pondering about a conspiracy.'

Not a conspiracy,' was the quick reply, ' for
you are in it; and you, we well know, would
never be in a conspiracy. But, if you will allow
me, Madame Gabelle, I will tell you what I was
thinking.'

'Out with it!' she cried. 'Of course you
want something. I know your clever ways, and
your cajoling " Madame Gabelle !" '

She imitated him quite successfully, and there
was some merry laughter before Eene resumed :

I was querying whether it would not be
better for me to address you one letter, and

mademoiselle the second. It might be better
understood

He waited to see the effect of this hint on a
delicate subject before proceeding further. This
matter, and one other, were the only remaining
points to be gained ; then the affair would be
between him and Esda, and therefore absolutely
safe. He watched Mrs. Trescott with a veiled
intentness, remarking with satisfaction that
Bethesda had assumed the same attitude.

Mabel, however skilfully the question had
been insinuated, felt its importance ; but her
energetic opposition was sapped by that last
sentence. What, indeed, would they think at
home 1 Her impetuous refusal was checked on
her very lips.

She glanced somewhat helplessly from one to
the other of her companions. Beth could not
resist this appeal. At the very moment that
Mabel faltered : ' I don't know — I don't like it —
but ' Beth exclaimed :

The letters are to be half for me in any case,
auntie, and if it is to make questions, I would
much prefer being open and frank about it. You
would too, auntie. You always say so.'

Yes, but then ' She stopped again, her

usual ready flow of speech checked by this misery
of public opinion.

'You are, of course, to do entirely as you
judge best, madame,' said Eene gently. ' It
rests with you to decide. But I should think

if you both received letters ' He paused

judiciously.

Well, well ! ' exclaimed Mabel in some impatience.
'Do as you choose. After all, that
is the frank way, and I hate nothing so much as
concealment.'

Eene, having gained his point, now exerted
himself to lead conversation and thoughts away
from it, and it was not until the next evening
that his final attack beofan.

It was introduced by Mrs. Trescott herself.

I have been thinking, Rene lie said, at a
time when Bethesda was busied at the other side
of the room, ' about the correspondence between
you and Beth. It is right enough that she
should receive her letters openly. It would be
wrong for her to receive them at all if that were
not the case ; but of course the letters are all to
be seen by me.'

That is for your niece to say, madame ; not
me. I would not dream of dictating her actions
in however slight a matter.'

*Beth, come here !' called Mrs. Trescott rather
sharply. ' I must have this affair well understood.
In your correspondence with Rene I
shall expect to see all the letters. I cannot
permit it otherwise. You understand ? '

The tone was aggressive and harsh. Bethesda
would always have fired at it, now she sprang
into defiance.

I have always been in the habit of showing
you my letters, Aunt Mabel, but it has been entirely

at my own option, and I decline to allow
it now to be compelled.'

Then I refuse to let you two correspond ! '

Eene took up a book from the table, and, ashe
did so, just perceptibly brushed Bethesda's
hand. The touch recalled her lessons in tact and
self-control. She steadied herself, both physically
and mentally; she stepped back to an inward
support before she lifted her eyes to her aunt's
face, and said calmly :

'Why, Aunt Mabel?'

Because this is a dangerous affair,' burst out
Mabel ; ' because your only safeguard, to either
and both of you, is to have no secrecy ; because
gunpowder is most dangerous when it is confined,
and the only way for you to be saved from imminent
peril is to have everything open ; otherwise
you will be compromised, otherwise '

Bethesda laid her hand closely over Mabel's
nervous fingers, and said in a voice of concentrated
dignity :

Pray, don't speak so. I never refused to let
you see my letters ; I only refused to be coerced.
There is no call for me to change a lifelong habit
now.'

Then it is understood that there will be no
letters pass between you which I shall not read V

Mabel looked with still fiery eyes from one to
the other, as they stood side by side. Eene
waited for Bethesda to speak, and she replied ina
firm voice :

Understood as it always has been ; no more.'

Madame,' said Eene, leaning forward, ' I am
sure you understand that no letter I would write
to Bethesda could she object to have you see ;
but pray remember, dear madame, that our
compact is singular ; and that between two
writers, between Bethesda and Bethesda, there
might be much written which you would not
care to see.'

It isn't the caring I think about exclaimed
Mabel, speaking no longer sharply ; ' you know I

don't speak from that motive. It is only my
desire to save you two from the greatest danger!
She underlined these words with the full weight
of her emphatic voice. ^ The very fact of knowing
your letters are to be seen by a third person
will probably avert it. You need to take every
precaution, I tell you. The risks of your position
cannot be exaggerated.'

^ You are quite right, no doubt, madame,' said
Eene gravely. ' It might be a dangerous position
for many. For us, with you to advise, its danger
can be easily avoided.'

Bethesda moved a little away. He felt that
his secure words reassured her, even to herself.

See,' he continued, ' we will do this, will we
not, Bethesda \ Madame Gabelle shall rest
assured that, when you return to America, she
shall see all the letters I send you ; and she
shall agree — yes, madame? — that our Bethesda
pages shall be ours alone, even as they are
here.'

Until they are published added Beth innocently.


To this Mabel finally consented.

^I don't feel as if I ought she said; 'but I
trust you two so completely, that you can do
anything with me. I never did have a firm
nature. I could always be coaxed out of anything
not really wrong.'

The next morning, however, Mabel went to
Beth's room early, with a very sober countenance.

Beth,' she said, plunging in medias res, ' I
have been thinking nearly all night, and I want
you to go to London.'

Bethesda was about to exclaim, but restrained
herself. Mabel went on :

You see, matters between you and Kene are
maturing fast. It is some time yet before we
sail. I can't see where this will end and neither
can you. If you go away now, nothing further
can happen. Evra will be delighted beyond
measure to see you ; I will stay here and finish

our shopping, and you will relieve me of great
anxiety.'

What has made you so suddenly wish this,
Aunt Mabel?' asked Bethesda, in a reticent tone.

Because every hour makes me more anxious.
I am afraid you two are walking into what you
don't know. I am sure he already loves you,
Beth, and you may, if you stay, love him.'

Bethesda did not start nor speak, but her face
faded slowly to a bloodless gray.

I am afraid, my dear, dear little girl, I am
afraid that you are sowing seeds of misery for
your whole life. How can I ever forgive myself
if your young and lovely and promising life
should be blasted in its bud, and through my
agency ? It is a terrible risk to run ; terrible forme
as well as you, darling. Do go away while
the harm is yet undone.'

You think he loves me,' said Bethesda, in an
intensely suppressed tone. ' Why do you ?'

Everything shows it, dear ; all his actions, all

his words, all his looks. I don't think it will
harm him, or be anything but happiness to him.
He has nothing to lose, and everything to gain.
But you, dearie, you have all to lose, and nothing
to gain. It would break my heart if you should
be unhappy.'

I shall not be ; don't fear for me, auntie.
But do you suppose you are surely right "? Do
you think he recognises it himself?'

^ He may, and he may not ; I can't say. Oh,
if he were only unmarried, how happy I should
be to do everything to favour this ! You are
made for one another; it would have been a
perfect '

^ Hush, auntie, please,' said Bethesda, in a
tone of unendurable pain.

Now, perhaps it will be hard for you to marry,
my darling.'

Bethesda tried to recover herself.

I probably never would have married,' she
said.

She moved away the length of the room, and
then turned with a sudden flash in her eyes :

Aunt Mabel, I can't believe in this supposition
of yours ! You have mistaken him, as you
have me.'

I how he loves you, Beth, and you may love
him. Do go to London, dear.'

There is no necessity for it, at least not with
me. I still think you may be mistaken in him
as well.'

If he should swear he did not love you, I
would know better ! I have not lived as long as
I have for nothing. But his loving you I don't
mind. He is honourable, and worthy of the confidence
I place in him. It undoubtedly makes
him happier ; he shows it in every fibre of body
and mind. But you, darling, are growing thin
and tired - looking. Your sympathies are too
strongly excited, and this emotional atmosphere
is bad for you. It will be a rest to you to go
away.'

VOL. II. G

To Evra ? She would kill me ! ' cried Betli
involuntarily. . ' Besides, there isn't any need,
auntie. If you are only afraid for me, and think
the joy will outweigh the pain for him, why, I
will certainly stay. I can assure you there is no
need of doing otherwise on my account.'

It would relieve me immensely if you would
go away.'

You need not be anxious about me ; but, to
make you quite easy, I will say this : If I feel the
necessity of going to London, I will do so without
your asking me.'

That is a promise. Well, that does relieve
me, for I know you are only anxious to do right ;
and I am glad for you to have all the pleasure
you can, and not take pain with it.'

Mrs. Trescott left her then, but all day, through
dressmakers' chatter and clerks' prices and praises,
the conflicting thoughts Mabel had brought
uppermost in her mind haunted Bethesda like
double and confusing shadows. What one would

say, the other would contradict ; what one
would insist upon as the absolute necessity, the
other would assert to be needless and silly.

She looked forward to the luncheon-table to
decide the question. Then she would see him,
and each minute action should be scrutinised. If
he loved her, she ought to go away. Ought she ?
Why not leave it to him, since it was his happiness
or unhappiness which was concerned ? To
herself, she did not lend a thought. Even when
her aunt had pressed it home she had hardly
thought of herself. That it would, of course, be
happier for her to stay she never doubted. The
only question was : Would it be right to him ?

Before entering the luncheon-room she stopped
to lay aside her things, and caught sight of her
face in the glass. Its pallor and fatigue startled
her ; there were great rings around her eyes,
which seemed burning; in their sockets. The
fanciful notion came to her that they were like
inverted torches, with ashes thick about them.

She smiled at the fantastic idea, rubbed her
cheeks hard to rouse a little colour, and joined
her aunt.

M. d'Isten was not there. She remembered,
now, that he had mentioned having an engagement
at this time with one of the ministers. She
felt cold, and lonely, and dispirited. The prolonged
suspense seemed more than she could
bear. If she could have been set down in
London that minute she believed she would, just
from weariness. But it was impossible for her to
decide if it were necessary for her to leave ; and,
if not necessary, why bring the pain sooner than
must be ?

She went upstairs and found on the table a
cluster of moss roses, the stems held together by
a ring Bene had taken to have made smaller for
her. It was the one he had selected, and which
her aunt had given her on her last birthday.

The glowing ruby clasping the words, ' Let
not grass grow on the path of friendship,' seemed

a direct answer to her doubts. It made lier glad
and liglit-liearted, and, putting it on lier finger,
she closed her hand softly over it, and so holding
it on the sofa a while later, she fell asleep.

Just before she awoke a dream came to her,
short and vivid.

She went do^ii, she dreamed, nth a stocked
ship in mid ocean, but rising, caught the side of a
raft, and was in comparative safety. Then the
raft beo:an to crumble : the waves broke over her
more and more. Suddenly a woman was tossed
near, and tried to catch the spar, too small,
Bethesda knew, to save more than one. At
first she did not aid the woman, but allowed her
to have the same chance she herself had had ;
then, with a nobler impulse, stretched out her
hand to assist her. The drowning creature
grasped it convulsively, and, in a moment, shared
her frail support.

But where had she seen that face 1 It
fascinated her ; she forgot everything in trying

to solve the mystery. The woman meantime,
realising the raft could not save them both, and
seeing Bethesda absorbed, gave her a sudden
shove into the foaming waves. And Bethesda,
her mind now keenly clear, exclaimed : Louise !
She sank down, down into the green water,
and the woman's face, bent over the edge of the
raft, followed her with wide-distended eyes. ' He
will hate me, hate me ! ' she cried despairingly ;
and Bethesda, still sinking, awoke.

Love in tliy heart like living waters rose,
Thine own see lost in the abounclincr flood :
So that with thee, joy, comfort, thy life's good,
Thy youth's delight, thy beauty's freshest rose,
Were trash, thy regretful bounty chose
Before loved feet, for softness, to be strewed.'

W. C. Roscoe.

The evening came and passed ; the dreaded
meeting was over, and her worries had slipped
from her, leaving her light and glad. Why
worry about him ? she asked herself. Women
take so much upon themselves ; they feel the
weight of the universe, of every man who likes
them, upon their shoulders ! ' They never seem
to remember,' she exclaimed half aloud, her
head defiantly poised, ' that men are also reasonable
beings, quite able to take care of themselves,

— probably much better than we could
take care of them at our best. Leave each his
independence of action, men as well as women ;
let them decide what is right for them, without
question from us, and we the same. If we
carry our own trials worthily it is as much as
we are able to do — often more ! '

She worried all night, however, in spite of
her defiant words, and at last resolved upon
speaking to Eene herself frankly, and asking him
to be strong with her in combating any equivocal
tendencies they might feel growing upon
them. So she wrote him a note, asking him to
come to the parlour a moment. He answered
immediately in person, looking very grave, but
with the greatest consideration in his manner.

Mrs. Trescott had already gone out, and it
was the first time the two had met alone. He was
well aware that it could only be because of something
Bethesda considered gravely important that
she would have asked him to come to her.

As he entered lie took in the situation at
once. She was dressed for the street, and her
hat lay upon the table. He saw that she was
similarly prepared to leave him, unless he could
set her anxieties at rest.

She was standing, and thanked him for
coming so quickly in a low, steady voice, which
made him seat himself in the chair to which she
motioned him, ready to face the worst.

There was a little pause, during which her
hands clasped one another closely, but in a
moment she lifted her eyes and met his bravely.

I asked you to come here,' she said, ' because
I feel that we have not been doing cj^uite right
of late. I trust to you to understand me. I
wished to ask you to help me in never doing
anything which you could not repeat to your
wife without embarrassment.'

She stopped, and her breath came somewhat
fast, but he did not keep her in suspense.

'You know that whatever you wish is a

command for me lie said earnestly. ' I shall
do as you desire to the utmost of my power.'

^ Thanks she said, with a glance from clear
eyes which already repaid him for any sacrifice.
^ I was sure you would. Auntie wished me to goto
London, but I thought we could stay together
the short time that remained.'

'Yes he replied, not looking up now; ewe
will be strong. It must be. We cannot help
that ; we must only strive to be strong.'

She did not understand all his meaning, but
she knew that her heart was crying out : Noble,
noble Eene ! She had more confidence in him
than in herself. He was strong, and had the
habit of many self - controlled years upon him.
But when she saw him sad, his only opportunity
for abandon cut ofi" — what should she do then ?

Her eyes flashed to his face. It impressed her
profoundly. ' I will follow his example ! ' she cried
to herself; ' I will be brave, and pure, as he is.'

'Monsieur,' she said suddenly. 'Will you

tell your wife openly of our compact and our
friendship ? She should know it all.'

He hesitated just an instant ; then he said
gravely :

'Since you think it best, I will."

Ah, that takes a weight from one's heart ! '
she cried.

She held out her hand to him with a frank
gesture of gratitude, rising as she did so.

He also rose, and took her palm in his.

Do not fear, Bethesda,' he said ; ' we will be
strong.'

He turned, bowed profoundly, and left her ;
and she walked away to the window, her hands
pressed to her heart, which was in strange confusion,
while her soul was relieved and thankful.

Would she aid his \dfe, now, to ascend the
breaking; raft ? Yes : she believed she would.
She could only try to make herself worthy of
him by all unselfish actions.

The following day was Sunday, and an

atmosphere of peace seemed to brood over
Betliesda, strangely sweet after the turmoil of
the last days. She knew, too, whence it came.
The effort in the right direction brought its own
reward. A feeling of righteousness strengthened
her to the fulfilment of her resolve ; and her
intercourse with Eene, chastened yet constant,
retained all its delight, without the sting of
possible wrong.

She won the others to her own feelings also.
Mrs. Trescott, to whom the interview and its
results had been fully confided, felt almost as
much relieved as Bethesda. She thought the
earnest resolve of two such natures could not
be without good effect. And Eene, strongly
influenced by Bethesda's dignified, yet touching
appeal, did as she had bidden him, and at least
followed where she led.

So to-day, spirit really seemed to be overcoming
the laws of nature, and the boon of
peace descended upon them.

The hours winged their way slowly by,
fragrant as the June breeze : still as a floating
In the morning they went across the
river to church, and, in the midst of holy
pictures, with the Gothic arches clasping hands
in prayer above them, they listened to High
Mass. The intervals were mellowed by organs
answering one another in rich harmony, that
broadened and uplifted their thoughts ; and,
near by, the cooing of a happy child was the
sweetest of all the sounds.

Towards the end of the service the baby
stretched out its arms to Bethesda, and demanded
imperiously to go to her. She was not
loath, and, once in her arms, the child became
instantly quieted by looking at her. She seemed
to appeal to the little one's affection, too, for
presently it put a chubby hand softly on her
cheek. Bethesda caught the fingers to her lips
and pressed the tiny body close with a thrill of
irrepressible feeling. Involuntarily she glanced

at Rene ; he was watching her with curious and
pitying eyes. He knew, and she knew — then — that
she wouki never hold thus a chili of her own.

As they came out she turned from the church
reluctantly.

I never passed a happier hour,' she said,
and it is our last church going.'

The next week they had planned to go to
Versailles, and the next — to think of it ! — they
would have left Paris.

But this tranquillity was only the trembling
stillness of a spring when full to the brim, just
ready to overflow, either to sink into the ground
or to go streaming down the hills. The next
day little signs and words were like the first
trickling drops ; the day after Bethesda was
in the same perplexity, the same half blind
struggle for light and knowledge.

The same, and yet not the same ; for the
appeal she had made and which had been answered,
she was sure, in the same earnestness of

spirit that she had asked it, made her lean with
fuller reliance on the strength she had proved in
Eene. She knew herself strong enough to go away,
to do anything she could positively see to be right ;
and she never doubted but that he was conscious
of the same power of self-sacrifice to duty. How
could she doubt him when every event of his
life had evidenced his rectitude and nobility ? So
at last she concluded to ask him to tell her what
to do. He could see, probably, further than she ;
he knew himself even better, and whatever he
said would surely be right.

She wrote a short note asking him if she
should go to London, and gave it to him when
they met. She did not mean to be underhand,
but it would be easier for her to wait until she
knew his decision before she told her aunt. If he
said go, it would of course be instantly known ;
if he said stay, it would be the same as if she
had not written, and the subject was one on which
she was glad to avoid unnecessary agitation.

The evening passed with no disturbing
elements. Eene could not read the note until
lie had bidden them goodnight, but he
was conscious of its presence, and suspected
what it contained. There was a perturbation
in the girl's manner, an almost pleading-look
in her eyes, which he interpreted aright.
But he was exceedingly careful not to frighten
her. An incessantly controlled tenderness, a
surety of himself, quieted her on whichever side
of her question she looked. Her confidence grew
as the evening proceeded. He would not send
her away ; of course not ; it was foolish in her
to think of it.

But, once in her room alone, with the charm of
his presence gone, and the heavens looking at her
in their calm scrutiny, she was no longer so sure.

She could not say then, or at any future time,
why it was that whenever she left Bene and
entered her own room her first impulse was
to throw herself on to her knees. There she would

remain for hours. A few times dawn surprised
lier still kneeling, still dressed. Once or twice
she slept, her head pillowed on her folded arms.

But to-night the eagerness to know, or at
least to surmise, what Eene would say, drove
her up and down the room with noiseless steps.
She almost resented having; left him the decision,
and yet she had never relied upon him but
he had proved himself strong. So, after every
wavering, she came back to the thought that
she could trust him. He would not send her
away.

The night passed, as it did now more and
more frequently, in a slumber so light that nota
breath was drawn unconsciously. She awoke
late, and there, under the door, was a letter.
Her breath fluttered on her lips. She could
not reach out her hand to touch this missive
of fate. Must she go ? Or would he let her
stay ?

Finally suspense became unbearable ; any

VOL. II. H

knowledge was better. She tore it open and
read.

It was not long, but it worked a transfiguration
in Bethesda's nature.

He kad seized upon tke unrecognised truth
kick kad dictated ker note, and showed it in
full stature to herself. What ske kad not
dreamed existed, ke kad exultingly seen. Ske
was kis now, unmistakably. He knew it, if
ske did not ; and tke sure taking possession
kick fascinated ker never hesitated.

^ I told tky two hands in mine,' ke wrote,
and bid thee stay. I rejoice that when an
angel troubled tke waters of tky virgin heart I,
unlike tke afflicted man wko waited for years
beside tke pool in far-ofi* Galilee, am able to step
first into tke sacred waters, and come forth restored
and glad. Ak, now my name kas a new
significance ! I am truly reborn, through tke
miracle of tky maiden nature stirred for me
alone.

Fear not, Bethesda, and be not sad. We
stall be always together. The breadth of the
earth, and the oceans, of heaven itself, cannot
divide us now.'

Amid, indeed, should she go away ? Not distance,
or time, or eternity could alter this truth.
She loved him ! The whole world might marvel :
they stood side by side, above the world, above
circumstances, above man, and the devil. They
were supreme, and united by the divine law of
Love.

And she ? — Why, the sunshine danced, and
the T\'ind was full of thrilling melody, and every
atom was quivering with joy like the air on a
heated hill-top. There was no more perplexity,
nor trouble, nor sorrow. The golden age had
come. All the leaves were of pure silver, and
the flowers priceless gems ; the very dust was
precious, and the rain a diamond shower. How
glad the world was ! there was no unhappiness
anywhere ; and what supreme happiness washers

! and oh, poor auntie, who had lost, perhaps,
even such delight ! What would she, Bethesda,
do if she should lose it ? But she would not,
she could not. All the peculiar circumstances
that had brought her and Eene together could
not occur twice, and his existence was now complete
; he himself had said it ! All else would
be superfluous. And for herself? Well, he
trusted her, and he knew her marvellously well.
She made no vows, but she thought he was not
mistaken. They would trust one another.

"What the law of nature is in regard to matter the moral law
is to man.'

Above all right and duty is love, leading lover and beloved
to the pure unfolding of their natures. "Woe to those who desecrate
its divine mission.' — Auerbach.

Periods of happiness are, they say, blank pages
in history. Who indeed can describe the processes
of growth, the blossoming of a plant, the
details of a sunrise ? Infinitesimal atoms meet
and coalesce and vibrate and increase, and after
a long period we perceive a colour. The vibrations
quicken and intensify, and another hue
becomes sensible to us. But who can trace the
changing ? who can see the subtle causes and the
still subtler effects ? Finally, when white light
is achieved, what is it but dazzling radiance before

which our eyes fall, blurred, blinded, well-nigh
destroyed through excess of sight ?

Eene d'Isten was almost as much astounded
as Bethesda at the effulgent joy which now broke
upon them. • He had of late known it must come,
and had anticipated it with a calmness which left
him all unprepared for the onslaught of rapture
which assailed him. It was fiercely encroaching ;
it almost frightened him, and yet it was with a
delicious fear. He was loved at last ; loved by
the fairest woman he had ever seen ; loved by a
noble character and a fine intellect. He was, yes,
surely, he was content.

Bethesda was more ; she was radiantly and
gloriously happy. She asked nothing of life ;
existence had blossomed into its rarest flower and
placed it in her hand. She was awed by its
beauty; she was well-nigh overpowered by its
fragrance. Each moment throbbed with a million
hearts, which yet seemed incapable of containing
her bliss. Her mind could not conceive its extent ;

her beiuo; could not contain it. Over the whole
world it spread, making her charitable, pitiful,
tender to both joy and sorrow. Love could not
come to her nature without thrilling; its finest
fibres. She began to understand what God's love
must be like, which enwraps the universe in its
warm folds.

Transcendently happy as she was, it made her
only more commiserating to the trials of those
not blessed as she was. Her aunt, Evra, Louise,
were all bathed in a flood of sympathy for their
deprivations. She could not be quite content
unless her happiness was made to serve others,
and she floated down from the heights of her
ecstasy to do some trifling service for Mrs. Trescott
with a bounteous grace never seen in her
before.

Of course Mrs. Trescott noticed the change,
for Beth grew more beautiful and stronger hour
by hour. She never looked tired now ; her steps
seemed winged in their elastic freedom ; her form

had lovelier curves, her flesh a softer lustre. Her
eyes, thought Eene, were a shining iridescence of
light over unknown and half-revealed depths ; her
mouth was embodied tenderness.

Mabel asked her one day what had happened
to make her so light-hearted ; were all her anxieties
gone 1

*Yes,' Bethesda affirmed with absolute sincerity,
* there is nothing more to fear. It is all
settled and sure, and oh ! so restful ! I did not
know it had been wearing on me until now the
weight is gone.'

How did it go, dear ? '

All of itself, auntie,' said Beth lightly. ^ I
don't know quite how. I only know it is all clear
now, — and do rejoice with me ! I am so, so
happy ! '

And Mabel did rejoice with her. It lifted
much weight from Mrs. Trescott's objections to
see her niece so radiant and well. She knew that
Eene loved Bethesda, and strongly suspected that

the love was reciprocated, although not acknowledged
even to the girl's own heart ; and, desiring
to give them as much pleasure as they could have,
allowed them to be together a large portion of the
time. Thevv were happy now, she argued, and if
the cost were large, it was too late not to pay it,
and there was all the more reason why they should
take its full value while they might.

Eene, knowing all, could not comprehend Mrs.
Trescott's actions. He was aware that Bethesda
had not told her aunt of the two notes, for he had
gently insinuated the prudence of letting matters
rest, and Bethesda was only too ready to do so.
It was hardly ten days now before they left, and
she had no doubt, no acknowledged doubt, but
that her aunt, after a due amount of persuasion,
would consent to this, as she had to all the rest.
Her aunt could see all if she chose ; neither of
them tried to conceal their spontaneous actions ;
and since Mrs. Trescott did not speak, she probably
did not positively either approve or disapprove.

Oftener and oftener now midnight found the
three still together, and when one night, in some
veiled surprise, Beth referred to their changed
"habits, Mabel said :

It is not often that such pleasant hours come
in life, and I believe in taking the fulness of
enjoyment from them while they last. I don't
care to sit up late just for the idea of it, but when
there is anything that makes it worth while, no
one is readier than I am to let time slip by unnoticed.'


You are a dear auntie ! '

^ Am I ? Well, we are enjoying ourselves now,
and on the steamer we can make up lost sleep —
when Eene is no more with us.'

And what will I be doing then ? ' asked Eene,
a trifle reproachfully.

Oh, you'll have the peace to make with all
your friends,' said Mrs. Trescott. ^ How many of
them have you neglected '? you, who used always
to leave us at ten to attend to social duties ! Do

you remember that evening when you were going
to some state affair and came in here just to show
yourself in all your orders, and then never went
after all ? Tell me you won't have plenty to do
in conciliating everybody I '

I will succeed he answered confidently.
My friends now think I am writing a book.
They ask me each day how it progresses. I tell
them : Well, very well.'

He smiled at Bethesda, and there was a merry
peal of laughter.

When you go away I shall have finished my
first volume. Some will be eager to see it, but I
shall make them wait until it is published. You
see I shall be quite frank.'

I wish you would be frank about everything,'
said Mabel, a little soberly.

And are we not, madame ? Our companionship
is as open as the daylight. We need not
intrude details on all the world, but if they look
they can see.'

Yes ; I suppose that is true. As long as our
consciences are clear we need not inquire the
opinions of others. If there is one thing I detest
it is pandering to public opinion ! Life early
took that weakness out of me.'

I don't know,' said Bethesda, a trifle wistfully.
I like the good opinion of every one. We were
said in Florence, Eene, to be the only foreign
women about whom there was no gossip. That
gratified me exceedingly, I confess.'

Eene glanced at her with just a tinge of possible
remorse. But the present was her own
choice, and every moment bore witness to her
happiness in it.

Often now Eene brought some manuscript for
Bethesda to criticise to the parlour in the mornings,
and as Mrs. Trescott was generally home,
occupied with milliners and dressmakers, but still
affording chaperonage, he was gladly invited in.
Then they would take refuge in the deep embrasure
of the window, near which was the desk,

and spend many happy hours oblivious of the
chatter and bargaining going on without their
charmed retreat.

Sometimes, in the interims, when the room
would be for a few moments empty, Rene would
press his lips to Bethesda's firm hand, now lying
relaxed on the desk. Once his moustache brushed
her hair as he looked over a paper she held, and
it made her curiously faint. A few days before
they left, in picking up a fallen book, the lithe
man kissed her foot.

She started back at that, and looked at him
nth large eyes. His face was glowing. He
stood very close to her and whispered :

I thought I never should abase myself to kiss
a woman's foot, but I am jDroud to kiss yours.'

She moved away, not with coyness, nor indignation,
but a feeling of solemn responsibility
seizing her heart. Here was her woman's work,
her duty was clear and imperative. She must
leave him while he was in this state ; but he

must understand it was not anger, only rebuke.
She turned when lie reached her door and gave
him a glance.

He darted after her as a needle to its magnet ;
but she was too quick for him. With a leap of
the heart which nearly stunned her she was in
her room, and the door was close shut.

Then she fell on her knees and, for a moment,
lost consciousness. The gnawing pain in her
heart roused her. She did not mind it ; it was
sweet to her. Was she not bearing it for him ?

'Any other pleasures are not worth love's
pains ; ' and this is true even of corporeal pains.
The terror Bethesda had always had of the disease
which had killed her mother faded away in the
desire to prove herself, by fire and sword, worthy
of her love.

Here was now a palpable test. She who had
been blind to nature before suddenly awakened
to its terrible force. In her hands lay the controlling
and guiding power of her own and another's

soul. She must, indeed, now, be his conscience
; and to be this she must follow her own.
Their love, their life, their rectitude, depended
upon her. The awful responsibility came near
crushing her as she contemplated it and felt her
weakness, felt the omnipotence this other will
held over hers, and that, in its despite, she must
save them both.

While she was dressing for dinner, a couple of
hours afterwards, a white missive came under her
door. Not a step was to be heard, but there it
lay, and presently she stooped to lift it.

He had probably realised the delicacy of their
position, and had written some apology.

She opened and read it, and the announcement
of dinner came while she still stared at the glowing
epistle. The words should have been traced inflame
to express either the feelings of writer or
receiver. For it was not an apology in the least.
It was a revelling in imaginative visions, which
wounded Bethesda to the quick.

Perhaps I should have gone to London,' she
murmured, as she held the letter to the candle
flame. ' Perhaps I have hurt him, been a temptress
to him, my noble, pure Eene ! '

There was something of the mother's regret in
her tone, of the mother's forgiving solicitude.
She would save him from himself.

A swift knock came at the parlour door. Eene
had called for them to go down to dinner. She
waited until she heard her aunt come out, and
then joined them, keeping close beside Mrs.
Trescott.

Eene instantly saw she was grieved, and took
the hint she had given. He devoted himself to
Madame Gabelle the whole evenings. He directed
all his conversation to her, not neglecting
Bethesda, nor altering his manner enough for
her aunt to notice it ; and contriving, in an inimitable
manner, to surround Bethesda with a
sense of entire submission to her will.

What with this quick yielding, and discriminating

devotion, lier heart relented. She tlioiioht
she had misjudged him. That she should be in
fault here ! It was too cruelly mortifying ; she
would never forgive herself.

So when they separated, a little earlier than
common, he understood that his peace was made.

A couple of hours later M. d'Isten came down
the stairs lightly. He could not sleep ; indeed,
he had not tried, but since leaving the ladies had
sat at his window watching the movement of
the river silvered by the moon.

What had been his thoughts during that long
reverie ? Not he himself could say. His mind
was usually clear and precise even in silence ; but
to-nio'lit it was different. He was letting; his
memory slip back and his imagination sweep forwards
without any attempt to control either.
He was in that dan onerous state termed drifting.

Whither had the imperceptible waves carried
him that he should now descend to the lower
hall, and cast on the dim outline of familiar sur-vol.

II. I

soundings an eager as well as pensive glance '?
Had the quiet quadrangle, with its closed doors
and blank walls, taken the place of those inexorable
banks which imprisoned the creeping waves ?
Or was he simply indulging a fancy for pacing
up and down a larger space than his room afforded
on this dreamy summer night ?

He had made several slow turns, and was
lingering in the window to breathe the cool night
air, when his attention was called into sudden
action by a sound in the room near which he
stood. The door noiselessly opened, and, hiding
himself behind the heavy curtains, he could see a
slight figure in trailing white draperies go quickly
along the hall to the parlour where he had passed
so many delicious hours.

The door yielded to her hand, and she went
in, leaving it ajar. From Kene's position he
could see her cross the room and go to the desk
where they so often consulted together. Paper
after paper she took out and glanced over by the



brilliant moonlight. The attitudes she assumed,
clearly cut against the soft radiance, were exquisite.
Once or twice, with the little impatient
gesture that was delightfully familiar to him, she
tossed the mantle of her hair aside, and in falling
its duskiness caught g-olden orleans that made it
seem alive. Once in the midst of her search she
stood quite still. He knew she was troubled.
Was she thinking him ? oTievino^ over something'
he had said or done, or something; he had
failed to say or do ?

Finally she shut the desk with the same caution
that had guarded all her movements. Was
she going back to her chamber now, to sleep, to
dream i

The perturbed watcher took a step forward in
the comparative darkness caused by the closing
of the door, but instantly shrank back. She had
hesitated a moment, and was now coming to the
very place where he stood.

He drew" the draperies closer about him. The

sound of her garments on the wooden floor was
the only one to be heard. The hum of the city
sank into abeyance ; the wind was suddenly
still.

The man had a remarkable capacity for blotting
himself out, of which he now made use to the
uttermost, and the voluminous window-hangings
aided him so successfully that there was not a
thought in Bethesda's mind of any one being
nearer than her aunt as she stepped into the
embrasure.

The moon shone here also, and he could see,
in illuminated distinctness, the soft pallor of her
face and the tremulous curves of her mouth.
She was thinking of him, surely ; she was grieving
with virgin sorrow over their inevitable separation
; listening, in the silence of night, to the
moan nature made deep beneath the brave spirit
which accepted a maimed lot as unrivalled happiness.


Lovely, beloved Esda ! her lot was joined to

his, to his unhappy destiny. Perhaps for the
first time he let a feeling of bitterness towards
Louise rise unchecked. That her weakness and
petty ambition should have ruined the perfect
union these two might have made !

But that was all past — an irrevocable past, —
and he was D-oino- to be ' unlike other men.'

Ma chere, belle France ! ' murmured Bethesda.

She had been standing cjuite still, her eyes
wandering from the sky and trees to those smooth
links which had fascinated Eene a while ago.
Now he was fascinated in another way. At her
low exclamation his heart beat tumultuously ; he
feared she would hear its quick throb. Voucher
sensitive ear allow him to escape undiscovered
? He hardly dared to breathe.

But she was absorbed in her own dreams.
She did not hear the hurried heart-beats so near
her own ; she did not feel the short breaths that
almost touched her cheek ; but, peculiarly open
to sympathetic influences as she was, she did feel

the magnetism of his presence. She moved a
trifle, and leaned against the casement within a
few inches of his breast. Her face was turned
away ; she was so close that he could not see her
figure, but only looked down upon her soft hair
and brow.

He dared not look! One slight movement
would enfold her in his arms, and not reluctantly,
perhaps ! That unconscious yielding to his presence
! — it was maddening !

A long shudder passed over him, and his eyes
closed.

The woman started upright. Had she heard
anything, felt anything ? He did not know ; he
could not care.

He did not see her scan the enclosure with a
swift glance, nor witness the trembling of an
uncomprehended fear, but he heard an uneasy
half laugh, half sigh, as she moved quickly
away.

When he again opened his eyes everything

was dim. A cloud had come over the moon, and
the darkness was empty and chill.

He had to feel his way upstairs. He did not
once look behind him. Perhaps he, too, was
afraid of ghosts.

Love is found to consist in the marriage of true minds, in a
mutual surrender, in a mental correspondence, on which, in spite
of time and death, constancy stamps the seal of immortality, and
completeness impresses the semblance of infinitude.' — Simpson's
Phil, of Shakespeare Sonnets.

There may be men who take every moral height at a dash ;
but to the most of us there must come moments when our wills
can but just rise and walk in their sleep.' — Geo. W. Cable.

The next morning when M. d'Isten entered the
parlour, he saw in an instant that Bethesda,
sitting in the bay window, was, if not angry,
subdued. He immediately crossed over to her
and held out his hand.

'Bon jour, Bethesda,' he said, with a persuasive
smile.

She did not refuse him her hand, but as the
cold fingers lay in his she said low :

I must speak with you.'

He was alarmed by lier manner, and with his
usual skill had in a few moments arranged an
excuse for a tete-astute.

Behold me at your orders he said then
gravely, standing before her. She motioned him
to a chair, and in a low voice began abruptly :

'Your letter yesterday made me sad, Eene.
Even in imagination we must not go too far.
Thought is free, you say ; yes, it is free, and
therefore it should be so guided as to bring: us
the truest happiness. I am afraid we are both
falling away from our first conception of this
compact : A. uniting of minds whose only aim
was literary development.'

That was all,' he said in a tone between a
question and a reproach, while he watched her
keenly. Would she fail him ?

You said,' she continued, with downcast eyes,
that I helped you to recognise your trials for
what they were, *' the work of God." There is

nothing you could say to give me more happiness
than this. I wish always to be an aid, never a
burden either in thought or action ; but this
cannot be unless we remember the circumstances
in which we are placed and live accordingly ;
otherwise we must separate now.'

Bethesda ! ' exclaimed Eene, in a low tone of
pain.

I am not angry said Bethesda hastily. ' Do
not fancy that for a moment. I am only sad
because it hurts me to give you pain, and yet I
cannot do otherwise. I tried to think last evening
I could let it slip by without saying anything,
but it did not seem right. I wish you
always for my friend, Eene ; we are in a most
difficult position ; we must look closely where
we step, and when your poetic fancy dazzles you
with its impossible possibilities I must be clear-sighted,
and turn you from the dangerous path.'

Perhaps the effect of such words as these,
with their endeavour to recall cooler relations by

J

calling passion ' poetic,' and fervour ' fancy ' — by
letting fall the snow of prudence on the fires of
tumultuous feeling' — can be somewhat imagined,
coming to Eene after an apparition such as that
of the night before, and the suppositions he had
had of the fair ghost's musings now so coldly
belied.

He felt thwarted and hurt. If his emotions
had not obscured his usual insight he miorht
easily have seen the subdued yearning which
underlay every sentence of the seemingly chill
words ; but no amount of insight could have
taught him now so well as the imperious instinct
he followed.

He bent before her without a word, lifted her
hands to his trembling lips, and with swift steps
left the enclosure and the apartment.

He remained in his room the whole morning,
feeling keenly the poignancy of his position ;
feeling throT\Ti back upon himself as nothing
had ever made him feel before. It was not her

fault nor his, he told himself ; there was nothing
to conquer or evade. She was right ; their cruel
position constrained them, and the outstretched
wings were clipped and cramped back into the
cage.

At noon he let luncheon slip by unnoticed,
and later, when he was obliged to go to the
minister, he stole downstairs with the utmost
caution that Bethesda should not hear his step.
He returned, looking haggard. Like Bethesda,
mental agitation told quickly on his physique.
He went to his room with a springless step), and
let himself fall desolately into a chair.

A cynical observer might have said he was
taking the luxury of misery, but he would have
been unjust. Eene d'Isten's temperament was
essentially poetic, — that is, he felt through the
imagination as well as the emotions. Everything
was heightened by this double focus. It
was his misfortune in many cases, as it was his
delight in others. His tendency was to go to

:>

extremes, and only by the necessary education of
exact self-government had this quality been subdued.
Now, in the relaxation of severe discipline,
it had its revenge, and his trouble was not
exaggerated but intensely felt.

He went down to dinner before any one else,
took a plate of soup, and hurried away. He
could not eat, and he did not wish to meet anyone.
The ladies knew he had an eno-ao-ement

O o

that evening which must be fulfilled. It had
been often deplored in advance ; now, he was
grateful for it. He could not endure to enter
their accustomed circle with the necessity of
repression upon him.

Yet he longed inexpressibly to see Bethesda.
The tears stood in his eyes as he went blindly
upstairs. He heard the parlour door open and
then their voices. Mabel was wondering where
Eene was, and looking up and down the stairs
for him.

No retreat was possible. He stepped into a

recess to make way for them, and to be in the
shade. As Mabel swept past, thinking he would,
of course, follow them, she said reproachfully :

Why didn't you wait for us ? '

He did not answer, and Bethesda looked up
in quick alarm, all the fears of the day crystallised
in an instant.

Her searching glance called him forth from
silence and shadow. She saw his pallid face with
lines of pain heavily drawn upon it, and she
stopped at once.

I have been to dinner,' he said in a husky
voice.

Can I do nothing for you ? ' she exclaimed
from her heart. ' What has happened ? '

Her yearning eyes were fixed upon him,
and the tears sprang to his very eyelids in
reply.

I cannot say,' he murmured ; ' only, do not
grieve.'

Then, with a wild impulse of absolute submission,

lie took her hand as she stood above
him, and, bending low, laid it upon his head.

A second later he sprang past her, and ran
upstairs.

Bethesda joined her aunt, her brain in a whirl.
Was she the cause of all this suffering ; she, who
would not hurt him for worlds '?

^ Where is Eene ? ' asked Mrs. Trescott, surprised
to see her alone.

Bethesda composed herself to answer, and
shield him.

He has had his dinner. He is going out,
you remember, and took it early.'

The evening, so rare to be spent alone, was
lonely.

Dear me, how we shall miss Eene ! ' sighed
Mabel, and Bethesda shuddered.

Before she slept she wrote him wildly, beseeching
him not to think her cruel, that she
was as much hurt as he ; more, since she had to
deal the blow. ' Be the same as before your last

letter ; those were happy days. I cling close to
my friends ; even if unwise, I cling close to you.
Don't hold me away ! '

She despatched this in the morning by the
servant who brought her coffee ; and Eene
answered it immediately, a delicate, deferential,
yet tender letter, which added much to Bethesda's
admiration for him. He was always so
ready to admit a mistake, so fearlessly humble ;
and to think that she should hold the reins of
such a nature !

When they met Eene's old manner was entirely
restored. A healthier reaction had set
in before he received Bethesda's letter, and
that, with its clinging dependence, never fully
evidenced before, compensated him for the misunderstanding,
which, after all, was not entirely

pain.

He knew well that a stream cannot be turned
backwards by any slight means ; and that a fall,
no matter how short, makes the current surer

and swifter for a while. How often had Bethesda
fondly imagined a few words would restore
the waters to their tiny spring, there to be safely
contained, and never, oh, never, to overflow
again 1

Eene knew better. The spring had made a
stream, and the stream a river ; the current was
strong, the waters many ; it must inevitably flow
into the sea ; indeed, it was already exchanging
its onward current for the recurrent tide. What
Bethesda mistook for a turning of the flood in an
old direction was but the ebb of an everlasting;
sea ; and the ebb was only a gathering of forces
for the new flow.

Slowly, imperceptibly to her, yet how fatally
swift ! the tide crept up. What had been at one
time forbidden or deplored was now" accepted
without a thought : what had been the cause of
gentle rebuke was now an unquestioned pleasure.
The shining ripples played about Bethesda's feet,
and she delighted in them, standing; on the shore

VOL. II. K

of that fatal sea. The spray shone crystal-clear,
and threw itself lightly to her lips, her eyes ;
she brushed it away at first, then enjoyed the
fresh free touch, and let it blind her sight.

The waves crept higher, and she threw herself
in a delicious rapture on the smooth surface,
and let herself drift with them to feel their buoyancy
and strength. She did not doubt assistant
but that she could touch her feet, and the waves
would, in any case, carry her back presently ;
and she smiled at the receding shore.

It all seemed to her so peaceful and calm
that she could not believe it was fraught with
the most imminent danger. The mighty power
to which she and Eene were now equally subdued
asserted its supremacy over all circumstances,
over all adventitious facts. Thought was
free ; love was free ; sympathy of mind and heart
could not be chained ; it over-arched all as the
sky does trees, and shrubs, and men.

But deeds could be controlled. Here the

clear-sioflited resolve of a lifetime strengthened
Eene to obey what lie knew was right in Bethesda's
prohibitions, and the intuitive cleaving to
purity held Bethesda to moral action.

The terrible undertow of passion they did not
recognise at the time. It was only an instinctive
effort that they made to keep on the surface;
and the waters were exquisitely beautiful, and
elastic, and strong ; and soon, oh, so cruelly
soon ! they were to take separate paths along the
shore, and might never be again together. Let
them enjoy it while they could, since life would
be dry hereafter.

Their separation was, indeed, now drawing
very near, and already darkened their hopes.

I shall come to America, do not fear,' said
Eene, for Bethesda was haunted with a horrible
sense of the frailty of their imaginative fabric.
I shall come,' he repeated. ' Every step I
advance in my career will bring me nearer to the
day when I shall meet you there. Trust me,

Esda ; before many years I will be in the corps
diplomatique of Washington.'

Bethesda did not reply. She had often
wondered why it was that Eene looked forward
to the coming years with so much less apprehension
and intolerable weariness than herself.

After much veiled scrutiny and careful study,
however, through a judgment unobscured by
pique — for she was of a large enough nature to
give gold for silver and never count the cost —
she came to the conclusion that it was because
he had long looked forward hopelessly, decades
stretching before him in sterile monotony, and
that now he saw them transfigured by a warm
light, and blossoming with all the delectable
flowers of sympathy, so that, naturally, the
change was only a delight.

With herself, she thought quite simply, it was
different.

When she once comprehended this she listened
without fear, but feeling a strange sense of incompetence

in understanding, to his plans for
six, eight, ten, twenty years ahead. Was she
going to live all these alone 1 Her mind refused
to grasp the sum of this enormous debt. It was
just as well, better indeed, that it did. We can
take step after step for a long time, but if we had
to leap them all at once, — well, we should probably
break our necks.

^ Eemember, Esda,' said Eene, after a pause,
remember, thou must never desert me. Promise
me that if thou art ill unto death, thou
wilt send for me. From the farthest point of
the earth I will come to thee.'

It mio'ht not be rio;ht. Never let me interfere
with duty. But auntie is the one to ask for that.'

I will, to-night.'

And if you are ill ? '

Thou shalt know it, and when I die, aU our
letters and papers will be sent to you. I have
arranged it. I can make myself obeyed even in
death.'

In spite of these lugubrious conversations the
last days were happy ones. Eene, except in
moments on which he refused to let himself dwell,
felt his life full. And Bethesda felt that pain slept
while he was present. Deep in her consciousness
she was aware of something ready sto spring
upon her like a wild, ravenous beast, but now
it was chained, and she turned her back upon it.

Mrs. Trescott was sick at heart in watching
her. Without knowing that the girl recognised
it, she did know that Eene d'Isten held her
darling's love, and she cried out passionately
against the sorrow and suffering such a lot would
bring. The girl had changed before her eyes.
She was no longer her little niece ; she was a
deep-souled woman, with wide capacities which
no one knew. Even Mrs. Trescott doubted if
she knew her thoroughly now. And extraordinary
natures must be extraordinarily treated. A
few days, and this dangerous intimacy would
cease ; a couple of weeks, and the ocean would

gradually divide these characters now being
welded into one.

With, cruel celerity the last day approached.
It was the evening before their departure, and
at an early hour next morning the train would
leave. Mrs. Trescott was in her travelling
dress, but Bethesda wore a black dress, long,
and plain, with deep lace cuffs and collar,
from which her head rose, on its full throat,
unusually severe and classical.

She was looking every inch a queen o'er herself,
and yet Bene knew what turbulent vassals
she had to control.

He could not believe the hour was so near ;
but he braced himself to bear the inevitable
with his usual firmness. When they went
how much happiness would they leave behind
them ! Paris would no longer be the same hollow
city, with an empty heart beneath its gaiety.

He said something; of the kind : he knew it
would comfort Bethesda, and he knew, too, she

needed comfort. Her large eyes shone upon him,
now, in the deep devotion which yet did not
wholly fill their capacity.

^ You are happier for our coming, Eene V she
said, the least bit wistfully.

He answered by holding out his hand towards
her across the table. She put hers in it, thimble,
needle, and all.

Are you not afraid of my pricking you V

'I know you would not hurt me.'

True,' she replied, with undue solemnity.
The needle would have to pierce my finger
before it reached yours.'

Such a remark should come from Eene,' said
Mrs. Trescott. ' He should be the one to save
the other pain.'

Of course he would ; but need I be behind
him in it ? A woman may suffer to save,
as well as a man.'

^ You will be your husband's slave yet, with
such notions, Beth.'

I think not, auntie said Bethesda gravely,
letting her eyes fall, and drawing away her
hand.

'A man loves a woman just in proportion to
the amount she exacts from him. If you accept
all, and do nothing, he will be absolutely
devoted.'

I would prefer losing love than degrading
myself to obtain it.'

You'll get over all that when you are dependent
on a man's affections. You'll have to learn
wisdom then. When you marry we'll see.'

■' I shall never marry.'

How are you going to avoid it, Esda V asked
Eene, Quietly.

How ? ' was the startled response. ' What
do you mean ? I can decline if need be, I
suppose.'

But what if Madame Gabelle should marry
again, and you should be left alone ? '

There is Margaret, and Aunt Agatha too.

But Margaret and I could easily live alone together,
if it were necessary.'

^ She may marry too

Well, I am not incapable of living entirely
alone. Others have. done it, and I can. Certainly,
nothing should force me into a marriage
contrary to my inclinations. I despise '

She broke off short. She had been about,
inadvertently, to blame Louise. But Eene did
not notice the abrupt termination, for he was
thinking deeply.

Oh, see the moon,' exclaimed Mabel just
then, and she went to the window. ' Come, Beth,'
she cried ; 'look at our last European moon.'

The others rose at this, and joined her. The
sky was still bright with the sunset reflections,
and the slender crescent was reaping in a greenfield.


I shall never see the western glories henceforth,'
said Eene, ' without remembering that they
are caused by the treasure beneath the sky.'

Oh, if you are going to talk poetry I will
withdraw !' exclaimed Mabel, and went back to
her seat restlessly.

There was a little pause on the balcony, then
Eene whispered :

Thou art like the moon, Esda, and thou
dearest me in every drop of my veins, as the
moon draws the sea.'

She did not reply, but her face was eloquent.

Presently she began to say :

You know sometimes it is said that the old
moon is in the arms of the new, and that the
effect is caused by the earth's light shining on
the shadowed portion, and the sun's light on the
other. There's a little lesson in science for you,
and here's one — in a deeper science perhaps.
You can think, if you like, when you see the
moon so, that where others shine on me, and
where you shine on me, Eene, there is the same
difference.'

Her voice sank to a pathetic loveliness in the

last words, and Eene felt almost a sense of awe
at the thought of this having, for ever, this
woman's devotion.

I am as far from you, Esda, as Endymion
from Diana,' he said, somewhat sadly ; and he
did not even touch her hand.

Three weeks from day after tomorrow,'
remarked Mrs. Trescott, as they returned to the
parlour, ' we will be with Margaret and Agatha.
I would like to see you try to win her over,' she
added abruptly, ' if she didn't take a fancy to
you, Eene.'

He laughed a little, as he asked :

Is she so very obdurate ?'

No cajoling could cloud her judgment an
instant,' was the decided answer.

That is hardly the way Eene would take to
win her esteem,' remarked Bethesda. ' She is
eminently one whose respect can be commanded,
for she is very just.'

Eene gave her a sharp glance, and presently

led her to talk about this Aunt As^atlia and her
husband. It was highly advisable that he should
know as much as possible of the characters with
which he would have to deal in meeting Bethesda
in America.

These two might be somewhat formidable, he
soon surmised, but he had no fear. Bethesda
was bound to him by all the fidelity of her
nature ; he believed she would rather leave all
her friends than cast him off ; and within a few
months she would be her own mistress, and with
money at her arbitrary command. He did not
hesitate to look clearly in the face the possibility
of her living alone — with some staid chaperone,
of course — alienated from her friends, because of
her devotion to him. His ideal woman would
rather suffer this than submit to anv strictures
on her love ; and, with all his experience, he had
come to have such confidence in Bethesda that
he believed her to exemplify his ideal in every
respect.

But this life alone was only a matter of extreme
emergency. She had tact ; he counselled
her, directly and indirectly, to use it. There
was no need of offending her family ; no sacrifice
would be asked if she concealed what little
Madame Gabelle did not know, and go her own
way without consulting others.

He stimulated her ambition also, both as
woman and as artist. He wished her to shine
in society ; to take her place as queen of her
peers. He desired to have increasing cause to
be proud of her, and to think that this beautiful,
cultured woman, whom many adored, was
inalienably his. The more renowned she became,
the loftier grew his station ; the more
suitors she refused, the more triumph for him.
She should be a brilliant woman, and a woman
of intellect, and, in both positions, feel her dependence
on him.

She was not slow in responding to the carefully
concocted excitant. If she wondered at

his lack of jealousy, she argued that it only
proved his absolute faith in her, and no vows
were needed in her determination to be worthy
of such trust.

At no time were the anxieties and embarrassments
of the life she had planned, ignored.
Neither were the shadows and sorrows unrecognised
; indeed, she comforted herself with
the thought that, since life can never be unmixed
joy, the very rocks in her path were
assurances of its stability. Were it otherwise,
it would be too ethereal to endure.

The transmutation of forces gained mutually
by Eene and Bethesda caused him to feel far
more deeply than even before, and had developed
in her the use of her eyes. No long-er
was one to be controlled by simple intelligence,
or the other by intuition. They exchange-ed
their distinguishing masculine and feminine
attributes, and each partook of the strength of
the other. In seeking Bethesda's intellect Eene

had been roused to the enthusiasm of her
emotional nature, and that now inundated all
primary aims. In responding to the claims of
Eene's intellect, hence finding the need of reason
and discrimination, Bethesda developed her
natural capacities with rapidity. Through her
he found the passion which warms; through
him she found the reason which steadies. She
no longer was tossed from this to that, but had
some things in which she could trust, some ideas
by which she could hold firm ; and his life was
no longer that of an observer from a lonely
standpoint, but the intense existence of eager
participation, striving for the best.

Such were they to one another, and now
they were to separate.

The last evening lingered, and fortified
itself, and lingered again. How could they
break it ofi'? But, finally, Mrs. Trescott insisted
on prudence, called attention to Beth's weariness,
and reminded them of the fact that tomorrow

they would meet at an early hour. So
the last good-nights were said, and Eene left.

Bethesda proceeded to gather np her work
in silence, and with an unconquerable languor ;
Mabel, watching her, did not even dare say, Be
brave ! for fear the recognition of her trial would
overpower her. It was hard now, but once
away, once in America, matters would change ;
she was confident of that. Beth was a girl
naturally absorbed by the present, she reasoned ;
the future would be a new present, and she
would be absorbed by that. It may be seen
that Mrs. Trescott's philosophy was easy, and,
fitting herself, fitted every one else, in her
opinion, equally well.

When Bethesda bade her o'ood-nio'ht, and
went out into the now dark hall, and was just
about to open her own door, a voice close beside
her said softly :

Esda ! '

She started, but made no sound.

VOL. II. L

I could not leave you so, this last night,'
whispered Bene. ' Tell me now, Esda, goodnight


He held both her hands in his, and drew her
towards him. For a moment she did not resist.
She was longing for paralysis, for death, for anything
that would not tear her away.

Then she conquered her weakness, and stood
upright, disengaging even her hands. He
allowed it, but said in a tone of reproach her
name again.

Oh, Eene ! ' she exclaimed, in an agonised
whisper ; ' I cannot bear it ! '

Courage ! ' he said, startled by her voice.
We will never be apart. And now, only goodnight
! '

He had secured her hand as she thrust it
from her, in the sudden access of despair, and
pressed it to his forehead, and eyes, and mouth.
He knelt before her in the glimmering darkness,
and laid the soft palm on his head — a

proud head that had never bowed to any one
but her.

I am all yours, Esda,' he said solemnly, as
if taking a pott.

His outstretched arms sank until they formed
a circle around her feet ; he pressed his lips to
one arched instep, and then the other ; and she,
wildly, let him do it. Her whole soul was ina
tumult, a deafening uproar of passion and
woe ; and yet not a sound escaped into the still
night.

At last-sith a violent effort, she moved, and
said, in accents he never forgot :

ego! Go!'

He sprang to his feet, T\'ithout touching so
much as a fold of her long black robes, and she,
laboriously, painfully, turned and entered her
room.

Not a word was spoken, and before the door
closed he went Quickly away.

She felt like one locked in tke Garden of Eden all alone —
alone with all the ravishing flowers, alone with all the lions and
tigers. She wished she had told the secret when it was small.
At first it had been but a garland, then it had become a
chain, now it was a ball and chain.' — Geo. W. Cable.

No one can save you but yourself, for no one can so often
tel you the truth.' — Auerbach.

Eene went with this friends as far as Calais, and
as the train sped through their dear France with
a swiftness Bethesda longed unceasingly to clog,
a quietude in her companions made Mabel declare
she would try a nap. Eene assisted her to
make herself comfortable, and then returned to
his seat beside Bethesda. She was pale this
morning, but brave, and Eene kept constantly in
both their minds the fact that she or her aunt
should have a daily good-morning from him

while in England, and frequent letters in America;
and Bethesda responded to it all with an eagerness
to be hopeful that was akin to pain.

There came a somewhat serious pause at last,
however, which Bethesda broke by saying :

'AVho would ever have thought we should
like one another, from the way we first met?
Do you know, auntie has never told me what
that quarrel was V

Don't speak of it ! It was a foolish affair ; I
cannot understand myself in it — now.'

Had you not better tell me ? ' asked Bethesda,
a grave trust in her voice. ' Auntie will be sure
to make me know some time. I have already
avoided it many times. I thought perhaps
you would rather I should hear it first from
you.'

My invaluable guide ! ' exclaimed Eene. But
he hesitated ; his brows contracted, and he flushed
a little. Then he said : * Yes ; I will tell it to
my conscience. She should know all. It was a

small thing, but it makes me ashamed, especially
before your eyes.'

Therefore I ought to know it ; yes ? '
Her manner was of the gentlest, and expressed
a desire to do only what was truest for him. He
fully appreciated it ; but it was no easy task his
conscience required of him. However, with a
new imperious instinct, he did as she bade him.

When I first met your aunts he began hurriedly,
^ Louise had left me only long enough forme
to feel my loneliness and bitter disappointment,
and yet not sufficient time had elapsed forme
to have become accustomed to my position.
Then there was a something, I know not what,
about Madame Gabelle which puzzled me. I
know now it was the contrast of American and
French customs, which I did not appreciate in its
real extent. Well, I took her at last as my confidante,
for an imaginative fancy for some being
whom I wished I might know and love. The
quality of exaggeration which you are aware she

possesses made this seem to her very wicked.
She knew I was married — she knew nothing
more. She took the matter far more seriously
than I ever meant it, and she became extremely
angry, and wrote that she renounced me with
scorn for ever. I do not pretend to defend myself;
but I could not bear the imputation she
had put upon me. I determined to meet her
and eradicate that impression, for I knew it was
only the weakness of a weak moment. Now, I
blush at my folly ; I hate it as much as you can
do, Esda. It was like talking in my sleep ; I did
not know what I said, — and then you came and
wakened me.'

I am glad you told me,' said Bethesda, when
he had finished.

'You are not angry, dear Esda V asked Eene,
leaning forward to look full in her face. She
raised her eyes to his without hesitation.

No, I am not in the least angry.'

And you do not blame me — very severely ? '

I am your conscience she said, with a faint
smile. ' I blame you no more than it.' After a
moment's pause she added : * It was weak, but I
believe, as you say, it was only momentary.
You asked forgiveness of yourself, as well as of
Aunt Mabel. In the future it can be forgotten.'

'Yes, we will not think of it more,' he answered,
with a long breath. ' I am relieved that
you know it, but now it may fall into oblivion.
Give me your hand a moment, Esda.'

She put her gloved hand in his with her usual
sweet dignity, and the train sped on several
miles while silence joined instead of separating
them.

Presently Mrs. Trescott roused herself, and
then came Calais, and the blue, foamy Channel.

To-morrow a letter from me will be crossing
it,' said Eene, seeing Bethesda blanch.

And in two weeks or less we will be on the
ocean,' added Bethesda.

With her all this was but the prelude. Where

the Channel would now interfere with their meetings
the interminable ocean would divide them
then. But she strove to be brave, and succeeded.
She still defied that hungry beast of
grief, stealthily creeping towards her, ready to
spring.

As the boat cast off she threw back her head
proudly, and looked to the land with shining
eyes. He was on the quay, and she on the vessel,
and the blue waters grew wider and wider between
them, who perhaps would never meet
again. It was only the beginning, she knew, but
her face was quiet, even glad. How great washer
gain ! Immeasurable ; imponderable. Grief
could have little effect upon it.

And Eene stood watching her, so beautiful, so
graceful, so brave, until he longed to leap to her,
never again to part. Each throb of the engine,
each turn of the wheel, seemed to hit and hurt
him as long as he could hear or see. And, as he
turned away at last, when the ship had become

a speck, and the smoke was all that could be distinguished,
he felt a merriment du coeur which
frightened him.

She had taken not only herself away, which
meant much, but she was draining his veins of
their life-blood by her absence. He commenced
now to understand that this unity of life means
pain as well as joy ; that to disintegrate a double
spiritual life is like disintegrating a physical life,
which produces agony. She had suffered it all a
thousand times in anticipation ; he, man-like, did
not know what it meant until it was upon him.
But he had to endure it at its worst now, while
she was counting over the treasure she had
amassed, and finding it golden.

In London Evra and Mrs. Conover were at
the station to welcome them, and when they
reached the house everything was cosy and
bright. It was almost like a home-coming, so
warm were the motherly cares of Mrs. Conover
and the tender solicitude of Evra. Indeed, to

DD

Betliesda it was but a foretaste, as each incident
lead been since they left Paris.

]Miss. Trescott was lodged in a stately room
upstairs, but Erra carried Betliesda off to ber
own room, and, showing a dainty boudoir beyond,
said :

Here, darling, you are to share these with
me. Now, no denying, sweet ; you would break
my heart. I know you like to sleep alone, so I
have had a little bed put in the dressing-room.
It is comfortable, but I hope sometimes you will
be persuaded to make me a little visit. Now,
let me look at you ; I have not had a chance yet.
My loveliest of women ! I did not remember
you were so beautiful, and yet I have only
dreamed of you since we parted.'

She caught Bethesda to her in a passionate
embrace. The girl submitted at first, then freed
herself with a slight shudder.

What is the matter V asked Evra quickly.

Oh, I am so tired ! '

True, dear ; I should have remembered. May
I help you ? You will let me be maid ? I wouldn't
lift a finger for myself, but for you ! '

Bethesda yielded, more submissively than
gladly. She felt a miserable sense of inadequacy
before this frank and craving love. She
was barren of the power of giving, because she
was asked too much. It was, as it had always
been, with this difference : now her capacity for
passionate devotion had been tested, and found
ample; and still there was none — none of the
kind asked — for Guinevere.

The supple lady served Bethesda with swiftness
and delight ; occasionally a little awkward
in her humble position, but only sufficiently so
to occasion a laugh now and then, which made
feeling between them less tense and healthier.
They chatted incessantly meanwhile ; Evra with
an excited pleasure in being able to talk once
more to this queen of her heart, — Bethesda
eagerly, not to let a pause come.

Just as they were leaving the room Bethesda,
fresh as a dewy tea rose in her Parisian toilette,
her hair showing all its character beside Evra's
golden curls, as it showed its sunniness beside
M. d'Isten's dark head, and a new dignity and
repose in her carriage, Evra turned towards her
and seized both hands, scrutinising her an
instant.

'Lily, there is something new come to you.
Don't deny it. You are not the same as you
were. You shall tell me to-night,' and without
allowing Bethesda to speak, she drew the girl's
hand through her arm and led her into the
parlour.

Soon after dinner some callers were announced,
much to Evra's vexation, but they had to be admitted,
and the evening passed very agreeably
to Bethesda in music and conversation. When
the last guest left Mrs. Trescott bade the others
a tired good-night, warning the girls not to talk
too long.

'Leave your confidences until to-morrow
she said ; but when were girls ever known to
follow such wise advice ?

Bethesda would gladly have done so ; she
dreaded the next two hours inexpressibly. Only
the night before had her limbs been weighted by
that faintness which a woman surmounts with a
half-numbed struggle, such as an opium-eater
feels when fearing to succumb to his fatal drug.
So much had happened since then, and here was
another trial to endure.

But tomorrow she would rest ; tomorrow,
and tomorrow, and tomorrow! How many
days were before her ! Not even one had passed
yet, and it seemed aeons of time ; for the long
years to come weighed upon these moments, and
made each seem crushing in its excessive heaviness.
After all, perhaps it was as well that she
should be actively employed, and not be left to
her thoughts.

Presently the two white figures were seated

in the dim parlour, face to face. They were
both silent for a while. Bethesda was waiting,
bracing herself, and slowly succumbing to a
half-remorseful pity. Guinevere was feeling intensely,
sending word after word back from her
lips to seek the one that should not offend and
yet should lead to enlightenment.

At last, with a sudden impulse that shattered
the impotence of her strivings, she laid her handover
Bethesda's, and broke out in a suppressed
and choking' voice :

'Tell me, Lily, what has changed you V

^ Am I changed ? How, dear V

She was no longer apprehensive. She mio-ht
reserve a part of the truth, but this true friend
should know a part also. She felt herself the
stronger of the two. The woman, with her
m}T:iad resources, had replaced the inexperienced
girl.

Meantime Evra answered her questions passionately.


How ? Why, in everything ; in yourself,
Beth. You are not what you were. You turn
the same face to me, but I cannot reach you,
you are so far away. You are unapproachable,'
her voice fell with a hopeless break in it ; * I
shall never reach you. Before, there was a
chance ; now, there is none.'

Her head sank on the arm of the causeuse,
and lay there helpless and forlorn.

Bethesda did not attempt to answer her half-incoherent
utterances, but she laid her hand on
the golden tangle caressingly, and kept silence,
while every echo of the impassioned words died
away. Then, very low, she said :

Dear, I will tell you why I am changed. I have
renounced definitely all thought of marrying.'

But why V asked Evra, straining her eyes to
read the fair face so near her.

I have decided it is best ; why, I cannot say.
I can only tell you this : I go home to think
only of my writing.'

And is this sadness — for you are sad, darling
because you have determined this ? '

Perhaps.'

The little word trembled away into stillness
before another was said. It was a peculiar
faculty that Bethesda possessed of making commonplace
expressions contain the meaning of her
own nature. Guinevere keenly appreciated it.

If you are so sorry she ventured presently ;
but Bethesda interrupted her.

It is done, dear.'

So you are to be a vestal virgin,' resumed
Evra after a pause, a pause that said much. ' It
is what you should be, dear ; you were made for
it. No one person ought to monopolise you.'

I think I have been living towards this from
my cradle,' said Bethesda in a far-away tone.

We are only closer together for this, pet,'
said Evra, bending forward to take Beth in her
arms. But she was prevented.

I am further from all my friends for this ;

VOL. II. M

further from all I have heretofore known. My
work will unite me to all those who work, but
personally '

you will have adoring friends, of whom I
shall be the first interrupted Evra. 'We are
alike in many things ; we must give one another
mutual aid ; we will never marry, but we will
always be friends, and, dear knows, I need one
enough ! '

She showed her relief by immediately beginning
to talk of her own affairs.

She had had a trying time in Milan, but had
been successful. She had met the man to whom
she had once been engaged, and her whole
nature shrank from him in a crawling repulsion.
He had done everything he could to injure her,
and finally climate his insults by offering her
again his hand, which she must accept as the
price of his desisting from an active enmity. She
had of course refused it with scorn, and had
finally triumphed by being engaged for the next

London season. The whole affair had worn upon
her, however, and given her a fierce contempt
for human nature, which made her look upon
Bethesda Hamilton as the one pure, true soul in
the universe.

The remainder of the tete-astute passed easily,
and the sitting broke up in the wee hours, both
relieved if weary. But the following week was
most trying to Bethesda. Evra could not endure
a moment out of her sight. Callers were snubbed,
and all but the most important engagements
broken, because she was determined to extract
every possible drop of companionship out of
these fast-fleeting hours. Bethesda felt an uneasiness
almost amounting to pain in this exigent
intercourse. How was she to conceal her feelings
from so suspicious and passionate an adorer?
For her whole existence inwardly was now absorbed
in longing. The beast did not spring
upon her, but numbed her at times into a deadly
anguish. Misery, too deep and black to be

accounted for, engulfed her in its resistless
waves. Resistance, indeed, was impossible ;
passivity alone was left.

To Evra she accounted for this by physical
fatigue, and begged her not to worry Mrs.
Trescott with it, and Mabel suspected nothing
of it. They saw one another comparatively little,
as she still had some shopping to do peculiar to
London, and, absorbed in her own affairs, fancied
Beth led an easy, enjoyable life, while the hardwork
was kept from her. And Bethesda calledon
her pride to an unlimited extent in seeming
happy before her aunt. She would have considered
it an unforgivable sin to let a suspicion
suggest itself that the new interest in her life
was other than unalloyed delight. Moreover,
this curious black oppression that suffocated herat
times seemed alien and causeless. It came
upon her without reason, and left her likewise.
To lay it to the charge of her rare happiness
would have been the extreme of illogical foolishness

in lier opinion ; but had it been otlierT\dse,
she would not have wavered an instant in thinking
she was happy beyond most.

The only lightings of real relief that came to
these alternations of smothered struo^oie and
smothering despair were when Eene's letters
arrived. They usually came before Evra was up
in the morning, and when the maid appeared,
bearing on her salver the welcome epistle, what
a reveille sounded in Bethesda's ears ! All the
bat-like horrors hastened away, and joyous daylight
reigned supreme.

When I look at the sky luminous with stars,
or at all that God has made the s^Tnbol of His
omnipotence, I see nothing that shines in immensity
as thou dost in my existence. Picture
to thyself a man as he prays before the altar
absorbed in devotion. He is penetrated by God,
and adores Him. In this moment I am en-wrapped
in a similar enthusiasm. I adore God,
but through Bethesda.'

Such words as these came in detached pages
of the letters Beth handed to her aunt. They
were marked 'Bethesda and thus were free
from oversight. From the girl herself half their
sweetness was stolen by this concealment, but
she let it serve her purpose. She laid the blame
all on society. Love was pure ; their love was
pure. Had he been unmarried, every one would
have considered the two eminently suited to
one another, as her aunt often declared ; and
Bethesda had unconsciously fallen into the
position of considering Eene d'Isten virtually
unmarried. Only superficially did society hold
him to Louise. Interiorly society could not
bind him, and here he could give himself to her,
as he did and should. But with the rights of
Louise Bethesda had no thought of interfering.
Just in so far as she recognised them she respected
them. She and Eene would take what
remained, and what made her great happiness ;
no matter what tristesse might lurk beneath, she

was profoundly grateful. For there was in the
deepest earnestness of Bethesda's nature a devotion
which made all sufferings in its service insignificant.
Those who, even through martyrdom,
gained the heights of self-sacrifice in some great
cause, she looked upon with reverence as enviable
heinous.

Mabel Trescott, on the other hand, was very
Tilling to lead an easy life if fate would let her.
The ecstasies of self-abnegation, the delight of
self-development at any cost, did not appeal to
her so much as comfort and quiet everyday
living.

Could there have been a greater contrast ?
One straining after the high, far stars of absolute
truth and love, regardless of her footing; • the
other tapped, Cleopatra-like, in the Oriental
folds of a luxurious ease, which in spite of desires
could not give her content. And it seemed the
very irony of fate that the one to swerve from
rectitude of life was she who had its highest

ideals and strived with earnest purpose to embody
them.

Meanwhile some curious renewals of old experiences
linked the present to the past.

One day a box came to Miss Hamilton from
lier bankers. It was some five feet square, and
marked from Italy. Interest was high as the
four gathered round it, and presently when it
was discovered to be a picture, frame and all,
Mrs. Conover remarked :

My dear, I believe it is a parting gift from
Signor Straora.'

The last wrappers were undone, and the
canvas was lifted out. Bethesda flushed as she
saw it, and was silent ; but the others compensated
by their exclamations.

It was a two-thirds portrait of Bethesda ; and
yet it was not alone a portrait but a type. The
artist seemed to have seized the spirit of past
centuries, whose meaning is constantly recurring
in the individual development of humanity.

There was a suggestion of the most ancient of
civilisations in the straight lines of the chair in
which the figure was seated; the white robe,
disclosing faultless neck and arms, had a broidered
zone around the waist which Isis mio-ht have
worn ; and the hair was so caught that it seemed
precisely the girl's way of arranging it at the
same time that it recalled something beyond and
before the classic.

There was no den^dno; that it was an admirable
picture. Evra went into raptures over it ;
Mrs. Trescott congratulated herself that she had
forwarded its accomplishment, and even Bethesda
recognised herself and something aeons before herself
in it. The eyes, which met the spectators'
fully, yet inscrutable, fascinated her. She found
herself constantly trying to elucidate their
character.

They were yearning, and mysterious, and
haunting in a certain undefined pathos. She
thought if Signor Straora should see her now he

would find that changed ; lier yearning satisfied,
her mystery revealed. Yet was it ? Was there
not something deeper and larger than the most
complete individual life could satisfy ? The connection
of all humanity with this one human
soul made her see herself greater and smaller
than ever before. The marriage of minds was
eternal as the ages and the spirit which vivified
them ; but could any one person absolutely satisfy
another '? She was an atom, and yet she was an
integral part of her race, which are ' as gods ; '
could, then, another atom fill her whole being ?

Here she pushed thought away, as Use majeste.
She would not listen to treason, she asseverated,
but her mind inevitably returned to the same idea.

No one thing could have taken the teacher's
part in this dim time so effectively as this inanimate
canvas ; and Signor Straora, in his loneliness,
and the aching void which had been left
anew by the despatch of this semblance of his
wondrous maiden, would have been content had

he seen Bethesda in some solitary hour, leaning
on the table before his painting, and trying to find
her way, with its help, into the depths of self.

No word came from the sender of this precious
gift, but Bethesda and Mrs. Trescott both wrote
him. Bethesda's letter was a curious betrayal
of the intimacy the picture had established
between the artist and his model : —

I have always wished,' she wrote, ' that I
could have an objective ideal towards which I
could live, and have sometimes wondered if a
portrait depicting my best qualities in their full
development would not inspire me to improvement.
You have seized the very kernel of my
thought, but have presented it in a new way.
You have given me myself, my possibilities, as a
problem to be solved. I shall not be content
until I have explained the mysteries you indicate.
The Sphinx must speak, if but a whisper in my
ear ; and then we shall see if you can find that
answer ! '

Then my soul went ont to him. . . . And where there
had been selfish pride before, was written Rama ; and where
there had been hope, or joy, or beauty, was written Emma; and
where there had been dreams of unknown bliss, was written
Emma ; and where there had been God and heaven, was written
Rama.' — Iliad of the East.

There cannot be a pinch in death more sharp than this is.'

Gymbeline.

One morning, two days before Mrs. Trescott and
Bethesda expected to leave London, a letter came
from Kene to Bethesda. She had incidentally
mentioned in one of her letters that they were
going to hear Patti that evening, and he now
declared that this (?) attraction made it impossible
for him to stay longer in Paris, and that he would
arrive by the night boat, and appear in the box
as a surprise to Madame Gabelle ; but he could

not keep it as a surprise for one who must know
all his actions and divine every ttiouglit.

This letter was handed Bethesda when she
was just awake, and she felt her brain whirl as
she thought he was already in the city ! Tonight
I shall see him ! To-night ! her heart
cried.

Then she bethought herself. He must not
be allowed to stay in the city all day and they
not meet, no indeed ! He had mentioned the
hotel where he would stop, and she would take
the responsibility of asking him to breakfast.
It was a very irregular meal, which each one
generally took at a different time ; she usually
alone. Perhaps this morning she would not be
alone !

After sending' her message she flitted around
like a humming-bird. Every fear and vestige
of oioom had fled. The vap-ue stirrings towards
a new life were charmed into slumber by this
renewal of loved bonds. She had half expected

some such sudden decision on Kene's part. In
this place she would have done the same, and
now her secret impatience gave colour to her
cheeks, and winged her footsteps, as if by moving
quickly even around the house she could
hasten towards him.

When she went into the parlour she ran upto
her portrait and fluttered the letter before
its insistent eyes. ' Now, now you will be satisfied
r she exclaimed.

But, as she waited, she found herself too
often confronted by that questioning glance
which finally turned into a reproach, so that at
last she caught up a shawl, and threw it over
the face.

There!' she exclaimed aloud, and tried to
forget it. ,

The clock must surely be wrong ; she had
said nine, and it was now only a quarter after
eight. No, her own snail-like watch agreed
with it. Now time was so long, and how swift it

would fly if lie were there ! Why couldn't the long
moments be given then, and the short ones now?

She stopped her impatient steps before the
mirror ; did she really look like that haunting
picture ? A slender figure, all in white, with a
crimson rose against the throat : a head exultantly
carried; a fair face, with dark eyes shining
joyously, was what she saw. She could not help
smiling' as she tucked back a wilful lock of hair.
It surely was more golden than usual to-day, because
it knew he liked it so.

Hark ! a carriage ! And stopping here ! She
rushed towards the door to run and meet him,
but the thought of the servants deterred her.
She forced herself to sit doT\Ti and open a book.
The letters were gigantic, and grew dark and
light before her eyes.

She rose as he came in, but she could hardly
stand ; and, as soon as the door closed, he sprang
forward, and bowed before her, and clasped and
kissed the little hands nestling in his.

Then lie led her to a sofa, and they sat
down side by side. Before long — in a moment,
it seemed — the servant returned to announce
breakfast. Bethesda, now restored to quick
thoughtfulness, sent the maid to see if Mrs.
Conover was up, and sped herself to Mrs. Trescott.


Auntie ! auntie 1 ' she cried, and, in her first
wakening, Mabel guessed Eene had come.

You dazzle me like a sunbeam, child. Sundown
and take breakfast. Don't wait for me.
You must both be hungry,' she said, when told
of the surprise.

^ Hungry ! ' exclaimed Beth, but she was off
with childlike impetuosity.

Eene found her, in this sweet excitement,
simply entrancing. The ordinary English breakfast
was a feast for gods waited upon by her.
The little hands fluttered about the china and
silver like self-important birds, and the coffee
that ensued was nectar.

A dozen times he rose when the waiter was
gone on the pretext of passing her things, just
to have her throw back her head and look up at
him, with the clear, joyous, loving soul in her
eyes. The morrow's parting was forgotten in
to-day's reunion.

When they finished Bethesda excused herself
to call Guinevere ; her daily duty, as she explained,
•' and I must not neglect it, for she is
dreadfully jealous.'

And what am I V asked Eene, smiling.

'I don't think you could be jealous of me,'
she replied simply. As he opened the door for
her he bowed reverently. No ; one who held
her heart had no cause to be jealous.

"When Bethesda returned to the parlour Mrs.
Trescott was with Eene. She had thrown off
the shawl from Bethesda's portrait, and Eene
was studying it keenly.

'Well?' said Bethesda, somewhat nervously.

It is not — Esda,' he said, in a rather sharp

VOL. II. N

tone, wliicli softened curiously in pronouncing
lier name.

No, it is not like me now, is it ? ' she cried.

The strange, haunting, rebuking eyes checked
the warm blood in her veins. She looked appealingly
at Eene, and he gave her a warm reassuring
gaze.

I have not seen you so — of late. It is beautiful,
but too solemn for one who is happy. It is
not our sunny Bethesda, and we will hide it away
again.'

The girl gave a sigh of relief as just then Mrs.
Conover came in and welcomed M. d'Isten cordially.
Evra soon joined them also, but her
courteous phrases were a little cool. She at
once proceeded to tuck Bethesda under her arm
with a claiming authority, and Monsieur d'Isten
devoted himself discreetly to Mrs. Trescott.

The ladies were to leave on Wednesday afternoon
to catch the steamer, which sailed on Thursday
too early for the morning train. M. d'Isten

asserted lie should Dot leave them until the last
minute now. They pressed the Conovers to accompany
them also, part of the way at least, but
Mrs. Conover took Bethesda aside, and represented
to her how important it was that Evra
should be in the city, until the plan was reluctantly
relinquished.

Guinevere during these last days was silently
unhappy. She felt hurt, thrown back upon herself,
and bitterly disappointed in this longed-for
visit. She could not have told the reason for
this, and when Bethesda came with the little
caresses that would have been glad to comfort
and please her, Evra would stifle what she then
termed her miserable suspicions, and try to
satisfy her hunger on this meagre food.

The evening before their departure the party
broke up late, and when the others had retired
Bethesda and Guinevere lingered together, talking
not altogether easily for a while. At last Evra
rose abruptly, and bringing a finely-carved box

unlocked it, and showed Bethesda its contents —
her own letters.

^ These are what I have read and re-read, night
after night, child,' she said, with a mournful accent,
^ even since you have been here.'

Bethesda looked at her, dazed and remorseful.
If they only had let her speak, at least of the
literary compact, she might perhaps have made
the change better understood. Neither Eene nor
Mabel had approved, however, and she yielded.
Now she wished she had not, but the affair told
at this juncture would take on undue proportions,
or would tell more than she could tell, for her
secrets were entwined with another's, and she
must guard his honour even more carefully than
her own.

So she said nothing. In a moment the cover
fell, and Guinevere turned the key, and moved
to go.

Bethesda sprang after her. She could not
endure this silence. She laid her hands on the

tall shoulders before her and lifted her face in the
full blaze of the chandelier.

Evra/ she said, * do you trust me 1 '

• Next to God was the solemn reply.

Then listen spoke Bethesda breathlessly.
I cannot tell you what has changed me ; that I
am changed you quickly discovered, but that is
something of which I dare not speak. I ask you
to rest in this : I am as true to you as I ever was ;
I am no more unworthy your love than I always
have been. Love me, Evra, dear, and don't be
afraid that there is not a large, warm place in my
heart for you, whatever its changes.'

Her eyes were deep, and shining with a deeper
purpose. Evra's were swimming in tears.

I do believe you,' she said, winding her arms
around the girl. ' I believe you and love you ;
how much, God only knows.'

The hours came in swift succession. Hardly
had the good-nights been said, it seemed, than the
good-mornings were to say. The two girls went

into the parlour the next morning arm-in-arm.
There was a closer feeling between them than at
any time since they had parted in Florence, but
they were both subdued. Guinevere was oppressed
by the sense of the long separation to come, and
Bethesda was insensibly allowing the undercurrent
of her life, during this fortnight, to come to the
light of recognition. All this was only the overture
— the overture where the wailing sorrow to
come is foretold, and the mind prepared for a
tragedy.

Alas, only until tomorrow !

As they waited for the train in the station
Guinevere held her Lily with a painful grasp ; and
when they were off the last thing Bethesda saw
was a pale face set in golden curls, whose features
were drawn with pain. It haunted her for long,
with a dim sense of being unworthy of such affection.
But the next farewell ?

When they reached Liverpool they found
Marcott, who had been engaged by the ladies for

J

their American home, had secured them pleasant
rooms, and M. d'Isten outdid himself in surrounding;
the ladies with delicate attentions. The fact
that he had them once more to himself was evidently
satisfactory to him.

To Bethesda, too, it was a rest, and when
presently Eene proposed reading aloud to them,
nothing could seem to have been more happily
chosen, as it suited the fatigued indolence of Mrs.
Trescott as well as Bethesda.

The piece he had selected was a eulogy of
women ; sincere and ardently poetical, and he
read it with fervour. Instances of devotion were
gathered from every land, and as they were told
Bethesda felt the power to do each one. Still she
felt strangely within herself the capacity of being
more utterly filled. She wished the thought of
Eene to fill every recess, each small and large
space in her soul, as air would any vacancy, and
she was perplexed that her love did not make it so.

But of one things she was sure ; she was inseparably

bound to him, and through life and
eternity nothing but unworthiness could separate
them.

He looked up from his book as she thought
this, and found Bethesda's eyes shining on him
with a glory of surrender. She had risen in the
last few moments, and now stood by the mantel,
leaning upon it. As she met his eyes he sprang
to his feet and would have thrown himself at hers,
had they been alone. As it was he turned away
abruptly to regain his startled self-control.

Why should she feel differently to him to-night
than ever before ? he asked himself. Why should
she now, just now, when they were about to part,
melt the incomparable pearls of her nature in one
peerless draught, and offer it to him with such
imperial grace ?

Why, indeed, except just because they were
about to part, and the woman's heart cried passionately
:

These are the last moments ; we may never

see each other more. Let our spirits meet now
while they may.'

In her rapture, in her almost agonised rapture,
she could have rejoiced had there been some
supreme way in which she could prove her love
and so die. Shrink from what other women have
done ? Rather, their acts were miserably petty ;
yet she envied them ! They could at least prove
their love to all the world, but she must seal her
lips, and hide what she would have been proud
to proclaim to every creature. And their eyes
meeting, both realised at this moment that death
would be the dearest boon of life.

They went on board early the next day, and
as Eene felt the little quiver of Esda's hand he
said cheerily :

The next time I am on an ocean steamer will
be coming to you. You can rest in my coming.'

And Esda clung closer to his arm, resting on
the present, in any case, whatever she might do
on the future.

The two were constantly together ; they promenaded
the deck arm-in-arm, and talked and
laughed quite as if a week were still before them,
only in Bethesda's mind there was that half-insane,
half numbed sense that soon she would
awake with the grip of a monster agony
at her heart. She said nothing of it, however,
and her conversation and appearance were
as bright and sunny as the rippling abysses of
the sea.

Eene did not surmise what she felt, for he felt
nothing of the kind. Last night's anguish had
passed for him, and the future, if not all sunshine,
had never looked so surely happy to him as now.
He could look forward to tens and twenties of
years, and see that same light shining on his
existence still, that same immutable tenderness
permeating his being, and rendering everything
it touched beautiful and sweet. He was a man
of strong habits, and the wearisomeness of continuity
was never to be feared with him ; rather.

the longer lie possessed a thing the more attached
he became to it. And there was a rarity about
Bethesda Hamilton which made him well aware
he should never find her equal ; indeed, had he
not been seeking her in vain for thirty years ?
He had never spoken a truer word than when he
said she completed his existence.

This completeness, too, was not disturbed by
what he considered the inevitable fate of their
walking their paths separately, divided even by
the sea. For he was not a dishonourable man.
Brought up in the surroundings and traditions of
his country, such a passionate amitie as this had
become was, to his conscience, no sin. It was
more than excusable, it was justifiable, even
praiseworthy. He occupied precisely the same
position to his ^-ife that he had done for years,
and one she had deliberately chosen ; he stoned
no one. Bethesda was entirely free ; he claimed
nothing from her. What she gave he accepted
as the bounty of a generous heart ; what he gave

to her was, as lie had told him, and he was glad
to believe, her greatest joy.

That she should not marry could not, with his
experience, seem any great sacrifice, and she
would not be lonely with her sister, her writing,
and the knowledge that he was always devoted
to her. The whole matter seemed to him inalienably
settled. ; it could not be altered now ; no
one could interfere. They had agreed together
that they should not take any one's word but
each other's in regard to their relations, and
thus all misunderstandings were definitely precluded.


They were so engrossed with one another that
they noticed no one on board, although most of
the accumulating six hundred souls who weighted
the vessel had seen and commented on them. No
wonder that both thought Mrs. Trescott guessed
their open secret when outsiders saw through it
at a glance. No wonder, either, that they thought
she did not disapprove when she left them alone

as much as possible, while appearing as affectionate
to both as she had ever been.

Eene was, perhaps, more guarded than Bethesda,
but only because he thought Madame
Gabelle might not care to acknowledge what she
did not mind countenancing indirectly, — and
then he understood her to think also, that time
and absence would change all this, and that she
was willing; to rest in this security.

He was, too. He smiled to think how harmless
these enemies of mankind would be to him
and Esda.

A shrill whistle blew. Rene, with Bethesda
clinoino- closer and closer to his arm, went to
inquire when the fatal moment would arrive.

All friends leave immediately ! Ship sails in
five minutes,' answered the officer.

They hastened to the lower deck, and Eene
kissed Mrs. Trescott's gloved hands without a
word. Then he caught Bethesda s, from which
she had drawn the glove, and put the soft palm

over lips and eyes. Only an instant, but during
it they both blanched terribly. With one foot
on the gangway, and still holding her hand in
his unbreakable clasp, he waited until the last
person had left. Then he sprang to the little
deck below, and the two stood gazing at one
another with dry eyes, while the distance widened
slowly, implacably, then swifter and swifter, until
they were lost to sight.

And then, weak heart, .
Know that the soul which breathes immortal breath,
Stronger than joy, stronger than grief, must be.
And trample both, to reach, God, to Thee ! '

IsA Blade.

To train people to be men by keeping them children, to
train people to be free except by making them free, by letting
them bear the consequences of their sins and mistakes, is seen
to be more and more of an impossibility. What does the whole
history of the world mean, but that it is impossible, — even to
God V

Of all outward experiences, there is nothing like
a sea-voyage to wrench one from old associations
and habits of life. The long silence of every
friend ; the weary, dreary passage, where one is
conscious that each turn of the screw takes one
farther from what one loves, and fastens the
distance with inevitable decision, — this is a
close enough s^onbol of death : and another land,
bearing a general similarity to the past, yet with
every part changed, is recognisable as our idea
of what a new life may be.

VOL. II.

Bethesda found this true as lie went up on
deck, just at dawn, the morning they reached
New York. A still, calm gloom environed the
ship, allowing faint outlines of the low hills to
be seen. They had cast anchor, and were waiting
for daylight to steam into dock. The cessation
of sound and movement had given her a
dizzy sensation, after the long rocking and
straining of the vessel, and she had come
upstairs to see if the fresh air would not dissipate
it. What a voyage it had been! Not
stormy in the elements ; the trip had, on the
contrary, been a very calm and swift one ; but
what a battlefield of murderous spiritual conflict
this ship represented 1 In every corner she saw
the face of some dead hope, the ghost of some
ghastly agony.

When she had left Europe, and watched
Kene's figure grow less and less as distance
widened between them, she had at least felt
secure of a mental unity which abolished space.

They were to write frequently and thus would
be still held together by a palpable means of
communication. But now, alas ! she knew the
letter below, ready to be mailed, was the last
she would write him for six months ; perhaps
the last open-hearted one she would ever write
him.

This bitter change had been brought about
ostensibly by Mrs. Trescott. She had only
waited for Beth to rouse herself from what was
more a swoon than a slumber into which she had
fallen on the day they left England, to accuse
her of deceit in concealing from her trusting
aunt her own knowledge that she loved Eene
d' 1st en.

The fact that both the man and woman knew
it had flashed upon Mabel during that last, hard
good-bye, and she had been thinking of it, with
a cumulative rancour, while Bethesda lay for
hours wan and half lifeless before her.

She had failed in action, she had trusted too

much, she told herself ; she would not so fail or
trust asrain. This affair must be seen in its true
light at all hazards. She would use her authority
as a knife, if need were. ' If thine eye offend
thee, pluck it out,' was one of her favourite
pieces of advice. She did not notice that the
Bible command is couched in such language that
it makes the plucking out of an offending eye a
matter of self-subjection, of free-will, not of compulsion.
She thought it emphatically her duty
to pluck out her niece's organ of sight, so
dimmed and unreliable was it, and then the
girl might lend herself more docilely to her
aunt's guidance, which was the only road to
salvation out of this swamp of evil into which
Beth had sunk.

Where did this begin ? ' she had broken out
abruptly one day. ' In London ? In Paris ?
Have you deceived me for weeks, and if so, how
far ? Oh, Beth ! am I awake, or in a nightmare,
that I can say such things and you not deny

them ? Do you know that he is married, married,
I say, and do you know nothing of the
world ? Heavens, assure me of something, Beth,
or I shall go mad 1 '

Of what do you accuse me?' said Bethesda.
Her fissure was drawn to its full height, and her
brows were a single tense line above eyes whose
expression made even Mabel Trescott speechless.

Of nothing, nothing,' she said at last
brokenly. ' I only ask you, what am I to
believe ? '

Bethesda felt a sentiment of pity and self-rebuke
begin to dilute her indication. She

o o

remained silent a few moments, thinking fast.
Eene and she had agreed together that if concealment
was not wrong, deception was, and now
she ought no longer to remain silent. Since Mrs.
Trescott had gone so far beyond the truth, Bethesda
decided that it was best for all concerned
that she should be frank.

She was so ; completely as far as facts were

concerned, and there was a sense of freedom and
upright defiance in speaking openly of what it
had been a trial to her to conceal, even passively.
She had consented to keep silent from motives of
expediency alone, not from any sense of shame
or guilt. She told her aunt, indeed, that she
would be proud to have the angels in heaven
look at her connection with Eene, and felt assured
they would not disapprove. It was only
the pettiness and heartiness of this world which
had made them see fit not to proclaim it on the
house-tops, if need were.

Mrs. Trescott listened sombrely. She knew
Beth was speaking the truth. She saw she was
ignorant as to the wrong of this, that her conscience
was perverted ; but her darling was still
innocent and pure. It was an error, a misapprehension,
into which she had been unconsciously
led, perhaps by an unconscious hand. The lofty
tone in which Beth mentioned Eene impressed
Mabel with an involuntary sense of his worthiness,

which she was the more ready to accept
from not believing it possible she could have
been so mistaken in her confidence in him.

It is a hideous wrong,' she said, when Bethesda
had finished. ' I cannot understand your
lack of perception, still less his. But that it is
only blindness I see. You must be guided by
me now : it is your only safety. I will go and
think about it. The next step may be into an
abyss or to safety.'

sirs. Trescott left her, and Bethesda had
leaned ag-ain't the railing; at the stern, and
watched the seething waves, with thoughts which
were incoherent and restless and perturbed as
they. The pristine clearness of her mind was
beaten to an opaque mass by the repeated shocks
of circumstance against emotion. It seemed to her
that the whirling, eddying, foaming track would
deafen her with its conflict ; and yet she must be
quick to hear both the voices within and without,
and to distinguish which edicts were the right.

Something within her was meantime working
slowly, laboriously, to an unseen end. It was as
if her heart were a besieged garrison, and the
dull thud of toilers in an underground mine
should half reach her ear. Every sense must
be on the alert, and yet she knew not which way
to look for danger. As such a garrison would,
however, visit every foot of wall and tower to
discover any hidden weakness, so she visited the
fortifications built around her heart, and was
forced to admit that there were many places not
impregnable.

Once conscious of this, she hastened to take
treacherous conscience from the side of her foes
by writing to Eene, and expressing her dissatisfaction
in remembering their actions during the
last days they were together.

I believe you felt this as well as I,' she
wrote. ' You did not find me keeping you on a
high plane as you would have desired me ideally
to have done. I should have had clearer period



caption, and been less blinded by emotion. I
was, on the contrary, less clear-sighted than you.
And I believe, deep in your mind, you blame me
for it, as you should. Once I said to you — do
you remember ? — that we were not to forgive
any evil, even to one another, until the wrongdoing
had been repented. Now I repeat it, Eene.
You must not forgive me, I must not forgive
you, until we have proved our repentance for the
errors we have committed.'

It was when she had just finished writing this
that Marcott brought her a message from Mrs.
Trescott, who wished to see her downstairs.
When she reached the close state - room she
found Mabel sitting on the sofa with a portentous
face. She made place for Bethesda beside her,
and tried to take her hand. The girl evaded it.
There was something in her aunt's manner which
proved caresses only sugar-plums to buy some
desired action, and Beth proudly resented being
treated in so childish a manner.

You wanted me ? ' she said.

Mabel bent forward and looked in Beth's face,
while she tried to broach the subject in an easier
manner. But Bethesda was on the defensive, and
reiterated her question briefly.

Yes, I did want you ; I do want you,' then
returned Mabel ; ^ I am yearning to do for you.'

To do what ? ' asked Bethesda.

Well, I will tell you,' began her aunt, and
stopped.

Bethesda waited, with clear observant eyes
on her companion's face.

Beth,' commenced Mabel again, this time in
hurried accents, ' you have often said you loved
me, that you would like some way to prove your
affection and gratitude to me. Now I ask you
for the greatest proof you can give.' She waited
a moment, with one of those impressive pauses
which often italicise silence as well as speech.
Then she went on : ' This between you and Eene
seems dreadfully wrong to me ; absolutely wicked.

The past we cannot alter, but for the future you
are responsible. You cannot judge clearly now,
so I ask you for one year not to write to Kene,
to let entire silence reign between you ; and
this, darling, because of your love for me.'

Bethesda sat staring at her, wounded, stunned.
How could she thus destroy for ever, perhaps, the
happiness of two lives ? And yet the long love
for her aunt, the keen desire to prove herself not
wanting in this crucial test, made her heart bleed
on every side.

She could not speak at all for a while, and
Mabel lavished caresses on her with a fondness
not free from terror.

Go away, please,' said Bethesda at last, with
unconscious authority ; ' I must have a chance to
think.' And Mrs. Trescott, taken aback, found
herself to her own surprise obedient.

Presently Bethesda had slipped quietly up on
deck and told Marcott to bring her portfolio without
disturbing Mrs. Trescott. The man obeyed

with a respectful solicitude which always reminded
her of Eene. He had told her that
Marcott had been a faithful retainer of his, and at
his request she had said no one else should know
it. Now she felt him an innocent link with the
past, and it comforted her to think that through
Marcott's devotion to Rene he was quick in observance
of her own wishes.

After a little the fresh wind, the strong air,
and salt expanse cleared the blurring mist of
incapacity which had shrouded her mind, and
she seemed to have a wide gray level in it,
similar to that spreading beneath and around
her. A sunbeam would have flawed it ; a bird's
wing would have hurt it ; a ship would have
destroyed it. In the lifeless calm she thought it
out.

From their arrival in America until the New
Year she would sacrifice to her aunt all communication
with Rene. This would assure Aunt Mabel
of her deep devotion, and would serve the same

purpose that a longer probation would ; for what
questions could not one solve in six interminable
months ? And she acknowledged there were
doubts to be solved ; she told Kene so.

^ During these months,' she wrote, ' we are to
earnestly try to judge our past dispassionately,
and see the light of truth on our future. This I
believe we equally wish to do. You, no more
than I, would live wilfully in the dark, covering
our eyes from the sunlight. Our positions towards
one another are too delicate for any but elevated
minds to understand ; should we not make it a
rule to command their respect '? Can we afford
to lose one atom of self-respect, or respect for each
other ? I am sure you will answer these questions
as I do. The only real question is : Where is
the wrong ? I cannot decide. I am sure of
nothing, except our mutual confidence, which is
as this ship bearing us across a sea of waves, the
only thing steadfast on the tumultuous ocean.
It does not lose its integrity and solidity, no

matter how it is rocked; and I believe it will
bear us safely to port at last.'

She put away the sheet, and went with a light
firm step to her aunt's side.

I have decided she said.

Mrs. Trescott glanced quickly into the pale
face, whose dark eyes shone starry with self-conquest.


I knew you would do right ! ' she exclaimed,
catching Beth's hand and kissing it rapturously.
^ I knew you would do as I said.'
^ Yes,' said Bethesda in a low clear tone. ' I
have told Eene that he must not write me, after
his answer to this letter, until the first of next
January. Neither shall I write to him until then,
after we reach America.'

But that is only half as long as I asked,' said
Mabel. Her clasp on Beth's hand loosened, and
Miss Hamilton drew it quite away as she replied
with steady determination :

It is all I can give ; and it is long enough for

anything you can desire. Do you remember,
Aunt Mabel, that it is only four days since we
left Eene 1 ' She paused a moment to collect her
strength for the next words. ^ You must know,'
she said then, ' that it seems to me a cruel think;
that you have asked ; unnecessary, and destructive,
perhaps, of two lives' happiness. I tell you
this plainly, auntie, because I wish you to realise
that I do as you ask me, even when it is hardest.'

Mabel kissed her hand again, and said
fondly :

I do see you love me, darling, and I think
you are a very noble woman. But it is a frightfully
short time, only six months. Won't you
make it the year, dear? It is not much, — a
year in a young life like yours.'

It is not much, did you say ? ' asked Bethesda,
in an incredulous tone.

No ; if there were objections to a marriage,
a daughter would always wait a year, and think
how much worse this is ! *

I have given you a proof of my love written
in my heart's blood,' said Bethesda, * and you
consider it nothing ! I can do no more, and
what I have done is useless.'

Then, feeling the despairing inutility of more
words, she went away.

It was this which made the voyage so hard.
No concession brought peace, but, on the contrary,
Mrs. Trescott's appetite seemed to grow
with what it fed upon. She ceaselessly encroached.
Bethesda was thrown to and fro,
beaten by Mrs. Trescott's ever-unsatisfied demands,
until she felt herself, and all about
her, dividing, and shattering, and writhing into
new forms, which were no sooner made than
destroyed.

If she could only have been left to herself
these days the constant incursion of new
thoughts, springing from the very nature of her
relation to Eene, would have enlightened her
without arousing resistance. But Mabel was

indefatigable in her efforts to pluck out lier
niece's offending eye, until at last Bethesda
barricaded herself from assault by announcing
that she would make no more concessions whatsoever,
and that what her aunt wished must be
asked of Eene, not of her. Nothing would stir
her from this position, and Mabel finally desisted,
to throw her whole strength into a letter
to Eene, urging him, by his knowledge of the
world, his generosity, his love itself, to accord
the year's silence which Beth had refused.

The evening before reaching port Bethesda
had T\Titten him with a heart-wrung abandon,
realising that it was her last opportunity of
speaking to him freely for many dreary months ;
possibly, just possibly, for ever.

We are alone in the world together,' she
wrote. ' We are outside the limits of society,
and our only aim should be to keep our conscience
free, our lives noble. Eemember, Eene,
I do not think it any gift of mine, that you hold

VOL. II. P

my faith ; I do not give it, it is yours. Nothing
can alter this fact. You are to remember it through
all these months, — to begin, for me, so soon ! '

It was this poignant sense of last moments
which had been all through their peculiar
temptation. The consequences of present acts
seemed to be cut off short by the iron hand of
circumstance, which, from the first, they knew
must inexorably separate them. Had it not
been for these outward compulsion Bethesda
would have more quickly recognised the importance
of self-subjection. She was now becoming
dimly conscious, through suffering, that freewill,
rightly trained, is the aim of the whole
discipline of life.

The day grew silently around her as she
stood this last morning on the upper deck,
thinking of what the voyage had brought her,
and what it had taken away. A deep purple,
lightening to amethyst and dull gold, then
flushing to a soft rose, replaced the grayness of

the east. The responsive waters brightened
into opaline hues, with fire gleaming under the
pearly ripples. The sky grew more and more
brilliant ; a few floating clouds were touched
into flame, and the water answered with iridescent
fervour. Finally, a golden hand of
dazzling glory curved itself from the horizon
to the zenith, while the water, thrilled to
ecstasy, ran quivering towards the shore of the
New World. Another instant, and, with a burst
of splendour which thrilled like an organ peal
through every nerve, the sun rose and beat
down Bethesda's eyes with its shining.

Presently they were in sight of the city,
sparkling in the level sunbeams, where, Bethesda
knew, Margaret was awaiting them ; asleep,
probably, and yet impatient for their arrival.

Already the new protecting element was
coming' into her life as she thought of the fair-haired
sister, who had always been so dear to
her, and now, in her innocence and devotion,

peculiarly appealed to Bethesda's lacerated heart.
It pacified her to remember that Margaret knew
nothing of these last weeks of intense passionate
life. The story of even the literary compact
with Eene had been reserved until they should
meet face to face, and now, perhaps, it would
never be told. Ah, well, it would be restful to
be with some one who did not know too much ;
it would be good, and sweet, and comforting.
Margaret would trust her ; Margaret could trust
her. There should be no doubt of that.

What a thrill of familiar tenderness stirred
Bethesda's heart as she espied her sister and
Aunt Agatha actually on the pier, in spite of
the early hour I It was totally unlike any of
the emotions which had made her vital existence
of late. It was the warmth of home affections
and home knowledge ; of the unspoken communion
of memories, and of temperaments long
accustomed to one another. It was simply, and
all, of a family, and a sister, and a native land.

They went ashore, and Margaret cried a little
as she held Beth fast, and Bethesda tranquillised
her with her own eyes moist. Agatha Stanhope
meantime saw that the girl had been living
ahead of her strength, and that she had been
experiencing far more than a mere year would
account for, and she embraced her with a supporting
tenderness. Then they all went off
to see about the luggage, and, finally, to the
hotel.

You are to rest here until tomorrow evening,
when we will go home,' said Agatha, with
her usual decision and searching glances at everyone
in turn. She saw now what made her
address Mabel directly. 'You will like to
come ? You have no plans to conflict with this ?
I have promised myself that we would make one
another's acquaintance there, and the girls would
console themselves for their long separation.'

The rupture between the elder sisters had
been bridged over roughly, leaving the chasm

yawning beneath, but making it possible for
them to meet in apparent amity. An affection
of habit bad mingled with the veering tendency
of Mabel's mind to effect this, while with Agatha
love and confidence were strong enough to arch
over many fissures, and unite even deeply-divided
lands. Moreover, she could with difficulty
believe that the strange stream between
her and Mabel would not fade away like a
mirage as soon as nearness should prove its
existence or unreality. It would therefore be
hard to describe the keenness of her disappointment
in seeing the answering chill in Mabel's
manner.

'It is very kind of you to ask us to your
house,' she began now, formally. 'I supposed

you had already left S . Isn't it terribly

hot there ? I expected to go somewhere on the
coast, the girls and I, and that you and Ealeigh
would, perhaps, join us later. But it was very
good of you to come on here, if you were intending;

to go light back she added, with a sudden
impulse, and one of her warm smiles.

I wished to see you replied Agatha, with
some quiet emphasis. ^ I think you will be
quite comfortable with me for a week, or a
month as far as that goes. I, of course, stay
there as honos as Raleigh does. But I would not
urge you ; you must do just as you prefer.'

She stood with a certain royalty in her carriage
and a keen light in her eyes during the
instant's silence which followed. Bethesda was
about to speak, but was silenced by a flying
glance from Mrs. Stanhope. This was a matter
between her and her sister ; she was sure of
the girls.

Well, thank you, perhaps it will be best,'
said Mabel, after that eloquent pause. Agatha
turned with a sigh of relief and a quick gentleness
to Bethesda.

What do you say ? '

I don't need to speak,' replied Beth, with a

dainty caress. ' You know how glad I am to be
with you

Mrs. Trescott moved away with some impatience.


Beth ought to rest now she said abruptly ;
and they all adjourned to their rooms. Mrs.
Stanhope went around softly after the girls were
on the bed, adjusting the blinds and closing the
mosquito bars, and petting them with that unobtrusive
care which proves the habit of consideration
for others. It was new and charming
to Bethesda, and she found herself, to her own
surprise, going to sleep more easily than for
weeks. The tender serenity of Mrs. Stanhope's
face was always before her, and in her arms
nestled Margaret, softly breathing. As the fair
head rose and fell on Bethesda's breast she felt
as if she had taken refuge in a sanctuary, a
divine stronghold where no enemy could reach
to injure her. She was protected by the sweet
power of an undoubted innocence.

The great moral combat between human life
And each human soul must be single. Tbe strife
None may share, though by all its results may be known,
When the soul arms for battle, she goes forth alone.'

Owen Meredith.

To foster and develop good in all its forms is his vocation.'

KuNO Fischer.

The next evening they started for S . Their

party was a genial and cosy one. Mrs. Stanhope
had travelled so much that the cars had become
a second home to her, and she knew how to make
the porters and officials as attentive as her own
domestics would have been.

Poor Marcott, who was quite confused and
dazed by all this new life and strange customs,
was useless, and felt himself so ; and Bethesda,
with a smile, dismissed him to his own car.

What did you bring him home for ? ' asked
Margaret ; and Agatha remarked :

I should not have been surprised at it in
Mabel ; she is so foreign I have difficulty in
understanding: her '

But, Agatha ! ' remonstrated Mrs. Trescott.

It's true asseverated Mrs. Stanhope, ' and I
should have thought it quite fitting had you
brought home a French servant ; but I hear it
was Beth's idea.'

Yes ; she came back from here full of the
notion. She thought it would be quite distingue
to have a garçon, and was looking out
for one in Italy, but we found none. There was
one creature there who would be just a pleasure
to have in the room, a perfect Adonis, you know,
but I told Beth it would never do. He couldn't
be kept in his position here, you see ; he would
have become insufferably vain. You don't see
such handsome men in America as in Europe,
especially Southern Europe, and, en revanche,

sou see nowhere such pretty women as in
America. Mafoi ! what a number of them there
are ! ^Vhy, at the AVinclsor, there were at least
half a dozen girls who would be stared at from
every corner on the Continent, and here they
seem to be considered nothings remarkable. A
propos, how do you think Beth is looking?'

A sudden anxiety betrayed itself in her
words as she turned to look at her sister, who
had been studying her Quietly.

Beth is not well,' said Agatha gravely ; ' she
seems worn and harassed. She is not looking
nearly so well as you do. The voyage must have
agreed with you.'

Hum ! And vet I have had all the hardwork
while Beth was resting' in London. But she

o

is tired now. Travelling fatigues her. Why,
how English this looks ! ' she exclaimed, breaking
off from her former speech abruptly.

They were going up the Hudson Ever, and
the davlio'ht was yet sufficient to show them the

beautiful banks covered with parks and country
seats. Mabel leaned across the car to attract
the girls' attention.

'Wouldn't you like to live somewhere herein
the summer ^ It would remind you, Beth,
of Mrs. Eandleth; and Clarence might come
some time to row you up and down the Hudson
instead of the Thames.'

He never did that, and I fancy he never will
this,' replied Bethesda indifferently.

Mrs. Stanhope noted the tone. She and Margaret
had heard of this Clarence, and Agatha was
seeking a reason for Beth's change. It evidently
was not here.

But wouldn't you like a summer place here,
even without that inducement ? ' insisted Mabel.
There ! that house, par exemple. Shall we
take it, girls *? '

I had rather not talk about plans now,' said
Bethesda. ' Aunt Agatha told us to rest first,
and I feel like obeying her.'

Lie leaned back in her seat wearily, and the
loving eyes of Margaret were quick to discover
it, and to see the look of troubled sadness which
replaced all other expression in Bethesda's face
during any lull of interest. There was something
here which Margaret would leave to time
to explain, or would trust to Beth without explanation.
She was one of those with whom
absolute confidence is the kernel of love.

All night and the following day they sped
on through the strangely familiar land. They
talked much, exchanging experiences — the lighter
ones — telling anecdotes of travel and home life ;
of friends to one only, or old mutual acquaintances
; of new thoughts ; of memories ; in fine,
enjoying that renewal of old associations with
congenial friends, and gauging their development,
which is, to sensitive minds, a fragrant delight.

But Bethesda felt herself, at times, a stranger
here. It was as if she had come with a carefully-stored
memory of unimportant personal events,

and the names of friends, to foist herself on them
as a Bethesda Hamilton they once knew. Then,
suddenly, shaming this alienation, would come a
flood of tenderness, of affection, of gratitude to
these dear ones, and she would give them some
mute caress as an apology, or a frank acknowledgment
of her feeling ; at least to Mrs. Stanhope.


It will come back,' said Agatha once. ' We
must try to be patient, my dear ; then some day,
perhaps, these years that have intervened will
be as strange to you as this is now.'

Oh no I ' exclaimed Bethesda, with a startled
shrinking ; 'that could not be.'

Perhaps not,' replied Agatha, wisely not insisting.
' You are different than you were last
year, Beth. America did not seem so unfamiliar
to you then, and yet you had been longer without
seeing it.'

I know I have changed, Aunt Agatha. I am
trying to find my way to the why of it all,' she

went on uncertainly. ' I think it began when I
came home last year ; that is the way it looks tome
now. Somehow, it all disappointed me ; not
you, dear auntie, nor Margaret, nor anything
about you, which, indeed, delighted me as much
as the rest dissatisfied me. I suppose I had
some foolish ideal of my country which was
merely a girlish notion ; but the current of
American life was not as pure and simple as I
had expected to find it. It had lost its ]Pristine
clearness, and yet had not reached the stage of
filtering' and so what I saw was turbid, I thought :
at any rate, distasteful. Probably my view was
very superficial and inappreciative. I have too
much faith in America not to believe it was my
mistake, but it influenced me strongly. I went
back to Europe really feeling that was more
natural to me than America, that it was to
Europe I belonged. I think — I think that eras
where it began.'

She ended more undecidedly than she had

commenced, and looked with a certain appeal at
Mrs. Stanhope's reliable face. It would inspire
confidence in any one ; every line and curve of it,
as of her mind, was nobly proportioned, so that
one felt no pettiness obscured her judgment or
interfered with her large charity. She was
pre-eminently one who helped others to help
themselves, and Bethesda needed such assistance
sorely then.

The silence grew quite long, however, before
Agatha spoke.

I was thinking of your mother,' she said then.
You are like her in many ways. I remember
when you were born your eyes went following
the light around the room as soon as they opened.
I told her of it, and she said : " I trust my little
daughter will always follow the light." They
were almost the last words she said.'

Mrs. Stanhope spoke with an undertone of
feeling and comprehension which made the familiar
story take on a startling meaning to Bethesda's

seeking mind. Of course Aunt Mabel had

often told it to her, but now ■ Why, it was

like a voice from Heaven, and that voice a
mother's !

Presently Agatha began talking easily on
casual subjects, not seeming to notice Bethesda's
silence. Her conversation was always interesting,
and generally witty and merry ; but there
was not a sentence she uttered, no matter how
light, which did not convey to a ready mind
some result of penetration or trait of character, or
give one an idea as a clue to the problems which
abound in life. She studied every one she met,
knowing human nature too well to 'classify'
individuals — that odious habit which is born of
ignorance and breeds all manner of misunderstandings
— and thus had been developed in hera
discriminating love of humanity which constantly
tended towards a wise development of
those around her, and especially of reason and
true freedom.

VOL. II. Q

Bethesda found herself often shrinking involuntarily
from remarks which made gashes in her
past, to let the light of truth shine through ; but
there also came an invigoration and strength
such as is gained from bitter tonics, which makes
one willing to drink deep for the health gained.
And there was no dear disease to which Bethesda
Hamilton clung when she recognised it as such.
The only thing necessary to renouncement was
to convince her that what she felt was disease,
and this was often hard to do.

She was being subjected now, however, to a
new alchemy, and the nights were the only time
when she found herself, as it were, and fused the
different metals of her past and present together.
It would have been difficult to accomplish this
except for the ardent and ceaseless flame of her
devotion to Eene. The fidelity of her nature to one
who had been acknowledged supreme to her was asa
golden chain on which her life's incidental beads
were strung to make — yes, it should be so — a rosary.

Lying in lier berth with the window-curtain
drawn back, and all dark and silent in the car,
she seemed to herself like a shadow fleeing
through space and gazing down on her future
life. It was glorious moonlight, and the prairies
now spread about her with the same long lines
as had done the sea. The wide grassy billows
undulating away to the horizon, where rarely a
tree disturbed its low line ; occasionally a pond
covered with water-lilies, the white blossoms like
stars, amid which the moon reflected itself in the
still depths ; and over and around all that air
which to one new from Europe seems to allow no
illusion of atmosphere to heighten effect, but
shows abruptly each object, even in the moonlight,
and makes one realise constantly that one
is in a different land.

And it is different,' thought Bethesda, with
the earnestness of resolve. ' My life now will belike
these prairies ; monotonous, yet not petty,
from the very extent of their monotony ; rolling

in grass and flower-covered curves to the unseen
distance, with an atmosphere granting no enchantment,
only clear following of one's path of
duty ; and above — may they always be reflected
among the lilies ! — a pure ambition, and the sky
• The moon crossed the cloudless heavens, while
the fleeting scene repeated itself for mile after
mile. It shone on Bethesda with a white radiance,
and she welcomed it with a smile. It was
the same moon which, as a crescent, she had
pointed out to Eene. She thought of what she
had told him he might remember, and that now
its whole surface was resplendent in the light of
the sun.

In the morning they reached S . Ealeigh

Stanhope was at the station to meet them, and
welcomed them with hearty cordiality. The
carriage was waiting, and Marcott climbed to the
driver's seat, while Mr. Stanhope stood a moment
at the door with uncovered head, and the upright,
manly attitude Bethesda had always admired.

I can't go home with you he was saying,
but Agatha will take better care of you than I
could, and will make you welcome to our house
for as long as we can prevail upon you to stay.
Good morning, ladies. Home, Jessup.'

He waited on the curbstone until they had
rolled off. ' What hungry eyes that girl has ! '
he said to himself, as he turned and walked
towards his office. He was usually on the alert
when in town, but to-day two or three acquaintances
passed him without recognition. ' She has
come to the right place for food ; my wife will
give it to her,' he finally soliloquised, and with
this confidence let the haunting face slip from
his mind, and soon was engrossed in affairs.

The home to which the wanderers were welcomed
was a beautiful house, situated on the
best corner of a fashionable street. One could
always be sure that whatever Raleigh Stanhope
possessed was excellent. It was a double house,
planned by Agatha, with spacious rooms and few

stairs, and the large hall, shadowy, with a stained-glass
window at the division of the staircase, was
its chef dJceuvre. There were a few fine pictures
and statues against a chocolate-coloured wall, and
the wood work was handsomely carved. Nothing
about the house was common. The ornaments
were elegant and of pronounced value, but never
showy ; while each apartment presented an aspect
distinctively handsome and stately. Mrs. Trescott
thought it a little cold and stiff; but Bethesda
delighted in the house, and found it eminently
characteristic of its owners. One could see at a
glance that money or treasure of any kind was a
means, not an end, in this household, and that
an intelligent generosity held the purse-strings.

It is all so beautiful and solidly restful ! '
exclaimed Bethesda, her weariness forgotten, asher
spirit often did ignore the cries of her body.
It is just like you. Aunt Agatha,' and she
went to lay her cheek against Mrs. Stanhope's
shoulder with a momentary caress.

How much you two are alike,' said Margaret ;
aren't they, Aunt Mabel ? I never noticed it
before.'

The resemblance was indeed quite marked.
Mrs. Stanhope was somewhat taller than Bethesda,
and the slender grace of the one had developed
into a noble maturity in the other ; but
the long, fine lines of each were alike, and the
colouring' similar. Agatha's hair was a darker
shade of Bethesda's ; her eyes a clear blue, not
large, but extraordinarily searching, and capable
of o^reat tenderness. But the loveliest feature of
her face was her mouth. It was well shaped by
nature, and the lips were pink as an oleander
blossom. Xo one noticed, however, these attributes
in considering the complete beauty of expression
that gave its supreme attraction. It
was tender, sweet, chastened, resigned ; it was
cheerful, hopeful, dainty, devoted ; it was expressive
of a rounded development of character
as rare as it is priceless, and as comforting as it

is inspiring. This it was that caused Bethesda
to remark a little sadly :

There is no one I would more like to resemble,
but I fear I never shall.'

Thank you, dear,' said Agatha softly. ' Now,
shall we go upstairs ? '

Aunt Mabel,' exclaimed Bethesda a moment
later, ' I want you to notice how comfortable
everything is. There is not a single article
which is not of use, either in suggestion or
action. That is what makes the house so perfect
to my mind.'

^ It is not perfect yet,' said Agatha, smiling
at her niece's enthusiasm. ' There is still much
to be done. When I have it quite perfect, of
which there is no immediate danger, I shall wish
to build attain.'

That is a bizarre notion,' exclaimed Mabel.
I am so different. The longer I live anywhere,
and the better it suits me, the more devoted I
become to it. I like even a chair and a window

that I am used to. But you never did have the
love of place I have.'

It is possible that one who judged from the
facts mio^ht not as^ree with vous remarked Agatha
in her quiet way.

Oh, it hasn't been tiny fault that I have been
tossed around the world so. It has always been
a sacrifice of myself to others. I should have
had a home long: ao;o if it had not been for these
girls, especially Beth's health and studies. Oh ! '
she broke off suddenly at the door of the apartment
assigned to her — ' what a ravissante room !
And how Frenchy it is ! '

Then, for the first time since her arrival, she
turned and gave her sister a spontaneous kiss.

Your trunks will be up soon, I suppose,' said
Agatha, an amused twinkle in her eyes ; ' but
don't wait for them. Here are wrapper and
slippers at your disposal. I am glad you like
the room. You had better take a good rest.
Come, girls.'

I'm coming too cried Mabel. ' I must seethe
rest of your pretty house now.'

Margaret's room communicated with Agatha's,
and was the cosiest nook in the house. The
harmony of colour and arrangement was perfect.
Olive-green and sky-blue intermixed and interwove,
until the chamber seemed like a mossy
dell with the blue air of Italy seen through the
interstices. There were numerous pictures on
the painted walls, and the ceiling was frescoed
with symbols of Margaret, in which the daisy
and pearl predominated. As a frieze there was
an inscription in old English letters of a sentence
taken from one of the Alhambra halls : —

In tMs garden of delights I am an eye,
And the pupil thereof is indeed our Lord.'

The tears came to Bethesda's eyes as she
looked about and found herself in this pure
refuge, where the air was sweet with noble aims.
Her sister seemed very much like Saint Margaret
to her then.

Mabel was in ecstasies.

Moliere did you ever find such ideas ? ' lie
exclaimed again and again. ' You are really a
genius, Agatha. There is not another such room
in the universe. How did you ever think of it
all ? C'est cela qui tonne ! I don't remember
any such ideas in New England.'

It is tQTL years since I lived there,' said
Agatha quietly.

Tant pis I ' exclaimed Mabel, striking her
forehead with a theatric gesture. ' We are ten
years older ! '

•' We will grow old faster if we don't sleep,'
said Agatha, somewhat drily. ' The girls look
very tired.'

That's true, and I am simply ecixtsee,' said
the incorrigible Mabel, letting her arms fall with
sudden lassitude. ■ ' AndiamoJ

As this third language was introduced there
was a general laugh,

What have I done now ? ' asked Mabel, with

wide, innocent eyes. ' You are all laughing at me.
What have I said so mtty V

No one would attempt to repeat you,' said
Agatha.

It was very warm weather, but a strong wind
was blowing, and no one but Mabel minded the
heat. Indeed Margaret and Bethesda felt warm
days peculiarly luxurious, especially in a house
such as this, where every comfort was at hand.
Mrs. Trescott, however, complained loudly of
this atrocious American climate, always in extremes,
and with heat like a furnace, not '

A bath as Agatha suggested when a comparison
was wanting.

A bath indeed ! Fie ! Italy is the most
delicious place in the world. The climate never
takes you by surprise. If there is to be a change
you are prepared gradually, and don't have your
ears boxed by these sudden antipodes of heat
and cold.'

You have not experienced any such changes

yet, have you ? ' asked Mr. Stanhope courteously,
for they were now at dinner, and Mrs. Trescott
was in the seat of the honoured guest.

No,' said Mabel, with a quick shrug ; * our
welcome has been warm in more ways than
one.'

You would like it to change V asked Ealeigh,
a flash in his keen eyes.

Oh no ! quite on the contrary, I assure you,'
exclaimed Mabel, covering her faux pas with
voluminous compliments. '' You have greeted us
with such delightful cordiality that we could not
wish even the weather to change, if that would
alter it. But I trust there is no such danger,'
and she beamed upon him one of her most
tropical smiles.

Ealeio-h bowed with a look of bewilderment
which amused his wife and caused her to say :

AVe find her almost as difficult to follow as
she does the weather, don't we ? "Would you
recognise her, Ealeigh ? Suppose you met her

accidentally, do you think you would immediately
call her Mabel?'

The family resemblance is too strong for it
ever to be obliterated,' he returned: 'but foreign
life certainly has changed her.'

Improvement, I hope ? ' said Mabel coquettishly.


No doubt,' was the prompt reply. ' Are not
the changes of a fair woman always from good to
better '? '

Ma foi ! You are quite a Frenchman,
Ealeigh. But I remember you always did have a
pretty way of turning things.'

When this little tilt was over Mr. Stanhope
felt authorised to give some of his attention to
Bethesda, who sat at his left, and the manner
in which he addressed her was, in spite of intention,
more easy and solicitous. There was something
touching to the strong, satisfied man in
her hungry yet brave eyes. He seemed to look
upon her as a frail vessel which a touch might

break, and yet which needed support. And she
in turn admired him heartily.

The prevailing characteristics of his face were
rectitude and warmth of feeling. His mind was
active and deep ; alive to all the questions of the
day, and probing beneath them to the principles
that made them good or ill. Philosophy and
political economy, finance and social duties, were
equally familiar to him. He was one of those
men one meets on rare occasions who seem to
have every subject chambered in their brains, and
each occupant alert. He was punctilious in regard
to the observance of conventionalities, and stern,
almost rigid, in his opinions on any point of honour
or honesty. Otherwise he was very capable, and
always generous. There where a dozen young menin
to^^l whom he had started in individual careers,
and dio were proud of being called ' Mr. Stanhope's
young men.' A willing hand and a well-trained
brain found a faithful friend in Ealeioii
Stanhope ; a shiftless, lazy fellow found sharp

words and, up to a certain point, an easy kindliness
of heart. But let integrity, in whatever
form, be touched, and no man lives who was
quicker to unsheathe the sword and deal trenchant
blows than Raleigh Stanhope.

The unity which reigned between him and his
wife, who could not be divided in thought anymore
than in deed, was remarkable and complete.
The consummate tact and calm audacity with
which she treated him were without rival, and her
accurate perceptions often aided him through
close places, ' which,' he was fond of saying, ' a
man without such a wife would have been
squeezed to death in.'

Now, as they sat on either side of their richly
spread table, dispensing hospitality to their
guests, entertaining and invigorating them at
once, an occupation which seemed peculiarly
suitable to both, Bethesda looked from one to the
other with unconcealed admiration, and also a
sigh, which was immediately smothered.

The conversation turned upon jokes which
Mrs. Stanhope was constantly playing on her
husband, who took so boyish an enjoyment in
them that he would remind her of one story after
another to be told at his expense. It was Mrs.
Trescott's turn for amazement at this, and she
turned astonished eyes from one to the other
with a wonder which only added to the fun, as
anecdote after anecdote was detailed about this
man who was the only person in the world, she
asseverated, of whom she was afraid.

When they ended the repast it was in a burst
of merriment which made the contrast that followed
the more effective. Off from the library
was a wire-screened porch, where there were easy
chairs and a swinging lamp turned down to a
dim lustre. The delicious perfume of tea-roses,
with which the garden was filled, came in soft
gusts, like the passing of some sweet presence ;
the stars shone through the clear air, far away
and fine ; a branch over the trellis was blown

VOL. II. R

now and again to touch Bethesda's cheek, and it
made her quiver with a thrill of memory too
keen for pleasure, yet which she would not move
to avoid.

The yearning, the intense longing of her whole
being for Eene then, made it seem as if she could
actually see her spirit leaving her, and cleaving
the air as it flew swiftly to its bourne. Oh, to
be for once, just once, at rest !

'Beth, dear, are you cold?' asked Margaret,
touching her hand. It was burning. ' I thought
you must be cold, you shivered so,' she added
simply.

Bethesda roused herself at this, and talked
with a deafening uproar in her ears which often
made her obliged to strain her hearing to the
utmost to be able to understand what persons
said.

Presently Agatha excused herself, and a few
moments later called Beth.

There is some wine for you,' she said. ' Are

the perfumes from the garden oppressive ? I see
YOU are not feelings well

•' Oh no ; the roses are delicious. I am only-tired,
I suppose.'

•' Come with me, then, a while.'

They went into the study, where every draught
was caught, and which was only lighted by the
reflections of the street lamps. Mrs. Stanhope
bade her niece lie down on a bamboo sofa, and
then sat and fanned her, talking with gradually
lengthening pauses between her words.

Silence at length prevailed. Bethesda's eyes
were shut, and her hand rested on her aunt's
knee with a clinoino^ confidence. She would
like, she was thinking, to be alone with Aunt
Agatha and Margaret for a onions time ; —

that is, if she could without hurting any one.
Possibly for Aunt Mabel too it would be best ;
but, if not, she did not wish to be selfish. This
half-hour was hers at least. She could lie here,
soothed and rested by the silence, the sympathy,

and an occasional glance at Aunt Agatha's self-contained
and chastened face. A willing renunciation,
and thence peace, was what spoke so eloquently
from these features. What would be
her advice if she could see her niece's heart ?
Bethesda rose presently, restless with encroaching
thoughts.

You are so good to me ! ' she said fondly, as
Agatha rose also to join the others.

You have liked if?' asked Agatha, bending
to kiss her. She always loved persons best when
she could do most for them. And Bethesda did
not answer except by a touch.

END OF VOL. II.

Printed by R. & R. Clark. Edinburgh.

October, 1883.

Macmillan & Co's Catalogue of Works in
Belles Lettres, including Poetry, Fiction, etc.

ADDISON, SELECTIONS FROM. By John Richard Green. Mea
LL.D. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4.^. ()d.

ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE, THE. By the Author of "John
Halifax. Gentleman." With Illustrations by Mrs. Allingham. New Edition.
Globe 8vo. 4^-. 6«/.

iESOP.— SOME OF sop's FABLES. With Modern Instances shown in
Designs by Randolph Caldecott. From New Translations by Alfred
Caluecott, M.A. The Engraving by J. JJ. Cooper. Demy 410. ts. 6d.

Walsingham. — the BALLAD BOOK. Edited by William Alli.vgham.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4.^. 6d.

ALEXANDER (C. P.). —THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR
THE YOUNG. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ^s. 6d.

A LITTLE PILGRIM: IN THE UNSEEN. Crown Svo. 25.6^.
A PASSION Flower. A Novel. Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 125.

AN ANCIENT CITY, AND OTHER POEMS.— By A Native
OF Surrey. Extra cap. Svo. 6.f.

ANDERSON . — BALLADS AND SONNETS. By Alexander Anderson
(Surfaces). Extra cap. 8vo. 55.

ARIOSTO. — Paladin AND SARACEN. Stories from Ariosto. By
H. C. Hollw.w-Calthrop. With Illustrations by Mrs. Arthur Lemon.
Crown Svo. 6^'.

ARNOLD.— THE POETICAL WORKS OF MATTHEW ARNOLD.

Vol. I. Early Poems, Narrative Poems, and Sonnets. Vol. II Lyric,

Dramatic, and Elegiac Poems. New and Complete Edition. Two Vols.

Crown Svo. js. td. each.
SELECTED POEMS ()F MATTHEW ARNOLD. With Vignette engraved

by C. H. Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ins. 6d.
MEROPE. A Tragedy. Extra cap. Svo. 5^.

ART AT HOME SERIES.— Edited by W. J. Loftie, Bea.
A PLEA Fiji ART IN THE HOUSE. With especial reference to the

Economy of Collecting Works of Art, and the importance of Taste in Education

and Morals. By W. J. Loftie, B.A. With Illustrations. Fifth Thousand.

Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
SUGGESTIONS FOR H' lise DECORATION IN PAINTING, Woodwork,

AND FURNITURE. By Rhoda and Agnes Garrett. With

Illustrations. Sixth Thousand. Crown Svo. 2S. 6d.

a
30,000. 10. 83.

ART AT HOME SERlKS—confmued.
MUSIC IN THE HOUSE. By John Hullah. With Illustrations. Fourth

Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE Drawing-room; ITS DECORATIONS AND FURNITURE.

By Mrs. Orrinsmith. Illustrated. Fifth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE DINING-ROOM. By Mrs. Loftie. Illustrated. Fourth Thousand.

Crown 8vo. 2S. 6d.
THE BED-ROOM AND BOUDOIR. By Lady Barker. Illustrated.

Fourth Thousand. Crown Svo. 25-. 6d.
DRESS. By Mrs. Oliphant. Illustrated. Crown Svo. zs. 6d.
AMATEUR THEATRICALS. By Walter H. Pollock and Lady Pollock.

Illustrated by Kate Greenaway. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

NEEDLEWORK. By Elizabeth Cloister, Author of 'part Embroidery."
Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

THE MINOR ARTS— PORCELAIN PAINTING, WOOD CARVING,

STENCILLING. MODELLING, MOSAIC WORK, &c. By Charles

G. Leland. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
THE LIBRARY. By Andrew Lang. With a Chapter on English Illustrated

Books, by Austin Dobson. Illustrated. Crown Svo-^s. 6d.
SKETCHING FROM NATURE. By Tristan Ellis. With Illustrations by

H. S. Marks, R. A., and the Author. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

ARTEVELDE— JAMES'AND PHILIP VON ARTEVELDE.

By W. J Ashley, B.A., late Scholar of Balliol College, Oxford. Being the
Lothian Prize Essay for 1882. Crown Svo. 6s.

ATKINSON.— AN ART TOUR TO THE NORTHERN CAPITALS
OF EUROPE. By J. Bennington Atkinson. Svo. 125.

AUSTIN. — Works by Alfred Austin.

SAVONAROLA. A Tragedy. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
SOLILOQUIES IN SONG. Crown Svo. 6s.

Awry. — THE STORY OF A FELLOW SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Patterson for the Young.) With a Preface by Charlotte M.
YoNGE. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.

BACON'S ESSAYS. Edited by W. Aldis Wright. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. j^s. 6d.

BAKER. — Works by Sir Samuel Baker, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.G.S., &c., &c. :
CAST UP BY THE SEA; or, THE Adventures OF NED GREY. With
Illustrations by Heard. New Edition. Crown Svo, cloth gilt. 6s.

TRUE TALES FOR MY GRANDSONS. With Illustrations by W. J. Hennessy.
Crown Svo. ij^^i ready.

BALLAD BOOK. —CHOICEST ANECDOTES AND SAYINGS.

Edited by William Allingham. (Golden Treasury Scenes.) imo. 4?. td.

BARKER (LADY). — Works by Lady Barker :
A YEAR'S HOUSEKEEPING IN SOUTH AFRICA. With Illustrations.

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 3.1. 6d.
State )N Liii IN NEW ZEALAND. With Illustrations. Cheaper Edition.

Crown Svo. 35. 6d.
TH1<L WHITE RAT and other Stories. Illustrated by W. J. He.vxessy.

Globe Svo. 2S. 6i.

BEE SLY.— STORIES FROM THE HISTORY OF ROME. By Mr.-.
Beeslv. Cap. Svo. 2S. 6d.

BIEKLAS.— Louis Lares; or, THE REMINISCENCES OF A
CHIOTE MERCHANT DURING THE GREEK WAR OF Independence.
From the Greek of D. Bikel.\.^. Translated, with Introduction:
on the Rise and Development of Modern Greek Literature, by J. Gexnadiu^
late Charge d' Affaires at the Greek Legation in London. Crown Svo. 7.^. 6d.

BLACK (W.).— Works by W. Black. Author of "A Daughter of Heth" :

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A PHAETON. Illustrated. Crow 1
Svo. 6s.

A PRINCESS OF THULE. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA, and other Stories. Crown Svo. dr.

MADCAP VIOLET. Crown Svo. 6s.

GREEN PASTURES AND PICCADILLY. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo
6s.

MACLEOD OF DARE. With Illustrations. Cheaper Eduion. Crows 8vc.
6s.

WHITE WINGS. A YACHTING ROMANCE. Cheaper Edition. Crown
Svo. 6s.

THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH : THE FOUR MAC NICOLS: THE PUPIL
OF AURELIUS. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

Shannon BELLS. Crown Svo. Cheaper Edition. 6s.

ADVENTURES IN THULE: and Other Stories. A Book for Children
Crown Svo. ij^^t ready.

Poland. THE STORY OF A DAUGHTER. Three Vols. Crown 8vo.
3i.r, 6d.

Johnson. — Syncope SOLBAKKEN. Translated from the Nom-egan

of BjORXSTJERNE BjORNSOX, by JULIE Sumter. Crown SvO. 6s.

Blackieie. — Works by John Stuart Blackieie, Emeritus Professor of Greek

in the University of Edinburgh : —
THE WISE MEN OF GREECE. In a Series of Dramatic Dialogues. Crown

Svo. gs.

LAY SERMONS. Crown Svo. 6.?.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse, with Notes and Preliminary
Remarks. By J. Stuart Blackieie, F.R.S.E. Crown Svo. 9^.

BLAKISTON.— MODERN SOCIETY IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND
SOCIAL ASPECTS. By Peyton Blakiston, M.D., F.R.S. Crown Svo.

BRIGHT.— Works by Henry A. Bright.
A YEAR IN A LANCASHIRE GARDEN. Second Edition. Crown 8vp.

2s. 6d.
THE ENGLISH FLOWER GARDEN. Crown Svo. 3^. 6d.

a 2

Bromley. — ESSAYS. By the late George Bromley, M.A., Librarian of
Trinity College, Cambridge. Edited by W. G. Clark, M. A., late Fellow and
Tutor of Trinity CoUeg-^, Cambridge. A new Edition. Globe 8vo. 5^.

Contents: Tennyson's Poems; Wordsworth's P ems ; Poetry and Criticism;
Carlyle's Life of Sterling-esmond": "Westward Ho"; Wilson's " Notes
Ambrosial" ; Comte's "positive Philosophy," &c.

BROOKE.— THE FOOL OF QUALITY, or, THE HISTORY OF HENRY.
EARL OF MORELAND. By Henry Brooke. Newly revised, with a
Biographical Preface by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., late Rector jf
Eversley. Crown 8vo. 6j.

BROOKE (S. A.).— Piquet OF THE TUFT: A LOVE DRAMA
By the Rev. Stafford A. Brooke, M.A. Extra crown 8vo. (>s.

BROWNE-1R Thomas.— RELIGIO MEDICI; Letter to a
Friend, &c., and Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greenish, M. IJ.
imo. ins. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)

Ounce.— FAIRY TALES, THEIR ORIGIN AND MEANING. With
some Account of the Dwellers in Fairy Land. By J. Thackeray Ounce.
Extra cap. 8vo. 35. 6d.

BUNYAN'S PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. (Golden Treasury Series.)

imo. ^s. 6d.

BURKE.— LETTERS, TRACTS, AND SPEECHES ON IRISH AFFAIRS.

By Edmund Burke. Arranged and Edited by Matthew Arnold, with a
Preface. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BURNETT. — Works by Frances Hodgson Burnett, Author of "That
Lass o' Lowrie's" : — ■

HAWORTH'S. a Novel. Crown 8vo. 6s.

LOUISIANA ; and THAT LASS O' LOWRIE's. Two Stories. Illustrated.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

LOUISIANA. Popular Edition. Sewed paper wrapper. Crown 8vo. \s.

BURNS.— THE POETICAL WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS. Edited from
the best printed and manuscript Authorities, with Glossarial Index and a
Biographical Memoir, by Alexander Smith. With Portrait of Burns, and
Vignette of the Twa Dogs, engraved by Shaw. Two Vols. Cap. 8vo. los.

COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited with Memoir by Alexander Smith.
(Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 2>s. 6d.

BUTLER'S Libras. Part I. Edited, with Introduction and Notes,
by Alfred Milnes, M.A Cap. Bvo. 35. 6d. Parts II. and III. ^s.6d.

BYRON. — POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew-arnold.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4.^. 6d. Large Paper Edition.
Crown 8vo. gs

CARROLL.— Works by Lewis Carroll:—
ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN "WONDERLAND. With Forty-two Illustrations
by Tenniel. 71st Thousand. Crown 8vo, cloth. 6s.
A GERMAN TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. With Tenniel's Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, gilt. 6s.

CARROLL — Works by Lewis Carr ell — continued.

A FRENCH TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. With Texxiel's Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, gilt. ts.

AN ITALIAN TRANSLATION OF THE SAME. By T. P. Rossetti.
With Texxiel's Illustrations. Crowii 8vo. 6s.

THROUGH THE Looking-glass. AND WHAT ALICE FOUND
THERE. With Fifty Illustrations by Texxiel. Crown Svo. gilt. 6s. 52nd
Thousand.

RHYME? AND REASON? With Sixty-five Illustrations by Arthur B. Frost,
and Nine by Henry Holiday. Crown 8vo. ^s.

%* This book is a reprint, with a few additions, of the comic portion of " Phantasmagoria
and Other Poems," and of the "Hunting of the Snark." Mr. Frost's
Pictures are new.

Castle.— A CENTURY OF EMBLEMS. By G S. C.^utley, Vicar
of Nettled, Author of 'the After Glow," etc. With numerous Illustrations
by Lady Marion Afford, Rear-admiral Lord W. Compton, the Yen.
Lord A Compton, R. Barnes. J. D. Cooper, and the Author. Pott 4to,
cloth elegant, gilt elegant. io.y. 6d.

CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the
First Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by E.
Jenkins. (Golden Treasury' Series.) imo 4.5. 6d.

CHILDREN'S POETRY. By the author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."
Extra Cap. 8vo. 4.^. 6d

CHRISTMAS CAROL (A). Printed in Colours from Original Designs
by Mr. and Mrs. Trevor Crispin, with Illuminated Borders from MSS. of the
with and ^y^\ Centuries. Inp. 4to, cloth elegant. Cheaper Edition. 21J.

CHURCH (A. J.). — HOR.t TENNYSONIAN-E, Sive Eel gas e Tennyson
L.ati.ne red U:j£ Cura A. J. Church. A. M. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

CLIFFORD.— ANYHOW STORIES-MORAL AND OTHERWISE. By
Mrs. W. K. Clifford. With Illustrations by Dorothy Tenant. Crown 8 vo.
3J-. 6d.

CLOUGH (ARTHUR Hugh.— THE POEMS AND PROSE
REMAINS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH. With a Selection from his
Letters, and a Memoir. Edited by his Wife. With Portrait Two Vols. Crown
8vo. 21J.
THE POEMS OF ARTHUR HUGH CLOUGH, sometime Fellow of Oriel
College. oxford. Ninth Edition. Cap. 8vo. 6s.

Chinks. — THE STORY OF PAULINE : An Autobiography. By G. C.
Clime?. Crown 8vo. 6s.

COLERIDGE.— HUGH CRICHTON'S ROMANCE. A Novel. By

Chkistabel R. Coleridge. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

COLLECTS OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, with a

beautifully Coloured Floral Design to each C elect, and Illuminated Cover.
Crown 8vo. 125. Abo kept im various styles of morocco.

COLLIER. — A PRIMER OF ART. By John Collier. imo. xs.

CO Lou HO UN.— RHYMES AND CHIMES. By F. S. Colquhoun (ree
F. S. Fuller Maitl.\xd"). Exti-a cap. Svo zs. 6d.

COWPER.— POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Biographical Introduction,
by Rev. W. Benham, B.D. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3s. 6d.

THE TASK: AN EPISTLE TO JOSEPH HILL, Esq., ; TIROCINIUM;
or, a Review of the Schools ; and the HISTORY OF JOHN GILPIN.
Edited, with Notes, by William Benham, B.D. (Globe Readings Edition.)
Globe 8vo. \s.

SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S LETTERS. Edited by Rev. W. Benham,
B.D. imo. ifS. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.) [In the press .

SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S POEMS. With an Introduction by Mrs.
Oliphant. imo. 4^. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)

CRANE— GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES: A Selection from the Household
Stories. Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures
by Walter Crane. Crown Bvo. 6s.

CRANE (Lucy.— LECTURES ON ART AND THE FORMATION
OF TASTE. By Lucy Crane. With Illustrations by Thomas and Walter
Crane. Crown 8vo. 6s.

CRAWFORD— Works by F. Marion Crawford.

MR. ISAACS. A Tale of Modern India. Crown 8vo. 4.?. 6d.
DOCTOR CLAUDIUS. A True Story. Crown Bvo. ^s. 6d.

DANTE ; AN ESSAY. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, D.C.L., Dean of
St. Paul's. With a Translation of the " De Monarch. " By F. J. Church.
Crown Bvo. 6s.

THE "DE Monarch." Separately. Bvo. 4.?. 6^.

THE PURGATORY. Edited, with Translation and Notes, by A. J. Butler.
Crown Bvo. 1.2s. 6d.

DAY. — Works by the Rev. Lal Behari Day;
BENGAL PEASANT LIFE. New Edition. Crown Bvo. 6s.
FOLK-TALES OF BENGAL. Crown 8vo. ^s. 6d.

DEMOCRACY — An American Novel. Crown 8 vo. ^s. 6d.

Also a POPULAR EDITION, in Paper Wrapper, Crown Bvo. xs.

DE MORGAN (Mary.— THE NECKLACE OF THE PRINCESS
FIORIMONDE, and other Stories. With 25 Illustrations by Walter Crane.
Extra cap. Bvo. 6s.

*i(.* Also an Edition printed by Messrs. R. and R. Clark, on hand-made paper, the
plates, initial letters, head and tail pieces being printed on Indian paper and mounted
in the text. Cap. 410. The Edition is Limited to one Hundred Copies.

DEUTSCHE Lyric. By Dr. Buchheim. (Golden Treasury Series.)
I Arno. 45. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF PARIS, 1883. An Unconventional
Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. imo. Paper cover, i.y. Cloth, is. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF LONDON, 1883. (Fourth

Year.) An Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. imo. Paper
cover, IS. Cloth, \s. 6d.

DICKENS'S DICTIONARY OF THE THAMES, 1883. An

Unconventional Handbook. With Maps, Plans, &c. Paper cover, is. Cloth.
xs. 6d.

DICKENS'S CONTINENTAL A.B.C. RAILWAY GUIDE.

Published on the first of each Month. imo. zs.

DILLWYN (E. A.). — THE REBECCA RIOTER. A Story of Killay
Life. Two Vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.

DOYLE. — POEMS. Collected Edition. By Sir Francis Hastings Doyle.
Crown 8vo. just ready.

DOTTY, AND OTHER POEMS. By J. L. Extra cap. 8vo. 3.?. 6^.

DRYDEN.— POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited, with a Memoir, by W. D.
Christie. M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Bvo. 3^. 6d.

DUFF (Grant.— MISCELLANIES, POLITICAL and LITERARY
By the Right Hon. M. E. Gr.\nt Duff, M.P. Bvo. 10^. 6d.

DUNSMUIR (Amy.— VIDA; Study of a Girl. New Edition. Crown

Svo. 6s.

Embers. — Works by Dr. Georg Embers.

THE BURGOMASTER'S WIFE; a Tale of the Siege of Leyden. Translated
by Clara. Bell. Crown Svo. 4^. (id.

ONLY A WORD. Translated by Clara Bell. Crown Svo. 4J. 6<f.

EMERSON — THE COLLECTED WORKS OF RALPH WALDO
Emerson Umf.rm with the Beverley Edition of Charles Kingsley's
Novels. Globe Svo., price ^s. each volume.

1. MISCELLANIES. With an Introductory
Essay by John Morley.

[/« preparation.

2. ESSAYS. ready.

3. POEMS. ready.

4. ENGLISH TRAITS : AND representative
MEN. IBeady.

5. CONDUCT OF LIFE : AND
SOCIETY and SOLITUDE.

\ Ready.

6. LETTERS: SOCIAL AIMS, &c.

\ Ready.

ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS. Edited by John Moki.ey. Crown

svo. ns. 6d. each.
JOHNSON. By Leslie Stephen.
SCOTT. By R. H. Sutton.
GIBBON. By J. Cotter Morrison.
SHELLEY. By J. A. Symonds.
HUME. By Professor Huxley, P.R.S.
GOLDSMITH. By William Black.
DEFOE. By W. Into.
BURNS. By Principal Sh.mrp.

SPENSER. By the Very Rev. R. W. Church, Dean of St Paul's.
THACKERAY. By Anthony Trollope.
BURKE. By John Morley.
MILTON. By Mark P.\ttison.
HAWTHORNE. By Henry James.
SOUTHEY. By Professor Dowcen.
CHAUCER. By A. W. Ward.
COWPER. By Godwin Smith.
Bunyan. By J. A. Froude.
LOCKE. By Professor Fowler.

ENGLISH MEN OF setters-cou^inncd.

BYRON. By Professor Nichols.

WORDSWORTH. By F. W. H. Myers.

DRYDEN. By George Saintsbifry.

LANDOR. By Professor Sidney Colin.

DE Quinces. By Professor Mason.

CHARLES LAMB. By Rev Alfred Ainger. »

BENTLEY. By Professor R. C Webb.

CHARLES DICKENS. By A. W. Ward.

GRAY. By E. W. Gosse.

SWIFT. By Leslie Stephen.

STERNE. By H. D. Trail.

MACAULAY. By J. Cotter Morrison

FIELDING. By Austin DoBSON.

SHERIDAN. By Mrs. Oliphant.

ADDISON. By W. J. Courthouse. [/« the py.ss.

[Other Volumes to follow.]

EVAN S. — Works by Sebastian Evans.

BROTHER FABIAN'S MANUSCRIPT, AND OTHER POEMS. Cap.
8vo. 6*.

IN THE STUDIO: A DECADE OF POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 5^,

FAIRY BOOK. By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman." (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. Ass. 6d.

Facets.— TALES IN POLITICAL ECONOMY. By Millicent
G. Facets, Author of '■ Political Economy for Beginners." Globe 8vo. 35.

FLEMING.— Works by George Fleming.
A NILE NOVEL. New Edition. Crown Bvo. 2s.
MIRAGE. A Novel. New Edition. Crown 8vo. is.
THE HEAD OF MEDUSA. New Edition. Crown 8vo. zs.

FO'C'S'LE YARNS-including "BETSY LEE" AND OTHER

POEMS. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

FRASER-tatler.— SONGS IN MINOR KEYS. By C. C. Fraser-tatler
(Mrs. Edward Liddell). imo. 6s.

FREEMAN.— Works by E. A. Freeman, D.C.L., LL.D.

HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL SKETCHES ; CHIEFLY
ITALIAN. With Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo. 10^. 6d.

SUBJECT AND NEIGHBOUR LANDS OF VENICE. Being a Companion
Volume to " Historical and Architectural Sketches." With Illustrations. Crown
Bvo. 10s. 6d.

GARNETT. — IDYLLS AND EPIGRAMS. Chiefly from the Greek
Anthology. By Richard Garnett. Flip. 8vo. 2i. 6d.

GEDDES.— FLOSCULI Graeca Borealis SIVE AXTHOLOGI^
GRAECA ABERDOXEXSIS. Context GULIELMUS D. GEDDE^.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

GILMORE
GOODWIN

Luke's, Lower - -.

Macmillan's Magazine.

GLOBE LIBRARY.— Globe 8vo. Cloth. 35. 6^. each.

SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited by W. G. Clark, M.A.
and W. Alors Wright, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge, Editors 'of the
Cambridge Shakespeare." With Glossary.

SPENSER'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited from the Original Editions and
Manuscripts, by R. Morris, with a Memoir by J. W. Hales. M.A. With
Glossary.

SIR WALTER SCOTT'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with a Biographical
and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palsgrave, and copious Notes.

COMPLETE WORKS OF ROBERT BURNS.— THE POEMS, SONGS.
AND LETTERS, edited from the best Printed and Manuscript Authorities!
with Glossarial Index, Notes, and a Biographical ]memoir by Alexander

Smith.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited after the Original Editions, with a Biographical
Introduction by Henry Kingsley.

GOLDSMITH'S :miscellaneous WORKS. Edited, with Biographical
Introduction by Professor Mason.

POPE'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Notes and Introductory Memoir
by Adolphus William Ward, M.A., Fell jw of St. Peter's College, Cambridge,'
and Professor of History in Owens College, Manchester.

DRYDEN'S POETICAL Works. Edited, with a Memoir, Revised Text
and Notes, by W. D. Christie, M.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge.

COWPER'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited, with Notes and Biographical
Introduction, by Rev. William Bentham, B.D.

MORTE Arthur.— SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF KING
ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE.
The original Edition of Caxton, revised fer Modern Use. With an Introduction
by Sir Edward Strachey, Bart.

THE WORKS OF VIRGIL. Rendered into English Prose, with Introductions,
Notes, Running Analysis, and an Index. By James Londsd.a.le, M.A.,
late Fellow and Tutor of Baliol College, Oxford, and Classical Professor in
King's College, London ; and Samuel Lee, M.A., Latin Lecturer at University
College, London

THE WORKS OF HORACE. Rendered into English Prose with Introductions,
Running Analytic, Notes and Index. By John Landscape. M.A., and
Samuel Lee, M.A.

MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS, Edited, with Introductions, by Professor
Mason.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES.— Uniformly printed in imo.,
with Vignette Titles ly J. E. Millais, R.A., T. Woolner, W. Holman Hunt,
Sir Noel Paton, A;-hur Hughes, &c. Engraved on Steel by Jeens, &c.
Bound in extra cloth. 4s. 6d. each volume.

THE GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICAL
POEMS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Selected and arranged, with
Notes, by Francis Turner Palsgrave.

THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND FROM THE BEST POETS. Selected
and arranged by Coventry Patmore.

THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hymn Writers. Selected
and arranged by Lord Melbourne. A New and Enlarged Edition.

THE FAIRY BOOK ; the Best Popular Fairy Stories. Selected and rendered
anew by the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman."

THE BALLAD BOOK. A Selection of the Choicest British Ballads. Edited
by William Allingham.

THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. Selected and
arranged by Mark Lemon.

BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND EVIL. With Notes
and Glossarial Index. By W. Aldis Wright, M.A.

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS from this World to that which is to come. By
John Bunyan.

THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR THE YOUNG. Selected and
arranged by C. F. Alexander.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS of All Times and All Countries gathered and
narrated anew. By the Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe. "

THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited from the Original
Edition by J. W. Clark, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO. Translated into English, with Notes, by J. LI.
Davies, M.A. and D. J. Vaughan, M.A.

THE SONG BOOK. Words and Tunes from the best Poets and Musicians.
Selected and arranged by John Hullah, Professor of Vocal Music in King's
College, London.

LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, by Gustave
Mason, French Master in Harrow School.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS. Bv An Old Boy.

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. Gathered from the Old Histories and written anew
by the Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe." With Vignette.

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. New Edition.

THE CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the Works of the First
Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With an Introductory Essay by Edward
Jenkins, Author of " Gin's Baby," &c.

SCOTTISH SONG. A Selection of the Choicest Lyrics of Scotland. Compiled
and arranged, wirji brief Notes, by Mary Carlyle Aitken.

GOLDEN TREASURY SERlKS—contmt/ed.

DEUTSCHE Lyric. The Golden Treasury of the best German Lyrical
Poems, selected and arranged with Notes and Literary Introduction. By Dr.
Blenheim.

ROBERT HERRICK.— SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS OF.
Arranged with Notes by F. T. Palsgrave.

POEMS OF PLACES. Edited by H. W. Longfellow. England and Wales.
Two Vols.

MATTHEW ARNOLD'S SELECTED POEMS.

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN. By
Charlotte M. Yonge. With a Vignette by Holman Hunt.

LAMB'S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with Preface, by the Rev.
Alfred Ainger, Reader at the Temple.

WORDSWORTH'S SELECT POEMS. Chosen and Edited, with Preface, by
Matthew Arnold. Also a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, with Notes, by
Francis Turner Palsgrave,

SELECTIONS FROM ADDISON. Edited by John Richard Green.

SELECTIONS FROM SHELLEY. Edited by Stafford A. Brooke. Also
Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. 12s. td.

POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew Arnold. Also
a Large Paper Edition. Crown 8vo. gs.

SIR THOMAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI ; Letter to a Friend, &c., and
Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. Greexhill, M.D., Oxon.

Mohammed, THE SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF THE
PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-Poole.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR, Selections from the Writings of. Arranged and
Edited by Professor Sidney Colin.

COWPER — Selections from Cowper's Poems. With an Introduction by Mrs.
Oliphant.

COWPER. — Selections from Cowper's Letters. By Rev. W. Benham, B.D, imo.

vin the press.

GOLDSMITH.— MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. Edited with Biographical
Introduction, by Professor Mason. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 35. 6^.

GOLDSMITH'S VICAR OF 'WAKEFIELD, with a Memoir

of Goldsmith by Professor Invasion. Globe Readings Edition. Globe 8vo. i.r.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated Into English Verse, with Notes and
Preliminary Remarks, by John Stuart Blackieie, F.R.S.E., Emeritus Professor
of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo. qj.

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES, a Selection from the Household Stories.
Translated from the German by Lucy Crane, and done into Pictures by
Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. ts.

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 45. id.

Hamilton. — Works by P. G. Hamilton.
ETCHING AND ETCHERS. Illustrated with Forty-eight new Etchings.

Third Edition, revised. Columbine 8vo.
A PAINTER'S CAMP IN THE HIGHLANDS. Second and Cheaper Edition

One Vol. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE. With Portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, etched
by Leopold Flaming. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. los. 6d.

THOUGHTS ABOUT ART. New Edition, Revised, with Notes and Introduction.
Crown Bvo. 8.?. 6d.

HARDY. — BUT YET A WOMAN. A Novel. By Arthur Sherburne
Hardy. Crown Bvo. des. 6d Also a Popular Edition, paper covers, is.

HARRY. A POEM. By the Author of " Mrs. Jerningham's Journal." Extra
cap. 8vo. 3s. ct.

HAWTHORNE (Julian.— THE LAUGHING MILL; and Other
Stories. By Julian Hawthorne. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

HEINE.— SELECTIONS FROM THE POETICAL WORKS OF Heinrich
HEINE. Translated into English. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.
A TRIP TO THE BROCKEN. By Heinrich Hei.\-e. Translated by R.
McLiNTOCK. Crown 8vo. 3.^. 6d.

HERRICK (Robert.— SELECTIONS FROM THE LYRICAL

POEMS OF. Arranged with Notes by F. T. Palgrave. (Golden Treasury
Series.) imo. 4.S-. 6d.

Higgins.— Malone; An Oldport Romance. By T. W. Higgins.

Cap. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

HILDA AMONG THE BROKEN GODS. By the Author of

■' Orig Grange." Extra cap. 8vo. 7s. 6d.

HOLLWAY-CALTHROP.-PALADIN AND SARACEN: Stories
from Ariosto. By H. C. Hollway-Calthrop. With Illustrations by Mrs.
Arthur Lemon, engraved by O. Lacouk. Crown 8vo. 6s.

HOMER. — THE Odyssey OF HOMER DONE INTO ENGLISH
PROSE. By S. H. Butcher, M.A., Pr .lessor of Greek in the University of'
Edinburgh ; so'.Tietime Fellow and Protector of University College, Oxford, late
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; and A. Lang, M.A., late Fellow of
Merton College, Oxford. With Steel Vignette. Third Edition. Revised and
Corrected. With new Introduction and Additional Notes. Crown 8vo.
10s. 6d.
THE ILIAD OF HOMER. Translated into English Prose. By Andrew Lang,
M.A., Walter Leaf, M.A., and Ernest Myers, M.A. Crown 8vo. 12^'. 6d.

HOOPER AND PHILLIPS.— a MANUAL OF MARKS ON Pottery
AND PORCELAIN. A Dictionary of Easy Reference. By W. H.
Hooper and W. C. Phillips. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition,
revised. imo. 4J. 6d.

HOPE. —NOTES AND THOUGHTS ON GARDENS AND Woodlands.
Written chiefly for Amateurs. By the late Frances Jane Hope,
Hardie Lodge, near Edinburgh. Edited by Anne J. Hope Johnston. Crown
8vo. 6j.



With a Letter by

HOPKINS.— Works by Ellice Hopkins.
ROSE TURQUAXD. A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.
Autumn SWALLOWS: a Book of Lyrics. Extra cap. 8vo. 6s.

HOPPUS, — A GREAT TREASON: A Story of the var cf Independence.
2 vols. Crown Svo. gs,

HORACE.— WORD FOR WORD FROM HORACE. The Odes literally
versified. By W. T. Thornton. CB Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

WORKS OF. Rendered into English Rose by John Lonsdale, M.A. and
S.\.MUEL Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 35-. 6d

HUNT.— TALKS ABOUT ART. By William Hunt,
J. E. MiLLAis, R.A. New Edition. Crown Svo. 3.9. 6d.

IRVING. — Works by Washington Irving.

OLD CHRISTMAS From the Sketch Book. With upwards of 100 Illustrations
by Randolph Caldecctt, engraved by J. D. Cooper. New Edition.
Crown Svo. cloth elegant. 6s.
People's Sixpenny Edition. Illustrated. Medium 410. 6d.

Drawbridge HALL. With 120 Illustrations by R. Caldecott. New
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth gilt. 6s.

People's Sixpenny Edition. Illustrated. Medium 4to. 6d.

JAM E S.— Works by Henry James.

THE P.jRTRAITOF A LADY. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo.

WASHINGTON SQUARE ; THE PENSION BEAUREPAS
OF LETTERS. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE EUROPEANS A Novel. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo.

THE AMERICAN. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

DAISY MILLER: AN INTERNATIONAL EPISODE: FOUR MEE i-
Kings. Crown Svo. 6s.

RODERICK HUDSON. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE MADONNA OF THE FUTURE; and other Tales. Crown Svo. 6s.

FRENCH POETS AND NOVELISTS. New Edition. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.

PORTRAITS OF PLACES. Crown Svo. ins. 6d. Un the press.

6s.
A BUNDLE

6s.

JAMES— NOVELS AND TALES. By HENRY JAMES.

/« iZino, Paper confers, is. each volume. Cloth biding, is. 6d. each Toliuae.

OF A LADY.

vols.

THE PENSION BEAUREPAS:
THE POINT OF VIEW, i vol

DAISY MILLER, A STUDY: FOUR
MEETINGS : LONGSTAFF's

MARRIAGE ; BENVOLIO. i v 1.

THE MADONNA OF THE
FUTURE: A BUNDLE OF
Letters ; THE DIARY OF A
MAN OF FIFTY: EUGENE
PICKERING.

JOUBERT. — Penser OF JOUBERT. Selected and Translated with the
Original French appended, by Henry Attwell, Knight of the Order of the
Oak Crown. Crown Svo. 5.^.

THE PORTRAIT

RODERICK HUDSON. 2
THE AMERICAN. 2 vols.
WASHINGTON SQUARE, i vol.
THE EUROPEANS, i vol.
CONFIDENCE, i vol.
THE SIEGE OF LONDON: Madame
DE Males. I vol.
AN INI National EPISODE :

Weary. — A MEMOIR OF ANNIE Weary. By her Sister. With a
Portrait. Third Thousand. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo 45. (>d.

Weary (A.). — Works by Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY ; THE STORY OF AN IRISH HOME THIRTY YEARS
AGO. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

JANET'S HOME. New Edition. Crown 8vo. ds.

CLEMENCY Franklin. New Edition. Crown Bvo. 6^.

Sudbury. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown Bvo. 6j.

A YORK AND A LANCASTER ROSE. Crown Bvo. 6j.

A DOUBTING HEART. New Edition. Crown Bvo. 6j.

THE HEROES OF ASGARD. Globe Bvo. is. 6d.

Weary (E.).— Works by Eliza Weary.

THE MAGIC VALLEY; or, PATIENT ANTOINE. With Illustrations by
E. V. B. Globe Bvo. gilt. 4^. td.

MEMOIR OF ANNIE Weary. With a Portrait. New Edition. Crown Bvo.
ifS. 6d.

KINGSLEY'S (CHARLES) NOVELS.— Beverley EDITION.

WESTWARD HO ! 2 Vols. Globe Bvo. lo?.
two YEARS AGO. 2 Vols. Globe Bvo. los.
HYPATIA. 2 Vols. Globe Bvo. icy.
YEAST. I Vol. Globe Bvo. 5^.
ALTON LOCKE. 2 Vols. Globe Bvo. sos.
HEREWARD THE WAKE. 2 Vols. Globe 8vo. 105.

KINGSLEY. — Works by the Rev. Charles Kingsley, M.A., late Rector

of Eversley, and Canon of Westminster. Collected Edition. 6s. each.

POEMS ; including the Saint's Tragedy, Andromeda, Songs, Ballads, &c. Complete
Collected Edition.

YEAST ; a Problem.

ALTON LOCKE. New Edition. With a Prefatory Memoir by Thomas
Hughes, Q.C. , and Portrait of the Author.

HYPATIA ; or, NEW FOES WITH AN OLD FACE.

GLAUCUS; or, THE WONDERS OF THE SEA-SHORE. With Coloured
Illustrations.

WESTWARD HO ! or, THE VOYAGES AND ADVENTURES OF SIR
Amy's LEIGH.

THE HEROES ; or, GREEK FAIRY TALES FOR MY CHILDREN. With

Illustrations.

TWO YEARS AGO.

Tee WATER BABIES. A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby. With Illustrations by
Sir Noel Paton, R.S.A , and P. Skelton.

THE ROMAN AND THE TEUTON. A Series of Lectures delivered before
the University of Cambridge. With Preface by Professor Max Miller.

HEREWARD THE WAKE— LAST OF THE ENGLISH.

KINGSLEY {Q.).—co7itimied.

THE HERMITS.

MADAM HOW AND LADY WHY ; or, FIRST LESSONS IN EARTH-lore
FOR CHILDREN.

AT LAST; A CHRISTMAS IN THE WEST INDIES. Illustrated.

PROSE IDYLLS. NEW AND OLD.

PLAYS AND PURITANS ; and other HISTORICAL ESSAYS. With Portrait
of Sir Walter Raleigh.

HISTORICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SANITARY AND SOCIAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

SCIENTIFIC LECTURES AND ESSAYS.

LITERARY AND GENERAL LECTURES.

HEALTH AND EDUCATION. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

SELECTIONS FROM SOME OF THE WRITINGS OF THE REV.
CHARLES KINGSLEY. Crown 8vo. 6.f.

OUT OF THE DEEP. Words for the Sorrowful, from the writings of Charles
KiNGSLEY. Extra cap. £vo. 3J. 6d.

KINGSLEY (H.). — TALES OF OLD TRAVEL. Re-narrated by Henry
KiNGSLEY. With Eight full-page Illustrations by Heard. Fifth Edition.
Crown 8vo, cloth, extra gilt. 5.?.

KNOX. — SONGS OF CONSOLATION. By Pisa Craig Knox. Extra cap.
8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges. 4^. dd.

LAMB. — Works by Charles Lamb.

TALES FROM SH-shakespeare. Edited, with Preface, by Alfred Aixger,
M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 45. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for
Schools. Globe Bvo, 2^.

ESSAYS OF ELIA. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Alfred Ainger,
M.A. Globe Bvo. 5^.

POEMS, PLAYS, ESSAYS, &c. Edited Alfred Ainger, M.A. Globe Bvo.

[/« preparation.

LANDOR (WALTER Savage.— SELECTIONS FROM THE

WklilXGS OF WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR. Arranged and Edited by
Professor Sidney Colin. With Portrait. imo. 4^- golden Treasury
Series.)

LECTURES ON ART.— Delivered in Support of the Society for
Protection of Ancient Buildings. By Regd. Stuart Poole, Professor W.
B. Richmond, E. J. Poynter, R.A,, J. T. Micklethwaite, and William
Morris. Crown 8vo. 4s. td.

LEMON (Mark.— the JEST BOOK. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4^. cis.

LITTLE ESTELLA, and other FAIRY TALES FOR THE YOUNG.
imo, cloth extra, "zs dd.

BELLES Lettres.

LITTLE SUNSHINE'S HOLIDAY.— By the Author of "John
Halifax, Gentleman." With Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Borne.— GUIDO AND Lisa : A TALE OF THE RIVIERA. A Poem.

By the Marquis of Lone. Third Edition. Small 4to, cloth elegant. With
Illustrations. 7^. 6d.

Lovel.— COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS of James Russell Lowell.
With Portrait, engraved by Jeens. imo, cloth extra. 4s. 6d.

LYTTELTON. — Works by Lord Lyttelton.
THE "COMUS" OF MILTON, rendered into Greek Verse. Extra cap. 8vo

5-y.

THE "SAMSON Agonies" OF MILTON, rendered into Greek Verse.
Extra cap. 8vo. 6s. 6d.

MACLAREN.— THE FAIRY FAMILY. A Series of Ballads and Metrical

Tales illustrating the Fairy Myth li'gy(f Europe. By Archibald Maclaren.
With Frontispiece, Illustrated Title, and Vignette. Crown 8vo, gilt. ss.

MACMILLAN memoir OF DANIEL MACMILLAN. By Thomas

Hughes, Q.C. With a Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, from a
Painting by Lowes Dickinson. Fifth Thousand. Crown 8vo. 4^. 6d.
Popular Edition, Paper Covers, is.

MACMILLAN'S BOOKS FOR

cloth elegant. Illustrated, zs. 6d. each :■

WANDERING WILLIE. By the
Author of "Conrad the Squirrel."
With a Frontispiece by Sir Noel
Paton.

THE WHITE RAT, AND OTHER
STORIES. By Lady Barker.
With Illustrations by W. J. Hennessy.


Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the
Author of "When I was a Little
Girl." With Illustrations by Adrian
Stokes.

Silly AND Only ; or, A Holiday
among the Mountains. By Mrs.
T. H. Ward. With Illustrations by
Mrs. Alma Tadema.

THE HEROES OF ASGARD ; Tales
from Scandinavian Mythology. By
A. and E. Weary.

WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL.

By the Author of "St. Slave's,"
Nine Years Old." &c.

THE YOUNG.— In Globe 8vo,

A STOREHOUSE OF STORIES.
Edited by Charlotte M. Yonge,
Author of "The Heir of Redclyffe."
Two Vols.

THE STORY OF A FELLOW
SOLDIER. By Frances Tawdry.
(A Life of Bishop Patterson for the
Young.) With Preface by Charlotte
M. Yonge.

AGNES HOPETOUN's SCHOOLS
AND HOLIDAYS. By Mrs. Oliphant.


RUTH AND HER FRIENDS. A

Story for Girls.

THE RUNAWAY. By the Author
of "Mrs. Jerningham's Journal."

OUR YEAR. A Child's Book in
Prose and Verse. By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman."

LITTLE SUNSHINE'S Holiday.
By the Author of "John
Halifax, Gentleman."

NINE YEARS OLD. By the Author
of ' ' When I was a Little Girl."



Macmillan MAGAZINE.— Published Monthly. Price ij. Vols
I. to XLVIII. are now ready, js. td. each.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR NOVELS.

Price OS. each Volume : —

In Crown £vo. cloth.

A PRINCESS OF THULE.
MADCAP VIOLET.

THE MAID OF KILLEENA ; and

other tales.

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES
OF A PHAETON. Illustrated.

Green PASTURES AND Piccadilly.


By William Black.

MACLEOD OF DARE. Illustrated
A Yachting: Ro-white

WINGS,
dance.

THE BEAUTIFUL WRETCH :
THL FOUR MAC NICOLS:
THE PUPIL OF AURELIUS.

Shannon BELLS.

By Charles Kingsley

TWO YEARS AGO.
WESTWARD HO ! "
ALTON LOCKE. With Portrait.

HYPATIA.

YEAST.

HEREWARD THE WAKE.

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

HUSBAND.

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY
Illustrated.

THE Gillies. Illustrated.

AGATHA'S HUSBAND. Illustrated.


OLIVE. Illustrated.

MY MOTHER AND I. Illustrated.

By Charlotte M. Yonge.

THE HEIR OF Radcliffe.
With illustrations.

Heartless. With Illustrations.

THE DAISY CHAIN. With Illustrations.


THE TPvIAL: More Links in the
Daisy Chain. With Illustrations.

HOPES AND FEARS. Illustrated.

DYNEVOR TERRACE. With

Illustrate ns.
MY YOUNG Allies. Illustrated.
THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE.

Two Vols. Illustrated.
CLEVER WOMAN OF THE

FAMILY. Illustrated

THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER.
Illustrated.

THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S

NEST. Illustrated.
THE CAGED LION. Illustrated.
THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS.

Illustrated.
LADY HESTER, and THE dangers

PAPERS. Illustrated.

THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated.


MAGNUM BONUM. Illustrated.
LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated.
UNKNOWN TO HISTORY.

Illustrated. [/« the press.

By Frances H, Burnett.
HAWORTH'S

"LOUISIANA" and "THAT LASS O' LOWRIE's." Two Stories.
Illustrated.

BELLES LETTRES.

MACMILLAN'S POPULAR l^OVE'LS— continued.

By Annie Weary.

CASTLE DALY.
Sudbury.
JANET'S HOME.

CLEMENCY Franklin.

A YORK AND A LANCASTER

ROSE.

A DOUBTING HEART.

By Henry James.

THE EUROPEANS.

THE AMERICAN.

DAISY MILLER: AN International
EPISODE : FOUR
MEETINGS.

RODERICK HUDSON.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOLDAYS.

TOM BROWN AT OXFORD.

THE FOOL OF QUALITY. By
H. Brooke.

Realms. By the Author of
Friends In Council."

HUGH CRICHTON'S ROMANCE.
By C. R. Coleridge.

ROSE TURQUAND. By Ellice
Hopkins.

OLD SIR DOUGLAS. By the
Hon. Mrs. Norton.

THE MADONNA OF THE
FUTURE, and other Tales.

WASHINGTON SQUARE: THE
PENSION BEAUREPAS : A
BUNDLE OF LETTERS.

THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY.

A BELEAGUERED CITY. By

Mrs. Ol Oliphant.

JOHN Inelegant. A Romance.
By J. H. Shorthouse.

THE LAUGHING MILL; and
other Tales. By Julian Hawthorne.


THE HARBOUR BAR.

BENGAL PEASANT LIFE. By

Lal Behari Day.
VIRGIN SOIL. By Tourgenief.
VIDA. The Study of a Girl. By

Amy Dunsmuir.

MACMILLAN'S TWO SHILLING NOVELS :—

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

AGATHA'S HUSBAND.

THE Gillies.

THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY.

OLIVE.

TWO MARRIAGES.

THE CURATE IN CHARGE.
A SON OF THE SOIL.
YOUNG Misgave.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN
HE MAY.

By Mrs. Macquoid.

PATTY.

br

By George Fleming.

A NILE NOVEL, | MIRAGE.

THE HEAD OF MEDUSA.

By the Author of " Hogan, M.P."

HOGAN, M.P. I FLITTERS, TATTERS, And

I THE COUNSELLOR: WEEDS,

THE HONOURABLE MISS Fer j AND OTHER SKETCHES.

Hard. I CHRISTY CAREW.

MACMILLAN'S ONE SHILLING VOLUMES:—

CrcwTi Svo, sewed, is. each.

DEMOCRACY. An American Novel.

LOUISIANA. By Frances Hodgson
Burnet, Author of "That
Lasso* Lowrie's," &c.

BUT YET A WOMAN. A Novel.
By Arthur Sherburne Hardy.

MEMOIR. OF DANIEL Macmillan.
By Thomas Hughes


HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES en
several Points, particularly on the
Preparation cf Economical and
Tasteful Dishes. By Mrs. Frederick.


MACQUOID. — PATTY. New Edition. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
Crown 8vo. zs.

MADOC, — THE STORY OF Reticent. By Fayr Madoc. Crown
Svo. 4». 6d.

MAGUIRE.- YOUNG PRINCE MARIGOLD, AND OTHER FAIRY
STORIES. By the late John Francis Maguire, M.P. Illustrated by S. E.
Waller. Globe Svo, gilt. 4s. 6d.

MAHAFFY. — Works by J. P. IMahaffy, M.A Fellow of Trinity College,
Dublin :—

SOCIAL LIFE IN GREECE FROM HOMER TO MENANDER. Fourth
Edition, enlarged, with New Chapter on Greek. Art. Crown Svo. gs.

RAMBLES AND STUDIES IN GREECE. Illustrated. Second Edition,
revised and enlarged, with Map. Crown Svo. 105. 6d.

THE DECAY OF MODERN PREACHING. An Essay. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.

Maletts. — MRS. LORIMER. A Novel. By Lucas Malett. Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. \^In tu press.

MASSON (Gustave.— LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and
arranged with Notes. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.

MASSON (Mrs.).— THREE CENTURIES OF ENGLISH POETRY:
being selections from Chaucer to Herrick, with Introductions and Notes by Mrs.
Mason and a general Introduction by Professor Mason. Extra cap. Svo.
3*. 6d.

b 2

MASSON (Professor). — Works by David MASSON, M.A., Professor of
Rhetoric and English Literature in the University of Edinburgh.

WORDSWORTH, SHELLEY, KEATS, AND OTHER ESSAYS. Crown
8vo. ss.

CHATTERTON : A Story of the Year 1770. Crown 8vo. 5^.

THE THREE DEVILS: LUTHER'S, MILTON'S AND GOETHE'S ; and

other Essays. Crown 8vo. 5s.

MAZINL — IN THE GOLDEN SHELL: A Story of Palermo. By Linda
Mazzini. With Illustrations. Globe 8vo, cloth gilt. 4s. 6d.

MEREDITH.— POEMS AND LYRICS OF THE JOY OF EARTH.

By George Meredith. Extra Cap. 8vo. 6s.

Derivable, — KEATS' HYPERION, rendered into Latin Verse. By
C. Derivable, B.D. Second Edition. Extra cap. 8vo. 3s. 6d.

Miller.— THE LILY OF LUMLEY. By Edith Miller. Crown 8vo,
■js. 6d.

MILTON'S POETICAL WORKS. Edited with Text collated from
the best Authorities, with Introductions and Notes, by David Mason.
(Uniform with the Cambridge Shakespeare.) With three Portraits engraved by
Jeens. Three Volumes. 8vo. 425. Cap. 8vo Edition. By the .'^ame Editor.
With Portraits. Three Vols. 15s. (Globe Edition.) By the same Editor. Globe
Svo. 35. 6d.

MISTRAL (F.). — Miracle, a Pastoral Epic of Provence. Translated by
H. Crichton. Extra cap. Svo. 6.y.

Milford (A. B.).— TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B. Milford,
Second Secretary to the British Legation in Japan. With Illustrations drawn
and cut on Wood by Japanese Artists. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
8vo. 6s.

Mohammed, SPEECHES AND Table-talk OF

THE PROPHET. Chosen and Translated by Stanley Lane-Poole.
imo. 4^. 6d. (Golden Treasury Series.)

Wordsworth. — Works by Mrs. Wordsworth (Ennis Graham).
TWO LITTLE WAIFS. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.
ROSY. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo. 4^. 6d.
SUMMER STORIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d.

THE ADVENTURES OF HERR BABY. With Twelve full-page Pictures by
Walter Crane. Globe 4to. 6s.

GRANDMOTHER DEAR. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Svo.
4s. 6d.

MOLE.SWORTH.— continued.

TELL ME A STORY. illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo. 4^. 6d.

"CARROTS"; JUST A LITTLE BOY. illustrated by Walter Crane.
Globe 8vo. 4y. 6d.

THE CUCKOO CLOCK. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo. 4^. 6d

THE TAPESTRY ROOM. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe 8vo.
4^. 6d.

A CHRISTMAS CHILD. Illustrated by Walter Crane. Globe Bvo. 4s. 6d.

MORE EXCELLENT WAY, THE. a Poem. Crowns. 4s.6d.

MORTE Arthur.— SIR THOMAS MALORY'S BOOK OF
King ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND
TABLE. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo. 3^. 6d.

MOULTON.— SWALLOW FLIGHTS. Poems by Louise Chandler
MoULTON. Extra cap. 8vo. 4^. 6d.

MOULTRIE.— POEMS by John Moultrie. Complete Edition. Two Vols.
CrowTi 8vo. js. each.

Vol. I. MY BROTHER'S GRAVE, DREAM Of LIFE, &c. With Memoir by

the Rev. Prebendary Coleridge.
Vol. II. L.\YS OF THE ENGLISH CHURCH, and other Poems. With notices

of the Rectors of Rugby, by M. H. Bloxham, F.R.A.S.

MRS. GANDER'S STORY. ByH.A. H. With Twenty-four Full-page
Illustrations by N. Huxley. Demy oblong. 35. 6d.

MUDIE.— STRAY LEAVES. By C. E. Muche. New Edition. Extra cap.
8vo. 3.y. 6d. Contents: — " His and Mine" — "Night and Day" — "One of
Many," &c.

MURRAY,— ROUND ABOUT FRANCE. By E. C. Grenville Murray

Crown 8vo. 7^'. 6d.

MYERS (Ernest.— Works by Ernest Myers.
THE PURITANS. Extra cap. 8vo, cloth. 2s. 6d.
POEMS. Extra cap. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

MYERS (F. W. H.).— Works by F. W. H. Myers.
ST. PAUL. A Poem. New Edition. Extra cap. 8vo. 2s. 6d.
THE RENEWAL OF YOUTH, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
ESSAYS. 2 Vols. I. Classical. II. Modern. Crown 8vo. 4^. 6d. each.

Naval.— Essays AT HOME AND ELSEWHERE. By E. S. Natal.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

Nichols. — Works by John Nichols, Ea., Oxon. , Regius Professor of English
Language and Literature in the University of Glasgow.

HANNIBAL, A HISTORICAL DRAMA. Extra cap. 8vo. js. 6d.

THE DEATH OF THEMISTOCLES, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra cap.
8vo-js. td.

NINE YEARS OLD. — By the Author of " St. Slave's," " When I was a
Little Girl," &c. Illustrated by Frolic. New Edition. Globe 8vo-zs. 6d.

NOEL, — BEATRICE AND OTHER POEMS. By the Hon. Rode Noel.
Cap. 8vo. 6s.

NORTON.— Works by the Hon. Mrs. Norton.

THE LADY OF LA GARAYE. With Vignette and Frontispiece. Eighth Edition.
Cap. 8vo. ^s. 6d.

OLD SIR DOUGLAS. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

OLIPHANT. — Works by Mrs. Oliphant.

THE LITERARY HISTORY OF ENGLAND in the end of the Eighteenth
and beginning of the Nineteenth Century. Cheaper Issue. With a New Preface.
3 Vols. Demy 8vo. dis.

AGNES HOPETOUN's SCHOOLS AND HOLIDAYS. New Edition, with
Illustrations. Globe 8vo. zs. 6d.

THE Suit KJV THE SOIL. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 2S.

THE CURATE IN CHARGE. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 2j.

YOUNG Misgave. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s.

HE THAT WILL NOT WHEN HE MAY. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 2j.

THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE : Dante, Giotto, Savonarola, and their City.
With Illustrations from Drawings by Professor Melmotte, and a Steel Portrait
of Savonarola, engraved by C. H. Jeens. New and Cheaper Edition with Preface.
Crown 8vo. Cloth extra. los. 6d.

THE BELEAGUERED CITY. Cheaper Edition, Crown 8vo. 6^.

DRESS. Illustrated. Crown Svo. zs. 6d. [Art at Horne Series.

OUR YEAR. A Child's Book, In Prose and Verse By the Author of
"John Halifax, Gentleman." Illustrated by Clarence Dobell. Royal imo.
zj. 6d.

PAGE.— THE LADY RESIDENT, by Hamilton Page. Three Vols. Crown
Svo-sis. 6d.

Palgrave. — Works by Francis Turner Palgrave, M.A., late Fellow
of Exeter College, Oxford.

THE FIVE DAYS' ENTERTAINMENTS AT WENTWORTH GRANGE.
A Book for Children. With Illustrations by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved
Title-page by Jeens. Small 4to, cloth extra. 6s.

LYRICAL POEMS. Extra cap. Svo. bs. ~"

ORIGINAL HYMNS. Third Edition, enlarged imo-ls. 6d.

Palsgrave {¥.1:.).— continued.

VISIONS OF ENGLAM D ; being a series of Lyrical Poems on Leading Events
ani Persons in English History. With a Preface and Notes. Crown 8vo. ^s. 6d.

GOLDEN TREASURY OF THE BEST SONGS AND LYRICS. Edited
by F. T. Palsgrave. imo. 4J. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS AND SONGS. Edited by F. T. Palsgrave.
With Vignette Title by Jeens. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.

THE CHILDREN'S TREASURY OF LYRICAL POETRY. Selected and
changed with Notes by F. T. Palgrave. imo. 2^-. 6d. And in Two Parts,
xs. each.

HERRICK: Selections FROM THE LYRICAL POEMS. With Notes.
(Golden Treasury Series.) iB.-no. 4^. 6d.

Pansies's FLOUR BIN. By the Author of "\Vhen I was a Little
Girl," " St. Slave's," &c. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes. Globe Bvo. 4^. 6d.

PATER. — THE RENAISSANCE. Studies in Art and Poetry. By Walter
Pater, Fell jw of Brasenose College, Oxford. Second Edition, Revised, with
Vignette engraved by C. H. Jeens. Crown Bvo. 10s. 6d.

PATMORE.— THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND, from the Best Poets.

Selected and arranged by Coventry Pat.more. New Edition. With Illustrations
by J. Law.so.v. (Golden Treasury Edition.) imo. 4^. 6d. Globe
Readings Edition for Schools, Globe 8vo, 2s.

PEEL.— ECHOES FROM HOREB, AND OTHER POEMS. By Edmund
Peel, Author of " An Ancient City," &c. Crown 8vo. 3J. 6d.

Member.— THE TRAGEDY OF LESBOS. A Dramatic Poem. By
E. H. Member. Cap. Bvo. 4J. 6d.

PEOPLE'S EDITIONS. Profusely Illustrated, medium 4to, 6d. each;
or complete in One Vol., cloth, 3^.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By an Old Boy.
Watertown's WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S OLD CHRISTMAS.
WASHINGTON IRVING'S Drawbridge HALL.

PHILLIPS (S. K.).— ON THE SEABOARD; and Other Poems.
Susan K. Phillips. Second Edition. Crown Bvo. 55.

PLATO. — THE REPUBLIC OF. Translated into English with Notes by
J. Ll, Davies, M.A., and D. J. Vaughan, M.A. (Golden Treasury Series.)
imo. 4s. 6d.

POEMS OF PLACES— (ENGLAND AND WHALES). Edited by
H. W. Longfellow. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. ^s. td.

POETS (ENGLISH). — SELECTIONS, with Critical Introduction by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. New Edition. Crown 8vo. js. 6d. each.

Vol. I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. 11. BEN JONSON TO DRYDEN.

Vol. III. ADDISON TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO ROSSETTI.

POOLE.— PICTURES OF COTTAGE LIFE IN THE WEST OF
ENGLAND. By Margaret E. Poole. New and Cheaper Edition. With
Frontispiece by R. Barren. Crown 8vo. 3^. 6d.

POPE. — POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited with Notes and Introductory
Memoir by Adolphus William Ward, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe 8vo'
35. 6d.

POPULATION OF AN OLD PEAR TREE. From the French
of E. Van Brussels, Edited by the Author of "The Heir of Radcliffe."
With Illustrations by Decker. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, gilt. 4^. 6d.

POTTER. — LANCASHIRE MEMORIES. By Louisa Potter. Crown
8vo. 6s.

PRINCE FLORESTAN OF MONACO, THE FALL OF.

By Himself. New Edition, with Illustration and Map. 8vo, cloth extra,
gilt edges. 5.?. A French Translation. SJ. Also an Edition for the People.
Crown 8vo. 19.

PUSHKIN.— EUGENE ONEGUINE. A Romance of Russian Life in Verse.
By Alexander Pushkin. Translated from the Russian by Lieut-col. Spalding.
Crown Svo. 6s.

RACHEL Oliver. — a Novel. Three Vols. Crown Svo. 31.^.6^.

REALM AH. — By the Author of " Friends in Council. Crown Svo. 6s.

REED, — MEMOIR OF SIR CHARLES REED. By His Son, Charles E.
B. Reed, M.A. With a Portrait. Crown 8vo. 4^. 6d.

Rhodes. — POEMS. By James Rhodes. Cap. 8vj. 4,s. 6d.

RICHARDSON. — the ILIAD of the east, a Selection of Legends
drawn from Valmiki's Sanskrit Poem, 'the Ramayana." By Frederica
Richardson. Crown Svo. 7^-. 6d.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. Edited, with Biographical Introduction, by
Henry Kingsley. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 3^ 6d — Golden Treasury
Edition. Edited by J. W. Clark, M.A. imo. 45-. 6d.

ROSS. — A Misguided lassie. By Percy Ross. Crown Svo. 4^.6^.

ROSSETTI.— Works by Christina Rossetti.
poems. Complete Edition, containing "Goblin Market," 'the Prince's

Progress," &c. With Four Illustrations by D. G. Rossetti. Extra cap. 8vo.

6s.
speaking LIKENESSES. Illustrated by Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo,

gilt edges. 4s. 6d.
A PAGEANT, AND OTHER POEMS. Extra cap. Svo. 6s.

ROSSETTI (D.G.).— DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI : a Record and a
Study. By William Sharp. With an Illustration after Dante Gabriel
Rossetti. Crown 8-. o. los. 6d.

RUTH AND HER FRIENDS. a Story for Girls. With a Frontispiece.
New Edition. Globe Svo. ■zs. 6d.

SCOURING OF THE WHITE HORSE; OR, THE Long
Vacate ")N RAMBLE OF A LONDON CLERK. By the Author of •' Tom
Brown's School Days." Illustrated by Doyle. Imp. imo. Cloth gilt. 5J.

SCOTT (SIR Walter.— POETICAL WORKS OF. Edited with a
Biographical and Critical Memoir by Francis Turner Palgrave. (Globe
Edition.) Globe Svo. 35. 6d.

THE LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL; and THE LADY OF THE

LAKE. Edited, with Introduction and Notes., by Francis Turner
Palsgrave. Globe 8vo. 15. (Gl jbe Readings for Schools.)

MARMION ; and THE LORD OF THE ISLES. By the same Editor.
Globe Svo. rs. (Globe Readings for Schools.)

SCOTTISH SONG.— A SELECTION OF THE CHOICEST LYRICS
OF SCOTLAND. By Mary Carlyle Aitken. (Golden Treasure' Series.)
imo. 4^'. 6d.

SEELEY — THE EXPANSION OF ENGLAND. Two Courses cf Lectures.
By J. R. Seeley, M.A., Regius Professor of Modern History in the University of
Cambridge, Felt of Glanville and Caius College, &c. Crown Svo. 45. 6d.

Melbourne (LORD). — THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best
English Hymn writers. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.

SERMONS OUT OF CHURCH. By the Author of 'john Halifax,
Gentleman." Crown Svo. 6s.

SHAKESPEARE. — The Works of William Shakespeare. Cambridge
Edition. Edited by W. George Clark, M.A., and W. Al: is Wright, M.A.
Nine Vols. Svo, cloth.

SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited, by W. G.
Clark, M.A., and W. Alors Wright, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo.
2,s. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited, %vith

Notes, by Francis Tui<;NER P.\lgrave. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo.
4^. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE PHRASE BOOK, THE. By John Bartlett.
Author of " Familiar Quotations." Globe Svo. 12.S. 6J.

SHAKESPEARE.— CHARLES LAMB'S TALES FROM Shakespeare.
Edited, with Preface, by Rev. A. Aixger. (I'.olden Treasury
Series.) imo. 45. 6d. Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe Svo, 2s.

SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS. An attempt to determine the Chronological
Order. By the Rev. H. Pane Stokes, B.A. Extra cap. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

SHAKESPEARE'S TEMPEST. Edited, with Gl.ssarlal and Ex.
planetary' Notes, by the Rev. J. M. Jefhson. New Edition. imo. is.

Storehouse. — JOHN Inelegant : A ROMANCE. By J. H.
Shorthouse. 2 Vols. New and Cheaper Edition. Globe 8 vo. 12s.

Popular Edition. Crown 8 vo. 6s.

SHELLEY.— POEMS OF SHELLEY. Edited by Stafford A. Brooke.
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. td. Also a fine Edition printed on hand-made
paper. Crown 8vo. 125. 6^.

Sedley. — TWO DRAMATIC POEMS. By Manilla Bute Sedley.
Author of "Lady Grace' &c. Extra cap. 8vo. 6j.

SMITH. — POEMS. By Catherine Barnard Smith. Cap. 8vo. is.

SMITH,— Works by Rev. Walter C. Smith.
HILDA AMONG THE BROKEN GODS. New Edition. Cap. 8vo. 7^. 6^.
NORTH COUNTRY FOLK. Poems. Crown Bvo. 7^. td.

SMITH.— THREE ENGLISH STATESMEN. A Course of Lectures on the
Political History of England. By Godwin Smith. New Edition. Crown
Bvo. 5.y.

SONG BOOK. WORDS AND TUNES FROM THE BEST POETS
AND MUSICIANS. Selected and arranged by John Hullah. (Golden
Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.

^^S^^?^-~ COMPLETE WORKS OF. Edited by the Rev. R. Morris,
M.A., LLD., with a Memoir by J. W. Hales, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe
Bvo. 3J-. 6d.

c — Addresses and Sermons delivered during a Visit to the United

States and Canada in 1878. By Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, Dad., late
Dean of Westminster. Crown 8vo. 6s.

STEPHEN (C. E.).— THE SERVICE OF THE POOR; being an
Inquiry into the Reasons for and against the Establishment of Religious Sisterhoods
for Charitable Purposes. By Caroline Emilia Stephen. Crown Bvo.
6s. td.

TANNER.— THE ABBOTT'S FARM: or, PRACTICE WITH SCIENCE
By Henry Tanner, M.R.A.C, F.C.S., late Professor of Principles of Agriculture
in the Royal Agricultural College; Examiner in the Principles of Agriculture
under the Government Department of Science. Author of "First Principles
of Agriculture," &c. Extra cap. 8vo. 3^-. td.

Tare (Hannah.— A STORY FOR CHILDREN. Illustrated by
W. J. Hennessey. Crown 8vo. \.Just ready.

THE RUNAWAY. By the Author of "Mrs. Jerningham's Journal." With
Illustrations. Globe 8vo. 2S. 6d.

THIRTY YEARS.— BEING POEMS NEW AND OLD. By the Author
of '• John Halifax. Gentleman." New Edition. Crown Svo. 6s.

THOMPSON.— A HANDBOOK TO THE PUBLIC PICTURE Galleries
OF EUROPE. With a brief sketch of the History of the various
Schools of Painting from the thirteenth century to the eighteenth, inclusive. By
Kate Thompson. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous
Illustrations. Crown Svo. 7s. td.

THROUGH THE RANKS TO A COMMISSION.— iv^^a„^

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. zs. td.

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By An Old Boy. With Seven
Illustrations by A. Hughes and Sydney Hall. Crown Svo. 6^. ; G^/Iden
Treasury Edition, ^^s.6d.\ People's Edition. 2.$. People's Sixpenny Illustrated
Edition. Medium 4to. td.

TOM BROWN AT OXFORD. New Edition. With Illustrations

Crown Svo. ts.

TOURGENIEF.— VIRGIN SOIL. By I. TouKGENiEF. Translated by
AsHTON" W. DiLiCE. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. ts.

TRENCH. —Works by R. Chexevix Trench, Dad., Archbishop of Dublin
(For other Works by this Author, see Theological, Historical, and Philosophical
Catalogues.)

POEMS. Collected and arranged anew. Cap. Svo. ts. td.

HOUSEHOLD BOOK OF ENGLISH POETRY. Selected and arranged, with
Notes, by Archbishop Trench. Third Edition, revised. Extra cap. Svo.
5 J. td.

SACRED LATIN POETRY. Chiefly Lyrical. Selected and arranged for Use.
By Archbishop Trench. Third Edition, Corrected and Improved. Cap. Svo.
7^

TYRWHITT.— OUR SKETCHING CLUB. Letters and Studies on Landscape
Art. By the Rev. R. St. John Tyrwhitt, M.A. With an Authorised
Reproduction of the Lessons and Woodcuts in Professor Ruskin's " Elements of
Drawing." New Edition. Crown Svo. 7.^. td.

VIRGIL.— THE WORKS OF. Rendered into English Prose. By John
Lonsdale, M.A., and Samuel Lee, M.A. (Globe Edition.) Globe Svo. 3.^. td.

WARD. — ENGLISH POETS. Selections, \vith Critical Introductions by
various writers, and a general Introduction by Matthew Arnold. Edited by
T. H. Ward, M.A. Four Vols. Crown Svo-js. td. each.

Vol I. CHAUCER TO DONNE.

Vol. II. BEN Jonson TO DRYDEN.

Vol. III. ADDIS 3N TO BLAKE.

Vol. IV. WORDSWORTH TO ROSSETTI.

WARD (Samuel.— LYRICAL RECREATIONS. By Samuel Ward.
Cap. 8vo. lust ready.

WARD (MRS. T. H.).— Silly AND OLLr ; or, a Holiday among the
Mountains. By Mrs. T. H. Ward. Illustrated by Mrs. Alma Tadema. Globe
8vo. 28. 6d.

Webster. — Works by Augusta Webster.

DRAMATIC STUDIES. Extra cap. 8vo. ss-

A WOMAN SOLD, AND OTHER POEMS. Crown Svo. 75. 6d.

PORTRAITS. Second Edition. Extra cap. Svo. 3^. 6d.

THE AUSPICIOUS DAY. A Dramatic Poem. Extra cap. Svo. 5s.

YU-PE-YA's LUTE. A Chinese Tale in English Verse. Extra cap. Svo. 3s. 6d.

A HOUSEWIFE'S OPINIONS. Crown Svo. 7^. 6d.

A BOOK OF RHYME. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.

WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL. BytheAuthor of "St. Slaves."
Illustrated by L. Frolic. Globe Svo. 2s. 6d.

WHEN PAPA COMES HOME : The Story of Tip, Tap, Toe. By
the Author of " Nine Years Old," " Pansies's Flour Bin," &c. With Illustrations
by W. J. Hennessy. Globe Svo. 4s. 6d.

WHITE.— RHYMES BY WALTER WHITE. Svo. 7^. 6d.

Whittier-JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER'S POETICAL Works
Complete Edition, with Portrait engraved by C. H. Jeens. imo. 4J. 6d.

WILLOUGHBY.— FAIRY GUARDIANS. A Book for the Young. By
F. WiLLOUGHBY. Illustrated. Crown Svo, gilt. 5J.

WOOLNER. — Works by Thomas Woolner, R.A.

MY BEAUTIFUL LADY. With a Vignette by A. Hughes. Third Edition

Cap. Svo. ss.

PYGMALION. A Poem. Crown Svo. 7^. 6d.

WORDS FROM THE POETS. Selected hy the Editor of "Ray
of Sunlight." With a Vignette and Frontispiece. imo, limp. is.

WORDSWORTH.— SELECT POEMS OF. Chosen and Edited, with
Preface, by Matthew Arnold. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4s. 6d.
Fine Edition. Crown Svo, hand-made paper, with Portrait of Wordsworth,
engraved by C. H. Jeens, and Printed on India Paper, gs.

YONGE (C. M.). — New Illustrated Edition of Novels and Tales by Charlotte

M. Yonge.

In Nineteen Volumes. Crown Svo. 6s. each : —
Volet. THE HEIR OF Radcliffe. With illustrations by Kate Greenaway.



II. Heartless. With Illustrations by Kate Gree.vaway.

III. HOPES AND FEARS. With Illustrations by Herbert Gandy.

lY. DYNEVOR TERRACE. With illustrations by Adrian Stokes.

V. THE DAISY CHAIN. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson,

VI. THE TRIAL. Illustrated by J. P. Atkinson.

VII. & VIII. THE PILLARS OF THE HOUSE; or, UNDER Mode.
UNDER RODE. Illustrated by Herbert Gandy. Two Vols.

IX. THE YOUNG STEPMOTHER. New Edition. Illustrated by Maria
Huxley.

X. CLEVER WOMAN OF THE FAMILY. New Edition. Illustrated
by Adrian Stokes.

XL THE THREE BRIDES. Illustrated by Adrian Stokes.

XII. MY YOUNG Allies ; or, A FADED PHOTOGRAPH. Illustrated
by Adrian Stokes.

XIII. THE CAGED LION. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XIV. THE DOVE IN THE EAGLE'S NEST. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XV. THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS; or. THE WHITE AND BLACK
RIBAUMONT. illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XVI. LADY HESTER : AND THE Dangers PAPERS. Illustrated by

Jane E. Cook.

XVII. MAGNUM BONUM; or, MOTHER CAREY'S BROOD. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy.

XVIII. LOVE AND LIFE. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

XIX. UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. A Novel. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

[/« the press.

YONGE (CM.).— Works by Charlotte M. Yonge: —

STRAY PEARLS: MEMOIRS OF MARGARET DE RIBAUMONT,
VISCOUNTESS OF BELLAISE. Two Vols. Crown Svo. qs.

THE PRINCE AND THE PAGE. A Tale of the Last Crusade. Illustrated.

New Edition. Globe Svo. ins. 6d.

THE LANCES OF Logwood. New Edition. With Illustrations. imo.
4S. 6d.

BELLES LETTRES.

YONGE (C. M.)—contimied.

THE LITTLE DUKE: RICHARD THE FEARLESS. New Edition.
Illustrated. Globe 8vo. 4^. 6d.

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS OF ALL TIMES AND ALL Countries,
Gathered and Narrated Anew. (Golden Treasury Series. ) ^s. 6d.
Globe Readings Edition for Schools, Globe 8vo, is. Cheap Edition, us.

LITTLE LUCY'S WONDERFUL GLOBE. Illustrated by L. Frolic.
Globe 8vo. 4^. 6d,

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. (Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS IN SPAIN
(Golden Treasury Series.) imo. 4^. 6d.

CAMEOS FROM ENGLISH HISTORY, From Rollo to Edward II.
Third Edition, enlarged. Extra cap. Svo. ss.

Second Series. THE WARS IN FRANCE. New Edition. Extra cap
Svo. 5^.

Third Series. THE WARS OF THE ROSES. Extra cap. Svo. 5^.
Fourth Series. REFORMATION TIMES. Extra cap. Svo. s^-
Fifth Series. ENGLAND AND SPAIN. Extra cap. Svo. 5^.

P'S AND Q'S; or, THE QUESTION OF PUTTING UPON. With
Illustrations by C. O. Murray. New Edition. Globe Svo, cloth gilt. 45. 6d.

Byword: A COLLECTION OF TALES NEW AND OLD. Crown Svo.
6s.



MACMILLAN'S 4s. 6cl, SERliiib.

Volume.
Marion

Marion

Edition.

Now Publishing iji O'own ^ro, Price 4s. 6d. each
MR. ISAACS. A Tale of Modern India. By F.

Crawford.
DOCTOR CLAUDIUS. A True Story. By F.

Crawford.

DEMOCRACY: An American Novel. Popular

Paper C vers. ONE SHILLING.
ONLY A WORD, By Dr. Georg Ebers, Author of "The

Egyptian Princess." Sic Translated by Clara Bell.
THE' BURGOMASTER'S WIFE, A Tale of the Siege of

Leyden. By Dr. Georg Peers. Translated by Clara Bell.
STRAY PEARLS. Meme irs of Margaret de Ribaiimoi t, Viscountess

of Bellaise. By Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 Vols.

UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

Author rf •■• The Heir of Reddvfte." 2 vols.

THE STORY OF Reticent. By Fayr Madoc.

BUT YET A WOMAN. A Novel. By Arthur Sherburne

Hardy. Popular Edition, Paper Covers, ONE SHILLING.

A GREAT TREASON. A Story of the War of Independence.

By May Hoppus. 2 vrl-^. ,

A Misguided LASSIE. By Percy Ross.
THE Mis MAZE; or, The Wentworth Puzzle.

Letters by Nine Authors. Crown 8vo.
MRS. LORIMER: A Sketch in Black and White.
Malett. New Edition

CAMPING AMONG CANNIBALS. By

Johnston.
MEMOIR OF DANIEL MACMILLAN.

Hughes, Q.C. With a Portrait Engraved en Steel by C.
Painting by Lowes Dickinson. Fifth Thousand.
ONE SHILLING.

MEMOIR OF ANNIE Weary. By Eliza

a Portrait. Third Thousand

MEMOIR OF SIR CHARLES REED.

Charles E. B. Reed, IM.A. With a Portrait.
LECTURES ON ART. Delivered in support of the Society for

Protection of Ancient Buildings. By Regd. Stuart Poole, Professor W. B.

Richmond, E. J. Poynter, R.A , J. T. Micklethwaite, and William

Morris.
THE Burma ; His Life and

2 Vols.

FOLK TALKS OF BENGAL.

Author of " Bengal Peasant Life."

ESSAYS. By F. W. H. Myers,

II. — Idem. Each 4J. 6d.
THE EXPANSION OF ENGLAND. By Prof. J. R. Seeley,
PORTRAITS OF PLACES. By Henry James, Author of

"The American." "The Europeans," &c. [/« the press.

FRENCH POETS AND NOVELISTS. By Henry James,

Author of " The American," "The Europeans," &c. New Edition.

[/« the press.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

A Story in
[/;« the press.

By Lucas

[/« the press.

Alfred St.

[/« the press.

By Thomas

H. Been's, from a
Popular Edition.

Keary. With

By his Son,

Notions. By Sway Yoe.

By the Rev. Lal Behari Day,

M.A. 2 Vols. I. — Classical.

"The new venture is a very excellent return for sixpence. . . .
There has never been anything seen like it for the money." — The
World,

** It is wonderfully cheap and it is good in all respects most
excellent." — St. Natives's Gazette.

NOW PUBLISHING,

THE

iSnolisb Jllustmteb fIDaoasine.

Single Numbers, price Sixpence, by Post, Eighteen.
Yearly Subscription, post-free, 7s. 6d.

The price at which the English Illustra ' ed Magazine is
issued justifies the belief that it will appeal to a large and varied circle
of readers, and an endeavour will be made in the choice and arrangement
of its contents to satisfy the tastes of all who are interested in
Literature and Art.

The English Illustrated Magazine is designed for the
entertainment of the home, and f )r the instruction and amusement of
young and old, and it will be conducted in the belief that every section
of its readers, in whatever direction their tastes and interests may tend,
are prepared to demand and to appreciate the best that can be offered
to them.

The prominent place assigned to illustration will demand the
exercise of special care in the preparation of the Engravings for the
Magazine, and in this department no pains will be spared to secure
satisfactory results.

Contributors to the

The following, among others, are

current Volume

WRITERS.

Grant Allen.
Bernard H. Decker.
William Black.

J. Coins Carr.

Austin Dobson.

Archibald Geikie. F. Res.

A. J. Hopkins.

Professor Huxley, P.R.S.

Richard Jefferies.

F. W. Maitland.

Frederick Pollock.

J. H. Shorthouse.

R. L. Stevenson.

a. c. swinburne.

The Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman."
Charlotte M. Yonge.

ARTISTS.

Harry Furnish.

C. Napier Hey.
BuRNE Jones.
Robert Macbeth.
A. Morrow.

J. W. North.
L. R. O'Brien.
Alfred Parsons.

D. G. Rossetti.
L. Alma Tadema.
Charles Whimper.

ENGRA VERS.

J. D. Cooper.
W. & J. Cheshire.
Theodore Knowing.
O. Labour.
R. Paterson.
W. Quick.

MACMILLAN & CO., BEDFORD STREET, LONDON, W.C.
London: r. clay, sons, and taylor, printers.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

HlGGb
V.3

BY

BAEBAEA Elbow

m THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME III.

ILontiott

Macmillan Al^D CO.


V. 3

PART II.

continued.)

VOL. III.

We have one element that makes fo' peace ; and another's
element that makes fo' strife — ; but, my-de'-seh, the peace element
is that which ought to make the strife, and the strife
element is that which ought to be made to keep the peace.' —
Geo. "W. Cable.

My-de'-seh, you mus' crack the egg, not smash it.' — Ibid,

The next day came the first letter from Eene.
What a rush of conflicting emotions swept
through Bethesda's mind at the sight of the
familiar writing and crest. Delight, poignant
memories, satisfaction, and trembling uncertainty,
were all finally engulfed in a deep and
sure tenderness.

She took the letter into her own room to read.
It was written while he was still in Liverpool,
and when he was in the full surge of a passionate
grief which swept him ofi" his feet. To the

woman, struggling for pure light, for equipoise,
and stainless chastity, it was inexpressibly painful.
Alas ! that this should be the letter written
when he was most vividly under her influence !

Mabel had heard that Beth had received a
foreign letter, and came in to see it. Her face
was accusing and obdurate. Nothing, Bethesda
knew by experience, could possibly please her
then. But of course the letter, the knowable
letter, had to be given her ; and Bethesda did
not conceal that there was one enclosed. The
whole affair made Mabel excessively angry. She
had been duped and cheated, and there was noway
in which she could indemnify herself. She
could not break off the correspondence, because
it was already broken, and before the time came
for resuming it Bethesda would be of age and
independent. She tried to get the girl to say
she would not read any of the letters from Eene
that came before his answer to her steamer letter ;
but all requests on this head were steadily refused.

Still, Bene had taken his strongest advocate
away in robbing himself of Bethesda's approval.
The torrent of anger and abused feeling, which
Mabel gave more force by somewhat striving to
control, found the dykes of Bethesda's precious
land already partially undermined. But she
made a loyal defence, and worked hard to draw
the tide towards her own delinquencies — where
the land was less precious — instead of Eene's.
She was not very successful. Had not Mabel
reared Bethesda from her cradle ? Did she not
know every tendency of the girl, as though her
soul had been crystal ? Was it any education of
hers that had fostered concealment and deceit ?
Had she not always been frank as the day herself,
and brought up Beth to revere frankness ?
She scorned the idea that her niece, her darling,
had been most to blame in this unworthy affair !
She had been tempted, been beguiled in the
Eden of her innocence, and Bene, whom she, the
too fond Mabel, had trusted, was the odious serpent

! Well, not quite that, perhaps. Some
sense of fairness still slumbering under the
tumultuous swerving of lier nature turned uneasily
in its sleep, and site smoothed the pillows
by granting that it might be he was an Adam —
the wicked Adam ! who at all costs must be
driven out of the heaven of her niece's heart.

When Bethesda emerged from that conversation
she looked exhausted to an alarming degree.
Margaret felt a smouldering fire of resentment
against Mrs. Trescott for treating Beth in such a
manner when she was already miserable in health ;
but she said nothing.

Agatha, as usual, acted. She drew Beth
down on the lounge, ordered some iced wine, and
then, when the two girls were sipping and talking
easily, she slipped away for a moment, and
was gone an hour in Mrs. Trescott's room.

But Mabel was not amenable to reason or
prudence. She hated that word ! she must be
frank ; she would be frank with Beth if it cost

her lier life, or any one's ! Then, less excitedly,
but with a great air of determination, she told
her sister that this matter, that Beth, must be
left absolutely to her. She would brook no interference
in an affair of which she alone knew
the importance, and which she alone could
manage. She knew what she was doing, and
she knew, Dieu salt ! what she had failed to do.
She was not croino^ to make that mistake ao;ain.
It is possible,' here said Agatha, ' that you

are trying to repair past errors by a greater one

now '

That only proves how little you know about

it,' interrupted Mabel.

I know this, at least : Beth is not strong

enough to endure what she is now undergoing,

and yet she has a character which will not pelt

to importunity. Between the two her body will

be mangled.'

There are some things of more value than

health or life even. And as to importunity.

didn't Christ himself say that we should even
importune God when we wished what was right V

'He certainly in no place told us to coerce
others to do as we thought right. That is a
doctrine which made the Inquisition. Look toit,
Mabel, that you do not work more harm than
good. If it is a question of honour, as I judge
from your words — wait a minute, please ; let me
finish — remember that there are three thousand
miles between her and Europe. Moreover, if
you are afraid they will be crossed, leave Beth
with Ealeigh and me. I will warrant you no one
can harm her then 1'

No,' exclaimed Mabel quickly ; ^ no one can
do anything for her but I myself. It isn't
enemies without but enemies within that I fear.
And yet there is not a thought of harm in her !
She is deceived ! deceived ! I must and will
protect her. You know nothing about it ; you
must leave me alone.'

She is like her mother,' said Agatha. * You

may coiL\T.nce lier, or yon may kill lier; yoii
never can force lier. And she is not in a physical
condition to bear argument now. Can t you see
that she is worn out, just ready to be ill ? If
you compel her to endure such scenes as this
she has had to-day you must be prepared for
disastrous consequences. If you temporise you
may help both body and mind.'

Temporise !' cried Mabel, starting up almost
with a shriek ; ' temporising has been a poisoned
dagger to her ! Every instant it remains in her
flesh it becomes more dangerous ! It shall be
pulled out ! Doesn't the Bible say : ^' It is better
to go into heaven maimed than with two hands
to be cast into hell-fire ?" I tel you, you know
nothing about it. And yet she is as pure as an
angel !'

Agatha saw the worse than uselessness of
more words, and left her. She was amazed, even
astounded, at the condition of her sister, and
with every word that had been spoken she had

realised more the imperative need of Beth's being
separated from Mabel for a while. But low
could it be accomplished ? Mabel, she perceived,
was extremely jealous, and would allow no one
to exert any influence counteractive to her own.
It would be impossible to overcome this Agatha
clearly saw. The next best thing would be for
them to be altogether, where she could screen
Beth somewhat ; and, indeed, as she had long
since planned, on grounds of pleasure alone.

The household was not so congenial, with
Mabel fretting against the heat and laying Bethesda's
tired appearance all to that, for plans to
be long delayed.

I don't see why we shouldn't go tomorrow,'
exclaimed Mabel. ' It is blistering here.'

Where do you think of going ? '

Oh, I don't know. There are plenty of
places. The Catskills, the AUeghanies, the
White Mountains.'

How would you like the Rocky Mountains ?

It will be something new to you both, and it is
well worth seeing. Ealeigh and I are expecting
to go in a short time now.'

Oh, you couldn't induce me ! I abhor the
west. The east may be endurable ; I am sure I
hope so ; but deliver me from this rough, ugly
western life ! And it must be a great deal worse
out so far.'

Agatha quietly explained the advantages and
pleasures of Colorado, — the grand scenery, and
curiosity of ]pioneer civilisation. She also remarked
that the dry air there would probably
invigorate Beth as nothing else could do. It
would be a complete change for her, and would
benefit Margaret as well. They could make a
pleasant family party if they all liked it.

Of course it would be charming for us all to
be together,' said Mabel; but,' conclusively,
you see I hate the west. Why don't you come
with us ? There is fishing and hunting east, no
doubt.'

Ealeigh. has found that there is none worth
seeking,' interposed Agatha, studying her sister
keenly.

'Well,' exclaimed Mabel, with a toss of her
head, * I don't know why we should all go where
it will best suit one man. It hasn't been my
habit to let others dictate my actions, and, for
my part, I had rather be alone than not go east.'

'You certainly have a great love of places,'
remarked Agatha, with controlled satire. 'But
how about the health question ? Physicians
have told me repeatedly that it would be excellent
for Margaret, and probably it would be the
best thing to be done for Beth.'

Oh, they are not in the least alike. I have
heard, too, that rare air is very dangerous for
heart troubles. I don't think it would be right
at all to risk it. I never would consent to it.'

She seemed to consider the matter quite
settled by this, but Agatha had no thought of
yielding to so flimsy a reason.

Have her heart examined and leave it to the
physician,' she said, a trifle shortly.

She never would consent to that, and if she
did, I have no confidence in physicians. They
are miserably ignorant.'

It is possible, however, that they may know
more than we, since they devote their lives to
the study of medicine,' replied Agatha, and let
the subject drop.

Later she called Bethesda aside and asked her
if she would object to having her heart examined.
Beth shrank from it, and Agatha
explained her reasons.

Oh, if you think Margaret needs Colorado,
let us go without minding me,' said Bethesda
eagerly.

I think it would be as good for you as for
Margaret if your heart is sound; but, dear, I
don't wish you to run any risk.'

I confess I would rather not know the state
of my heart,' said Bethesda at last.

^ Why not?'

'Because — well, it has troubled me some of
late, and '

That is sufficient reason in itself, then, why
you should have it examined. Be reasonable,
dear. I could always appeal with confidence to
your reason when you were a child. If you
think about it calmly you will see that you
should have all the light you can. It is never
well to hide our eyes for fear of what we may
see, nor did it ever use to be your way.'

Bethesda was ' reasonable,' and an hour later
Mrs. Stanhope was always expeditious — a
physician somewhat celebrated for his treatment
of heart troubles appeared. He inquired minutely
into Miss Hamilton's heredity, looked grave
on hearing of the circumstances of her mother's
death, made his examination, and studied on the
case.

Mrs. Stanhope took him into the next room
to hear his opinion, and Bethesda was left palpitating

more with, hope than fear. Heart disease !
that would mean that any sudden shock or long
strain would kill her. Life need not be prolonged
beyond the loss of hope and love. Incase
of the worst, death would relieve her.

They returned.

Have I heart disease V asked Bethesda, looking
up in the physician's face with a peculiarly
bright smile. It was as if she had asked : Can
I really be happy soon ?

He stood and looked doTvn at her half a
minute before he answered.

No he said then slowly, and he saw her
face fall. ' No, you have not heart disease, but
you have a functional disorder which will terminate
in organic trouble if you are not extremely
careful. You know neither one nor the other
means death. You should understand clearly
that heart disease means suffering much more
frequently than it does death. If you are like
your aunt here, that will make it more emphatic

to you when I say you must avoid all strong
emotions and all excitement. You must lead a
lazy life, think little, take tonics, and live in the
open air. If you do this you will perhaps escape
the disease.'

She glanced at him, and away, with an incredulous
smile trembling around her sad lips.
To tell her she must avoid emotion, excitement,
thought, and in her present circumstances 1 He
read her better than she guessed, however, and
he appreciated the hopelessness of that smile.

'And you said about Colorado?' suggested
Mrs. Stanhope.

She had better try no experiments. It
might help and might injure her ; I would not
undertake to say which. I should advise her
going to the seashore, or not very high among
the White Mountains.'

He turned to bow profoundly as he bade them
good-morning, and gave another keen glance at
his patient. She interested him as a curiosity.

The fortitude and mobility that mingled in her
face indicated how foolish his advice must seem to
her. He knew it was foolish too, and yet it was
true. Probably if he ever saw her again, it
would be in the clutches of an incurable agony.

So Mrs. Trescott had it her own way. Mrs.
Stanhope was seriously concerned for Beth, but
did not see her way to doing anything for her at
present. It was hard for her to be inactive, and
to this was added the shock of finding Mabel
insensible to old ties, when her own heart had
ached for the far-away sister, her nearest relative.
Domestic love made the very warp of her nature,
and each thread had to be pulled out with persistent
effort before she could or would relinquish
the band of rich colour each loved person wove
into her life. She had not now the slightest
intention of giving up her sister, but would
patiently wait and work — waiting always meant
working with her — to the end of a complete
recovery.

VOL. III. c

h

Mabel herself was much shocked in discovering
Beth's critical condition. Mrs. Stanhope
told her quite plainly, not sparing the details
and prognosis. She wished to impress Mabel with
the necessity of avoiding these exciting discussions,
and Mabel was quite sufficiently impressed,
for the time at least. She went to Beth, and put
her arms about her, and begged her to take care
of herself, to spare herself these wearying questions,
to put them all away by simply agreeing
to the year's silence, and then waiting until she
was stronger before she thought them out. But
when she found Bethesda unshaken in her resolution
to guide her own soul, to do as she thought
right, come what might, then Mabel asked herself
how she was to do anything when Beth would
not consent ? How could she shield her niece from
bodily terrors when her soul was in the clutches
of evil, and she alone could loosen the grasp ?

They remained in S but a few days longer,

and then went over the long dusty road east

again. It was a silly thing, in Mabel's opinion,
their ever having gone west. Business could have
been attended to some other time just as welland
this was an unnecessary expense and fatigue.
As to pleasure, what pleasure could there be in
going back and forth over this rough railroad,
through the scorching land ?

Margaret was silent when such things were
said, and Bethesda was too weary to argue, nor
would it have done any good if she had. To
fight with a windmill was nothing to fighting
with Mrs. Trescott's variable opinions.

Moreover, Bethesda's whole strength was
strained in solving the questions daily, hourly,
thrust in on her attention. It was an appalling
change that had come to her. The complete
difference in mental and moral atmosphere between
the old world and the new, altered every
glimpse of every fact that Bethesda saw. Her
position was changed, and her past and present
and future had all fallen into chaos together. If

the central part of the universe were suddenly-removed
to its outer circumference, the stars and
planets would not fly more wildly through space
than did the shattered thoughts of Bethesda's
mental system.

Mrs. Trescott also felt it, and the confusion it
engendered was proved by her saying to Beth once :

I believe you never could have endured this
coming to America and its influences if I had not
known. You would have had brain fever ; there
is no doubt of it.'

I do not think so,' said Bethesda ; nor did
she at any time. Her aunt's knowledge of the
affair only thwarted and exhausted her ; more
within even than without. Had Mrs. Trescott
not known more than when Rene left them, it
doubtless would have been hard, — the struggle,
the awakening, would inevitably have come, —
but it would have been less hard for Bethesda
than now, when she felt her aunt's incessant
pushing weight behind her, and the watching

that made each throe observed, and computed as
so much done or undone. She sometimes felt
it to be absolutely unbearable, and she would
have given the world for a little privacy, for an
instant blank of scrutinising eyes. To be alone
at times is a vital necessity to those in great
trouble. There are sacred moments when the
dearest cannot intrude without causing pain, and
they often are the hours of travail when the
priceless gift of peace is born.

So Bethesda, with the instinct of self-preservation,
avoided being alone with her aunt, and
this was easier to do since Margaret accompanied
them for their summer east, and the sisters of
course were almost constantly together. Margaret
was taking now the undisputed place of a
loved child to Bethesda. She was really the
elder, and yet Beth was always the one to be
addressed as Miss Hamilton, and given, without
hesitation, the position of eldest.

There was an innocence and simplicity about

Margaret wliicli was essentially childlike, and her
petite figure and extreme fairness aided the
appearance of youth. Her hair was like a tangle
of sunbeams, not golden, but recalling the morning
light while the shadows are yet long : her
delicately-finished eyebrows, arched over 'myrtle-eyes,'
as Bethesda called them, which were capable
of much passion, as well as a steely glitter
when displeased. Generally, however, she was
gentle and sweet. She reminded one, indeed, of
a virgin by Raphael, and possessed the mystic
devotion and absorption in higher things which,
combined with purity, may have been the traits
of Mary.

She clung to Bethesda as to one for whom
alone life was worth living, and yet held her ina
large enough embrace for her to be able to turn
freely in it : even to turn away at times, and
yet, upon return, to find the same warm light
in the tender eyes. But this capacity for devotion
only balanced an irritability of judgment

wliicli might otherwise have been stern, perhaps
merciless. Had any one done wrong, whether
Margaret loved much or little, the love she had
given would swiftly return into her own bosom,
although it might force life out in the process.
An absolute incapacity for worshipping a fallen
idol made her look upon another who did so with
nothing more pitiful than a stare of amazement.
Yet if one did wrong, and repented in act, her
forgiveness would be full and obliterating, and
one would have considered the effort made to
obtain it well spent. She would help, she would
try to help, neither one nor the other of these
instincts. Her whole character was so built on
this fatality of cause and effect that to conceive
anything else in herself was impossible, — more,
indifferent to her. AYorth and love went together
with her ; reciprocation would have been of little
consequence, so that her ideal remained intact.
That fallen, and the pride which was inherent in
her would have lifted her above all possibility of

kneeling in the dust to pick up and piece together
the fragments, and fancy it was as perfect
as before. A dent in the sword of life was
always a dent to her ; there was no compromise
or illusion about that ; but it might be rendered
ignoble or glorious as defeat or victory followed.
If defeat, the sword was broken, and useless to
her ; if victory, she would have been capable of
sheathing it in her own heart, could such a deed
protect it from injury.

And this was the woman who now nestled
close to Bethesda's side, and encompassed her
with an unobtrusive tenderness. Her unsuspicious
exterior and intelligent confidence tranquillised
Bethesda unspeakably, and she felt a
great gratitude growing in her heart which made
her little sister hourly more precious.

The three left New York for the White Mountains
on a shady afternoon in midsummer. As
the hills appeared, and seemed to increase in
height, they were seen through a shimmer of

opal, that rendered their blue tints soft and
ethereal.

Mabel was in raptures.

Just to be east again is a joy to me ! And
look at those hills ; why, one could almost fancy
we were going; to see the Italian lakes ! Alas !
for la bella Italia !'

It is hardly like Italy said Bethesda. ' One
never sees the violets, purples, and amethystine
shades in America. Here it is a deep, true,
perfect blue. It is like a clarion note that never
changes into any other, but only grows surer and
fuller as it increases.'

You speak as if you liked it better,' said
Margaret. She herself longed for Italy.

'No, not better,' answered Bethesda slowly.
There is something steadfast and reliant about
it, but the tenderness and loveliness of Italy
do not belong to us. Browning would call
this, I suppose, a masculine land, and Italy feminine.
I think Mrs. Eandleth described the

difference better, when she said that Italy was
like a lover and England like a husband.'

What queer fancies that woman had ! ' exclaimed
Mabel.

'Poetic ones, I should say,' returned Margaret,
with interest. 'Tell me more about
her.'

If you once get Beth on that subject, you
will never get her off!' said Mabel. 'I'll
leave ! '

In spite of this remark, and perhaps because
of Mrs. Trescott's move to the other side of the
car, and her novel, Margaret succeeded in leading
Bethesda into a frank description of her friend,
and, almost before she was aware, Beth found
herself talking with ease of all her friends, and
frequently mentioning M. d'Isten.

What is he like ? ' asked Margaret at last.
You have spoken very little of him, yet he was
quite intimate apparently.' ^

Yes, he was a warm friend of both auntie's

and mine replied Betliesda, commanding her
voice.

Aunt Mabel does not speak of him much.'

No ; they had a misunderstanding just at
the last, but I hope it will be satisfactorily explained.'


You like him very much, then V

^1 admire him, and honour him,' replied
Bethesda, with a proud steadiness.

Tell me about him ; what kind of a man is
he ? ' said Margaret simply, and Bethesda chose
tempered words, and wandered back through the
flowery fields of her life before the denouement,
hand-in-hand nth this pure-hearted sister.

It has been told us by a man who knew the
human soul marvellously well, that to remember
happiness in grief is our greatest misery, but
there do come hours when what made the past
radiant is lost for ever, and yet its remembrance
is our sole light; as, when the sun is set, its
reflection on the moon is all that relieves us from

black darkness. Bethesda found herself in this
moonlit land to-day, and it was a sweet, fine
pleasure to her. It seemed to lift the stigma of
confusion and possible dishonour off from her
soul, in returning thus to those surely innocent
hours in Florence, in their dear Italy.

As she talked, the sunset tinged rosily the
mist which still lingered in the atmosphere,
gathering and dissolving in ever-varied forms
and colours. The wooded slopes, the towering
crags, the lofty peaks, were all suffused by this
transparent blush, which came and went with a
shy waywardness, of itself indescribably lovely.
On every side soft clouds clung with white arms
to the stalwart necks of the rocks, or lay trembling
on the bosom of the hills. Little streams
rushed down impetuously to mingle with the
calmer river, while above arched the heavens,
luminous with amber and gold, amidst which
shone a brighter point, the evening star.

The dreamy monologue melted into this landscape

and became a part of it, as silence fell at
last. Margaret was impressed with she knew
not what unselfish sadness, and Bethesda felt
refreshed and sweetened by the aspect of these
everlasting hills clad in the colours of love and
truth.

Chapter lY.

Growth is the condition of love, as it is of life.'

In things evil there is a soul of goodness, and reformation
consists, not in annihilating the evil thing, but in developing
that soul of goodness within it, which gives it life and vigour,
and in directing it to the good which it erringly seeks.' —
Simpson's Philosophy of Shakespeare's Sonnets.

The summer passed in alternations of conflict,
victory, and despair. Every letter of Eene's,
written before he could receive hers, marked an
era; for Bethesda's was one of those natures
whose roots strike deep, clear their own way,
and win the light by growing.' She was not a
person who could rest with an unsolved doubt,
implying wrong action, in her mind. It was an
ever-present goad to her; it pricked her on to
indefatigable thought and ceaseless searching.
Sometimes she tottered under the weight she

carried, and yearned for some sure support until
she tliouo'bt lier soul would die for the want of
it. There must be something outside and beyond
herself, or Eene, or her aunt, or any one, and
this must be — what else could it be ? — the right.

And then a vivid remembrance would come to
her of how on shipboard Eene had said, with
long pauses between each phrase, and a strange
foresight in his eyes :

Mv Esda will trust me always : if I am old, —
or ugly, — or ill, — or unhajDj^y, — or wicked '

No,' she had interrupted, ' not that.'

Not that, then,' he repeated, yet hardly seeming
to notice the interruption, 'or poor, — or cross,
or distant, — she will always, always trust me.'

Later, he had said that it hurt him at first to
think she would not trust herself to him were he
wicked, that her affection would not be inalienable
under no matter what circumstances ; but
now he knew she was right ; he must be always
worthy.

Otherwise you would not be yourself,' she had
said. ^ You would not be the noble Eene I have
known, and I could not transfer my confidence
from the real You to that unknown one

The same, she thought now, would apply to
herself. They would each be worthy, no matter
what the cost. She must not desert him a
moment. If she were unsatisfied, she must
think what she would have him do, so as to
be able to adequately help him when the time
came.

Presently this earnest thought brought its
sure result. The blindness fell from her eyes asa
veil that is dropped. One thing was settled :
Eene must belong all to Louise. Bethesda could
only claim him, or write to him as a friend, or asa
co-labourer. Nothing more could be thought
of. This was one rock under her feet.

And it remained a solid rock in spite of the
wild waves of passion which surged over her at
night, when she felt the presence of Eene near

lier, and in trouble. She would have given a
whole life of happiness for the power to annihilate
time and space, and comfort him then. But the
doubly-woven curtain hung stiff between him
and her, and she could only beat herself against
the unyielding folds with impotent despair.

Then there came the consoling thought that
the answer to her letter was yet to come. He
would show himself strong in that, and support
her. And finally one rainy day, suddenly illumined,
it came ! The last !

It was very long ; in fact a diary, as Bethesda
had expected. Perhaps in other things her suppositions
as to what its contents would be had
not been wrong ; but still it threw her on to her
own feet as nothing else had done.

She saw that she could not depend on him to
help her ; all the strength of denial must come
from her ; all the earnest seeking and truth-compelling
thought. He would follow where
she led ; this was the utmost she could expect of

VOL. III. D

him now. They could no longer judge each by
the other. There was one side of her nature to
which she must recognise that he did not respond.
Where was it, she asked herself quickly, that she
did not answer him ?

However, the writing under the same dates
in their journals proved their difference. On one
day she wrote that she must do her utmost to
reinstate him in his highest self-esteem ; while
he, far from his self-esteem having been lowered
by their intercourse, wrote : — ' Thy glance ennobles
me. Thou personified my duty, my
honour, my conscience, and something even more
than these. Thou raises me above myself If thou
shouldst abandon me, what would I become V

When she felt an icy hand on her heart in
seeing the first effect of her letter was dead
silence, his heart was burning within him, and he
cried : ' There is no law, no distance, no malignity
capable of sundering us ! '

What gave her confidence in being able to

help him to see the right and do it were such
sentences as these : ^ If I leave thee, it would be
replacing joy by suffering ; I acknowledge I have
not the courage except as thou desires it.' And
again : ' I resign myself to my fate, whatsoever
it may be, if Bethesda imposes it upon me. Any
other hand I defy I '

She must cro alone from the seductive waves,
must set her feet firmly on the shore, and thence
help him. She would save him if he were passive,
which she had confidence he would be. Perhaps,
later, he might even help her. She took up the
double burden without regret, but with a yearning
patience, and a loneliness she had never felt
so deeply before. But she was resolute. It
should be her life's work to win him to the sight
of truth and duty. Through her he had fallen ;
if through her he could gain a higher standpoint,
by force of having met and conquered a great
temptation, she would feel her life well spent.
If he failed ? — She could never forgive herself.

In the evening of the day the letter came,
parts of which Bethesda had read to her aunt,
through which she learned that her request had
been refused, Mrs. Trescott appeared in a black
dress, unrelieved by any colour, and took occasion
to say to Beth :

This is the death ; there only remains now
the funeral.'

Bethesda drew herself up proudly, with a flash
of disdain for her only reply. In pushing him
off thus cruelly Mabel had but thrust him closer
to Bethesda, and :

^ I shall not desert him,' she told herself.

Come into my room,' said Mrs. Trescott
sharply, maddened by that expression on her
niece's face. ' I see you approve of that cowardly,
sneaking letter ! ' she burst out, as soon as the
door was closed; but Bethesda shut down the
flood-gates right there, standing regally in the
centre of the apartment.

Aunt Mabel,' she said, ' I shall not listen to

invectives against any one ; certainly not against
Eene. If you have nothing else to say, I shall
ask you to excuse me.'

Oh, it's very fine for you to be so proud with
me I But sit clown ; I must talk to you. Don't
you see, cm'it you see, that Eene hasn't one impulse
of veracity, not one moment of remorse for
having spoiled your life '

He has not spoiled it.'

I say he lias ! Every one notices it — notices
how much you are changed ; I notice it more than
all. You don't care for me a quarter, no, not a
tenth part as much as you did, and it is all because
of Eene ; while I lie awake nights, and tire
myself to death to think out an escape from the
dangers around your path.'

I am sorry.'

Mabel came and knelt doom beside Bethesda,
and put her arms around the girl's waist.

darling,' she pleaded, 'you are being worn
out with this struggle, and a gulf is widening

between you and me. I can't bear it. I would
be so glad to suffer all for you, but I cannot.
You will not even let yourself be guided
by me. I want to help you more than you
can know. I don't feel as if I could meet
your mother in heaven with this load upon my
soul '

It is no fault of yours exclaimed Beth.

Yes, it is ; partially at least. I should not
have trusted either of you. I ought to have
known that I could see clearer than you. I ought
to have had more confidence in myself. I have
helped to undo you, and I have now a duty I owe
to myself to reinstate you. Think of me a little,
Beth. Don't let all your sympathy go out towards
him ; I am suffering too.'

'Dear auntie !' murmured Bethesda. But her
position was now unendurable. She loosened her
aunt's clasp, and rose and walked away. If only
she could answer, alone, for her own soul ! No
one could take that responsibility from her in any

case, and it would be so much easier if she could
but fight it out her own way.

But for Mabel Trescott, with her imperial love
of domination, it was simply impossible for her
to leave her niece free. It was said of Thomas
Jefferson that ' he loved his country, and would
have died to save it ; that is, to convert it permanently
to his way of thinking.' A better description
could not be given of Mabel Trescott at
this time. If Beth would only lie passive in her
hands, and let her present and future be determined
for her, by one who considered her o^oi
judgment absolutely correct, Mabel thought she
could have died content. But, as it was, an impassable
gulf seemed to yawn wider and wider
between them, a sight which made the woman,
jealous of both affection and power, frantic in her
efforts to have it close. But her endeavours were
all in the wrong direction ; nothing but the sacrifice
of self could effect it, and this was something
of which she had never thought.

A day or two after this a long rain set in ;
the house was empty and bleak, and Mrs. Trescott
tired of her inactivity, so she decided to
go to New York immediately. It had been already
agreed upon that this should be their
future residence, the girls acquiescing in what

their aunt urged, as any city, except S , was

indifferent to them. So they left the mountains,
and Bethesda found herself, one late September
day, in the port whence steamers sailed direct
for France, and the monotonous billows were all
that divided him from her. — All ? There was a
distance far more insuperable than any space
which now separated them, and she was beginning
to know it.

Early in November they were well settled in
their new home, and friends were finding them
out, and were expresses in their attentions. But
no one of the three found the society altogether
congenial. Mrs. Trescott was very critical. Everyone
was too ' shoppy,^ and busied about matters

in which she could take no interest, to please her
taste. Persons who were merry and promised ' a
good time,' however, were vigorously cultivated,
so that she soon became the centre of a circle of
boisterous young people who made her laugh, but
could olive her no more substantial food : and
this was not of a equality to satisfy any woman
of thirty-five.

Margaret often found herself long-in o- for the
cultured and earnest persons who surrounded
Mrs. Stanhope ; a suggestive company which
o-ave one thoughts that remained long; after the
echo of voices had ceased. It would take years
before she and Bethesda could collect about them
those Who would be of a class at all similar to the
friends of fifteen years' standing, who gathered
to Aunt Agatha as their lamp of Wisdom. Indeed,
not being of a buoyant disposition, she
thought the possibility hopeless of achievement.


Bethesda meantime was in too listless an outward

state, and of too concentrated an excitement
within, to care much what went on about
her. Trouble often makes persons selfish, and
this Bethesda undeniably was during these
autumn months. She had, it may be, considerable
excuse, but selfishness is a fault which can
never be excused. She tried to take her part in
the duties of the house, aiding Margaret in the
housekeeping, which Mabel did not care to assume
; and to her sister at least she was always
tender. But she was careless of her physical welfare,
and was so wrapped in the clouds of smoke
that constantly ascended from the battlefield,
where she fought day and night, that she saw
little of what was going on outside.

Her increasing weakness, pallor, and disability
caused her sister great distress, and Mrs. Trescott
but little less. Finally Margaret wrote to
Aunt Agatha desperately, and with promptitude
Mrs. Stanhope telegraphed and wrote for Bethesda
to come to her, alone. She was not one tolet

a creature fade away without vigorous trial
of various methods of cure.

Bethesda went, but reluctantly. Her body
was so heavy now, and her mind so full, that
she would have preferred remaining still to any
change, however agreeable. Mrs. Stanhope had,
however, understood how to so express her lone-knees
without Margaret, and her desire to visit
with Beth, that, encouraged by Margaret, she
finally yielded ; and the middle of November,
accompanied only by Marcott, found her received
^\ith the tenderest cordiality in S .

This is the recruiting station,' said Mr. Stanhope
gaily, offering her his arm to escort her to
breakfast. ' I think my wife would be perfectly
happy if she had the control of a hospital, and a
limitless purse to do what she chose for them.
You couldn't have relieved her loneliness, nor filled
her heart better than by coming here to be coaxed
into health ; — and you know what a gratification
it will be to us all when she succeeds.'

Thank you,' murmured Betliesda. She felt
almost guilty under this solicitous affection ; for,
did she wish to recover ?

The change in her since the summer affected
both Mr. and Mrs. Stanhope powerfully. He
found himself speculating upon the features, thin
with conflict, and rigorous at times with self-control,
and felt when the evening was over as
if some far-away heroine had been telling him
the incidents of her daily life and listening with
courteous attention to his remarks, while really
living only in the tragedy which made her forever
memorable.

Mrs. Stanhope devoted the first week to
close, if unobtrusive study of her patient, doing
a hundred things for her restoration meanwhile,
from massage to providing a table so
daintily nourishing that it was, as Ealeigh quoted
one day, ' As if Juno had been sick, and she her
dieter.'

Mentally she gave her no less stimulating

food. Early in lier visit she put into the girl's
hands Goethe's Elective Affinities.

See what you can make out of it,' she said.
Many persons consider it immoral, and yet
Goethe asserted that it was the only book he
ever wrote sith a deliberate moral aim.'

Bethesda was soon absorbed in it, finding; it
marvellously suited to her needs. A thousand
questions were suggested, which Aunt Agatha
helped her to elucidate by a clear reasoning unobscured
by prejudice, and which constantly led
one from the small fact to the large principle ;
from the particular instance to the universal
truth.

The lesson Bethesda learned was very definite
and clear. It was, perhaps, what each one has
to learn by experience sometime during life :
that only in obedience to law is true freedom.
Within certain limits we are free ; overstep
those limits and we are inexorably bound on
every side. If we choose what is right and

good we have all truth to expand in ; if we prefer
evil we have to take it with being constantly
closer and closer bound. Order is the foundation
of the universe ; try to destroy that order and
we injure ourselves without in the least altering
circumstances. Law is unchangeable and absolute
; we but dash ourselves to death in trying
to shape it to the form of our desires.

Thus awakened the sense of the ' majesty of
virtue ' in Bethesda Hamilton's mind.



I

• This mount is such, that ever
At the beginning down below 'tis tiresome,
And aye the more one climbs the less it hurts,'

Purgatory.

Love and immortality are twin thoughts of life.

It was on the evening that she had finished this
book, and was still under its arousing; influence,
that a Mr. Blythe called. He had been a friend
of Margaret's, and still frequented Mrs. Stanhope's
parlours, round which the scent of the
rose seemed to linger. He was shy of Bethesda,
however, and she found her best method of enjoying
the thoughts he brought was in keeping
herself as unobtrusive as possible while he and
Mrs. Stanhope talked together on subjects which
she was oiad to hear discussed. In fact Mrs.

Stanhope probably led the conversation to these
subjects, for she believed in climatic influences
on thought as on nature.

There were some elections taking place, in
which, as usual, Mrs. Stanhope was interested.

^ Coke upholds that a statesman should practise
expediency, I believe she said, in answer to
some rather sceptical remark of Mr. Blythe's. * God,
indeed, acts so towards us, but he always gives us
real truth as far as we are able to accept it.'

Well, I don't know,' replied Mr. Blythe ; ' it
seems to me I could endure a good deal more
than I receive.'

I think it often seems so to us all. Beth
was telling me to-day that Dante, in his Purgatory,
makes the power to ascend to heaven simultaneous
with the will to do so ; but this powerful
desire, which is at one with our whole will, only
comes after long striving. So the greater your
desire is to receive a revelation, the more must
you patiently labour for it.'

But low can I labour for a tliinQ: I don't
believe exists ? That is where I am in regard to
religious truth. I must grasp it, and hold it,
and feel it there, before I begin to labour to o-ain
it as my own. I cannot accept a thing on faith ;
it must be demonstrated to me, and it seems tome
if it cannot be demonstrated its inability is a
proof against it .'

So it would be. But you are looking for a
physical proof of a spiritual fact. How can you
prove to my senses that you think ? '

By speech.'

Then anything you don't speak I can assert
you do not think ? But let that pass. You
cannot see with your eyes, nor feel with your
hand, your intellect, and yet you would acknowledge
it was as much, if not more, you as your
cranium. You cannot prove that you love, but
cannot you believe in an manifested affection V
Mr. Blythe moved uneasily, for such had been
his feeling for Margaret. ' You cannot prove

VOL. III. E

your own individuality, and yet it is just that
which is you, is your true self. Your body is
merely a manifestation of you, as heat is of fire,
as the spark is of electricity. We must not
cramp ourselves into sense proof alone ; we must
progress beyond that, and in each advancing
stage we will find we have wider limits and
more soul room.'

That sounds true,' said Mr. Blythe slowly,
while Bethesda glanced from one to the other in
eager interest.

Just then there were ushered in another caller,
a young clergyman, who was peculiarly alive to
the needs of the time, and ready to flow with
the current of new ideas, so that he might find
their truth and controvert their error. Mrs.
Stanhope immediately introduced him to the
subject they had been discussing, and he entered
into it with readiness.

'You should read Hegel,' he said to Mr.
Blythe, smiling. ' I call him the fifth gospel.

For any one who understands him he is simply
salvation. If you once understand the meaning
of history, the use of epochs, the reason of law,
you see God in everything. It is all in the
Bible ; only few read it there. Such men as
Hegel are expounders, almost new revelations.'

Do you suppose we ever will be given a new
revelation ? ' asked Bethesda suddenly.

I certainly do,' said Mrs. Stanhope emphatically.


Ah ! do you, indeed 'i ' remarked Mr. Con-enough,
surprised. ' I would not have expected
that of you, Mrs. Stanhope.'

I am sure I see no reason against it. I
should be sorry to think that humanity had all
the truth it ever would or could receive.'

You are right ! ' exclaimed Mr. Blythe, his
face irradiating ; ' you are really sensible ! '

'Excuse me, but I don't see that,' returned
Mr. Connough. ' Christ manifested to us the
perfection of humanity, and the realisation of

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

divinity. He showed us God as a person, and
there can be nothing higher than the manifestation
of the Absolute. If a person asks for something
higher than this it is as if he innocently
inquired, " What is there beside the whole ? " '

Yet said Mrs. Stanhope, ^ each nation has
believed that its religion was the " whole," and in
spite of this it has been transcended. Why may
not the future transcend Christ ? '

Your question refers to the condition of religions
before Christ came. They were constantly
transcending one another because they had not
yet reached the reconciliation. Christ was the
first infinite, and the first is the last. Each
religion before that grew beyond and beyond ;
since Christ it is growing into itself. Christ
taught us how the finite can grow into the infinite
; how the individual can become universal.
What can there be beyond ? '

But,' said Mr. Blythe, '' there was Buddha ;
wherein did he differ from Christ ? Where was

he SO inferior ? He taught his people self-sacrifice
and morality, and that is what Christ
taught after Buddha.'

^ Christ never taught self-sacrifice as an end,
only a means. He taught us to sacrifice our
lower selves to our ho-her selves : our higher
selves to our highest self. For every death he
taught a resurrection. Buddha taught : Do good
that ye may cease to exist. Christ taught : Do
good that ye may have everlasting life. The
estimation of Buddhism is self-extinction ; the
estimation of Christianity is self-realisation, as
Christ showed us. In him we have the infinite
grown out of the finite; the absolute " seing " out
of the limited '' becoming." In him we see what
humanity can be, what it is potentially, as, therefore,
what it must be in its final development.'

And you find this all in Hegel ? ' asked Mr.
Stanhope.

It is all there and in the Bible. Every man
who teaches the truth is a disciple of Christ's.

He must be ; he cannot help himself if he would.
History shows us that great ages blossom forth
into great men. One man sums up the meaning
of his time, and catches the light of the future on
his uplifted face. The world is like a great
century plant: it grows slowly from joint to joint,
and then holds up a glorious flower to the admiration
of mankind. Presently that withers,
but the century plant progresses, and its second
blossom is higher than the first. Hegel tells you
how the natural is the first blossom. Experience
alone satisfies us. Then comes the artistic.
Greece and the Renaissance make the cycle of
art, which is higher than nature ; it is nearer the
reality in its symbolism. But we have passed
beyond that to the moral cycle, which began with
the Reformation, and which is going through the
strict analysis of science in the present. It is the
fashion of our time to see infidelity everywhere,
for it to be everywhere ; but do you think for this
that the world is really growing worse ? Do you

suppose God thinks it is suddenly rolling backwards
? Xo, indeed ! Where we see decay, God
sees growth. Growth it is, though the apple
may fall with a shock that causes an earthquake,
though its decay may poison thousands. The
seed will sprout, will push itself steadily up
through the dark ground for a while, but at last
it will raise itself in the lio'ht of heaven, and we
will see its beaut v and call it o-ood.'

Then you think,' said Mr. Stanhope, ' that
all this atheism and confusion of morals will
result in something better than what went before
it ? For my part I think the good old times of
our fathers were best.'

It is because you have not looked into the
question sufficiently deeply,' said ]mr. Connough
with earnestness. ' By this minute analysis,
this destruction of all life, because only a dead
body can be dissected, the dross of human additions
and complications of Christ's life will be
cleared away. Then, when nothing remains in

our hands or minds but the dead fragments of
material which formed the home of a soul, we
shall recognise that there is something beyond
the reach of the scalpel, and we shall take truer
means to find out what it is which influences
the molecules of the brain, and causes consciousness,
or what we call soul. The powerful tendency
of the present, Mr. Stanhope, is only a
counteraction to the powerful tendency of the
past. What was then resistless in its effort to
suffocate reason by floods of blind faith, is now
washing faith away in the undertow of a receding
tide that leaves thirsty science staring blankly at
the sky. Presently we shall find that " moving
equilibrium" which Herbert Spencer calls synonymous
with perfection.'

As I understand you, then,' said Mrs. Stanhope,
'you would term this scientific investigation
of spiritual truth a kind of mental Crusade, and
one which will meet with the same result: thousands
of lost lives to buy an empty tomb.'

Precisely ! The Crusaders only repeated
what the disciples did when they went to the
sepulchre, and Christ rebuked them with the
words : " Why seek ye the living among the
dead ? " It is what the scientists are doing to-day.'

Art saved the Crusaders, I believe,' returned
Mrs. Stanhope ; ' that is, they began to seek, not
the tomb, but some more spiritual symbol of
divinity. Now, what is it that will save us ? '

Not art in any case. We are not satisfied
with that limited view. Our ideals of Christ
transcend all conceptions ever worked into canvas
or marble. Holman Hunt and Dore may try
their realistic pictures ; they will not answer our
needs. Even in art we need something more
complex. Modern life is complex ; a lyre of
three strings will not serve us. I myself think
the novel is the art of the future. It does not
circumscribe, it is suo-restive of outlines rather
than outlining. It is soul-painting, spirit sculpture.
No ; philosophical insight is, I should say,

the answer to your question, Mrs. Stanhope. But
we must carry up with us the different phases of
our religious beliefs as we do our arts. Philosophy
is not another religion : it is a higher forma
development of Christianity. But beware of
leaving your emotional religion behind you. Let
the light of reason shine through your soul's
windows, but keep warm by the fire of affection.
You should be able to both feel God's love and
see his wisdom.'

Then you, of course, think Christianity will
be the religion of the future V

Surely I do. But why trouble about the
future ? It is to-day that we live, and to-day
that we must both live nobly and think rightly.
We must throw away no opportunities to-day
which perception, energetic thought, and reverence
for truth, can bring us, or tomorrow will
still find us indolent to accept what tomorrow
brings. Every one who is not morally dead has,
I think I may affirm, some religion. They may

deny the name and the fact, but it is Christianity
which has impregnated the air with its germs of
liberty and humanity to give "free-thinkers"
their free thought and devotion to humanity.
He who is true to principle and merciful to his
neighbour obeys Christ's two commandments. I
would have the men of to-day live nobly the
present, not the past nor future. There are
many orthodox doctrines, so called, which cannot
but seem absurd or cruel to a reasonable
man. Hell and Heaven as pictured by Dante,
who does it With a far more liberal brush
than many of the theologians of to-day, are a
poetry, not a belief They are forms only, and
picture a mythology not more essential to the
life of to-day than Homer's 01}Tnpus. All these
things are but bodies which fall away and decay,
but — and here is the secret of content — the
spirit that vivifies them is only left free thereby
to make new and more elevated and uplifting
forms, which will be, whatever they are, the

world's next creed. What is a vital necessity tous
to-day is to hold close by this spirit, and
understand that it is steadfast, and unchangeable,
and serene. It is never past, nor to be ; it exists
in the everlasting Now, and though its forms
be Protean, it is simply itself.'

'Won't following one's conscience bring one
to that ? ' asked Bethesda timidly.

The belief in conscience as the highest is like
the Jewish religion. Miss Hamilton. They are
both negative, and apply only to individuals,
not to humanity as a race. They are both
full of " shan't." Look at the difference
between the Commandments and the Beatitudes,
and you will see what I mean. Besides, they
neither of them have any serenity or centre of
absolute principle. In the Old Testament, for
instance, the Lord is represented as " angry " or
pacified." As if we could " grieve " or " offend "
God ! He would be always angry, always
grieved, always relentless, if he were ever so !

We cannot alter the Eternal; but we may anger,
and grieve, and offend, and alter our consciences,
and this is what the Jews meant. The belief in
conscience is apt to fall just as the Jewish religion
did, but both have a prophecy of the Messiah
inherent in them, and to both when the time is
ripe a Saviour comes.'

He smiled down at Bethesda very kindly ashe
rose to go, but the eyes she raised to his
showed their unsatisfied hunger painfully. The
smile faded from his face, and an anxious desire
to help made him say :

When any new perception of truth comes
you may be sure it will be to one who is preeminently
in the stream of Providence ; that is,
actively, and with his whole soul employed in
the duties of life, trying to fill each one with the
bounty of an unselfish ardour. Then we must
get outside of the narrow limits of conscience
into a recognition of something larger than ourself,
in the good of society, of the nation, and

thence the Church. It will come, but we must
discipline ourselves for the highest by practice in
the lower forms. We cannot afford to pass these
by ; if we do, we lose all.'

He bowed, and, accompanied by Mr. Blythe,
departed.

What a liberal clergyman ! ' said Bethesda.

So liberal that his congregation will soon
turn him off,' remarked Mr. Stanhope drily. ' Yet
he has good ideas too. Blythe seemed greatly
interested; eh, wife?'

Yes, he needs some such man to talk to. He
thinks a woman is peculiarly constructed for the
purpose of having faith in things no man can
believe in. Of course that is folly, but a great
many men are like him. They even go so far as
to prefer a woman should believe what they can
see no sense in; it makes them more "womanly,"
they think.'

Now, you need not give me the benefit of all
that sarcasm ! ' exclaimed Raleigh, laughing.

You know I am not one of those dreadful
men ! '

But Mrs. Stanhope only smiled absently. She
was thinking of what had been said.

When I was a girl she remarked presently,
I knew a woman who felt herself made for something
uncommon, and who prepared for it by
idle waiting, because her talents were too noble
for humble use. She tried after the unattainable,
and dived after the unfathomable, to the neglect
of all ordinary duties. Thus she lost all possibility
of attaining the heights. Her feet, unaccustomed
to the first steps of the ladder, could
not through all her life climb more than the
lower ones, and those with difficulty. The stars
she worshipped, and longed impotently for wings
to attain, passed her by, and shone in other skies.
I worshipped her ; I looked confidently for that
wondrous revelation which was to surprise the
world and blind it while her long-expectant eyes
could alone sustain the light. But I recognised

that it was long in coming, and I decided that
I must content myself with lower things '

You would be the kitchen-maid,' interrupted
Ealeigh, ' and you are my Princess Cinderella.
So put on your glass slipper, and let us go upstairs.
Beth looks tired.'

You are all teaching me so much ! ' exclaimed
Bethesda, with something of her old impulsiveness.
'I shall not soon forget to-night's
lessons.'

And then the thought came to her with a
sudden pang : How much interest would Eene
take in such an evening's conversation ? He
rocked himself in his old creeds, while she was
battling in the present; was this another side
where they did not respond to one another ?

The gladness of true heroism visits the heart of him who is
really competent to say : I court truth.' — Tindal.

Help us, Lord, to feel that, when we put one hand bravely
in that of Truth, the other is clasped in thine.' — John Snyder.

In spite of siicLl conversations as these, and the
invigorating books Mrs. Stanhope gave Bethesda
to read, intellectual perception was still weak and
impotent, like a new-born babe, compared to the
mighty tidal waves of passion which surged now
and again over the woman's heart and left her
prostrate. Some little thing would recall the past,
and she would turn sick and dizzy as one does ina
heavily-perfumed room. One day when she
came in from driving, and laid aside the cloak
Eene had particularly liked, and the gloves fragrant
with the perfume he had chosen, the vivid

VOL. III. F

memories came over her with a suffocation of
desire which was well-nigh insane. The red
damask room, the buhl furniture, the deep windows
and views therefrom, were all pictured
before her in a flash which blinded her to her
present surroundings.

Fortunately Agatha called her in a moment,
and during luncheon the poignant sensation
passed. But when she came out again and saw
her wraps, she saw as distinctly the tall lithe
form, the proud head, and deep eyes of one —

^ I love ! ' she exclaimed in defiance.

She went to her own room, and paced up and
down fiercely.

What is the use of it all ? ' she cried beneath
her breath. ' Let me be ill ! I am tired of fighting
and feigning ; tired of pretending to be content
when the source of happiness is poisoned ;
tired of keeping up appearances, and trying to
make even myself feel that there is still much to
live for. I don't wish to live ! I am envious of

every person whom I hear has been accidentally
killed. Why should they be thus chosen ? It is
not just that I should pass untouched where
others meet dear death. Why won't they let the
stupor of illness deaden the pain of my brain ? I
want to die, to die ! '

She had never acknowledged this to herself
before ; she had stifled, yet unborn, all such feelings
; but now she was desperate. How much
could one suffer and live ?

That same day Agatha came in to call her
for dinner, and found her asleep, and, when
she tried, could not waken her. She bade
the servant telephone for the physician who
had formerly examined her niece's heart. He
came. Bethesda had not moved ; her breathing
was hardly perceptible, and her pulse so
faint as to be unnoticeable. She lay as still
and almost as white as death, with purple
shadows under her eyes, and her mouth inexpressibly
sad.

The physician looked down at her with more
feeling than he usually displayed.

She is worn out he said. * Let her sleep
as long as she will. She can awake only to
suffer.'

^ Do you mean that she cannot escape the
disease now ? ' asked Agatha.

I mean she must be a great deal worse before
she can be better. I mean, dear Mrs. Stanhope,
I mean that all your powers of nursing will be
required to bring her through.'

Is the danger of death or lingering disease ? '

Of both. There is trouble with the brain as
well as the heart.'

Is there danger of her being insane *? You
know I always wish to know the worst.' Agatha
put her hand behind her as she spoke, and
grasped the high back of a chair.

1 think not,' was the quick response, ^ I
should say she had a strong mind ? '

An active one.'

And with good reasoning powers ? '

Yes

She is having a great trouble of some kind ? '

Yes.'

^ Has it reached the climax yet ? '

I don't know.'

She can bear little more. Yon must guard
her in every way.'

I can't, doctor ; ' and then the brave woman
broke down. This was the worst, that, do what
she might, she could not protect the frail body
from the gnawing mind.

She recovered herself in a moment, however.

There is nothing to be done until she wakens,
you say ; and then ? '

Send for me. I will come again in the morning,
anyway.'

He came without being sent for. Bethesda
still lay in the childlike posture, with one hand
beneath her cheek. They turned her over — the
horrible dead weight ! — and left her for another

twelve hours. Then she wakened, and smiled at
her anne in the firelight.

I have had such a good rest she said. * It
must be quite dinner-time.'

She rose, and tried to dress, but found herself
weak and languid. Mrs. Stanhope thought it
best to tell her, very quietly, that nature had
taken a rest in her despite, and that she had slept
a whole day. Bethesda was a trifle startled, but
the hazy calm which had settled upon her shielded
her mind from active apprehension.

It was in the midst of an unusually warm and
late Indian summer, and Mrs. StanhojDC obeyed
the physician's mandate in taking Beth out for
long, slow drives over the prairie lands that rose
and fell in wooded undulations to the dim horizon.
Balmy winds blew from the south; an
indefinable fragrance filled the air ; the sunbeams
shed only soft lights through the misty
atmosphere ; the few remaining leaves were
golden, and the dark lines of branches were delicate

and fine. Empty birds' nests suggested the
spring-time with an added melancholy, and the
birds, resting in their migrations, found, where
had been the gloom of verdure, only shadows
like mellowed light.

Someway the autumn, the ripening and falling
time, came upon Bethesda with a peculiar
force of sweetness. She seemed to feel as she
would when she was middle-aged and calm, and
life had become more meditative than active —
and anguished — to her. She surrendered herself
to it voluntarily. She was content to forget just
now; she and nature together were quietly
resting.

But all too soon they woke one morning to
find their Indian summer gone, and in its stead
winter was drearily throned for an unbroken
reign. A wild prairie wind shrieked and sobbed
and moaned around the house, and large fires
barely sufficed to warm the rooms where a few
days before the endows had been open to let

the soft air enter and stir Bethesda's white dress
and fine bronze hair.

She shivered now and collected herself, and
tried to look the future bravely in the face. It
was little over a month before her final decision
must be rendered, and the correspondence with
Eene planted, to bring forth what fruits it might,
or annihilated for a practical eternity.

She investigated the abysses of her own mind
as steadily as she could. Perhaps she had been
unduly influenced by physical weakness, she
thought. Perhaps she was unwilling to follow
one course, whether conscience commanded it or
not, so unconsciously closed that issue. This
must not be. On what did Eene's greatest welfare
depend ? This was the important question.
If she broke the correspondence definitely it
might, instead of awakening his moral nature,
destroy his belief in woman, and the bitterness
would poison his whole character. If she wrote
to him, her letters would be the result of long

and severe tliouo'ht, and she mip^lit lead him from
doing: what lie said, to do what his conscience
said. It would be a great shock to him in any
case to find that she had changed her opinions
so much ; but the blow might benefit him, although
he had such a buoyant disposition that he
quickly adjusted himself to any burden given him
to bear, and found it light. Too light ; it did
not crush him enough to bring out the pure ore.
Eene was, however, very close to her all that
evening. Indeed, was he not always near her ?
She was not conscious of a moment when, either
active or dormant, the thought of him was other
than present. As she wakened it never came
sith suddenness that she remembered him ; the
thought wakened with her, and was quietly in
possession when she became fully conscious. She
talked and read aloud, and listened to others,
and his spirit was ever there, watchful, cherishing,
seldom importunate — for he would not have
been — but always ready to step forward into the

light of her active recognition when the imperativeness
of other demands was answered. It was
sweet and upholding ; it was as if he were consciously
present, as at the Conovers' the evening
before their departure, talking himself and leaving
her free, but drawing around her a warm garment
of unceasing attention and proud tenderness.

Several callers did not interfere with an unusually
keen apprehension of Eene's presence
until Mr. Connough commanded Bethesda's
undivided attention by what he was saying to
another caller — a Mr. Fluting.

Daniel Deronda was the topic of conversation,
and Mr. Fluting had been drawing a comparison
between Grandcourt and Deronda, and
awarding his praise to the large sympathy of the
latter. This immediately aroused Bethesda. She
was not one of those who found Deronda unreal.
Many of the touches a master-hand had given to
his character touched home to her heart. Was
not his writing with Mordecai like hers with

Eene ? Was not his wide s}Tiipatliy the element
she had tried to make her own ? Had not she
also been 'early impassioned by ideas and at
least tried ' to burn her fires on those heights ^ ?

The tendencies of the times remarked Mr.
Connougrh decisively, ' are to make such men as
Deronda the ideal tj^e. His sympathies were so
spread out into the vague that he had no convictions
; he put himself in every one's place except
his own. This is the end to which some of our
best minds aspire. Is it good ? Is it beneficial
to humanity ? For myself I doubt it. I think
we should have a generosity large enough to
embrace ourselves.'

'Some writer suggested Mrs. Stanhope,
strongly advocates this lack of convictions.
Convictions are crystallisations' he says. " It
is freezing the water of life'"

'Well, what does that amount to?' asked
Mr. Connough, controversially. 'Deronda, the
modern ideal, let us say, did nothing until he

was forced by his self-abnegation into the concentrated
life-purpose of a one-idea's man. Weare
few of us in a position to "put ourselves
back into the antediluvian period to sympathise
with a megatherium"! There is some absolute
duty for each one to perform, and we cannot
expect Fate, in the guise of a Mordecai, to bring
our work to our hands as it was brought to
Deronda's. If we misdirect our energies the
world misses the work we were born for, and we
must each find it out for ourselves.'

'Gwendolen in the same way waited for
Deronda to tell her what was right, didn't she ?
She had the moral indecision that Deronda had
intellectually.'

Yes, Deronda was Gwendolen's conscience.
She was too egotistic a nature, perhaps, to have
it awakened otherwise than by emotion, by
having a conscience outside of her ; but once
awakened, absolute separation was necessary for
her to be able to develop her real conscience.

Had she married Deronda she would never have
had anv conscience of her own at all. She
married a man self-determined at least, whatever
his faults, and Deronda married a woman also
self-determined. There was no chance about it ;
it was one of the must-be's of character. '

AVhat an insight was this for Bethesda 1 She
seized on it nth her quick intuition, and said :

Then the right thing would be to be crystallised
within oneself, and fluid to others.'

True, true!' exclaimed an incipient admirer
of Bethesda's. ' You have put it admirably, Miss
Hamilton.'

Mr. Stanhope was walking up and down the
parlour, with his hands behind him. He stopped
now, facing the group around the fire.

Did you ever hear the legend,' he said, ' of
a monk, a good but narrow-minded man, who
tried to convince every one of his own particular
creed, and failing, damned them eternally ? No
reflections, Mr. Connough 1 Well, one day he

fell asleep — a man must tire easily with such a
weight of responsibility ! — and in a dream he
saw himself walking by a stream of pure water.
Presently a beautiful youth appeared, and set
many differently-shaped vessels on the bank, no
two alike, but all transparent, and then he filled
each one with water from the stream. The goodman
was perplexed when the youth looked at
him to see if he understood, and desired him to
explain ; so the angel said : " The water takes the
form of the vessel which contains it, but it is
always the same in itself. Eemember this."
And the old monk awoke, and he did remember
it, and it changed him from a dogmatic sectarian
to the widest-minded man of his times. ^

And I believe with Beth,' added Mrs. Stanhope,
' that it is the same with what we are to
ourselves and to others. We can have our convictions
pure and true, and our sympathies fluid
enough to follow each curve and line of other
minds.'

There is a very good sermon in that story,'
said Mr. Connaught thoughtfully. ' I wish I
could prevail upon my people to understand that
reason is the very life of religion ; that we must
serve God with our minds as well as our hearts.'

'How do you explain '^ reasonably" asked
Mr. Stanhope, ' the necessity of this blind faith
and cruel narrowness which has marked the
Christian Church '? '

I take it in this way,' was the reply. ' The
emphasis placed on faith in the earlier centuries
of Christianity was needed to consolidate the
religion and make its truths, its injunctions,
sink into the hearts of men. This speedily degenerated
into superstition, and ignorance brought
its inevitable result in sin. Then to the synthetic
unity which faith had produced was brought the
analytic power of doubt ; first in the Reformation,
now in science, and I believe one will be of
as inestimable value to humanity as the other.
By scepticism our religion Twill be regenerated ;

not in itself, for, as Christ taught it, it is eternally
of the same perfection, but in the acceptation
of it by men, which is what the world needs.
As I said the other evening, by scepticism all
the non-essentials will be eliminated, and, like
the sky when the clouds are swept away, it will
be seen as one unstained sapphire of truth from
the zenith to the horizon.'

Have you read any of Matlock's books, Miss
Hamilton?' asked Mr. Fluting, turning away
from the others with some impatience. He
much preferred a tete-tete, where he could do all
the talking, especially to such a listener. But she
was not in an indolent frame of mind to-night.
She was now, on the contrary, eager for food,
eager for knowledge, aroused once more to the
interminable combat. So she turned to Mr.
Connough with Mr. Fluting's question.

I don't know what to make of Matlock, do
you ? '

He doesn't see far. He cannot answer the

questions lie propounds, but he voices the yearnings
of the time, and reaches more truth unconsciously
than he does consciously. He makes
love, conjugal love, the waiting ground or the
antechamber of the divine. He tells men to
seek the highest they do know, while waiting
or seeking for the unknown. I think you will
find everywhere that when men do not know
God they do not comprehend the significance of
marriage. And when they realise that entire
self surrender, and a finding of themselves in
another is their greatest happiness, then they
begin to understand what it is to give themselves
to a diviner power, to an inexhaustible
love, and so come to an apprehension of God.'

There was a little silence after this. Even
Mr. Fluting did not find anything immediately
to say; but presently Mrs. Stanhope led the
conversation back into more ordinary channels,
and Mr. Connough soon rose to go. Mr. Fluting
followed him, for Bethesda was immersed in the

VOL. III. G

thoughts that had been awakened, and he found
himself a little de trop.

Bethesda's earnest effort to see was not without
success. In the night a startling possibility
suggested itself, and dazed her at first. What
if she should write to Madame d'Isten, tell the
situation frankly, and hold herself at Eene's
wife's commands ?

It might open Louise's eyes, excite her
jealousy, and thus make her realise her husband's
worth, and incite her to strive to keep
his affection. If this could be accomplished his
best welfare would be secured. The passionate
attachment between him and Bethesda should
be used as a tool for the more perfect modelling
of character.

But, would this be the result ? Bethesda
forced herself to look searchingly into the character
over whose weaknesses she had hitherto
drawn a sheltering veil. Louise d'Isten, so far
as Bethesda knew her, was undeniably a weak

woman. She was selfish, and discontented, and
passionate, with no effort to be otherwise. She
had the faults of a narrow education, and a
pernicious society. If Bethesda wrote, it might
rouse her jealousy in such a way that she would
hate her husband, and take revenge by giving
free reins to all her desires. But the thought
haunted Bethesda, and when next day a letter
from Eene, forwarded by ]airs. Trescott, came,
telling of his having been to see his wife, and
having informed her of his literary compact with
Bethesda, she thought this smoothed the path
before her.

She was ready to humiliate herself in anyway,
if by so doing she could help Eene and
Louise. Madame d'lsten was now definitely
aware that such a woman as Bethesda Hamilton
existed, and, not improbably, had some feeling
of jealousy for her already. If so, would not
the effect of the proposed letter be more towards
action than complaint ? Bethesda was sure

that, although Eene had told his wife of the
compact, he had giveth her no voice in the
matter. She, Bethesda, would do this, and,
moreover, would show Louise how she might
win her husband more fully than ever, and in
doing so, help him and assure both their happiness.
What if she should even prevail upon
Madame d'Isten to write to her, and then reconcile
the conflicting elements ? Ah, that
would be worth living for ! That would be
work meet for repentance.

But presently common sense began to reassert
itself against this high romance, and
humility taught her that these were fallacious
self-deceptions. It was not her place to anticipate
any such results from what had been
sinful error from the beginning. She must
seek a fuller and surer expiation.

While her mind was under the full effect of
this disappointment she stood one afternoon in
her bay-window, her spirit as sodden as the chill

earth. She looked dully at the leaden sky,
which seemed all of one hue, except where the
rain-laden clouds were scourged onwards by the
north wind. Involuntarily she contrasted this
December with the June six months before.
The wide streets, the avenues of blossoming
trees, the statuary, the sweet air and sunny
skies of la helle France, — how she yearned for
them I The months contrasted sadly enough in
other ways. Then the most fatiguing and
constant exertions, the late hours and light
sleep, could not detract from the gladness of
heart which made her strong and buoyant.
Now rest, intellectual food, petting without
limit, and the greatest care, could not prevent
the heavy weight within from wearing her thin,
and pale, and weak. It was the contrast of the
"flowering and decaying time.

In the midst of her dreary reflections a knock
came at the door, and a cablegram from Evra
was handed her — a tender message hoping she

was better. It might have been the thoughts
which had previously occupied her mind; it
may have been the leap of her fluttering heart,
but from the instant her eyes glanced down the
lines she felt sure Eene's tenderness had planned
it. And to Bethesda, struggling in the toils of
conflicting principles, and almost ready for the
renunciation of all happiness, it was like a voice,
a touch from Paradise. Her load was inexpressibly
lightened, and during the evening she
looked lovely beyond compare.

Not long after this came her birthday, and
both to celebrate it, and because of Bethesda's
increasing fragility, Agatha asked Margaret to
visit her for a fortnight.

The joy of the meeting between the sisters
was tempered with great sadness, for Bethesda
had failed steadily. When letters had come from
Mabel, burdened with anxiety for both soul and
body, and advocating, in season and out of season,
heT ideas of Beth's duty, they had made the weary

woman perceptibly weaker. She felt an imperative
need for freedom, and Mrs. Trescott constantly
wished to guide and direct her, and she
began to see the impossibility of drawing near to
one, however affectionate, who wishes to throw
chains about one.

But it had come to the pass now that nothing
was of any vital consequence to her but integrity
and the rio-ht. On these all her failing; strength
was concentrated. Let her questions be decided,
and then the deluge.

On her birthday, when Bethesda was not able
to leave the couch — a sad enough coming of age
for the beautiful heiress — after she had transacted
considerable business and made her will,
Bethesda asked to be left alone with Marcott. He
came and stood before her reverentially.

Marcott,' said Bethesda, ' I know you are
devoted to your master.'

Marcott started. M. d'Isten had given him
such strict injunctions never to breathe a word

of his former service, that he supposed no one
knew it.

I believe yon are also devoted to me Bethesda
pursued calmly. ' I prove my trust in you
by confiding to you this letter to be given to
your master when I die. Don't fail to give it
into his own hands, and let no one know you
possess it, except M. d'Isten. I trust this to
your honour, Marcott.'

I will give it only into my master's. Monsieur
le Comte d'Isten's hand,' said Marcott solemnly.
'I swear it by '

Hush ! Your word is sufficient. Only to
him, or to me, if I should ask it of you ; you
understand ? '

ado.'
■ ' I wish you to know also that I have left you
a small sum to support you when you are old, or
ill, and to be a reminder of my thanks for your
faithful service.'

'I can never thank you, dearest lady,' exclaimed

the man, the tears streaming clown his
face, which he turned away to hide.

Don't weep for me,' said Bethesda, with
utmost gentleness. ' I shall be happier if I
die. Tell your master so.'

Her voice, too, broke, and she held out her
hand for him to kiss.

'You are only fit for heaven,' said poor
Marcott, and he left her TVT.th the precious letter
tightly buttoned beneath his vest.

Eene's letter for her, the first after the six
months' silence, came the next day, a week in advance
of its time. She laid it aside unopened. It
might settle her actions when she came to read it.
It did not seem right to her to forsake him utterly,
yet Eene's highest perception of womanhood was
embodied in her, and if right claimed that she
should be silent as well as invisible to him she
must accede. Intuition told her dimly, before
she had gone far enough to perceive it by reason,
that she could not help) him ; that this last joy

was consolation, as many others, was denied
them by their wrongdoing. They must, she
feared, expiate separately. If she only had the
real hope that he would expiate ! but she was
afraid his conscience might not awaken without
her. Thus she was, in spite of their actual present
divergence, still carrying out the principles
Mrs. Trescott had instilled into her by education
and practice; for she was endeavouring to occupy
the same position towards Eene that Mabel strove
to occupy towards her, and of which she felt so
keenly the bondage. The difference was that
Eene gloried in his obedience, and served willingly
the conscience of another, while Bethesda
found it an unendurable burden.

The night between Christmas Eve and Christmas
Day was a memorable one to Bethesda.
Margaret had placed on easels at the foot of the
bed two engravings ; one, a Holy Family by
Raphael; the other, of the Milan Cathedral.
Bethesda lay looking at them most of the night.

There was a strange sense of calm in and around
her. She felt as if she were waiting for a voice
to speak, and it recalled the fancy she had had,
when, standing on San Miniato in the spring sunshine,
she had listened to the echoes of the church
bells, losing themselves in the purple Apennines.
Then it was high noon ; now it was a winter midnight,
but the feeling; was the same.

As she lay in this clear-eyed calm, thinking
how marvellously the little beginning of the Holy
Family had developed into an infinite life, which,
to those who believed, filled heaven, and made
arts, ethics, and religion blossom into fullest
luxuriance on earth, she seemed, without any
transition, to have it clear in her mind that she
was to abrogate all spiritual control over Eene ;
that, as long as their present life separated them,
they were to be separated absolutely, with no
thought of further communication beyond the
letter she would write to tell him this.

She had had this lesson still to learn : that she

was presumptuous in thinking through her could
come his only aid ; that if she did not actively
help him he was lost. She knew that no one
can be lost or saved except by himself; he must
inevitably sink or rise with the meaning of his
own actions.

Who was she, to take the responsibility of his
deeds 1 to answer for him in heaven or hell ?
Had he no voice ? She could but trust in his
nobility, his strength, his purity. If these failed
him, in so far as these failed him, they would be
eternally separated. The infinite would come
between them.

It was not so hard as she had fancied to make
this ultimate sacrifice. Never before had she
realised how, with the strong desire to do right
comes the strength to act. A few days before
it had seemed to her that life was unendurable
without active use to him ; yet now she felt up-borne.
The majesty of virtue ! It commands
our obedience, and when we are willing to kneel

as soon as the command comes, the great king
unveils himself.

During the following week Mabel, alarmed by
the accounts received from Agatha and Margaret,

came on to S . In the first interview they

had alone, Bethesda told her aunt of her decision.
Her words were few, and impregnated with a
gentle weariness, undisturbed by tears, praises,
and tears again, which were showered upon her.
She seemed very far away from it all, and as if
she were looking on something; in which she had
no part.

She lay on the bed all day lifted on numerous
pillows, her face tired to faintness. Margaret
hovered around her with unobtrusive attentions,
and Bethesda liked to have her near. Hers was
the only presence which did not weigh upon the
sensitive woman.

If you will just let me rest,' she said once,
when the physician came. ^ I don't want anything
but rest and Margaret.' And Margaret

banished the others with more energy than that
of which ordinary events would have shown her
capable, and constituted herself a sister of the
tenderest charity. She thought Beth would die,
and when she remembered the past months of
suffering, felt almost reconciled to losing her.
She would soon join her where God would wipe
away all tears from their eyes.

Bethesda lay thus all the holiday week, asking
little, doing nothing except to bear the pain
which steadily increased. Many flowers were
sent her, and a fresh basket of the loveliest roses
was constantly on the silken quilt beside her, a
delicate attention from Mr. Stanhope. She lay
amid the flowers like a snow-drift in spring,
stealthily decreasing in strength, and likening
more and more to its whiteness. She was quite
passive in mind and body until New Year's Day,
when she roused herself, conscious that now
there was something for her to do. She
gathered all her strength for the consummation

of lier sacrifice. This clone, and she had nothing
more to think about. Nothing more. The
future from this day was a dead blank to her.
To-day was all she had to live. To-morrow
was beyond her thoughts.

She early asked Margaret to bring her the
olive-wood box which contained Eene's letters,
and those she had already mostly written, to be
sent to-dav. Then she had asked her sister to
leave her, and kissed her on both cheeks, as if to
fortify herself by these sweet touches.

When she was alone she slowly broke the
seal of Eene's long - anticipated letter. She
trusted it would be strong and helpful, and
yet she wished to be prepared for any event.
As she read it her face gathered sadness which
made her seem a woman arrived at the maturity
of sorrow, and as she finished it her hand was
pressed close against her heart.

The letter showed him blind, so blind !
These months had apparently brought him

nothing of growth or clear-sight. He had not
once questioned himself deeply in regard to
their relationship. He did not recognise that
there was anything to question. He had incorporated
his position towards her into an unquestionable
part of his existence. He saw no
use in examining with a view to change what
was unchangeable. And the woman's heart felt,
if her mind did not yet recognise, that where
there is no growth, love must die. It was
the bitterness of this cup which she was now
drinking.

He had enclosed a red leaf, the last on the
Virgin Vine which wreathed itself around her
window, now his. It recalled with absolute
distinctness the many hours she had spent
kneeling there. She could see still the solemn
march of the stars across the violet sky, and feel
again the deep content which had been one of
her own strongest proofs that her position was
not wrong. So divine is love, so high does it

spring above all earthly stains to its quencMess
source !

He was now in the same position, under the
same influences, that she was then. She must
remember this, and not be unjust, but give him
time.

With the leaf, holding the heart's blood of
the year, she closed her journal for ever. It
was a fitting seal for the past.

She then read over and sealed her letter to
Madame d'Isten. As she closed it Margaret's
voice was heard at the door.

May I come in? I have something for you.'

It was a cablegram from Eene : birthday
greetings, and hoping she was well.

The very sweetness of this attention, this

thoughtfulness which was so sure a proof of

affection, made the task before her still bitterer.

But it must be done. She smiled faintly as she

put the open telegram in her sister's hand, and

said :

VOL. III. H

A little longer, dear ; my work is not quite
done and Margaret reluctantly left her.

The letter to Eene was now to be finished ;
the last — the very last. She told him of her
change in opinions, and how it had come about ;
how she had struggled long, through conflicts
the deathless of which she let him guess that
he might be aided to an equal devotion to principle;
and how at last she had become convinced
that their correspondence would be a sin.
The renunciation of it had not been without its
consolation, she told him ; for if our greatest
desire is to live rightly, truth becomes sweeter
and dearer to us than any error possibly can be.

Then she spoke to him of his wife ; of how
her aunt had told her that Madame d'Isten was
in a precarious position, tempted to do wrong on
every side, and that he had granted all her
desires, however repugnant to himself. She
recalled how they had once named him an
'ideal husband,' but said, that since she had

thought more, she realised he failed with his
wife, as they had with one another, in not holding
principle highest of all. Where persons
were to be sacrificed, he was generous in sacrificing
himself; but principles should never be
sacrificed to any person. No happiness is so
necessary as nobility. Indulgence is not always
laudable. Instead of permitting any intercourse,
even of the slightest, between his wife and her
former lover, he should endeavour to prevent it
with all his force. ' Hurt her, no matter how
deeply,' wrote Bethesda ; ' cut away her dearest
wishes, but do not let her remain in the atmosphere
of sin.' He should be severe with himself
as with her; severe with her as with
himself. Generosity may be weak ; mercy also ;
clear-sighted justice should be the foundation of
our actions. To his wife he could give aid ; her
he could serve by active use, but he and Bethesda
must bear the consequences of their past in complete
separation. Their lives would bring their

BETHESDA. [PART II.

consequences in the future as well as the present.
Like mingles with like throughout life and immortality,
and so their lives would join or divide
as they were similar or dissimilar.

To this letter Bethesda now added a few
grateful lines for his good wishes, and ended
with the words, ^ I trust you.'

She said them over and over to herself as she
sealed the letter, and in it her hopes, her life
itself. She had fought hard ; she had thus far
conquered. She had made her supreme renunciation
to the cold but complaint - hushing
majesty of virtue. That it was right was
sufficient ; but she could not help feeling what
a consolation it would be to know the tenderness
of religion, and to do right because God
willed.

What remained now but death ?

Margaret ! ' came the heart's quick cry,
and her sister was in the room the same
instant.

Alien Marcott brought word that the letters
were registered and mailed Bethesda let herself
sink back on the pillows, and, as Margaret bent
to kiss her :

Good-night, dear,' she said, and fell asleep.

Love is a distinction of two, who yet, for each, other, are
simply not distinguished. . I have my self-consciousness in
another, not in myself ; yet it is another in which alone I am
satisfied and at peace with, myself. . . . This perceiving, this
feeling, this cognisant of unity is love.' — Hegel.

^ There are in the world but two loves — the love of self
extending to the contempt of God, and the love of God extending
to the contempt of self.' — St. Augustine.

Bethesda's letter reached Eene one day in
January as lie was about to go to the minister.
He turned back to his room, the one she had occupied,
where a cheery fire was burning, and every
article of furniture, every breath of air, seemed
to welcome him in the name of his beloved.
How good she was to be thus always beside him.
How many men would wish to be in his place,
feeling themselves watched over by the tenderness
of so incomparable a woman !

He seated himself in the wine-red fauteuil,
where her dainty form had often been luxuriously
supported, and took from the locked drawer of
the desk her picture, which he turned towards
him and regarded with joyous expectation.

Thou hast Tv^itten,' he cried. ' Once more
naught is between us. Thou art my Bethesda ! '

He touched the letter to forehead, lips, and
breast before opening it with Oriental homage, as
if to pledge his whole being to her anew, and
then he broke the seal.

Three hours later he still sat staring at the
pages in his hands.

Yet the dethronement of all his ideal hopes
had not come upon him vdth the suddenness
Bethesda had anticipated. During the months
of silence between them he had, with his usual
foresight, attempted to face every possibility,,
and adapt his possible codes of action to . the
various manners in which Bethesda might write.
In hearing of her failing health, and seeing ]airs.

Trescott's increased rancour towards him, he
understood the battle Bethesda was fighting, and
had tried to follow her by guesses, some approximating
the truth, some as distant as the poles
from the reality. By dint of these imaginings
he had fancied he was prepared to face anything,
from a burst of warm sunshine to a temporary
eclipse ; but the complete sacrifice she asked was
a renunciation surpassing any he had dreamed of
making.

Once recognising her unblessed will, however,
it became his sole possible course. He never
thought of combating her decision ; he accepted
it as supreme and inviolable. His submission
was not easy ; on the contrary, it was inexpressibly
hard. He read over and over again her
words with dry, burning eyes ; with an agony of
sorrow that bliss was denied them both ; with a
bitter outcry against fate; but always with
entire obedience to her.

Had any one praised or blamed him then, he

would have looked at the speaker in bewilderment
and said simply :

How can I do differently *? Do I not love
her ? '

Such obedience to what is accepted as the
highest, such devotion to what one beloved asks,
is perhaps the most perfect of all foundations for
nobility of character. In this Eene d'Isten's
nature was of the finest feminine fibre, — as
prayer is feminine, as the Church is said to bethe
bride of Christ, — but it was also feminine in
that it obeyed and followed where Bethesda
reasoned and led. This was not altogether
wrong. The two had in some ways interchanged
their attributes, as all men and women must at
certain periods. It is a woman's place to be a
lawgiver in family relations, as it is a man's in
politics and science. It is a woman's place to
lead in spiritual things, in fine perceptions of
truth, in the chiselling of life, as it is a man's to
lead in hewing out the strong blocks of institutions

which build up the world. Woman must
be in many instances conservative and discriminating,
where man can be audacious and
radical ; but it is only as all these feminine and
masculine qualities modify one another by interruption
that the perfect human being ensues.

Now Eene was far from perfect. His obedience
was not to Grot nor right, but to the creature
he loved best. He had himself said of the ardent
phrases which Thomas a Kempis addresses to the
lover of his soul, ^ I could sooner say that to my
friends than to God.' And now his words were
verified. Had it been possible for him to imagine
Bethesda commanding him to do something
wrong, as now she did the right, he knew he
would have obeyed, trusting her beyond himself.
And he did at present. He could not see the
wickedness of exchanging letters with the purest
woman he had ever known, but since she said so
he would think it so.

The suppressed anguish within him at last,

however, drove him to restless pacing of the room.
A thirst for a sight of her, for a glance into her
eyes, for a touch from her hand, was so extreme
that his brain reeled. To make this renunciation
visibly with her, to have palpable contact at least
long enough to separate, — these were his maddening
thoughts.

o o

He tore open his cravat and leaned far out of
the window, where the leafless vines were rubbing
dully against the wall. The bleak wind around
his head was balmy in comparison to the icy
doom upon him. He drew back with a groan,
and took her picture in both hands and looked
into the steady eyes with a wild intensity.

Never to see thee ag-ain ? ' he muttered.
Never to hear thy voice ? Never to touch thy
hand ? Ah, how cruel is God ! It would be so
little to him, so much to me — to us ! For thou
lowest me, Escla ! Each word of thy earnest sentences
is pressed full of tenderness. And God to
destroy such love ! But it cannot be destroyed I

It will endure ! it shall endure ! In spite of the
world and time and death, we shall be united
somewhere ! ^

He had raised his hand as if taking an oath ;
now slowly it fell to his side, and before her
picture he dropped to his knees.

Help me, Bethesda, as thou hast done. Thou
art a saint and holy; thou raises me with
thee. We cannot be disunited. We will be true
to one another for ever. So help me God and
Esda ! '

He rose with a reverential quietude in his
manner, and adjusted his dress, and took his hat
to go out ; but he turned as he reached the door,
hot tears standing in his eyes. The contrast
between the incoming and the outgoing was excruciating.
He faltered, then flung his hat aside,
and fell down before the red chair, burying his
face in it, while his form was convulsed with hard
sobs.

He looked years older when he finally stood

erect again, and this eyes were sunken and dull.
He pulled this list down over them and went out,
tills time without turning; back. A long; walk
somewhat re-established his equipoise, and with
it came a great compassion for her who had been
obliged to transfix her own heart in thus stabbing
He went rapidly to the Bourse and sent the
following; cable message : —

^ Thy ^dll is my law.'

Invigorated by this he returned to his hotel,
and vote to Louise in the spirit that Bethesda
had commanded. He asked his wife to come
to him, saying that he had committed errors
as great as hers, but not greater, and that he
believed it was their duty to help one another,
resigning: themselves to the bond which united
them, and endeavouring; to strengthen and ennoble
each other's Eves. He spoke clearly but tenderly
of the temptations which he knew assailed her,
and asked her to think seriously before she again
refused to come to him. He told her that an

angel from heaven lead given him new light,
which he asked her to share, so that they might
strive towards the right together.

He wrote with a profound sadness, and, he
thought, as profound a resignation ; but, when the
letter was done, he turned to Bethesda's former
letters with an elan of desperation which was
thoroughly characteristic of the man.

Outwardly, in actions, in words, in appearance
even to himself, he bent to the inevitable with a
pliancy which was as far removed from weakness
as is that of a finely-tempered steel blade. But
deep within him at times there came a fierce revulsion,
a snapping back of the defiant sword,
which shocked his whole physical and psychical
system, and left him tingling with a surcharge of
electric force. This was his condition now. Had
the chivalric spirit within him been restored to
the chivalric era whence it descended, he would,
in this mood, have traversed lands and seas, and
won the woman he loved at the point of the

sword, regardless of all laws save those of force
and love.

But the woman lie loved did not belong to
that era. she was essentially modern, — that is,
endowed with the supremacy of mind over matter,
of morality over desire, of thought over action ;
and he recognised that, did he have her in his
power, did he hold her never so close, the gulf
between them would be only widened, implacable,
absolute. His sole power of bridging it was in
yielding, and drawing near to her, above the
physical, in the same spirit as that which possessed
her, thus annihilating space, and making
them to stand side by side, heart touching heart,
in spite of distance and silence.

The fierce ancestral ultraism was exorcised, and
he cleaved with new strength to his allegiance.
He again took out her last letter and pored over
it, weighing every sentence, and reading to the
subtlest feather touch of feeling between the lines.

She was crushing her heart down under the

o

weight of rigid law, before which she had laid
herself and him as before a Juggernaut, looking
with calm but unutterably sad eyes at the advance
of the deity to whom all sacrifices were due. His
darling ? His Esda ? Was her delicate, sensitive
nature thus to be mangled and he stand by
motionless ? Horrible ! But — and the thought
made him seat himself again whence he had risen
with fury — it was her will, it was her command,
and they were but one. What she did he did,
as by a law of nature.

The next day Eene was writing an answer —
his final words — to Bethesda, when several letters
were brought him from Louise. He had received
none for some time, as floods had interfered with
postal arrangements.

Before receiving Bethesda's letter he had
written to Louise with veiled suggestions, and
had quoted several things Bethesda had admired.
In one of the letters now before him Louise said
these remarks had inspired her with the wish to

be near him, protected from herself by him, and
sbe had resolved to leave the following week for
Paris. On further thought, however, she had
concluded to spare him this derangement of his
life, and the annoyance she might cause him.
This was the last time, she wrote, that she would
speak of her troubles ; not that she should cease
to be frank, but because there would soon be an
end of this for her. She begged him to think of
her with compassion on the day when her lover
was to be transferred to another province, and
yet not to be sorrow-ful, for she would soon be no
longer in danger of soiling his name and honour.

What did it mean ? The letter was the gentlest
he had ever received from her. Was she decided
on entering a convent, of which she had often
spoken 1 Or was she again thinking of suicide ?
Or did she simply wish to imply that with her
lover's departure she would be no longer tempted ?

This was the most probable, but the others
were quite possible. She was of an unseasonable

VOL. HI. I

cast of mind, and prone to follow every impulse.
What would have been Bethesda's advice were
she there now ? He quickly decided, and sent
Louise a despatch saying that an important
letter had crossed hers, and for her to do nothing
until she received it, unless it was to come to
him, which would greatly gratify him. Then he
wrote testifying his sympathy, and forgiving her
freely, saying he also had need of forgiveness,
and urging her to come to him. '

There are few men who demand of themselves
as much as they do of their wives, and who consider
that a sin is as great in a man as a woman.
It was one of the best traits of Eene d'Isten's
character that he had given himself even less
liberty than he had accorded to Louise, and that
now he was quick in acknowledging his fault as
grave as hers, although there were not as many
months in his error as there were years in hers,
and many circumstances which had seemed to
purify his connection with Bethesda were lacking

in Madame d'lsten's situation. Although Eene
d'Isten had fallen from the ideal of stainless
purity, which was now being developed in him
through Bethesda, many men would be bettered
if they did no worse. It was his consciousness
of this which had assured him of his power to be
unlike other men.' He had at least lived upto
the intellectual perception of purity which
he had gained through his life's experience,
and now he was advancing ahead of it and of
her.

When he returned to his letter to Bethesda he
told her what had occurred, and added : ' My
life shall be spent in fulfilling thy desires. God
sent me Bethesda as one of his heavenly host in
the hour of great need. Without her what
would I have been ? When the devil tempts mea
voice from the depths of my conscience calls :
'' Bethesda !" and the temptation flees. When I
wish help and advice I think : " What would
Bethesda say ? " and my mind becomes clear.

When I need strength to follow the dictates of
wisdom I invoke thee to aid me.'

It seemed more than he could do, more than
strength would allow, to send away this letter, —
this acquiescence in a lot which was torture ; this
ultimate, final word. But * Bethesda wills ! '
came up from his heart, and he accepted what
was decreed by her beloved hand.

The letter was registered and sent, and then
he succumbed to a morne despair. It lasted all
the long night ; but Rene knew too well the
vital necessity of equilibrium to let himself be
thrown from it without a struggle. There are
some natures to whom this centre of gravity is
more necessary than to others. To lose it means
to them to lose sanity, an irretrievable loss.
Others can be pushed down on either side, can
be crushed almost in their fall, and yet regain,
even retain, mental action. Such was one of the
differences between Rene and Bethesda.

In the icy dawn Rene walked swiftly down the

Champs Elysees — bitter mockery! — and on and
on interminably. As lie reached a church where
he had once been with Bethesda early Mass was
just beginning, and the organ notes seemed to
summon him to enter. He went in. There
were few present, only some working girls, thin
and worn, who, in the midst of this great sceptical
city, had risen early to have a word of comfort
before proceeding to their dreary drudgery.

M. d'Isten stopped just inside T\dth his hat in
his hand, but little reverence in his heart. At a
side altar near him a young priest was droning
through the service in an uninterested monotone.
The church was close, and chill, and dark. It
all seemed to him senseless frippery and affectation.
One touch, a single breath from the lips
of his beloved, would mean so infinitely more to
him, and this God denied him. He turned to
go. Just then there flashed the first level sunbeam
through the painted window against the
pillar where Bethesda had stood months before.

The golden light in the dark church might have
easily been mistaken for the visible glory around
the head of a saint.

Eene sank on his knees. His eyes were fixed
with wide intensity on the yellow sunshine, and,
as plainly, he saw the shining masses of hair, the
pearly brow, the deep eyes which looked at him,
which held him, which shone through him with an
unspeakable tenderness and bravery. They quelled
each rebellious thought, every element of despair,
and left him, as the vision dissolved, resigned.

He drew a long breath and rose. There were a
dozen pairs of curious eyes upon him, but he did
not notice them. They saw him drop several
Napoleons into the aumdniSre, and go out into
the now sunny street with a lightened step. He
had lifted the burden God and Esda had given
him to bear with a heartfelt peace. The two
were the same to his mind for the time. Obedience
to the one meant now, at least, submission
to the other.

Time aim of life is action, not a thought.' — Carlyle.

How strangely fair
Yon round still star ! which looks half-suffering from,
And half-rejoicing in its own strong fire.
Making itself a livelihood of light.'

On returning to his rooms Eene chasten found no
small event to try his new-found tranquillity. A
telegram from Louise awaited him, demanding
that he should come to her. She had received a
letter from America, and was ill.

The news alarmed and angered him. Had
Mrs. Trescott taken it upon herself to interfere 1
This was too much. There was no saying what
awaited him, or where it would end. Complications
were entangling themselves around him.
He was unprepared for this, and it was singularly

distasteful to him. He strenuously objected to
disturbance of regulated actions, or, if anything
was to be changed, he wished to have the master-hand
in the matter. This surprise, thus sprung
upon him where his position was weakest,
annoyed him extremely. He did not think of
it as a possibility, in these first moments, that
Bethesda was the one who had written to
Louise.

But even if she had — for he came to this at last
it was not her place to have taken such a responsibility,
and, for the first time in their whole
acquaintance, he was thoroughly out of S3riiipathy
with an action which perhaps was hers. He was
selling to leave the guiding of his life, his happiness
or misery, in Bethesda's hands ; but when
she came into the relations between him and his
wife, from the ife's side, she overlooked limits
which she ought to have seen and regarded.

How often do men argue in the same manner
\\dth their submission to God ! The parallel is

not irreverent here, for, to Rene d'lsten, Bethesda
at this time practically represented God. He
submitted to her decrees, threw his heart before
her, laid himself at her feet in profound humility,
he thought : but there were some conditions nth
which she must not interfere unless she wished
him to rebel, and here was one of these. Yet,
perhaps, could Bethesda have seen him during
these moments of anger and severe blame of her,
she might have bravely recognised that this was
what she had aimed at, for in truth she was
detaching him from herself, and attaching him
to the place where his duty lay, and thus her
end was being accomplished.

He sent a telegram to Louise saying he would
start that night, and for her to trust in him.
Then he went to the finisterre, where he found
some trouble in gaining leave of absence, and in
the evening threw himself into the express-with
the determination to resist all intrusions, and
arrange his life to suit himself. He was worn

out ; his nerves were unstrung with the tense
strain of severe and conflicting emotions; but,
as the train whirled him through the dark land,
and all voluntary motion was unnecessary, he
seemed to leave his body resting in the corner,
while his mind was free and active. In this
state, in the solitary silence of the carriage, with
the stars looking down, better thoughts came to
him.

If Mrs. Trescott had done this — why, that
was one thing, and he clearly had a right to be
indignant ; but if Bethesda, his Esda, had written
to Louise — that was quite a different affair. What
would she have written ? What would have been
her reasons for writing at all ?

He took out her letter, and re-read it. Why
she should have written was still a mystery, but,
if she had written, it probably was to try and
bring Louise to him, as here in this letter she
had tried to take him to Louise.

Would a woman who loved do that ? Could

she ? Was jealousy so far removed from even
the daintiest feminine breast as to desire and
work to the end of being replaced ? Impossible !
And yet, if any woman could do it, that woman
would be Bethesda. He could imagine her standing
between him and Louise, and joining their
hands, with a far-away tenderness in her deep
eyes.

Bah ! He was idealising her too far ! He
was making her into a bloodless angel, not a
clinging, devoted, impassioned woman, such ashe
— no one so well ! — had known her.

But if it were Bethesda who had smitten,
which he more and more inclined to believe, this
should be the end towards which he would work.
He would show Louise that the alteration Bethesda
had made in him was all for the better, that
he had gained a new strength under her influence,
and was now, at her wish, ready to sacrifice a
great and innocent happiness which might fiend
Louise.

Ah, beloved !' he exclaimed, smiling softly.
Not thus canst thou detach me. So long as I
live nobly, it will be hand-in-hand with thee.'

When he reached M his anxieties were on

the alert, but outwardly he was calm ; perhaps
even a trifle more unruffled than usual. He
kissed the hand of his mother-in-law, who met
him with a sharp interrogation in her eyes ; asked
after his wife's health with solicitude, and, learning
that she was no better, and almost delirious
with desire to see him, excused himself instantly,
and went to her apartments.

Louise was in the somewhat untidy, though
luxurious boudoir, lying on a sofa in a negligee
of crimson wool, over which her hair fell in stray
locks that gave her a gipsy-like appearance. Her
handsome face was disfigured with weeping, and,
beneath that, an habitual expression of discontent.
Her mouth was unpossessed and trembling,
and, as she saw Eene, she rose impetuously and
fell upon his neck with a sudden cry of —

My husband ! my husband V

Never had he been so warmly greeted by her,
and it was with sadness that he thought what
joy such a welcome would at one time have given
him. Now it was too late.

He supported her, however, with a firm tenderness,
and gradually made her more composed
by reassuring words. He prevailed upon her to
sit down at last, and placed himself beside her.
Even as he did so a rumpled letter, half-hidden
among the pillows, and bearing the well-known
characters of Bethesda's handwriting, caught his
eyes.

It was from her, then. The thought steadied
him. The consistency of Bethesda's character
made it possible for him to repose upon her.
With Mabel the opposite would have been the
case, and the reasons equally good.

Louise, quick to see now, noticed his glance,
and instantly seized the obnoxious letter, and
thrust it into his hands.

Head it ! ' she cried, with a passionate wail in
her voice. ' Tell me if it is true. Who is this
woman who writes to me so authoritatively ?
What has she to do with me, or I with her V

She had caught his arm, and was leaning forward
to look in his face with wild eyes.

Let me read it first,' was the gentle answer.

No 1 no ! tell me first. I cannot wait longer.
Who is this " Bethesda Hamilton " ? See ! there
is the name signed. Now, who is she V

There was a fiery rebuke in her eyes, but he
met them without fear. After a moment's steady
gaze he said slowly :

Do you forget what I told you of a literary
correspondence with Miss Hamilton ? I will add
this now : She is the noblest of women, and she
is your and my best friend.'

Ah, my Eene ! my husband ! do not say
that ! ' cried Louise, throwing herself back in
despair ; ^ she too says it, she too ! and now you
confirm her ! — Am I then nothing to you V

She tried to draw herself up haughtily at these
last words, but he laid his hand over hers and
said in a low tone :

'Thou art my T\ife, Louise; thou must remember
that. We must always be much to one another.'

'Must!' exclaimed Louise, sith bitterness.
No, it is not necessary. I can free myself —
and you.' '

Not without crime,' said Eene in a distinct
whisper.

She shrank away from him appalled.

Head the letter,' she said ; ' we 'v^ill talk
afterwards.'

She sat and scanned his face as he read. He
did not hasten ; he Wished to be well permeated
with the spirit of Bethesda.

She was in truth the angel he had dreamed,
only far surpassing his vision in compassionate
tenderness and pathos. It was no bloodless saint
who wrote this, but one whose blood became the
wine of life to others.

Well ? ' said Louise impatiently, as she saw
his eyes reach and linger on the end.

Did I not speak truth ? ' he answered with a
proud and reverential tone.

How V asked Louise defiantly.

Hast thou once thought, Louise, of what this
letter meant to her ? Hast thou thought what
she takes from herself to offer to thee ? She has
told you nothing but the truth, and the whole
truth. She held the destinies of my life in her
hand, and for you, on your account alone, Louise,
she has sacrificed herself and me. She has given
up all the innocent happiness we might have had
without infringing your rights, but which she
feared might offend you. Further, — listen a
moment, Louise, — further, she speaks to you as
to a sister ; she asks you to let her be a sister
to you. She has sympathy with you and a
heart full of compassion, but she knows also
what is right, and she is too humble to think
herself stronger than others, and so expects them

to do whatever right may demand. Ah, it is
hard, Louise ! She knows it, and I know it.
But to noble natures it is possible. She knows
thou hast much nobility, for I also spoke the
truth, and you see she appeals to that nobility
in you. She desires, she yearns to help you to
overcome temptation and sorrow. She sees that
it is right for you and me to be united, and she
tries to make us happier for her coming into our
lives. This is the angel who shed a new light
on my path. She has, I know well, already
made me a better and a truer husband to you,
Louise. Let her help you also. She says here,
see, that there is no happiness which would be
so great to her as to aid you in carrying your
burdens, or in relieving you from them. She
would be willing to carry the burdens of the
whole world to help others !' he exclaimed in an
irrepressible outburst. Then calming : ' Louise,
my Tvdfe, why should this letter, so brave, so
gentle, have caused a tumult in your soul, ex-vol.

III. K

kept because you know she advises you rightly ?
During the seven years that we have been
married, you will acknowledge that I have not
complained. Neither do I now. Let this letter
commence a new era in our lives, Louise. We
have both erred; we both need forgiveness. I give
you mine freely ; give me yours, and let us walk
together towards where this saint's hand points.'

Louise d'Isten was melted and silenced, she
knew not how. The something new in her husband
produced a profound impression upon her.
The modulations of his voice stirred her strangely;
its reticent sadness, its dignified contrition touched
the barren rock of self-pity into a gushing, if
momentary, fountain of sorrow for another.

She struggled with her tears a few moments
in silence. Then she turned and buried her face
on her husband's breast, and clung to him with
an entirely new yearning. He held her to him
closely, and his face was illuminated as he murmured
in his heart :

Art thou content, Saint Esda V

Rene stayed with his wife for six weeks. They
drew closer together than they had ever done
through the communion of a sorrow shared, a
double forgiveness, and an awakening of new
life in the feelings of Louise towards her husband.
She was c[uite ill for a time ; now burning
with fever, and again exhausted by its
reaction. He tended her with the closest care,
and an almost feminine delicacy ; but there was
a distance between them she could never cross.
Sometimes she would waken to find him staring
at the floor with an expression of such pain that
it tore her heart. Yet she could not appear to
be awake or his face would change instantly to
a look of cheerful service, and the mask he kept
for her, she told herself bitterly, would again
cover his face.

Remorse and retribution were mingled in
those days for her. She was beginning to
realise what she had thrown away, and with

her lover s ultimate departure, which had occurred
the day before Eene's arrival, the stronghold
of selfishness and mistaken devotion was
thrown down, and nothing was left to interfere
with the invading army of feelings, hopes, and
fears, complex and mystifying even to herself,
which had possessed her since she had seen her
husband in his new aspect, and had known the
strong forces at work in his life.

She felt an insuperable jealousy for Bethesda,
and yet an awe, as of something uncomprehended
and powerful, in view of the supreme renunciation
which that distant woman had made in her behalf.
She began to ask herself unwilling questions :
Would she have done such a thing for the wife of
Alphonse ? No ! was the instant defiant answer.
But then, that was not the same ; it could not
be the same ; and yet, she was forced to ask :
Why not ? Surely Kene, her husband (again defiantly),
was worthy of a woman's love, more so,
indeed, than most men. This Bethesda was not

the first one who had found him noble in character
and fine in intellect. And then she turned
to study him, and to see in him the many traits
which a woman, ' if she were so inclined,' would
love. Gradually she found herself becoming
detached from the past which was perforce gone
from her, and working in the present ; half unconsciously
it is true, but perhaps none the less
earnestly ; while towards the future she looked
with a wholly unknown zest, — something more
than zest — a desire, a longing to make the future
different and better, and to do somewhat for
Kene as he had been so long, she now saw, doing
for her.

From this point she grew better, and many
were the long and quiet talks she and Rene had
during the weeks which followed all too softly.
There was a calmness, a recueillement about him
at times, however, which drove her to solitary
despair. She was put and kept so far away !
She had put herself there, true ; it had used to

be her pleasure, but now, in spite of her endeavours,
still paroxysmal and egotistic, something
ever came between them ; a distance, a
transparent wall of feeling, which separated them
relentlessly.

Sometimes she would go to the mirror, after
a recognition of this blank fatality, and would
push back her hair, and gaze at the handsome
face pitifully enough.

Of course you are not comparable to that
blonde Bethesda ! ' she caught herself saying one
day. ' She is beautiful, and young, and fresh
and you ? You have cried away your beauty,
and your youth, and your freshness ; he cannot
care for you ! '

She threw a veil over the mirror, and went
away sullenly. It was no use trying. Alphonse
might forgive her for the beauty which had been
lost through grief for him, but this would hardly
be a passport to Eene's favour. That fair Bethesda,
with her earnest devotion and incomprehensible

self-sacrifice, kept constantly coming
between her and her husband. Ah, she knew
what it was ! Had not Alphonse's face haunted
her most when her husband was present ? And
and now, — she did not know what to make of
it ; it required an effort for her to be able to
recall his features. But Eene had no effort to
make to see this Americaine^s. No, not he !
There he was now T\T:iting, and if not to her, he
was thinking' of her. ' I miorht as well be dead,
and out of the way at once,' she murmured between
half suppressed sobs.

And then Eene would close the desk softly,
and would join her, and draw her to him — ' As
if I were his sister ! ' she would think indignantly.
But she would not move away, and soon either
the tones of his voice, or the sight of his self-contained
face, would hush her complaining, and
once more good spirits would reign.

The mother-in-law knew nothing of the explanation
which had brought Louise and her

husband closer together than ever since their
marriage. It was not a request of Eene's, but
an instinct in the heart of Louise, that kept
Bethesda and all pertaining to her a conjugal
secret. At least in this she was nearer her
husband than any one else ; and meantime he
spoke to his wife quite freely, if with tact, of
Bethesda. He wished to keep the fact of her
bringing them together continually before the
mind of Louise, and indeed of his own. He was
growing to feel a certain sense of her being out
of his reach, beyond him, which the entire silence
falling after her last noble words naturally increased.
To dispel this he would talk to Louise
of Bethesda's character, and aims, and history.
He told her of the family conditions surrounding
Bethesda ; of her position and wealth ; but his
manner was always as if he were mentioning one
very dear to him, now dead. Occasionally a
perception of this would come over him with a
shudder. It might be a presentiment.

It was in consequence of these conversations
that Madame d'Isten finally resolved to write to
Miss Hamilton. She did not know what she
should say, but she believed the act would please
her husband, and it was only polite to acknowledge
the receipt of her letter, and to tell her that she
was not offended. For it had really come to this.
She was no long-er offended T\ith Bethesda : she
felt the good this catastrophe had brought her,
and fore-felt the developments which in the future
might spring from it. Not that she was conscious
of any of this, but the possibilities hovered about
her like protecting angels, and seemed to enshrine
the thought of the far-away woman in an atmosphere
of benignity, and, yes, of gratitude.

It would have been impossible for her to express
this, but when one day she came to Eene,
and said timidly :

"Would you like me to — to T\T:ite to '

'Bethesda?' he exclaimed, springing up, and
catching her hands in glad approval.

Almost as quickly did he realise what was in
her mind, and the manner in which she regarded
his saint. So, his fairest dreams were perhaps
to be accomplished ! Bethesda and Louise
would be personal friends ! It was almost too
good to be true.

He drew Louise towards the desk to secure
the good deed while she was still in the mood ;
and she seated herself, trembling a little, not
alone with fear, but with the stabbing pain of
jealousy that came and went in her heart. He
liked her so much better now that she was going
to do something for this * Bethesda ! '

He spread paper and ink and pen before her,
and then moved away, not to disturb her, and to
indulge in the visions this act of hers created.
But it was not at all her purpose to let it separate
them ; what she wished was to be near him, to
have him take an active interest in her, — he
might at least while she was writing this letter !
So she called him back to tell her how to commence

it, and then, what should she say ?-

Didn't she know ? — Of course she didn't ! This
woman was a writer, and he must express it all
for her, dictate it to her, in fact. He was too
wise for this, however, and only asked her, what
did she Tvdsh to express ? That was precisely the
point, she replied ; what did she ?

Then there came a quick perception to him of
the lack of earnestness in her, and a sight of the
grieved face of Bethesda had she seen the light
spirit in which her poignant utterances were to
be answered. His manner grew very grave, and
he spoke to Louise vdth the greatest seriousness,
taking; out Bethesda's letter, and re-reading; her
parts of it, which did not lose any of their pathos
in his rendering.

Soon Louise was weeping on his shoulder,
crying out that she was not worthy to be his
wife, and that she wished she could be dead or
better.

That last is right,' said he, encouragingly.

We must both, wish to be better. My wife has
no need to wish death ; neither ought she. Our
life is given us to live, and to live as nobly as we
can, not to throw away. Look up, my Louise.
Be strong. Take thy pen and write. Answer
this letter as it is written. Tell her frankly
what you feel. It will be received with more
tender comprehension than any one, except God,
could receive it.'

Thus exhorted, Louise wiped her eyes, and
commenced the letter. Her husband sat close
beside her, his hands folded, and his eyes benton
the floor. She looked at him many times
during the first few sentences, which were embarrassed
and confused ; but he did not glance at
her, and she felt the spell of his will to continue.
Presently the volubility of her own emotions
overcame her ; her timidity was swept away
in the stream of expression which seemed to
gush from her very heart. She almost forgot
to whom she was writing, and felt more as if

this were a sacred confession, than a letter to
any one.

Soon Eene found that he could look at her
unnoticed, and he was surprised to find the vivid
interest he took in watching the turbulent expressions
which chased one another across her
face, as her hand swept over page after page.
Tears and fire alternately extinguished one
another in her eyes ; her mouth now" moved
with a passionate exclamation, and again grew
piteous with a sense of her sorrows. And at last,
when she signed her name and threw down her
pen, holding the still wet sheets out to her husband,
she had never appealed to him more.

He took the pages from her, and pressed a
warm kiss on her hand ; a caress which made her
rise abruptly and leave him. She stood in the
embrasured window looking out on the busy
street regardless of everything. ' What will he
think V she was saying to herself, and wishing —
almost wishing — she had not o-iven it to him.

When he had not half finished he came up
behind her, and drawing her arm through his led
her to a seat.

My wife he said in a tone penetrated with
tender comprehension, ' there is much left tous
yet

Then he sat beside her holding her hand while
he completed the epistle. The letter had done
service already, whether it ever reached its
destination or not. It had cleared away much of
the debits of the shattered past, and shown Eene
the love which was sprouting, all unconsciously
to Louise, amid the fragments and the dust now
watered by tears of repentance. Was it too
late ?

At the same time that he had this letter
registered he took from the mail a note forwarded
from Paris. It was from Miss Conover, saying
she was in the city, and would be pleased to see
him. Just at the end there was a perturbing
question : ' Have you heard whether Miss Hamilton

is better ? Her severe illness since New
Year's Day alarms me. I am hoping daily for a
letter from at least Mrs. Trescott.'

Bethesda severely ill, and all communication
broken ! Suffering for bim too ! The whole
fierce tide of his longing set suddenly towards
her again. It was too much to be borne in
inaction. He must hasten to Paris, wherethrough
Miss Conover, he might occasionally
shear of his beloved, his angel, his saint — perhaps
already his saint in heaven !

Louise was now spite recovered, and able to
journey to Paris if she liked, and his leave of
absence had been unduly prolonged. He asked
her the same evening if she would return with
him. It was necessary he should go at once.

Louise looked up at him quickly, and urged
him to stay with her old imperiousness, which he
had generally obeyed. But now he was inflexible.
Indeed his anxiety made him preoccupied
and stern, an effect which Louise was

not long in perceiving. She waited and watched ;
asked until the morning before she should decide ;
went and consulted her mother, who did not aid
her even by contradiction, showing an entire
indifference. Finally Louise took her courage
in both hands, and asked Eene somewhat
abruptly :

Have you news of Bethesda V

His mind was so full of the thought that he
was not surprised.

Yes,' he said, in a tone of such tense self-control
that it was almost harsh ; ' sl friend in
Paris writes me she is severely ill. She may now
even No, she cannot be '

He broke off short, and walked with long
strides to the window. He stood there a longtime
quite motionless, and the twilight deepened
unbroken and chill around them. When he
turned at last Louise spoke in a low voice :

I think I will not go to Paris with you.'

Always do as you like,' he answered, a weary

indifference piercing through the courtesy of his
tone.

She rose and came to stand beside him, where
he had fallen into a chair.

*No, my Eene/ she said, with a gentleness
that roused him. "' It has been, as you say,
always as I liked ; now I hope it will be something
better. It is for your sake, dear Eene,'
she said, suddenly dropping to her knees beside
him ; ' it is for your sake I say I will not go to
Paris. If — if you are anxious, you will not want
me, and — and — ■ — -'

Come,' he said simply, putting one arm
around her as she knelt there. ' Come with
me.'

• No, no ; not now she answered, rising. ^ It
is too soon ; I could not get ready. My maid
T\T.ll not go — I '

Put these things aside, Louise,' said her
husband earnestly. He had risen also, and was
standing facias her. It would be hard for him

VOL. HI. L

to have her there ; he knew that ; but he knew
also it was what Bethesda would have wished.
Don't let little things stand in the way, for it is
right we should be together. Come.'

But her devotion, such as it was, was entirely
personal. ' Eight ' was a chilly word ; he should
go alone.

Perhaps pique strengthened this feeling, and
innate obstinacy fixed it. In any case, she
would not go with him ; their good understanding
was broken ; and it was a relief to him
when in the next mail train he left alone for
bachelor life, and news of Bethesda in Paris.

If to conquer love has tried,
To conquer grief tries more . as all things prove,
For grief indeed is love and grief beside.'

Mrs. Browning,

She cried, " I am the sister of white Faith
Who sits serenely in the open heaven,
To whom I minister ; thus ever driven
About the world, and Anguish named.

Yet I
Too, am divine." ' "W. C. Roscoe.

On arriving in the city Eene went immediately
to the address Mademoiselle Cinoni lead sent
him. She wsls receiving and singing for a few
friends. It was a piece Rene had last heard
when with Bethesda in London, and now, when
his anxiety and fears had grown with every mile
of the long journey, these familiar tones struck
through him a shivering; discord.

He asked to see Mrs. Conover an instant,
pencilling it on the back of Hs card. She came
out immediately, and urged him to enter, but he
excused himself as not suitably attired.

Can you tell me if Miss Conover has heard
from America as to the health of Miss Hamilton ? '
he asked, then, in a well-schooled voice.

Mrs. Conover's face grew grave and grieved,
as she replied :

Yes ; a letter came from Mrs. Trescott yesterday.
Miss Hamilton is hardly to be expected to
live, I fear. She was such a sweet girl, too !
Mrs. Trescott wrote hastily, and in great distress.
It will be a terrible blow to her. If you will
call tomorrow Guinevere will let you read the
letter,' she added gently, somewhat recognising
in the sudden pallor and gray lips of M. d'Isten
the shock she had given.

Thank you,' he contrived to say. ' At what
hour may I hope V

At eleven, if you like.'

He bowed, not daring; to trust himself to
speak further, and left the house. The coolness
and darkness were a temporary relief to him,
and he hurried away out of the sound of that
haunting;, horrible sono'.

She u'a5 a sweet girl ! This putting it in the
past tense was unendurable. And how could Bethesda's
friend sing when, perhaps — it was true ?

He set his teeth and walked on. The cabman
followed him, clamouring for his pay. Eene
looked up finally, as one might at the buzz of
an insect, and then remembered that he had left
his portmanteau containing the precious package
of letters in the carriage. He sprang in, seized
the handles, and held them tight during the
drive to his hotel. Thevv had been looking for
him, and now the servants rushed out to assist
him, and madame, seeing his stern, tense face,
exclaimed :

^ Oh, I hope, Monsieur le Comte, that Madame
la Comtesse '

She is well was the short reply, and, waving
away the servants, he hastened upstairs.

This house ! this room ! this furniture ! The fire
burnings as if she had been there to welcome him !

For a moment a whirling sensation came in
his brain, and the past returned so vividly that
the present was blotted out, and he conceived
himself as just waiting for Bethesda to enter.
A fitful smile played around his lips as he turned
towards the door, and a vague, pleased look came
in his eyes. At that moment he was close upon
the borders of insanity.

Then the whirl came again, and when it left
him he was returned to the bitter, despairing
present. With a groan he flung his arm over
the table, and his head fell upon it, the spring of
life apparently broken.

Presently, however, he sprang up. She was
alive ; she could not be dead ; and why was she
so ill ? For love of him 1 She might be dying,
because to give him up was synonymous with

giving up life. She lead rated her strength too
hicfh. That fragile form could not bear the
stress of such emotions, and such a sacrifice. It
was too much to ask of a human beings. It was
wrong ! it was wicked ! (He was pacing the
floor now.) Perhaps she had never received his
letter ; probably not. She had been prostrated
before it could reach her, and Mabel had in all
likelihood destroyed it. His beloved would not
know that he was endlessly devoted to her : that
nothing either in heaven or hell could detach him
from her ! And she was d^^ino- for want of this
knowledge. Mabel had done it ; Mabel had held
the knife, and cut the throat of this willing; victim.
Mabel," he said, slowly and aloud, ^ Mabel
shall have her reward.' She had promised to
send him word, to telegraph him, if Bethesda
were ever ill unto death, and had she kept her
promise ? Of course not ! Who could expect
her to keep a promise ? he laughed bitterly,
although she considered the promises made to

her binding in life and in death. There was no
sort of justice in it. There was no justice in
the world ! else why should his heart's whole
treasure lie dying there, and he stand impotent,
delirious, here ?

Something must he done.

He thought no farther then, but bathed his
head, threw open a window, and, seeing his
dense pallor in a mirror he passed, bethought
him of a glass of wine.

He seated himself then, outwardly composed,
but his whole inner beings was a rao^ino; fire. He
struggled to keep it under, as one would the
flames that threatened those one was trying to
rescue. He bent the whole force of his intellect
and energy of his nature to the aim of finding
some means of aiding his dying one, so many
miles away.

Should he go to her ?

He feared it would be useless. Were she still
alive when the interminable journey was over

he would not be admitted to her side. Even
throno-h Marcott he could not reach her. Her
sister or her aunts would be watching; With her
day and night, and Mrs. Trescott had prejudiced
every one against him ; she had said as much in
her letters. Perhaps, too, Bethesda could not
endure the sudden revulsion of seeing; him, and
what could he say ? Only that he was hers for
life and death, to dispose of as she chose, and
she had settled that question already. She
knew, without his assurance, that her ashes
would be obeyed.

If he could not go to her, what then ?

Telegraph ? "Write ^ Through Marcott a
word from him might reach her. What should
that word be ? What could it be, except a
repetition of what she already knew, unless his
conditions should change ? Well, were they
inflexible 1 A divorce was impossible ; the
church had taken care of that. Besides, he
shrank from such a thing with an unconquerable

repugnance. So, lie knew, would Betliesda.
Then, there was nothing he could do ?

A thought, a wild, romantic thought I To
go to America, to take Marcott's place ! To see
her, to wait upon her ; sometime, perhaps, to
slip a little word into her ear of encouraging
devotion 1

The possibility glittered before him like an
enchantment. Who could tell what his mere
presence might do for her 1 He would take
such exquisite care of her, and he could act his
part so well ! He pored over this suggestion,
amplified it into the minutest details, imagined
his actions, his self-control, his foiling discovery,
until he was almost resolved upon immediately
undertaking it. Then suddenly came the question
: ' Would she like it ? ' and his fairy structure
fell into abject demolition.

For she would not. As soon as the first
surprise and joy were past, her conscience, of
whose strength he had some knowledge now.

would disapprove, and lie would be adding to
lier trials instead of decreasing them. She would
send him away, whatever it cost her, and tell
him to return to Louise.

Louise — he had not thought of her. But she
was to be considered ; yes, decidedly to be considered.
They had commenced a new life; the
future, with patience, promised more than the
past had ever done, and this was through his
saint's ministrations. Louise must not be disregarded,
nor Bethesda's commands to actively
help her.

As he reached this conclusion, which surrendered
him to a sense of his incapacity and
weariness, a servant knocked, and said a gentleman
waited below who had already called twice,
while monsieur the count was absent.

His name '? '

The gentleman declined to give a name, but
beofo^ed to assure monsieur the count that it was
most important they should meet. Eene was

about to dismiss the man impatiently when the
thought suggested itself: If he should come
from Bethesda *?

^ Tell him he may enter were his immediate
words.

He went into the next room and removed
the traces of his journey hastily. When he
returned to the salon, there, bending over a
book, was a man he had good cause to know.
A messenger from Bethesda indeed ! It was the
lover of Louise.

His guest turned and saw him as the scorn of
this thought flashed across his features.

Monsieur ! ' exclaimed the young officer
hastily, while his face suffused with a most unmilitary
blush, ^ believe you see in me only one
who desires to render you a service in token of
his gratitude.'

^ You owe me nothing,' said M. d'Isten coldly.

Pardon ; I owe you what a soldier values
more than his life — his reputation.'

A fine smile just touched M. chasten's lip,
but —

To what am I indebted for this visit, sir ? '
was all he said.

To an earnest desire to serve you replied
the soldier eagerly. ' I have a piece of information
which I am convinced you will value. It
should be for you alone.' He glanced as he
spoke at the open door through which M. dTsten
had entered.

We are alone. I cannot imagine what you
would say, but be seated said Eene, with careless
politeness. ' I have an engagement shortly ;
until then I listen.'

The young officer bit his lip. This was
haughty treatment ; presently he should have
the pleasure of seeing it change.

If your time is brief, monsieur, pray allow
me to put aside ceremony.' M. dTsten bowed.
You were married in the chapel of the Chateau
despisers.'

^ I believe you were a Avitness/ returned M.
d'Isten, with a touch of ironical disdain. It
caused a hot flush to sting his companion's face,
under the impulse of which he exclaimed
abruptly :

I witnessed, perhaps, a ceremony, but no
marriage

Kene looked up and down the stalwart
form before him. Was the man mad ? Or —
could it be that a private marriage had taken
place between Louise and this man before the
ceremony ' as he called it ? Impossible. Louise,
would long since have flown to her lover had
this been true. And yet — her words, that she
could free herself and him.

He looked up sharply.

Explain yourself,' he said.

It has been a strange thing to me, monsieur,'
began the officer, now more at ease, ' that during
these many years of what you thought marriage,
you have never discovered that the ceremony

was illegal, and that you are not the liusbancl of
Louise Manners.'

Be careful, sir ! Eemember that the honour
of the lady you mention has been long in my
keeping, and I may add — to you — that I have
kept it well. "What proofs can you bring of this
curious assertion ? How have you convinced
yourself that my marriage was illegal V

By acquaintance with the simple facts that
the father of your supposed bride was a Spaniard,
which made his daughter a Spaniard, and that
you are a Frenchman. Facts equally well knoT\TL
to you, undoubtedly, but what has strangely
escaped you is that for a Frenchman to marry a
foreigner, on foreign soil, is illegal, and the union
is void according* to law.'

A pause. What a revelation for Bene ! What
a possibility ! It staggered him for a moment,
then :

These are assertions only, sir ; what are your
proofs V

The officer rose and took from the table a
bulky volume he had brought. It was marked
at a certain page, and he handed it to M. d'Isten
in silence.

Eene read. It was true. This was a volume
of the Code, and here it was in formal language
the incantation which broke his fetters to
Louise and left him free.

The shock stunned him. The miraculous overthrow
of accustomed conditions, the possibilities
flashing like lightning about him, the incredulity
of surprise confounded by proof, all combined
to blur his mind. He could not tell if it were
pain or pleasure he felt ; he was sure it was confusion.


He had enough presence of mind to keep his
face under control, so that even the curious eyes
before him could read little of what passed within;
but now he rose and walked to the window, and
stood there a few moments.

Louise not his wife ? What was she, then ?

What was tie ? Bethesda's spirit asked ; he, who
had prided himself on his untarnished life. They
could both be retrieved by an instant marriage
now ; but — to marry her whom he had so long
felt a burden, from whom, hardly an hour ago,
he was longing to be free that he might give himself
wholly to Bethesda, and now to make use of
his new conditions only to put himself back into
those old ones, and, in so doing, to deny Bethesda,
perhaps to kill her ?

But this was no time for such questions.
What was he going to say to that young man
there ? Hum ; he would test him.

He turned and walked slowly back to the
table. The officer was watching him with an
assumption of deference, under which some
triumph lurked. Rene d'Isten met his eyes with
the most probing of glances.

Since when have you known this, monsieur V

Not long. Monsieur le Comte ; only since you

brought Mademoiselle Manners '

VOL. in. M

Call her by the name she has so long worn,
if you please interrupted Eene haughtily.

Since you and your wife, then, monsieur,
came to Paris. If I had known before that, I
fear I should have given you trouble.' He smiled
in a manner Rene at once pronounced odious.

What was your object in telling me this V he
asked sternly.

As I have had the honour to inform you, I
wished to pay off somewhat of the debt of obligation
you have laid upon me. It is a debt of
honour, sir.'

And you thought you would be doing me a
favours a fine scorn in the word, ' to tdl me that
what I have regarded as a sacred obligation for
years is not of a feather's value V

I had reason to believe, monsieur, that the
knowledge of your freedom would not be unwelcome
to you.'

You dared to think '

Pardon, monsieur,' interrupted the officer

hardily : ' your ceaseless watching of me has not
been entirely unreciprocated. I knew you had
met a lady whom '

Beware of touching such a subject even in
your thoughts !' interrupted M. d'Isten sternly.
This matter is a most distasteful one ; let us
finish it. Be so kind as to answer me a question.
Are you aware if my — if Louise knows this law ? '

She has never known of it from me, monsieur,
nor has she given me any occasion to
suspect that she knew it.'

Thanks. We need not deny that we are both
familiar with the fact that you loved her, and
that, had you been able, you would have snatched
her away at any time '

Before last March ; not since,' interposed his
companion, with a ho\\\ ' I was too deeply in
your debt.'

Very well,' with an impatient gesture ; ' before
last March, then. Now I ask you, as man
to man, did you, knowing she was free, seek her

honourably ? Would you, if you had the opportunity,
marry her tomorrow V

He turned his penetrating glance full upon his
interlocutor, and under its blaze the man's bold eyes
fell. He could not, without a sense of shame, speak
here what had seemed to him a matter of course
elsewhere. But the remembrance of this reassured
him. He recovered himself, and gave a short laugh,
which caused his answer to be almost unneeded.

Really, monsieur, your offer sounds magnanimous,
but I am hardly prepared to sacrifice my
honour to marry an unwedded wife.'

Then Eene d'Isten drew himself up, and looked
every inch the aristocrat.

I understand. You would woo her to dishonour,
dishonouring yourself no less ; you were
ardent in that, because the world would not point
its finger at you, and cry : Shame ! But now —
let me finish, if you please, sir — now, when the
opportunity is offered you to say if you would
shelter under your name the woman you pretend

to love, you become finical and dainty. I am
o^lad to know T\diat your love is worth : I have
wasted much good sympathy upon you. But I
should not have looked for anything different.
It is like you, brave soldier that you are !'

Monsieur ! '

'Your precious "honour"! saved once, because
my wife desired it. It was not worth it.
Allow me to bid you good evening.'

I shall have the pleasure, then, at last, of
sending you my second. I brook no insults, sir.'

Spare yourself the trouble. I shall receive
no second. I do not fight — certainly not with
one who has proved himself base. Adieu.'

The officer strode up close to the haughty
count, and looked in his face insolently. In one
hand was his orlove. He was about to raise it
when a better thought struck him, a finer insult.

Which shall you marry V he sneered, and
with a coarse lauo'h he turned on his heel and
left the room.

Break, break this bitter silence ! speak unto me once again !
Tell me, shall I ere behold thee 1 tell me, do I wait in vain ?
It is well for us to suffer, it is well for us to wait,
Well to swing, like little children, all our life on death's loose
gate.' J. Miller Hangman.

Exactly at eleven the next morning M. d' 1st en
presented himself at Miss Conover's door. She
had been prepared by her mother to find him
much changed, but his appearance shocked her.
She wondered why he should look so ill. She
held a letter in her hand, and, after the . first
grave courtesies were exchanged, she gave it to
him, turning away while he read it, with an
instinctive consideration.

He went over it again and again, until he
knew it by heart ; not for that end, but because

it was SO hopeless. Bethesda was day and night
either insensible or in excruciating pain, wrote
Mrs. Trescott. His Esda ! his fragile love !
Did he go to her now it would only be to find
her beyond the reach of sorrow or consolation.

At last Miss Conover, vaguely alarmed, went
forward and spoke his name. He turned, and
she put out her hand impulsively :

Ah, it is a sorrow to you also, monsieur.'

He could not reply, but bent over her hand
in silence. Presently, however, the sympathy
of a common grief somewhat loosened the tense
cords around his heart, and she could catch a
glimpse of the reverential tenderness with which
he regarded Bethesda, and which, for the time
being, caused him to forget all else.

Evra did not think to be indignant. The
perception of the agony it must be to this man
not to have a shred of communication at such a
time forced itself in upon her, and she was compassionate
towards him. Her Lily had thought

him worthy of her friendship, and she would be
his friend now.

After this M. d'Isten visited Miss Conover
frequently, each day looking more worn and
haggard, for the news from America continued
to be of the worst, — that is, when there was any
news. The long suspense between the scraps
Mabel and Marcott wrote was the hardest of all
to bear. The two yearning friends came even
to look upon the hour when they should hear of
Bethesda's death as one of relief, for then she
would no longer be suffering these agonies, too
painful to be imagined, and they would be out
of the clutches of a despairing hope.

A gnawing indecision also wore upon Eene.
He had been to a lawyer, and convinced himself
beyond any further doubt that he was free.
But free to do what ? He was surprised at himself
that the matter was so difficult of solution.
A year before he would have thought this release
a God-sent justice, and accepted it as such.

Now he could not help but think of Louise's
cruel position, and her claims paramount almost
to his OT^Ti. Conscience, once awakened by
contact with Bethesda's, could not again be
lulled to sleep. He found himself in the terrible
situation of divided forces. To which did he
owe himself ? To her who held his heart, or to
her whom he had called wife ? Was body more
than soul ? Did the fact of his having been the
husband of Louise condemn him to marry her
now ? Did he not rather owe it to Bethesda
that his new-found freedom should be laid at her
feet '? But then perhaps already she was beyond
any joy he could give her, beyond hope, beyond
could she be beyond love ?

Her illness served Bethesda well with Eene,
and also with Guinevere, whose jealous nature
had at times been aroused by the sight of
anguish greater even than her own. But she
could never censure Bethesda. This distant
martyr, who might at any instant become —

might already have become-^a soul in heaven, it
was impossible to associate with angry, or
jealous, or sensuous thoughts. This body,
mangled in the conflict, although so dear to
each, was seen to be as nothing to the strength
of that ardent spirit which soared above it and
them. They heard of her patience and fortitude,
her unselfishness and spirituality, and they felt
that she was a being bound so slightly to earth
that the touch of a rough or unworthy thought
might break the chrysalis, and leave her to soar
white-winged to God.

They were both Catholics, and many times
they might have been seen, if not at the same
church, at the same hour praying for her whose
body might be alive or dead. For Eene had
found that there was something more powerful
to pray to than Esda. His saint was enough for
him, but, when she needed intercession, whom
was there to go to but God ?

And when he left the holy shadow of the

church he would go home to write to Louise
kindly, solicitously : showing an unusual tenderness
as of one about to go away for ever. He
left the matter in God's hands. If his prayers
were answered, and Bethesda recovered, he
would go to her and leave Louise. Spirit was
stronger than matter, soul more divine than
body, love the truest law. So, whatever it cost
Louise, Bethesda should not miss her rights.
She had never done anything to cause her to
miss them. Louise had ; and yet he never
felt so forgiving; and lenient to Louise as
when he was caressing the idea of Bethesda's
recovery.

What made his thoughts especially gentle
with her who had been his wife was the fact
that, through one whom he had trusted for many
years, he learned that the doughty officer, who had
so eagerly sought to pay off ' a debt of gratitude,'

had returned to M , and tried to meet Louise

where he could speak to her alone. Failing in

that, as Eene had long since taken care he should
fail, he sent her a letter saying that a word from
him could free her from bonds she had long endured,
and that could he gain an interview with
her for only one moment, this word should bespoken,
and her heart assured that his devotion
was as unceasing as it had been patient.

Louise had received this letter through some
clever intrigue which had prevented the trusty
friend from securing it en route, but it had done
little harm, for it had not been opened. It was
returned by Louise herself to its writer, whom
it was allowed to reach, and who had almost immediately
left the place.

My poor, dear Louise ! ' said Eene to himself,
as he folded the letter containing this news. He
felt very tenderly towards her as one does towards
a child who has been naughty and unmanageable,
but who is receiving hard punishment.
Poor child ! it would go hard with her. And
this fellow was a dastard.

This news only made him more eager for
decisive word from America. Such upheaval and
suspense were peculiarly unendurable to him. He
was unable to adjust himself to anything, without
the likelihood of being; thro"\\Ti ofi" his balance
at the next instant. He was the plaything of
fate, the buffet of chance. But this fate and
chance would have a divine hand to impel them,
and he would abide its decision. If Bethesda
died, hope was for ever shut to him. He could
sacrifice himself in a perpetual suttee and find it
sweet, because she would approve. Louise
should know what this ' word of freedom ' was,
and choose him or reject him with open-eyed
knowledge. But he could do nothing till he

o o

heard from Bethesda. His whole soul came
back to this centre of longing;. Let her recover,
and then — happiness !

One day towards the end of March, however,
Guinevere received word that the end could be
only a few hours delayed. Beth even then was

lying in a swoon, which had lasted for hours, and
from which, the physicians said, she would awake
only to a few moments' consciousness before she
died. They were willing she should go ; the persecuted
child would be safer there, wrote Mabel.
No love, not the most devoted, could shield so
tender a soul in this wicked world. Since there
were demons here who delighted in inflicting
torture on the best, her friends could only be
glad of her release.

The paper fluttered from Guinevere's fingers
and fell to the floor. She had not understood
the last phrases : she had only felt that there
was no longer suspense nor hope.

As she knelt before the crucifix hanging by
her bed, a knock came at the door. Was it
the final tidings ?

Monsieur le Comte d'Isten craves to see
mademoiselle,' said the maid.

Give him this, and say I cannot see him,'
said Guinevere, thrusting Mrs. Trescott's letter

into the girl's hand, and enclosing herself again
with her solitary grief.

Mademoiselle is in despair, monsieur,' said
the maid presently in the next room ; ' she sends
you this, and says she is too ill to see you.
She '

M. d'Isten had not heard her. He snatched
the meaning from the blotted page before him,
and when he realised what it meant, the maid
shrank away from before his face and closed the
door stealthily.

The insuperable loss came upon him with a
fierceness which quite obliterated his reason. He
laid all the blame on Mabel, and the desire for
vengeance comines from his mother's race made
him reckless then. His was the wrath which does
not explode but kills. An explosion may injure
many, but the bullet flies surer to the one heart.

A few hours later he returned — he had rushed
out of the house — T\ith a new resolution in his
face. He insisted on seeing Miss Conover ;

bribed the maid conclusively, and gave her such
an adroit message to deliver that the artist's
seclusion was ended ; and she hastened into the
drawing-room, her hair dishevelled, and her
cheeks all tear-stained and wan.

What is it, what is it ? ' she cried.

I am convinced Bethesda is better. Send a
telegram to her sister and see. She will answer
it ; I know she will.'

There is no use ; my darling is dead ! '
moaned disappointed Guinevere.

She is not. Trust me. Miss Conover. Only
telegraph, and you will see that I am right.
Miss Margaret Hamilton will answer you ; she
might not me. I beseech you, try.'

As you like, but it will only be to hear of
her death.'

Consent was all M. d'Isten wished. Action
was always a relief to him, and to whom is not
hope a tonic ? He spoke a few helpful words,
borne up by an unreasoned feeling which would

CHAP. X.] BETHESDA. 177

not acknowledge fear, and left Guinevere roused
to hope also. He haunted the office until the
reply came, late at night.

She lives. We have hope.'

The blackness was passed. Such a dark
period could not come again ; it would always
be illumined by the reflection of this relief.

Miss Conover gave him both hands as she saw
his face and heard the good words which verified
his hope.

My sweet, living Lily ! ' thought Evra, when
M. d'Isten left, a great change in his face and
carriage and voice, ' we both love you, but I will
support and comfort you. He cannot, and I can.
1 am a woman and so you will not fear me.'

And Eene, walking under the starry spring
skies, thinking of a year before, and the resurrection
promised to-night, made a vow that he would
win Bethesda to the resurrection of love as of life,
without allowing her happiness to be flawed by
the knowledge that it caused any one pain.

VOL. III. N

'Ask God for truth and He will give the divine in answer.'

Peace comes, not by having naught to suffer, but by surmounting
suffering.

Eighteen montis passed. Bethesda Hamilton
had very slowly recovered from the terrible illness
which had almost released her soul. What
turned the trembling balance was a perception
of her cowardice in wishing, as she had done at
first, to die. Should she be so selfish as to extinguish
the light her fiery sufferings might be
to some other erring souls ? She must live to
make her pains and her gains a beacon ofi" the
rocks of dishonour and to the haven of morality.
Her first thought now became in each new
trial : How can I make this serve others '? She
constantly sought truth, no longer for herself

CHAP. XI.] BETHESDA. 179

alone ; but a patient endurance, an active resignation,
an offering of all her joys and sorrows
to the service of her fellow-men, brought their
own sublime reward. It was worth the whole
of her illness in its hope alone ; it was the gladness
of the birth of things immortal : for in her
soul was that grandest of all conceptions, the
belief in a loving personal God.

The great preaching of her soul after truth
and rectitude had been but the dawn which
heralds the approach of day, and presently she
looked forward with an almost ecstatic vision to
the time when the world should be purified of
its sins, and the Christian religion be comprehended
in reverence, as well as felt by faith,
until no side of its divine beauty would be dim,
but all believed with that assurance which is
beyond faith, because it knows.

Naturally, for she was still a weak woman,
there were desolate hours when the uplifting-pinions
of aspiration and hope drooped helpless

~ \

at her sides, their snowy plumage hardly withheld
from the dust ; when her passionate nature
cried out for her lover and would not be stilled.
She remembered, and memory's very sweetness
was well-nigh unendurable bitter. For there are
many broken threads which seem but a hairsbreadth
apart, yet the chasm which separates
them is deep as death, and wide as eternity.

But the strong instinct of Bethesda's nature
towards right as of a plant towards light, always
won the victory, and she recognised how only
the oblivion of ourselves in a higher life than
our own makes us strong and serene ; only advancing
over the bridge which leads from passion
to renunciation will take us from the malarious
districts of individual life to the invigorating
regions of universality.

She was aided in this by living constantly
under the combined influences of Mrs. Stanhope
and Margaret. Mabel, soon after Bethesda's
recovery, had married ; not loving nor professing

to love, but glad to be ' surely first to sore
one,' as she said, and feeling that she could
make her husband happier than he would be
without her.

He was in every particular her counterpart.
He was a self-poised and strong man, and upon
first meeting attracted Bethesda's confidence.
She saw that, with time, his consistent force
and intrepid devotion might subdue Mabel's
impetuous inconsistencies, and give the ecjuipose
which she so much needed both for development
and happiness. His love for Mabel, if not
wholly wise, was neither a blind infatuation.
He had weighed his chances with a not unsteady
hand, and had thrown his whole fortune on the
hope of T\TLnning her absolutely some day. He
had seen that to do this irrevocability was essential.
The inevitable, which she had never dared
to face, should be her possessor, and hold her
for once firm to a purpose — his purpose, if not
hers. When there was once a solidarity of

interests declared between them, her lifelong
instincts would play into his hands.

So they had married and gone to their new
home in California, ' so far west that it is almost
east said Mabel ; but there were only a few
swift months for Mr. Eeming to use in accomplishing
his hoped-for end, when Mabel, in
giving birth to a girl-baby, died. Bethesda was
there and supported her aunt to the last, and it
was to her Mrs. Eeming left her child. The
father was quite willing to carry out the mother's
request, for he almost hated the infant which
had stolen his precious wife's life. He had,
indeed, at once gone away on a long trip, sailing
direct to China, whence there was little prospect
as yet of his returning.

The Misses Hamilton, meantime, with their
new charge, had decided to take the house and
grounds adjoining the Stanhopess', and towards
the end of the second October they were settled
in their own establishment, with Aunt Agatha

at hand to call upon, and the lives of all flowing
in that sympathetic unison which forms the
sweetness of life.

To Bethesda, such an experience as her present
one of quiet domesticity was peculiarly
restful. The longer she lived in the natural
conditions of life, the more shuddering did she
look back on the unsheltered past and rejoice
that it was over. When she had first recovered
from her illness she had thought there must bean
impenetrable strangeness which would separate
her, like a nun's veil, from the society in
which she moved ; but the foolish notion vanished
under the clear rays of common-sense and
contact with the world in its usual phases which
Mrs. Stanhope had exerted herself to bring
around her nieces.

Bethesda soon found that her charms were
here neither sought by artists to copy, nor the
cause of despair to mad lovers. A certain equipoise
of character, which increased daily under

the healthy regime of her moral surroundings,
and interest rather in thought than persons,
sufficed to keep on the boundaries of pleasant
acquaintance the men who were attracted to her.
Moreover, there was a sense of completion about
her which robbed her of the charm a fancy-free
maidenhood alone possesses. Men found her
interested by larger questions than mere personal
ones, and the magnetism which formerly drew to
love, now drew to intellectual attainment.

She thought much, and had never had such
opportunities to bring out the best in her as
during the winter, when the philosophic and
literary conversations which made Mrs. Stanhope's
parlour an old time salon, stimulated her
to activity, while giving her the guidance of
noble minds. She would listen and glow with
the exercise of her highest faculties now, as she
had used to do in beholding fine scenery, and
felt her insignificance beside these towering
intellects, as she had beside the Pyramids.

D

At present objective life was all her study,
for her personal strength and attention were
required for the baby and Margaret, whose health
had been strained by the long nursing, and who
clung to her sister with that close pressure which
best staunchest a wound. And Bethesda felt that
no looking back with sorrow, nor forward misapprehension
must sap the health which was
dedicated to the serving of others.

Her manner of regarding the past was thus
significantly altered. She had heard nothing
from Eene since the telegram whose contents had
been communicated to her when it was thought
that she would die. The words had often reassured
her. Eene and Louise might even at
this moment be living together in Paris, realising
that ' he only earns his Kfe who daily conquers
it anew.' This was her most hopeful thought.
Of Eene's letter and Madame dTsten's she knew
nothing. They had been received by Mabel and
disposed of as she saw fit. Bethesda often

wondered if Louise were angry, but patiently
bore the lack of knowledge, feeling that all she
could do had been done. She understood that she
must recognise clearly Eene's errors and her own,
and reach upwards to touch him only as she
embraced all, he being farthest of all. She was
sure that God would take care of Eene as of herself
with perfect tenderness, upholding them if
they did right, leading them to repentance if
they did wrong, which was not a lesser reliance.
She did not wish herself or others to escape any
suffering it were better they should have. Had
she felt God would extend a mercy to her to
cover instead of eradicating her sins, she would
not have trusted him as she did. Meantime
she knew that, if she gave her life into his
hands, he would convert all her evil into
good, by the divine alchemy of his regenerative
power.

In the latter part of October Mr. Stanhope
returned from a trip to New York, and mentioned

incidentally having met a gentleman who
seemed to know Bethesda.

He is the new French Secretary of Legation
in Washington, I understand. It may be he has
only heard your name in connection nth your
writing, — those stories of yours have made some
sensation, my dear, — but I formed an opinion
that he had met you personally.'

Who was he ? ' asked Bethesda steadily,
though her heart answered before him.

His name was d'Isten. I have his card somewhere.
He had a title of some kind ; it seems
to me they said marquis. Do you know him V

Aunt Mabel and I met him abroad,' replied
Bethesda calmly. ' Was his wife with him ? '

His wife ? No, I did not know he had one.
That is natural enough, however,' he went on
after a momentary pause. * A man does not say
much of private affairs to a stranger. I did not
mention that you were any connection of mine,
only that I had heard of you. He seemed

interested in what I did say. He admires your
writings, and, if I am not mistaken, said he had
translated one of the stories into their French
Magazine — what do you call it ? '

Revue des Deux Montes

Yes. He seemed to have literary tastes, and
had a number of anecdotes to tell about literary
persons. He was quite entertaining, but too
foreign to suit me. I don't see how you and
Mabel managed to live so long over there.'

The new secretary of legation was soon forgotten.
Even Bethesda succeeded in silencing, for
the time, the importunate voice within her which
she had not fancied could clamour so loudly
for itself alone after months of victorious subjection.


For it had been many months, many years it
seemed to her as she lay awake that night, since
that Christmas when her decision to deny herself
and Eene all, had been made. It was more than
two years since they had met, and once more

they were on the same side of the Atlantic.
"What did this mean '? A hundred perturbing
possibilities suggested themselves as unfolding
of the present. Deeds draw an endless chain of
consequences ; what was the next link which
would come to her ?

Finally Bethesda put the thoughts all aside
as the dawn came creeping in. She remembered
what Mrs. Stanhope had said to her once :

The course of events cannot be disturbed,
nor evaded. Do as near right as you can, and
leave the rest to God.'

She sent for Marcott the next day, and asked
him to give her back the paper Tvdth which she
had entrusted him before she was ill.

It is impossible for me to do so at once,
madame,' he replied, ' I left it with a banker in
New York.'

Why so ? When was that ? '

Before madame your aunt was married,
madame. Perhaps Madame Eeming communicated

to my mistress a rebuke she gave me ?
She wished to discharge me.'

I have heard of it.' There had indeed been
a stiff battle between Mabel and Agatha on this
subject, but Agatha had won.

My mistress will understand that then the
surest way of fulfilling her wishes was to put the
paper out of my hands.'

Very well. I have no doubt you did it for
the best. Send for it now, however, and give it
to me immediately.'

My mistress has not lost confidence in me V
ventured Marcott humbly.

Not in the least. You have been devoted
to me and my interests. Those papers were only
given you to deliver in case of my speedy death.
I now wish to have them again myself.'

As my mistress desires,' said Marcott obediently,
but he lingered.

^ Have you anything to say to me V asked
Miss Hamilton presently.

If my mistress would permit, — it may be of
service to my mistress to know that the person
whose name was on her letter is in America.'

Very well. You have done your duty in
telling me, and now I wish you to consider it
your duty not to mention him again. That is
all I shall want of you now.'

It was a week after she had received and
destroyed the sealed paper she had requested,
and which contained all Eene's letters to her, as
well as one from her to him, none of which, she
was sure, had been tampered with, that there
came a call at the telephone from Mr. Stanhope.

Mrs. Stanhope was away, and Uncle Ealeigh
on such occasions took his meals with his nieces,
feeling perfectly at home there. Now he asked,
with customary formality, if he could bring up a
friend to dine? The answer was: 'Certainly
but in a few moments another call was made,
and Bethesda asked for.

It is the gentleman I told you of meetings in

New York. He lias excellent letters from
Washington, and I would like to offer him some
hospitality. Do you object in any way to his
coming to your house ? '

Bethesda felt all the blood leave the surface of
her body, and crowd to her heart For an instant
she could not speak or move. It had, in spite of
all, taken her completely by surprise. She had
not imagined him as making so bold a stroke.

Please postpone the invitation,' she contrived
at last to say.

Very well,' replied Mr. Stanhope, and closed
the current.

Bethesda went into the study, and sat down
at her desk and let her head fall on her hands.
What was she to do ? What could she say that
would not be unjust, and yet would keep
them separated ? For this had become the one
urgent aim, excluding all others. She could not
see him unless she knew more, it was her duty
not to meet him ; and, moreover, she could not.

Then she felt Margaret's arms around her, the

visible presence of tender sympathy.

Margaret she said abruptly, for she had no
secrets from her sister, * Monsieur d'Isten is in
the city. He has letters of introduction to uncle,
and was to have come here to dine to-nio'ht. I
asked uncle to postpone it, so as to give me at
least time to think. Now, what am I to do V

Uncle will trust you T^^thout a word of
question. You have only to say you do not
wish to meet M. d'Isten.'

But the question is. What does it mean ?
He comes here without his wife ; he has excellent
letters of introduction to uncle, and what
does it mean ? What, rather, can I do to keep
him away V

You must keep him away by some means,
that is sure, but I don't think an^i:hino'"more
than an expression of your desire not to meet
him will be necessary. Aunt Agatha will be
home tomorrow, and then she can entertain

VOL. III. O

him, and uncle will take delicate care of you ; he
would respect your least wish.'

True, and how good it is to be protected, to
be sheltered! I understand better now that I
have spoken to you. It startled me so at first,
I could hardly think.'

Mr. Stanhope did not mention M. d'Isten's
name until Bethesda first inquired about him,
which was after Marcott had placed the dessert
upon the table. She was looking peculiarly
lovely to-night, thought her uncle, although a
little tired ; but her voice was quite natural as
she mentioned his message.

'By whom was M. d'Isten introduced?' she
asked.

By Mr. , an old friend of mine in the

cabinet. He writes in the highest terms of this
Frenchman, whom, it seems, he knew in Parison
some diplomatic business. Here is the letter.
Read it after dinner. He says any attentions
given to him would be considered as a personal

favour. M. d'lsten lias made a powerful friend
there.'

Has he, indeed?' exclaimed Margaret, with
frank curiosity. ' Who then is this remarkable
man ? Is he vouno* or old 1 Married or sinoie ?
Have you seen him here ?'

Mr. Stanhope glanced at Bethesda in some
surprise ; she had not told her sister then ? He
answered readily, however :

He brought me the letter and stayed sometime
in my office. He is well-bred and intelligent,
but a reserved man, 1 should say. He
seems desirous to please. If he is married he
did not say so ; I should have liked him better
if he had. I should have preferred, too, his
mentioning Bethesda, since he met her abroad,
and probably learned in Washington that I washer
uncle. I like a man who isn't afraid to claim
acquaintance vdtk anybody. However, with
such a letter I should like to pay him some
attention.'

He looked at Bethesda keenly. She said
nothing for a moment, then lifted inscrutably
candid eyes to his face, and replied in a low,
steady voice :

Uncle, you know Aunt Mabel and I became
acquainted with Monsieur d'Isten abroad. We
liked him very much for a time, then there
came up a — a misunderstanding, I will call it,
and the acquaintance was entirely broken off.
Aunt Mabel never forgave him, and, although I
think she was unjust to him, I am not sufficiently
well satisfied with his actions, or our
own, to wish to meet him — now. You might
tell him that you would be glad to invite him
here, but I had asked you not to do so. Yes,
this would be best, I think it would make him
clearly understand, and would avert our meeting
in the future.'

There was an uncontrollable sadness in her
voice now which stirred both her listeners. Mr.
Stanhope filled her glass with wine, and his

hand trembled in so doing. To cover it he
said quickly :

Just as you choose. There is no need forme
to mention you at all, if you prefer.'

Yes, you had better say I requested this of
you, unless it would be awkward for you V

Oh no ; if you think it best, I can easily
manage it. I told him when your message came
that I was obliged to delay the dinner, and that
I would call at his hotel in the morning. I can
give him your message then, although not in the
form of one of course, and, at the same time, tell
him I expect my wife home at noon, and ask
him to dine with us the next day. That will be
all right. You need not worry at all.'

It was a quiet but hard evening to Bethesda.
Neighbours came in, and they sat talking in the
library Adhere Bethesda herself had closed the
lower shutters which Marcott, for one reason or
another, had left open.

As they went away, quite late, Bethesda stood

a few moments in the balmy, Indian-summer air,
looking up at the stars which had so often seemed
to watch her destiny. So, he was a marquis.
Well, his father had been an old man two years
before, but it must have been a deep grief to
the son. He loved his father. And his wife ?
Those were the two ties which held him bound
to Europe, he had once told her, and now he

was here

A man's figure stirred under the trees opposite.
She turned hastily and went in.

Our life is lent
From first to last, the whole, for this experiment,
Of proving what I say, — that we ourselves are true I '

Robert Browning.

That same evening; Marcott stood before his
former master, betokening by profuse salutations
this pleasure at again being able to speak with one
whom he had loved from boyhood.

Has your mistress mentioned me in your
hearing?' were Eene dTsten's first words when
the delighted o-reetincrs had been received, and
very pleasantly too.

It is just now that she called me and gave
me a warning, monsieur le marquis,' replied Mar-cot.
' She commanded me to carry no word, or
letter, or message whatever from you to her.

monsieur ; she said that if I did so that moment
would be my last in her service. Pardon me,
monsieur le marquis, but you desire me to repeat
her words V

Certainly ; and you think she meant them V
She never uses such words idly, monsieur.'
Very likely not.' He sat and thought a few
moments in silence. Did this indicate disapproval
? Or was it fear of herself as well as of
him ? In any case he could not but admire the
position she took, knowing no more than she
did.

Sit down,' he said presently to the man waiting
before him. ' Tell me all I should wish to
know.'

Thereupon ensued a tale which Bethesda would
have been astounded to hear. Not that it was
untrue; quite the contrary. So accurate had
been the man's perceptions of all that came
within his scope of mind, so acute his surmises,
and so excellent his memory, that she would have

felt her life unveiled of at least all its outer
coverings before Eene d'Isten's keen eyes. Mar-cot
was a kind of genius in his way ; he would
have made his fortune as a detective ; his master
had known and chosen well when he gave him
this position of confidence.

He praised him now, and added a more convertible
reward, and then asked carelessly :

Did she appear to suspect anything about the
letter you left T\ith your so-called banker V

Nothing, monsieur le marquis. She has too
white a soul to suspect'

^ So you are thoroughly devoted to her, eh ?
Well, you are right, Marcott. I wish I could be
in your place.'

She is the kindest of ladies, monsieur ; I
thank you for giving me so good a position.'

And she has no protestants, you say ?'

None, monsieur. There are many who would
gladly be so did she permit it, but there is an air
de reine about her which prevents impertinence.'

Is she too delicate yet to bear a surprise V
Ah, monsieur, she is very frail ! And she
has suffered so much ! No one who did not see
her during that dreadful illness knows what
woman can endure. Be careful of her, I beseech
you, monsieur ! '

Tranquillise yourself, Marcott. She is in no
danger from me.' Then, with a knowledge of the
man's French heart, he gave him the most salient
bits of news from his home and people.

And monsieur your father died ? '

Only a short time since. He had a return
of the old paralysis from his wounds, and was inconstant
danger of death, for which he came to
pray. I was with him from the first. He spoke
of you, Marcott, only the day before he died.
You shall choose your own place on the estate
when you have done what there is to do here, or
if your mistress should dismiss you. I know I
can trust you, but be discreet; don't run any
risks. If she should question you She

never has, you say ? Well, it may come, and
then be careful what you say. I am here on
diplomatic business, and shall remain indefinitely,
in America, I mean. I came to this city to
make the acquaintance of her uncle. The circumstances
of my life have changed, much
changed. Specify my father's death if she presses
you closely. Don't mention Madame d'Isten. If
she asks for her, say you have heard nothing, but
assure her, with significance, that my circumstances
are altered. Come again tomorrow
evening at this same hour, if possible. I expect
to dine out, and may wish to give you new instructions.
Leave the shutters open every even-nor
; I saw your mistress close them to-nio'ht.
She is taller than she was, and her hair seems
darker. Has she chant-ed much during her illness
? I could not see her face.'

She is more beautiful than ever, monsieur
le marquis. She has the serenity of a saint, —
ah, you should have seen her, monsieur, with

Madame Eeming ! — and her tenderness to that
baby '

'Bien, lien, Marcott. I see plainly that if a
man cannot hope to be a hero to his valet, your
mistress is nothing less than perfect to you !
And I believe you are not far wrong.'

The next day Mrs. Stanhope returned and
found her husband so anxious to do something
at once for this well-introduced stranger that
Aunt Agatha invited a hasty company to meet
him that same evening, trusting to her nieces
to help her in preparations.

For although you do not wish to meet him
there is no reason why he should not come to
my house, is there, Bethesda?' she asked.

None, I think. Aunt Agatha.' Was he not
as innocent as she who had made her home with
Mrs. Stanhope ?

Bethesda was very busy all the afternoon
arranging the fruits and flowers on the table
and in the parlours of her aunt's home. Marcott

brought basket after basket of blossoms from
the greenhouse, and she went from one room to
another with the baby on her arm — the little
May-flower had been ailing the last day or
two — leaving each a bower, hardly conscious of
how much beauty she was causing. Indeed, it
was not until the baby demanded undivided
attention, and she seated herself in a low rocker
to hush it to sleep, that she realised how she
had lavished the wealth of a garden in decorations
to honour the comines of a man she must
never see.

Just as this thought came over her Mrs. Stanhope
entered already dressed, and exclaimed at
the lovely effect of the rooms.

But you must go at once, dear. It is almost
time for them to be coming. Here, nurse, take
the baby, and call Miss Margaret.'

Bethesda had hurried away at the first word,
like a startled fawn, but stood in the western
porch a moment waiting for her sister. Her

white dress was caught up over one arm, and a
red silk shawl was thrown around her shoulders ;
her hair was low in her neck, and her eyes,
shadowed by weariness, were dark and brilliant.

Eene d'Isten coming up the pathway a little
early discovered Bethesda standing there, the
reflections of a warm sunset about her, alone.
The implacable distance which had so long
separated them seemed but a step to be trod
in triumph before he should hold her to his
heart.

Then Margaret joined her, and the two sped
across the lawn, Eene's thirsty eyes following
them. He dared not pursue ; it would be only
self-defeat.

He went up the steps and was immediately
ushered into the garden Bethesda had made.
He knew she had. He could feel the touches
of her light fingers on every leaf and stem.
There was her portrait, too, in the library. He
had last seen it when

The Marquis d'Isten, I believe V said a courteous
voice near him, and turning he saw his
hostess. ' I am Mrs. Stanhope. I am sorry
Mr. Stanhope is not here to welcome you. He
was detained, but will be do^Ti immediately.'

It is my fault, madame. My coming was
hastened too much, I perceive, by my great
desire to meet you. I was just renewing my
acquaintance with this beautiful portrait of
one who has often spoken to me of Madame
Stanhope. I trust Mademoiselle Hamilton is
well?'

Thanks, quite well. Be seated, pray. Have
you been long in America V

Several weeks, madame. It has cost me
much to be so long in a land where I flattered
myself I might find friends and not seek
them, but I was obliged to identify myself
with my position before I could take this great
pleasure. It grieves me deeply to learn that
I may now never meet one who honoured me

with her friendship, Madame Trescott, as I knew
her.'

Did I understand you to say you were my
sister's friend V inquired Mrs. Stanhope in a
tone Kene thought icy.

Indeed, madame, she never had one more
devoted ! Unhappily a misunderstanding arose,
which I the more profoundly regret, as I find
Miss Hamilton considers it her duty not to

»

allow me the pleasure of seeing her, to which I
had looked forward with eagerness. I assure
you, madame, that no misunderstandings can
ever eradicate from my heart sentiments of the
greatest esteem for both your sister and your
niece.'

He said this with much dignity, and an air
penetrated with regret, but Mrs. Stanhope was
not touched.

You are kind,' she replied gravely. ' If you
please, however, we' will not return to the past.
Our acquaintance dates from to-day. I am

pleased to be able to receive a gentleman so
highly commended by Secretary C .'

]mr. Stanhope bere joined them, and other
guests soon arrived. Eene d' 1st en put aside all
wounded pride and made himself as agreeable
as he knew how to be, which is saying much.
The impression he conveyed was most felicitous.
His appearance was said to be distinguished ;
his manner perfection ; his conversation brilliant
without being obtrusive. His praise of America
was both discriminating; and warm : his knowledge
of our institutions peculiarly accurate.
Every one was charmed with him, even Mr.
Stanhope, except the one he especially wished
to T\'in — ' Aunt Agatha.'

The difference between the masculine and
feminine was well marked here. The quite
easy conjecture Ealeigh Stanhope might have
made as to the cause of Bethesda's withdrawal
from the society of this man did not once occur
to him. To think of Bethesda in connection

VOL. III. p

with anything not crystal-clear and pure would
have seemed to any of her friends an unpardonable
insult. But Mrs. Stanhope, with her more
discerning eyes and intuitive perceptions, had
discovered, not alone in Bethesda's case, that
the fault from which we consider others most
exempt is probably the one they have fought
the hardest. Only through battle can come that
victory which is clothed in white raiment.

M. d'Isten also had been observing and planning
swiftly. As he took his leave he said to his
hostess :

May I have the honour of calling upon you
in the morning ? My time is somewhat limited,
or I would not intrude so soon after this delightful
evening.'

you have given it its success. I shall beat
home, and glad to see you any time tomorrow
after eleven.'

When Margaret went to her room that
evening, after a little chat with Aunt Agatha

to hear of ' this wonderful man,' she found
Bethesda sitting by the little Mary's crib patting
her to sleep. The child had been restless, and
Bethesda could always soothe her best. To Margaret
there was a very pathetic touch in the
simple picture then. The ways of Providence
seemed almost more inscrutable to her than when
she had seen Bethesda in the relentless clutches
of physical agony. There are many losses for
which death seems to compensate.

The next morning M. d' 1st en presented himself
promptly at Mrs. Stanhope's door. He had
told the coachman to drive slowly, and, well back
in the corner, had studied sith the keenest eyes
the adjacent house. On the porch was the little
dot of humanity which he knew to be Mabel's
child. Somebody was sitting in the shadow.
He bent forward eagerly, but only to see the
cap and apron of a nurse. Marcott was in the
garden gathering flowers. As the carriage passed
he glanced up carelessly at the windows of a

room on the second floor. Behind the half-drawn
curtains could be seen a figure with bent
head, the shapely head Eene knew so well. So,
she was writing. He dismissed his carriage at
the gate. He preferred to walk back. Some
opportunity might occur for — what ?

The flowers in the shadowy parlours were
drooping a little, but were still lovely, and down
on them all looked the jasmine face of Esda.
He had not liked the portrait in London ; here
he felt that he would give all he possessed in exchange
for it, unless — —

Again Mrs. Stanhope interrupted his contemplation.
She greeted him with a fine reserve,
which was exceedingly characteristic of the
woman. Perhaps she felt it the more because
there was a gravity in his manner now which
ingratiated him in her favour.

With very little preamble he set before her
the object of his visit. It was not alone one of
courtesy, although he anticipated leaving soon,

as lie had told her ; nor was it solely a desire to
see again the sister of Madame Trescott and aunt
of Miss Hamilton, although he ^\^as sure, he need
not say, this would have brought him far ; but
there was a very serious purpose in his mind to
which he ventured to hope she would listen with
kindness.

You come to me, then, on the understanding
that I am to receive you as the chaperone of my
niece Bethesda ?'

He glanced at her with sudden scrutiny as
she thus ignored her sister, but replied without
delay :

Precisely, madame. Miss Hamilton has
often told me you were just, a quality so rare
that one cannot over appreciate it. I appeal,
madame, to your justice.'

I am willing to listen,' said Mrs. Stanhope,
after a moment's pause.

May I then dare to ask you, madame '

You were to speak, not to question,' returned

Mrs. Stanhope, a smile hovering about her firm
lips.

I understand. Pray understand me also. I
cannot speak as I would unless some one has
spoken before me. Allow me to ask you, then,
if you know of the cause of the alienation between
Madame Trescott and myself?'

I have never been told.'

But you surmise. Bien. I shall be unable
to speak with the distinctness I would have
chosen ; but I trust you will comprehend.'

A silence ensued, during which Mrs. Stanhope
studied him keenly. He was at once dignified
and skilful ; he was a man of undeniably subtle
power. What would he say ?

Madame,' he resumed at last, ' this is a matter
which touches to the fibres of my honour and my
life. To Mr. Stanhope, who kindly gave me an
opportunity for explanation, I could not speak.
He had no suspicion of the truth. I need one who
has, and, moreover, a woman, who can understand.'

I am not sentimental remarked Mrs. Stanhope
drily.

I should have been blind to have supposed
it,' was the quick retort. ' Nor is it to sentimentality
that I wish to appeal ; no — only to
the justice which Miss Hamilton assured me I
should find in you.'

Proceed.'

When I first met your sister it was at a time
when my own life was wrecked. The details are
unnecessary, the fact is sufficient ; to me it was
terrible. I had enjoyed several weeks of delightful
companionship with your sister when a misunderstanding
arose, which was afterwards, in
Italy, explained to her satisfaction. I did not
see Miss Hamilton until Mrs. Trescott had restored
to me her approval, and asked me to come
to the house where they were staying on my
return from Eome. I was charmed to do so, and
there, very gradually, I became acquainted with
Miss Hamilton. Immediately before leaving

Florence I learned that Miss Hamilton wrote.
At this juncture I was guilty of building an air-castle.
I conceived the thought that I might
prevail upon Miss Hamilton to take the efforts of
my pen, which had never been of sufficient value
to encourage me to brave the terrors of the press,
and with her exquisite tact and feminine capacity
work them over into a shape which might be of
use to her and would be glory to me. In Paris
I proposed this scheme ; Miss Hamilton was
gracious enough to accept it ; Mrs. Trescott looked
upon it with vague alarm.'

It should not have been vague said Mrs.
Stanhope decisively.

You are right, madame. It was a dangerous
experiment. I did not see it as such until the end
came, and I was obliged to look back by the lurid
light of suffering on what I had innocently proposed.
That it was done innocently I do not know
how I can persuade you, unless you believe my
simple word. It maybe small to you ; to me it is all.'

There are times when thoughtlessness is a
crime.'

True, madame. It has been punished as such.'

He glanced appealingly. yet T\ith dignity, at
the face of his interlocutor. It was grave and
silent. He resumed with an introverted earnestness
:

The end came as I leave you to imagine. I
know you will do Miss Hamilton no injustice,
and I hope yon will not judge me with undue
severity. The ladies returned to America. The
conflict of customs, probably your wisdom, but
more than aU, I believe, her o^n inalienable
sense of right brought recognition of the errors
of the past. She benefited me as no one else
could have done, but she suffered cruelly for her
benevolence. Can you imagine what it was tome
to hear of her tortures, and know that I — /
had helped to inflict them upon her ? '

Where was your wife ? ' asked Mrs. Stanhope,
with chilling calm.

I wrote to her to come to me. Miss Hamilton
wrote her the same. She was unable to do
so at the time, and I went to her. I told her all
there was to tell. She preferred to still remain
with her mother. I returned to Paris. Through
a friend of Miss Hamilton's, to whom Mrs.
Trescott occasionally wrote, I heard of — of your
niece's hopeless condition. Weeks of excruciating
suspense followed. Just as they ended, by our
hearing that you had hope, news came of my
father's sudden prostration. I hastened to his
side and nursed him through a long illness.
When he died my mind could no longer bear the
strain so long put upon it. I was for weeks in a
condition of which I have no remembrance.
When I recovered '

Madame ! madame 1 ' cried Marcott, entering the
room without ceremony. ' The baby is in a convulsion.
Miss Margaret begs you will come at once.'

Excuse me,' said Mrs. Stanhope, already at
the door, and vanished.

Come to-nig^lit at ten without fail,' said M.
d' 1st en to Marmot. ' No excuses ; you did your
duty.'

Ao-ain ]\IabeL in the form of Iter child, had
interfered ! Had this interview, then, been all
in vain ? Should he never reach Bethesda ? he
asked himself, as he walked slowly past the house
where a sudden commotion prevailed. Bethesda
was there, there ! and he could not see her !

He sent in the afternoon to inquire of the
child's condition at Mrs. Stanhope's. It was
better, but still very ill. She would be unable
to see him for an indefinite period. But patience
is a good palfrey ; she had served his turn before
now ; he would ride her to the end.

He left the city that evening after new instructions
to Marmot. His determination was
only screwed tighter by these obstacles which impeded
his lines of conduct. By some means he
would win Bethesda's side, and thence he never
doubted but that he could touch her heart.

Do what your heart tells you ; yes, Aspasia, do all it tells
you. Remember how august it is : it contains the temple not
only of Love, but of Truth, and a whisper is heard from the
extremity of one to the extremity of the other. . . . May the
beautiful feet of Aspasia stand firm ! ' — Landor.

Several weeks passed without Bethesda's hearing
anything more of Rene d'Isten ; but they
were not very calm ones to her. She was thankful
to have been busy ; that was always a gain.
On the little May Flower's recovery she had
taken to writing in order to clarify her mind.
In communion thus with her ideal could she
always best form practical resolutions.

She knew that this pause was only preparative
to an onslaught which would strive to be
irresistible, and she thought deeply, looking on
every side of the question which had anew come

to her to solve. It was not T\it]ioiit difficulty
that at last she put all away from her except her
own subjective knowledge, and tried to wait in
peace.

One morning in December there came a letter
from Guinevere containing the long-anticipated
announcement that she was to sail immediately
for New York, where she was to replace an
inefficient sinner under the same management
which had engaged her for the London season,
and that she looked forward eagerly to receiving
the one word of praise which would to her excel
all others.

It is so cruelly long since I have seen 3'ou,
dearest,' she wrote. ' My voice has improved, I
know that, but vriW you find hardness and mannerisms
in me ? Oh believe, dear, that there is
always the softest of nests in my heart for you,
where you lie amid the fair roses you resemble.
I know if you have changed it is only to become
more lovely and beloved, and I am afraid of

nothing except that you will be shocked by the
roughness this life has left upon me.

You will come to New York to visit me ?

You know I can't get out to S for an age

after I reach America, and I can wait to see
you. You will manage it ? '

This letter roused and enlivened Bethesda
remarkably. She had grown a little thin and
worn of late, but this good news seemed to quite
restore her spirits. Every one thought the
change would benefit her, and it was decided
that she should visit a friend in New York who
had long been pressing her to come, and who
would take good care of her.

I would not wish to be with Evra at a hotel,'
Bethesda said. ' She will be in a turmoil, and I
shall really visit with her better being somewhere
else. Besides, the Doctors would be rightfully
offended if I went anywhere rather than to them.'

The arrangements were soon made, and Bethesda
was to leave with her uncle next day.

I only wish you were going to be there,' said
Bethesda to her sister, T\ith a peculiar yearning.
I don't know how to be away from you anymore.'


It will be good for you both to discover,'
remarked Mrs. Stanhope. ' Margaret and the
baby shall come over to me while you are gone,
and you will come back all the fresher to one
another.'

We never needed that, did wee, Beth ? '

No, dear ; I have no fear of our tiring one
another.'

Mr. Stanhope's companionship on the journey
east was a great relief to his niece, for she shrank
with unusual timidity from being alone with the
knowledge that Eene was in America, and probably
aware of all her movements. It was really
something of a comfort, too, to leave Marcott
behind. His presence had become irksome to
her, yet she disliked to dismiss him, for he was
irreproachable in service and discretion ; but she

felt she could be less guarded when he was fairly-left
behind. Perhaps later it would be advisable,
not alone on her own account, to send him away
altogether.

Guinevere had particularly requested Bethesda
not to come down to the dock to meet her.
Come instead to the hotel when you know I
have arrived, and once more I shall hold you in
my arms and press you to the heart whose love
you have known and touched.'

Bethesda did as she was bidden, had a telegram
sent her when the steamer came, and at
last started off one snowy afternoon, dressed with
especial daintiness, to meet the friend she had
not seen since that summer day in London so
long ago.

She had sent flowers before her to give the
artist a silent welcome, and when she entered the
parlour reserved to Mademoiselle Cinoni's use
the room was full of fragrance, if empty. In an
instant, however, the door was flung open with

an impetuosity which brought a smile to Bethesda's
lips, and Guinevere, tall, golden-haired,
insistent as ever, stood before her, and held her
hands, and searched her face, and then took her,
furs and all, into a passionate embrace.

You are my Lily just as you were ! ' she
exclaimed. ' Only I had not dreamed you could
change so, and still be my own. And I, — would
you know me ? '

She held Bethesda off, and seized her eyes
with a look which was penetrating yet trustful.

No one could ever mistake you,' said Bethesda
with admiring warmth. ' Dear E\T:a ! it is
so natural to see you — and yet so strange.'

Ah, yes ; you are thinking of your aunt.
True, child. We have gone through much since
we were last together, I as well as you. But we
can never lose the grasp of one another's hearts
which we took, and held, and will hold for ever.
Come, love ; let us sit down and give me time to
feel I actually have you. No, you shan't undo

VOL. III. Q

your cloak; let me. Didn't I use to be your
maid ? I haven't forgotten my old ways. Do
you remember the bon-bons and the lilies ? Ah,
sweet! it was good of you to send me these.
Here are some roses, too, such as you used to like.
Not from you ? '

She took up the card lying among them, then
glanced sharply at Bethesda. Seeing her unsuspecting
face she threw the card immediately
aside.

Well, then, I don't care for them. Here,
take this chair by the fire. Now, don't rebel.
You know I am well aware of your habit of saying
" No " and " No," and I just don't mind it at
all ! Here you sit, dear, and here I sit,' pulling
forward a stool and placing herself quickly at
Bethesda's feet. ' Ah, now I am happy ! I will
just hold your hand, caressing mia, and we will
be still. I must realise you.'

Bethesda submitted quietly. How familiar it
all was, and how fresh and frank this artist's

heart had kept during these years of gaslight
glare ! One could see the experience in her face,
however ; in the faint lines on her forehead, the
proud glance of the eyes, the widened nostrils,
the decision and haughty indifference of the
mouth. The artist was there also stronger than
ever ; the intensity, the assured capacity, the
power of enthusiasm, were heightened and
steadied. Bethesda looked forward to seeing
her in some great part with an anticipative
thrill.

'AVell?' said Miss Conover, breaking the
silence with a full glance upwards, and a closer
pressure of the hand. But without waiting for
Bethesda to reply, she went on : ' I must tell
you, dearest, how free and true I feel just here,
humbly at your feet. I believe the touch of
this little hand has lifted from me the weight of
a hundred prisoners' chains. You don't know
what my life has been, Beth; such suspicion, and
distrust, and rancour ; and all the time, night

and day, having to defend myself, and guard my
thoughts not to become bitter and hating too.
And now, here I come to you, Feel you, and all
the best I have lived, all the glories of my art,
and the noble ideals it lends me for a time, filter
through into myself, my me. You do this, love.
Each lineament of your face shows how you and
your ideal are one, and helps me to feel mine so
too. Some one said that, " in his hand her
soul felt safe and free." Mine does in yours,
Bethesda.'

Dear Evra I ' said Bethesda in a deeply
touched tone, ' it is because you are so true an
artist that you feel this. Don't rob yourself to
lavish praise on me.'

I don't ! Haven't I tried to be just this and
failed? I have fought for it, cried for it, prayed
for it, and — lost it. Now, with one little touch,
in an instant you give it me.'

Her head fell into Bethesda's lap, and the
hand she loved wandered caressingly and in

silence over the soft curls. It spoke too much,
however, for Guinevere rose abruptly.

I can't stand it !' she said in a choked voice,
and went softly out of the room.

A moment later Mrs. Conover entered, and
greeted Bethesda cordially, although she looked
anxious.

What have you been doing to my daughter ? '
she asked, half smiling. ' I have not seen her
so overcome in a long time.'

She is tired from the voyage, and the excitement
of meeting again has, I think, surprised
her into a momentary weakness. She is well ?
She looks so.'

Oh, very well. She begins rehearsals tomorrow.
They are in a great hurry for her to
appear. They won't give her much time. It is
a disadvantageous arrangement, but she would
listen to nothing: in her eagerness to come to
America. You will be at her debut? She is
not frightened any more as she used to be,^ —

unless you frighten her, my dear. And how is
your sister? And poor Mrs. Trescott's baby?
We have taken such an interest in everything.
Are you quite well yourself now ? I believe, my
child, the baby has made a little mother of you.
You seem like a married woman.'

Do I V said Bethesda, with a rather sad smile.
Our May-Flower certainly exerts a great influence
over us, almost as much as her mother used to,
in a different way. I wish you could see her.
She does not look at all like Aunt Mabel unfortunately,
but she is very winning.'

Oh, I can fancy that, Mrs. Trescott was so
charming. But you should just see Vera with a
child. A friend of hers had one, and she
worshipped it. She used to slip away from the
parlour in the evening and go upstairs to sing it
to sleep. Sometimes the whole household would
crowd around the door to listen ; but she never
knew it. I kept that little domestic pleasure for
her undisturbed. You can fancy how she has

improved, but you shall hear ! How very good
it was of you to strew such sweet praise in her

path before she came ! Your name now

Ah, here she comes.'

Guinevere had conquered her emotion, and
was during the rest of the interview quite her
usual brisk, entertaining, and brilliant self. She
had a thousand stories to tell, and told them with
admirable spirit. But she would not let Bethesda
talk much. Something in the low tones threatened
her newly won composure.

As Bethesda was going away she took her in
her arms and whispered :

When you see me again you won't affect me
so. Come often, dear ; I need you. If I am
out I will leave word for you, and I will run into
you whenever I can catch a minute. Wrap
yourself well, sweet. Good-bye.'

She said good-bye, but she held her Lily
still locked in a close embrace.

What are you ? ' she broke out at last.

Are you here in my arms or not ? I believe I
shall find you died a week ago, and this is your
spirit come to visit me. "Well, go, if you must.
But don't vanish entirely. I shall see if you
exist tomorrow. You laugh ? It is no laughing
matter. Still, I have your card, and we
shall see.'

Guinevere found her friend in existence the
next day, and for many days after, and gradually
she became used to her, and lost the feeling of
insubstantiality which had at first haunted her.
However, she did not feel satisfied in regard to
her, and groped in the dark, as it were, for the
keynote to this elusive harmony.

The name of Eene d'Isten was for long not
mentioned between them. Bethesda had become
so unfamiliar to the sound of it that it would
have startled her, in spite of the fact that now
he was seldom absent from her thoughts. Being
away from Margaret and the baby, and all the
surroundings of her new life, and again with

comparative strangers and Evra, as lie had been
in the old days, brought the past continually
before her. Even Mrs. Trescott seemed less
absent than when her child was present, and
except when Bethesda was with the Conovers
her life seemed to move among shadows ; a feeling*
that made her look to the honos future at
times with a half-unconscious dread.

The night that Mademoiselle Cinoni made her
debut, Bethesda felt herself transported bodily to
the Pergola in Florence, and, when a voice addressed
her, turned almost expecting to see
Signor Straora. Yet everything around her was
different. The house was an American one, and
if crammed was capriciously critical and timid of
applause. As the 023era went forward, however,
Bethesda forgot herself and her surroundings
completely. One in the audience felt it safe for
him to keep his glass fixed upon her face, recognising
each shade of emotion, yet unafraid of
detection.

Mademoiselle Cinoni was at her best, which
was superb. The tenor supported her admirably,
and the matchless beauty of the opera was rendered
with perfection. The house from being
cold and hesitating, became quite Italian with
enthusiasm. An opera so sung had never before
been heard in America, and neither had the
applause to which it gave rise. Bethesda was
in one of the stage-boxes, and was recognised by
some as the authoress whose name had endorsed
the singer before them. The fact passed from
one to another between the acts, and when she
let fall a mass of lilies at her friend's feet, which
was immediately caught up with a glance of
gratitude, a wave of tribute broke over the
house, which was an acknowledgment of both
the season's favourites.

In talking the evening over next day, Guinevere
said, somewhat abruptly :

Monsieur d'Isten was there. Did you know
he was a marquis now ? '

I had heard of it. When did he lose his
father ? ' asked Bethesda calmly.

•' Only a short time ago ; about three months
now. He was very ill himself after it. The
strain had been a lonsr one, for it was soon after
your sister telegraphed us you were better that he
heard the news of his father. Ah ! those were
terrible days, dearest ! M. d' 1st en was quite
beside himself when we heard there was no hope
for you. He entertained for you a devotion so
pure and unselfish that I think at any time he
would have given his life to spare you pain.'

Bethesda turned somewhat paler, but she
answered steadily :

'Do you think so? Then, Evra, why is he
here now ? '

Let him tell you, dear : that is all he desires.
Yes, I have seen him ; of course I have. We
came quite close together, through you, those
dreadful weeks in Paris. He ^Tote to me after
you refused to see him in S . He did not

see why you should not trust him. I was glad
to be able to tell him I was about to sail for
America. I was sure you would let me prevail
upon you to meet him, and allow him to explain
what he has to tell you. Don't fear him. He
is an honourable man. May I tell him he can
call on you ? or will you meet him here ? '

Neither, Guinevere. How can you ask it of
me ? It is not right that I should meet him —
not under existing circumstances.'

What are " existing circumstances " ? '

The present ones.'

Ah ! dear, don't put me off. Be frank with me.
I assure you, I, — and you trust me ? — that there is
no reason why you should not meet — unless '

Well ? '

Unless you are engaged.'

Bethesda turned aside abruptly and did not
speak.

I did not mean to hurt you, darling ; believe
me, I am only working for your happiness ; I '

Evra, where is Madame cVIsteu { '

Madame d'Isten ? I have no idea.'

Enough, Evra ; this is a matter no one but I
can understand — no one but I should control
You must trust me when I say firmly, and for
the last time, that I shall not illinois meet
Rene d'Isten.'

Ah ! if you are so determined But let

me just say this : Have you no thought of what
he may understand better than you ? — no belief
that he should control anything ? Bethesda,
this is not as it should be ; you are not frank
with me or with your own heart.'

Miss Hamilton raised her eyes slowly to her
friend's and let them rest there. A majesty of
resignation dominated all desire in them so royally
that the artist seized her hands with a cry :

Do as you think best, my darling, but don't
look at me like that ! You stab me ! '

And Bethesda pressed the contrite hands, and
nothing more was said.

Where I found only food

For self-indulgence, you still blew a spark at brood

I' the dullest amber ; stopped not till self-sacrifice imbued

Heaven's face with flame.'

Egbert Browning.

A FEW days later Mademoiselle Cinoni was singing
at a matinee, from which Bethesda had been
detained by company. She escaped, however,
late in the afternoon, and went to the hotel to
see Guinevere as soon as she should return. The
gas was already lighted in the streets as she left
her carriage, and twilight made the parlour dim
and chill.

Put on more coal, please,' she said to the
servant, who by this time knew her well. ' Miss
Conover will be cold when she comes in. I will
wait for her.'

Shall I light the gas, madam V
Xo, thanks ; the firelight pleases me.'
When he had left the room she laid aside her
hat and cloak, bent to see if the jacqueminot
roses at her belt were crushed, and then went
towards the grate slowly, pressing her hands together
as if she were in pain. Her face, distinct
in the half glow, half gloom, was sad. The
curves of her lips denoted a renunciation that
was made not without sorrow, and her eyes shone
with unshed tears.

She stood a few moments on the hearth in her
gray close-clinging dress, her mien one of lassitude
and depression. Then she moved, with a
faintly indicated gesture of shifting a burden,
and slowly seated herself.

The next instant the hand she had allowed to
drop over the arm of her chair was seized and
held and kissed again and ao;ain. Some one
knelt beside her with bowed head, murmuring,
in broken syllables :

Esda ! My beloved Esda ! My Bethesda ! '

The passive fingers grew icy under his lips
before he dared look up. The chill silence shocked
him. What had happened ?

Her face was ashen ; her eyes closed. He
sprang to his feet in alarm.

Leave me ! ' she said then faintly.

He went away at once ; not out of the room,
but to the window at the end of it, and stood
there indecisive.

What should he do ? If he left her now, his
last chance was gone, and if he stayed he might
kill her before she learned what he meant. But he
could not give her up ! He must discover what
this meant, this coldness 'and suffering — the one
so apparent, the other intentionally concealed.

Gradually he turned so as to be able to see
her without seeming to do so. She was recovering
; she was sitting upright now, her hand to
her heart. Suspense was worse than death to
them both. He went swiftly to her side.

Bethesda.' lie said, ' I have no wife. Be
mine.'

He waited for some response, but she gave
him none. She was gathering the strength
she knew she must command, in long stifled
breaths.

At last he went and knelt before her, where
the full light from the fire could strike his face.

Esda,' he pleaded, ' I beseech you to look at
me. Bead in my face what you can. I have
nothing to fear, and once it was an open book to
you as was my soul.'

'Hush!'

I cannot longer be silent ! ' he exclaimed passionately.
' I have waited and waited for you to
trust me. I must exculpate myself I beg your
forgiveness for having forced my way into your
presence. If your heart does not intercede forme
after these years of thirst I will not attempt
it. I have not time. Listen, Bethesda ; look at
me and tell me, are you afraid of my deceiving

VOL. III. R

you — you who are omnipresent, omnipotent with
me ? I have obeyed you with unwavering persistence
for two whole years. I have done with
joy all you told me, because it was your wish.
And, Bethesda, I have had during the darkest
times a sure faith that Heaven would reward us.
God gives it to you, Esda, to be my heaven on
earth ; you cannot refuse ! Why would you not
see me ? You knew I would not have come to
you until I was free, and could claim you before
all the world as my own. You are mine ; you
cannot deny it. You are killing yourself in trying
to deny it. Beloved, take what God offers
you and share it with me. Let us enjoy life
purely. God offers it to us, Bethesda ; we must
not refuse.'

In spite of his ardent words he had not dared
move towards her. Something held him away.
He felt her far off, as if the remorseless ocean
rolled its waves between them still.

Eene, you have spoken, let me speak.' Her

voice, faint at first, grew clearer as she proceeded.
Once you overcame all my scruples, one by one.
I have been taught my weakness and your power,
and I have not come to this moment unprepared.
You must understand that I am firm when I say
I can never marry you.'

Bethesda ! '

Hush, you must hear me now. Think how
we tempted one another away from our allegiance
to right, to duty, and you will see '

You never " tempted" me,' burst out Eene
irrepressibly, ' unless it were to purity and fidelity.
You put your hand on me and said : Be faithful
to Louise, and I obeyed you. But now all my
allegiance to her is severed. I never was hers,
and I now, heart and soul, am yours. It is to
you alone I owe fealty.'

You owe no fealty to me, my friend, — that
is another error into which we fell. It is not to
persons so much that we owe duties as to ourselves
and to God. Your conscience is too precious

a charge to give to any one but him. That
was where I injured you before.'

As if you ever injured me ! I would leave it
with the good God to-day to declare if I am nota
better man than when I met you ; ay, Bethesda,
a better man.' And Bethesda, recognising the
stronger manhood in him, could not disbelieve it.
When I look towards God, beloved, I cannot
help seeing you, because you are above me, and
nearer him. Do not shrink, Bethesda, for I speak
reverently. I found the tenderness and pity of
God during your illness when he answered my
prayers and made you well. The weight of my
conscience shall never rest again upon you, I
promise you ; but my conscience, yes, God himself,
who is love, tells me to claim you, to make
you mine. I am free. I am free, Bethesda ; you
cannot put me back in those chains which weighed
on my soul and your tender heart. Beloved, you
cannot refuse me. I hold your heart, come tome
and let us be at rest.'

He held out his arms towards her with an
eloquent appeal, but she shrank into her chair,
and clenched her hands tight.

Ma bien aimed ! ' exclaimed Eene, a newly
aroused anxiety in his voice : ' Thou dost love
me ? Thou wilt not be obdurate ? Thou wilt
not condemn one who loves each breath thou
dearest, to exile from thee ? See, Esda ; my
father is no more ; nothing longer binds me to
Europe. I will come to America, and live where
thou desires. Anything, so that we are together.
Thou must, love. Thy fragile life cannot
bear this strain. Thy petals, my rose, are
closing over the grief which consumes thee. Let
me snatch it from thee, dearest, and fill thy
heart with rejoicing. I can, for thou lowest me.'

Bethesda could not speak, but made a negative
sign.

Thou dost not love me ? ' exclaimed Eene,
seizing her hand. ' Thou canst not say it ! Each
touch of these slender fingers betrays thee !

Thou dost love me I thou wilt always love me.
I hold thy heart ; I shall never let it go, so help
me God.' Then his voice suddenly fell to low,
persuasive accents : ' Give me this hand, Bethesda.
It is small ; it is kind. Since I have the
wealth of thy heart, add this little, dear hand.
It will lose thee nothing; it will give me all.
Silent still ? Ah, God ! was ever grief like this I
To see her dying, and feel my very vitals gnawed
with hunger to save her, and she refuses me !
Esda, Bethesda, it shall not be ! Thou canst not
do this thing, for I will not let thee. If thou
didst not love me I would not complain, but

now Feel my heart ! its throbs are each a

tribute to you. You have my life in your hands.
Do not spill the warm blood that would pour
itself into your veins to nourish you. I cannot
live longer without thee, Bethesda ! I will
follow thee about the world ; I will renounce
all else to wait upon thee, thy shadow not closer
nor more persistent. And to my importunity

thou silt 3rLeld what thou wilt not to m j love !
Bethesda, ma toute aimed, look upon thy servant
and kill him not ! '

He flung himself at her knees, and buried his
face in his hands. A new strength, not her own,
seemed to enter into Bethesda's anguished heart.

Eene, look at me,' she said. He lifted grief-stricken
eyes to hers. ' Tell me ; if — if I married
you and should die, would you not feel your life
sacred to me ? '

In death as in life,' said Rene solemnly.

Then it is your duty to feel the same, to act
at least the same, to Louise. Love only makes
duty passionately present, and as long as your
body is one vdXh. your soul, you and your wife
are one flesh.'

Eene rose in bewilderment.

You do not mean that simply because I have
been married you would not marry me, even if
Louise were dead ? No, no, Bethesda, that would
be folly.'

" Even if she were'" quoted Bethesda wonderingly.
' Does she still live ? Did you not say
she died last spring ? '

She was looking at him piercingly now, and
under her eyes his fell.

I lost her then, yes,' said Kene, feeling an
irresistible sense of equivocation before this clear
soul.

But she had been shocked into an acute consciousness
of — was it concealment or duplicity ?
in him. It wrung her heart, but it severed
her from him, and made her keen after the
truth. She rose, struck a match, and lit the
drop-light, then turned to him with a grave
authority.

Tell me about it,' she said simply. ' How
did she die ? What caused her death ? '

Rene looked at her and down again, aground
for a moment, but he made his decision, and
floated free quickly.

It is a sad story, my Bethesda,' he said, with

a creature of merciful withholding. ' Do not let
us speak of it now. Let it suffice that I assure
you solemnly I am free, — free absolutely, by law,
by heart, and by intent.'

But I must know,' said Bethesda, looking at
him with clear commanding eyes. ' You used
to say you spoke freely to me ; do so now, this
once more, Eene, for I ought to know.'

Eene felt her supremacy, and his habit of
giving obedience where he gave confidence
reasserted itself in an unlooked-for manner. But
if she knew the truth, his cause would be lost.
No, why should it ? On the contrary it might
vanquish that uncomprehended notion of hers to
find that he had never been married. And was
not love the true marriage ? He had often heard
her say so.

Listen then, since you insist,' he began. ' T
desire nothing so much as to lay my whole life
in your hands. I would have spared you what
cannot help but pain your large heart, for it

means suffering to another, but as always I obey
you. Louise was never my wife.'

Never your wife !' repeated Bethesda in low
tones of dismay.

No ; the marriage was illegal. We neither
of us suspected it for years, but her lover proved
it to me not long ago. She never was other
than Louise Manners.' And then he told her
of the law forbidding the intermarriage of French
and foreigners on foreign soil. ' But we could
arrange that. You could go with your aunt to
France, and there '

^ Hush ! How can you speak of marriage tome,
to any one but Louise ! ' She sat erect in
her chair, as though it were the throne of judgment.
' Your whole honour binds you to her.
She is your wife before G-od ; man's laws are
insignificant beside those divine ones. You cannot
help but marry her.'

But, chere Bethesda, listen. Is not love
a divine law ? Louise never loved me, nor I

her. She married me, as we thought, loving
another. She did wrong ; I know you think so.
Would you, then, have me commit the same
sin?'

I would not have you commit the sin of
deserting a woman who had entrusted her
honour, her life, to your hands, no matter what
her feelings. To act you must judge by acts.
You are her husband. You should not have let
a day pass before you acknowledged her lawfully
as such. She knows nothing of it, you say ?
But think how cruel would be her fate did chance
let her know. Oh, hasten back and marry herat
once ! Do not linger an unnecessary hour.'

If she refused me, and preferred to marry
one whom she has long loved, what then,
Bethesda ?' he said, with slow significance. ' And
she has often wished to be free from me ; we
both know that.'

Bethesda flinched a moment before this possibility,
but recovered herself at once.

Then show her how wrong it would be she
answered promptly. ' Plead with her ; point
out to her how no man could respect her did she
choose, wilfully choose, to stigmatise her past
with dishonour ; less than any other, a person
who has acted as that man has. How evil must
have been his aim to have proven this technicality
to you ! No, no, she would not so malign
herself as to choose him rather than you ; she
could not ; by my woman's heart I know it 1 '

Ah, that heart, Bethesda ! it is mine. I will
not give it up.'

It is not yours, Eene d'Isten,' and Bethesda
drew herself up superbly. '' My heart is no
man's who could leave any deed undone to repair
an irreparable loss, not only to the woman he
has called wife but to himself. Oh, it is the
cruellest of my punishments that I should be the
object to stand between you and the performance
of your most manifest duty ! Bene, my respect
even cannot be yours unless you return instantly

to France and many Louise. I conch never forgive
myself, never forgive you, if our acquaintance
should thus degrade you.'

That is morbidness, folly \ ' exclaimed Eene,
almost angrily. ' Your morality is warped,
Bethesda, by thinking on this subject so near
your heart. Is not love the real marriage ? And
I never loved Louise, nor she me. Two years
ago when you bade me renounce you, you were
a saint. It was the crucifixion of your heart
and of mine, but you did right. Even in the
bitterest moments I acknowledged this. Now I
say you are wrong. You sacrifice your happiness
and mine ; your health, my sanity perhaps,
to a fanciful duty, a morbid sense of honour. I
have given eight years of my life to Louise
without succeeding; in winnings her love. Let
that suffice. I will do what is right by her,
but ■'

'But nothing else than marriage can even
mitigate this terrible evil, Eene. ''A fanciful

duty " ? No duty could be more imperative.
What 1 You would be " unlike other men " and
yet live eight years before the world as a husband,
and then refuse to marry the woman you called
wife ? You would be the truly chivalrous man,
and leave a woman to ignominy who had borne
your name ? You cannot do it, Eene ; it is not
in you. You will marry her because it is right,
because you owe it to God to redeem an innocent
mistake, or else it becomes a most guilty one.
If it is a sacrifice, look upon it as a proof of repentance
for the wrong we have done. It will
be accepted as such, and only such a one can be
accepted, for it alone can undo the wrong. Trust
me, Eene.'

He was silent a few moments, overcome against
his will by her words and tone.

Beloved, how can I trust you,' he said at
last, ' when I feel that this is overleaping the
limits of morality, and that in an endeavour
which robs me of you, it is killing you. Ah !

dearest, trust me once. Love is the sovereign
who dictates laws, who seizes our hearts and
gives us no liberty but in obeying his commands.
Come to me, fear not. It is what men have done
always ; it is what every law sanctions. Besides,
dearest, it is your life ; it is my life. Come.'

She had grown paler and paler as he spoke,
and her hand was pressed to her side. Eene
thought he felt a wavering; in her mind, and tried
to take her hand, kneeling beside her. But she
motioned him away.

•' No,' she said faintly, * this — this hurts deep.
It stabs me, Eene, to have such words addressed
to me by one who, before God and my soul,
owes himself to another. This proves how unlike
we are. We are no longer one in thought
and feeling ; we are grievously separated, more
than ever before. Go, Eene. I don't wish to see
you any more.'

'But you love me, Bethesda,' said Eene, with
deep reproach.

I did love you ; you knew that ; it was
wrong. Because it was wrong I have striven to
overcome it. I need strive no longer, for you
have killed it now. You need not snatch my
hand ; I am not a girl to be swept off my feet,
and — and — that I should live to say it ! — your
touch makes me shudder.'

Eene dropped her hand, and stepped back as
if struck. The recoil of his own act hurt him
too, and deeply.

Presently Bethesda raised her head and the
faint colour came back to her lips and cheeks.

^ But I cannot believe it,' she said. ' It is
only because you do not see it right. Look at it
in this way, Eene. If I were to marry you here,
and you discovered that the marriage was illegal,
what would you do then ? '

Take you at once to France and marry you
there.'

Then how can you doubt that this is your
duty to Louise \ What you would do for me

because yon care for me, do for her because it is
right. If it is hard, do it the more gladly because
it shows you grieve for past faults. Show
that you are stronger for temptations resisted, by
doings this deed.'

o

'It would never have occurred to me two
years ago as a duty, Bethesda, and now — I confess
I was in. doubt, just at first.'

Ah, you see ! I knew there must be something
there if I could only reach it. You mil goto
her ? You will persuade her ? You do not
yourself think there could be any danger of her
choosing any one but you ? She feels differently
towards you than she did ? — I knew it. I am
convinced you will both yet be hajopy. Go to
her ; show her the position, for she must see to
understand. Make her acknowledge that she
prefers you, and oh, Eene, would I not be glad ! '

Her face was radiant now, and her eyes starry.
Eene looked at the transformation in amazement.


VOL. III. S

And would you have nothing to regret '? ' he
said slowly.

Regret ? I '? No, indeed ! A moment ago
I thought I had lost you really, vitally ; that
you were ignoble. I see now you were but trying
me. But if you can accomplish an harmonious
union between yourself and your wife you
will give me the keenest happiness. I feel a
great weight lifted from me, for I believe it is
possible, and that you will not fail. I am sure
you will not. A steamer sails tomorrow, some
friends of mine go by it ; go too, and telegraph
me when she has acknowledged her affection for
you and you are really married. That shall bethe
last word between us, and what a good word !
-You will ?

There was a little silence, while Bethesda's
eyes seemed to seize his very soul and hold it to
her high purpose. Then :

I never disobeyed you yet, he said. ' I shall
not now. I will do my best.'

Ah ! my true Bethesda 1 ' lie exclaimed presently,
recognising that lie had won his o\vti
highest approval in winning hers. ' Each time I
approach you I see a new height of truth. You
have cured me of one evil after another ever
since the pool of your heart was first stirred
for me.'

No, it is only Christ who can do that she
answered softly. ' He bids you drop the burden
of the past and go forward in a new life, free.
He Twill bless you in it, Eene ; go.'

Through love to light ! Oh wonderful the way,
That leads from darkness to the perfect day !
From darkness and from dolor of the night,
To morning that comes singing o'er the sea.
Through love to light ! through light, God, to Thee
Who art the love of love, the eternal light of light I '

E. W. Gilder.

Several years later Eene d'Isten, with Louise
upon his arm, was going through the Parisian
Salon on the Artist's Day before the grand opening.
He was glancing at the pictures a little
carelessly, more occupied with the memories of
seven years ago when he had come here with
Bethesda and Mrs. Trescott, than with what surrounded
him, although he did not fail in delicate
attentions to his wife.

His face showed the time and experience that

lead passed, yet with all its recueillement it was
not sad. There was a compact force of character,
a unity of purpose, a continual surety of uprightness,
which gave new dignity to his features, and
made each line a mark of honour. If his life was
much in the past, the present was unusually full
of large aims and noble endeavour, and the toying
^dth life which had once been a delight to him had
now given place to earnest work. At the present
moment, however, he was for a rarity dreaming.
Louise had changed much more markedly than
Eene. There was a content and self-control in
her face ncA-er seen there previously, and her
eyes were often turned with solicitous tenderness
to her husband's face. She frequently thought
in recurring to that stormy scene five years ago,
when she had heard of his devotion, her lover's
perfidy, and the American's nobility, that some
good power had guided her to choose that better
part which should not be taken from her. Her
husband was ever near to uphold and guide

her, and she was quite willing that he should
dream occasionally, for it proved his freedom in
her presence. She knew that she was never irksome
to him now.

The people round them meantime were neither
dreaming nor pondering. They were all extremely
interested in the exhibition. Picturesque
men with eccentric manners, and 'artist' written
on each article of their dress ; women with more
brains — of a kind — and less timidity than ordinary
womanhood possesses ; scattered members
of the haute-vole amusing themselves with the
scene ; all thronged through the rooms together,
examining, criticising, and babbling. Every one
seemed to tend with a rather remarkable unanimity
to the central apartment where the prize
picture hung. The listens drifted with the
rest, hearing indifferently the remarks of this or
that one near them.

It is by an Italian,' said one.

" The Answer to the Sphinx ! " ' laughed

another, turning; the leaves of a catalogue. ' What
a name ! '

More of a mystery than the question sneered
a third.

•' Oh, mon Dieu, these Italians 1 ' cried a brill
woman. ''WTiat ideas they do
have, there in the land of the Beatrice ! I demand
it of you, messieurs, did such a woman as
this '^ Answer" ever live V

Ma foi ! not in Paris.'

• Does she look Italian, then ? ' asked the
woman triumphantly. * Gold-brown hair, and eyes

of Well, you shall tell me what shade

they are. The prize, indeed ! The man does
not know how to mix his colours. '

Here they reached the threshold of the centre
room, and suddenly all the chatter fell away from
Eene d'Isten's hearing as if he had been lifted to
another region by one sweep of a powerful wing.
Before him was the almost breathing form of
Bethesda Hamilton.

She stood, dressed in the warm white she
loved, her head turned a little upwards, as if she
had but just let her eyes fall from some great
vision, to meet, and hold, and exalt, the sight of
those who looked upon her.

When one could leave the eyes for a moment,
one noticed the brows, serene in spite of their
capacity for suffering ; the exquisite contour from
forehead to chin, and the willing resignation of
the mouth,, which made it really joyous.

It was a face beyond compare, and it was a
faultless painting. Louise had seen photographs
of Bethesda, and she recognised the face, and
admitted its supremacy. She tightened her clasp
a little, unconsciously, on her husband's arm, as
they stood beneath the gaze which met and held
them both above all earthly strife. This was the
woman he had left to come to her and retrieve
her from dishonour. A deep humility overspread
her face. - She looked up at Eene. He was
wrapped in an exalted enthusiasm. The painting;

made alive to him Bethesda's books which
came year after year and laid their treasures wide
before him. It reinvigorated his noblest aims
and truest endeavours. He turned to his wife
and pressed her hand against his side.

She needs no mortals,' he said. ' Long since
I called her a saint. She is that. No one can
touch her. She is above us all, and she smiles
down on our union, my Louise. Thus did she
look when she told me her keenest happiness
would be in seeing us truly united. She sees us
now.'

Louise's eyes were Stemming in tears at the
tenderness of his tone. All the bitterness of
jealousy was replaced by this sweetness. She
clung; to him a moment with both hands.

A laugh, a Parisian laugh, low and keen,
startled them.

Why do they paint impossibilities ? ' queried
a languid voice. * I find cano-els much too unreal
for me. Some lover's vision \ Of course ! How

silly they are ! ' and another laugh rounded the
mocking sentence to completeness.

It turned all Eene d' 1st en's thoughts into a
new channel. For a moment he was madly
jealous of the man who had access to Bethesda
sufficiently to paint this. A man who loved her
too, that was clear. Only a lover could see her
like this, and reproduce her — for the Parisian
world to scoff at ! Faugh ! that was no love !
The fellow had no sense of decency even 1

Yet, as he looked up again, she seemed so
unapproachable, though speaking to each one,
and taintless as Goethe's angels throwing the
flowers of love into hell, that he could not feel
her sullied ; not as he would have done had that
other jasmine-faced picture hung here, questioning
and wistful.

Now all her questions were answered. She
knew,

A half-hour later Eene d'Isten turned and
asked some one beside him who was the artist.

Monsieur Straora, an Italian was the reply.

Can you tell me where I might find him ? '

He stands there, monsieur.'

The marquis looked and saw the Florentine
painter absorbed in contemplation of his work.

Let us speak to him, Louise, if you do not
object ? ' he said.

Certainly not.'

A few steps brought Eene and his wife to
Signor Straora's side.

Monsieur Straora, I believe ? Pray allow
me to give you my card and claim acquaintance
through one I have often heard mention you,
and whom you have now placed before us so beautifully.
Madame d'Isten, Monsieur Straora.'

The artist bowed, and answered courteously :

I am much pleased to meet you, Monsieur le
Marquis. When I last had the pleasure of seeing
Miss Hamilton, she had recently received a letter,
I think, from Madame d'Isten. It seemed to
give her great satisfaction.'

'Not sufficient for her to answer it,' said
Louise, smiling. ' But I trust she is well ? '

Quite well, for her ; at least she was a month
ago. She is delicate, but you see her works ? You
know then how indefatigably busy she must be.'

And is she really so beautiful as you depict
her, monsieur ? '

The artist smiled as he glanced at his work,
but sobered in so doing,

I wish you might meet her, madame, to see
how little I have done her justice.'

I wish I might, indeed : but since she does
not even respond to my letters, will you not call
upon us and tell us about her ? I confess I have
great curiosity in regard to a woman who is so
exquisite, and yet occupies herself only with
work, and the care of another's child — which washer
life when we last heard of her, was it not,
Monsieur d' 1st en V

' ' Her whole interest, I believe,' said Eene ;
but that would not be apt to last.'

I see no signs of its clinging replied Signor
Straora quietly. ' She is more than content ;
she is happy. One could not wish her life to
change and an involuntary sigh escaped him.

Is the destiny of your painting fixed ? ' asked
Eene presently.

Yes ; it is not for sale. I shall have it taken
to Italy when the Exhibition is over. I see you
have both gone to the heart of my subject. Few
in Paris ^dll, but it shall hang; here for a while
to teach the city what a woman may be.'

The three stood silent for some time, while
the eyes above took possession of their souls and
led them into the regions of peace. Eene had
recognised that the artist's admiration of his
subject, though exalted, was impersonal, and he
guessed the cause. Bethesda, as he had said,
needed no mortals. And Louise could have no
jealousy, for she felt herself closer to her husband
now than this woman could be.

But some deep and uncomprehended feeling

brought the tears to her eyes. Eene saw
them.

My wife he bent to say, ' she gave you tome
gladly, and I thank her.'

As Monsieur and Madame d'Isten turned
away after securing the promise of a speedy
call from Signor Straora, they heard their new
friend mutter to himself, still studying the picture
:

And yet it is not like, it is not like.'

THE END.

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

NEW NOVELS.

Mirage'

A New Novel by George Fleming.
VESTIGIA. A Novel.

By George Fleming. Author of "A Nile Novel,"
The Head of Medusa," etc. 2 Vols. Globe 8vo. 12s.

"vestigia,' a novel worth reading. . . . All readers of ' A Nile Novel '-will easily
understand ; the descriptions of scenery are charming, and the 'local colour' is on the
whole well preserved." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Mrs. Oliphant's New Novel.
HESTER. A Story of Contemporary Life.

By Mrs. Oliphant, Author of "The Curate in Charge," "Young
Margrave," etc. 3 Vols. Crown 8vo. 31s. j6d.

*^* This book has not previously appeared in a serial form.
Undeniably a clever book." — St. James's Gazette.

Her narrative is far superior in interest to the ordinary run of novels. Throughout,
Mrs. Oliphant has such a perfect comprehension of her characters, of what they will and
will not do, of their springs of action, and of the way in which they would meet unexpected
or menacing circumstances, that her personal scenery is as real to the reader as if
he stood among the group." — Spectator.

"At her best, she is, I think, with one or two exceptions, the best of living novelists.
She is at her best in ' Hester.' " — AcadeiJiy.

Now Ready, with Introductory Essay by John Morley,
THE COLLECTED storks OF

RALPH ^VALDO EMERSON.

Uniform with the Eversley Edition of Charles Kingsley's Novels. Globe 8vo."

5$. each volume.

1. MISCELLANIES. With an Introductory

Essay bv John Morley.

2. ESSAYS. ' 3. POEMS.

4. ENGLISH TRAITS : and Representative
MEN.

5. CONDUCT OF LIFE : and SOCIETY

AND SOLITUDE.

6. LETTERS: and SOCIAL AIMS,

etc.

Messrs. Macmillan's edition of Emerson's Works is probably the most taking, if
only for Mr. Morley's thoughtful and charming preliminary essay ! " — Spectator.

"Their great merits are careful editing and beautiful finish." — British Quarterly
Review.

(2Etier0lep Coition

CHARLES KINGSLEY'S NOVELS.

In XI. volumes. Globe 8vo. 5s. each.

No English author has ever appeared in a more charming form. The size of the
volume is exactly what a volume ought to be that is supposed to be held in the hand, the
type is clear and easy, and the measure of the page and the texture of the paper are
thoroughly pleasant to the sight and touch. This is not an Edition de luxe, but it is
that much better thing for work-a-day readers, an edition of admirable taste and most
pleasant use." — Pall Mall Gazette.

WESTWARD HO ! 2 vols. its.
TWO YEARS AGO. 2 vols. los.
HYPATIA. 2 vols.

los.

YEAST. I vol. 5S.

ALTON LOCKE. 2 vols. los.

HEREWARD. 2 vols. los.

MACMILLAN AND CO., London.

Macmi Han's 4s. 6d. Series.

Price Four Shillings and Sixpence each Volume.

Mr. Isaacs : A Tale of Modern India. By F. Marion Crawford.

Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. \ Ready.

Dr. Claudius. By F. Marion Crawford. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. ready.

Only a Word. By Dr. Georg Ebers, Author of "The Egyptian Princess,"
&c. Translated by Clara Bell. Crown 8vo. Price 4s. 6d. \ Ready.

The Burgomaster's Wife. A Tale of the Siege of Leyden. By Dr.
Georg Ebers. Translated by Clara Bell. Crown 8vo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

A Great Treason. A Story of the War of Independence. By Mary

Hoppus. 2 Vols. Crown Svo. Price gs. [Ready.

Democracy. An American Novel. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. Popular
Edition, Paper Covers, is. ready.

Stray Pearls. Memoirs of Margaret de Ribaumont, Viscountess of
Bellaise. By Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols. Crown Svo. Price 9s. ready.

The Story of Reticent. By Fayr Madoc. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d.

ready.

But Yet a Woman : A Novel. By Arthur Sherburne Hardy.

Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. Popular Edition, Paper Covers, is. ready.

A Misguided Lassie. By Percy Ross. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d.

ready.

Memoir of Daniel Macmillan. By Thomas Hughes, Q. C. With a

Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, from a Painting by Lowes Dickinson.
Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. Popular Edition, is. ready.

Memoir of Annie Keary. By Eliza Keary. With a Portrait. Third

Thousand. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. [Ready.

Memoir of Sir Charles Reed. By His Son, Charles E. B. Reed,

M.A. With a Portrait. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

Lectures on Art. Delivered in support of the Society for Protection of
Ancient Buildings. By Regd. Stuart Poole, Professor W. B. Richmond, E. J.
Poynter, R.A., J. T. Micklethwaite, and William Morris. Crown Svo.
Price 4s. 6d. ready.

The Burma. His Life and Notions. By Sway Yoe. 2 Vols. Crown
Svo. Price gs. ready.

Folk Tales of Bengal. By the Rev. Lal Behari Day. Author of

Bengal Peasant Life." Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

Essays. By F. W. H. Myers, M.A. 2 Vols. I. — Classical. II. —

Modern. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. each. ready.

The Mis Maze ; or, The Wentworth Puzzle. A Story in Letters by Nine
-■ Authors. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

Felicity. A Tale of the German Migrations, a.d. 476. By Felix
Dawn. Translated by M. A. C. E. Crown Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

The Expansion of England. By Professor J. R. Seeley, M.A. Crown
Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

Camping among Cannibals. By Alfred St. Johnston, Crown

Svo. Price 4s. 6d. ready.

French Poets and Novelists. By Henry James, Author of "The

American," "The Europeans," &c. New Edition. Crown Svo, Price 4s. 6d.

ready.

Mrs, Lorimer : A Sketch in Black and White. By Lucas Malett.

Crown Svo, Price 4s, 6d, ready.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

^
