^^

s%

%iifilriie^

LOTeai ■#*• hooks are reo$«ni

The , n,u,il len. =nd ""-/■;^:7„:'„''::''-i»-i o> <"-
fer discipline action end amoy

the University. 8400

UNIVERSITY Of ILLINOIS II8»>-Y *1

SEP 3 19|

L161— O-1096

LOVE IN IDLENESS

THE STORY OF A WINTER. IN FLORIDA

BY

IZA DUFFUS Hardy

author of 'hearts or di.\moxds?' 'the love that he passu by'
oranges and alugatohs ' etc.

Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell :

It fell upon a little western flower, —

Before milk-white, now purple with Love's wound —

And maidens call it Love-in-idleness ! '

A Midsummer Xvjfu's Dream

IX There VOLUMES
VOL. I.

3^ n b n
F. V. WHITE & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, ^Y.C.

1S87

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NKW-sJTIlEET Square

LONDON

CONTENTS

OP

THE First VOLUME.

*r^

CHAPTEE I.

THE ATLANTIC COAST EXPRESS.

The prospect of a journey of over a thousand
miles, to be taken alone, was not in the least
degree alarming to Violet Preston ; nor need it
be, indeed, to even the most timorous of Enlist
girls, when the thousand miles are to be
passed in an American Pullman car. Violet
Preston was an English s^irl, and in some
things she was timorous ; she was apt to
scream at a rat and run away from a black-beetle
; but she would have undertaken the
week's railway journey, from the Atlantic to

VOL. I. B

the Pacific coast, by herself, with the utmost
equanimity, and would have set ojQT on a voyage
round the world far more serenely than she
would have faced a large cockroach. Still,
• while the role of the solitary and independent
traveller had no terrors, and even possessed
a certain charm, for her, she was not
sorry to find that, although she was alone in
the sense of not being under the protection of
any members of her family nor attached to any
party of friends, yet she would not be altogether
without escort, as Max Randolph happened
to be going by the same southward-bound
train that bore her from New York to Florida.
The Pullman ' buffet sleeping-car ' was
crowded from front to rear, each ' section '
packed with its pile of small hand-baggage. It
was only early December, too early for the
real rush to Florida to have commenced ; but
it was apparent from the aspect of the car

<¥

that the tide of northern travel had already
well begun to set southwards. It was evening ;
the lamps were lit and the windows closed ;
there was quite a cheerful, cosy, home-like look
about the interior of the car, which held out
ample promise of comfort for the Florida-bound
passengers, to whom this car was to be dining,
sleeping, dressing, and drawing-room for the
next two days.

Time's up ! ' observed the conductor smilingly,
as a delicate hint to the ladies who were
embracing and bidding each other goodbye.
Come ! hurry up ! ' he added more familiarly
to a knot of young men, who were hilariously
wringing each other's hands, and slapping each
other on the back, and blocking up the narrow
gangway.

Mr. Randolph had no farewells to make,
except so far as he took a light and friendly
share in Miss Preston's. She had a grandfather

B 2

and a cousin come to see her off; she was fond

of them both, but it was with smiles and not

with tears that she was parting from them.

There's somebody has the upper berth

in your section, my dear child,' observed her
grandfather disapprovingly, looking at a heap

of hand-baggage on the seat opposite to

hers.

(For the benefit of those of my readers who
have not enjoyed the pleasure of a journey in
an American Pullman ' sleeper,' let me explain
that, of the two seats which compose each
section,' the one facing the engine commands
the lower berth, whilst the passenger who is
seated back to the engine mounts to the upper
berth.)

I wish we had booked a whole section for
Violet,' continued her grandfather ; ' is it too
late to make a change ? '

Never mind, grandpa,' Miss Preston said

cheerfully ; ' I dare say it's some other girl,
Who may be a pleasant companion.'

It looks like a man's valise,' observed her
cousin Tom, throwing cold water on this comfortable
suggestion.

Come, time's up, father,' he added, in
obedience to the conductor's repeated intimation.
' You will be all right, Violet. I daresay
Randolph will see to your baggage and all
that.'

Yes, 111 look after ^ss Violet well,' mr.
Randolph assured them. Then there was a
confusion of hurried handshakings and kissings
and parting messages.

'Love to Granny.' 'Love to Rosemary.'
Write soon ! ' ' Goodbye ! ' and Violet Preston's
relatives, and various other passengers'
relatives and friends, took their departure.

The Englishmen descended from the car
just in time, before the train began to move ;

the Americans of course waited until it was
fairly in motion, and then some of them Angered
still until the very last moment that it was safe,
before they swung themselves from the steps of
the moving cars.

Violet Preston's heart was light, and her
face radiant with smiles, as she waved her hand
in farewell to her friends.

She was on her way to Florida, to spend
the winter with her dearest friend, Rosemary
Heath, whom she loved as a sister, and another
friend was by happy chance her escort. Mr.
Randolph and she were too frankly good friends
and comrades for her even to endeavour to disguise,
either from herself or from him, that it
was a happy chance, to her mind ; and with
the utmost simplicity and straightforwardness
she had expressed herself as ' so glad ' to find
that he too was going South that very evening.

She settled herself contentedly into her seat

amongst her various packages. Although she
had travelled a great deal, she had never attained
to the accomplishment of reducing her
impedimenta to a minimum. Violet Preston was
exceedingly feminine in many things ; and in
her lack of the faculty of condensing and
compressing all her small necessaries into one
receptacle she was the veriest woman — although
she envied those strong sisters who travel with
one valise, as happy man can so easily do. Miss
Preston had a collection of bags in assorted
sizes, a luncheon basket, and a bundle. Amongst
this array of her minor baggage she sat in state,
and looked up at Mr. Randolph with the sisterly
smile she usually kept ready for him. Max
Randolph, standing leaning his hand on the
back of the seat, smiled responsively down on
her. If there were just the faintest touch of
a little new shyness in her smile, a shade of
greater distance and deference than usual in

his free and easy air, it was only the most infinitesimal
shade, due to the new circumstances
in which this young man and woman found
themselves thrown together.

And where is your section ? ' inquired
Violet.

Eight at the other end of the car, but well
within call,' he added reassuringly.

I wonder who my fellow-traveller is,' she
said, looking at the valise on the opposite
seat.

'Not the fat man, it is to be hoped,' he
replied, casting an indicative glance in the
direction of a gentleman of fine aldermanic
proportions ; ' he'd fill up the whole section ! '

'Horrible thought! ' said Violet. 'If it is
he, my only hope is that he may spend his time
in the smoking-car. There certainly isn't room
for him and his portmanteau here. There's
room for you,' she added, with another sisterly

smile, drawing her basket to one side, as the
engineer was now putting on steam, and the
oscillation of the car made it awkward for those '
who were essaying to stand with steadfast
footing and graceful preservation of equilibrium.


Mr. Randolph sat down with alacrity.

So we are really off to Florida ! ' he observed.


'To Florida — and Rosemary.'

Oh yes ; Miss Eosemary of course is the
more important objective point. How does she
like Florida life?'

'Not very much, I fancy. She finds it
lonely. It is a very secluded life — very dull
for her'

Doesn't like wasting her sweetness on the
desert air, eh ? '

Her own people have settled in a very
lonely part. But, you know,' Miss Preston

continued in narrative tone, ' we Eose and I, are
going to stay at her uncle's place, West Grove
House, and when wq get there, I think she will
enjoy herself much more. For one thing — such
is feminine vanity — I think that my being with
her will make a little difference.'

Not impossible. I've heard of stranger
things.'

'And what will make even more difference,'
Yiolet added, with a quiet smile, ' is that the
uncle has got about twenty young men boarding
there.'

'Miss Eosemary will be in her element,
then,' he said. ' Twenty ? You'll have a good
time, won't you ? Ten apiece.'

'Why don't you join the party?' she inquired.
' I dare say Mr. Wentworth could take
you in.'

'Tail end of a queue of twenty?' he rejoined.
' No, thanks ! '

Why " tail end " ? ' she laughed. ' Why
not head? '

Why, certainly,' he agreed promptly ;
head's my place, isn't it ? ' and he softly
hummed the opening bars of ' See the Conquering
Hero comes ! ' under his breath.

That's the air for you ! ' said Violet, laughing
the pretty low laugh which was one of her
charms.

You always set me in my rightful place,'
he replied with a lazy sort of half-smile — as if
it was too much trouble to make it a whole one.

He was leaning back in his seat with his
usual air of careless nonchalance, and glanced
up from under his brows with a quietly
humorous under-glance that was as common
to him.

His secretive eyes — eyes which told no
story, yet not for the want of any tale to tell !
always seemed to hold 'hidden springs of

mirth ' in their depths. Sometimes the laugh
that lurked there was almost a sneer ; but, as a
general thing, the somewhat ironic humour in
Max Randolph's eyes hurt nobody, for it was
quite as likely to be at his own expense as at
anyone else's.

His superficial attitude was indolent and indifferent
; he walked through the world with a
chronic air of not seeing anything on his way
that was worth exciting himself about. This
crust of imperturbability broke up now and
then — though not many people had seen it
break up ; and of the very few who had, Violet
Preston was not one.

Mr. Randolph was passably good-looking,
though his best friends had never been heard
to call him handsome. His face was rather
long and rather thin, the cheeks slightly hollowed,
the general cast of his features of a 
actively American type ; and the intonation of

his voice also revealed his nationality, although
it had no faintest touch of what we know as
the ' Yankee twancr ' • it was rather the soft
trainante accent of the South. He was tall,
loner-limbed, of rather slight than stalwart
build, yet not lacking in strength, though the
strength was probably more nervous than muscular.
His dead brown hair, straight as an
Indian's, grew low on his forehead ; he had a
heavy brown moustache, and long, sleepy,
almond-shaped grey eyes, that did not often
open quite wide under their level brows.

Violet Preston's personal appearance ranked
far higher up in the scale of attraction than did
his. If he was not handsome, even in the report
of his friends, few even of her rivals questioned
her ricrht and title to beauty, though of
course there were those — chiefly women — who
did not admire her style.' Although she was,
as I have said, an English girl, she came of

Irish race on her mother's side ; and the traces
of her Irish mother's blood were clear in Violet's
lovely face, especially in the colouring, in the
contrast of her dark hair and lashes with her
deep blue eyes and exquisitely fair skin, fine asa
rose-leaf.

Max Randolph, an artist, and with an
artist's eye, admired her, but never waxed enthusiastic
about her charms. She thought Mm
not handsome, but nice — very nice.' Violet,
like most of her sisters and countrywomen,
would have found it very difficult to get on
without that adaptive and universally serviceable
adjective — ' nice ! '

On the whole, these two friends estimated
the degree and quality of each other's attractions
very fairly, neither overvaluing nor depreciating
their respective qualities.

They had not sat chatting many minutes
when the other occupant of the section appeared

upon the scene, with a deprecatory bow,
and a polite ' Excuse me, Madam ! ' He was
fortunately not the fat man ; he was long and
lean and lanthorn-jawed ; and albeit his voice
was low, his pure nasal accent was strong to
smite the ear.

Mr. Randolph eyed him without ill-will,
but with an air of impartially and judicially
deciding that he wished him somewhere else,
as the new-comer began turning over his portable
property, and to facilitate his movements
Max vacated his seat, but still stood close by.

Presently, further down the car, a child was
heard to set up a pitiful cry for ' bed,' and the
negro porter, tall and young and coal-black, ina
white calico jacket that made him look
blacker, began to pull down one of the ' berths '
that shut up so neatly into the ceiling, and to
haul out curtains and mattresses. Violet casta
casual glance in that direction, and Max

Eandolpli, promptly following her eye, needed
no other hint, but observed that it was about
time for him to betake himself to his own
camp, wished her a friendly good-night, and
sauntered away down the car.

The other occupant of the section also discreetly
betook himself off; and Miss Preston,
having attracted the attention of the ' proud
young porter,' and intimated to him that she
desired to have her berth made up, went forth
to grapple with the toilette difficulty — which is
the one and only drawback of Pullman car
travelling.

Violet Preston, however, was sufficiently
accustomed to nights on the cars to surmount
the difficulty gracefully. She had provided
herself with a dainty little pink embroidered
jacket, in which she looked as pretty as a
picture and as fresh as a rose, when she returned
from the ' Ladies' Toilette Room,' which

title dignifies a cupboard in which you could
not swing the tiniest kitten. The curtains all
along the car were bulCTinoj and waving into
eccentric curves, mutely eloquent of the struggles
with the toilette problem going on behind their
folds, as Violet made her way back along the
narrow passage between the rows of beds ; and
she had not been snugly ensconced in the curtained
recess of her berth many minutes when
a mighty scrambling and shuffling testified that
the stranger who was allotted as her compagnon
de voyage was mounting into the berth above
her ; his ascent being additionally evidenced by
the ocular demonstration of a pair of feet in
lucre crimson woollen socks dano-lincr for a

O DO

moment before the narrow opening in the
curtains before being drawn up to their destination.


Night and silence fell on the sleeping-car —
silence only broken by the grampus-like snorts

VOL. I. C

and snores of a deeply slumbering traveller—
for as ' every bean hath its black,' and every
rose its thorn, so every Pullman car has its
snore.

Violet pulled up the blind from her window
and looked out into the darkness. The sight
of the grey shadowy landscape, the dusky blots
and blurs of objects that were shapeless and
colourless in the obscurity, the black spectral
forms of the trees flying past, the distant lamps
glimmering faintly across dim fields — all had a
charm for her. She was in a mood to find a
charm in everything. She was fond of travelling ;
she loved Eosemary ; she was full of dreams of
the Sunny South. And she was on her way to
Fair Florida — to dear Eosemary, and with Max
Randolph to see her safely through the journey.
That was a part of the pleasure of the position
certainly. He would take good care of her,
she knew ; and, although there was a streak of

independence in her nature, yet lie felt it could
not be otherwise than altogether pleasant to betaken
care of by a friend and brother Hke Max
Randolph.

When, later on in the night, she was
awakened by a bang and a crash consequent
on the uncoupling of the car from one train,
and backing another train on to it more
violently than was necessary, she closed her
eyes again placidly. If there were anything
wrong. Max Randolph would come and rouse
her. In such an eminently desirable and
peaceful frame of mind, lulled by the rock and
rush of the train as it swept on its southward
way, she sank back into the sweet sleep of
youth, health, and hope.

c 2

CHAPTEE II.

SOUTHWARD HO !

In the morning Miss Preston awoke fresh and
happy. The toilette difficulty faced her again,
and she rose to meet it cheerfully. It is a
greater difficulty in the morning than overnight,
as all the women-folk in the car, getting
ready for breakfast, make a rush to avail themselves
of the severely limited toilette accommodation
at much about the same time ; and
Violet found the door of the dressing-room
besieged by several other ladies in more or less
dishevelled condition, variously armed with
divers articles of the toilette, one embracing a
comb and brush, another palpably secreting
beneath a shawl a toothbrush and sponge, while

from out of a small and bulging bag borne by
a third — who wore a woollen scarf tied on as a
hood — peeped what was evidently a beautifully
curled and braided head of hair.

Violet, hustled and hurried, and amiably
anxious to be obliging to her fellow-travellers,
sought in vain an opportunity of seclusion for
the brushing and plaiting of her long dark
hair ; and finally, as the porter had officiously
hastened to shut up her bed and take down her
curtains, she was reduced to resign herself to
the semi-publicity of the narrow slip of passage
at the drawing-room end of the car. There
Max Randolph, on his way from the smoking-car,
stowing away a pipe in his pocket, came
upon her suddenly, occupied, mermaid-like,
with a comb and pocket-glass, with her hair all
about her shoulders.

He had never known before how long and
how thick was that silky dark hair !

Returning to her own section, she bade the
porter put up the little table, ordered her
coffee and eggs, and enjoyed a solitary little
breakfast, as the fellow-occupant of the section,
with delicate consideration for the
probable feelings of a young lady travelling
alone, took his morning meal with an acquaintance
in another part of the car. Mr.
Randolph also breakfasted in his own quarters,
but immediately after breakfast came to make
ample inquiries after Violet's comfort and cheer
her — if she needed cheering — with a little
social conversation.

They had crossed the wide, grey, gleaming
waters of the Potomac, and had a view of the
great white cupola of the Washington Capitol,
rearing its snowy crown into the sky. Later
on they had left the city of Richmond — the
ex-capital of the Confederacy, teeming with
memories of the Lost Cause — behind. Then

the rest of the day passed in speeding through
neutral-tinted fields — grey, brown, and drab,
the warmest bits of the landscape being where
here and there the winter woods retained
touches of their autumnal colouring, those
streaks of red-russet and yellow looking the
richer by contrast with the burnt patches,
black and bare, whereon the frequent forest-fires
had devoured the brushwood, and left the
skeleton tj^-ees standing where the ' merry green
woods ' had been.

The passengers beguiled the time in the
usual ways. Most of the men who did not
play cards resorted to the smoking-car; the
women who were not reading paper-covered
novels did Berlin wool or crochet work ; and
Max Randolph and Violet Preston talked.

Max talked of himself a good deal ; he
always did ; he liked the subject, and so did
she ; and there was not much to say about the

landscape through which they were passing,
although it set them off on a train of reminiscences
of the gorgeous effects of the ' fall '
colouring on the Hudson river in general, and
of a certain picnic on its banks in particular.
And dinner-time came and went, and the
afternoon wore on, and the rain came down
and splashed and pattered on the windowpanes
; outside, the sky was grey and the landscape
looked desolate in the rain, and the only
little gleanings of interest to be gathered from
the outlook were when they passed through
villages, and all the inhabitants, white and
black, turned out to see the Florida express
pass, just as if they did not see it regularly
twice a day. And evening came, and the
lamps were lighted, and Violet did her best to
spoil her bright young eyes by reading a ' seaside
' novel by the dim light of the high lamp,
until Mr. Randolph came — and supper time.

Truffled sandwiches, shrimps and tomato
sauce — they sound good,' mused Violet, reading
from the bill of fare. ' I am getting a gourmand
! ' she laughed. ' I do believe that the
dominant thought in my mind for the last hour
has been what I would order for my supper.'

It's an important question, and there isn't
much else to think of,' said Max Randolph. ' I
recommend pickled oysters.'

His recommendation carried the day against
the rival temptations of the other delicacies on
the menu. After supper, when the little portable
table had been set and served and cleared,
he took up his seat for the evening in Violet's
section, and the legitimate occupant of that
seat, beholding, discreetly and delicately absented
himself, and made the third in a game
of ' cut-throat euchre ' at the other end of the
car, and left the pair of friends to talk the
short evening away in peace and comfort.

Many a time and oft these two had sat
together at dinner, or supper, or kmcheon-
party, had ridden, and driven, and danced
together, and perhaps ' sat out ' as many dances
as they had danced; had talked over most
things that are between heaven and earth, nay,
soaring beyond these limits, had discussed
their differing views of heaven itself.

Yet now the sense of being away from
home with Max Randolph, alone with hiui,
speeding by night and day to a new land, a
new life, under his sole care and escort, seemed
somehow to work a slight but subtle change,
to introduce a new element into their relationship,
although this new association was only to
endure for the brief period of the journey^South.

Max Randolph was always very attentive
to Violet Preston, yet not at all exclusively so.
He was attentive also to others ; perhaps he
flirted more or less with those others ; he did

not flirt with Miss Preston ; they were simply
good comrades. So frank and fraternal, indeed,
was their friendship that even the curious world
accepted it for just what it was. Few or none
talked about it,' in the sense of implying that it
was anything more than friendship, nor hinted
at orange-blossoms and bridal bells as a probable
crisis. One hopeless admirer of Mss Preston's,
indeed, naturally suspected that Randolph must
be a fellow-victim — did not see how it could be-otherwise
! and one woman had been known to
hint that Yiolet cherished a secret tendresse for
Max; but the world — their little world — in
general let Mr. Randolph and Miss Preston
alone as frankly and simply good friends.

Friendship between man and woman is not
so uncommon as those who are incapable of it
and they are many — honestly believe it to
be. To some natures, and those often the
most susceptible to other forms of affection, it

is an impossibility, and these naturally set it
down as a delusion or a fraud. Violet Preston
was one of the women who prove the possibility
of such friendship. She could be, and
had been, and more than once, as simply good
and true and loyal a friend to a man as to a
woman ; and how good a friend Violet could
be was known only to a few. First and foremost
amongst the few was Eosemary Heath, and
possibly amongst them also Max Randolph might
be counted ; but it was always difficult to find
out exactly what Max Randolph knew or
thought of anybody, more especially of any
woman. It was all but impossible to arrive at
the estimate he held in his secret heart of
even women in general, still more hopeless to
seek to gauge his full and true opinion of anyone
woman in particular.

Violet Preston knew about as little of Max
Randolph as anyone else ; she had often wondered

whether he was in love with anyone.
True, he always declared himself incapable of
love, talked of it as of an unknown Debatable
Land ; but Violet knew him well enough to
realise how little he allowed her or anyone else
to know of him, and sometimes she marvelled
how it was that he managed to be so reserved
and yet to seem so frank, that he could talk
so much about himself and yet tell so little.

So in the old way the second evening on
the cars wore away, and the 'good-night' came,
and Violet frankly acknowledged to herself
that it had been quite a pleasant day.

The next morning they were still running
through flat and monotonous country, having
passed through the most picturesque part of
the route, the belt of cypress swamps, during
the night. Now, however, the red earth of
Georgia had given place to the white sand of
Florida. White banks and stretches of sand

glared like snow in the morning sun. The
bare skeleton trees of the wintry North, which
had been growing gradually fewer and further
between, now were seen no more ; they had
given place to the evergreen ' yellow pines ' of
the South, unlike their northern brethren, tall
and slim and straight, with their graceful
feathery crowns, so fragile, so erect, it
seems a wonder how those slender stems can
support even that light and airy leafy plume.
Here and there were tropical touches in the
landscape now ; here the grey ' Spanish moss '
of the South hung in long trails from the
branches, and there a palmetto tree stood tall
in its stately grace above the autumn-coloured
brushwood. There seemed something odd and
incongruous in the meeting and mingling of the
palms and the tropical moss and the fresh green
of the young pines with those gold and brown
and russet hues that flecked the underwood.

They passed occasional groups of little
wooden cottages, each of which stood up on four
or more legs, and the inmates, who all turned out
to see the train pass, grew blacker and blacker
as they sped further and further south. Little
black Copies, all teeth and eyes, and pigs, all
long legs and immense snouts, with very little
bacon on their gaunt ribs, tumbled in the mud
together.

Presently there was a sudden stoppage,
when no station, no settlement, not so much asa
shed was in sight to account for it. Incident
was scarce on this journey, aud two or three
gentlemen left the car and went forward along
the train to see if peradventure there might be
some tiny scrap of excitement to break the
monotony, and to give themselves a little
prestige by bringing back the news to the
select and aristocratic retreat of the ' Pullman
Sleeper ' which occupied the rear of the train.

It next occurred to two or three of the
ladies that there was no particular reason why
they too should not go forward and investigate
for themselves. Violet was one of these
daughters of Eve. They passed forward
through a parlour car, then through an ordinary
car, and on, forward still, through a smoking-car
— the floor of which was uncarpeted, but its
occupants had done their modest best towards
carpeting it with orange-peel and banana-skins.

The occupants at present were only a
coloured family — a good-humoured father, an
ebony mother in a huge bandanna turban, and
three or four elfish-looking children — the white
passengers having presumably gone with the
crowd in search of a sensation, however slight.

Violet followed the other ladies, forward
still, and eventually arrived in a baggage car.
There was not much baggage in it ; but here
were some of the passengers of inquiring mind,

amongst them Max Randolph ; and, looking
out of the great open door in the side of the
car, Violet saw half-a-dozen or so of the train
officials, distinguishable by their uniform, standing
round the object of interest — neither more
nor less than an unlucky cow, which had been
caught up on the cow-catcher, and been carried
a mile or so before it had struggled or fallen
off.

The poor beast was injured ; and there was
a discussion going on as to whether it ought or
ought not to be killed, and whether the railway
company was liable for damages — a discussion
far less loud and lively than it would have been
in almost any country of Europe. As Violet
surveyed the group standing round and debating
the matter with characteristic American
composure and coolness, she could not help
thinking, and remarking to Max Randolph,
How Frenchmen and Italians would have

VOL. I. D

gesticulated and uplifted their voices and talked
all at once ! '

The unhappy cow was lying on the bank
with its meek head upraised, and looking round
with large, wistful, pathetic eyes as it wondering
what had happened to it. Violet Preston, sorry
for the poor animal, albeit not emotional nor
exclamatory, stepped forward to lean and look
closer. While she stood in the doorway, the
train gave a slight preparatory jolt — a very
slight one, but as she was standing leaning forward
on the extreme edge of the platform. Max
Randolph flung his arm lightly round her and
drew her back, to save her from the chance of
a fall — the floor of the car being of a sufficient
height above the ground to make such a fall
unpleasant, even if not dangerous.

Take care, Miss Violet ; it's never safe to
stand so near the edge,' he said, drawing her
back into the car.

His arm had not been round her for three
seconds ; it was the merest triviality of a passing
incident ; yet somehow it did not pass out
of Violet's mind so quickly as such a trifle
should have done. It left a vague and misty
kind of impression — the sum of which was that
it was very nice to be taken care of by — somebody
— anybody ! perhaps especially pleasant
when the somebody was a trusted friend and
comrade like Max Randolph.

A couple of hours later they arrived in
Jacksonville — which may be called the metropolis
of Florida, its centre of traffic and
commerce, although Tallahassee is its political
capital.

With swinging engine-bell clanging out a
noisy proclamation of their approach, they
dashed through the outskirts of the town, and
the great train slackened along the platform of
the Jacksonville ' depot.' Mr. Randolph loaded

D 2

himself with Miss Preston's small packages, and
they descended from the car into the hubbub
of yelling ' toutes ' for the different hotels.
Violet, paying no attention to the babel of
Everett House ! ' ' Carlton Hotel ! ' ' This way
for the St. James ! ' ' Here you are for the boat ! '
&c., looked out eagerly among the crowd ; yet
Max Randolph was the first to catch sight ot
the face she sought.

There's Miss Eosemary,' he said, as a charming
figure slipped quickly through the crowd
towards them — followed by many appreciative
glances as she passed, the men looking at her
face, the women at her dress.

Violet Preston was not a girl of the ' gushing '
sort, and Eosemary Heath was still less that
way inclined ; but their two fair faces flushed
and lit up with pure delight as they met, and
they kissed each other with hearty whole-souled

welcome and affection, while Max Randolph
looked on somewhat enviously, and presently-observed
—

Really, this sort of thing makes one wish
to be a woman ! '

CHAPTEE III.
ON THE ST. John's river.

Friendship is constant in all other things
Saye in the office and affairs of Love ! '

Violet Preston and Eosemary Heath, fast
friends since their earliest schooldays, had
always made up their minds that they at least
would be constant in those affairs as in all others.
They had been mere children when they made
their pact of friendship, an alliance never yet
broken by even a passing ruffle of disagreement ;
now they were mature young women who had
well attained to years of discretion, and had
both left their first love-stories some years behind
; and no man had ever come between
them ! as they often fondly and proudly said.

Possibly one reason for this satisfactory state of
things was that few men who admired the one
found much to admire in the other, so opposite
were their styles of beauty.

Yiolet, fair as a lily, with a delicate bloom
like the heart of a blush-rose on her cheeks,
with deep blue eyes and silky smooth dark hair,
was in features, as well as in colouring, a striking
contrast to Eosemary, of whom a rival had
given the brief but unflattering signalement
Need hair, black eyes, and tallow cheeks ! '
Certainly her eyes were of a brown so dark it
was pardonable for a casual observer to call
them black ; her hair, tawny in the shadow,
shone red-gold in the light ; and her complexion
was of that pure creamy white, without a tinge
of pink, which some people call * waxen,'
thereby giving a chance to the hearer to pass
the epithet on as ' tallowy ' without too great a
strain on conscience.

But there was likeness as well as contrast
between the two girls. They were about the
same height, and although Violet was a little
the slighter and thinner of the two, yet their
figures were on the whole sufficiently similar
for them to wear each other's jackets and
mantles. From long association and affection
they had caught one or two tricks of manner
and expression alike. They had some similar
tastes ; they went out sketching together ; they
sang duets, and played each other's accompaniments
; and both had in their schooldays
written what it pleased them to call poems.
They were fond, though in differing ways and
degrees, of romance and novelty, of dress,
dancing, and society. And there all likeness
ended. Beyond this border-land of sympathetic
tastes, their characters, utterly different, were
as completely in opposition as the colouring of
their hair and eyes.

They had plenty to say to each other now,
as they had been separated for some months.
Eosemary's parents — that is, her father and
stepmother, ' her people,' as she habitually called
them — belonged to the large and ever-increasing
colony of resident English in Florida ; they
had, unluckily for her, being tempted by a bargain
in the shape of a fine young grove, elected
to settle in one of the more sparsely populated
parts of the State, where they led a very quiet
and. lonely life, to Eosemary's exceeding discontent.
Fortunately for her, the locality, which
certainly lay low and had more swamp around
it than is desirable for health, appeared not to
agree with her; she had ailed and drooped,
and it was arranged that she should spend the
winter with her uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs.
Whit worth, also transplanted Britons, who resided
in a healthier part of Florida, and led what
seemed by all report to be a much pleasant

life, and with them she was to have the added
comfort of her friend Violet's companionship.
It was in order to meet Violet on her arrival
from the North that Eosemary had joined a
party of friends on a trip to Jacksonville.

I would have come to you at Pine Ridge
Violet said affectionately.

Well, I believe you actually would have
made even that sacrifice to friendship for me,
Vi. But I wouldn't have had you there. Pine
Ridge ? ugh ! There isn't a ridge in sight !
It's as flat as a tea-tray. I was so miserable
there that nothing could have made it much
better for wien and it would have been all the
worse for you ; there would have been two
victims instead of one ! What's Max Randolph
doing down here ? ' she added more cheerfully.

Going to look after orange groves, I
believe.'

Like everyone else here. I wonder how

soon you'll hate the very name of oranges as
much as I do ? '

I am very fond of oranges. I don't think
I shall hate them very soon.'

Well, you are a more contented disposition
— more resigned to life — than I am,' said
Eosemary, ' so let us hope you won't get sick
of this Sunny South so soon as I did ! By the
way, how is your little Southern friend, Mamie
Otis?'

Much as usual ; and I was just going to
tell you she promised to write to greet me here
I told her to address "P.O., Jacksonville." I
wonder, have we time to go to the post-office
before dinner ? '

Lots of time,' replied Eosemary leisurely.
Where's Mr. Max ? He might go With us, or
instead of us. Of course he's off somewhere
out of reach — just like a man ! Never in the
way when he's wanted.'

So without escort, which, however, was not
at all needed under the circumstances, the two
girls set off to walk to the post-office. Jacksonville
is a Southern, but not a very tropical-looking,
city ; its orange-trees are mostly somewhat
stumpy, and its bananas weedy ; it is building
up fast — so fast that there is an air of sawdust
and shavings about it ; the loose, deep, heavy
sand of which its roads are composed prevents
walking from being a pleasure, and makes
driving a penalty ; but it can boast of beautiful
avenues, overarched by splendid evergreen
oaks, of pretty and picturesque houses, of
hotels and boarding-houses without number,
convenient street-cars, and good shops, into the
windows of which Eosemary cast interested
glances as they passed, though Violet, fresh from
New York, was indifferent to their allurements.

Arrived at the post-office, they found,
extending from the window whence letters

were delivered, half way up the street, a
solid queue of men, closely packed one behind
the other in Indian file, waiting, with the
stoical patience of the American, for their
letters, and pressing forward slowly, inch by
inch, as one after another the foremost of the
file obtained their budgets and moved on.

Oh, Eose ! ' said Violet with mild dismay,
' it will take us an hour to get up to the
window ! *

My dear Vi, it will take us exactly half a
minute. Do you forget that we are in the
South ? Come along ! '

And Eosemary coolly took the file in flank,
and calmly cut across them to the window,
every man making way with respect for the
ladies. The foremost man of the procession,
who was about to present his card at the window,
bowed and drew back, giving place to
Violet, so that she got her letter immediately.

I think,' she observed with a contented
smile, as the two girls walked away homewards,
'that I shall enjoy Florida life ! I like
the Southern ways so much.'

A little cheap chivalry is all very well,'
replied Eosemary, ' but give me theatres, shops,
good solid bricks and mortar ! '

• •••••••

The great river steamer was holding its
steady and stately way southwards, up the St.
John's Eiver (which flows north, so that ' down
South ' is ' up the river,' which seems unnatural
at first to the tourist new to these regions).

It was evening ; the saloon supper was
over, and on the deck, amongst many other
passengers, sat a well-contented trio, Rosemary,
Violet, and Max Randolph. Their ways
lay southward still, and still in the same direction,
the goal for which he was bound being
only a few miles distant from West Grove

House, the residence of Eosemary's relatives.
So here was Mr. Randolph still in attendance.

Miss Heath's friends in Jacksonville had
expressed their satisfaction that the young
ladies should have an old friend of Miss Preston's
as escort on their voyage. Violet was
glad ; Eosemary, who only found life endurable
with a man or men at hand to offer petits soins,
was glad. Max Randolph would have been
less than man if he were not glad to take two
such fair charges under his care ; so everybody
was pleased, and a happy trio sat on the deck
in the dusk. Max dividing his devotion pretty
equally between the two girls, as he usually
did — although if the attention he paid to them
were equal in degree, it was different in kind.
There was a flavour of flirtation in his manner
to Eosemary, while to Yiolet he talked more asa
friend and comrade.

It was a beautiful, balmy Southern night ;

they had left the North and the winter far
behind. Great bright ' stars as large as lilies '
were entangled in thin vaporous veils of cloud,
that floated like filmy wreaths in the purple
depths of the sky ; like fellow stars fallen on
the land, the yellow lamps shone out here and
there on the distant shores, as the boat held its
way along the broad majestic river ; and from
the tall black funnel showers of red flaming
sparks flashed and flew backwards through the
darkness.

Eosemary and Violet sat leaning against the
bulwarks, looking out across the water at the
far-off lamps and dusky shores. Their escort
had drawn his campstool near to them, so
that he had a good view of the two pale profiles
dimly fair against the sky.

'I don't think anything could be much
better than this,' he observed in a kind of
musing content.

There are some good hours in life,' said
Violet with a little dreamy happy sigh.

A few ! ' said Eosemary demurringly.

A few ? ' Max Randolph echoed. ' I
should have thought you found a good many,
Miss Eosemary. It always seems to me that
life's a sort of triumphal progress to you.
Have you been on the war-path lately ? How
many scalps of the aborigines hang at your
girdle ? '

None — for a good reason.'

Why so ? '

Because the aborigines are bald ! ' she
replied gravely.

Can't take them by the forelock, eh ? ' he
said.

You must be getting hungry for a scalp,
Eosie,' laughed Violet.

I am,' she admitted freely ; and then suddenly
turning to Max, she added —

VOL. I. E

Take oiF your hat ! '

Max obeyed, disclosing a sleek dark brown
head of hair, not so closely cropped as it might
have been.

I see it's there,' Eosemary observed lightly.

« What's there ? '

Your scalp ; it's to be had ! '

For the taking ? ' suggested Yiolet.

No, it isn't,' he replied decidedly. ' It
sounds rude to contradict a lady ; but how can
my scalp be there when you took it long ago,
Miss Eosemary ? It seems to be here ; but
this is a world where " nothing is, but all
things seem." It is only the appearance of a
scalp you see ! '

A shadowy triumph,' Yiolet remarked.

I'd test its reality if I had a practical
tomahawk,' said Eosemary, more briskly than
usual.

Small doubt you would,' he observed drily.

Hearts are all in your line, Eose,' said lier
friend, *but I think you might let heads
alone ! '

That's right. Miss Violet ; stand up forme
! Save my head ! ' said Max meekly.

Nought was never in danger ! ' she laughed ;
and you said just now that there was no head
there ! '

Have you known me so long, and so welland
not found out that I seldom speak the
truth ? '

'I don't know you very well,' demurred
Violet. ' Nobody does, I think.'

'Not Miss Eosemary?' he rejoined, with
the touch of latent irony in his tone a little
more perceptible.

I never took the trouble to study you,'
said Eosemary indolently. ' I always let
sphinxes and riddles alone.'

I think I'll go overboard and hide my

E 2

tIBRARt

uNWERsrn OF \vv\nm

head!' he observed in mock discomfiture.
I'm sure I would — only I haven't got my life-preserver
on.'

The girls laughed, Eosemary a little scornfully,
Violet in the facile rippling mirth of
youth and happiness. Eosemary laughed, as
she spoke, in a rich contralto, unusually deep
for a woman, and sweet as the nightingale's
rich liquid notes. It was a voice not to be
forgotten when once heard, remarkable for its
full timbre and its peculiar penetrating sweetness.


The night-breeze was cooling, the evening
wearing on ; the deck was being rapidly deserted
as the passengers retired to their staterooms
to woo sweet sleep ; and Eosemary and
Violet soon followed the example of the majority,
leaving Max Randolph almost alone on
the deck.

The girls, of course, had to have their usual

nightly gossip — the ' traditional back-hair chat.'
If they had been talking all day, there would
never fail to be something left over for the last
talk at night. They had to speak low, in order
not to take the occupants of the adjoining
state-rooms into their confidence, and whilst
they simultaneously talked and brushed and
combed their long hair, the limited dimensions
of the apartment which they shared compelled
one to get up and sit on the top berth to keep
out of the other's way.

Nice having Max with us, isn't it ? ' said
Violet in her usual frank way. They often
called him ' Max ' behind his back, but always
formally ' Mr. Randolph ' to his face.

'Yes, it is,' agreed Eosemary as frankly,
adding, in a tone which carried its full weight
of meaning —

Oiu: Max is appreciative ! '

Of W5 ? ' laughed Yiolet.

Yes ; it would be no recommendation if
he were too appreciative of other people ! '

I think he has a general appreciation of
feminine charms in his quiet way,' observed
Violet.

He certainly always seems to find an
attraction where we are,' said Eosemary.

'He divides his attention pretty fairly, I
think,' rejoined Violet, with a little — ever so
little — note of interrogation in her tone.

Yes — it's seldom that a man seems to like
us both so equally, so utterly different as weare,'
observed Eosemary. ' I sometimes wonder
if he admires one of us a little more than the
other.'

Which is it, do you think ? ' Violet asked,
on the impulse of the moment ; it was the last
thing she had intended to say.

'Didn't you find out on the way down,
when you had him all to yourself in the cars ? '

Why, you know Max and I are just good
friends, and we only talk like friends,' Violet
answered, sincerely enough.

'Shall I find out which he likes best?'
Eosemary asked, after a minute's pause.

If you like,' Violet consented. ' But I
don't think Max Randolph's a man to admire
anybody over much. He thinks more of himself
than of anybody else.'

jSTo ! ' exclaimed Eosemary, with sardonic
surprise. ' Astonishing man ! rara avis among
his sex ! Thinks of himself before anybody
else, does he ? Why, Vi, he ought to be

Painted upon a pole, and under-writ,
Here you may see — a marvel ! '

I don't think as badly of men as you do,
Eose,' said Vi.

All the worse for you, my child,' interposed
her friend.

I have known good men and true,' Violet
continued staunchly. *I think men are as
faithful and good as women — sometimes! '

So are swans black and roses blue — sometimes,'
retorted Rosemary.

Meanwhile the subject of their conversation
was sitting not far off from them in the saloon,
absorbed in a conversation of his own with a
fellow-passenger, although they did not hear
his voice, for Max Randolph, like many of his
countrymen, habitually spoke in a subdued
tone. He was ' talking Florida ' from a business
point of view, as a field for investment, discussing
the probabilities of profits to be derived
from groves, town-lots, railways, and so forthwith
one of the ' land agents ' who are as sands
upon the sea-shore in Florida, who naturally
regard every tourist as a possible investor.
This gentleman had scented almost at once in
Max Randolph one more of that numerous

class of travellers he knew so well, and whose
ways and means it was part of his business to
study — another of the men who come South to
look round,' and see if there is anything to be
picked up on Tom Tiddler's ground, and generally
find that there is nothing whatever to be
picked up,' but something to be got by dint
of hard dinner.

CO o

Like the majority of men who go to Florida,
regarding it with any other eyes than those of
the mere pleasure-tourist or health-seeker. Max
Randolph had not much money, and he wanted
to make some somehow. Another, although
secondary, object he had, the pursuance of his
art. He intended to make sketches and studies
of Florida scenery. Thus much Violet Preston
knew, in common with the rest of his friends.
Indeed, she knew as much as most of them, no
more, and no less. She knew the main facts
of his history.

Southern born and bred, with a good share
of Southern pride, a passion for art, and an
empty purse, he had moved to Boston too late
to be entirely convinced of the generality of
the hub of the universe ' ; early enough to pickup
some Boston ways of thought, and a fair
amount of Boston literary culture, though even
in his happiest days there he never failed to
feel that ' There is a world elsewhere ! ' Then
he went out West, where he perceived still
more clearly the far-sweeping scope of the
world outside, and realised more and more
fully, as day by day he looked upon the boundless
expanse of the rolling prairie and heaven-scaling
peaks of the snow-topped mountains,
the vast and all but limitless range of Life and
Nature ; and the civilised ' world ' of his youth
gradually grew less in his eyes, till it seemed
but a little island in the vast sea of life.

There, in the great, wild, free West, he

tried his hand in the mines, and on the ranches,
lived among hunters, gold-diggers, cattle-men,
roved as they roved, and, like them, carried
his life in his hand, his revolver in his pocket,
wore his hair long and his boots above his
knees.

Although, after a time, he gave up this
nomad existence — the mines having yielded
him no gold — and returned to civilisation, still
the memory of that dip into the wild, free
life of the frontier abided with him ; its
aroma clung round him and took its part
in the moulding of his character, and to it
he often looked back as not the least agreeable
of the mixed experiences of his roving
life.

Next he determined to spend a few years
in the Old World, studying art. He went to
England, where he was well received — ^^nay
more, it may fairly be said that he was petted

and made much of, as an American is apt to
be, and where lie first met and made friends
with Violet Preston. He had a couple of
pictures hung in the Royal Academy ; then,
satisfied with his success, he moved on to Paris
and to Some, as a good American is bound todo
; and Max Randolph's studio became, for
the season, a place to visit in each city. Intime
he paid another passing visit to London,
on his way back to New York, where he and
Miss Preston met again, and where he took up
his quarters for awhile. He had no real home,
but made himself at home everywhere, and
was as settled in New York as he would have
been anywhere else, until the roving fit seized
him again, and took the shape of the Florida
fever ; and, viewing the orange groves in the
double light of landscapes and investments, he
packed his portmanteau and started off.

Thus much everybody knew of him ; and

it was about all that anybody knew. Everything
that concerned his private life, and his
loves — ^if he had any — remained under lock
and key ; and no one yet had picked the lock
nor found the key.

CHAPTEE IV.

WEST GROVE HOUSE.

West Grove House was one of the many
establishments in Florida, whose advertisements,
figuring in our London papers, osier an
answer to the vexed question, ' What to do
^ with our Boys ? ' — one of the places where
young Englishmen are taken in and done for —
that is, are taught practical orange culture, if
they will learn, and put in the way of making
good bargains in land, if they will buy. Mr.
Wentworth was one of the ' real estate agents '
whose name is legion in Florida. He had
plenty of land to sell on commission, and was
willing to let his young friends have the benefit
of his advice in the matter of purchase. Also,

as he had a house too large for himself and
wife, he furnished them with board and lodging
for a reasonable consideration.

West Grove House was a big wooden,
barrack-like building, run up in the usual
Southern style, with ample open-air accommodation
in the shape of broad piazzas running
round three sides of it, and balconies above the
piazzas, so that no one need ever be driven to sit
indoors unless they chose. Its foundations, of
course, were above instead of under ground, a
platform resting on timber supports three or four
feet high, affording room for the playful earthquake
to give a roll and heave beneath it with
as little damage as possible, and also room for
broken bottles, old tin cans, and rubbish of all
sorts, to be thrown under the house, besides
still leavings room for the succession, to nervous
temperaments, of a spacious and safe retreat
for tramps, lunatics, and mad dogs.

64 LOVE IN IDLENESS

The house stood in the midst of an orange
grove, of course, and, equally of course, it was
close to a lake. In that land of lakes, the
Orange belt of Florida, no one would invest as
much capital as was represented by West Grove
House and its surrounding grounds, unless the
site of the estate was near a lake. Indeed,
West Grove House was favoured by the proximity
of four lakes ; it lay within easy reach of
one of the great lakes of the country ; it fronted
on a middle-sized lake, and had a back view of
two little lakes.

The room allotted to Violet and Eosemary
was a large corner room, with two windows
at right angles, from one of which they had a
view, across the orange grove and a fringe of

pine-trees, to the South lake, and from the other,
across a wider stretch of grove, to a thicker wood
of pine-trees, through which in the distance
broke silvery gleams of the largest lake.

There was no garden ; the house was simply
set down in the middle of the grove. There ^
were no flower-borders, and the scanty grass
which qualified the level stretch of sand in
front of the house to be raised to the dignity of
a 'lawn' looked unhappy, brown and sallow
and sickly ; any respectable British cow would
have disdained its quality ; while as for quantity,
there was a good deal more sand than grass —
the usual white Florida sand. Except on the
south side of the house, there was no grass at
all. North and east and west the white sand
had it all its own way. The white sandy soil
of the Florida pine-lands is by no means so
poor and barren as it looks. It niiofht be
mistaken for mere desert sea-sand by a superficial
glimpse ; but, scratch that sun-bleached
surface, and a layer of richer soil lies underneath,
and in this white sand the orange groves
flourish.

VOL. I. p

The trees, scattered at intervals of some
thirty or forty feet around West Grove House,
were all in splendid condition, their foliage of a
deep, rich, glossy green, their branches bowed
down beneath the weight of ruddy ripe golden
fruit.

How beautiful they look ! ' exclaimed
Violet admiringly. ' I do think an orange-tree
is the loveliest of trees. And what a pretty
view altogether ! '

Yes, it's pretty for a day,' said Eosemary.
It's prettier than oitr place ; and then a view
always does seem prettier when you and I see
it together. But even with you, Vi, I shan't
admire this landscape very long. After all,
it's only the regular Florida outlook — flat as a
tea-tray — oranges, pine-trees, lake ; lake, pine-trees,
oranges — the sort of thing that always
ought to have sunset or moonlight turned
on it.'

Well, we shall have sunsets and moonlight,'
Violet replied cheerfully ; ' but, " for
mine own poor part," I think it looks pretty
well in the. morning sunshine. I fancy I shall
be a long time tiring of it. I like the house,
too ; everything looks so sweet and clean and
comfortable.'

Here Mrs. Wentworth made her appearance
a comely matron, still on the ri.]^ht side of
middle-age, with a certain likeness to her lovely
niece, Rosemary in general features, in the
shape of her dark eyes, and the growth and
Avave of her hair. But the hair was nut-brown,
without a tinge of the red-gold sheen of Rosemary's
; the face it shaded was larger, fuller,
squarer, than Eosemary's tapering oval, which
'lessened in perfect cadence' from broad low
brow to dainty chin ; and the expressions of
aunt and niece were entirely different. There
was nothing dreamy, nothing restful, nothing

f2

languid, in Mrs. Wentworth's keen, kindly eyes,
firm, good-humoured mouth, and brisk energy
of manner.

Well, girls, are you nearly ready for
dinner ? ' she inquired. The visitors had only
that morning reached West Grove House, and
had not yet left their room, to which they had
been straightway shown on their arrival, and
where they had been resting a little, unpacking
a little, and, of course, talking all the
time. Only that morning, too, their ways and
Max Randolph's had parted, but he was not
very far off ; he had repaired to the home of a
lately-settled friend, a few miles the other
side of the South Lake, with whom he intended
taking up his quarters, at least for a
time.

Mrs. Whit worth found the girls quite ready
for dinner, and for the introduction to the other
members of the household, none of whom,

with the exception of Mr. Wentworth, they had
yet seen, and concerning whom they cherished
some mild curiosity.

A dozen young men were hanging about
the large, bare, central hall, which ran from the
front door to the back door of West Grove
House, various sitting and sleeping, dining and
smoking rooms opening off either side of it ;
and as Mrs. Wentworth, followed by the two
new arrivals, descended the stairs, there was a
general doffing of hats — hats amongst which,
as Violet observed, the ' chimney-pot,' beloved
of the British heart, was the only style unrepresented.
There where wide awakes, Glen-garry,
bullocks, Panama — anything and
everything but the familiar ' chimney-pot ' of
home.

Ah, my hungry flock, all ready and waiting
? ' exclaimed Mrs. Wentworth. Immediately,
at the sound of her voice, there was a prodigious

trampling and clattering on the bare
boards, as in from the south piazza, and in
from the east piazza, and in from the backyard,
came trooping more young men, at least
a dozen more. The whole company filed in
after the ladies, and took their seats at a long
table which extended from end to end of the
large dining-room. Mrs. Wentworth placed the
two girls one on either side of Mr. Wentworth,
and took her own seat at the side, about the
middle of the table, where she could, as she
remarked, ' command the situation.'

Personal and particular introduction of the
newcomers to so large a party was of course
impossible ; but, while the soup was being
served, Mrs. Wentworth performed a perfunctory
kind of presentation of her guests to their
immediate neighbours.

Mr. Conyers, my niece, Miss Heath ; and
Miss Preston, Mr. Tregelva.'

Whereon the young men addressed bowed
low, and the girls smiled their sweetest.

After the soup, came fish — fried black bass,
and an excellent fish too.

Staples caught this, didn't he ? ' said Mr.
Wentworth.

A voice halfway down the table was heard,
in a modest and somewhat melancholy intonation,
to disclaim the honour. .

Christie caught it. I was lying in the
bottom of the boat.'

There was a laugh at this ; evidently
lying in the bottom of the boat was considered
an eminently characteristic position for the
speaker.

Then a large dish, on which reposed a fine
roast bird resembling a turkey, vais placed
upon the table.

You won't guess what this is, Miss Preston
? ' said the host.

An ostrich ? ' Violet hazarded a conjecture.

It's a sand-crane. The butcher didn't
come to-day, and Mrs. Wentworth was in
despair because there was nothing to eat.
Luckily, Tregelva shot this crane. I hope you'll
find it good.'

Sand-crane is very good,' observed Mr.
"Tregelva. ' White crane isn't ; but the grey
sand-crane is a good eating bird.'

And indeed the sand-crane was pronounced
excellent, having a flavour between a pheasant
and a turkey. It was a fine large bird, too,
which was lucky, as it was the piece de resistance
— the only other viand perceptible to the
naked eye being a very scraggy bone of beef
literally a bone — which reposed on a side-table.


For dessert they had oranges, of course.

I meant to have had some guavas to-day,'
Mrs. Wentworth remarked. ' Never mind ;

we'll have some after our coffee. It isn't the
thing, of course ; but I don't see why fruit
shouldn't taste as good after coffee as before.'


Dessert over, the party flocked out on to
the south piazza, all but a few of them, for
whom the smoking-room had greater charms
than sunshine and feminine society. The piazza
was long and wide, and liberally supplied with
armchairs, rocking-chairs, and folding-chairs,
besides a hammock and a swing-chair suspended
from the roof In these various seats the regiment
of young men promptly disposed themselves,
gallantly leaving three of the easiest
rocking-chairs in a group for the ladies.

The piazza looked across the lawn, dotted
with orange-trees starred with their golden
fruit, past a fringe of tall slim pines, oleander
and magnolia-trees, to the blue, shining lake ;
the sun's blaze was tempered by a gentle, balmy

breeze, and light gossamer veils of cloud
floated in the azure depths of the sky. The
chairs were very comfortable ; the coffee, which
was presently handed round, was very good ;
the young men were most of them of personable
and prepossessing appearance — taking a
general view of them, they were a ' well setup,'
manly, and gentlemanly-looking company.
Altogether the two girls felt, and had sufficient
cause for feeling, content.

Now for our guavas ! ' said Mrs. Whit-worth.
' Who'll go across to the East Grove
and pick them ? Don't all speak at once ! ' she
added somewhat drily. The advice was unnecessary,
if not ironical ; the company manifested
not the slightest inclination to ' all speak at
once.'

Staples, you go ! ' the hostess added after
a pause, turning upon a young man who was
lying rather than sitting in a limp attitude, with

bis head sunk forward on his breast, in a
reclining chair.

Hadn't Treo^elva better g^o ? ' this gentleman
demurred. ' Tresjelva's fond of nuavas.'

Ye — vest assented Mr. Treo-elva, who had
a soft, slow, drawling intonation, * but it spoils
the flavour unless some other fellow picks them.'

Quite so,' agreed Mrs. Wentworth. ' Therefore,
somebody please go.'

I'll go,' said a tall young fellow, with dark
laucrhinrr eves and a izood humoured mouth,
rising with unexpected alacrity.

That's right, Christie. Staples, you go
and help him ! ' said the lady automatically.
Mr. Staples yielded ; he gathered himself up
with a reluctant but resigned air from the
luxurious depths of his lounging-chair, and
went.

You haven't got your flock in very good
training, Aunt Emma,' observed Eosemary

sotto voce ; ' there is not what I should call a
stampede to execute your bidding.'

*Eather cruel. Miss Heath,' languidly interposed
Mr. Tregelva, whose ears apparently
were long ; ' it doesn't take three to pick
guavas.'

They do what they're told,' Mrs. Whit-worth
replied with brisk decisiveness to Rosemary's
remark. ' They have to. Some of them
require a good deal of telling.'

Mrs. Whit worth,' said a handsome young
man, looking up leisurely and speaking without
a smile, ' when have you told me to do anything
that I haven't done it ? '

Don't be argumentative, Conyers ! ' she
replied ; ' that's your great fault.'

A general laugh attested that this had hit
a blot.

Presently Messrs. Christie and Staples
returned with a basket of guavas, both looking

very warm, Christie smiling, Staples depressed,
Mr. Tregelva was dispatched to fetch plates
and fruit-knives, and, probably anxious to
redeem the general character of the company,
hastened cheerfully on the errand.

The guavas were excellent, fresh and ripe,
looking like peachy-checked apples, but with a
delicious flavour all their own, when the ruddy-golden
rind was cut through into the luscious,
pink and creamy pulp within, which
seemed still warm from the sun's kiss. They
were the first fresh guavas gathered from the
tree which Violet had ever tasted, and even
this trifling; detail added a pleasing: touch to a
situation which, she and Eosemary had already
made up their minds, was an agreeable one.
To Violet there was additional satisfaction in
the reflection that her friend, Max Randolph,
was not far ofl" — only on the other side of that
lake — and that he would probably call to pay

his respects that evening, lor was this reflection
altogether indifferent to Eosemary. Max would
be one man the more, and one who already-appreciated
her charms.

In the evening — that is to say, soon after
the six o'clock tea, which, with one o'clock
dinner, was the order of the day at West
Grove House — Mr. Randolph duly put in an
appearance, and was introduced to Mrs. Whit-worth,
and made himself agreeable to her
according to his lights — not that general agreeably
was by any means Max Randolph 's/b?'^£? ;
but though he seldom said pretty things or civil
things, or put himself at all out of his way to
please, there were very few women who did
not like Max Randolph, and Mrs. Wentworth
was evidently going to be no exception to the
rule.

The ladies were in the parlour, as a light
shower and rising breeze made the piazza

somewhat cool and damp for a lounging-place.
The parlour was large, white walled, w^iite-
ceiled, simply furnished, and scantily ornamented,
but comfortable and home-like. All the
chairs were easy ; books and papers" lay about
temptingly on the tables, and there was a piano,
and a goodly pile of music.

The girls had unpacked their trunks and
changed their travelling-dresses. They generally
chose their toilettes so as to harmonise, and
never ' killed ' each other's colours. This evening
Violet was what Eosemary affectionately
called ' a little pigeon ' — that is to say, she had
on a soft dove-coloured dress, simply and gracefully
made, with knots of blue ribbon nestling
here and there ; while Eosemary wore a robe of
some clinging cream-coloured material, relieved
with touches of a warm red-brown, not unlike
the darker shades in her own rich hair — this
harmony of tints was a little daring, but very

effective and becoming, as Eosemary's toilettes
always were.

Mrs. Wentworth, surveying the two girls
approvingly, reflected that they were an exceedingly
attractive addition to her establishment.


And how did you get here ? ' Violet inquired
conversationally of Max Randolph.

Martin drove me round the lake in his
buggy ; he's gone on to some place near here
said herd call for me on his way home, if
you will let me inflict myself on you for an
hour or so ? ' turning to Mrs. Wentworth.

We shall be only too glad of your company,
Mr. Randolph,' that lady protested
cordially.

Although we have already a score of your
noble sex on the premises, there's always room
and a welcome for one more,' observed Rosemary.


Even when the one is you,' said Violet,
who often had her saucy fling at Max Randolph
; and their light and laughing glances
met with the usual familiar freedom — more
freely now than during the days they had been
virtually alone on the journey South.

" Will you walk into my parlour ? said the
spider to the fly," ' Eosemary sang softly and
smilingly. ' But your flies don't seem inclined
to walk into the parlour, Aunt Em. Are they
afraid of being eaten up ? '

Where are all your friends and countrymen
? ' Mr. Randolph inquired, having not as
yet seen so much as the whisk of a coat-tail of
the ' Household Brigade.'

Countrymen they are, and friends they
shall be ; but we have not made much
progress towards friendship yet,' replied Rosemary.


As for me, I haven't yet got any one of

VOL. I. G

them labelled with his proper name,' said
Yiolet.

Haven't made much impression, eh ? '
remarked Max.

Not yet' Violet smiled.

Oh, I do remember,' she added, ' the one
with the long nose, who always pokes his chin
on his breast and dives his hands deep in his
pockets, is Mr. Staples.'

Fascinating description ! ' commented Max.
I don't think I'll mind him ! '

Which is the good-looking fair one who
never speaks ? ' inquired Eosemary.

Conyers ? Why, my dear child, he
opened his mouth three tunes this afternoon,
and made three distinct and articulate remarks.
That's a great deal for him ! '

'And the tall slight one, with the little
dark moustache, who fetched the plates for the
fruit?'

Oh, Christie ! Christie is a sweet boy
we're very fond of him,' replied Mrs. Whit-worth,
who called all her flock by their surnames
as freely as a schoolmaster addresses his
class.

Here Mr. Wentworth came in ; and, immediately
scenting in Max Randolph a possible
purchaser of a grove, within ten minutes had
invited him to drive out the next day and
inspect some highly desirable land which he,
Mr. AYhitworth, held for disposal at a rate
which made it • A bargain, I do assure you, my
dear sir, a rare bargain ; and when you see it
you will say so.'

Then Mrs. Wentworth opened the piano,
and asked the girls to sing. Violet pleaded a
slight cold in her throat ; and Eosemary, who
liked an audience, the while

Her fingers wandered idly
Over the ivory keys,

inquired : —

o 2

'Aunt Emma, don't your little flock ever
come in of an evening ? '

I'll call them,' said Mrs. Wentworth ; and
going out into the hall and across to the
smoking-room she gave a general invitation,
in a tone that suggested a royal command.
Come in, all of you, or some of you ; we're
going to have a little music. Come and be
audience.'

At this summons Mr. Christie and Mr.
Staples came promptly, and after them a half-dozen
others strayed in one by one, and lined
the walls and hung around the door. None,
except Mr. Tregelva and young Christie,
penetrated as far into the room as the centre
table, nor ventured upon the occupation of any
chairs save those which were in safe retirement,
backed against the wall. Apparently, the lack
of feminine society at West Grove House had
rendered them a little shy of it. Thus Rosemary

and her friend had not much opportunity
of progress in the matter of identification,
although, before the end of the evening, they
had succeeded in ' placing ' Mr. Tregelva, with
his fair, close-cropped head, long tawny moustache,
and sleepy looking pale-blue eyes, who
distinguished himself by volunteering to fetch
in another lamp, and who acted as the mouthpiece
of the general desire when any especial
song was requested, and who also led the
chorus of the murmured applause, which never
rose above a murmur.

Eosemary was in splendid voice, and she
sang her songs of sweetest sentiment, of most
sparkling gaiety, of most tragic pathos ; but
she was compelled to admit in confidence to
Violet that ' she had sung to more enthusiastic
audiences.'

They will warm up,' Violet said consolingly
; ' the fact is, Eosie, you and I have

become so used to American expansion and
demonstrativeness, we really don't know what
to make of British reserve.'

I think they are shy,' observed Eosemary
demurely, ' and probably require a little gentle
encouragement.'

And there's small fear that they will not
have it,' said Violet laughing, as the two friends,
with affectionately linked arms — a prettier picture
than West Grove House had seen for many
a d-ay — went their way to their room.

'I never come down to breakfast, my
dears,' Mrs. Wentworth said as she bade them
good-night. 'I have a cup of tea in bed.
You two can do just what you like ; the breakfast
bell will ring at seven — but have your
breakfast in bed if you like.'

Neither Eosemary nor Violet did like, however.
They preferred a good sociable breakfast
at table to cups of tea in bed, and at the

summons of the seven o'clock bell they were
as nearly ready to go down as could reasonably
be expected. The bell not only rang
punctually, but continued ringing at intervals
of three or four minutes. Violet hurried the
finishing touches to her toilette, but in vain, as
Rosemary' declined to hasten, and Violet waited
for her. When they went down to the diningroom,
they found the long table full, and the
Avliole regiment at breakfast ; it looked like a
barrack mess ; and all the troop rose up .in
respectful greeting, with a mighty pushing and
scraping of chairs on the bare floor.

- Are we late ? ' Violet asked apologetically,
as she slipped into the chair which mr. Tregelva
placed for her.

How many bells do they ring ? ' inquired
Eosemary ; ' I counted seven.'

Oh, they go on ringing till everybody's
down,' Mr. Staples replied.

Meanwhile, Mr. Christie had hastened to the
side-table to pour out some coffee for the ladies.
Mr. Tregelva followed him to cut some ham for
them, and Mr. Conyers very leisurely brought
up the rear with bread and butter. Mr. Whit-worth
had already finished his breakfast and
left the table ; the smart young mulatto who
officiated as indoor ' factotum ' did not ' wait '
at breakfast, but Violet and Eosemary had
never found themselves so well waited upon
before. The young men were one and all
ready to jump up and hasten to the side-table
in their behalf. Even Mr. Staples, looking, as
usual, limp and loose-jointed, with his large,
mild, melancholy eyes, and his habitual depression
of aspect, got up to fetch them a piled-up
platter, with the tempting invitation, 'Won't
you have some hot cakes ? they're quite cold.'
The day began well ; but, as it went on, the
girls did not find it blest with so much of social

and congenial communion as might have been
hopefully anticipated from so fair a beginning,
and a fear began to dawn on them that possibly,
amongst this gallant band, there might prove to
be no congenial souls to commune with. Almost
immediately after breakfast the party scattered.
Messrs. Conyers and Tregelva, with fishing-rods
over their shoulders and tin bait-cans in their
hands, bent their steps in the direction of the
big lake. Young Christie and the two Fraser
brothers set off on a shooting expedition. Mr.
Staples went to fetch the mail from the nearest
post-town ; the rest of the brigade dispersed themselves
in various directions — none of them were
to be seen about parlour or piazza or grounds.
After the midday dinner, Mr. Wentworth took a
couple of them off to inspect some neighbouring
orange groves ; he picked up Max Randolph
on the round, and having shown him —
in vain — some tempting bargains in the way

of ' wild pine-land,' brought him. home to
supper.

Conversation as a fine art did not flourish
much at West Grove House. It ran entirely on

oranges and lemons,' groves, ' lots,' and land,

• lake fronts,' wild land, pine-land, bay-land,
hammock-land. Violet, who always liked to
enter into and take a part in the life of those
amongst whom she found herself, took some
interest in inquiring which of these various
lands were the best, the cheapest, the dearest ;
why 'lake-fronts' were deemed so desirable,
and so on. Eosemary felt no interest at all in
the 'land question,' indeed, frankly averred
herself to be ' dead tired ' of it, and very little
in her aunt's gossip — running chiefly on which
of the young men had already bought land,
which of them were in process of negotiation,
and which had not as yet seen anything to suit
them — this latter class being by far the largest.

Mrs. Wentworth spoke in kindly terms of
her ' little flock.' ' They're a fine set of young
fellows,' she observed, 'nearly all of them
of the best families. There's Tregelva, an
eldest son — Tregelva Hall is a perfectly splendid
place, but heavily encumbered — Tregelva's heir
to the estate, but he'll have very little means to
keep it up. There's Chadwick, Sir Grease
Chadwick's youngest son ; and Christie, Lord
Court-royal's nephew ; and Staples, he was
always looked upon as the Earl of Kil-vanstone's
heir — the old earl was Staples's
uncle, a widower, with only two daughters —
when what did the old uncle do but go and
marry again, and didn't die till he had two
sons ! Consequently, here is poor Staples.
Oh, there's plenty of sang azur among them,
but very little money — else they wouldn't be
here.'

CHAPTEE Y.

THE HOUSEHOLD BRIGADE.

Mr. Confess, do you sleep very soundly, or
are you the most popular member of this
brotherhood ? ' inquired Eosemary, as she and
Violet sat at their social breakfast with
the ' Household Brigade ' — Messrs. Tregelva,
Christie, and Staples vying with each other in
ministering to the needs of the fair guests in the
direction of ham, fish, toast, and coffee.

Why do you ask that, Miss Heath ? ' rejoined
Conyers, who liked to know the why
and the wherefore of everything. He did not
talk much, but the little he did say was generally
in a note of interrogation.

Because you always seem to be in demand
at an unearthly hour in the morning,' she replied.
'Every morning we hear your name
called upon '

We might s^j shouted, in stentorian tones,'
Violet observed.

And we hear a sound,' continued Rosemary,
' sucfjTestive of boots or a broomstick
aimed at your door.'

An explosion of mirth from the side-table,
where Christie was endeavouring to scrape some
meat off a huge ham-bone, testified to his exceeding
enjoyment of Miss Heath's observation.

We call Conyers to come and bathe with
us,' said Tregelva.

He requires a good deal of calling,' Violet
remarked.

I always answer at the first call. It's very
seldom indeed they have to call me twice,' replied
Conyers, handsome, stolid, and literal.

We bathe every morning in the lake,' observed
Staples.

Without fear of alligators ? ' she asked.

Conyers shot a 'gabor there week before
last — a fellow five feet long,' said young Chadwick,
putting in his word.

I don't count that shooting him. I didn't
get him ; he sank.'

You hit him though. I believe he went
down as dead as mutton,' said Tregelva.

Some of his avenging kindred will have
you one day,' remarked Rosemary.

Grab you by the leg, Conyers ! ' prophesied
Staples, apparently enjoying the idea.

And down you'll go ! ' added Tregelva.

I'm not afraid of 'gators,' rejoined Conyers,
who seemed to be paying less attention to
the conversation than to a tough piece of ham,
at which he was sawing away with a very blunt
knife. 'Nobody thinks anything of a 'gabor here.'

'1 thoLiorht a food deal of them when I
took Mrs. Johnson's girls out on Lake Eosahe
in a boat that turned out to leak like a sieve.
I thought those alligators were going to have
a feast said Trevelyan

alligator five feet long could pull you ,
under, couldn't he? ' asked Violet.

I' suppose he could, if he got hold of you
by the leg was the reply. ' But one never
hears of any accidents. They're not like the
Nile crocodiles.'

The subject of alligators being presently
exhausted, the two girls, ha\'inor finished their
breakfast, rose up, the regiment all rising with
them as one man ; and Christie and Staples
making a simultaneous move forward to open
the door, Christie, of course, attaining the goal
first.

Doesn't it make you feel rather like
royalty?' said Violet, in a laughing aside to

Eosemary as they crossed the hall towards the
piazza, a great trampling and scuffling of feet
attesting that the whole of the brigade were
swarming in their wake.

I doubt if royalty appreciates the pleasures
of the position half as much,' remarked Rosemary.
'How the sun glares! Let us go up
and fetch our crowns, else we shall get our
noses burnt brown.'

'And have to drop our sceptres,' added
Violet.

They ran upstairs laughing, and got out
their broad-brimmed sun-hats ; Eosemary tried
hers on, and, not being entirely satisfied that it
was becoming, refused to go out until she had
altered the arrangement of the ribbon and
flower.

Hats or parasols, or both, were indeed
necessary to all who were mindful of their complexions,
for. although it was but little past nine

o'clock when the girls returned downstairs, the
sun already poured a level blaze straight on to
the broad, high, open south piazza, which was
the most popular resort.

Not a breath of air stirred the foliage of the
tall, slim 'yellow pines,' whose graceful feathery
plumes were traced in delicate pencilling against
the burning azure of a sky almost too dazzling
in its light and colour. The lake, seen in
glimpses between and beyond the pine-trees,
was as intense and pure a blue as the shining
sky above. The shadows of the orange-trees
reached long dark fingers across the brownish
lawn towards the house. The fruit hung ripe
and ruddily golden in the sunshine amongst
the deep green glossy leafage. Here and there
were lemon-trees starred with their paler fruit ;
here a mass of branches bent low beneath the
weight of enormous citrons ; and here a stately
tree stood laden with the huge pale golden

VOL. I. U

clusters of the 'grape-fruit,' which looks like
an immense lemon-coloured orange or orange -
shaped lemon, and has a delicious tart flavour,
between the two. The dogs lay like dead dogs,
with flaccid ears and inert tails, their passive
sides turned up to bask in the sun.

On the edge of the piazza Messrs. Christie
and Tregelva were seated, very busy cleaning
their guns. Along the broad shallow steps that
led down to the lawn Mr. Staples stretched his
length, his hat pulled well over his eyes, the
tip of his nose recklessly exposed to sunburn.
Mr. Conyers was reposing in a rocking-chair ;
a second, chair was arranged so as to afford a
comfortable resting-place for his manly limbs ;
a third chair, drawn conveniently up to his right
hand, supported his tobacco-pouch, matches,
and a yellow paper-covered French novel. He
looked as if, save for the trouble of pulling at
his meerschaum, he would have been asleep ;

Staples, to all appearance, was asleep, Tree
and Christie absorbed in their arsenal
work, when with a ^o^i frou-frou of their summer
dresses, Violet and Eosemary stepped out
on the piazza.

Conyers lifted his handsome blue eyes heavily,
as if the raising of their long lashes were
an effort. Staples's eyes were buried in his hat,
Christie's and Tregelva's fixed on their guns,
until Eosemary made a remark, with a sweet
and genial smile, on the beauty of the mornings
at which the four looked up.

Staples lazily tilted his hat up from his nose,
and then as lazily gathered himself up from this
step and leant against a column, with his head
sunk forward on his breast, and his hands-buried
as deep as they would go in his pockets.
Conyers, knocking the ashes leisurely from his
pipe, bethought himself of observing, in an only
slightly interrogative accent, ' You don't mind

H 2

smoke ? ' He evidently v^^ould have been very
much taken aback had he received anything
but the cordial assurance that they did not
which Yiolet promptly gave him.

Seeing Yiolet about to move her chair back
out of the sun-glare, Staples took his hands out
of his pockets to assist her ; and then it occurred
to Conyers to remove his feet from the chair
whereon they were so luxuriously reposing.
Christie and Tregelva put up their guns and
drew near and joined the group, disposing
themselves comfortably in lounging-chairs,
while Staples, having done his duty, got into
the hammock and lay down.

Presently the two Fraser brothers and
young Chadwick came out of the house in an
eminently sportsmanlike ' get-up,' with their
guns over their shoulders and cartridge-belts
round their waists ; and with a brisk business
air, which contrasted with the supine attitude

of utter dolce far niente of the group on the
piazza, they crossed the lawn and turned off
down the road. Harrington — a smooth-checked
stripling, in a suit that looked as if it were made
out of a blue and white check duster — lounged
out behind them, and stood about aimlessly on
the steps. None of the party seemed at all
able to make up their minds what to do, or
whether to do anything. Tregelva intimated
that he regarded ' loafing ' as on the whole
a more satisfactory occupation than any other.

Who's going to fetch the mail ? ' inquired
Conyers.

Spencer's going.'

Are you going shooting ? ' asked Harrington.


N — no, I think not,' Tregelva replied
slowly. ' Conyers and I went shooting the
other day — were out nearly all day, and we
got one miserable quail and a rabbit. They

talk of sport here. I've more sport out of my
own window at home ! '

'You can pot an alligator or bag a sand
crane — for our dinners ! ' said Christie.

And very good the crane was,' observed
Violet.

I'm glad you liked the crane, Miss Preston.
Pinkie roasted it very well.'

Why don't they have dogs ? ' demanded
Staples languidly from his hammock. ' Could
get some sport if we had dogs.'

They haven't got such a thing out here,
my dear fellow.' ,

Here Christie rose up, stretched himself,
and announced that he was going to drive
to Johnson's Grove in his wagon, and inquired
if ' any of you fellows ' had a mind to go with
him?

Apparently nobody cared to drive to
Johnson's Grove, for nobody offered to move.

o

There doesn't seem to be anything to do
here, nor anywhere to go,' observed Eosemary.

No, there isn't anywhere — much,' replied
Tregelva. ' There's a — a shop — they call it a
dry-goods store " here — about seven miles off,
where you can get things '

Ladies' things,' added Staples explanatorily,
as Tregelva appeared too somnolent to continue.


What are ladies' things ? ' asked Eosemary
gravely.

Staples was for a moment posed by this
question ; then a brilliant idea flashed upon
him, and he replied :

Well, gloves.'

Yes, I see you don't wear any,' remarked
Eosemary, glancing at the sun-browned hand
that hung listlessly over the edge of the hammock.


And — a — dresses — and bonnets,' continued

Staples, brightening. ' Mrs. Wentworth bought
a hat there for fifty cents — that straw thing
she wears.'

It's not polite to call a lady's hat a
." thing," drawled Tregelva.

No, it's a " creation ! " ' suggested Harrington.


You can sell as well as buy in these happy
latitudes,' Tregelva continued conversationally,
waking up a little. ' Staples has got a coat he's
trading with a nigger.'

We're good traders, both of us,' Staples
observed meditatively ; ' the nigger pretends he
doesn't want to buy, and I make out I don't
particularly care to sell.'

Why don't you throw in those boots of
yours ? ' suggested Conyers.

Mr. Staples seems to have a great many
superfluous articles in his wardrobe,' remarked
Violet.

'The boots are superfluous,' Staples admitted
dejectedly. 'I gave four guineas for
them.'

And I'd let the darker have them for two
dollars if I were you,' said Conyers.

You should get him to show them to you.
Miss Preston,' said Tregelva.

As this manner of mild chaff at each other's
expense involved no strain upon the intellect,
and thus was eminently qualified to suit the
speakers — especially on a tropical morning like
this — it ran round the circle, and found fresh
targets in Harrington's hat — which may have
had a shape originally, but, through long compression
in his pocket and flattening in his
portmanteau, had lost such form as it had ever
possessed — and Tregelva's dust-coloured alpaca
suit, against which there was launched the
terrible accusation that he had bought it ready-made.


I wish my tailor could see it ! ' he observed,
casting down his eyes in impartial criticism on
his own garments. * He'd never make me a
coat again I '

He'll never have the chance, if you buy
that grove in Tohopekaliga,' said Staples.

Are you all going to buy groves ? ' asked
Violet.

That's what we've all come out here for,'
Tregelva replied.

I shan't buy unless I see a better grove at
a lower price than has been offered me yet,'
came a growl from the hammock.

Have you chosen your grove ? ' asked Rosemary,
lifting her lovely indolent dark eyes to
Mr. Tregelva.

< N — no — I've looked at some,' he replied
languidly.

'And you, Mr. Conyers?' and the dark
eyes turned their beauty on him.

I don't know. There's no hurry,' said
Conyers, whose classically handsome features
were hard to stir from their sleepy and bovine
sort of calm.

Oh, Harrington ! ' shouted Mr. Wentworth
from the distance. Nobody lives long in the
South without contracting the habit of prefixing
an emphatic ' Oh ! ' to the name of anyone.
Oh, Tregelva ! Harrington ! Don't you want
to come and see John Ecss ? He's just brought
in a careful of deer.'

The whole company rose up en masse, even
Staples slowly preparing to tumble out of his
hammock.

Anything to see ? ' exclaimed Eosemary,
rising with some alacrity. " Come along,
Yi!'

Stampede in search of the smallest excitement,'
remarked Violet, as the whole party
hastened helter-skelter into the house and

through the hall, that being the shortest cut
to the back-yard, where they found indeed a
cart, laden — alas ! not with the picturesque remains
of the antlered monarchs of the forest,
but with the same cut up into saddles and
haunches, looking very much like an ordinary
butcher's cart. The driver, the mighty hunter
who had brought in his spoils from the chase, a
mahogany-faced Nimrod in a brandish sombrero
hat a good deal the worse for wear, was
engaged in sociable converse with Mr. Whit-worth
; while Mr. Christie stood by looking on,
in a simple and degage costume which made a
picturesque display of shirt-sleeves, jack-boots,
and a huge knife stuck loosely in this belt. In
the background, apparently deeply interested,
were Beverley, the indoor mulatto boy, and
old Lorenzo, the out-door man, an ancient
negro with a fringe of white whisker and beard
framing his venerable black face, and making

him look exactly like a large-sized ape. To
these enter Eosemary and Violet, Messrs.
Conyers, Staples, Tregelva, and Harrington.
John Eoss's brown face beamed with a hearty
smile as his audience thus suddenly and largely
increased.

Yes, sir, four splendid bucks ! ' he continued.
' I sold the hides and antlers to Mr.
Galbraith.'

'He'll send them home as trophies of his
own killing,' was Tregelva's comment.

See here, sir ! ' said the hunter, lifting
up a fine saddle, ' fifteen cents a pound.'

I used to get it for two cents a pound in
Colorado,' Wentworth rejoined.

Colorado isn't Florida,' John Eoss answered
veraciously, and none could contradict
him.

I say. Staples,' observed Tregelva aside,
^ you might try Eoss with your boots. He's a

big strong fellow, and he might be able to bear
them.'

Whether this suggestion was advanced in
jest or earnest, Mr. Staples accepted it
seriously ; he hastened into the house, and
presently returned bearing a pair of enormous
thick-soled top-boots. John Boss's genial smile
spread from ear to ear as Staples approached
him, boots in hand, and proceeded gravely to
inquire what he thought them worth, and
whether he would be inclined to enter into
negotiations with a view to becoming their
possessor ? John Eoss inspected them, weighed
them leisurely and deliberately, shifting them
from hand to hand, and then pronounced his
opinion.

Well, they're with ten or twelve dollars,
but if they wus mine I'd give ten dollars to be
out of them ! '

Christie, delighted at this, burst into one of

those hearty explosions of laughter by which
the new arrivals had already learned to characterise
him. His unbridled mirth attracted
attention to himself and his costume.

That's a Hyde Park turn-out, Christie,'
remarked Tregelva.

I was admiring it,' said Eosemary, smiling ;
and indeed young Christie — tall and young,
strong and The — had never looked handsomer
nor manlier than in his neglige toilet. 'And
this,' she added, delicately indicating the knife
in his belt, ' this gives a genuine frontier air to
the costume.'

He might go to a fancy ball as a pioneer,
oughtn't he ? ' observed Staples, who stood by,
still bearing his boots unabashed.

Wouldn't you like to see him in the park,
vehicle, steed, and all ? ' said Tregelva, pointing
to the neat ' Macy wagon,' the pride of
Christie's heart, painted a beautiful bright green

picked out with scarlet, to which he had been
harnessing a half-broken rough Texan pony
when the faineant party from the piazza
swarmed into the courtyard.

'I was warm, and I took my coat off
for driving in the sun,' said Christie apologetically.


I took off my coat driving one warm day,*
observed Tregelva narratively. 'I was going
to pay a visit, too, and I hung my coat
over the back of the buggy. When I got

there '

^' The cupboard was bare'" quoted Violet
laughingly.

Yes, the buggy was bare. I turned round
to get my coat, and it was gone.'

Visiting-costume a la mode de Florida
remarked Eosemary.

Did you ever see your coat again ? ' asked
Violet.

Yes ; it was picked up on the road and
brought back to me.'

They're very honest about here,' put in Mr.
Wentworth. ' We never lock a door nor bar
a shutter.'

Here Mrs. Wentworth appeared, looking
the model of a comely housewife, with a large
apron tied over her dress, both her hands
occupied in bearing aloft a huge citron and a
dangling yard-measure.

Look here, all of you ! ' she exclaimed,
triumphantly displaying these trophies, ' did
you ever see a finer citron ? It's from the East
Grove. Just measure it ! Eighteen inches
from eye to stem ! Isn't it the prize citron of
the season ? '

The hunter was holding up a haunch of
venison for inspection ; Staples was still contemplating
his rejected boots. Tregelva

VOL. I. I

glanced from them to the ' prize citron,' and
remarked languidly —

Looks like market day, or a stall at the
Florida Exhibition, everybody showing off their
goods ! '

CHAPTEE YI.

HALCYON HOURS.

The day had worn on to sunset. Violet was
sitting on the fallen trunk of a pine-tree on the
brink of the South Lake, so called by the
inmates of West Grove House. Its proper
name was Lake Julia. Most of the lakes about
this neighbourhood appeared to have been
christened by men after their wives and sweethearts,
so many where the feminine names
represented in the list, from Ellie and Virginia
down to ' Sue ' — not even Susan, but
simple familiar Sue, while one of the fairest
lakes answered to the name of Mary Jane. In
favour of these and similar equally homely

I 2

designations, the aboriginal names, with their
quaint and curious euphony, have been neglected
in too many places, although still a
glance at the map of Florida relieves us by
showing in how many other localities the old
Indian words, waifs and strays of the language
of a race that is rapidly passing away, are
retained. In contrast with the appellations of
Jones and Jackson, Smith and Butler, and their
respective wives, sweethearts, and daughters,
how refreshing it is to come upon the good old
aboriginal names of Woyohokalpa, Allah,
Tohopekaliga, and Tallahassee ! while as to
Itsopogayoxee and Okeehumkee they are a
perfect treat to roll under the tongue! The
residents at West Grove had a little nomenclature
of their own ; they had always dubbed
Lake Julia ' South Lake,' in reference to the
quarter in which it lay with regard to the
house ; and they called Lake Margaret ' Silver

Lake,' from its purity and brightness, but left
Lake Annabel and Lake Rosalie to flourish
under their rightful titles.

On the shore, then, of the Southern Lake
Julia, Violet was sitting, for a wonder, all alone.
Eosemary had gone for a drive with Messrs.
Conyers, Harrington, and Wentworth — the last-named
was taking the two former to inspect a
splendid young grove which had been placed
in his hands for sale, and had invited Eosemary
to occupy the fourth place in the carriage. Mrs.
Wentworth was busy in the kitchen, assisting
and directing Pinkie, the mulatto cook, in the
preparation of guava marmalade, and Violet
had taken a novel and gone down to sit by the
lake.

But the novel lay in her lap neglected in
favour of the sunset, and wisely so. For if her
lines in life should lead her — as they at present
promised to do — back to her own Northern

clime, she would have many and many an
opportunity of reading the best novels, of this
or any other day, for one chance of contemplating
such a sunset as this.

The whole west was one scarlet fire, which
shaded by undefinable degrees into the purest
of pellucid blue above ; towards the east those
dream-like depths of azure melted into a soft,
dull, pink haze, which hung like a filmy roseate
veil over all the eastern half of the heavens. In
the crystal-clear bosom of the lake every varying
tint of the sky, every leaf and branch of
the tall starless pine-trees, the green luxuriant
tangle of underwood on the banks, was mirrored.
The living landscape was not more purely,
clearly distinct, in detail of line and colouring,
than its reflection below the glassy surface of
the lake. Only at the edge ' the water washing
in the reeds ' faintly broke the silence. Violet,
keenly alive to all that was beautiful in life

and in nature, the sense of beauty thrilling
softly through her every nerve, sat wrapt in
dreamy content.

Presently on the far side of the lake a
streak seemed to separate itself from the bank.
The streak was shooting out into the water,
crossing the lake ; it developed into a boat — a
boat rowed by one man, who was heading his
course towards the spot where she sat. Yiolet,
well content before, felt a sense of fuller contentment
still as she recognised that the oarsman
was Max Randolph, whistling softly as he
pulled across the placid lake, his gun lying on
the thwarts.

She did not rise up to greet so old a friend,
but looked up and smiled as he grounded his
boat and sprang ashore. She had not seen Max
Randolph alone since the prolonged tete-astute of
their journey from New York, and she was not
sorry to find this offered opportunity of one of

the old quiet talks with this good friend and
comrade now.

'Why, where's Miss Eosemary?' he inquired.
' I thought you two were like twin
cherries on one stem — Hernia and Helena
business '

Hernia and Helena quarrelled, which we
don't mean to do,' replied Violet.

They clashed about a man,' he observed.

Which I hope we shall not ! ' she said.
For one thing, no man ever admires us both.'

'No,' he admitted. ' You are opposite
poles. It would be very difficult to admire
you both.'

He paused a minute or two, regarding her
deliberately and thoughtfully, before he added,
But there are some men who are born to
achieve difficult tasks.'

You had better try what you can achieve,'
she rejoined laughingly.

In that line ? Yes,' he answered meditatively,
pulling at his mustache, as is the way
of man when man is reflecting gravely,' ' I might
try ! Pity Miss Eosemary isn't here, that I
might have a chance of beginning now.'

You must try to be content for a little
while without her. Are you going up to the
house ? '

I'm in no hurry,' he replied. ' Come fora
turn in my boat. Miss Violet ; it's the
pleasantness hour of the day on the water.'

Violet neither felt nor feigned any hesitation.
She knew it was indeed the pleasantness
hour of all the day, and, fair as was the scene
on shore, it would look fairer still from the
water.

She stepped willingly into the boat, took
her seat in the stem, and Max pushed off.

The water lapped softly against the sides of
the boat ; the oars broke up the motionless

reflection of the rose and azure sky into opaline
ripples, and sent tremulous wrinkles across the
graceful images of the tall slim pine-trees that
pointed downwards in the transparent depths.
Not a sound, not even the note of a bird, broke
the silence ; not a cloud drifted across the
pellucid sky ; nothing marred the pure and
perfect serenity of the hour and place.

How lovely it is ! ' Violet breathed with a
soft sigh of content.

Now what did you want to bring that book
out with you for ? ' asked Max, pointing to the
volume she kept still in her hand.

Don't abuse my book. It's a nice book ;
I am enjoying it very much.'

I didn't abuse it : I only asked what you
wanted with it. You were not reading it when
I landed ^ '

No, of course not : I was looking at you ! '
she laughed.

If it's a good book you might lend it tome.
I have read all my books and I want
something to read.'

You won't care about this,' she said ; ' it is
a love-story.'

I don't care much about love-stories
generally,' he acknowledged. 'They always
seem to me a good deal of fuss about nothing.'

'A fair description of some love-stories,
certainly,' she agreed.

People make too much of love,' he
observed coolly. ' It's just the gilt on the
ginger-bread.'

'Not the staff of life itself?' she rejoined
smiling.

No ; just a bit of gilding, easily rubbed off,
put on to please children — and fools. Heartless
view, isn't it ? Shocks you, doesn't it ? '

Well, even if your view is the right one,'
she said, forbearing to pronounce sentence on

the said view, ' wouldn't you rather have your
ginger-bread gilt than not ? '

I don't know,' he replied ; ' gilding's unwholesome.
Perhaps it's a case of sour grapes,'
he added ; ' I never have had my ginger-bread

gilt.'

Isn't that your own doing ? '

I suppose it is,' he said ; ' but if nature left
a heart out of my anatomy, is that my fault ?
I wish I could be in love! Wonder how it
would feel to be like that poor young
Fletcher ? ' naming a love-lorn swain whose
piteous case had been a subject of observation
and comment to them both. ' I wouldn't mind
trying it for an hour, just for a new sensation
! '

Have you never been in love, then ? '
Violet asked him frankly, lightly, but with a
little real curiosity underlying the lightness of
her tone.

I ? ' He laughed his short sneering laugh.
Not in my hne at all to make a fool of myself
in that way, I mean. There are plenty of
other ways left.'

There are, indeed,' she said, ' and worse
ways too.'

'I don't know about worse ways,' he demurred.
' The worst mischief in the world is
always made by women. Sto man ever got
into any serious trouble yet that a woman
wasn't at the bottom of it.'

We might just as fairly and truly reverse
the case,' she replied spiritedly. ' Transpose
the pronouns and read man for woman.'

Women feel less,' asserted Max dogmatically
with a certain doggedness of air which
he generally assumed when he was saying what
he didn't mean.

Less than you, who don't feel at all ? ' she
retorted.

Because Dame Nature was kind enough to
give me a good tough piece of india-rubber in
place of a heart it doesn't follow that other fellows
are as lucky. Some of them come to awful
grief. But one can't be very sorry for a man
who makes a fool of himself about a woman.
He shouldn't let himself be fooled.'

I sympathise more with the fool than the
wise man,' she observed.

Naturally, as you profit by his folly.'

And sometimes share it,' she suggested.

And get off the easiest,' he said.

No, that we don't ! ' she replied ; ' a woman
always comes off the worst.'

Who blames a woman,' Max asked a little
bitterly, ' for spoiling a man's life ? '

'And what penalty does a man pay for
wrecking a woman's life ? ' Violet rejoined.

He doesn't do it,' was the answer. ' At
least, not in the run of cases. I suppose you're

thinking of Mat Carew's ajQTair with Lucy Paterson
? I tell you, women's feelings are

As moonlight unto sunlight and as water unto wine.

The very next season Miss Lucy married some
rich banker.'

Do you think her marrying the second
proves she didn't care for the first ? ' inquired
Violet.

Comfortable for the second, according to
the view you suggest,' he remarked.

We run on lines that \Yill never meet,' she
said ; 'we start from different premises ; I am
afraid we shall never find a point at which to
meet and agree.'

That would be sad,' he replied ; ' I'm
always sorry not to agree with you. Miss
Violet.'

She looked at him steadily, questioningly,
as she inquired, ' Is that " rote sarcastic " ? '

He met her frank asking gaze fully ; his
inscrutable grey eyes looked level into her
clear blue ones, and told absolutely nothing, ashe
replied, ' Must every civil thing I say be
ironical ? '

When it is said to me I ' she answered,
half laughing, half in earnest.

Am I such a bear to you ? ' he asked.

Sto, no,' she protested sweetly. ' But we
have never cultivated the habit of saying civil
things to each other, have we?' she added,
with one of her pretty confiding smiles.

Well, no, we haven't,' he agreed. ' Do
you think it's time we began? '

We get on very well as we are,' she said
lightly.

Very well,' he assented, looking at her
with his keen unsmiling gaze.

And we won't begin to quarrel now,' she
added — 'not on such an evening as this.

when everything is so lovely and calm and
peaceful ! '

And not when you're alone in the boat
with me,' he added. * Choose a safer time.
Keep the peace with me, or I might upset the
boat.'

Then you would have to swim with me to
shore ! '

Oh, no — not if you abused me. In that
case, I should swim ashore by myself; only
perhaps, as I'm foolishly good-natured, I might
leave you an oar.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE villa

REINE Siamese.

The sun has gone down in golden light behind
the western woods ; the lakes are turned
to liquid gold ; the cloudless azure of the sky
deepens slowly and softly as the veil of twilight
sinks over it, tenderly as sleep steals on
the weary. Above the sunset, high in the west,
one star trembles like a diamond dewdrop.

Most of the West Grove House party are
out on the south piazza, enjoying the balmy
beauty of the breezeless evening, watching the
amber light of the sunset deepen into orange,
and the orange glow into fiery red. They are
talking about as much as usual — that is to say,

a desultory dropping fire of fragmentary conversation
is going on.

'twinkle, twinkle, little star"' quotes
Christie, who is the only one standing up, all
the rest of the party lounging in more or less
recumbent attitudes in rocking or reclining-chairs.


What little star is it ? ' asks Violet.

That's the evening star,' replies Harrington.

'It's Venus.' Staples volunteers his item
of astronomical information. ' Venus always
comes out just there over the sunset.'

Venus winked at me,' says Tregelva languidly.
' I wish she wouldn't ! I don't like it.'

Tell her not to,' observes Violet ; ' it's not
proper.'

Are you awake, Mr. Tregelva .^ ' ask
Eosemary. ' I was nearly asleep, and I thought
you were too.'

Eosemary, in a white dress, and with a

K 2

sultanesque air, is reclining in the hammock, of
which she has lately taken exclusive possession,
dislodging Staples, whose favourite lounging-place
it used to be.

Did you see Galbraith to-day ? ' asks Tree
proving his wakefulness by sitting a trifle
straighter up. 'He's got to be a regular
cracker — a three days' beard and a Panama
hat, and no collar nor cuffs.'

We're all beginning to look like crackers,*
says Harrington. ' Conyers has got a regular
cracker hat.'

What's the use of wearing a Bond Street
hat here ? ' demands Conyers.

What are crackers ? ' inquires Violet, to
whom the term conveys but a vague idea.

Crackers are the — er — natives,' replies
Tregelva.

The real natives were Indians,' Harrington
corrects him. * Crackers are the white settlers.'

Then if you settle here you'll all be
crackers,' Violet argues logically.

Crackers aren't gentlemen,' Conyers objects
with stolid gravity.

There pasty-faced fellows who live in lights
and tell the time by the sun,' observes
Tregelva.

They're the poor whites,' continues Harrington.
' They lead a primitive kind of life.
If you see a fellow who looks as if he'd come
out of an old-clothes shop, he's generally a
cracker. I saw one the other day with a very
dirty old blanket pinned round him instead of
a coat.'

Staples, who is seated as usual with his head
drooping forward on his breast, his hands deep
in his pockets, his feet on a chair, and his knees
drawn up at an acute angle, here observes narratively
—

I've sold a coat to-day to a nigger for two

pounds. It was a good coat,' he adds a little
regretfully, ' but an awful bad fit.'

Why don't you go into the " old clothes "
business, Mr. Staples ? ' inquires Eosemary ;
you'd take to it like a young duck to the
water.'

Thank you, Miss Heath,' he replies rather
resentfully, ' but I've no Hebrew blood in my
veins ! '

The blood of the Rothschild doesn't course
there,' observes Tregelva.

Staples is such a good trader,' says Harrington
maliciously, ' he'll die a millionaire.'

No, I shan't,' Staples contradicts flatly.
And I've traded my last. I've no more coats
to sell.'

/ shall be reduced to part,' says Tregelva,
if I don't hear from home soon.'

Not got your letter yet ? ' asks Violet.

No, nothing yet. If the governor won't

cash up, I shall have to stay here for the remainder
of my natural life.'

They are all by this time on mutually frank
and confidential terms, and are well aware that
Mr. Treselva, with no bank account of his own,
depends entirely on ' the governor's ' remittances
from home.

He has had to " cash up " rather often
before, hasn't he ? ' suggests Eosemary from her
hammock.

Ye — yes — pretty often,' the eldest hope
of the Tregelvas acknowledges placidly. ' I've
made a mess of a good many things.'

And now you are going to try just how bada
scrape you can get into with orange groves ? '
she rejoins.

I'll back him to make a mess of everything
he tries his hand at,' laughs young Harrington.


Too bad ! ' drawls Tregelva, adding with.

if possible, a more indolent air than ever, a
tone as if his eyes were just closing in slumber,
Turn him out ! Won't somebody turn him out? '

That reminds me of an awfully good
story,' eagerly begins Christie, who, whenever
he gets anything good, either a joke or guavas,
is always unselfishly eager for others to participate
in his enjoyment. ' It was in an Irish
theatre — and they were dissatisfied somehow
with the orchestra — and there was a row in the
gallery. One fellow was making a great disturbance,
and so they were calling, " Turn him
out ! " " Throw him over ! " when a man got
up and shouted out, " Don't waste him, boys !
kill a fiddler with him / " '

Staples and Harrington laugh ; Conyers and
Tregelva vouchsafe a smile ; Eosemary observes
sweetly —

Oh, Mr. Christie, that story's as old as the
hills!'

Staples begins a defence of Christie's powers
of entertainment.

Christie can tell some devilish ' he

picks himself up and substitutes * some very
good stories.'

Hullo, Staples ! ' exclaims Tregelva, ' are
you going to become a reformed character ? '

Staples looks rather sulkier than usual, and
appears absorbed in striking a match.

Have you heard Staples swear, Miss Preston
? ' Tregelva continues.

Does he swear ? ' she inquires.

He can — a little — when he tries.'

I have not heard him,' she replies. ' It is
a treat in store.'

Perhaps it's not in store,' demurs Staples ;
perhaps you never will hear me.'

To do Mr. Staples justice, he did not intend
that she should ; but nevertheless, that
very evening, in passing the smoking-room

at a moment when Staples happened to have
dropped and broken his favourite pipe, both
Eosemary and Violet were made aware of that
young man's extraordinary fluency of profane
language and proficiency in devising original
and ingenious oaths.

'Do you know, Vi, my dear,' said Rosemary,
when the two girls were by themselves
in the safe seclusion of their own room, ' I have
come to the conclusion that it is a mistake to
diffuse one's self too much ; and that it is just
what we have been doing here. We have both
been diffusing ourselves too much. I believe it
is a practice in warfare for the best marksmen
not to fire at random, but each choose out
his man and pick him off. Let us be good
markswomen, Vi ; let us each select an object
and pick him off ! '

They do not strike me as being, any of
them, very vulnerable,' Violet observed ; ' but

even Achilles had his weak point, and I've no
doubt you will succeed in getting your shaft
in at your victim's heel, whoever he may be.
Have you made up your mind which one to
choose ? '

Eosemary inclined her head a little on one
side thoughtfully.

I think I'll have a shot at Tregelva,'
she mused. 'He's rather nice. He has good
eyes ; a pleasant voice, and a very nice soft
laugh.'

How about Max Randolph ? ' asked Violet
lightly.

Oh, I can run a pair I ' replied Eosemary,
reckless of consistency in her metaphors. ' And
you, Violet, why don't you try Staples and
Conyers ? The ugliest and the handsomest !
They'd make a good pair ! '

I am not sharpshooter enough to hit two
at once,' Violet laughed. ' You are like the

circus-riders, Eosie, who gallop round on two
horses, a foot on the back of each

'And get thrown sometimes,' said Rosemary
drily.

Which you won't,' rejoined Violet. 'Failure
is not in your line ! '

I have failed,' Eosemary answered moodily.
Then, hurriedly, as if averting some possible
approach to a forbidden subject, she added,
Remember old Carmichael ! '

'Well, he was the exception that proves
the rule,' replied Violet.

The rule must pay for the exception,'
said Eosemary, with a look in her deep dark
eyes that boded no good to her victims.

I don't think I get on with Conyers,'
Violet observed confidentially the next day —
having presumably made tentative and experimental
endeavours to thaw that silent and

statuesque Antinous into conversation. 'I

can't make him talk.'

'I think it would pass mortal woman's

power — even mine,' Eosemary added, with a

little laugh — ' to make him talk. But much

may be achieved without speech.'

'Mute eloquence of the eyes?' rejoined
Yiolet. ' I should like to see Conyers Wrought

up to such a pitch ! '

'Perhaps you may. There's no knowing
what strange sights may be in store. He's certainly
good-looking.'

He's more than good-looking,' Violet
replied, with artistic and impersonal enthusiasm.
'That low broad forehead and pure
Greek nose are a perfect pleasure to contemplate
! Perhaps it would be too much to expect
social or intellectual qualities of him as
Avell. He is nothing but a profile ! '

Well, Yi, if you think his profile — his

Attic forehead and his Phidias nose " — worth
a little pains '

'But I really don't said Yiolet, as Rosemary
arrived at an eloquent and significant
pause. ' He's not at all in my Hne.'

Well, if you don't care to try him,' Rosemary
rejoined musingly, ^ it seems to me a
pity he should be wasted.'

" Don't waste him ! Kill a fiddler with
him ! " ' quoted Yiolet, laughing.

It is a warm, still, moonless night, but
alive with stars. Large, and bright, and
golden — such stars as our England never
knows — they glow out from the depths of
sapphire sky. The West Grove House party
are as usual sitting outside enjoying the air.
On one side of the great central doors — which
stand wide open, of course, and from which a
pale stream of lamplight pours out across the

piazza — Mrs. Wentworth and Violet Preston are
seated, surrounded by a little court, consisting
of Tregelva, somnolent and smoking, swaying
in a rocker ; Christie, wide awake and ready to
laugh at the tiniest of perceptible jokes : and
Staples, drooping limply in a chair tilted on its
hind legs against the wall, his chin, as usual, on
his shirt-front, while his hands, being occupied
with his pipe and light, happen for once to be
out of his pockets.

On the other side of the bar of light,
which strikes out from the hall across the
piazza to the lawn, Eosemary sways in the
hammock, with Max Randolph seated by her
side, and Chadwick and the Fraser boys at a
respectful distance. An empty chair is beside
her, and near it towers the tall athletic figure
of Conyers, in an attitude not so much irresolute
as contemplative, with his eye on the
chair.

It is a comfortable chair, and, as he meets
the side-glance of Eosemary's dark eyes and
Eosemary's smile, he takes his seat there.

Violet sees, without looking at, Eosemary
and her surroundings — has seen for the last half-hour
how mutually absorbed have Eosemary
and Max Randolph been. The conversation in
Violet's own group is not enthralling, although

it ought to be mildly interesting to her, whose
sympathies are always so ready.

She likes Christie, and he is heart and soul
absorbed in talking about a piece of land
lie has just bought, through Mr. Wentworth's
good offices ; the admirable qualities of this land,
^ lake-front, half pine, half hammock,' and his
plans for house and grove, fill the boy to over-brimming.
Mrs. Wentworth much encourages
his enthusiasm, silently hoping that his hearers
may ' go and do likewise ' ; and Violet listens
with apparent interest, and puts in an appropriate

remark now and then. Her face is not
turned towards Eosemary and her court, but
out of the corner of her eye she takes in every
detail of that group.

She coukl have been one of it if she had
liked. She could have had that chair wherein
Conyers has disposed himself. It had been
vacant some time ; she could have sat therewith
Eosemary and Max Randolph. They
were her two best friends and most congenial
spirits. Why had she not joined them ? She
scarcely knows herself, but her attention keeps
wandering across to them, even when Tregelva,
waking up at some allusion that recalls Ascot
to his mind, (from which it and its kindred
occasions appear never to be very far-distant,)
sets off on a train of racing reminiscences. He
always dates everything by the sporting calendar
— 'It was the year when Bras door won

VOL. I. L

the Derby ' ; ' It was just after the Grand
National,' and so on.

Violet does not take any interest in races ;
she does take interest in watching from the
distance how Eosemary draws that laconic
Antinous, Conyers, into sociability, and devotes
more and more attention to him, and less and
less to Max Randolph. A few fragments of
the conversation float to her ears ; she catches
the words of Eosemary's sweet confidential
murmur —

And this little spaniel had the loveliest
long ears, just like satin.'

Then Conyers evidently is wound up to. the
pitch of relating an anecdote, of which Violet
only hears the final words —

I sent for three wets to see it, but the poor
beggar died.'

At this touching crisis Max Randolph gets
up and walks away. Conyers and Eosemary

pursue the line of canine reminiscences with a
mutually confidential air ; and Max, pulling
himself up tall in the lamplight, looks round
at the other members of the party, and comes
across to Violet's side, but only to say ' Goodnight
' and explain that it is time for him to
get home to Martin's.

I saw you slaying the fiddler,' Violet said to
Rosemary that night, in their confidential chat.

Yes,' Eosemary smiled, with a satisfied
air, interpreting this dark saying aright.

Max didn't half like my talking so much
to Conyers. Your Apollo isn't brilliant, Vi ;
but he serves his purpose.'

And Violet wondered, but did not ask, why
Max should care for Eosemary's talking to
Conyers, and whether he cared — much ?

l2

CHAPTEE Viii.

THE OLD WORLD IN THE NEW.

There was to be a dance — a ' lion ' — a reception
— an entertainment — thus it was variously
designated in the neighbourhood — to celebrate
the opening of the great new Osceola Hotel.
All the residents and visitors for miles around
were invited — indeed, a general invitation was
issued to all the world within reach. The
inmates of West Grove House, of course, were
going — at least, a select detachment of them ;
and the questions of the day were, which of the
party were going, how they were to go, and
how they were to dress. Some of the young
men had brought out evening suits in their

trunks, and some of the others had laughed
at them for bringing dress-clothes out to the
backwoods; but now the laugh was turned,
and the happy possessors of the swallowtails
and superfine linen of civilised evening dress
were envied.

Tregelva actually had half a dozen pairs of
white gloves; and as he expressed himself
willing to accommodate his friends by the loan
thereof, he was voted the prince of good fellows.
Unfortunately, he had about the smallest
hand of the whole party ; and Conyers, having
striven in vain to compress his digits into the
limits of Tregelva's gloves, gave it up as a bad
job, and magnificently avowed his intention of
driving to the nearest town to buy a pair.

I'm not going to give three dollars for
gloves to wear one night,' was the sensible
decision of Mr. Staples. ' I shall go without,
or wear my old tan ones.'

I've got two odd ones said Christie,
cheerfully accommodating himself to circumstances
; ' I shall wear one, and carry the other
with an easy flourish.'

I've burst a pair of Tregelva's,' observed
Harrington, ' but I think a burst glove's better
than none ; it shows at least a recognition of
civilised customs.'

The question of the division of the company
in the three vehicles of which the West Grove
stables could boast ran the dress question very
close in the general interest. It was suggested
that Conyers and Tregelva should go in the
single buggy, while Christie gave Staples a lift
in his Macy wagon, and the two girls accompanied
Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth in the double
buggy. This distribution was arranged less
in the interests of the conventional proprieties
of the Old World than out of consideration for
the ladies' dresses, as the large double buggy

was much easier to get into and out of than
either of the other vehicles.

Chaperonage was an institution deemed of
little importance in South Florida at this stage of
its development. The native young ladies not
only dispensed with the ' chaperon,' but turned
the Old World code of etiquette upside down,
by themselves inviting the escorts who found
favour in their eyes ; which custom, being
carried out in the cases of Christie and Harrington,
the two of the West Grove young men
who mixed most sociably with the outer world,
had the effect of causing some alteration in the
proposed arrangements for the drive.

Here ! ' exclaimed Christie, beaming with
broad smiles, as much of amusement as of flattered
vanity, ' what am I going to do ? Here
are two girls who have written to ask me to
take them to the Osceola ball ! '

Take the best-looking ! ' advised Conyers.

Take 'em both,' said Tregelva.

Toss up a coin for it — heads or tails ! '

suggested Staples.

I've got an invitation from a young lady
too, who says she'll be glad of my escort,' said
Harrington, with modest pride. ' I shall have
to hire a trap.'

Seems like the cart before the horse,' observed
Staples, with sturdy conservative disapproval
of innovation, ' for the girls to ask
fellows to take them to a ball. They've queer
ways out here.'

It doesn't speak very well for the chivalry
of the young men about the neighbourhood if
the girls are reduced to ask for escorts,' remarked
Eosemary.

No, really it is quite the other way, Rose,'
said Violet ; ' it is that the girls regard a free
and unquestioned privilege of choice as one of
their natural and inalienable rights.'

Sort of leap-year business,' observed

Tregelva. ' I wonder if they carry it out to
the end?'

May we be there to see ! ' exclaimed Rosemary
— ' to see you all — the whole band and
brigade of you — reluctantly borne to the altar
by conquering crackers ! '

It would take a team of crackers to get
me to the altar,' Tregelva replied, with complacent
security.

They won't try me' growled Staples.

See the dangers of popularity ! ' laughed
Violet, turning to Christie and Harrington, the
popular members of the brotherhood.

They're just as nice, good, well-behaved
girls as any others,' said Christie, always kindly
and fairly disposed towards mankind in general,
including women. ' It's only the difference of
customs.'

'This is just a new country, and they
haven't any manners or customs yet ; they don't
know our ways,' observed Harrington, with a

grand air of kindly tolerance. He probably
also felt his honour engaged in the justification
of the young lady who had shown
her good taste by her choice of him as an
escort.

I think they have manners of their own —
at least, I'm glad they're not ours,' remarked
Staples.

To fail in resemblance to our customs is
of course a grave shortcoming,' said Violet.
But they will improve. Progress is rapid
here. In a very few years this neighbourhood
will be just like a suburb of New York.'

Miss Preston says that, as if to hang on to
the outskirts of New York was getting up to
the top of the ladder,' said Tregelva.

To my mind,' pronounced Conyers, ' New
York is a beast of a place.'

That settles it,' said Violet seriously. ' New
York's doom is sealed.'

The important evening arrived, and, according
to the altered programme, Confess
and Tregelva set ojQT in Christie's ' Macy wagon,'
Staples also accepting a lift therein, and being
relegated, like a sack of goods, to the back of
the wagon, where he sat on the edge, with his
feet dangling, and enjoyed a healthful jolting
which shook him into an even more limp and
loose-jointed condition than usual. Christie,
for whose convenience the exchange of vehicles
had been made, took his fair charge in the
single buggy, while the double one conveyed
Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth, Eosemary and Violet.
Harrington escorted the young lady who had
honoured him by her choice in a hired buggy,
and had all he could do to manse his steed —
an imperfectly broken Texan pony, who started
off with a bolt, and continued bolting at intervals
all the way ; but, fortunately, Harrington's
companion, bred in a frontier Hfe, had good

strong nerves, and could probably have driven
a half-broken horse as well or better than he
could do.

It was a medley crowd that filled the parlours,
the piazzas, the corridors, and swarmed
up and down the stairs, of the Osceola Hotel.
All the visitors and residents for miles around
were there ; ' all ranks and conditions of men,'
from north and south and east and west, and
from the other side of the ' big ferry ' — an
omnium gathered of tourists, settlers, and of
purse a goodly muster of those health-seekers
and fortune-seekers who begin as tourists and
are as likely as not to end as settlers.

The cockney, A-less and complacent, was
represented here ; so was the English aristocrat
and the New York millionaire. Hyde Park
and Fifth Avenue had sent their contingent;
here too was the canny Scot — the best and
most thrifty and industrious of settlers ; and

here his neighbour from the Emerald Isle, come
to seek under another flag the living he could
not make in his own ' most distressful country.'
Here in full force, of course, was the American.
Here were citizens, Republican and Democratic,
from every State in the Union ; the Southerners,
although this region lay so far down in the
sunny South, being, oddly enough, considerably
in the minority.

Every variety of dress was to be seen, from
the correct and conventional evening toilet of
civilised society, to the cureless, collarless
simplicity of the frontier. Violet Preston's
dress, of white nun's veiling, was simple
enough ; but its very lack of adornment was
the cunning of that art which conceals art. It
was eminently becoming to her pure and
delicate beauty; and so thought every man,
while every woman of the outer world appreciated
its perfect taste and style ; only the

pioneer-women would probably have liked it
better had it been more ornate and had a bit
of colour about it ; the tulip would have
pleased them better than the lily.

Eosemary was in black — not sombre black,
but black that was brilliant with shining jet
and beads — transparent black lace revealing
the snowy gleams of her fair arms and shoulders
black relieved by sprays of white flowers
and delicate ferns nestling in the folds of lace
and in the ruddy-golden chesnut of her hair.

There were some ladies in satin, and others
in serge ; one wore a resplendent white silk
which looked like a bridal attire ; others had
morning or walking-dresses smartened up by
bows of ribbon or knots of flowers. Some
were ' beauty unadorned,' while some had
piled on all the ornaments they could get
together, regardless of the motley effect produced
by the juxtaposition of amber beads and

silver arrows or turquoise locket and emerald
brooch.

The styles of dancing were as varied as the
toilettes ; some of the couples seemed to regarda
waltz as an opportunity for acrobatic display,
so wildly did they career down the long room.

The West Grove House party kept together
of course. Max Randolph joined them ;
indeed, being so frequently there, he might
almost be counted as one of the house party.
Then the Staunton House young men came
round seeking introductions to the West Grove
ladies. Mr. Staunton, like Mr. A\Tiitworth,
received a select number of his young countrymen
to board, afforded them opportunities of
studying orange-culture, and gave them the
advantage of his advice and experience in the
matter of purchase of the land he held for
disposal. But Staunton House could boast of
no such attractions as the Whitworths' two soir

guests ; and Mrs. Staunton was just an ordinary,
elderly, busy housewife. So ' the Staunton
fellows ' — as Mr. Wentworth's young men called
them, with a complacent sense of having the
best of it — gathered round the West Grove
House party assiduously ; and Violet and Rosemary,
already engaged a dozen dances ahead,
could have had half a dozen partners each for
every waltz, and really found it difficult to
divide themselves fairly amongst the numerous
aspirants for the pleasure of their hands for
the dance.

Mrs. Wentworth also, a good-looking matron,
and a good dancer, had as many partners as
she could wish. Christie and Harrington
danced, of course, first with their own especial
charges, then handed them over to their friends
and countrymen, to whom also other ladies of
the neighbourhood were introduced.

A young person in a scarlet dress trimmed

with bio bunches of blue artificial flowers, who
had apparently put on all the trinkets pertaining
to her mother and grandmother as well as her
own, bore off the resigned but not too willing
Staples.

Violet could not repress a smile as she saw
him, palpably out of breath, flushed and panting,
looking over his partner's shoulder with
a pathetic expression of endurance as he was
whirled around in the young lady's vigorous
clasp. This trial over, he hastened to Violet's

side with an air of seeking shelter under her
friendly wing.

My word ! ' he said, ' she talked nineteen
to the dozen, and jumped half her own height
in the air at every step ! '

Come, Miss Violet, there's your favourite
waltz,' said Max "Randolph, offering her his
arm as the band struck up ' Sweet Dream
Faces.'

VOL. I. M

Violet looked up in his face with her soft
smiling eyes.

I think I am promised two or three deep
for this already she said, but not very decisively.


If you only think ^ he replied, ' never mind
thought ! Possession is nine points of the law,'
and he slipped his arm round her waist with a
coolly proprietary air.

I was just going to ask you for this waltz,'
said Staples in an aggrieved tone.

Too late ! ' she laughed as she was whirled
away.

On account of the privilege of old friendship,
Max Randolph was favoured by more dances
with Miss Heath and Miss Preston than any
other man there — more, indeed, than the compatriots
of these young ladies considered him,
an alien, fairly entitled to enjoy. He spent
a goodly part of the evening with Miss Preston,

but a goodlier proportion still with Miss Heath ;
indeed the ladies of the neighbourhood derived
but little benefit from Mr. Randolph's presence
at the entertainment.

Once it chanced that he and Conyers, on
their way to ask Eoseraary's hand for the waltz,
arrived at their goal simultaneously, and both
at once got as far as ' Miss Heath, will you — '
before, each perceiving he had not got the start
of the other, they mutually paused. Eosemary
looked up, with her rich dark brown eyes full
of half-mischievous and tantalising sweetness.

Now you both want me to dance ? ' she
said. ' Can I be cut in two like Solomon's
baby?'

It wasn't Solomon's baby,' objected
Conyers ; ' it was the baby he was giving a
judgment about.'

True ; but, anyhow, am I to be treated
like that baby ? '

M 2

'Eather than have you cut in half, I'll
waive my claim,' said Randolph.

'So would I,' added Conyers, thinking it
right to echo this sentiment.

Eosemary looked at the first speaker,
ignoring Conyers' well-meant protestation.

'You haven't a claim to waive,' she observed,
with her slow imperial smile.

Not the claim of old friendship ? ' he
replied.

You might put in that claim with Violet,
but scarcely with me,' she said in a tone too
sweet to be repellent.

« Then it's " off with the old love," is it ? '
he rejoined quickly, prompt to accept a dismissal.
Although he smiled, the smile had a
mocking cast as he spoke of the ^ old love,'
and Eosemary fancied she caught a moment's
glint of displeasure in his eye.

No ; I'll divide — not myself, but the

dance,' she said. ' And the old — friend,' with
a coquettish glance and pause between the
adjective and the substantive, ' shall have the
first turn ! '

What is to become of you now ? ' she
inquired when that turn was over, and, Conyers'
time having come for the latter half of the
dance, Max Randolph had to give her up to
him.

I think I'll ask that comely dame in green
to have pity on me,' he said, glancing at a very
stout and rubicund lady in a bright grass-green
gown with a whole rainbow of feathers and
flowers m her hair.

'Yes, it's just the colouring to please an
artist's eye,' agreed Eosemary ; ' and, like Fair
Margaret in the ballad.

She has kilted her robes of green
A piece below her knee ! '

It was true that the lady's dress was made

of a serviceable walking-length and exhibited
a pair of stout full-sized boots.

Notwithstanding his expressed admiration,
Mr. Randolph refrained from seeking an introduction
to her, and waited for the chance of
a turn with Yiolet, who was then finishing a
waltz with Mr. Harrington.

A couple of dances later on, Yiolet and
Conyers came across Staples, with rather a
forlorn and sulky look, edging his way to
the door.

Not dancing, Mr. Staples ? ' said Yiolet.

No ; there's no one to dance with. You
and Miss Heath are always engaged ; and I've
paid my toll to the natives — they won't catch
me again ! '

I did pity you as I saw you borne along
into the fray,' said Yiolet, smiling at the picture
in her mind's eye.

She jumped more like a kangaroo thana

woman,' said Staples, his grievance still
fresh and green in memory. ' And now just
look at Tregelva's girl : she gets round the
room in six leaps and a bound.'

'I hope the sweet consciousness of duty
sustains him, but I think he'd like to pause in
his wild career,' observed Violet. ' Christie's
partner hops about like a parched pea, doesn't
she ? ' she added, turning her attention to the
next couple.

Staples chuckled, as if he derived some enjoyment
from the contemplation of his friends'
trials.

Harrington's girl is very pretty, and quite
a nice-mannered little thing too,' Violet continued.


She's not bad, as girls go. I danced twice
with her,' said Staples tolerantly.

We are going out on the piazza, the moonlight
looks so lovely,' Violet said as she and

her partner, fair handsome Conyers, handsome
and taciturn as ever, passed out of the
dancing-room.

Fm going to smoke,' observed Staples ; but
after standing about in an aimless hesitating
v^ay for a moment or two, he followed in Violet's
track.

On the piazza, Max Randolph and Eosemary
were seated on a bench just big enough for
two. The manner in which their heads inclined
towards each other as if by the law of natural
attraction, and the fluent murmur of under-toned
voices and low laughter, gave evidence
that they were perfectly and happily absorbed
in each other's society.

Violet and Eosemary never interfered with
each other's flirtations. When one of them
was enjoying a tete-a-tete^ the other never, under
any temptation, intruded upon it. So Violet
and Conyers sauntered up and down and made

remarks about the moonlight. Such moonlight
it was too ! the fiiU white glory of the
Southern night, the whole landscape — the usual
landscape of pine-trees, an orange-grove, and a
lake — bathed in a pearly flood of pure light
like dawn when dawn is just brightening into
day.

The girls' faces were fair in the silvery
beams, whose effulgence brought out every
delicate hne and dimple clear ; and so thought
more than one of the young men who were
lounging on the piazza.

Presently Eosemary glanced up at Tregelva,
who was passing slowly and indolently by, and
stopped him by some casual smiling remark.
Seeing the tete-astute turned into a trio, Violet,
the next time she passed, brought her partner to
a halt ; and then Staples came up and joined
the group. Max Randolph rose and offered his
seat to Violet, and, as Eosemary nodded and

added her sanction to the invitation, she accepted
the offer.

I have danced the shoes off my feet ! '
observed Eosemary, leaning back with a pretty
air of weariness, and looking up at the young
men as they stood round.

Cinderella,' remarked Tregelva, languidly
and not very appropriately, and was corrected
by Conyers, who remarked with the crystalline
terseness which distinguished him —

Cinderella only lost one shoe.'

I've not had such a night's dancing,' continued
Eosemary, ' since I came into exile ! '

Does it seem to you so much like exile
to-night ? ' asked Violet. ' As for me, I really
feel as if I were back in the civilised world ! '

If one could shut one's eyes to the wild
dancing of the aborigines,' rejoined Eosemary.
I think Mr. Tregelva ' — glancing at him with
a smile — ' wished that he was back in the civilised

world while he was being whirled around
by his cracker young lady ! '

By George ! ' Tregelva agreed heartily,
I had to pull her in and take her on the curb,
else she'd have had me clean off my feet ! '

Max Randolph had gradually drifted round
to Violet's side.

Like old days, to-night, somehow, waltzing
to these old tunes,' he observed, bending
over her. ' Do you hate recalling old days ? '

Not when the old days are such pleasant
ones as many we have had,' she replied.

We're none of us in it if they get talking
of old days,' remarked Staples, half-laughingly,
half-gr umblin ugly.

Fm in it, am 1 not ? ' said Randolph, still
looking at Violet. ' We have had good times
on both sides of the ocean, haven't we ? Miss
Eosemary, won't you join in ? '

No ; speak for yourselves, as far as regards

this side of the ocean. I left my good days
behind in my native island, and I don't expect
to find them again till I get back there.'

Now, Eosemary,' exclaimed Violet, ' why
can't you enjoy life just as much here as there ?
Do you like London fogs better than American
sunshine ? '

A great deal better,' said Eosemary
stoutly.

Miss Preston's no true Briton,' observed
Tregelva.

She'll be getting naturalised and turning
into an American citizen some day,' said
Staples.

Well, if she did, her adopted country
would know how to appreciate her,' remarked
Randolph.

You cannot be aware of it, but do you
know that sounds like a compliment ? ' said
Violet wonderingly.

Perhaps I had better retract it ? '

For the sake of consistency, perhaps you
had. You have not the habit of saying civil
things to me.'

He keeps them all for me,' suggested
Eosemary.

You appreciate them ; Miss Violet would
not

You never give me a chance,' replied
Yiolet, smiling up in his face.

Other people would say civil things to
you if you gave them a chance,' put in Staples,
with a rather sulky and shamefaced air.

The notion of Staples saying civil things to
anybody struck Yiolet as so funny that she
laughed outright.

]\iiss Preston doesn't think much of your
powers of making yourself agreeable, Staples,'
remarked Tregelva.

Staples did not accept the challenge ; he

retired into his shell and there shut himself
up, aggrieved.

Presently they all rose to go in. Violet and
Eosemary linked arms and walked together,
the young men trooping round them. On the
top of the broad shallow steps they paused in
the full flood of moonlight that streamed in
between the columns of the piazza.

'Isn't the moonlight lovely?' exclaimed
Violet, looking out across the day-bright grove.

Yes, but there are some pretty things to
look at besides the moonlight,' replied Max
Randolph, who stood nearest to her.

The pearly beams poured on the white
dress and the black — on Violet's pure pale face
and Eosemary's richer and more striking beauty.
Max regarded the two with an artist's satisfaction
in contemplation of the beautiful ; and both
looked up at him — Eosemary with ' that regal
indolent air of hers ! ' the smile that always had

a mockery or a challenge in it ; Violet with her
softer, simpler glance, innocent and confiding,
yet not destitute of just that touch of coquetry
which is second nature to a young and pretty
woman — or at least to ninety-nine pretty young
women out of a hundred.

I have paid you another compliment. Miss
Violet,' he observed.

Was / to have a share in it ? ' she laughed.

A fair half,' said Eosemary.

I leave the division to you, Miss Rosemary,'
he rejoined.

We two divide things equally, don't we,
Vi ? — when we divide them at all ! ' she replied
with a touch of emphasis on the qualifying
final words.

When the two friends were talking over the
evening teie-a-tete in their room, Eosemary confided
to Vi—

Max wanted me to drive back with him in

his trap ; but I thought I couldn't very well do
that. As I had gone with Aunt Em's party,
she might have thought it odd if I hadn't gone
back the same way.'

Was Max, then, falling a victim ? Yiolet
wondered. Had he entered upon that steep
inclined path down which she had seen many
a man slip, to land helpless in the quicksand
of ignominious subjection to Eosemary's
charms, and dependence on Eosemary's caprice.
It did not seem likely, scarcely even possible.
Max Randolph always appeared to Yiolet the
last man to fall in love, or to centre his thoughts
and interests anywhere outside of himself. He
had large capacities for kindness, even tenderness
; but of passion or emotion in him she
never had seen a sign.

CHAPTER IX.

THE OLD, OLD STORY.

Violet had a simple and whole-souled faith
in Eosemary's all-conquering charms. Since
their early girlhood she, Eosemary's only confidante,
had known all Eosemary's life, and had
ample grounds for her estimate of the power of
Eosemary's influence over men.

I have said that both these young women
had left their first love-stories behind ; and here
I should like to go back and pick up those two
broken threads of the past, and briefly tell what
those two stories were.

Violet's was a simple story, and an ' old, old
story ' enough. Of good family, but with her

VOL. 1. N

fair face for her only fortune, the girl, of course,
fell in love with a young man without a penny
of income save what his father chose to allow
him for pocket-money so long as it pleased
him. Both families naturally objected to the
engagement of this impecunious young couple.
Equally naturally, Eomeo and Juliet soared
above such coarse, commonplace, and mundane
considerations ; but eventually, after domestic
scenes, and stolen meetings, and the usual futile
fighting of youth and love against fate as represented
by family and financial difficulties,
the lovers had to part ; and his family prudently
shipped him off to Australia out of
temptation's way. They parted, of course, in a
dream of ' hopeless hope,' of lasting love that
should be ' faithful unto death.'

Arthur Leslie was the first to wake to real
life. His family had procured him a post in
the establishment of a wealthy merchant in

Melbourne, and he evidenced his awakening by
marrying his employer's daughter, who brought
her bridegroom the double dower of beauty
and money. And everybody said what a good
thing it was for all parties concerned — good for
him and good for Yi Preston too, for she never
would have looked at anyone else so long as
young Leslie was free, and now, so pretty as
she was, she might make a good match. Violet
never blamed him ; she constantly averred that
Arthur's course of action was only natural, he
being hopeless of Aer, so many thousand miles
away, and thrown into frequent association
with a lovely girl who was in everything a
suitable mate. And when, not a year afterwards,
came the news of Arthur's death, she
was glad to her inmost heart that she never
had thought hardly of her poor lost love !

And as time passed on, Violet, being a mere
girl in years, and of a healthy elastic temper

2

ment, began to realise that after all there was
a good deal left in life, even though her love-dream
was shattered — then in time to accept
and familiarise herself with the idea that she
should probably marry some day — marry some
wealthy and respectable member of society,
with whom she would not be the least in love,
but to whom she would make a dutiful and
exemplary wife, and whom she would cheerfully
assist in the judicious expenditure of his
money — for money he must have of course ;
that was a sine qua non. Love was buried
in her Arthur's grave ; old-maids was an
unpleasing prospect, which she declined to
contemplate ; there was left, then, an eligible
marriage founded on decorous regard and
general suitably, and this was Violet's fancy
sketch of her eventual destiny. Meanwhile,
being fair and young, and much admired, and
liking admiration, she amused herself by flirting

in an innocent superficial way that did no
much harm, and on the whole she enjoyed her
life.

Eosemary's experience of love had been a
bitterer one than her friend's.

Mr. Heath had two daughters by his first
marriage, Letice and Eosemary, there being
some half-dozen years' difference in their ages.
Their mother died while Eosemary was yet
a child, and two years or so afterwards he
married again. His elder daughter, Letice, a
delicate girl of gentle and reserved disposition,
always from the first got on better with their
stepmother than did Eosemary, a high-spirited
and, to say the truth, somewhat wilful and
troublesome child, who nevertheless was Mrs.
Wentworth's favourite niece and god daughter.
Thus it naturally happened that Eosemary,
especially in her early girlhood, before the
angles of her character and temper got rubbed

down and polished, spent a good deal of her
time away from home with this aunt. The
Whitworths had at that time a pretty little
place on the Thames, and there, one summer,
on boating bent, came the handsomest and
most fascinating man Eosemary had ever seen
one George Raymond.

Her girlish beauty charmed him, and he
made his admiration plain. He knew her
parents ; indeed it was through them that he
had made the acquaintance of the Whitworths.
When in London, he was a frequent visitor at
the Heaths' ; he intimated to Eosemary that it
was his constant thought of her that drew him
to visit at her home even while she was away;
the casket was dear for the sake of the jewel it
was wont to hold. In due season he told his
love to Eosemary in eloquent terms, and won
her promise of love and faith in return. He
explained to her that family matters prevented

his contemplating marriage at present, but intime,
in only a little time, lie might follow the
dictates of his heart and win and wear his
jewel, and so on.

Thus it was, with a happy secret at her
heart, full of hopes and dreams, that Eosemary
returned to her home. She found Letice —
never very strong — looking paler, and seeming
more abstracted than lier wont. These two
sisters had not grown up with the habit of full
and free confidence, partly owing to a vein of
reserve in both their natures, but chiefly because
of the difference in their acre, Letice having
grown to woman's estate, while Eosemary was
still a child. But if there was not an over-confidential
relationship between the sisters, there was
strong affection ; and Eosemary, her perception
quickened by her own love, her own sweet
secret, soon began to suspect that Letice had
her secret too — to dream of confiding in

Letice, and receiving this dear elder sister's
confidence in return.

One day, in a mood of expansion, she went
so far as to confess to Letice that there was ' somebody
' she thought a great deal of, to murmura
question whether there was not a somebody
in Letice's thoughts too. And Letice faltered,
Yes — I can't tell you now, Eosemary dear,
but I will tell you all about it some day — I hope
very soon.' And the very day after this first
approach to confidence a friend of the family
had come to call, who was an old friend of
George Raymond's too, and had told them, as
an open secret, of George Raymond's engagement
and impending marriage ; how he had
long been engaged to his cousin Grace Raymond,
the match, indeed, having been arranged
while the betrothed couple were but children,
and now the wedding-day was fixed.

Eosemary, turning herself from the crimson

of maiden shame to the white wrath of faith
betrayed, cast a look at her sister. Letice,
more deadly white than she, was in no case to
notice her little sister's emotion. She made an
effort to rise from her chair, and framed some
faltering excuse to get away to her own room.
Eosemary, reckless of appearances, sprang up
and followed. She never could bear to think
of that hour — to look back and recall the
interview when the two sisters learnt they had
been doubly deceived, that both their hearts
had been made the playthings of an hour,
treated like wildflowers, to be plucked and cast
aside, the happiness of both sacrificed to the
gratification of one man's vanity. Eosemary
at first would not believe that her lover, her
George, had been Letice's lover too, bound by
vows of eternal constancy to Letice as to herself,
and ail the while betrothed to his cousin.
She caught madly at the hope that he was

somehow wronged — that Letice had misunderstood
him — mistaken brotherly interest for
love. Yet Letice was truthful as daylight,
and the very soul of maiden modesty and
delicacy. No ! Eosemary, struggle as she
would between her faith in her sister and her
lover, could not doubt long where the truth
lay.

Her young passionate heart was strong,
and rose armed in fiery wrath and indignation
against the man who had wronged them both.
But Letice, of a softer mould, and physically
weaker too, sank beneath the blow. The shock
of the sudden discovery of her lover's double
perfidy simply killed her. Heart-disease the
doctors called it ; but that tender heart, weak
though it was, might have beat on for years
had it not been for the fatal hour that wrecked
her love and sank her life with it.

After that scene of cruel disclosure, Rosemary

had to lift her fainting sister in her strong
young arms and can her to the bed she never
left again. And as she sat by her sister, dying
and dead, as she realised what this one man's
holiday pastime had done to them both, in
Eosemary's heart the love was turned to fiery
hate, the milk of tenderness and trust and
faith in human nature curdled to gall. Never
again did the fresh sanguine spring of youth
and hope and love rise in her ; it was
poisoned at its source.

Her bitter brooding resentment of her
sister's wrong and her own soon took the shape
of desire to avenge it on the sex of the wronger.
Her wounded pride was only to be soothed by
fresh conquest. Love was slain by one cruel
stab ; the only balm was the proof of power.
Eosemary, when she put aside the mourning
she wore for Letice, went out into the world
with one purpose — to make the most of her

uncommon beauty to subjugate mankind ; and
as years passed on, and her girlish loveliness
bloomed into splendid womanhood, her vanity
waxed as the anguish of recollection waned,
and full-fed vanity and bitter memories all
alike urged her on the way she had chosen.

She laid herself out to win admiration, love
to lure men's hearts into her hand, that she
might treat them as George Raymond had
treated hers and Letice's. More than once she
had tempted men away from their plighted
troth and honour, won them, not to keep, but
to gratify her thirst of power in the winning,
to hold for a day and then fling them back
disdainfully to their old loves. Over and over
again she had conquered by the magic of her
dark eyes, her deep sweet thrilling voice ; and
the pleasure of conquest had never yet palled
on her. Like Violet, her programme included
,the conventional 'settlement in life.' She

raeant to marry some day when she found a
really brilliant opportunity. Meanwhile it was
a case of 'la reine siamese.'

More than once had it happened that the
victims of Eosemary's ruthless ' amusement '
had confided their griefs and grievances to her
friend Yi Preston. She had seen men's faces
pale and haggard, and boys' eyes dim for
Eosemary's sake, and thus,

Because things seen are mightier than things heard,

she who had witnessed the effects of Eosemary's
conquests had a profound belief in Eosemary's
power, and an equal faith in Eosemary's
promise that she would 'let alone' any
man whom Violet asked her for her sake to
spare. It must be confessed that Eosemary
was just a little vain ; yet not any more self-confident
than circumstances warranted her in
being.

Never yet had Eosemary interfered with
any of Violet's admirers, and never yet had
any man placed these two in the position of
rivals.

Eosemary had twice, but only twice, failed
in vanquishing where she had set her face
for the victory ; and thus there was reason
for the confidence, which Violet implicitly
shared with her, that she could win any one or
more of the West Grove House party whom
she cared to win. But Eosemary did not seem
inclined just at present to concentrate herself
with a view to the undoing of any particular
and especial victim. Probably, as she herself
had observed, regarding the aim and object of
woman's life as the conquest of man, it was a
mistake to ' diffuse one's self ' too much ; but
nevertheless she continued to diffuse herself ina
general distribution of her smiles, or rather,
she shifted and turned their light from one to

another as her changeful moods and fancies
varied.

We may just as well enjoy the season, my
Violet,' she said. ' There's nobody here eligible
enough to think of marrying as Aunt Em has
kindly made us aware. But " unto the day,
the day ! " and we may as well amuse ourselves.'


So the days slipped sunnily by, and the two
friends amused themselves, and not mach harm
was done ; and day after day flax Randolph
rowed across the lake in Martin's boat, or drove
round the lake in Martin's buggy. Sometimes
he brought Mr. Martin with him, but generally
he came alone, as Martin had his own business
to attend to by day, his own friends to look up
in the evening, and was somewhat shy of ladies'
society ; which certainly could not be said of
his friend and ' boarder ' Mr. Randolph, who
almost every fine day set up his easel and

sketch-block in various parts of the Whitworths'
grounds, made sketches of West Grove House
from different points of view ; and drew what
artistic inspiration he could from the orange-groves.


It must be confessed, even by those who
most highly appreciate the beauty of the
orange-tree — with its snowy blossoms, and red-gold
fruit, and rich smooth foliage of deep and
glossy green — that the carefully cultivated model
groves of these beautiful trees, pruned and
trimmed and planted out in level and interminable
straight rows at regular distances in plains
of bare dead white sand, have a monotonous
effect. The unbroken symmetry of these rectangular
ranks has little indeed of the picturesque
to recommend it to the artist's eye. However,
there are satisfactory Florida sketches to be
made of the fair lakes and the graceful pine-trees,
and there is always the wild picturesqueness

of the ' hammock-Ian d ' to fall back upon,
always the beautiful effects of the Southern,
sunsets and twilights and moon rises to study :
so Max Randolph, even professionally, did not
fare amiss ; and socially, with the free run of
the West Grove House, he had certainly as
good a time,' as he and his compatriots put it,
as he could have desired. Figures were not in
his line, except as touches of colour and of
interest introduced into a landscape ; but he
won Mrs. Wentworth's heart by painting and
presenting to her a little water-colour picture
of her Happy Family party assembled on the
piazza ; he also portrayed Eosemary and Violet
in the foreground of a characteristic Florida
scene of palm and pine and lake. He kept this
little study for himself, although both of them
would have been pleased to accept it had he
offered it.

So far as his relations with these two girls

VOL. I.

went, matters remained very much in the same
position as on their first arrival at West Grove
House.

If anything, he and Violet were even more
friendly than ever, more sympathetic, under the
surface of the mimic warfare they often playfully
carried on, more and more contented in each
other's society when they chanced to be thrown
together without other companions — though
indeed this very seldom happened now : and, if
anything, he and Eosemary flirted rather more
than less than of old ; they sometimes played at
being lovers, sometimes played being enemies,
but never succeeded even in playing at being
fraternal friends.

Eosemary made no much difference between
Max Randolph and the rest of the men
there ; he was simply ' one of them ' to her — one
whom she had known a little longer, that was
all. She appeared to realise no essentially

different quality and material in him ; and this
seemed strange to Violet, to whom it was as
clear as daylight that there was no one like
Max. There might be many handsomer than
he was, cleverer than he, better than he ; but
no one quite like him.



CHAPTEE X.

THE HAPPY FAMILY.

Rosemary proved wonderfully successful in
drawing out that taciturn Antinous, Conyers,
who resembled the proverbial ' good boy ' in that
he was generally seen and not heard. She also
got on very well with Tregelva. Both these two
graciously allowed themselves to be amused by
Miss Heath's conversation, while Staples proved
more amenable to the gentle influence of Violet,
who took him in hand with a view to the improvement
of his manners and bearing, which
was certainly desirable. He did not resent her
rallying him on his slouching gait, his poked
head, and deeply pocketed hands.

Could you not get your shoulders a little
higher, and your chin a little lower ? ' she asked
him playfully ; and he showed no sign of being
aggrieved or offended by the undisguised
twinkle of gentle humour in her soft Irish eyes.

'I was afraid you would catch cold in
church to-day, Isle. Staples,' she observed one
day sweetly and seriously.

Why ? ' he inquired , flattered by her apparent
interest.

You took your hands out of your pockets
about the middle of the service, and I thought
they would get chilblains from the unaccustomed
exposure. Still, perhaps it was better
late than never. Do you go to your parish
church at home with your hands kept warm
that way ? '

Were they in my pockets to-day ? ' he
asked simply. ' I forgot. One forgets everything
here.'

Yes, even one's manners ! ' she smiled.

You see lie continued placidly, ' there
isn't anything to think of.'

Yes, there is : there's oranges,' she corrected
him.

I think there's more to be done with
lemons' he said seriously. ' These fellows are
all like sheep — going one after another; they've
all got oranges on the brain. Now, if I could
see a place that suited me '

Which you will readily find, of course, by
lying in a rocking-chair smoking all day, and
never stirring outside the grounds ! '

I was out on Lake Eosahe yesterday.'

Yes, asleep in the bow of the boat.'

I beg your pardon, Miss Preston,' he rejoined,
with unusual politeness and a somewhat
sulky air, ' I was not asleep : I caught that
perch you had for breakfast.'

'In a waking moment. A good perch it

was too. Well, but I interrupted you when
you were just going to tell me what you would
do if you saw a place that suited you ? '

I'd go in for lemons — I think lemons would
pay well ; and I'd put in a good piece of ground
for tomatoes. But I don't see, Miss Preston,
how you can care a straw about lemons and
tomatoes and crops ; you don't belong here, in
this life.'

I am always interested in the life I find
myself living, even if it's only for a season.'

I'm not ! ' he replied. ' I hate it all — at
least I did when first I came. I don't find it
quite so bad now.'

Mr. Staples' crass and unabashed ignorance
of all things that did not come within the
narrow circle of his own individual interests
amused even more than it surprised Violet.
His attitude frequently — but not always, as she
now began to find out — was one of bored indifference

and frank ignorance as to all creation
outside his own personal concerns. And, sofar
as the indifference at least, he was rivalled
by Tregelva and Conyers, who spent their time
chiefly in smoking in the sunshine and the
moonlight, ' dodging ' the sun from the south
piazza to the west piazza, and anon to the
east, when the glare of the sinking sun bathed
the west side in its light. Sometimes they
mustered their energies to take a row on one
of the lakes, and sometimes even to go a-fishing,
at that loveliest hour of the day when the sun
has set in glory but daylight still fills the sky,
when the fish ' bite ' best and give least trouble
to the fisher. Occasionally they rode or drove
to the nearest town, although there seemed to
be nothing much to do when they got there
except to visit the ' bar,' where very bad
whiskey might be procured at a very high
price, and ride or drive back again.

Staples, with all his peculiarities and brusquerie,
was Violet's favourite of these three ;
although she admitted Tregelva to a degree of
favour he had not enjoyed before one day when
she found him and Staples ministering to the
hurts of a puppy, whose paw had been bitten
by one of the bigger dogs. They were on their
knees beside a tub, Staples carefully holding
the pup, while Tregelva bathed the wounded
paw. One of Tregelva's favourite costumes,
which he apparently deemed especially suitable
to Florida life, was a sporting-looking coat and
snowy white nether-garments. He was clad in
these to-day ; and Violet observed, with a
smile, that he was shielding their spotless snow
from contact with the ground by kneeling on a
newspaper the while he tenderly bathed the
puppy's paw.

From that day Violet made up her mind
that Tregelva was a good fellow, because he

was kind to and fond of animals. Nor did she
dislike the handsome, silent, statuesque Conyers,
about whom there was a kind of indolent and
unconscious selfishness which rather amused
than annoyed her. Indeed, she managed to
derive a good deal of entertainment from the
contemplation of the blase and nonchalant
ways of this trio, to whom the dolce far
niente appeared to be the supreme good in
life.

Max Randolph also got on very well with
them ; and Mr. Staples condescended one day
to express a favourable, albeit qualified, opinion
of him.

Randolph's a decent sort of fellow — rather
a good sort for an American. I hate Yankees
generally

So do I,' agreed Tregelva.

Do you know many ? ' asked Violet.

'No,' replied Staples, 'I don't know any

except this Randolph, and that pig of a Collins
Ezra D. Collins — over at Wekiva.'

I don't know any either,' said Tregelva,
and don't want to. Don't think I ever spoke
to any.'

How did you manage to get here then ? '
inquired Violet. ' Crossing the ocean and
coming down from New York, did you travel
locked up in a trunk, or in an iron mask ? '

There were some English fellows on board,'
Tregelva replied, ' and I talked to them. Yes,
by the way,' he added, a shade of interested
reminiscence quickening his wonted lazy drawl,
I did make acquaintance with a Yankee once ;
he looked rather like a gentleman, and I got
talking to him — I smoked a cigar with him. I
thought he seemed a — an intelligent sort of
fellow. He wasn't bad form on the whole — and,
by Jove ! ' — with an air of indolent disgust —
he turned out to be an infernal bateman ! '

I don't like any Yankee I ever saw, except
Randolph said Staples, sticking to his point.

He would not recognise himself under that
denomination,' observed Violet. 'Mr. Randolph
is of a Southern family — born and bredin
the South.'

Does that make any difference ? ' asked
Staples.

Just this,' she replied, with some warmth of
protest, ' that Southerners are no more Yankees
than we are. Didn't you know that Mr. Staples? '

No. How should I understand about
these fellows and their differences ? I know,'
he added, anxious to display his one item of
knowledge, 'that the Southerners wanted to
keep their niggers slaves.'

'You do know thats Well, then, now know
also that neither Southerners nor Western men
are Yankees. The term Yankee only applies
to the inhabitants of the six New England

States — Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Maine, New Hampshire, and Connecticut.'

I wish you'd teach me a Httle more. Miss
Preston,' said Staples. ' I'd like being taught
by you.'

Go home, Staples ! ' remonstrated Tregelva.
You're getting too polite. Your own dog
wouldn't know you ! '

'I think Mr. Staples' compliments are
ironical,' remarked Violet.

No, they are not — I don't take the trouble
to be ironical,' he rejoined.

You do not take much trouble about anything
in life, certainly, any of you three ! ' she
observed.

Young Christie was a great contrast to this
faineant trio — Christie, with his boyish enjoyment
of life, amused and interested in everything,
riding to and from his prized ' ten-acre
lot ' of ' wild land,' returning tired at

evening from a hard day's work at the clearing
thereof, sunburnt, flushed, and weary, but ever
full of schemes and of dreams of the gold to be
picked up from this ' Tom Tiddler's Ground.'

The Eraser boys had also delighted Mr.
Wentworth's heart by buying ; they had got a
large tract of wild pine-land at a bargain, with
the advantage of a lake-frontage too. The
lake languished under the title of ' Need Bug ' at
present, but the Erasers, who had spent several
happy vacations in the English lake country,
intended to call it 'Windermere.' They had
already cleared a small plot in the middle of
their wood, and run up a rough wooden cottage,
and were every day hard at work in the
carpenter's shed in the West Grove courtyard
making their own furniture. These, as Mr.
Wentworth was wont to say, approvingly and
truthfully — these were the boys to get on in
Florida ! — these cheery, healthy, energetic

young fellows, stout of heart and hand, who
would plant and prune the tree, dig the ground,
and chop the wood, and willingly wield

A spade, a rake, a hoe,
A pick-axe, or a bill !

whichever the occasion might demand.

Harrington was always amiably willing to
go about looking at land ; he rode and drove
miles to the north and south and east and
west to inspect groves that were for sale ; but,
to Mr. Wentworth's despair, nothing that he
saw — and every tempting kind of bargain was
shown to him — pleased him sufficiently for him
to write home a decisively favourable account
of it to his guardians, with an application for
the purchase-money. He drove about with
Mr. Wentworth in the buggy ; he hired a horse
and made equestrian excursions, and was in sofar
a satisfactory inmate of the house that he
gave no trouble, paid his board punctually, and

occasionally vouchsafed to go a-fishing and
bring in some piscatory delicacy for the table.

As to Chadwick and Spencer, they devoted
their whole hearts to sport. Little did they
care what tracts of high rolling pine-land could
be had for ten dollars an acre, what desirable
town lots were offered at a tempting bargain
(generally in an unbuilt town), what beautifully
laid out groves of seedlings lay smiling,
promising, at the purchaser's hand, while they
could sally forth on the warpath, armed with
gun and rod, net and knife — while earth and air
and water teemed with living things for them
to kill. Their idea of enjoying an exquisite
morning of blue heavens and balmy breezes — a
sunset hour of golden skies and soft and starless
air — was to go forth and slay something !

The table at West Grove House owed a
great deal to their sporting proclivities. To
these enthusiasts were due the breakfast dishes

of black bass (locally known as trout), and of
delicate perch, the turtle-soup which graced
the board at dinner, the suppers of broiled
quail or wild pigeon — which the inhabitants
insisted on calling ' doves,' to Violet's extreme
disapprobation.

Fancy eating dove I ' she said. ' I believe
they would eat love-birds ! And to my mind
it spoils the flavour of soup to be informed that
the turtle was walking about on the shore of
Lake Eosalie yesterday afternoon, and " Chadwick
put a bullet through its head at sixty
yards." '

'Well, it was a splendid shot,' observed
Eosemary.

The views of these young sportsmen were
not so narrow as to be confined to providing
the table with fresh viands. They were just as
pleased at landing a huge and hideous garpike
— the devouring tiger of the waters, whose

VOL. I. p

repulsive head, with its terrible teeth, they cutoff
and preserved as an ornament to the
smoking-room — as when they brought home
in triumph a fifteen-pound trout, which was
exhibited on the lawn in solemn jubilee to an
admiring conclave before it was conveyed in
procession to the kitchen. They shot black
squirrels and brown, drab squirrels and grey,
some of which were experimentally made into
pies, and turned out very palatable. Their
especial delight, however, was to get a shot at
an alligator, though this unsatisfactory and disobliging
saurian generally sank when shot at,
disappeared in the depths, and left the marksmen
to a lively argument on the question
whether he was hit or not. But, damaged or
undamaged, the wise reptile seldom rose again.
They killed birds enough to fill an aviary
every week, and devoted what little leisure-time
they had to skinning, stuffing, and mounting

their spoils. They presented the birds of
brightest plumage to the ladies for their hats ;
Eosemary had a blue jay in one hat, a cardinal
bird in another ; Mrs. Wentworth mounted a
yellow woodpecker's wing; and even Violet,
although disapproving of this wholesale
slaughter of the innocents, could not say nay to
a rice-bird, With its plumage like softest black
velvet, and its fiery red under wings, which
Chadwick proudly presented to her. Violet
by this time had thoroughly entered into South
Florida life ; she conversed glibly of seedlings
and budded trees, of the risks of lemons and
guavas, so easily damaged or killed by the
occasional frosts that swoop down from the
north even upon these sunny lands of the great
'orange belt' of South Florida. She was
learned on the subject of lake protection, and
quite won ]\Ii\ Wentworth's heart when he
heard her dilating to Harrington on the advance

2

ages of the south side of a lake, whereof the
expanse of water tempers the north wind to
the seething orange. She spoke respectfully
and appreciatively of ' high hammock ' and
rolling pine-lands,' and with a properly disparaging
tone of ' scrub ' and ' flat ' woods.'

She had discovered how far the average
Briton over estimates the necessity of broiled
chops, roast mutton, and fresh milk, of pavements
and made roads, inasmuch as they found
life not not only liable but enjoyable without
any of these luxuries of an effete civilisation.
Beef, poultry, fish, and venison proved sufficient
to keep the table well and variously supplied,
and Swiss milk did very well in their colSee,
while the railway line a little distance off was
good walking, and served for a constitutional
promenade quite as well as a macadamised
road, and much better than the deep, loose,
heavy sand of Florida paths. She grew quite

used to lying back reading a novel in a leaking
boat while Staples or Christie baled the
water out every now and then with a tin pail.
She resigned herself trustfully to driving
through pathless woods in a light buggy that
leapt and plunged over bush and over briar, flew
over fallen trees, and shaved standing stumps
as it dashed and crashed through the underwood
; she learnt to regard these experiences as
rather amusing than alarming, even when the
traces slipped off the bar and the harness came
to pieces, as it very often did. There was not
much of it to come to pieces, that was one
comfort, the process of attaching a Florida
steed to his vehicle being a simple one ; and if
the buggy did break down occasionally, there
had never been any damage done to any of the
party yet by these little mishaps.

Violet still enjoyed pulling oranges fresh
from the bough, and going to a tree only a few

yards from the piazza to pick a couple of
lemons when she and Eosemary had a mind fora
little social lemonade. Nor did the delights
of fresh-plucked guavas pall upon her, and she
mourned sincerely when the cruel frost, coming
unexpectedly one night, nipped in the bud the
fair unfolding promise of Mr. Wentworth's
cherished seedling bananas.

Eosemary looked on at her friend's interest
and enjoyment in this ' level of every day's most
quiet' life with a sort of half-envious, half-cynical
tenderness. She did not care one jot
for the groves and their prospects, the ' lots '
and their prices.

I'm sick to death of it all by this time,'
she said ; ' I got fairly wearied out with it at
Pine Eidge. You are a happy girl, Vi, not to
get bored ; but if you'd been as long in exile at
that wretched Pine Eidge as I have you'd hate
the very name of Florida as I dOr Oh for

London ! Oh for New York ! Oh for bricks
and mortar ! ' she sighed.

But Eosemary, without taking the trouble
to feign an interest in the pursuits of the place,
made herself universally agreeable, and was of
course an object of much admiration in the
little colony ; while, for her part, although she
did not like the primitive simplicity of the life,
she could not be wholly discontented, with
such a regiment of men, and young men, and
most of them fairly well-looking men, around
her.

Let us find out all their christian-names,
Vi,' she suggested one day. ' It's like living
in a boys' school, hearing nothing but surnames.'


You couldn't call them by their christian-names
if you knew them,' remonstrated Violet.

Eosemary laughed.

I should like to address Tregelva by some

tender diminutive. He looks like a Bertie. I
should like to call him Bertie.'

Conyers ought to be a Hugh observed
Violet ; ' there always seems to be a sort of
stolid solidity about Hugh.'

And what ought Staples to be ? '

Staples ? Oh, he can't be anything more
romantic than a Joe ! ' laughed Violet.

However, when Eosemary put in practice
her idea of asking the christian-names of the
household brigade, it turned out that Mr.
Staples had a legitimate baptismal right to the
well-sounding penmen of Archibald St. Julian,
while the classic-featured Antinous was simple
James, and Tregelva answered to the aristocratic
appellation of Thomas. Young Chad wick
was Cecil Vivian, Harrington was Theodore,
and Christie was Richard, but to his family
always and only known as ' Dick,' which, both
the girls agreed, suited him to a nicety.

CHAPTEE XL

IN ARCADIA.

It was a rare sunset one evening, when the
usual piazza party — to wit, Messrs. Tregelva,
Conyers, and Staples, Violet and Eosemary —
were lounging in their accustomed places.
Often and often they had enjoyed the contemplation
of clear and cloudless sunsets — seas of
scarlet Hight washing over the whole west ; but
seldom had they seen such stormy glory as lit
up the sky this evening. Piles and piles of
gorgeous golden clouds loomed up into the
azure like mountains of hj^ht, filling the whole
hemisphere with wild and tempestuous splendour
of colour — lurid yellow blaze dashed with

purple shadow, shining slopes and peaks struggling
to climb up above lowering wreaths of
night-black cloud, while through the pine-trees
the mirror-clear lake seemed turned to molten
gold.

Eosemary began singing softly an impromptu
parody on ' The Three Fishers.'

Three loafers sat gazing out into the west ! '

Why three, Miss Heath ? ' asked Staples ;
why don't you say five ? Aren't you and Miss
Preston loafing too ? '

Ladies don't loaf, Staples,' said Tregelva
reprovingly. ' They repose ! '

^ Out into the west as the sun went down

Eosemary continued in her sweet contralto tones.

Each thought on the woman who loved him the best.'

I can't get any further,' she observed, indolently
dropping her song.

'No,' said Tregelva. 'Let's stop at the

women who love us the best ! It's a very good
place to stop at.'

Where are they ? ' demanded Eosemary.

Who are they ? ' asked Conyers.

The girls we've left behind us ! ' Tregelva
quoted in reply.

Poor girls ! ' said Violet compassionately
How sad they must be feeling ! '

Perhaps they have found someone else,
or several somebody else, to dry their tears,'
suggested Eosemary.

I bet they have,' growled Staples.

Go ye and do likewise,' Eosemary observed
demurely.

Good advice ! ' said Tregelva. ' Quand on
n'a pas ce qu'on aime, il faut aimer ce qu'on a ! '

Tregelva's French accent was not bad for a
true-blue Briton.

What does that mean ? ' inquired Staples,
with his usual open and unabashed ignorance.

'Mr. Archibald St. Julian Staples,' said
Eosemary, glancing up at him in half impatient,
half-disdainful disapprobation, ' did jour parents
send you to school ? '

Yes ; there's been money enough spent on
my education,' he replied.

'But not much to show for it,' retorted
Eosemary, who, like Violet, had the habit of
making Staples a butt for raillery, though in a less
gentle and friendly tone. She had no patience
with him, she was wont to say, whereas Violet
manifested a great deal of that excellent virtue
in his regard.

Not being ready at retort. Staples leant a
stolid shoulder against the column of the
piazza, looked straight before him, and puffed
at his pipe not much more sulkily than usual.

Violet came to the rescue.

Were you at college ? ' she asked with
mild interest.

No. I was ploughed for small. Then I
had another chance given me, and I failed for
that too.'

What a shame to put young men to such
stiff examinations ! ' Violet observed sympathetically.


It wasn't particularly stiff he replied candidly.
' I could have got through easily enough
if I'd worked at all ; but I never did work —
never saw why I should. Always thought I
was all right, till my old uncle went and
married a young woman! If I'd known
he was going to do such a thing, why, I
suppose I should have read books like other
fellows ! '

Don't you care at all for reading, then ? '

No ; I don't care for anything — at least, I
only like a few things. I like music, and
horses, and dogs.'

'Miss Preston has seen you ride, and has

heard you swear,' remarked Tregelva ; ' but stir
hasn't heard you sing yet.'

Do sing to us, Mr. Staples ! ' said Eosemary.
I should like to hear you sing.'

I sing in the small hours of the morning,'
he replied seriously.

Well, we could sit up, or rise early. I got
up once to see the sunrise from the Eigi ; and I
dare say it would be quite as well worth while.'
But Staples shook his head.
I don't think you will hear me sing.'
The tropical twilight closes swiftly, like a
curtain of shadow dropped upon the scene ; the
golden clouds of sunset pale and die into misty
greys and blues ; and on the piazza, though
the dark has fallen, the little group linger still,
chatting, laughing, rallying each other, until
a murmur of eager voices from within the
house attracts their attention ; and, eager for
the smallest diversion, they one and all hasten

indoors and find in the central hall the two
Fraser boys, Spencer, and Harrington, all
grouped in a circle around young Chadwick, who
stands under the lamp, with a smile of modest
triumph on his boyish beardless face. He hasa
gun, as usual, in one hand. With the other he
holds up, suspended by the wings, an unhappy
owl — an enormous bird, which hangs flaccidly in
his grasp. At the first glance the new arrivals
can scarcely tell whether it is alive or dead, but
are soon enlightened by the remarks of the
surrounding group.

Don't touch it. It'll bite.'

^ They've awfully strong beaks.'

It would eat a live mouse.'

'We haven't got a live mouse.' It is
Conyers who offers this practical objection.

It won't eat.'

It won't live.'

Put it in a cage.'

Oh, poor thing ! let it fly ! ' pleads Yiolet.

It can't fly. Its wing is broken.'

And so is its leg.'

Oh, d it, kill the poor brute ! ' says

Staples with just a shade less indolent indifference
than usual.

And after a variety of conflicting counsels
and suggestions, it is his advice that is taken, it
being decided by the majority of votes that the
owl is too badly wounded to recover.

Young Chadwick, still cheerful and complacent
— as willingly accepting the alternative
of making a target for the second time of his
unlucky captive, as that of keeping it in a cage
and feeding it on live mice — bears his prey off
into the garden, Harrington and Spencer following
to witness the execution.

Staples steps aside to the smoking-room
door and begins to fill his pipe, growling in an
undertone :

That fellow hasn't got any more feeling
than a flea ! '

Violet is standing near him ; and they are
sympathetically expressing congenial humanitarian
sentiments on the subject of sport in
general and the injured owl in particular, when
two shots are heard in quick succession from
the garden, and then an exclamation of —

I declare ! It's not dead yet ! '

Staples turns abruptly, flings down his pipe
and tobacco-pouch, with a string of expletives
more or less unfit for ears polite, clears the
whole flight of piazza-steps at a bound, and
rushes across the lawn in the direction of the
shot?.

Violet runs out too, and follows him into
the darkness of the moonless night, wherein
she can just discern two or three black figures
standing round a tree, and a shapeless fluttering
something suspended from a branch.

VOL. I. Q

Violet shudders a little as the figure she
knows must be Staples seizes the dark fluttering
thing, and she hears the sound of an almost
human groan ; then, a moment afterwards,
Staples observes in calm and satisfied tones :

That's done ! '

Oh, don't you feel rather like a murderer
? ' she asked.

No, I feel as if I'd done one good thing
to day,' he replied. ' It was a good deed to
put that poor brute out of its pain.'

Then supper-time came, and Max Randolph,
whom Mr. Wentworth had hospitably invited
to drop in and sup ; he rather liked Randolph,
and, moreover, saw in him a possible purchaser
not in a large way of course ; that could not
be expected of a roving artist, but Mr. Whit-worth
had some choice small five acre groves
on his list at modest prices eminently suitable
for an artist's investment. And after supper

they, as usual, sat out-of-doors a little while,
Staples installing himself beside Violet, whilst
Eosemary was a rose between two thorns, viz.
Randolph and Conyers, and was perfectly well
able to manage two thorns, three thorns, or
even four thorns at once. Tregelva and Harrington
were talking sport, and Chadwick relating
the episode of the owl.

Staples is a humanitarian,' remarked Tree
' His language was choice when Chadwick
shot the bird and didn't kill it.'

You don't care for sport ? ' Violet observed
to Staples.

I like hunting big game,' he said. ' I'd
like to hunt buffalo. I've been on an elephant-hunt
in India. That's sport, when the elephant
comes crashing through the wood, and you
dodge and run for your life ! But I don't see
what you want to go and shoot poor little birds
for. They're harmless little things ; and they're

Q 2

pretty ; and they sing I like music. Won't
you sing to us this evening ? '

Certainly — by-and-by/

And by>and-by, when, one by one, they all
had retreated from the falling night-dews and
moved into the parlour, the piano was opened,
and Staples lent his valuable assistance to Violet
in looking over the music.

Staples might be, as he expressed himself,
fond of music ; but it was very evident that his
education in that art had been neglected. He
offered homage at a distance, and had never
sought an intimate knowledge, or indeed any
acquaintance at all with the muses.

I'd like to learn the piano,' he observed,
watching Violet's fingers run lightly over the
keys. ' Are the black things sharps ? '

No,' she replied gravely, ' they are flats.'

Where are the sharps, then ? ' he inquired ;
^ there are sharps in a piano, aren't there ? '

'Yes, and elsewhere sometimes,' she remarked,
' but there isn't one very near here at

present ! '

I suppose you mean you think I'm a flat,

Miss Preston — is that it ? '

'By no means,' she replied pleasantly.
You're in my good books to-night, and I do
not mean to say anything abusive.'

Staples smiled ; he had one of those sweet
smiles that often lighten up a somewhat sulky,
heavy, downcast face. Violet had lately discovered
that he had rather good eyes— large
dog-like brown eyes— which now and then
had something of the soft and dreamy wistfulness
of an affectionate dog's upward look.

Musical evenings were now a regular institution
at West Grove House ; and the entertainment
had developed in variety as, one by one,
other performers had consented to be drafted
into the programme. Harrington had a fairly

good tenor voice ; and the eldest Fraser could
sing one song — at least he had never been
known to sing any other ; his one song was the
Midshipmen.' Even Conyers had once been
beguiled into uplifting a passable baritone voice
in melody ; but Staples could never be induced
to do more than join in chorus. There were
certain stock favourite songs which were always
in demand. Eosemary was strong in songs of
emotion and sentiment, and operatic airs, and
her small but select audience were never tired
of hearing the pathetic passion of her rich
contralto thrilling in the ' Good-byes I ' and ' Forever
and for ever's,' of modern love-songs, while
her dramatic rendering of the ' Habanera ' air
from ' Carmen ' never failed to rouse a stir
of something like enthusiasm in even this unemotional
audience.

Violet had struck out rather a specialty for

herself in the line of the more pathetic of the

negro melodies. She delighted everyone with
the dear familiar old plantation song of the
Suwanee Eiver,' which, somehow, well-known
as it is, yet never seems to become hackneyed.
She distinguished herself in the pathos she lent
to the quaintly characteristic ballad of ' Rosa
Lee,' and always sang the solos in the equally
characteristic negro hymns which were popular
on Sunday evenings at the West Grove, the especial
favourite being that one with chorus of —

Oh, dem golden slippers !
Oh, dem golden slippers !
Golden slippers we's wine to wear
To walk de golden street !

in which all the brotherhood would join in
lustily, Lorenzo and Beverley generally listening
in the hall delighted, and smiling from ear
to ear. Although it takes a negro voice and
accent to give the full aroma and flavour to
these negro melodies, yet Violet had a certain
soft and pathetic thrill in her voice which

suited them — at least suited those which had a
touch of pathos, and the purely comic ones she

never sang.

This night Max Randolph, as usual, took up
his position by the piano and turned over the
leaves. He almost always did so ; it had become
an institution that this should be his post.
Conyers sat by the table in a statuesque but
comfortable pose, with folded arms. Tregelva
leant back in an arm-chair, languidly caressing
his fair mustache. Staples, seeing Randolph in
possession of the post he secretly coveted, but to
which he had never yet attained, had cast himself
limply, as if his joints all hung loose, on a
sofa in a remote corner. Christie, tired outwith
a hard day's riding, stretched himself full
length, with a frank word of apology, on the
other sofa, accepted the musical performance of
the evening as a serenade, and to all appearance
availed himself of it as such.

Violet had been singing the 'Chanson de
Fortune ' — that most dainty and graceful of
]ove-songs ; and no voice was better fitted
to express its exquisite delicacy and tenderness
than hers.

Je fais ce que sa fantaisie

Veut m'ordonner,
Et je veux, s'il lai faut ma vie,

La lui donner !
Mais j'aime trop pour que je di

Qui jose aimer,
Et je veux mourir pour ma mie,

Sans la nommer ! '

Staples might have liked these words if he
had understood them, but in the present stage
of his education their simple charm was wasted
upon him. He liked what he could comprehend,
and so presently from his distant sofa
came a mournful entreaty —

Please sims '' Eosa Lee," Miss Preston.'
Most musical, most melancholy,' Rosemary
commented on the lugubrious tone. ' Eeallv,

Mr. Staples, you ought to be a nightingale
yourself !

It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
That pierced the fearful hollow of mine ear.'

Violet was looking through a book of
ballads with Max Randolph, and, I fear, did not
bestow on Staples' pathetic appeal the attention
it deserved.

In a few minutes the despondent pleading
from the sofa was reiterated —

I wish you would sing " Eosa Lee," Miss
Preston.'

Still Violet, absorbed with Max, was inattentive,
until a third time a voice, that had
sunk to the deepest depths of dejection, besought
her —

Oh, do sing " Eosa Lee," Miss Preston ! '

Then Violet at last put down the book of
ballads, and vouchsafed to treat him and the rest
of the company to the musical history of the love

and death of that black and beauteous Eose,
whose ' Feet so large and comely too ' seem to
have been one of her chief charms in the eyes of
her faithful 'foolish Joe.' Possibly with a view
of atoning for her previous lack of attention,
Violet now threw unusual pathos into the final
lament —

U-la-ila ola-ee !
Rosa sleeps in Tennessee !

Staples was so well pleased that he got off
the sofa and slouched across the room to the
piano. As he neared that goal he suddenly
remembered that his hands were buried deeply
in his pockets, and plucked them forth with as
much alacrity as was compatible with his
general measureless, not to say laziness, of movement.


Violet noted the action and appreciated
It.

Good boy ! ' she said with an approving

smile. ' I shall turn you out quite a reformed
character yet ! '

Why, Vi, do you think there's any room
for improvement left ? ' exclaimed Eosemary.

It's clear you do, Miss Heath,' with the
faintest touch of resentment in his tone.

I would fain be polite,' Eosemary replied,
but stern conscience will not allow me to deny
the charge. I think there is still a little room
for — polish.'

Staples never entered into a war of words
with Eosemary — perhaps because he was so
well aware that he would get the worst of it.
He kept close by Violet, and presently took
advantage of Max Randolph's transference of
attention to Eosemary to observe, with a sort
of grievance in his air —

I suppose I'll never get the chance of
turning over your music for you. It's always
Randolph.'

You should turn over if you were near
Violet replied amiably, 'but you never are
near ! '

I will be next time, if you'll let me.'

But Violet would commit herself to no
promise beyond

First come, first served.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

riUXTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQL'ABK

I-ONDoX

Now reads, the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY. By John Strange Winter. Author of
Booths' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6.1. ; also picture boards, 2s.

Garrison GOSSIP. Gathered in Blanbhampton. By John
Strange "Winter. Cloth pitt, 3*. 6d. (Third Edition.)

IN THE Shores. By Sir Sandal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth
gilt, 3.?. Hd.

THE GIRL IX THE Brows: Habit : A Sporting Novel. By
Mrs. Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3*. 6d.

BY WOMAN'S WIT. Bv Mrs. Alexander, Author of 'The
Wooing O't.' Cloth gilt, 3*-. 6d. ( Third Edition )

KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs. Edward Kennard, Author
of • The Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, Zs. 6d.

IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs. H. Lovktt Cameron. Author
of ' A North Country Maul ' &c. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt,
3*. 6(7. ; also picture boards, 2s.

THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

THE BOND OP WEDLOCK. By Mrs. Campbell Prayed, Author
of ' Nadine.' Cloth gelt. 3«. 6d

STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Mrs. Edward Kennard. Cloth
gilt, 3s. 6d.

F. V. 'WHITE & CO.,
31 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W.C

^ ■ - 1' *-iK':' .

M^ M

jiCt-^

:C^-^'

•J,«LE,f

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

SEP 3 198

,.

L161— O-1096

THE STORY OF A WINTER IN FLORIDA

BY

IZA DUFFUS HARDY

AXJTaOR OF 'HEARTS OR DIAMONDS?' 'THE LOVE THAT HE PASSED By'
'ORANGES AND Alligators' ETC

'Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell:
It fell upon a little western flower, —
Before milk-white, now purple with Love's wound —
And maidens call it Love-in-idleness ! '

A Midsummer NigMs Dream

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL II.

F. V. WHITE & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, Malcontents





OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XII. A Woodland Drive 1

XIII. * I Leave You Free ! ' . . . .23

XIV. A Breach of the Monotony . . . . 43
XV. In the Toils 63

XVI. Only a Kiss! 89

XVII. A Moonlight Tryst 115

XVIII. La Belle Dame sans Merci . . . . 135

XIX. In Opposition 158

XX. Good-night and Good-bye! . . . . 170

XXI. Out of the Wood 203

XXII. On and Off ' Tom Tiddler's Ground

' 223

-•o*-

CHAPTER XII.

• A WOODLAND DRIVE.

Rosemary and Violet are out driving, but not
together — at least not in the same vehicle.
Eosemary, on the box-seat of the leading carriage,
is enjoying an embarrass de recesses in
the form of the company of Messrs. Tregelva,
Conyers, and Staples ; while Max Randolph
follows with Violet in the buggy.

They are passing through a tract of ,
the most picturesque land in Florida.
The wild tropical jungle of the hammock
is a welcome relief from the mono-vol.

ir. B

tony of the fair and peaceful level sweeps of
the so-called ' rolling pine-lands,' the undulations
of which are so gradual as to be all but
imperceptible.

Here the road is cut through a dense,
tangled, and impassable wilderness of giant
magnolia-trees, gnarled oaks, graceful cedars
and gum-trees — tall cypresses with their bare
white branches heavily veiled by the long grey
Spanish moss that clings and wreathes around
them — here and there a stately palmetto rearing
its beautiful fan-like crown — all the forest trees
running wild, and all matted and woven together
with interlacing vines that twine and
trail about them in rank luxuriance, as if to
stifle the live branches in their close embrace.
Vines and trees rise out of a dense abundant
undergrowth of palmetto scrub, bristling with
keen lance-like leaves. Now and then a break
in the wilderness reveals the green deeps and

glassy shallows of the swamp, in whose stagnant
pools lie prone the trunks of fallen trees, float
the feathery water weeds, the platter-like leaves
of lilies not yet in bloom.

Pretty bit here, eh ? ' observes Eanclolph
appreciatively, but enthusiastically according
to his wont.

Beautiful ! ' says Violet more warmly.
You should take this for one of your sketches.
You might look a long way before you would
get a more characteristic view of Florida landscape
at its best.'

Is it better, do you think, than that bit of
hammock down past the railway-bridge ? ' lie
asks, with that air of sincerely appealing to
another's taste or judgment which is the most
delicately pleasing form of flattery.

While the road leads through the wilderness
of the hammock there is little conversation
between these two except comments upon then

2

tropical beauty of the scene, as there is not
much hammock-land in the near neighbourhood
of West Grove House, and consequently
a good deal of admiration to be lavished upon
it. But when they have passed through it and
are out in the more sparsely wooded pine-lands
again, when they have made one or two
appreciative remarks on the lovely tender
green of the sapling pines and the rich russet
of the black-jack oaks, they wax conversational
on topics unconnected with the landscape.

Did you see in the papers to-day all that
about Julie Cassius's case ? ' inquires Violet.

Yes, I saw it. Bad business.'

Poor Julie ! it's very sad. She never
cared a straw for that old man.'

Don't waste your pity on her. Everybody
knew she didn't care for old Cassius,
but I don't see why lie's to be compassionate.
When a girl marries a fellow without caring

about him, I haven't any sympathy with her.
She oughtn't to do it,' Max pronounces with
ruthless directness.

Certainly she ought not,' Violet agrees,
but there are often excuses to be made for
her, which you don't seem to see.'

'The excuse was visible enough and tangible
enough in this case,' he replies — ' a good,
solid, substantial excuse. The price was high.
I don't know that our boasted civilisation has
much to be proud of in its social morality.
The modern marriage-mart is a very short step
in advance of the slave market. I suppose
there is a woman here and there who doesn't
put herself up for sale ! '

It's scarcely fair to express it that way,'
Violet responds. ' As a rule a girl is passive
in the process ; she is pushed into it. You
don't seem to take into account the intangible
pressure that surrounds a woman from her

very earliest years — the idea she draws in with
the very air she breathes, that her destiny is
marriage, her duty to herself and to lier
neighbour to make a good match. Your sex
have the best of it ; no such subtle meshes
entangle their free action. All social influences
drive a woman into marriage, while they
leave a man free to choose whether he will
marry or not.'

Why must a woman marry ? ' he demurs.
Are women such weak creatures they can't
stand alone ? '

With a surplus of — how many hundred
thousand is it? I like to be correct in my
statistics — of course just so many thousand
must stand alone. But I don't suppose any
woman likes it. When a woman can't stand
without you' Violet adds incisively, ' she's an
ideal woman — the clinging vine. When she
can't stand without some other man, then you

find out the poor weak vine's a contemptible
plant.'

It would be only natural I should admire
the vine that had the good taste to want to
cling round me,' he rejoins drily. ' I must
confess that vines are not given that way
generally. As a rule, you'll observe, that kind
of vine has a good deal of discrimination.
Those tender clinging plants know very well
what they're about ; they mostly want to cling
round a golden prop.'

Not all of them,' with a touch of seriousness
in her gentle voice ; ' they have been
known to twine fast round a ruined, leafless
old oak. But that stock old simile of the vine
is not universally applicable to all women.'

No,' Max agrees willingly,' * it's not.
Fancy Miss Eosemary in the character of a
vine — Miss Eosemary clmgiiig round anybody
! '

Eosemary is certainly very well able to
stand alone, but not from any lack of feeling
or affection,' replies Eosemary 's friend
loyally. ' She may not care for many
people, but when she does care she cares
very much.'

I shouldn't have given Miss Eosemary
credit for caring very much for anybody but
herself.'

And, I suppose, you have told her so ? *

I think I have intimated as much to
her — more than once.'

If Eosemary returned half the affection
she has received, she would need a heart as
big as a house,' observed Violet.

Wide as the church door and deep as a
well,' he added — ' an open door to invite the
victims in, and a well to drown them in —
like kittens.'

Kittens are drowned in a pail, not in a
well,' she corrected him.

Can't expect accuracy when we're talking
about Miss Eosemary. The deepest feelings
always fail in expression.'

How very deep Conyers' feelings must
be ! ' she laughed.

Is he a victim ? ' Max inquired.

I don't know. We haven't quite made
up our minds yet whether he doesn't talk
because he has nothing to say, or because he
thinks that if he wasted his precious words it
would be casting pearls before swine. But,
anyhow, he leaves a good deal to our imagination.'


While I make no secret of my sad plight,
eh?'

Is your plight so sad a one ? '

Am I not rolled and smashed beneath the
wheels of Miss Eosemary 's Juggernaut car ? '

Flattened out ! ' she replied gaily. ' Nota
whole bone in you ! Well, anyhow, it will

broaden your mind and give you sympathy
with your fellow-victims

Misery loves company,' he observed. ' Do
you think I am very hard and narrow, then —
that I need to learn sympathy with other folks'
troubles ? '

You seem sometimes a little hard. But I
fancy it is only seeming,' she said.

No, don't think that,' he replied brusquely.
I'm as hard as nails ! Miss Eosemary has
found out my only weak point,' he added more
lightly. ' Only one soft spot, and she's hit it ! '

She has certainly effected a change in
you,' said Yiolet, with a demure little smile ;
you used only to talk of yourself ; and now
you talk of her'

Of course I do. What else would you
have me talk of ? Isn't she the irresistible ? '

/ think she Z5,' answered Violet, and for a
moment there came a sort of seeking, a vague

questioning, into lier soft blue eyes as they
turned to meet his.

I believe you really do ! ' he said, looking
at her with the piercing gaze that seemed to
read so much and told so little. 'So I used
only to talk of myself?' he added. 'Well,
did it bore you very much ? '

I am of a patient disposition,' she replied ;
I was resigned to it.'

Taking advantage of this encouraging admission,
Max Randolph proceeded to treat
Violet to a little further discourse upon that
interesting subject — himself. He made sundry
autobiographical allusions to his successes and
failures in the past and prospects for the future,
but told her nothing she did not already know,
nothing personal nor confidential, except, indeed,
so far as references to his own incapacity
for deep feeling, his lack of any settled faith,
and his conviction that happiness was always

more or less of an illusion and a dream, might
be considered as confidential. He consulted
her about his Florida pictures ; the naming of
them, and the most suitable style for the
framing of them ; he asked her advice in the
matter of poetical quotations for mottoes to
supplement their titles. He was especially interested
in one picture he was then beginning,
which was to be a study of the flat Florida
pine woods pure and simple — the everlasting
pines in their level ranks, and nothing else.
Violet thought it a doubtful experiment to
choose so monotonous a theme, not even humanised
by a figure in the foreground nor
warmed up by the rosy glow of sunset.

It seems to me difficult and daring,' she
said, ' not because you are in the least likely
to fail in painting the pine-lands exactly as
they are, in faithful portraiture, but because I
do not see how, in the narrow limits of your

picture — no matter whether you make it two
feet square, or three, or four — it is possible to
give the effect of vastness and distance — the
impression of inimitable reach, that is almost
oppressive, which seems to be the especial
characteristic of these rolling pine-lands, as
they call them, though the " roll " is perfectly
imperceptible.'

He smiled appreciatively.

That is just the impression I aim at producing,'
he said. ' We'll see when the thing's
finished whether you think I've succeeded or
failed in the attempt ; and you must tell me
frankly.'

I don't think I generally err on the side of
paying you compliments,' she observed. ' Now
about the quotation : couldn't we find some
short passage from Ruskin ? — he has written so
much about pine-trees. Doesn't lie say somewhere
that the chief pleasure he had in reading

his own old books was the sense that he had at
least done justice to the pine ? '

But Ruskin wrote, I fancy, always of the
mountain pines of the North,' Randolph replied.
These Southern pines of the plains are of a
different type. Sidney Lanier (our Southern
poet, whose work I'm afraid you don't know as
well as you ought to) has written of these.
There's one passage of his I remember ; I can't
recall the ivords, but the effect is that the
mountain pines stand upon " the corrugations
on the brow of the earth." They represent the
spasms, the desperate struggles, that have upheaved
the hills ; they are as the crown of
stern conflict. But these — the pines of the
plains — are the unruffled brow of a restful
earth ; they signify the mystery of repose, the
grandeur of tranquillity, not of storm. That's
about as near it as I can recollect. And Lanier
adds that these level, rolling pine-lands always

seem to preach — wliicb, I think, is a true
bill;

Yes,' Violet assented, ' these woods are
Nature's churches. Your Southern poet has
seized the different characteristics of the pine-lands.
The dark mountain pines are peace ;
but it is the high, hard-won peace one has
climbed and fought to attain — stern repose on
the heights after the struggle upwards. These
Southern woods lie at rest in a tranquillity that
tells of no battle.'

They have no story to tell,' he observed,
but we both agree they have their sermons to
preach. Perhaps that's why one gets so tired
of them ; I don't like being preached at.'

It would be waste trouble, I should think,'
she rejoined ; ' I'm afraid one would preach at
you in vain.'

I believe there's a hollow in my head
where the organ of veneration should rear its

dome,' he agreed. ' Sometimes I wish I Jiad
the faculty of faith. I have sometimes felt I've
come near it at sea — out in the middle of the
ocean — or up in the mountains. Mortal man
never preached a word that seemed to bring it
near to me ; but the sea and the rolling prairies
seem to be telling us something, if we could
understand what they said.'

Violet remembered Kingsley's lines —

I cannot tell what you say, green leaves,

I cannot tell what you say ;
But I know there is a spirit in you,

And a word in you this day !

She quoted the verses in her soft voice, which
had a peculiar quality of purity and dreaminess
in it — the same sort of spirituality that sometimes
looked out of her deep eyes when they
seemed to be gazing far away into dreamland.

She was enjoying her drive very much, and
although the sun was burning like a fierce
flame in the sky she did not rejoice that they

were rolling rapidly on the homeward road.
They were just coming to a wide sluggish
stream or creek, which crawled — too sleepily
^ ^ to stir the thick growth of water weeds on its
bosom — between one of the numerous lakes
and one of the swamps, which in that favoured
neighbourhood were happily less abundant.
Across this creek was a rude bridge, composed
of roughly-sawn planks laid together, and
holding towards a proper civilised bridge the
same relationship that a ' corduroy ' road holds
to a macadamised city street. On the near side
of the creek stood a figure which appeared to
them familiar, and as they approached they
recognised Mr. Staples.

Why, what are you doing here ? We
thought you were in the other carriage ahead
of us.'

I was waiting for you, to tell you to lookout
about crossing here. Just see ! we've car-vol.

II.

red away a piece of the bridge with us. One
of the horses got his foot down between two of
the loose planks, and kicked one plank clean
up and out. It went down in the creek over
there ; we nearly went over too, only Tree
a first-rate hand with horses, and he
pulled us through. I thought I'd better wait
for you and warn you.' He was looking at
Violet as he gave his lucid explanation, and
she rewarded him by her kindest smile and
sweetest words of thanks.

The gap in the bridge which he pointed
out was clearly perceptible to the naked eye ;
the only wonder that struck them in looking
at it was that a similar incident did not occur
every day, as the planks, of which one was
missing, were simply laid loosely side by side
across the two great pine-tricks which formed
the foundation of the bridge.

You had better get down and walk across,

Miss Violet said Eandolpli. 'I'll take the
horse across, and the buggy can go anywhere
could almost clear the stream without a
bridge at all.'

Staples offered his hand to help Violet
down. Then she turned, as if she expected
Max Eandolpli to follow.

'Are not you coming?' she asked. 'I
thought you'd lead the horse across.'

Lead the horse ! ' he laughed. 'Go on,
you two, first.'

They crossed the bridge. Staples assiduously,
but unnecessarily, offering to assist Violet
across the gap, and drawing her to one side of
the road clear of the wheels of the buggy when
it followed them. Violet watched with a little
thrill, half of pleasure and half of fear, as Randolph
gave the horse a touch; the animal made
a plunge and a spring forward, a start and
swerve at the gap ; the light buggy rocked

c 9,

and leapt, and was over and safe beside
them.

Well, now, you can take me up again,'
lie said, looking up at Max with soft and
smiling eyes, and a little flush on her cheek.
And I don't see why you made me get down ! *

There was no use running the least risk
of a spill with you,' he replied, giving his
hand to help her up to her seat beside him.
Your nose, Miss Violet, is a more admirable
and valuable feature than mine.'

But I did not want your beauty to be
damaged either ! ' she laughed. ' Do you
think your nose would be no loss ? '

I should be loth to smash it, as it is the
only one I have.'

Now, Mr. Staples,' said Violet kindly, remembering
that she had entirely forgotten him,
can't we give you a lift, after your kindness
in coming back to look after our interests ? '

'No, thanks,' he replied, with a sense of
unreasonable annoyance at her use of the phial
pronoun ; ' I'll walk home.'

We could take you up at the back,'
she persisted, hospitably offering their best,
although the best was exceedingly poor accommodation.
But Staples wisely declined
with thanks the tempting position offered him.
It is all very well for a picnic-basket, or a
small boy, or an empty coat to be hung on
at the back of a buggy, but it is not so well
for a grown man of average size. Besides,
perhaps Mr. Staples bore in mind a good old
adage about ' company.' So he walked home,
and, it is to be hoped, enjoyed his walk in
the sun, if only half as much as Violet
enjoyed her drive, which seemed only too
short.

Eosemary also appeared quite contented
with her part of the morning's excursion,

when the respective driving parties met together
in the West Grove courtyard.

I've had a very good time. Tregelva's
really very nice. But I think I would have
had a trifle better time though, Yi, if I'd been
in your place,' she added, in the confidence
of their solitude a deux.

Why ? Did you want Max ? I'm sure
you were welcome to him ! '

Oh, no ; I didn't want Max individually.
You know I like my own countrymen better
than your dear Americans ; and Master Max
is too brusque and opinionated — thinks too
much of himself — to suit me. But still one
man is always relatively better company than
three ; so a Randolph solo pleaseth me better
than a trio of Tregelva, Conyers, and Staples,
who, by the way, I think, begrudged dear Max
his place to-day ! He was very anxious lest
you should be upset at the bridge.'

CHAPTEE XIII.

I LEAVE YOU FREE ! '

That evening, at the usual gathering on the
piazza, Violet found herself seated between
Messrs. Tregelva and Christie, the group being
completed by Mrs. Wentworth and Conyers,
and Staples, who was enjoying the now, to
him, rare luxury of lounging in the hammock,
which Eosemary had vacated in favour of the
broad steps leading down to the lawn ; on
one of which she was installed in state and
grace and comfort, a cushion at her back, a
becoming white shawl over her shoulders, a
light Oriental scarf prettily draped over her
head, and Max Randolph stretched on the
lowest step at her feet.

The day had been warm, and the harmless,
thunder-less summer lightning every now
and then turned the sombre sky and dusky
distance to a vivid purple blaze, in which
the tall, dark, starless pine trees stood out in
inky-black silhouettes. In the silence of the
outer night the tinkling, chirping chorus of
the bell-frogs' nightly concert, which was in
full force down by the lake, sounded clear and
strong. On the piazza a lively conversation,
in which even the nonchalant and taciturn
Antinous condescended to be interested, was
going on, a 2)ro2:>os of a rival land-agent
who had been trenching on Mr. Wentworth's
ground by endeavouring to tempt Mr. Whit-worth's
young men boarders into investments,
and whose prices were under severe criticism.

Asked me twenty-five pounds an acre, by
Jove, for wild land without a stick cut upon
it ! ' said Tregelva.

Lake front, of course ? ' observed Christie.

Only a hundred feet or so of lake front.
It's well-situated land, of course ; but you don't
catch me giving twenty-five pounds an acre
for it.'

He wants me to take town lots at ten
dollars each ! ' said Conyers.

But, my dear fellow,' remonstrated
Christie, ' the deuce a bit of a town is
there ! '

No, there isn't any town, except on
paper,' agreed Tregelva. ' It looks beautified
in the plan, all mapped out — Main Street,
schoolhouse, church, bank, gaol. It's all therein
the plan ; and the fellows who buy the lots
will build the town, if they want a town ! '

There'll be a town,' asserted Conyers,
with tranquil confidence, ' for there's going to
be a railway.'

The place is a swamp,' said Christie ; ' it

will be under water in the rainy season, and
you'll have to go about the streets of your
town in a punt.'

" Bathing and fishing in the Main Street
at your very door ! " will sound well for
advertisement,' suggested Tregelva.

I don't believe in buying those low lands,'
Staples put in his word from his hammock.
'May as well just sink your money down to
the bottom of the swamp and let it stay
there.'

Just so,' agreed Christie. ' There's nothing
like the good high-and-dry pine-land for
oranges.'

I don't care much for oranges,' rejoined
Staples. ' I'm sure there's a lot to be done
out here besides oranges. Here, I met a
fellow only to-day at Osceola — a fellow I never
dreamt of seeing here. I used to dance with
his sisters — they lived in one of those big

houses at Marlboro' Gate. He was driving a
cart, and I said to him, " Hullo, what are you
doing out here with that cart ? " and he said,
Doing carrier," and I said, " Do you make
it pay ? " and he said, " Splendidly." He'd
taken three loads this morning — says he can
make four or five dollars a day — and he'd
bought eighty acres of land, and sold sixty at
eight hundred dollars profit ! That's the way
to get on ! '

Exactly,' agreed Mrs. Wentworth, with
warm approbation ; ' but you must buy the
land before you can sell it.'

And you must drive the cart before you
can make the five dollars a day ! ' added
Tregelva.

Why don't you get a cart, Staples ? '

Perhaps I shall,' Staples replied with the
sulky finality of tone that meant shutting up
the subject.

I'd cart things in my wagon for less than
five dollars a day if anybody wanted loads
taken,' said Christie,

Help us cart some of our goods and chattels
out to our place,' suggested one of the
Erasers, who, attracted by these interesting
topics, had joined the group.

We'll want a bigger wagon than Christie's,'
said the second brother, ' if we're to take
all our things in one journey.'

We've finished our furniture to-day,' he
added with modest complacency ; ' it's all stored
in the stables, ready for the start.'

We had better all of us go and see it and
admire it, and take pattern by the busy bees,'
observed Violet.

They have been " improving each shining
hour " with a vengeance,' remarked Tregelva.
Whenever we've asked either of those fellows
to come out in the boat for a little fishing,

they've always been busy hammering away at
a table, or a cot-bedstead, or setting a trunk upon
end and making it into a store-cupboard.'

They'll have something to show for their
first winter in Florida, which is more than you
will! ' replied Mrs. Wentworth.

My first winter in this delightful region,'
drawled Tregelva languidly, ' is most likely to
be my last.'

It isn't such a bad place after all,' observed
Staples meditatively. ' There's a sort
of a charm about the life when you get used
to it.'

Don't be a humbug. Staples ! ' said Tree
; ' you know you wish you were at
home.'

N — no ; I don't think I do now,' was the
reply. ' I dare say this will do as well for meas
any other place. I think perhaps I can
make some money here.'

'Yes, if you'll do anything towards the
making,' said Mrs. Wentworth briskly.

Get a wagon and take loads, like your —
a — Marlborough Gate friend,' suggested Tree


Buy a few lots in a swamp,' said
Conyers.

Take an axe and chop down trees ! ' exclaimed
Christie.

In this discussion Max Randolph and
Eosemary took no part ; they were apparently
lapped in perfect contentment, lounging on
their steps, and absorbed in their own conversation,
which was not pitched in so high a key
as to allow much of it to reach any other ears.
Now and then Violet heard Eosemary 's low
laugh, which generally had a ring of irony
piercing through its sweetness, and in that respect
resembled Max Randolph 's mirth, but had
more of disdain in it. Max Randolph's way

was rather to laugh at poor humanity's frailties
in indolent tolerance than in bitterness or
scorn, though he too could be bitter on
occasions.

How perfectly contented he seemed in
Eosemary's society ! thought Violet. Yet just
as perfectly and serenely content he had
seemed that morning in Items. Now, was he
serenely content ? was serenity at all likely to
be the effect of association with Eosemary ?
had peace and tranquillity ever yet been the
qualities evoked under the melting fire of
Eosemary's dark eyes ? Yet, on the other
hand, was not Max Randolph's impassive coolness
too deep and settled to be broken up even
by Eosemary's influence ? He was ever ready
for chaff and badinage about Eosemary's all-powerful
charms, and appeared to laugh at
Violet's high estimate of her friend's fascinations.
Now Violet wondered, was there a little

grain of earnest underlying all this light
chaff? What were they talking about all this
time ? and did he admit Eosemary a little more
or a little less — into his confidence than he
took her ? and would Eosemary be as sympathetic
a listener if his conversation ran in the
autobiographical and egotistical line to which
it certainly sometimes leant !

Let us go in and have a little music now
Mrs. Wentworth presently suggested. ' Come
along, some of you boys — some or all of
you ! '

Staples replied to the general invitation
by tumbling clumsily out of his hammock ;
most of the others rose up also, with more
alacrity than they would have displayed a
few weeks ago.

'Eosemary,' called her aunt, ' won't you
come in and sing to us ? '

Presently, auntie,' her niece replied in her

sweetest tones ; ' but let me be audience for a
little while ! Vi will sing — won't you, Yi ? *

Certainly, Violet, always amiable and anxious
to please, would sing. A goodly detachment
of the company followed her into the
house. Looking round the parlour as she
finished her first song, she perceived that all
the rest had been drawn in to listen — even
Mr. Wentworth and Spencer had come in from
the smoking-room — all were there as audience,
except Max and Eosemary.

This exception may possibly have influenced
her a little in the choice of her next
song —

She hath two eyes so soft and "brown !
Take care ! beware !
She gives a side-glance and looks down !
Take care ! take care !
She is fooling thee ! '

Violet sang archly and expressively in her
clear, ringing mezzo-soprano tones.

VOL. II. D

Whether Max and Eosemary heard, and,
hearing, apphod, or not, they gave no sign to
show. Song followed song, and these two
remained absentees. Harrington sang a sentimental
ballad about forget-me-nots ; Fraser
favoured the company with his celebrated
performance of the ' Midshipmen ' ; and then
came songs with choruses, which were highly
popular amongst the brotherhood of West
Grove House. Mrs. Wentworth had taken
Violet's place as accompanied; Harrington took
the solo ; the whole brigade clustered round
the piano to do their duty as chorus, and
whilst they were all laudably occupied in
roaring out at the top of their voices,

March — marli —
March with the Mulligan Guard ! '

Violet, finding the room warm, crossed to the
open window and sat down on the low broad
sill. Looking out, she saw that the two figures

were no longer on the piazza steps, but the
flashes of the heat-lightning, which were frequent
still, presently ht up Rosemary's white
dress gleaming amongst the orange-trees in the-grove,
a little distance off. Violet's attention
once attracted to that white figure, she could
distinguish the tall black figure by its side.
Even in the darkness between the flashes of
lightning she could dimly trace those tAv^o contrasted
shadowy forms, the pale gleam and the
dark shade — could follow their slow and lingering
movements as they sauntered among .
And again she wondered, was-there
a little earnest in the joke of Randolph's •
being the latest victim ?

Rosemary's contented expression that night,
and her complacent acknowledgment that she
had had a pleasant evening, suggested an
affirmative answer to this vexed question.
Rosemary was not wont to enjoy a quiet

D 2

evening talk and stroll very much unless her
companion of the evening had manifested
himself duly susceptible to her charms.

Been taking Max's scalp to hang at your
girdle ? ' Violet remarked lightly and inquiringly.


A few hairs of it,' her friend replied.

The two girls were in their room. Rosemary
was sitting on her Saratoga trunk in a
picturesque negligee with her hair tumbled inrich
heavy waves about her shoulders, its
ripples here touched with ruddy gold in the
lamplight, its shadows dusk as a lion's tawny
mane. A softly satisfied smile hovered about
the corners of her crimson hips, whose bloom
looked so ripe and vivid by contrast with the
colourless ivory whiteness of her complexion.
Decidedly, hers was not a loveliness on which
it was safe for a man to gaze too long and too
often, if he prized his peace of mind.

Look here, Vi,' she said suddenly, the
smile on her lips giving place to a more
thoughtful and resolute expression, ' let's
throw our cards on the table frankly. I'll
let him alone if you care at all? Otherwise,
I'll amuse myself a bit. What do you say ? '

Taken by surprise, Violet did not hesitate a
moment — not even to think. ' Amuse yourself
as you like, Eosie,' was her prompt reply.

Eosemary pushed the inquiry a little further.
' 1 always told you, Vi, I'd not interfere
with anyone you cared about. Now say
plainly — speak now, or for ever hold your
peace — do you leave me free ? '

Violet did not retreat from her position —
felt at the moment no inclination to do so. No
idea occurred to her of hindering, thwarting,
crossing Eosemary's whim — for nothing. 'I
leave you free,' she answered.

All right ! It's monotonous enough here,

8 LOVE IN IDLENESS

in this dead-alive place ; and now perhaps,
Yi, we'll see a little fun ! ' said Eosemary
cheerfully.

Tun for you as the frogs said to the
boys stoning them Violet observed, with an
unusual thrill of sympathy for the poor frogs.

« " Frog he would a-wooing go ! " ' sang
Eosemary gaily, jumping off her trunk and
turning to the looking-glass.

She buried her long white fingers in the
heavy ripples of her hair, and tossed and
spread it about ; her pale piquante face looked
out of its rich and warm luxuriance as out of
a very earthly kind of halo.

It is a pity we can't let our hair down in
public, Vi,' she remarked appreciatively and
regretfully. ' There's nothing so becoming.'

I think you can do quite enough mischief
with your hair put up,' said Violet a little
drily.

That night, while Eosemary slept the sleep
of the just, Violet lay long awake thinking — not
troubled, but stirred and haunted by thoughts
of the brief interview just past.

Eosemary 's words — 'Speak now, or forever
hold your peace' — lightly said, and
lightly answered, lingered and repeated themselves
with a growing significance in her mind.
Should she ever regret holding her peace this
night? Of course not for her own sake ; that
was not possible. Why should she regret it ?
What was it to her whether Eosemary had a
victim the more or less ? She had no part nor
lot in the affair, except indeed in the mild
interest — no, more than that, the sisterly sympathy
— of a friendly looker-on. For herself
she would never repent having left Eosemary
free to work her will ; but was it possible that
she might regret it for Max Randolph's sake ?
Had she done well to hold back her hand

when she might have interfered ? Yet again,
why should she interfere ? Was not Max
Randolph strong and cool and level-headed
enough to take very good care of himself?

If I had cared about him — more than asa
friend — Eosemary would have let him alone,'
she said to herself. ' But he is only a friend —
we have never been anything but just good
friends. I wonder, if I had cared a little
about him, whether he would have cared
about me? Perhaps it would be as well for
him if I had cared for him, for it doesn't
generally fare well with Eose's victims ; but
it's certainly very well for me that I doria
And then Max is not in the least like other
men ; I dare say she won't do him much harm.
She's like a beautiful, subtle, sleek, velvety
tigress, and as gentle to me as if I were her
pet cub ! ' she thought gratefully and affectionately.
' Now, if I saw anyone but Eosemary

playing Eosemary's games, low sternly disapproving
I should be I But somehow one
never can be angry with Eosemary ! '

Which conclusion — only substituting for
the impersonal and general ' one ' the definite
particular ' Eosemary's friends ' — was perfectly
true. A cat plays with a mouse so gracefully
and amusingly that it is hard to blame
or rebuke the cat, even though one pities the
mouse. And after all it is the cat's nature,
and the mouse should have taken better care
to keep out of her way.

Eosemary was so graceful, so lovely, so
lovable, so true-hearted to the few friends she
really loved, that those few friends could never
be hard on Eosemary, however compassionately
they sympathised with those unwary
souls who allowed themselves to be made
the victims of her unscrupulous and insatiable
vanity and thirst of conquest. Then

Violet perhaps alone knew Eosemary's inner
life — knew how the great trouble of her early
youth had entered like a poisoned barb into
the very core of her heart, and, rankling there,
had done its work. That cruel disillusionment,
that intolerable discovery of wrong and
treachery, which had robbed her alike of love
and lover, of sister and peace of mind, had
embittered the sweetest springs of her spirit
at their very source, and had given a twist
awry to the nature, born for better things,
which retained so much that was fine and
true in spite of its warping.

CHAPTER XIV.

A BREACH OF THE MONOTONY.

In the courtyard of West Grove House the
whole party of its inmates — a goodly band —
are mustered to do the friendly office of
'seeing off' the Fraserss, who are just starting
en route for their own land, there to begin their
new life. And a life of hard work — felling
trees, clearing scrub, probably fishing for their
own breakfast and shooting their own dinner,
and generally earning their bread in the sweat
of their brow — it promises to be.

A wagon — not Christie's cherished vehicle,
but a stouter, larger one, the largest they
could get — drawn by two gaunt and shaggy
horses, stands laden with their goods and

chattels. The boys have been busy packing
from sunrise, and now the entire requisites for
their modest setting-up in housekeeping are
stowed away in the wagon. Cot-beds, chairs,
benches, all made by their own hands, trunks,
hampers, and packing-cases, are bolstered up
by sacks of flour and of hominy, the chinks
being filled up by parcels of groceries, the
whole erection crowned by their solitary table
lying on its back and kept steady by a kero-
sene-can and a portable stove tied to its legs.
The Erasers are flushed with pleasant excitement
at this outset of their independent career ;
they are buoyed up by an altogether agreeable
sense of pioneering ; they feel in anticipation
the aroma of the backwoods and the frontier
cling about them. Their costume is in keeping
with their new character as pioneers ; they
have dispersed with such effete luxuries of
civilisation as white linen collars and cuffs ;

they wear striped flannel shirts, and have their
nether garments neatly tucked into their high
riding-boots.

Mr. Wentworth, beaming with genial encouragement,
bustles about the wagon, taking
an active part in the preparations. All their
friends, countrymen, and fellow-boarders stand
grouped around. Christie, as usual, lively and
active, ready to lend a hand, is sympathetic
and smiling, and eager for his turn to come to
encamp on his own bit of land. Of the rest
of the band, three at least are mentally hugging
themselves in satisfaction that they have
not bought wild land — are not on their way
to the four rough wooden walls and a roof
which the Fraserss dignify by the name of their
house ' — are under no obligation to cut down
trees and dig up roots — and have a dinner provided
for them without their either killing or
cooking it.

Max Eandolpli also is here to witness the
outset of the journey into the wilderness. He
is by Eosemary's side. Somehow, for the last
few days he always seems to be by Eosemary's
side. He chaffs Violet about her faith in
Eosemary's charms, makes the idea of his
being ' another victim ' a standing joke ; but
he seeks Eosemary's society all the same,
and where she is he is sure not to be far off.

She bit this cigar for me,' he observes ina
confidential aside to Violet, who is at his
other hand. ' I'm going to light it.'

Sacrilege ! ' Violet remonstrates ; ' you
ought to keep it in a golden case ! '

It will end in smoke,' he observes, ' like
our love ! '

Beware ! ' Violet smiles, ' there's no smoke
without fire.'

By this time all is ready for the start.
Ned Fraser ascends to the driving-seat, and

Jack scrambles up amongst the sacks of
groceries.

Mr. Wentworth, who is going to ride a part
of the distance with these worthy scions of his
country to see them on their way, mounts his
horse, and all the little company crowd round
the wagon and shake hands and say their
parting words to the adventurous travellers.

Well, good-bye, my boys ! '

Good luck to you ! '

Don't suppose you'll get a decent dinner
till you're here again.'

Come over and dine with us as often as
you can.*

You'll wish yourselves back at West
Grove House.'

Wonder what sort of a hand you'll make
at baking bread ! '

Jack's going to be cook,' says Ned with
a flourish of his whip.

I shan't aspire to heads observes Jack ;
we'll have to be content with flour-ands water
cakes.'

Then the wagon creaks out of the courtyard,
Mr. Wentworth riding by the side with
a proud and proprietary air, feeling that he
has done his part and duty in sending off these
young settlers. Most of the brotherhood follow
a few steps, waving their hats, Christie even
setting up a cheer ; the girls wave their handkerchiefs.
It is quite a triumphal procession.

As the wagon disappeared from sight, the
usual sense of flatness and deadness fell upon
the few who remained in the courtyard. Mrs.
Wentworth, however, never allowed things to
be long stagnant wherever lie was.

Well, now, are you two girls coming to
help me pot my jelly ? ' she suggested briskly.

The two girls replied in the affirmative
with a cheerful promptness that was sweet and

commendable, considering that pouring jelly
into jars and tying oiled paper over the jars
was an occupation unlikely to require masculine
assistance. They accompanied Mrs.
Wentworth to the kitchen, where Pinkie was
putting out large pans of jelly and dozens of
jars, and set to work. The kitchen was
draughty, and as a freshening breeze seemed
to blow through it from all points of the
compass, Violet presently remarked, as the
light tendrils of her hair blew wildly about
her ears, that she thought she would just run
and fetch her lace scarf which she had left on
the piazza.

Oh, Vi, my dear, if you are going,'
exclaimed Mrs. Wentworth, ' I wish you'd just
ask Conyers — he's sure to be on the piazza or
somewhere about — ask him if he's going on
Silver Lake. I heard him say he meant to go
fishing, and if he's going on Silver Lake, just

VOL. II. E

ask him to dip up a couple of jars of water for
drinking. Our cistern-water seems to be turbid
to-day. If Conyers isn't going, ask one
of the others,' she called after Violet as the
latter left the kitchen. ' We must have some
water from Silver Lake.'

Lake-water always seems to me to taste
of alligators,' remarked Rosemary.

Nobody ever saw an alligator in Silver
Lake, child,' replied her aunt.

Well, of dead cat-fish, then.'

It's capital water — the best we get.'

Oh, yes,' Eosemary agreed readily. ' I
dare say it's the best water in the neighbourhood.'


Mrs. Wentworth was mollified, until her
incorrigible niece added drily, ' It may very
easily be that.'

You perverse little toad ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Wentworth laughingly — she was fond enough

of her niece to call her names — ' I believe
you've made up your mind that no good thing
can come out of Florida ! '

Oh, yes, Aunt Em ! I hope you'll come out
of it one day, to say nothing of the rest of the
family ; and I think there are some good things
in Florida ; but they're mostly importations —
ourselves for instance, and Chicago beef! How
I bless those refrigera ting-cars, that bring us
Northern meat, which one can get one's teeth
through ! '

Look at our oranges ! look at our graves !
look at our climate ! ' said Mrs. Wentworth,
brandishing a spoon in her enthusiasm.

A Southern climate always makes me long
for sleighing and snowballing,' her perverse
niece replied. 'But I will say, auntie, truly
though,' she added, ' this is about the nicest
place I've seen in Florida. If you only lived

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF IttlMW?

in the ghastly dulness of Pine Eidge you
wouldn't wonder at my being discontented ! "

Poor child ! ' said her aunt sympathetically
; ' it must be lonely work for you there !
But you know, my dear, the longer you can
stay with us, winter and summer, the better we
shall be pleased.'

Meanwhile Violet found her lace shawl on
the piazza, but did not find Conyers, and,
roaming round the grounds in search of him,
to deliver her message, she came across Max
Randolph, and was not much surprised that the
first thing he said was —

Where's Miss Eosemary ? '

'Potting jelly with Mrs. Wentworth, and I
am helping them both — or was five minutes
ago, and shall be five minutes hence.'

Can't picture either of you girls engaged
in domestic duties.'

We look too ornamental to be useful — is

that it? If you'll come and look in at the
kitchen-window now, you'll see a sight that, I
trust, will impress you, and convince you of
our domestic virtues.'

Don't they pin discloses to one's coat if
one trespasses into the domestic regions ? '

I don't think Pinkie would pin one to
your coat — you're rather a pet of hers.'

'Potting jelly, did you say?' he observed
reflectively; 'does jelly take long to pot?'

'You want Eosemary?' was Violet's natural
interpretation of this question.

I wanted her to come out on the lake
with me. I've got Martin's boat, and the
water's beautiful this morning.'

Well, I dare say she can come,' said
Violet amiably. ' I don't see why the jelly
should occupy three of us.'

Will you ask her ? ' he rejoined, and then
added with a momentary touch of hesitation

unusual to him — ' I mean, just see, quietly, if
she'd care to come ? '

Violet nodded comprehending.

Trust me,' she said with a sympathetic
smile — ' I'll manage it for you.'

And she did.

She glided a few words into Eosemary's
ear as they dutifully ladled the amber-clear
jelly into the glass jars ; and Eosemary, with a
comprehending smile, took the matter into her
own hands, and within a very few minutes,
with her most becoming hat on, was on her
way to join Mr. Randolph.

The morning was clear and sunny ; the
lakes were calm, save where the gentle breeze
ruffled the little ripples near the shore ;
Martin's boat was a comfortable one ; and
Max and Eosemary thoroughly enjoyed their
boating.

Max did not row much ; they ran into

creeks, and rested under shady trees. Max
took out his block to sketch a picturesque bit
of the shore, but ended by sketching Rosemary
instead.

Meanwhile the household brigade had scattered
in divers directions. Conyers and Staples
went on Silver Lake, each bearing a pitcher,
in compliance with Mrs. Wentworth's request.
Chadwick, who had caught a glimpse of a fine
bittern on the shores of Lake Eosalie, went off,
gun in hand, to seek and slay it.

Tregelva and Harrington drove into town.

Violet, her domestic duties discharged, went
out to sit on the piazza, and found there only
young Spencer, busily engaged in skinning and
stuffing a yellow woodpecker he had shot the
day before.

In the afternoon Chadwick returned triumphant,
laden with his spoils ; he had not only
successfully ' stalked ' and shot the bittern, but

had potted a large black squirrel. The mild
sensation of the exhibition of these trophies in
the hall was, however, completely eclipsed, and
poor Chadwick found himself and his bittern
utterly thrown into the shade, when Tree
and Harrington returned from their
expedition.

There had been a murder in the town. A
coloured man — or, as the white citizens more
briefly put it, a nigger — had had a few rough
words with a police-officer on the subject of
moving on,' had drawn his revolver, and shot
the officer dead on the spot. The West Grove
House young men had arrived on the scene intime
to witness ' the killing,' as the native vernacular
has it, and returned home full of the
excitement of their news.

There was not often any news at all in the
Arcadian tranquillity of life in and around the
West Grove. Peacefully, monotonously, the

sunny days slipped away, each one almost
exactly resembling the other, like so many
shining beads sliding off a strings. Seldom indeed
did any excitement greater than the
catching of a big turtle, or a hop at the great
Osceola Hotel, half a dozen miles off, break the
serene sameness of existence. Thus the smallest
atom of news was a thing to be pounced upon
and its very bones picked clean and polished.

Never yet in all the season had a sensation
such as this — a murder, a real homicide murder
come near this abode of peace. It fell amongst
the party like a shell — with just this difference,
that instead of a stampede away from it, everyone
and all rushed for the dainty morsel, to
make the most out of it.

The witnesses, naturally exalted as with
wine by the consciousness of being the bearers
of news to the needless, dwelt with gusto on
the thrilling tale.

Tregelva, who had arrived just too late
upon the scene of the tragedy to be an actual
eye-witness of the deed, had nevertheless as
much to say as his friend who had been on the
spot.

I saw a lot of fellows riding about like
made' ran Tregelva's narrative, ' with guns and
pistols. Then I came up with Harrington, and
I said to him, " Hullo ! what's up ? " '

I was walking alone; the other side of the
way,' said Harrington, taking up the tale, ' and
I saw there was some row going on outside the
bar. The policeman blackguard this fellow,
and this fellow blackguard the policeman ;
and the policeman went to take him by the
collar, and all in a minute, he whipped out
his revolver and — bang ! The policeman just
staii^cjered back and fell'

Co

He was shot right through the heart,' said
Tregelva, ' and the nigger started to run '

But they got him before he was half-way
down the street,' interposed Harrington.

In a minute the streets were in an uproar,'
continued Tregelva. ' You never saw such a
scene ! The fellows came rushing from every
hole and corner, and every man with his weapon
drawn. And there were other police
seemed to spring out of the ground — they
were on the spot so quick. And the crowd
made a rush to get the nigger, but the police
and the party of order closed round him, and
they ran him into the gaol just in the nick of time
a minute more, and the people would have
had him ! Harrington and I followed — and
followed pretty quickly, too ; but by the time
we got up to the gaol the doors were closed
there stood a row of police with their revolvers
pointed at the crowd. So I said,
Come, my boy ; we'd better be out of this." '
And all the bars and all the shops were

closed at once,' Harrington took up the narrative.
' The fellows ran out to put up their
shutters before you could say "Jack Robinson
! " and the Citizen's Guard is out in full
force, patrolling the streets all round the gaol.'

And, by George ! before we left the place
there were handbills printed off and being distributed
all over the place, appealing to the
citizens not to make any attempt to lynch the
fellow,' said Tregelva.

Earnestly entreating the citizens to take
no rash action in this matter,' added Harrington
more correctly quoting the circular, ' but to
leave the criminal in the hands of the law ; and
promising he should be brought to an early
trial and justice done if they'd only trust in the
law of the State. But I shouldn't be surprised
if they got him out of gaol and lynched him
yet.'

I never saw a man murdered,' observed

Staples with the dejected air which should
naturally accompany so humiliating a confession
; ' but,' he added with reviving cheerfulness,
'I was on the spot just after a murder
once. A fellow had been stabbed, and I saw
the body '

What a pity you hadn't made a little
more haste,' remarked Eosemary.

'And another time,' continued Staples,
warming in his reminiscences, ' I saw a man
who'd been shot by accident. We all thought
he was dead ; but he came to.'

You must have been sorry ; you seem to
have rather a ghoulish taste,' Eosemary said
severely.

I don't want any fellow to be murdered,'
Staples asserted manfully in self-defence ; ' but
if anything does happen '

Your sentiment is, " May I be there to
see ! " ' she interposed.

Well, I like to see what's going on,' he replied,
with the mulish kind of expression that
conveyed an obstinate defiance of disapprobation
in general, and of Miss Heath's disapprobation
in particular.

CHAPTEE XV.

IN THE TOILS.

So great was the excitement created by the
interesting news of the day, that it actually
made a diversion in the usual order of the
evening. The orthodox proceedings were
disturbed ; the cut-and-dried institution of
general resort to the south piazza was broken
into by a majority of the company lingering,
absorbed in warm discussion on murders in
general and the day's event in particular,
in the smoking-room. Thither the others
followed them, and the ladies of the party
brought up the rear, dropping in one by one —
first Mrs. Wentworth, then Eosemary, then
Violet.

The last to drift into the smoking-room
was also the first to drift out. Violet heard
a voice she knew outside on the piazza, which
Eosemary — although she also knew it well —
either did not hear or did not seem to hear.
She was ensconced in the most comfortable
chair in the cosiest corner of the smoking-room,
between Conyers and Tregelva, and was
deeply engaged taking the lead in the conversation,
the purport of which was the
glorification of the English laws at the expense
of the American.

It was not Max Randolph's custom to pay
two visits to West Grove House in one day.
He usually called there either in the morning
or in the evening ; it seldom happened that a
day elapsed without his putting in an appearance,
if only for half an hour so ; but seldom er
still had it occurred that he called twice in one
day. However, here he was this evening, on

the piazza talking to Mr. Whit worth ; and
here Violet, sauntering across the hall in a
casual way, presently joined them ; and here
the same topic which, in various forms and
with divers digressions, was en^^rossinor the

o ' DO

smoking-room party, was discussed again.

Max Randolph, as befitted a South Carolinian
dio had lived in Texas and California,
had imbued Violet with sound and thorough
Southern and Western views in regard to the
wild justice ' of those ' extra-judicial organisations
' which act on the doctrine that in great
emergencies ' morality submits to a suspension
of her own rules in favour of her own
principles ' — (a passage Mr. Randolph was very
fond of quoting). He had related to her
choice tales of the doughty deeds of the * Ku-flux'
and the 'V. C ; he had described to
her how the latter was the salvation of the
Golden City of the West in its early and

VOL. II. p

stormy days. He found in Violet a most
satisfactory and enthusiastic ally ; and these
two spiritedly fought the battle of frontier
justice, as administered by Vigilance Committees
and Ku-Klux-Klans, against the orthodox
laws with which these illegal organisations
have again and again come into conflict,
and often defeated.

'The question lies in a nutshell,' Max
Randolph said. ' Is it better for the public
morality and safety that crimes which the law
of the State is too weak to punish should pass
without punishments or that the citizens
should take into their own hands the administration
of that justice which the law has
promised and failed to administer ? '

There proved to be a good deal to be said,
however, on the contents of this ' nutshell ' ;
Mr. Wentworth pushing Mr. Randolph hard
on the questions of low far the citizens were

justified in presuming on the supposed inefficiency
of the hxw? and whether it was not
rather their duty to devote themselves to
strengthening it by constitutional means than
to take its work out of its hands ? and pointing
out very justly the danger of snatching back by
violence the power deputed by society to the
law, the peril of a public duty being degraded
into private revenge.

For the first act,' he asserted emphatically,
of the organisation of civilised society is to
depute the righting of its wrongs to laws of its
own framing.'

Retaining the privilege of acting on its
own hand should its appointed agent fail,' replied
the upholder of the ' Y. C.,' smiling and
unconvinced. 'While the institution we have
organised to protect us does its business we
don't interfere with it. When it breaks down
we give a helping hand to its work.'

f2

Long before this discussion had even neared
a settlement Staples and Chadwick came out
and joined the group on the piazza ; but
Rosemary and her aunt still lingered in the
smoking-room, happy in the harmless demolition
of American institutions, which pleased
them and did not hurt America much ; and
now Max Randolph had, he said, but a few
minutes more to stay. The trio being increased
to a quite afforded him and Violet
an opportunity of drifting aside for those few
minutes in one of their old friendly confidential
chats ; but now, as Violet had observed,
he always talked less of himself and more of
her fair friend.

Eosemary deep in discussion still ? ' he
observed half interrogatively, dropping the
formal prefix of ' Miss ' for the first time in
Violet's hearing, and casting a searching glance
towards the smoking-room.

Yes. I suppose you want her ? ' rejoined
Violet, smiling. ' Shall I try and get her out
for you ? '

No, no,' he answered, ' I can't stay. I
only looked in for eye minutes — only the five
minutes have spread out a little, you see. I had
a word to say ; but as she's engaged, will you
just tell her, I find I can't manage ten o'clock
tomorrow, but will half-past eleven do as well ?
I'll be there, surely, by half-past eleven.'

You wish the message imparted at once,
at the top of my voice, and before all the
assembled company, no doubt ? ' suggested
Violet with a sparkle of mischief.

A gleam of amusement lit up his eyes ashe
replied, in the confidential tone of frank
and half tender friendship which Violet knew
and liked so well,

I'll trust you. Miss Violet,' — and she
noticed that, old friends though they were,

he did not drop the ' Miss ' in addressing
her.

So Mr. Randolph departed without penetrating
into the retreat of the smoking-room,
the atmosphere of which was by this time a
cloud of hie and hazy mist, wherein Eosemary
still sat in her comfortable corner, in the easiest
chair, with the substantial barriers of Conyers
and Tregelva interposed between her and the
rest of the company.

Violet did not impart Max Randolph's
message to Eosemary until they were in the
safe seclusion of their own room ; then she
delivered it faithfully word for word.

Eosemary received it with a soft complacent
smile.

All right,' she said easily. ' Eleven-thirty
will do — though, of course, it weill rob us of
an hour and a half of each other's sweet
society ! '

Which of you will feel that loss the
most ? ' asked Violet gaily.

'It wouldn't hurt me much,' Eosemary
replied, shrugging her shoulders lightly, ' if I
had to dispense with Mr. Max altogether, providing
I had somebody at hand to fill up his
place.'

No difficulty of that kind here,' said Violet
; ' you'd have a long list of somebodies to
choose amongst.'

No, it wouldn't take long to comfort me ;
but I must own, although I don't care for
Americans in general, that Max has more to
say for himself than most of these others —
except perhaps Tregelva when he's in one of
his pleasant moods.'

And then he never talks of anything but
races,' said Violet.

Of course nobody else's conversation has
the broad range and scope of Max Randolph's! '

retorted Eosemary. ' You should have gone
in for him yourself, Vi, as you like Southerners
so much ! '

I do think they're nice,' admitted Vi
frankly. ' What mischief are you up to at
eleven-thirty tomorrow, Eose ? '

Only going to spend the morning in
Miller's Creek ; he has discovered a beautiful
cosy nook " there. We like a romantic background,'
Eosemary added gravely, 'perhaps
because there isn't much romance in our conversation.
And, by the way, Vi, if you don't
mind walking with me as far as Lake Annabel
start as if we were going for a ramble together
— it will stave off questions from Aunt
Em ; she might put a spoke in the ^vheel if
she saw me setting off' all by myself.'

What am I to say if she sees me coming
back all by myself ? ' Violet asked with her
usual docile acceptance of the position.

Oh, anything ! say you were tired and
turned back — or say we met Randolph if you
like — it doesn't really matter. Aunt isn't a
worry ; only she needn't know that Max and
I ^x regular trysts — quite loverlikO) isn't it ? '
and she laughed.

Quite,' agreed Yi. ' I suppose he is very
fond of you ? '

Heaven knows ! ' Eosemary ejaculated
piously. ' r don't ! Mr. Max's heart is rather
a hard nut to crack.'

The next morning, in accordance with the
evening's arrangement, Violet walked with her
friend in the direction of Lake Annabel, but
discreetly paused as they neared the boathouse,
and observed :

Well, dear, I'll turn back now. My presence
might be a check on the raptures of
meeting.'

Max isn't a rapturous individual by any

means,' replied Eosemary carelessly. ' He'll
say : "Ah, here you are ! " ' — with an excellent
imitation of Max Randolph's brusque and
nonchalant manner.

Well, good-bye, Miss Mischief ! ' said
Violet. ' A happy morning to you ! Leave
him just head and heart enough to get home
with ! '

He must take care of his own ! ' replied
Eosemary gaily. ' Ta-ta, Yi ! We'll be home
some time, unless an alligator gets us! '

The sun burnt like a golden flame in a sky
of pure and flawless sapphire blue.

Violet, left alone, thought it would be pleasant
to sit down in the shade for a little while.
There was a tempting nook in the wood, with
an inviting stump just the right height for a
seat, within view of the boathouse — but delicate
instincts withheld her from lingering there,
where she could see the meeting and embarkation

of the happy couple. She strolled on till
she came to another resting-place — a fallen
trunk lying beside the rough footpath. The
tall erect pine-trees, straight as masts, their
bare trunks only crowned with light leafage at
the top, do not cast much shade ; but such
shadow as there was Violet placed herself in a
position to enjoy, and indulged in a comfortable
interlude of solitary repose and reverie, for
which she seldom had opportunity, being always,
night and day, in Eosemary's company.

The thought of the freedom with which
Max and Eosemary admitted her into their
confidence possessed her with a thrill of pleasure.
Of course it was no wonder at all that
Eosemary should confide in her ; she always
did ; but it was not so much a matter of course
with Max. Long and frequent as had been
the tete-a-tetes (though less frequent now
than of old) between himself and Violet, and

often as he himself, his own ideas, theories,
and plans, had been the subjects of their discussion,
yet it was seldom indeed that he had
let slip the slightest confidential personal allusion.
Even now he had said but a very few
passing words, but the tone of those few had
been of a free confidence which affected no
disguise.

He trusts me,' said Violet to herself — not
aloud, as people in their sane and sober senses
seldom soliloquise on private and personal
matter at the top of their voices except on the
stage ; but as she sat in the solitude of the
pine woods, safe from prying eyes, her lips
moved a little as they framed the words, and
a smile stole over her face as if the reflection
was sweet. ' He trusts me ! Sweet, good,
brotherly of him to trust in me so frankly !
They say there is no such thing as friendship
between man and woman — that men have no

faith in friendship between two women ! Max
has faith in me and trusts in my friendship
for him and for Rosemary; and he is right. I
wonder, if it had been me instead of Eosemary
whom he had chosen out, if he would have
taken her into his confidence about me ! No :
that would have been so different ! Besides,
how ridiculously foolish wondering what might
have happened if he had cared for me ! lie
never did care for me. Does he really care for
her ? '

Here a little pin-prick of pain pierced
through the smooth-flowing tranquillity of her
train of thought — a dart of apprehension that
if Max Randolph really loved it would be no
light matter. But she comforted herself with
the reflection that he, so self-centred and
steadily poised, was not one likely to be
easily overthrown from his self-possession.
'He is a man of our world of to-day,' she

said to herself reassuringly. ' No doubt, withall
Eosemary's power, he will be her match.
No harm ever comes of a bit of fun and flirtation
nowadays ; it is just a game that so
many play, so I may rest easy. Yet if ever —
if ever,' and the uneasy thought pricked and
thrilled her again, — ' if ever any harm or
trouble should come to Max through this why,
I would be ready to cut off my hand for
helping the affair on now ! Yet, to hinder it
would be impossible — doubly impossible for me
of all women ! I nm his friend and Eosemary's
friend ; and how could I intervene in any way
in this ? I must be only mutual friend, confidante,
looker-on ; what else could / be ? I
have left Eosemary free to follow her own will,

and I am grateful to them both for their trust ! '
She smiled again, and her heart really warmed

in grateful appreciation of their friendship.

They will enjoy a season's flirtation, a little

romance — it can only be a short season, as he
has not long to stay here, and then they'll part,
all lightly and easily ; and it will really be
interesting for me to watch and look on ! '

Even in the perfect freedom of her own
solitary soliloquy, Violet accepted the impossibility
of her holding aloof from the aiding
and abetting of Eosemary in this matter as a
fact, and never, even in these self communing,
asked herself icy it was an impossibility ?
why it was inevitable that she must mix herself
in this business — must be mutual confidante,
tacitly encouraging by refraining from expression
of dissuasion or disfavour? Her instincts
all told her that she had no choice but to aid
and abet her friend in the path she had left
Eosemary free to follow when the chance
of blocking it was offered to her ; and she
accepted the dictates of instinct, womanlike,
without reasoning upon them. Perhaps, for a

nineteenth-century young lady, Violet was very
little given to introspection, and not over-benighted
; while sympathetic and sensitive, she
was yet obtuse of perception and shallow of
insight, sympathising with what she saw, but
not seeing very far or very deeply into things.

As she sat thinking, presently looking up
from the flecks of sunshine and shadow at her
feet, she perceived a manly figure coming along
the path from the direction of West Grove
House, and as it approached nearer she recognised
Staples — Archibald St. Julian — with a
short pipe in his mouth, his hands swinging
by his side, a pleased smile dawning on his
face as he recognised her, although he could
find no greeting more eloquent than — ' Hullo !
sall by yourself sitting out here ? '

'Yes — on a nice shady seat.'

Mr. Staples next, of course, put the usual
question which everyone was wont to ask on

finding one of the two friends alone, as it
seemed the natural thing that they should be
always together — ' What's become of Miss
Heath ? '

She is out on the lake.'

Got some fellow hanging round, I suppose
? '

Probably,' Violet replied serenely. ' The
fellows " don't seem to have anything better
to do here.'

There's plenty to do,' demurred Staples,
only we don't do it.'

Why don't you turn over a new leaf? ' she
asked ; ' though I must say you, certainly, are
improving.'

Think so ? ' he replied, brightening.

Yes, I was looking at you as you came
along through the trees. Time was when one
would have known you a mile off by your
hands, so deep down, and your shoulders, so

VOL. II. G

high up ; but now you are beginning to carry
yourself like other men.'

Er — thank you,' he said haltingly, as if he
considered it a rather unsatisfying compliment.
Was I — such a bear ? '

Well, you did not appear to have paid the
extra twopence for deportment,' she said gently
and demurely.

There was nobody in this dreadful desolate
place to take any notice he replied ina
tone of frank and explanatory confidence ;
no one to tell me anything. It didn't seem
to matter a straw whether I was a bear or not.
Never saw one of these fellows till I got out
here. My word, wasn't I a miserable dog,
exiled out here, at first ! '

You do not find it so bad now ? '

Well, no — no — I don't think it is quite so
bad. May I sit down ? ' he added, regarding

the ample space to spare on the fallen trunk
which was Violet's seat.

Certainly,' she said amiably.

I don't disturb you, do I ? ' he asked,
taking up his place at a discreet but not unfriendly
distance.

Not the least. How should you ? ' she
replied. ' I was only sitting here resting, and
thinking.'

Thinking ? ' he repeated. ' I don't like
sitting down alone to think. One gets thinking
of all the unpleasant things that have
happened or may happen.'

The last I call an absolutely sinful waste
of time,' she answered ; ' and indeed I suppose
the first would be also, to a well-regulated
mind.'

I don't think I like people with well-regulated
minds,' he observed.

'I'm afraid I don't either,' she agreed.

G 2

The sort of people who always make it a
duty to forget whatever they find it disagreeable
to remember.'

There are lots of things Fd like to forget
he rejoined ; ' but they've a way of coming
back into one's mind without being called.'

There are some people happy enough to
have nothing in their lives they wish to forget,'
said she.

'Wish I was one of those lucky fellows,'
said he. ' But I'm an unlucky dog.' Something
sympathetic in Violet's look, in her
mere presence, led Staples, albeit habitually
reserved, to wax confidential and autobiographical.
' I lose everything I like. I had
a horse I liked, and the brute staked himself
in the field, and had to be shot. I wouldn't
let myself like another horse now. And I'd
a dog I was fond of, and the poor little devil
was poisoned. My sister gave me another

dog, and I didn't care for it at first, and as
soon as I got to like it it died.'

" I never loved a dear gazelle ! " ' quoted
Violet, smiling, and instantly atoned for seeming
flippancy by adding sympathetically, ' That
was hard ! But I hope that ill-luck has not
followed you along other lines ? '

Yes, it has,' he continued candidly. ' The
girl I thought I'd like to marry wouldn't marry
me ; and the girl I didn't want to marry got
me into an engagement, and made a row with
my people.'

That was unluckily still. But I hope the
row was made up ? '

Oh, yes — after a lot of bother. Doesn't
seem to me as if things would ever be the
same again. I don't know really whether
there was more bother about the making the
engagement or the breaking it. You see what
an unlucky dev — beggar, I am ? '

Never mind,' she said consolingly. ' Ita
long lane that has no turning.'

You think my luckily turn some day ? '

I hope so — indeed I think that most likely
it will. If you have been unlucky twice, the
chances are you'll be all right the third venture.
The third is the lucky number, you
know.' Staples was apparently easily comforted,
for he began to look quite cheerful.

It would be nice on the water this morning,'
he suggested. ' We should have time fora
turn on the lake. Would you like to come
for a row ? '

Yiolet thought that it would be nice ; and
also in her heart that it would not be otherwise
than nice if they should chance to meet
Max and Eosemary on their homeward way.

So they got the boat and spent the rest of
the morning on the water. Staples, as lie sat

rowing — not expending very much exertion on
his oars, I must confess — with his pipe in his
mouth, his hat pulled over his eyes to shade
them, an unusually amiable and contented expression
on his countenance, did not look a bad
fellow or a disagreeable one. He did not talk
much ; but there was something rather sympathetic
about his silence, and soothing about
the frank indolence with which he rested on his
oars and puffed at his pipe.

The two parties, as Violet had anticipated,
met on the homeward row.

Thus Mr. Randolph and Eosemary, Mr.
Staples and Violet, returned to the house ina
body ; and it did not occur to anyone to
be inquisitive as to how they had spent their
morning or how the quartet had paired
off. Perhaps there Alas no room for curiosity
on the latter point, as it was evident to the

naked eye that, towards whichever of the two
fair girls Max Randolph's taste might most
incline, Staples's inclination would not lead him
to Miss Heath's side while there was a vacant
place near Miss Preston.

CHAPTEE XVI.

ONLY A KISS.

It is the interesting hour when the mail is due,
providing that mail-boats and trains are ' on
time,' and that whoever has gone to fetch the
West Grove House mail is not loitering by the
way. There are, certainly, but few pitfalls of
temptation dug for the feet of the wanderer in
this neighbourhood ; so it is not placing an
undue degree of credit to the virtues of the
West Grove Household brigade to say that
seldom indeed is the mail delayed by laches of
the messenger.

This morning it is Staples whose advent is
eagerly watched for, and who promptly to his
time appears, bearing his precious charge in an

old handbag of Mrs. Wentworth's. As soon
as the longest-sighted of the brotherhood on
the piazza descries the unmistakable figure of
Staples ' loping ' into sight — his slouching gait
a little brisker than of old — there is a general
move. Two impetuous brethren run down
the steps and hurry forward to meet him.
These are Conyers and Harrington. They
often do hasten to meet the mail ; they also
often insist on carrying their own correspondence
to the post office, and are consequently
accredited with attachments to unnamed and
unknown ' girls they've left behind them ' in
old England.

The mail-bearer, shroud of his important
office, with these eager followers treading on
his heels, carries the important bag into the
smoking-room, sets it on the table, opens it,
and plunges this hand into its depths, whilst the
fraternity, closing round him, shoulder each

other ill their eagerness, and Conyers, with the
simple and straightforward pursuit of his own
desires which characterises him, thrusts a handover
Staples's shoulder and clutches out a
bundle of letters, which he inspects and distributes
simultaneously with the legitimate
distributor of the mail.

Here, Harrington ! Tregelva ! Chadwick ! '
recites Staples, handing to each one his missive,
while Conyers sorts out his packet.

Here you are, Spencer ! Staples ! Spencer
again ! Miss Heath ! Miss Preston ! '

Violet has a packet of New York letters
and London j^^pers ; Eosemary is cut short
with only one, and that from a parent, post-marked
with the beloved name of Pine Eidge.
Harrington and Conyers have taken their cherished
epistles out to study in remote corners
of the piazza ; Staples is chuckling over his,
which is apparently of a humorous nature ;

Chadwick is smiling over the arrival of a
money-order from home ; Tregelva, whose
general disposition to frank and open confidence
imparts a semi-public character to his
correspondence, is commenting aloud on his
parent's missive.

Governor wants to know what I'm doing
out here? I should like to know what he
thinks I can do, so long as he doesn't cash up ! '

'Vi, can you do without me for two or
three days ? ' says Eosemary, folding up her
letter with a thoughtful air.

Violet looks up from her lapful of correspondence.


'Why, where on earth are you going for
two or three days ? '

Filial duty will take me with Uncle Peter
to Panasofkee. The dad's going for a trip on
business, is to meet uncle there, writes to
him by this mail to fix the appointment, and

he wants me to be there too. So I suppose
I've got to go. It will only be a two or three
days' visit. What a good daughter I am, to be
sure ! '

A model of filial virtue,' Violet agrees
laughingly, but clasping her hands affectionately
round Eosemary's arm and drawing closer to
her side.

'Will you mind staying here under Aunt
Em's chaperonage for a few days, Yi ? Or, I
wonder, could it be managed for you to come
with us ? ' •

Oh, no, dear, no need for that ; your father
will want you to himself for the little time you
have together, and I shall be perfectly comfortable
here.'

Yes, I leave you compensations,' Eosemary
says watli a significant smile.

Well, Eosemary, my dear,' exclaims Mr.
Wentworth, coming out with a bundle of

papers in his hand, ' so your father has written
to you, he tells me ? I suppose you'll like to
go up to Panasofkee with me to meet him
as he wishes ? '

Certainly,' she assents with the brightest
promptness. ' Only let me know when you
are going to start, and I will be ready.'

Comfort my Max,' she said lightly to
Violet afterwards, when they were tete-tete.


'I'll do my best, but I expect he'll be
wearing the willow — all forlorn.'

I leave him and the whole troop to you.
You'll have the field all to yourself. You
have it already with Staples,' Eosemary added
lightly. ' He's beginning to follow you about
like a dog. He's not unlike a dog, by the
^yay — one of those long-nosed dogs.'

He's a good fellow. I like Staples,' said
Violet.

Only don't like liii too well, for he's a
detrimental.'

No fear ! ' Violet laughed ; ' but as to his
being a detrimental, poor fellow, he's no
exception in that respect, for they're all
detrimental here.'

Tregelva's about the best of the bunch,'
observed Eosemary meditatively. ' I recommend
him to your attention, Yi ; but make the
most of your chances, for I don't intend to
leave him to you long. And take care of my
Max, and return him to me safe, sound, and
in good condition.'

Two or three days later Eosemary was
gone on her filial mission, in company with
Mr. Wentworth, and Violet missed her — missed
her bright and sympathetic presence at every
hour of the day, felt something wanting when
the social party assembled on the piazza — and
she sat amongst them without her chosen

companion and confidante. It was no compensation
to her to have ' the field to herself *
with the household brigade ; but perhaps it
was some little compensation to be favoured
with more of Max Randolph's society than she
had lately enjoyed.

If he wore the willow for Eosemary at all,
it was in his secret heart ; for he did not twine
it ostentatiously round his hat. He came to
West Grove House as usual, and did not cut
his visits short on account of the absence of his
rare and radiant maiden.' But she played a
conspicuous part in his conversation with
Violet, when they drifted apart from general
chit-chat into quiet, pleasant, friendly little
tete-a-tetes^ in the old, old fashion. Of late
Eosemary had drawn him to her side surely
and constantly as the magnet draws the steel.
Now, in her absence, he turned as naturally
to Violet, with that old flattering air of secure

comfort and content in her companionship, of
finding nothing wanting, nothing missing, when
he was with her. He liked women's society,
and avowed that king frankly — to women
at least. Violet once told him it was a very
natural preference, for men never proved such
good listeners to men, while women encouraged
man's egoism by their patience. Max, however
they might spar and fence in play, never
took offence in earnest with Violet, nor she
with him. Only now, Eosemary, absent in
person, was ever with them in thought — was
an ever-recurrent theme in their discourse. In
regard to Max Randolph's personal feelings,
there was not the least flaw nor crack in his
smooth, impenetrable shell of reserve ; he
harped, as a standard jest, on the image of
himself as the latest victim ; but he said nota
word in earnest, nor ever asked nor hinted a
question of any kind concerning Eosemary and

VOL. II. H

her feelings. It was not Max Randolph's way
to seek insight through one woman into another
woman's life, thoughts, or sentiments ; and then,
perhaps, he knew, or thought he knew, Rosemary
so well that he had no reason for curiosity.
He talked of her constantly in a light
tone of superficial badinage, and gave no sign
to show whether there was any depth under
this surface-froth which might cover either
deep soundings or shallows.

One night, when they were all sitting on
the piazza, the general attention was fixed on
a pale ruddy glow, visible just over the tops of
the pine-trees and in glimpses through the
thicket

There's a good big fire over there,' observed
Tregelva.

Is it worth going to look at, I wonder ? '
speculated Staples.

For scrub-fires were common things, and

an ordinary little fire was not considered worth
turning out to view, except by enthusiastic
newcomers. But the steady glow of this fire
seemed to promise something worth walking a
few hundred yards to look at ; and first Christie
and Chadwick, generally the most energetic of
the little band, started off to see what was to
be seen ; then Mrs. Wentworth, less on sightseeing
bent than to assure herself that their
fences were not in danger, and bearing Conyers
and Tregelva in her train, speedily followed by
Max Randolph and Violet, Staples and Harrington
bringing up the rear.

The fire was some little distance off. As
they approached the spot, the crackling, snapping
sounds of the burning bush grew louder ;
the glow through the trees shone with a fiercer
light. Christie turned back, beaming with
genial relief, to announce to Mrs. Whitwortli
that it was only bush and scrub ablaze ; the

H 2

trees had not caught, and the wind was not
setting towards their groves. Her mind being
thus put at ease, Mrs. Wentworth was able to
admire the picturesque aspect of the scene.
The exploring-party were close enough to the
fire now to have a perfect view of it ; but they
adventurously pushed on nearer, nearer, along
a path that ran parallel with the line of flame,
leading between the burning ' bush ' and the
high wall of a neighbouring grove, and narrowing
as they pushed on, so that they were
soon in closer proximity to the fire than nervous
persons would have cared to be — in fact,
they were on its very verge.
A Close past their feet, the low rapid river

of fire ran hurrying on, its waves tipped
with crests of leaping flame. Against the deep
amethyst purple of the sky the great pines
stood up tall and pale above the ruddy flickering
firelight, like ghosts of trees. The flames

licked round their roots, and now and then
leapt up as if to embrace them, but never
climbed near to their lofty leafy tops. From
those feathery crowns the long light veils of
Spanish moss hung like limp and drooping
banners, gleaming pallidly above the lurid glow
on the earth beneath.

There was something strangely weird and
uncanny in the sight of those spectral looking,
pale and hoary streamers of moss hanging
motionless in the windless air, far and high
above the red-running river of fire that devoured
the brushwood with its eager, dancing,
gold and scarlet tongues of flame. Every
now and then one would dart and twine
like a serpent up a tree, and then flicker
and fall, as if these earth-born flames could
never scale and reach those j^i-ii^c heights
where the majestic pine-trees reared their unmoved
heads in dream-like peace, still and

pale as imperial ghosts, above the riot of the

fire.

Our retreat may be cut off if we go on

too far,' observed Tregelva presently, glancing

backwards and forwards along the narrowing

path-well,

we'd better go back, then,' said Mrs.

Wentworth, with her wonted promptness.

If you have had about enongli of it,' rejoined
Tregelva, who had probably an eye to a
spotless new suit which he had that evening
donned for supper.

I'll take you on if you want to go,' said
Conyers obligingly.

No ; we've seen about all that is to be
seen. We may as well turn back now,' the
lady decided, and turned accordingly, with her
two cavaliers.

'What do you say, Miss Violet?' asked
Max Randolph.

It's a fascinating sort of scene — a cross
between purgatory and fairyland,' she replied.
I'm in no hurry to tear myself away from it
unless you think it's not safe,' looking up at
him in trustful appeal.

'Should I let you go on if there was
danger ? ' he said. ' We can keep on a little
further if you like.' And they did so, remarking
reassuringly, as they found they had left
the rest of the party behind, ' If our retreat
were to be cut off, we should only have to
climb this wall and make our way round home
by the Johnson Grove.'

They went on a little further, then came to
a standstill, and Max observed —

We can go back if you like to try it ; but
the sparks are getting pretty thick. I think,
maybe, it would be about as well to get over
the wall.'

Violet looked back, and thought it would

be a great deal better. The strip of path behind
them, between the fire and the wall, had
narrowed alarmingly, and great flaming sparks
were flying across it thick and fast.

Certainly we will escalade the wall,' she
assented cheerfully. ' I only hope it won't
catch fire till we've got over it.'

The wall was a stout and high wooden
fence, its topmost rail fortunately unprotected
by either the spikes which the British householder
provides as a welcome for the burglarious
tramp, or the broken bottles laid for the
foot-paw of the marauding British cat. The
way over the wall being thus smoothed for
climbers, a natural preliminary step was to getup
and sit on the top of it, which Max and
Violet did.

We have a good view from the gallery,'
she remarked as she surveyed the blazing

underbrush from the vantage-ground of her
elevated position on the top rail

They lingered a few minutes enjoying the
view — lingered, indeed, until a slender tongue
of flame leapt close to the wall and a blazing
spark flew on Violet's dress.

It's about time to be moving,' then said Max.

He swung himself down on the further side
of the fence, and Violet prepared to follow.

Stop — I'll lift you down,' he said quickly.
It's a deep drop on this side. Best your arm
on my shoulder — so.'

He lifted her down lightly and carefully,
and having set her on the ground, by his side,
still kept his arm about her.

All right and steady on your feet ? ' he
asked.

Yes, thanks,' she replied, settling her footing,
as she had alighted in a deep tuft of weeds

No need for any further support ? '

Not the least she assured him, making a
shalt movement to withdraw herself from his
arm ; but it was a very slight endeavour — so
insignificant, indeed, that Max did not think it
at all necessary to release her. He even drew
her a little nearer to his side.

If Eosemary were here with me,' he said
in a half-mocking, half-tender tone, his arm
clasped closely round her, 'don't you think
she'd give me — just one ? '

How can I tell ? ' replied Violet, trying to
speak lightly, although her heart was fluttering
unaccountably.

'As she isn't here,' he continued, 'won't
you ? ' He bent his face down towards hers,
and was not repulsed. ' On her behalf ! ' he
said, and kissed her on the lips.

Violet did not resist. With a sense of
utter astonishment at herself, not recognising

herself at all, wondering what had come to
her, she remained perfectly passive, even when
he added, ' 'Now on your own and took a
second kiss.

Never since her lost Arthur's day had any
man ever kissed her lips, and she was amazed
at her own yielding now. Shy and modest
underneath her light superficial coquetries, she
always shrank like a startled fawn from any
such demonstration. What had come to her
now that she did not shrink away nor rebuke
him, nor even feel in the least inclined to rebuke
him ? Although these kisses had broken
the seal of her hitherto flawless constancy to
the past, she was not angry even with herself,
and still less with Max, although she full'
realised how extraordinary and altogether unaccountable
it was that she should not be angry.

She released herself gently, but in no way
resentfully, from his embrace.

Come : we must be making our way home
she said in a subdued, shy way.

Take my arm,' he replied ; ' the ground is
rough.'

It certainly was rough, with tussocks and
rank grass and scrub, and Violet laid her hand
lightly on his arm.

They walked on in silence for a minute or
two, and then made a few commonplace and
somewhat constrained remarks about the fire
and the most direct route home ; but conversation
did not flow freely, and soon sank into
silence again — a silence which he presently
broke.

Do you think any the worse of me now ? *
he asked abruptly. Shy, and startled by this
sudden question, she made no eager haste to
answer, and he continued : ' Have I altered your
opinion of me? I've no reason to suppose it
was ever a particularly good one,' he added

quickly ; ' but do you think the same of me
still ? '

Yes ; why should I not ? It was my
fault,' she answered. And yet she did not
feel that it was a fault to be regretted.

Your fault ? ' he echoed with a sort of
tender scorn ; and she divined, although she
could not see, the sort of smile upon his lips.
What a heinous fault, child ! '

He had never called her ' child ' before,
and his tone was tenderer than she had ever
heard from him.

Shall you tell Eosemary ? ' he asked suddenly.


Yes, of course I must tell Eosemary,' she
replied with unhesitating frankness.

Well, I suppose you must,' he said.

Why do you emphasise the pronoun ? '

Oh, I don't know. Perhaps I hadn't supposed
that all women would have thought they

must. No doubt you know your sex best, but
I wasn't aware that women thought themselves
bound to be perfectly open with each
other.'

He spoke with more than the suspicion of a
sneer ; his tone had the old cool, hard, keen
ring again. But Violet instinctively knew that
they two had never come so near in heart
before — never been so near to understanding
each other, to meeting

Soul to soul as hand to hand.

I am bound always to be frank with Rosemary,'
she replied gently. ' And you — don't
mind, do you ? '

'I? Not the least. By all means, tell her.'
Another silence, which he broke by a Svvin-
burnham quotation —

Ah, take the season and have done I
Love well the hour and let it go.'

'That's what Rosemary does, isn't it?' he
added with rather a grim smile.

Wise Eosemary ! ' she observed, catching
his lightness of tone.

We've had our hour, eh ? ' he said, in his
old half-mocking way.

And now we'll let it go,' she agreed buoyantly.
' And tomorrow I hand Samson over
to his Delilah, to be as speedily and effectually
shorn as may be.'

Here a trampling among the scrub drew
their attention to a group of dark shadows approaching
through the trees. It turned out to
be the Johnson household, on their way to beat
the fire back from their fence. The Johnson
inquired eagerly if the flames had already
caught any part of it, and Max and Violet
assured them that, so far at least as their
knowledge went, the wall was still safe.

During the remainder of their walk back to

the West Grove they indulged in no more personal
and confidential conversation. Indeed they
had little opportunity for it. as Staples and
Spencer soon met them, having turned back
from the house in search of Miss Preston.

Thought some of those sparks might have
set your dress on fire,' observed Staples in a
grumbling tone.

I assure you Mr. Randolph has taken very
good care of me,' Violet replied.

I dare say,' Staples said sulkily ; and all
the way back to the house he only spoke when
he was specially addressed, and then replied in
monosyllables.

Violet sat long at her window looking out
that night. The room seemed lonely without
Eosemary. She felt restless and wakeful, and
knew it would be useless trying to go to sleep
too soon.

The forest fire had burnt low and smouldered

out; and something seemed to be flickering
and sinking in her heart too. She shrank
with some alarm from the vai^iie confused
thrills of thought that trembled through her —
thoughts blurred and broken as shifting clouds
in a misty sky.

Oh, it is well Eosemary is coming back
tomorrow,' she said, pressing her hands on her
heart as it swelled with a sigh. ' Why am I
sighing? What have I to sigh for? It was
nothings — nothing ! It meant nothing* —

* Ah, take the season and have done !
Love well the hour and let it go ! "

But I am afraid I might drift into thinking too
much of the hour if it lasted — if it had not
been so short — so short ! Yes, I might get too
deeply interested if I were to be left too much
with him like this — without Eosemary. I am
too glad to be with him — unreasonably happy
with him. It is absurd, unreasonable, that this
VOL. n. I

old, old friendship should get such power over
me now I But Rosemary is my safeguard, and
she is coming back tomorrow; and then — then
there will be no more of these tete-a-tetes ; then
ail will be just as it vas before.'

CHAPTER XVII.

A MOONLIGHT TRYST.

Rosemary returned from her few days' absence
in her brightest and sweetest mood, affectionately
glad in her greeting of her aunt and
Violet, and gracious to the household troop,
who dutifully turned out to a man to meet
and give her welcome, Tregelva taking her
bag, Christie her sunshade, and even Conyers
volunteering to help her with her cloak.

The girls went off upstairs hand in hand,
frankly delighted to be together again ; absence,
even of only a few days, seemed to
have made their hearts grow fonder.

I've not had a bad time, Vi,' said Rosemary
; ' the dad was very glad to see me, and

I 2

angelically willing for me to stay here just
as long as I like. I'm very fond of my old
dad, you know, although I do growl at his
living in that God-forsaken hole. Pine Ridge.
It was nice to see him, and without my beloved
step-mamma too ! — and Uncle Peter's
taken as much care of me as if I'd been a box
of oranges (I can't say more than that) ;
and I've had plenty of attention from all the
men we have met. And now, my Vi, what
sort of a time have you had ? What have you
been doing, and how have they all been — Max
and the rest of them ? '

Violet felt that this last inquiry opened
to her an excellent opportunity for the confidential
relation of that little episode between
herself and Max during their return from the
wood fire, and introduced it accordingly, with
a conscientious promptness that made even
more haste than was necessary. She tripped

along the tale of the evening fluently, until
she got to the moment when he lifted her
over the wall, and then began to hesitate, not
in irresolution, but in picking and choosing
of words to continue. Eosemary's experience
guided her to the ready interpretation of this
hesitancy.

You needn't mince it, Yi,' she said,
He kissed you, I suppose ? '

Yes. It was only just a minute's — impulse.
I — I thought you wouldn't mind, Eose,
or I wouldn't have let him,' replied Violet
rather stumblingly.

/ don't mind a bit ! I never grudge you
any amusement, Yi,' said Eosemary magnanimously.
'On the contrary, my child, I am
very glad to see you enjoy yourself. I think,
you know, you're too quiet as a rule — too
much in the line of "Priscilla the Puritan
maiden ! " '

'I don't think I'm much like Priscilla,'
Violet answered with a bright smile, amused
and relieved ; wondering in her heart whether
Max Randolph would have kissed the Puritan
maiden? and, more interesting speculation
still, whether Priscilla would have permitted
the salute? She was sadly afraid that both
questions must be answered in the negative ;
but yet, much as she admired the ideal of
Puritan maidenhood, she somehow could not
feel in the least sorry that Nature had not cast
her in Priscilla's mould.

Of course Max Randolph came that evening
; and it appeared that absence had also
made his heart grow fonder — and not ' of
someone else,' as the improved adage has
it; for he and Eosemary met with evident
pleasure, and plunged forthwith into their old
flirtation even deeper than before.

Eosemary took up the burthen of life and

amusement, or what to her was the only recognised
form of amusement, again exactly as she
had left it.

Although Max Randolph managed to
spend as much time at West Grove House ashe
could without permanently taking up his
abode there, yet of course there were many
hours in the day — indeed, even occasionally a
whole day — when they had to exist without
the light of his presence. During these interludes
Eosemary devoted her leisure to the
cultivation of the household brigade. She
joked with Christie, rallied Conyers, tormented
Staples, and made Tregelva talk.

Of all the brotherhood, she found Tregelva
the most satisfactory. On the whole he repaid
her attention far better than did the
others. Indolent and nonchalant as he was, he
talked freely about himself to Eosemary, as,
indeed, he was quite willing to talk to any and

everyone. There was little or no reserve about
Tregelva; on the slightest encouragement he
was ready to wax autobiographical to any
extent. All the household might be, if they
chose, conversant with his history from his
earliest schooldays. He related with impersonal
equanimity and impartiality stories
of the various false starts he had made in
life — the scrapes he had got into, the debts
he had not paid (but which his long-suffering
governor ' had paid for him), the horses he
had backed, the men who had been his chums,
and even, when in an unusually confidential
mood, the women who had made love to him —
notably a certain pork-butcher's widow who
had ' set her cap at him ' at Monte Carlo ; but
if he had made love to any woman he told
it not ; and, to do Mr. Tregelva justice, the
few such anecdotes he was wont to tell were
narrated less in the spirit of a braggart than

of a languidly amused looker-on willing to
make his friends participators in his amusement.


He and Max Eandolpli have that one
quality in common,' remarked Eosemary;
they both talk about themselves, but with
this difference — that when we look back on
their conversations we find that Tregelva has
told us something, and Randolph liasnt!

Max Randolph sometimes arrived at the
West Grove by land, and sometimes by water ;
sometimes he rowed across the South Lake,
sometimes walked or drove round, and approached
the house on the east side. In the
sunny glare of the afternoon he usually found
a group taking shelter from the torrid sunbeams
on the east piazza ; in the evening it
was most frequently deserted for the more
popular south piazza looking on Lake Julia.

One afternoon, or rather evening, in the
last hour of clayhght, arriving by the east
gate, he met Violet alone, just coming down
the steps of the deserted east piazza. They
clasped hands with the easy and informal
greeting of those who meet every day, but
without a touch of coolness or indifference in
the salutation.

Did you ever see such a moon ! ' she
said. ' I was nearly stumbling down the steps
because I couldn't take my eyes off it.'

Dangers of moon-gazing,' he replied. ' A
good many people stumble that way, looking
up in the clouds and forgetting to look after
their feet on the earth.'

There's no greater error, though, than to
be always looking down in the mud and dust,'
she rejoined. ' The stars are as much a fact as
the gutter ; it's an error only to take one view,
whichever view the one may be.'

'Very true, Miss Violet. The difficulty
is to widen one's range to take in both. A
course of Shelley and a course of Zola combined
might do it perhaps. Unluckily, most
people find it easier to concentrate their attention
on the lower plane. For instance, don't
you think it would be much easier to paint a
Dutch cheese or a pumpkin than that moon ? '

Yes ; I think that is almost beyond an
artist's powers — even yours.'

They were looking, indeed, upon such a
moon as only Southern climes can show.

It was daylight still ; the first softness of
coming twilight had scarcely begun to veil the
sky in which ' the lights of sunset and of
moonrise mixed ' (if I may take the liberty of
altering one word in so well-known a quotation).


The day had been cloudy, and a faint dull
haze still brooded over the landscape, and subdued

the colours of the sunset. The west was
all dappled with tenderest rainbow hues, pale
primrose melting into pearly grey, and faint
azure flushing into delicate rose. In the east,
low down on the horizon, the moon, a great
globe of pale flame, larger far than the setting
sun, hung like a huge golden lamp in the
misty sky — a glorified and transfigured moon,
which defied portrayal. If any artist had ventured
on the attempt to depict it, and had
succeeded in his endeavour, a sapient public
would certainly have pronounced it a preposterous
exaggeration !

Max Randolph was appreciative of its
glory, but he did not waste much time in
expatiating on it; he came promptly to a
subject that touched him more nearly than
tropical moonlight.

Where's Eosemary ? ' he asked, casting
a quick glance around, as if he expected that

she must be somewhere not far off from Violet
as indeed anyone might naturally suppose she
would be.

She is out on Silver Lake. Mr. Tregelva
has taken her for a row.*

Didn't expect me, eh ? '

I suppose not. I am looking for them to
come back every minute — I was just setting
off to walk towards Silver Lake and meet her.'

Shall I be de trop if I come with you ? '
he asked, smiling, and in no doubt of the
answer.

There was no fear of his being de trop, and
they walked away together amicably across the
orange-grove.

The land east of the sun and west of
the moon ' looked its loveliest as it lay between
the fading roses of the couch of the dying king
of day and the golden glow of the rising
queen of night.

Even without that congenial companionship
which sets a keener edge on every sense
of pleasure or of pain, none who were susceptible
to the influences of their surroundings —
whose ears were unsealed to hear and to interpret
' the eloquent song of the silence
which has a different tale to tell to every
listener — could have failed to feel the soft and
soothing effect of the hour and place.

The pine-trees were silent and still ; no
whisper of wind stirred their stately repose.
On some of the orange-trees the golden fruit
still hung ; here and there the fallen oranges
lay in rich blots of colour on the bleached
white sand, or on the brown and sallow grass
which withered under the semi-tropical sun
that daily burnt more fiercely in the sky.
The lakes were like glass, reflecting as in a
mirror the fringing woods and fading sunset,
scarce a ripple washing against the rushy
shores.

All was fair, tranquil, and serene, as if the
day was sinking happily as a child to sleep in
the arms of Mother Night. The peace and
beauty of the scene, the sense of Max Randolph's
companionship, touched Violet with a
soft thrill of that pleasure which is ' akin to
pain.' As to Max, he looked — as he always
did — as coolly content without his Eosemary
as he looked with her. Presently he said in
answer to some remark of Violet's :

Yes, it's a peaceful, sweet place here. I
shall not be here much longer. I am going onto
the Gulf Coast — to Tarpon Springs and
Point Pinellas, and perhaps down to Saratoga
next week.'

So soon ! ' she exclaimed involuntarily,
with a half startled look.

'I meant to have gone a month ago. I
have been hungering here far beyond the time I
meant to stay. I must go next week.'

This announcement came home to Violet
with a curiously mingled impression of regret
and relief — regret that was simple and natural ;
relief which was to all appearance surely unreasonable
and unaccountable. Yet there it
was, unintelligible and vague, yet as much a
part of her feeling as the regret.

I have staid a long time, haven't I ? ' he
added, as if to push her to some responsive
remark.

Scarcely complimentary to us that it has
seemed so long,' she replied lightly.

It hasn't seemed long to me,' he rejoined.
Do you think you'll, any of you, miss me ? '

Of course we shall,' she assured him in the
tone of frankly affectionate friendship which
came naturally to her with him. ' We shall
miss you very much.'

I don't expect you to go as far as that,' he
said. ' No one is missed much or for long.'

You are an unbelieving old Diogenes ! '
she laughed.

And there's my tub,' he said, posting to
an ancient and broken cask which had been
thrown away" on the lake shore, having served
its day.

They had arrived at the usual landing-place
by this time, and the boat was in sight,
Tregelva leisurely rowing, Eosemary gracefully
reposing in the stern. A few minutes brought
them to the bank. Max Randolph offered
Eosemary his hand as she stepped ashore.

So you've come after me ? ' she said with
that daring, challenging glance and laugh, as
full of mockery as of coquetry, which gave
so many people the impression that Eosemary
was never in earnest. Violet, dutifully obeying
what she supposed to be Eosemary 's
unspoken wishes, glided gracefully into conversation
with Tregelva while he put up the

VOL. II. K

boat, thus giving Max and Eosemary the
opportunity to pair off and lead the way.

Had a pleasant row ? ' Max asked as they
walked on.

Yes — it's perfect on the water just now ! '

'Perfect, eh?' he rejoined, with a quick
glance under his brows.

Well, not quite perfect,' she admitted
smilingly ; ' I've just been thinking when it
would be perfect, though.'

When's that ? '

At night, by full moonlight.'

'You had better get some fellow to take
you.'

'Which of them can I get, I wonder? ' she
said, with pretended reflection.

Which one would you like ? '

'The first who asks me.' She glanced at
him with a laughing challenge in her eye.

I'll take you,' was his natural response.

'Is that asking?' she inquired. " ;

Will you come ? ' was his answering
inquiry.

She nodded.

I'll come.'

Eight, then. When ? What time ? '

Well, I don't think I can manage it this
evening. To-morrow evening. I'll let you
know about it tomorrow.'

The morrow came, and Eosemary consulted
Violet about her arrangements for this moonlight
excursion.

I want to go late, when the moon is high,
as it was last night when we walked to the
gate ; and it will be later to-night. But now
I don't want Tregelva — nor any of them, indeed
to see me going off with Randolph so late
in the evening. I think I'll be a little tired
and slip off early to my room. You see, if I
stay downstairs, they'll be wanting me to go

K 2

into the parlour and sing. So I'll go off to my
room ; then, when they've all come indoors,
yon come up to me, and I'll run down by the
back steps and meet Mr. Max in the grove,
and we'll just have half an hour or so's row.
We must go on Silver Lake, because that's not
overlooked by any of the windows.'

But, Eosemary,' said Yiolet, looking somewhat
aghast, ' if Mrs. Wentworth comes to our
room ? '

Why, she never does — not once in a blue
moon. Well, if by ill-luck she should you
must just do the best you can for me. Make
some excuse — headache, fresh air — you'd
better not know anything, only suppose. But
aunt never comes to our room, and — why,
dear me, Vi, if she docs, lock the door and
snore ! '

Isn't it rather rash of you to go out so
late, Hose ? ' Violet remonstrated. ' Hadn't

you better go a little earlier — while we're on
the piazza ? '

Why, my child, haven't I just told you
that's just what I want to avoid — setting off
before them all! As if an hour later, more
or less, could make a bit of difference ! — unless
Mrs. Grundy found it out, which I don't intend
she shall.'

I think it's very risky and reckless, Eose ;
but I suppose a wilful woman must have her
way ! '

You may be sure of that ! ' said Eosemary,
with a little toss of her head. ' But you're
such a timid little goose, Yi, and so awfully
afraid of old Mrs. Grundy. Do you remember
how I went to the masked ball with Tom
Philpott, and not a soul ever had the least
suspicion that I was there ? '

That was an audacious thing of you to
venture,' said Vi, with a deep breath of reminiscence.

' I think I was more alarmed for
you than you were for yourself.'

I'm sure you were,' Eosemary replied with

an affectionate smile. ' And poor Tom was

awfully nervous too ! But, you see, it went off

all right. There was I in my mask, enjoying

all the fun ; and no one has ever identified the

blue domino with me to this day.'

CHAPTEE XVIII.

LA BELLE DAME Sans MERCI !

The day wore away, and evening came — a
line moonlight evening, waxing ever brighter,
calmer, and lovelier as the moon rose higher
in the heavens ; and in accordance with her
deep-laid scheme Eosemary, stifling yawns and
looking sleepy, slipped away early from the
outdoor party and retired to her room, where
she beguiled the time by a novel until Violet —
whose role had been to cover her friend's retreat
from notice as much as possible, and do
double duty in the agreeable and social line —
joined her with report of proceedings.

They're all in the smoking-room except
Chad wick, in the parlour talking to Mrs.

Whitwortli ; and Tregelva and Conyers on the
south piazza, smoking, and looking as if they .
were going to sleep.'

They won't move,' observed Eosemary
securely. ' I'm not afraid of their going
prowling round the house while they have
got pipes and rocking-chairs. And Max has
gone to keep tryst, I suppose ? '

'Yes, he was on his way to the trysting-place.'


Well, I'll join him in a few minutes,' said
Eosemary, leisurely sitting up and beginning
to smooth back her hair. 'Now I leave you
sentinel, my dear. Keep the door. Lock it
if you like ; but, for goodness' sake, don't have
it locked when I come back, for I don't want
to make a clatter and rouse the house getting
in,' were her palling instructions. Then she
kissed Violet, with a confident and smiling toss
of her lovely head, gathered her black lace

shawl round her shoulders (for in prudence she
had chosen a black shawl instead of her usual
white one), and turned and slipped silently
as a shadow down the corridor to the back
balcony-steps.

Yiolet, left alone, found the time of Rosemary's
absence very long. She wondered
what she should do if Mrs. Wentworth came
to the door and called for Eosemary, and
wasted a good deal of apprehension on this
contingency long after Mrs. Wentworth was
safely shut in her own room and wooing her
well-earned slumbers. She dwelt again on the
old abiding wonder — how much Max Randolph
cared for Eosemary ? She took up a novel to
try and distract herself from thoughts of those
two, endeavoured to make up and nurse an
interest in its story, but in vain. Her ideas
wandered away from the page ; her eyes followed
the printed words mechanically, but

conveyed no meaning to her brain ; lier mind
was following Max and Eosemary on the
moonlit lake. An undefinable feeling of uneasiness
and trouble possessed her, curiously
mingled with a clinging as if for safety to the
thought of Max Randolph's departure for the
Gulf Coast ; something seemed telling her
clearly as a voice in her ear that it was well
he was going away so soon — well for them all.
She would miss him ; they would miss him.
He would leave a vacant place that would be
cold and sad to see ; and yet — and yet — alas
for them all, if Eosemary 's charms should
allure him to stay !

It seemed that Eosemary had been gone
for hours and hours. She looked at her watch ;
it was barely three quarters of an hour. She
sat by the window and looked out on the still
and tranquil landscape. Grove and wood and
lake all seemed sleeping in the utter silence ;

every tree and bush stood out clear in the
day-bright beams that bathed the earth in a
silver sea of light, and washed the outskirts
of the woods, yet left penetrated the shadows
in

The deeps of the dark-browed trees.

The serenity of the radiant night soothed
and tranquillised her ; its peaceful influence
seemed to collect the errant thoughts that
were darting hither and thither, and lay a
healing hand upon her throbbing brain. Yet
still a feeling like foreboding weighed upon
her. Presentiments of shadow and trouble,
vague and shapeless as those dusky mysteries
of forest and grove which the moonlight left
unrevealed, gathered like clouds over her
mental horizon.

In vain she repeated to herself for comfort,
He is going away on Monday, so things will

have no time to get serious with any of
us.'

That seemed but poor comfort after all.

How slowly the time passed ! Ko doubt it
was passing quickly enough with Max and
Eosemary, but to Violet it seemed a long and
weary vigil indeed that she kept, until her
quick ear detected a light, light footfall like
velvet outside the door, a delicate touch upon
the latch. She sprang up with a look of glad
relief and welcome as Eosemary glided in —
a radiant vision of beauty, her eyes shining
with amused triumph, the rarest, loveliest flush
suffusing her usually pale cheek. There was
in Eosemary, with all the ripened splendour of
her siren beauty, the general cynical pessimism
of her views, a good deal of the fun-loving
mischief of a child or a schooling. Such
mischief curved her red hips and danced in her
dimples now.

So glad you're back, dearie ! ' was Violet's
affectionate greeting. ' I've been so anxious ! '

Dear old Yi ! ' replied Eosemary, kissing
her with unusual effusion. ' I knew you'd have
the fidgets about me. But, you see, here
I am all right. Haven't got drowned, nor
run away with, nor bitten by a rattlesnake.
Haven't met a soul, and got out and home as
comfortably as possible.'

And have you had a nice row ? '

Oh, lovely ! The lake was as still as glass
and black as ink, except where the moon was
reflected in it just like a huge topaz — and as we
rowed over it the oars broke it up into ripples
of gold — and the air's like balm ! '

And full as it can hold of malaria,' observed
Violet sagely, uncorking a phial of quinine
and pouring some into a glass. ' Here,
Eosie, take this at once. Everyone says it's most
dangerous to be on the water at night here.'

So it is, I believe,' said Eoseinary, laughing,
but drinking off the dose. ' Poor Max !
he hasn't anybody to give Jim quinine. I
wonder if he doses himself.'

And you've enjoyed yourself, dear ? ' said
Violet, busying herself, helping Eosemary to
make, or rather to unmake, her toilette. ' And
Max — how was he ? '

In health he was very much as he was
when you bade him good-night an hour ago.'

I think it Alas rather a long hour,' observed
Violet. ' And in spirits ? ' she added
with playful inquiry.

'In spirits his majesty was much as usual,'
replied Eosemary. ' I think he wasn't over-pleased
at my being out with Tregelva when
he came yesterday. There's nothing like a
spurt of jealousy for bringing a man on. So
we had a bit of a quarrel and a making-up.'
Eosemary smiled in pleasing reminiscence.

She was sitting on the bed brushing her hair,
and looking her lovehcst, as she always did
with that rich tawny hair tumbled loose over
her shoulders.

We took our walk home rather slowly,'
she continued presently. ' Max wanted to
walk home with his arm round my waist. I
told him to take it away, just to see if he was
one of the obedient kind '

And was he ? ' her friend and confidante
asked as she paused.

'Well,' she replied slowly, 'he — wasn't. I
have successfully thawed the ice to-night. I
thought it was to be thawed.'

'But I suppose it isn't the ^r5^ time that
you have found it so ? I mean with him — so
much together as you have been of late ? '

Oh, of course he is always to a certain
extent amenable to feminine influence,' Rosemary
replied with her imperial air, which was

sometimes a little amusingly superb. ' I have
had a good deal of power over him for sometime,
I think, but he has never been quite so
demonstrative and outspoken as he has been
to-night. That coldness of his breaks up in a
volcanic kind of way,' she continued with the
air of a connoisseur appreciative yet critical.
^ There's plenty of fire under the icy crust.
He's a very good lover is Max.'

Eosemary's words, so coolly spoken, struck
straight home to Violet's heart. A strange
electric thrill ran through her, like the shock
and quiver that follow instantly on a sudden
blow, before the startled consciousness can
awake to pain. It was as if a flame had
shot up and cast an instant blaze of light
upon things dark before, and shrivelled up
a veil that had hidden her own heart from
her.

She was glad lier face was turned away

from Eosemary, for she felt herself turning
cold and pale — felt it beyond her power just
then to force her quivering lips to smile.

Eosemary, blissfully unsuspicious of the
way in which her words affected her friend,
talked on for awhile in a strain of satisfied and
complacent reminiscence.

Well, I don't know how you are, Vi,' she
observed presently, ' but / am very tired, and
I shan't be sorry to get to sleep. Aren't you
sleepy too ? '

Yes,' said Violet wearily, ' I am very
tired.'

'Well, we won't talk any more to-night,'
rejoined Eosemary amiably, having said all she
had to say. ' Let us shift our thoughts from
mortal man to Morpheus. I think to-night
there's no doubt that Morpheus will come at
my call,' she added, stretching her long fair
arms drowsily.

VOL. n. L

Soon, indeed, Eosemary lay lapped in sweet
and dreamless repose ; but Violet called upon
the god of balmy sleep in vain. She lay wakeful
but motionless, her open eyes brimming with
bitter tears that quivered on her lashes and
rolled silently down her cheeks.

The discovery of her own secret, revealed
by one flash of burning jealousy, dismayed
lier — filled her with pain and shame. She
had been blindfolded by her own ignorant
illusions of friendship ; but now the blinding
veil was torn roughly away, and lie saw the
truth.

She who had thought her day of love was
over — whose fond dream had been ' one life,
one love, one faith ' — who thought the passion
of her heart lay buried in her Arthur's grave —
she loved again — loved unsought, loved her
friend's lover, although she had not realised it
until that hour, when for the first time the

thought had been vividly presented to her
of Max Randolph as Eosemary's open and
declared lover, his normal impassive coolness
breaking up and melting in the fire of passion
for Eosemary. That picture, perhaps even
more sharply and clearly imaged ' in her
mind's eye ' than if she had seen it with her
body's sight, had burnt away in one flash of
light the veil with which she, all unconsciously
to herself, by mere blind instinct, had shrouded
her own secret. And now she felt like a
hunted thing. What could she do ? how
could she escape ? where flee from this ?

Happily, few indeed are the daughters of
Eve who are not dowered with a certain
amount of self-command when under the public
eye. Nature implants in them the instinct
of an innocent art in screening their secret
feelings, misleading curious glances, as the lapwing
lures attention away from her hidden nest.

l2

So next morning, in the breakfast-room and
on the piazza, Violet made herself pleasant and
sociable — talked and laughed as usual. But
she could not rouse herself to seem in her
accustomed spirits when she was alone with
Eosemary, and in a weak moment she admitted
that she had not a headache, and thus put aside
and out of her reach that excuse which is
sometimes an invaluable shield, sometimes no
more serviceable for its intended purpose than
the sand wherein the ostrich hides its head.

Eosemary 's curiosity was aroused.

'You look moped, Vi?' she said; 'why
don't you make one of those boys take you out
for a row ? There's Staples going to sleep for
want of something to do, and Christie smoking
in the courtyard. Make one of them take
you out.'

I don't care to go out.'

Why don't you amuse yourself, Vi ? '

Eosemary urged. ' There's plenty of fun to be
had here, if you would only go in for it. Why
do you let it all slip by you ? '

It would be no fun to me,' Violet replied
dispiritedly, even a shade irritably, with the
petulance of that soul-sickness which wears on
the nerves even more than physical ailment.

She certainly was looking pale and depressed
; her pretty lips had a disconsolate
droop ; she was so little in the habit of wearing
a mask with Eosemary that her looks betrayed
her troubled heart more plainly than
she intended or desired.

Eosemary looked at her intently, keenly ;
and a light broke on her.

I believe you really like Max Randolph
after all ! ' she said, launching this charge suddenly,
and in a voice a little colder and harder
than usual.

I am afraid I do.'

The words were spoken, and Violet could
not call them back. The admission had slipped
out from the natural impulse, the life-long
habit, of absolute frankness and truth with
Rosemary. The moment she had said it she
thought with a shock of dismay, ' What Have
I said ? ' She did not blush, as she must have
done if the confidence between these two had
been less perfect ; she only turned paler still —
pale to her lips, white with utter dismay at her
own unpremeditated and almost involuntary
confession.

A cloud darkened Eosemary's eyes; a
shade of ominous hardness gathered about her
mouth.

Why didn't you tell ' me so before ? ' she
demanded.

I never knew it myself till last night,'
Violet replied, sincerely enough.

They were both silent for a few moments.

Yiolet could not, to save her life, have put her
feelings into words ; her heart sank cold and
heavy like a weight of snow in her breast, and
the chill seemed to creep through all her veins
to her finger-tips, till lie shivered. Eosemary
was the first to speak —

This is a nice kettle of fish ! ' she said
brusquely, pressing her white teeth into her
full under-hp. 'What's to be done now? Yi,
what a little fool you've been not to tell me ! '

I have told you as soon as ever I knew it
myself,' said Violet in a subdued voice.

Things don't grow so suddenly as all that,'
Eosemary rejoined sensibly. ' Has he been
saying anything to you, Vi ? *

No, not a word, beyond his ordinary
friendly way of talking — not a syllable of
anything ! I told you all about the other
night, you know — the night of the bush fire ? '

He doesn't know, then ? ' Eosemary asked

with a keen questioning look. The blood
rushed to Violet's cheek, and mounted to her
very brow.

No, no,' she answered hurriedly and emphatically.
' I think I'd die before he should
know, Eose ! ' With eager appeal : ' You don't
think he has any idea ? '

No, I'm sure he hasn't,' Rosemary reassured
her with perfect frankness and sincerity.
' But now, Vi, this is a very awkward
business ! You have been a little donkey ! but
I suppose it's no use harping on that ! '

It's true — I have been a fool ! ' Violet
admitted, with deep regret. ' But, Eosemary,
what I've failed in is clearsightedness and
knowledge of myself — not in frankness towards
you. I didn't realise how much I was getting
to think of him till last night.'

That doesn't mend matters much now,'
replied Eosemary, more sharply than usual.

It's very awkward, now things have gone
so far.'

It is,' Violet agreed mournfully. ' Look
here, Eose,' she added, after a moment's
silence, looking Eosemary straight in the eyes,
do you care for him ? will you marry him
if he asks you ? '

Nos to both questions ! ' was the prompt
reply. ' He isn't at all the sort of man I'm
likely to care for. I wouldn't marry a poor
man ; I wouldn't marry an artist living from
hand to mouth; I wouldn't marry an American,
or any man but an Englishman — unless, indeed,
he were an unusually desirable match ! ' she
added with her fine practical common-sense.
And I don't think I would marry Max Randolph
under any circumstances,' she continued
clearly — ' not even if he were rich ! I don't
think his temper would suit mine a bit. There's
the truth for you, Vi — truth for truth. I don't

want to marry him ! But he's a man I take a
good deal of interest and pleasure in conquering.
He's rather a new kind of character forme
to deal with ; he piques me ; he interests
me ; and I want to hang his scalp at my
girdle.'

I know ; I understand,' said Violet, rather
sadly than bitterly. ' You want to deal with
him as you have dealt with others.'

It's rather a new experience, and one I
was looking forward to enjoy,' Eosemary rejoined
with defiant candour. 'And now you
want me to sacrifice it ? '

Violet was silent a moment or two, her
bosom heaving deeply.

'I thought — I always hoped, Eose,' then
she answered softly, brokenly, in tremulous
tones, ' that you would — once — only once — let
one man go free — if I asked you ? '

So I would, Vi, for you — I always promised

you that. But in this case, if I do let
him free, will it bring him any nearer to you ? '

It's not for that' Violet replied quickly,
with a ring of passionate protest in her voice.
It's not for my own sake. I don't suppose it
ever would brine: him one inch nearer to me.
I don't know that I even wish it should — now.
But I don't want you to fool Am, Eose, as you
have done the others.'

The dinner-bell here broke in upon their
colloquy, and they were obliged, and not unwillingly,
to shelve the unpleasing subject of
discussion for the present.

Come, Yi, we mustn't look as if there vas
anything up,' said Eosemary briskly and sensibly.
' Thank goodness, he isn't here to dinner
to-day ! '

They hastened to give a few touches to
their toilette, even more carefully than usual.
Violet put on a necklace and a knot of ribbon,

put on also a successfully serene and cheerful
expression, and they went downstairs, and
talked at table in as lively a way as usual ;
and if their vivacity was to-day a trifle forced,
no one took any notice of the fact.

That afternoon there was little or no confidential
intercourse between the two girls.
They neither sought nor seemed to avoid
opportunities of tete-a-tetes wherein to resume
the interrupted conversation of the morning.
They joined the general gathering on the
piazza as usual ; and, late in the afternoon,
Eosemary went for a drive in the buggy with
Mr. Wentworth, who was fond of his lively
niece and always glad of her company. While
getting ready she observed to Violet that ' he '
(no name of course being necessary) was coming
that evening ; and Violet only replied, in a
quiet, subdued way, ' Yes ? ' No more was
said ; and Eosemary started for her drive,

leaving Violet without the usual smile and kiss
with which they usually parted, if only for an
hour ; and for the first time in her life Violet
was glad to see Eosemary leave her, and rather
dreaded than wished for her return.

CHAPTER XIX.

IX Opposition.

When Eosemary had gone out, Violet — to the
discomfiture of Staples, who was roaming about
in quest of her — remained secluded in her
room, and gave herself up to distressful reflection
on the uncomfortable and unexpected development
of the last few hours. The burthen
of her thought was the painful realisation of
the undeniable fact, only realised too late, of
her own folly — weakness — blindness.

Why did I not see it before ? ' she asked
self reproachfully, angry with herself and
scornful of herself, ' or why did I see it
now, at last ? Why did I not speak that
night, only such a short time ago, when Rosemary

threw her cards on the table — told me
to speak then or for ever hold my peace ?
Oh, I remember even then the words struck
me ! I ought to have taken warning. But then
I did not know : I was blind — I did not see
where I was drifting ! Only a fortnight or so
ago, and is it already too late ? Is harm
already done that cannot be undone ? has
she got his heart in her grip, to fool him and
torture him like the others ? Oh, why should
I care so much ? This folly, this sheer madness
of mine — it shall be conquered ! I will stamp it
out — I will I One does not love twice, not with
anything worthy the name of love. I had my
day of love, and that is over — was over long
ago ! '

Probably Violet's rooted idea that she had
had her day ' and should love no more — that
love came but once in a life — had helped to
blhid her to the significance of her deepening

and warming interest in Max Randolph. She
had believed her heart proof against love ; and,
so believing, had been blind to what she should
have recognised as danger-signals in her own
feelings in his company.

She realised this now — perceived that she
could not lay the responsibility of this present
complication all on the broad shoulders of
destiny ! It was not only evil fate or chance,
but her own folly and weakness, which had
brought her and Eosemary at last into an attitude
of collision. For the first time in their
lives they two stood in opposition. What
would be the result if they should remain
in opposition ? Alas ! Violet, fully realising
Eosemary 's beauty, power, and wayward will,
had not the smallest doubt in her heart which
would be the conquering force if it should
come to a conflict !

But, conflict with Eosemary? Eose, her

nearest and dearest, her true and tender
Eose ! Why, it was surely a horrible, unnatural,
impossible, contingency !

Does he really care for her yet ? ' she
asked herself, in pained and restless soliloquy,
walking up and down the room. ' Is there
time to save him from trouble if she would
release him now, or has it already gone too
far ? Poor Tom Philpott, what a state he
was in about her ! how he used to go about
forlornly, looking like a haggard ghost. And
Edgar Peyton, poor fellow ! he fairly broke
down and sobbed like a woman when he came
and told me it was all over between them.
And Mark Bridges, he went altogether to the
dogs, and I shall always believe it was that
affair which sent him there. But now. Max,
he never would howl his woes out loud, and
cry, and confide in people, and so he would
suffer all the more. Oh, I hope — I hope

VOL. II. M

there's time, if she will only be generous !
Then I shan't regret this however much I
suffer myself, even if I never see him again.
He is too good — too good to be dragged at
her chariot-wheels, and dissected for her
whim. But, will she sacrifice the triumph of
this conquest ? With power such as hers, is it
not too much to expect that she should resist
the temptation to use it ? She may rivet her
chains on him, fix him captive, this very evening.
He will come, he is sure to come ; and
who knows what spirit may move her tonight
? Whether she fixes her grappling-irons
on him, or lets him go, except for his sake,
it will be all the same to me now, after this
thrice unlucky day. If only she were in
earnest, or if I could but be sure that he is
not I If she cared for him, I would help her in
all ways ; I would, at any cost to myself. Or,
if he were only playing the game she has so

often played, then I would not lift a finger
to interfere. But to think that she is just
fooling him ; that it's mere sport to hers and
to him earnest ; that it might spoil at least a
season of his life ! '

Violet's serious lips suddenly curved into a
smile — a somewhat bitter smile, but withal of
genuine amusement, as the thought flashed
across her of how exceedingly ungrateful for,
and resentful of, her tender sympathy Max
would certainly be. And she liked him none
the less as she pictured to herself with what
scornful and angry hauteur what ironical disdain,
he would fling her back that sympathy
if he had but the very faintest idea that she
was bestowing it upon him.

But, thank heaven ! she thought, he does
not know, shall not know, never will know.
For into her heart, guarded by the triple walls
of faith and purity and affection, no tiniest

M 2

reptile of distrust of Eosemary's loyalty could
creep.

That evening the sky clouded as the twilight
fell ; and as Max Randolph, true to his
tacit tryst, arrived, the rain came pelting down,
and prevented the customary piazza lounging,
and also precluded all probabilities of garden
and balcony tete-a-tetes.

The two girls received the unconscious
object of their conflicting interests in their
ordinary way — with greetings perhaps a trifle
cooler and lighter than in general ; but, as the
meeting was under many eyes, there was
nothing noticeable in this, even to his quick
perceptions. The parlour was, as usual in
cold or wet weather, the general resort, and
music the order of the evening. Eosemary
appeared in no way to rebuff' or discourage
Max Randolph ; she smiled upon him as

brightly as usual, but somehow she drew
Conyers and Tregelva to her side, and kept
them there, both whilst she was at the piano and
afterwards when Mrs. Wentworth and Violet
in turn took place at the instrument to play
or sing. She smiled her sweetest on her trio
of cavaliers, and told them laughingly to
divide the pleasing duty of turning over the
leaves for her, and take it in fair turns. Max
was not used to take turns with any one, but
he betrayed no discomfiture nor annoyance,
although Violet, who knew his face so well, detected
that he was something less than pleased.
Violet also, this evening, dexterously
managed to avoid, without in any way seeming
to avoid. Max Randolph. She let Christie
turn over the leaves of her music for her, and
consulted Staples as to what she should sing,
and presently sat back on the corner settee
with Staples, and looked over an album with

him. Archibald St. Julian's countenance wore
an unusually serene and contented expression,
not wholly to be accounted for by the fact
that he had got his favourite seat in his
favourite corner ; and he seemed to find the
album, over which his head was bent near
to Violet's, full of peculiarly enthralling and
engrossing matter. Violet, also, kept a pleasant
smile on her lips, as if she too was well content
; but Staples's satisfaction would have been
crumbled to ashes of humiliation could he
only have known how utterly unconscious of
his presence was the girl who sat by his side,
and whose eyes, looking down on the book he
held for her, saw only between lier and the
page a blur and mist.

Eosemary was singing Carmen's song,
Labour est Infant de Believe ! ' and never
had her rich sweet voice rung out with more
dramatic force and fire. She gave full significance

to that touch of sinister foreboding, of
half unconscious presentiment of ill, which
underlies the reckless dash and sparkle of a
gaiety wild and dangerous as the play of the
forked liditninsr : —

Si tu ne maimed pas, je traite,
Si je traite, prends garde a toi !

It was the sportiveness of the tigress, stretching
out a velvet paw, with the death-stroke ready
in its sheathed points of steel.

To the last day of Violet's life, whenever
she hears that song, it will bring back that
hour to her (or so she feels to-day), and she
will see Eosemary at the piano in her blue
dress, the lamplight shining on her red-gold
hair, Tregelva standing beside her with one
hand on her music ; on the other side, Conyers
and Christie, tall and young and handsome,
mounting guard ; and, at a little distance, Max
Randolph, looking over some music with a cool.

imperturbable face. When had she seen Max
Randolph stand alone before ? He was not
allowed to stand alone very long now. Mrs.
Wentworth, cheery and comely, beckoned him
to a place by her side, and began chatting in
her brisk bright way.

The party were breaking up, the first
good-nights were beginning to be said, and
Max Randolph was taking his leave. Still
Eosemary seemed engrossed with Conyers and
Tregelva ; the three stood in a Httle group
apart, and her sweet, low, peculiar laugh
trilled out in chorus with theirs, as if they
were all enjoying a full feast and flow of
humour. ' : [

And still Staples hung round Violet, who
was standing by the open parlour door ; but
her attention to him was flagging, which he
was quick enough to perceive, and, as Max

Randolph came up on her other side, Staples
fell back sulkily but promptly. Max stood by
Violet with that proprietary air which he often
had with women, and which women generally
liked.

I want a word with Eosemary,' he said ina
low voice, but with his usual cool matter-of-fact
air. ' ' ' ;

Shall I tell her so ? ' she answered.

If you will.'

I don't know whether I can get at her
just at present,' she observed, glancing at the
talkative trio a little way off, of which Rosemary
was evidently the life.

Not now ; no hurry,' he said. ' But tell
her' ril be here tomorrow evening, after
supper, and I would like to see her alone
if possible.'

This message Violet delivered, simply and
without comment, in the seclusion of their

room ; and without comment Rosemary received
it. Both girls were in a silent mood.

'We'll talk tomorrow, Yi,' said Rosemary,
as usual taking the lead. ' I don't
feel inclined for talking it out to-ni<zht. I
want to think over things.'

Eosemary, thinking, and Violet, not only
thinking, but wondering what her friend's
thoughts were — probably neither of them enjoyed
the deep and dreamless tranquillity of
such sleep as is the best and truest ' balm of
hurt minds.' The next morning, they rose and
dressed and went down to breakfast without
any allusion to the subject that lay like a
shadow between them and filled their thoughts.
But later in the forenoon, Ashen the little daily
bustle and excitement of the arrival of the mail
was over, and the two girls had withdrawn to
their room, ostensibly to read their letters and
papers, Eosemary, sweeping aside the day's

budget — in which there was nothing of interest
to either of them, broached the topic in which
there was only too much of interest for them
both.

Look here, Vi,' lie said abruptly and yet
deliberately, ' I'll throw up this game ; I'll let
him alone henceforth, if he does nothing to
pique me. If he is in earnest with me I'll give
up the conquest, and anyone who cares for
him may have him, for all I care ! But if he is
playing with me I will play the game out,
and turn it into earnest before I have done
with him ! If it is only a game with him, it
shall be a game with me, too ; and we will see
who will win.'

Violet listened, growing very pale, with a
sinking heart.

Think over it before you make up your
mind,' she said softly and sadly, her breath
coming short.

I am thinking,' retorted Eosemary. ' For
no one but you would I think or hesitate at
alL Max interests me and amuses me. I am
enjoying this play you ask me to give up. I
don't think any one has a right to ask such a
sacrifice of me.'

^ . ' It is not for my own sake I ask it. I
don't suppose your giving him up would bring
him an atom nearer to me. I — I don't think
I even wish it should — now. ' It's of you that
I'm thinking, Eose, as much as of him. I
thought you — ' Vi paused a moment to swallow
something that tried to rise in her throat,
before she continued, in a voice carefully
steadied — ' I — thought — you would do this —
once, and only once — for me.'

If I do, it must be of my own free will.'
I wonder, will you do it ? ' said Violet,
fixing her sad, soft, searching eyes on the
beautiful, proud, half-defiant face.

I wonder too,' said Eosemary, in as frank
and doubtful conjecture as if she had been
speculating about some other person's affairs.
I know,' Violet rejoined, ' as well as if I
could see into your heart, the battle you're
fighting with yourself: all the good in you
arrayed against all the evil.'

You call it evil ! ' said Rosemary, a faint
flush suffering her ivory cheek.

Is it good ? ' her friend responded gently
but unflinchingly.

I am as I was made,' was the answer.
The leopard cannot change his spots.'

No,' Violet agreed softly, sadly, looking
down, with an uncontrollable sigh that swelled
lier heart almost like a sob. She knew it only
too well, that Eosemary ' was as she was made,'
as man had helped to make her. Treachery of
one man had made lier merciless to men, sceptical
of their fiiith, scornful of their love.

That day the two friends were but Httle
together, and when they were together and
tete-a-tete^ were silent. They were both thinking,
thinking too deeply to speak their thoughts
aloud ; the one matter of reflection that held
entire possession of their minds kept them
apart, further apart than they had ever, during
all their long friendship, been before. Two
forces of almost equal strength were warring
in Eosemary's heart, while Violet strove against
and kept in subjection the impulses of passionate
painstaking which every now and
then rose and struggled for utterance at her
lips. For to breathe one word that savoured
of reproach to Eosemary now touching any or
all of the mischief her vanity and coquetry had
worked, would be to ruin all.

There was so much that was good in Rosemary
— and who knew it so well as Violet ?
She knew now, as well as if Eosemary had

put her heart into words, how all the tenderness,
all the generosity, all the loyalty, all the
best of her nature urejed her to set Max
Randolph free from the toils she had woven
round him, if he might yet be freed in time,
while the demon of ruthless and unscrupulous
vanity bade her hold him fast, complete her
conquest, at all costs. Violet knew that now if
she failed in self-command, in tender forbearance,
in the silence that left Eosemary to
wrestle in her self-conflict alone, and let her
best impulses fight their own battle — one hasty
or impulsive . word of hers would rouse that
haughty and wayward spirit, which never yet
had risen in arms against Iter.

But now that her very love for Violet
made her sensitive — her heart alive to feel, her
spirit quick to resent, a look or tone that
savoured ever so faintly of reproach — now
Violet knew that, a moment's imprudence of

hers, and the demon would conquer the angel
in Eosemary, and she would carry the game
out ' to the bitter end,' all the more unscrupulously
if it cost her that friendship which
perhaps was the affection she valued most in
life.

For flirtations and romances waxed and
waned with the passing seasons ; and ' Change
is the law of wind and moon and lover ! ' but
Violet's unchanging tenderness and faith had
been as

A tower of strength, that stood four-square to all the
winds that blew.

And now, if to complete the victory over Max
Randolph must cost her this price, if she must
lose Violet to win him, then indeed he might
look for small scruple, small mercy from Rosemary
! Violet fully realised the whole position
felt the weight of the responsibility which
lay on her. ' Oli, I see the danger-signals,'

she sighed to herself. 'One moment's imprudence,
one impulsive word of mine, and she
will throw down the gauntlet ! She will fool
him and part from me, and we shall all be
made miserable. She will lure him on only to
throw him over, and we shall lose each other
after all these years. A week ago, how impossible
it would have seemed that we could
ever lose each other, Eose and I ! Yet how
can we ever be the same to each other again if
she fails me here ? All our lives, since we were
children, I have trusted that there was one soft
spot in her vanity's armour of proof. Always
I have had faith in her old promise that she
would make one sacrifice once for me — always
trusted that, if the time should come, for once,
just once, our love for each other would prove
stronger and dearer to her than her love of
conquest. I have lost Max! After all this,
now that I know my own incredible folly, he

VOL. II. N

is lost to me ; and must I lose my Eosemary
too ? Why, if we were parted, Eosemary and
I, it seems as if there would be nothing left.
We are all drifting among the breakers — and,
oh ! how will it end ? '

CHAPTER XX.

GOOD-NIGHT AND Good-bye !

That afternoon two incidents ' came as a boon
and a blessing to ' the West Grove House company
to break the monotony of daily life.
They were very trivial incidents ; but it takes
only a tiny pebble to make a stir in a stream
so placid and unruffled, not to say sluggish, as
existence in the Arcadian tranquillity of West
Grove House, lying peacefully amidst its encircling
lakes and woods, so far from the busy
world.

Incident Number One was a visit from
the Fraserss, who drove over from their estate
in a very rickety and tumble-to-pieces old
buggy, borrowed from an obliging neighbour.

N 2

Incident Number Two was the arrival of a new
member of the household, fresh from England,
another young man committed by his parents
to Mr. Wentworth's guardianship. The newcomer
was a fat and freckled youth, got up in
full tourist costume — in knickerbockers, ' patent
ventilating hat,' andpuqgaree — with guide-book
and field-glass strapped to his back, and fitted
travelling-bag — containing all requisites, from
razors to shave his unknown beard to Russia
leather blotting-case and silver-topped toilet
bottles — in his hand. He came with a huge
new trunk, containing a complete outfit for
the tropics, as recommended by a fashionable
West End establishment ; he came primed with
information about Florida, its climate, soil,
productions, and prospects ; he also came provided
with precautionary and defensive appliances
— a Colt's revolver, a small pharmacopoeia
in a medicine-chest, and a quart bottle

of quinine. Being an unsophisticated youth,
he in an unwary moment confided to his new
comrades in the smoking-room that his mother
had instructed him to take a daily dose of
quinine for the first forty days, and carefully
to avoid being out-of-doors at sunset.

Tregelva, languidly amused, resorted the
newcomer's prudential intentions to Eosemary,
who thereupon took a mischievous pleasure in
offering to be the young man's guide in a walk
round the groves. Having got him fairly
away from the house and in her power, she
took him to the lake-shore, and detained him
there whilst the sun sank and set, and the
twilight closed, and confidentially pointed out
to him a mist in the distant woods as rising
miasma.

Anyone who comes out to Florida must
not take account of such trifles as mosquitoes
and malaria,' she told him cheerfully. ' The

mosquitoes haven't come yet, but they'll be
here in force in a few weeks. They love a
fresh and tender newcomer, and they'll have
a line feast on you ; but you mustn't mind
that;

The Fraserss were full of glowing accounts
of their pioneer life — the acres they had cleared,
the trees they had felled, Ned's prowess as
woodman and Jack's achievements as cook.
They related gleefully as the best of jokes how,
one evening when they came home wet, tired,
and hungry, they found the rain had come in
through a chink in the roof, and soaked bed
and board, wood-pile and flour-bag, and, worst
of all, even got at their matches, so that,
breadless and fireless, they had nothing but a
tin of potted lobster whereof to make a meal.

What with the mild amusement of the
new arrival, with his guide-book and his
quinine and his assorted array of facts about

Florida, and the visit of the Erasers and
interest in their doings, the supper was an
unusually lively meal, and afterwards, when
the whole party mustered in full force on the
piazza, conversation ran in full, brisk, and vivacious
flow.

The larger and livelier the party, the better
the opportunities of either avoiding or seeking
tete-a-tetes. Thus when Max Randolph made
his appearance, he and Violet and Eosemary,
each and all realised at once that, if he desired
a few words alone with Eosemary, this evening
was likely to afford excellent opportunities — if
she were so minded. But apparently she was
not. She greeted him gaily, but only for a
moment interrupted her conversation with
others to welcome him. She was at her
brightest self. She was keeping Tregelva,
Ned Eraser, and the newcomer amused with
her vivacious chatter, and was also successfully

and ingeniously ' drawing out ' the latest arrival
for the entertainment of the other two, who
where thoroughly appreciative. She was the
life of the party. She had no time to spare
for Max Randolph. There was not a place for
him near her — how could there be, when she
had Tregelva sitting on the one hand, Robinson
— the new arrival — on the other, and Ned
Fraser stretching his length at her feet ?

This was the second evening that Max had
found her so occupied with others that she had
no attention to bestow on him, and until these
two evenings it had never happened so. The
hint conveyed was not lost upon him, ever
quick, even unreasonably quick, to accept such
hints. He turned to Violet. She welcomed
him with a light bright smile, and was ready
to talk to him with her wonted gentle vivacity ;
but, as she had Staples attached to her other
side — Staples firmly and contentedly anchored,

and showing no sign of moving — and as she
divided her attentions quite fairly and equally,
and betrayed no tell-tale sign of inclination to
allows a monopoly either to one or the other,
the conversation was an open and general one,
and became still more public as Christie and
Jack Eraser, obeying laws of natural attraction,
were drawn into Miss Preston's circle and
swelled the train of her little court.

The evening wore on in a buzz of lively and
superficial babble and gossip and mirth ; and
presently, as in time the grouping of the party
naturally shifted and changed and fell into new
combinations, Christie had somehow come to
occupy Max Randolph's place beside Violet,
and Eosemary had sauntered to the front of
the broad piazza and was standing looking out
across the moonlit grove, Tregelva by her side.
Max Randolph, a little apart, was looking at
Rosemary ; and Violet, her head bent in the

shadow towards Christie, her attention apparently
engrossed by an anecdote Christie was
telling, had her eyes on Max.

She saw him watch his opportunity ; she
saw him make straight for Eoseinary when
Mrs. Wentworth, appealing to Tregelva on
some point under discussion, called the latter
away from her niece. Violet's eyes followed
Max to Eosemary's side. They were a little
apart from the rest. lie stood close by her and
looked at her for a moment without speaking.
She looked up full in his face, her fair head
held erect, with that graceful hauteur which
became her queenly beauty well, and smiled
at him with her bright cold smile.

Warm this evening,' she observed with
nonchalant ease.

Yes, it's warm,' he agreed, briefly and
unsmiling. ' Won't you come for a turn in
the garden, Eosemary ? '

Xo,' she answered simply, smiling still.

Why not ? '

Is a woman bound to have a reason ? '

She generally has one ; but a man would
be a fool to expect her to give it.'

Therefore, of course you would not plead
guilty to the folly of expecting it ? ' she rejoined
lightly.

He gazed at her steadily, keenly.

You know, Eosemary, I'm going on Monday.
Will you meet me once more before
I go?'

She looked up as if meditating.

I don't think I can,' she said coolly, after
a moment's reflection.

You can,' he said, ' if you loll.'

He paused for a reply. She smiled quietly,
coldly, but gave none.

Well ? ' he said interrogatively.

Well ? ' she replied, with a final air, which

implied that she at least did not think there
was anything more to be said.

Here Mrs. Wentworth broke in.

Mr. Randolph can tell us, I'm sure. Mr.
Randolph, do you know if it's true that young
O'Brien is off his bargain for Galbraith's land
at Wekiva ? ' And Max found no further
opportunity afforded him of a word with
Eosemary that evening ; nor had he even the
chance of entrusting a private and confidential
message to Violet, for, with an instinct of
grateful loyalty to Eosemary, she carefully
avoided drifting apart with him into those
asides ' which had become quite an inst -
tuition.

That night, when the two friends — friends
still, although in a sense they might now be
considered as rivals too — found themselves
alone, the babbling stream of back-hair gossip.

always let loose upon the day's doings Ashen
the day was over, did not flow as freely as
usual. They talked a little of Staples and
Tregelva, a little of the newcomer ; both, as
if by mutual understanding, avoided the subject
of mutual interest, until the shallow chitchat
had dropped into silence, the lights were
put out, and it was time for sleep. Then
Eosemary abruptly broke in upon the subject
that had been shut apart as if under strict
taboo,

Well, Yi,' she said, ' he is going on Monday,
and he may go, for me ! '

A moment's silence, then she added,
Good-night, Yi,' and bent over her friend and
kissed her. And as she gave that good-night
kiss, Yiolet felt a warm drop on her cheek that
had not fallen from her own eyes.

Not a word more was uttered then. But
until she slept that night, and first thing when

she woke next morning, Violet puzzled herself
as to the significance of that tender kiss, that
silent tear. Lie scarcely dared to let herself
hope its meaning might be that Eosemary
thenceforth gave up her conquest of Max
Randolph — sacrificed her love of power to her
love of her friend. Or did that tear mean
good-bye to Violet's love, to their long friendship
— mean that she would at all costs play
the game out to the bitter end ; that he might
go, but should leave his heart behind with her,
that she might draw him back to her when she
chose ? Or was it — and this seemed to Violet
most probable — was it that she was making
some silent compromise with herself, some conditional
resolution depending on the results of
the morrow's meeting? For, of course, there
would be a meeting tomorrow. Max would
never leave the neighbourhood without another
glimpse of Eosemary, without the desired few

words with her. The next morning they kept
silence still on the subject of such mutual and
painful interest ; but all the old affectionate
familiarity, which had been interrupted — temporarily
suspended, but not abolished — for a
day, was renewed between them. Eosemary
was all sweetness and amiability, Violet all
gentleness ; and gradually, as the day wore
on, the tremulous hope grew and strengthened
in her heart that Eosemary did mean to be
generous — to surrender her victory for Violet's
sake.

In the afternoon nearly all the West Grove
party drove over to the great Osceola Hotel,
which was an open lounge and general resort
for miles around. People went there to lunch,
to dine, to sup, or simply to walk about the
park-like grounds and splendid piazzas, to
row or sail in the little fleet of pleasure-boats
on the lakes. Mr. Wentworth took young

Eobinson in his buggy, to fill the role of the
new comer's guide, philosopher, and friend — to
show him in what a region of delights his
lines had fallen, to what an earthly paradise
his wise guardians had committed him.

It was a glorious day of azure skies and
burning sunshine, tempered by a breeze so
soft and balmy, it seemed to blow straight
from heaven. The Osceola Hotel and grounds
were gay with lively parties, the inmates, their
visitors, and a goodly gathering of those neighbours
to whom the Osceola was the favourite
goal of their Sunday walk, ride, or drive.
The West Grove party dispersed themselves
according to taste and affinity. Mr. Whit-worth
walked young Eobinson about with
him, and introduced him to those acquaintances
he deemed discreetly, wisest, and best.
Some of the young men joined the Staunton
House company; some — following in the train

of Violet and Eosemary — went up on the roof,
which was a popular resort, arranged for safety
and comfort, with chairs and benches dotted
about and a parapet running round it. Heads
hatted and bonneted, veiled and puggareedy
were constantly popping up or disappearing
down the trap-door which afforded access to
this enjoyable and elevated region. Young
men and maidens were strolling or sitting
about in pairs. Eosemary and Violet had a
couple of attendants apiece to help them to
enjoy the view, and lend then field-glasses, and
fix the focus right to suit their lovely eyes, and
count the numerous lakes and wavelets, gleaming
blue as the sky in the sunshine, dotting the
level landscape of pine-wood and orange-grove
which stretched away until its green gleams of
light and deeps of shade were lost in the soft
amethyst haze which veiled the horizon.

The whole party stayed to supper at the

VOL. II. o

Osceola, and after supper Eosemary proposed
another ascent to the roof to enjoy the view
by moonlight. Tregelva and Christie were
prompt in accepting her suggestion, and Violet
and Staples too quickly fell into the upward-bound
party. The wide, fair landscape, beautiful
in the Golden sea of sunshine that had bathed
it but a few hours earlier, was even lovelier
now in the colourless splendour of the pearl-pure
moonlight. Far and near, even to the horizon,
the lakes lay like gleams and breaks of silver
in the dusky woods.

The young people lingered on their lofty
plateau, enjoying the tranquil glory of the
night, and in no hurry to descend to the lower
world. Presently Violet caught sight of a
familiar hat and head emerging from the
shadow of the trap-door into the open flood
of moonlight. She recognised the soft broad-brimmed
hat indeed even before she could

distinguish the face it shaded ; and adroitly-managing
to leave her two cavaliers to entertain
each other, she turned aside and made one
quick, impulsive step to meet Max Randolph
as he arrived upon the roof and looked around
him.

I thought you would be here,' he observed
as they shook hands.

You have come for one more last word ? '
she said half laughingly, half in earnest significance.
He bent his eyes on her as if silently
asking how much she meant, how much she
knew ?

Eosemary's engaged as usual, I sae,' he
said, glancing at the remote corner whence the,
enchantress was surveying the most distant of
the lakes through Tregelva's glass.

13ut you shall have your word for all that,'
Violet replied, and to herself she added, ' If he
wishes a word with her, he shall have it, and.



she shall see that she is free as air for me.
I leave the fair field open to her to have her
way and make her choice.'

She piloted Max — talking lightly and easily
to him, so that he could not but follow where
she led — to Rosemary's side. She had no need
to cast a look at Eosemary ; the understanding
between the two girls was too perfect to require
expression by glance or gesture. Rosemary
knew that Violet would attract Tregelva's
attention to herself and drift gently and gradually
apart with him, leaving Max by hei ; and
exactly so it came to pass.

Eosemary, still standing by the parapet,
cast a side glance up at Max Randolph, but
appeared chiefly occupied in putting Tregelva's
glass away in its morocco case.

I've come here to say good-bye,' said Max.

When are you going ? ' she asked, smiling



I have arranged to start on Tuesday
morning early.'

Oh, not tomorrow ? ' she rejoined. ' Well,
are you not coming in tomorrow afternoon or
evening then ? '

If I come he said in a voice a trifle lowered,
' what shall I find ? '

The usual company and the usual conversation.'


As I found it last night and the night
before ? '

About the same, I suppose.'

Well, Eosemary, then it's good-bye now ? '

She had turned to face him as they talked,
and was leaning, half sitting, in an attitude full
of careless grace, on the parapet that guarded
the giddy height from which they looked down
on the grounds below. The moonlight was
bright enough for him to see the little feathery
locks of red-gold hair on her temples, just

faintly stirred by the soft night breeze, the
pale, clear outline of her face, the dark depths
of the eyes that looked up into his. Their
gaze, with all its fearless daring, rather concealed
than revealed. Fully and freely as
they met his, there seemed a kind of mocking
challenge in their look, as if rather to defy him
to guess what lay beneath their half-disdainful
smile than to divulge it.

He dwelt with a kind of reluctant fascination
on that beautiful pale face, so hard to
read aright — those eyes that, if they were indeed
the windows of the soul, were veiled
windows.

No more moonlight rows,' lie said after a
pause.

Was not one enou2[]} ? ' she asked a shade
more softly.

One too many,' he replied abruptly, and,
as if forced by some resistless spell, he bent

closer to her. No one was near. Violet had
dutifully and discreetly drawn Tregelva well
away, and a stack of chimneys near their
corner partially screened Max and Eosemary
from the view of the rest, who were also
thoroughly occupied with their own conversation.
He leant over her till his breath almost
fluttered the loose locks of her hair ; his hand
lightly touched hers, then grasped it.

Was it — the last? ' he added in a deeper
tone.

I think so,' she answered coolly. ' One
wearies of things when they are repeated too
often. It's better not to let them get monotonous.'


She looked up at him with her defiant

smile, cold as a moonbeam glinting on a glacier,
and drew her hand from his. In the
clear moonlight she could see a dark flame
leap and flash for a moment in his eyes. Only

for just a moment ; it glittered like a 
and was ozone.

You may play this game once too often,
Eosemary,' he said with a sort of deep, compelled
quietude. ' It is women like you who
turn a man into a devil.'

He moved away from her, left her alone
while still the sudden consciousness of the
giddy height on whose brink she leant was
thrilling her — not unpleasantly, for Eosemary
reached keen sensations — but it need hardly
be said that she was not left alone for long, as
Violet was quick to perceive the time for
restoring Tregelva to his allegiance.

The West Grove House party left the
Osceola before Max Randolph did. He was
going to enjoy a smoke with some congenial
spirits, but he spared a few minutes to bid a
cordial good-night to the Whitworths, and thank
them for all their kindness and hospitality.

Shan't we see you tomorrow as you don't
start till Tuesday morning ? ' said Mrs. Whit-worth.
' Come to supper or dinner — any time.
You know you're always welcome.'

Thanks,' he said cordially ; ' ' you are
always kind. I am afraid I shall scarcely have
an hour free tomorrow, but if I do I will
afflict you with a farewell visit.'

Well, it will be afflicting,' she answered
heartily, ' for honestly, Mr. Randolph, we shall
all be sorry to lose you. But I think we shall
soon have you back ; you'll soon see all there
is to be seen on the Gulf Coast.'

Good-night,' said Eosemary gaily as he
turned to her. ' Is it good-bye or au revoir ? '

Which is it ? ' he responded drily.

He turned to Violet, took her willing hand,
and looked down on her sweet, pure face, with
its frank and gentle smile. For Violet, * pure
womanly,' essentially feminine in her strength

as in her weakness, betrayed no faintest sign
of embarrassment or constraint with him, was
calm and candid in look and tone as ever, even
now that she had confessed, not only to herself
but to Eosemary, that she had given her heart,
unasked and unsought, to this man, into whose
eyes she looked up clearly and innocently
without a blush.

Good-night, Miss Violet,' was all he said
to her at parting, but he said it very gently.

Was it simply as tender as a brother's
good-bye to a dear sister? or was it just a
shade tenderer? Often in after-days Violet
asked herself this, but never could find even in
her own heart an answer.

CHAPTER XXL

OUT OF THE WOOD.

Rosemary fell back into her old habit of frank
and free confidence with Violet that nidit, and
related to her in full detail the brief episode of
her interview with Max Randolph on the roof,
even to his last words.

He did look as if it wouldn't have taken
much to have raised the devil in him to-night ! '
she said, dwelling regretfully on the reminiscence
as if on a bright lost chance.

Violet interpreted her tone aright, and
breathed a silent, heartfelt, and devout
thanksgiving that the chance incas lost, and
then trembled a little lest her thankfulness
should be premature. For, after all. Max

was not yet gone ! And it is an ill omen to
exult too soon !

I have jumped a wide ditch for you, Vi ! '
said Eosemary, in a tone that was half of conscious
virtue, the other half reproachful and
resentful of the sacrifice she had made.

You have ! ' Violet agreed, equally emphatically
and appreciatively. 'I know it is
the widest ditch that you could jump ! '

'I would have done it for no one in the
world but you,' continued Eosemary.

And I never would have asked it of you
for myself \ ' Violet rejoined. ' I never wanted
to take him from you. He is going, and let
him go — from me as well as from you ! I only
wanted you not to play with him when he was
in earnest ! '

And are you satisfied now ? '

Yes ! ' and her clear eyes said more than
words. ' And I think it is well, not only for

him ! Eose, don't you think that if he was in
earnest — and of course he was — for if he had
not been, you would not have let him go ? ' she
inquired parenthetically.

No, indeed, why should I? '

Why, indeed ? ' Vi assented cordially. ' If
it had been fair play and equal stakes, would I
have asked you to give up the game ? But as
I was going to say, don't you think, as he was
in earnest, that he isn't quite one of the men
who can be fooled with impunity ? '

No,' Eosemary said with a sigh. ' That's
what makes it such a sacrifice ! There is deep
down in him, an element of something that
might turn dangerous. That was just what
made it interesting. He was a study to me,
and I never knew quite what to make of him.
He was a riddle, and there was a delicious
sense of playing with fire in solving it ! '

You might have burnt your fingers — *

I'd run the risk ! I like edge tools. It's
so tame fencing with the buttons on ! Now
with Max it would have been exciting, because
the foils would have been sharp ! and there
would have been the chance of a stab.'

Metaphorically, I hope ? '

Oh yes, metaphorically, of course,' Rosemary
assented, but not very positively.
Though, if things went very far with a
man of his kind, you can never be quite
sure how they'll turn out ! He did look as
if he wouldn't at all have minded pitching
poor me over the parapet to-night, if there
had been no witnesses about ! '

Thank Heaven ! ' Yiolet murmured with
hearty sincerity, ' you've let him go ! '

Fm not thankful ! ' retorted Eosemary.
I've yielded my own pleasure for you, Vi —
but I must make wry faces over the surrender,'
she continued frankly, but not disagreeably.

I'm thankful for two then Violet replied
as frankly — ' thankful for all three, indeed.
Make as many wry faces as you like, Eose,
so long as — as — '

As I don't call him back ? ' Eosemary
filled up the pause. ' No, Vi, you shall have
your wish, child ! I'll give him up : and if I
do a thing, I do it thoroughly ! '

She heaved another quite involuntary sigh ;
which was not needed to convince Violet of
what she knew full well — how strong was the
testimony Eosemary had given to the depth of
her friendship, how hard it had been to her to
resolve to surrender, by her own word and of
her own accord, the conquest of a nature she
could so thoroughly and triumphantly have
played the devil with !

It is a sacrifice,' Violet said, sighing too.
I wish — I wish I could do something for

you

I

Well, you will, my child, if ever I want
it — I don't doubt that.'

No, I hope you dont doubt me,' replied
Violet earnestly. ' Eose,' she added confidentially,
after a few minutes' thoughtful
silence, ' do you think he will come tomorrow
? '

I don't know,' said Eosemary, slowly and
thoughtfully too. ' //" he does — if he has not
taken to-night as a final farewell, why then, tomorrow
will be the tug of war ! '

Vi looked at her with grave, asking, searching
eyes, and a troubled look came over her
face.

We are not out of the wood yet,' she said
with a touch of anxiety.

No, and we want to get out without any
scenes of explanation ! '

< Yes — yes,' Violet agreed eagerly.

Eosemary meditated a minute or two. and

then said, a shade more softly and seriously
than she generally spoke of man or men —

I wonder what he thinks of me ? '

'Most likely just about the same as he
would have thought later on, ^vhen the time
came for you to put an end to it. For you
would have made an end of it sooner or
later, wouldn't you? You wouldn't have
married him ? '

Violet waited the answer anxiously.

No,' the answer came with reassuring
emphasis. ' I certainly would not have married
him ! And I don't envy the woman who
does, for I believe he has a satanic streak in
his temper ! And really, Yi, I might have
spared myself this trouble now, for sooner or
later I should have said good-bye to him, and
you might have come in for him all the same —
a little damaged, perhaps ! heart a little the
worse for wear ! but, if you really think so

VOL. II. p

miicli of him, you wouldn't have minded catching
him in the rebound — doing comforter —
ministering angel, and so on. But there, Vi !
I won't change my mind. I've promised you
and I'll keep my word.'

'Eosemary,' said Violet presently, with a
half-timid but earnest appeal, laying her hand
on her friend's, 'you don't think, do you, that
lie ' she hesitated.

-VVell— that he—? What ? '

That he — has any idea — that I ' — the faint
colour in her cheek deepened to a glowing
blush.

No,' Eosemary assured her frankly. ' You
can be quite easy, Vi. I don't think he has
the slightest suspicion of it ! '

The two friends, perfectly united in confidence
once more, had now cast aside all
reserve. The frost that for a day or two had
crept between them melted away in the steady

warmth and light of their mutual faith and
trust. The gulf that had threatened to yawn
wider and set them far apart on opposite
shores had closed. Love without trust might
have failed to bridge it, but the faith of each
in the other's loyalty was a bond that held fast
and firm.

On the Monday, the last day of Max
Randolph's stay in the neighbourhood, they
waited together in mutual anxiety, in the mood
conjectural and apprehensive, for a sign from
him. They watched for his boat crossing the
lake, for his figure coming up the grove path,
for his head above the seedling orange-bushes
by the fence.

A certain nervous feeling of suspense and
misgiving on this last day possessed them both,
and they confided it freely one to the other.

I wish this day was over,' said Eosemary.

I wish we knew whether he would comer

'2

or not,' sighed Violet. ' If he sends a note and
asks you to meet him, Eose, what shall you do? '

Wait till he does send a note, and then I'll
think of my answer ; ' and her tone betrayed
that Eosemary was — what was a very rare
condition with her — irresolute and uneasy.

They were both depressed by a foreboding
sense that they were by no means out of the
wood yet — a fear that they might not get out
of it so easily as they had thought. For if
Max Randolph came to-day, it would be goodbye
indeed ; and if he had set his mind on
having another parting interview with Rosemary,
it might well be that his will would be
strong enough to force its way. And farewell
scenes are apt to be dangerously tender — their
compelled coldness to break into sudden
warmth, their reserve into unexpected confidence.
Violet had no fear of Eosemary s
betrayal of her secret, but she could not completely

crush out, although she struggled
against and effectually suppressed all sign of,
an apprehension lest Eosemary might be
tempted to palter with her promise. Perhaps
in her secret heart Eosemary feared that too ;
perhaps there might have lurked deep down in
her heart an uneasy consciousness of the risk
of edge tools, a doubt as to whether she might
have kindled in play a fire she might find it
difficult to extinguish in earnest. For it must
be remembered that Eosemary was fully used
to the exercise and effects of her own power of
charming, and by no means under-estimated its
extent.

Violet also had a certain sense of misgiving,
although on widely different grounds, as she
reflected that

It's an awkward thing to play with souls,
And matter enough to save one s own ;
Yet think of my friend, and the burning coals
He played with for bits of stone ! '

Certainly she would have felt deep and
bitter regret that she had ever put her delicate
hand between bark and tree — between Rosemary
and her property and prey — had it not
been for the countervailing force of gladness
that she had been able to avert from Max
Randolph a bitterer mortification and disappointment
than he could feel in Eosemary's
defection now so early in the day. It must
have come, and the later it came the deeper
would have been the bitterness, the harder the
blow.

But still the hope of having stepped between
him and sorrow was shadowed by the
fear that it was already too late — that this last
day he might insist on some farewell interview,
the result of which might be to undo all the
work which had been done. Or, more dangerous
still, this might turn out not to be the
last day after all. What if he did not go to

the Gulf Coast ? Man's resolution has ere now
been found to prove as wax under woman's
influence. If he should seek, urge, possibly
even force a farewell interview with Eosemary,
and this last temptation should turn out to be
too much for Eosemary 's new-born spirit of
self-sacrifice to withstand, small doubt then
that her power, if she yielded to the natural
instinct of allowing it free play, would chain
him here. For even if the spark had as yet
not quickened into flame, one touch would be
enough to fan it to a blaze — one drop of oil
and it would leap into uncontrollable fire. So,
at least, Violet was firmly persuaded, and lie
sincerely and longingly joined Eosemary in the
wish that the day was over.

The afternoon wore on, and there was still
no sign from Max Randolph.

Come, we must brace ourselves up for the
ordeal,' said Eosemary as they made their

simple toilet for the evening meal. * Let us
look our best. Here, Vi, this will do nicely in
your plaits ; ' and with her deft and dainty
lingers she pinned a spray of the sweet
southern yellow jasmine gracefully in Violet's
dark hair. ' And now which of these two
cigarettes do you think suits me best ? '

She tried them both with earnest attention
before the mirror, and Violet with equal interest
watched the process, and gave her vote for the
Valenciennes fichu.

I feel rather as if we were two lambs
being dressed in garlands for the sacrifice,' she
observed as she helped to pin on the delicate
lace.

Eosemary laughed a little grimly.

So do I,' she agreed. ' I don't relish the
situation, Vi, at all ; but wt'vc got to go
through the evening, however it turns out.
Of course one might have a headache, or a

toothache, and keep one's room ; but I hate
sneaking out of things. This evening is the
tug of war, and we must face it, though it isn't
over-comfortable for either of us. I want to
look my very best to-night,' she added, inspecting
herself carefully in the glass and
arranging a stray tress of hair.'

And you do,' exclaimed Violet, sincerely
appreciative, and uneasily sure that Max could
not fail to agree with her : for Eosemary at
her best was a flower no more likely to blush
unseen and waste her sweetness than the fairest
blossom at the rose show.

Come now ; we're both ready for the fray,'
said Eosemary.

Eight about, march ! Come on, Macduff,
otherwise Max.'

But the ordeal, so anxiously waited, turned
out like many of those contingencies in readiness
for which we have our line of conduct

mapped out and prepared beforehand — that is
to say, it never came to pass at all ! Either
Eosemary's conquest was not so complete after
all as she had thought, — or else Max Randolph's
pride was stronger than his love.

However it might be, the hours passed and
no shadow of his darkened the piazza ; and the
evening waned and closed, and he did not
come. Yet not until the next day and even
the next had passed without a sign did Violet
feel securely certain that he was really • gone
without a word.' Indeed, neither she nor
Eosemary were thoroughly assured that they
were safe out of the wood until Mr. Wentworth
brought home the authentic report of Mr.
Randolph's arrival at Tampa, the chief town of
the Gulf Coast.

And Violet rejoiced in her heart that he
was gone indeed — was far away, and free and
safe from Eosemary's toils — felt even for herself

a sense of relief and peace now he was off
the scene of their daily life.

Now the ordeal was over she felt the air
freer to breathe ; she could hold up her head
and face her little world frankly, without a
blush or a mask, or a consciousness of undercurrents
and backgrounds. And between her
and Eosemary there lingered no shadow of
constraint or reserve. Sever had they been
more truly united in heart than now.

Yet Eosemary, while loyal to her promise,
still half regretted her lost plaything — the toy
she had wanted so much to break up and see
what it was made of. And Violet, realising
fully how Eosemary had held that conquest
dear — how much Eosemary had given up for
her — rejoiced the more, and reiterated to herself
that it was indeed best for all. Live
human hearts have turned out dangerous playthings
sometimes ; and Eosemary might well

have cut or burnt lier own cool white fingers
in the hazardous game she had played so often,
but never played with one quite like Max Randolph
yet. He would not be as Eosemary's
other victims had been. He would not weep
like poor young Peyton, nor write sonnets
descriptive of his despair, as Tom Philpott had
done, and had comforted his anguish ' marvellous
much ' in the writing.

Violet was aware that she had only known
the shallows and surface of his nature ; but she
was equally well aware by unerring instinct
(roman's surest guide, unless worldly training
has blinded and stifled or even slain it outright)
that there were depths there which
neither she nor even Eosemary had ever
sounded.

She thought even more pityingly and sympathetically
than she had done before of Mark
Bridges, who took to drinking and went to the

dogs, and whose friends all said the poor
fellow's ruin was Eosemary's work. She
thought how often the light touch of a woman's
dainty hand mars and warps a man's whole
life, and turns its course all awry, and she was
glad Max Randolph had escaped the siren's lure.

She comforted herself also in regard to her
own weakness of heart by assuring herself that
there must be something about him which set
him apart from all the other men she knew,
something which even Eosemary recognised.
For what was it — neither of them could explain,
but something there was — that exacted
even from Eosemary a certain almost reluctant
respect, regard, and interest.

More than once she betrayed a touch of
concern for his possible opinion of her which
she had never shown with regard to the opinions
of others. As a rule, she took a delight in
defying opinion.

But speaking of Max Randolph, she said,
What does he think of me, I wonder ? I don't
want him to think very badly of me.'

He cannot think so badly of you now ashe
worm have thought later on,' replied Violet
comfortingly. ' The longer the affair had gone
on, the worse it would have been for him and
for you.'

CHAPTER XXII.

ox AND OFF ' TOM TIDDLER's Ground ! '

The disturber of the peace having departed,
tranquillity reigned once more at West Grove
House. To all appearance, indeed, the peace
had never been ruffled ; only two of the inmates
knowing that the clear atmosphere had
been troubled for a day. But now Max
Randolph was gone, the current of life ran
smooth and serene for all again. Violet missed
him, certainly ; but even from the first she
felt' that it was sweet to be at peace, to lookout
on the sunny lake without wondering
whether that streak over by the farther shore
was his boat, to sit amongst the social company
on the piazza without watching for his step

his voice ; to be content with such companionship
as she found ready to her hand, without
the old constant recurrent glance aside to see
if he were near.

And day by day this sense of rest and
relief, and peace, grew in her heart, till she
found she could be well satisfied with the
present, so long as the absent incas absent.
She and Eosemary were happy and united ;
and Eosemary appeared to find some compensation
for the loss of Max in the cultivation
of Treg-elva.

So the last of the winter days, if those
were winter days that looked and felt like a
mild and genial spring, melted into the true
spring, a balmy southern spring which glowed
warm as a golden summer. Like beaded
pearls slipping off a string, the swift and shining
days rolled by in a fair, dream like monotony.
The wild flowers were coming out in

many-tinted bloom in grove and garden, peeping
through the underbrush of the pine-woods,
and nesting amongst the bushes on the low
shores of the lakes. Out on the cool and
limpid water, the pond-lilies opened one by
one their wide cups of alabaster white or
golden yellow. On the orange-trees the delicate
waxen buds unfolded into snowy blossom,
and loaded the air with their rich bridal
odours. The groves were at their zenith of
beauty, with bud, blossom, and fruit all growing
side by side, one tree still weighed down
beneath the burthen of its red-gold globes,
while its next neighbour had opened into full
flower, and looked like a huge bridal bouquet.
The whip-poor-will began to sing his one
monotonous little trisyllable tune every evening
at sunset ; and the mocking-bird filled the
gardens with his changeful music — now merry
as the brown thrush's pipe, now pure and clear

VOL. II. Q

as the lark's, anon piercingly, passionately sweet
as the nightingale's song.

The eastern breeze bore warm and fresh
and fragrant airs in from the Gulf Stream,
the genial and gracious current that enfolds
Florida in its soft embrace. To the transplanted
Britons it seemed at first impossible that
this mild caressing breath could be the east
wind — this the biting, piercing, dreaded wind
of England, which slays its hundreds every
winter, and seems to shriek and whistle in
cruel jubilant over its own evil deeds ! Was
it, indeed, the east wind that fanned their
cheeks as tenderly as a kiss ? For from no
point of the compass blows so sweet a breeze,
alike balmy and bracing, gentle and refreshing,
as the east wind in Florida, which seems to
bear a blessing in from the Gulf Stream with
its

Odour of spices, and baltu, and bay !

The two English girls reposed themselves
luxuriously on the now thornless rose-leaves of
their dolce far niente life. They had nothing
to do ; and in these azure and golden mornings
and torrid noons and mellow evenings,
warm with sunshine gone away,' they did not
want anything to do, probably woidd not have
done it if they had had it ; they wanted nothing
but to day-dream amongst the bridal
fragrance of orange-trees, and drift on the
translucent lakes, and bask in the cool green
woodland shades sheltered from the fiery
shafts of sunshine, and revel in the soft dewy
night-breeze and the pure starlight and the
glowing mellow moonlight of the South.

And only a little distance from their Arcadian
retreat the hard struggle of frontier life
went on, and men toiled in the torrid sun-glare,
hewed the tree and dug the ground, as
the work of clearing the South Florida woods,

q2

which only a few years ago were untouched
wilderness, went vigorously on.

And as the spring ripened, Mr. Wentworth's
household brigade perceived that it was really
getting time to think seriously of their plans
and prospects.

Some, seeing the tropical summer approaching
and the mild winter left behind — and feeling
as well as seeing that the advance guard of the
mosquito army were arriving, though not yet
in battalions — began to talk of going home, of
the London ' season,' of there being ' nothing
to do ' out here ; others, with a fresh start of
energy as they realised that the question faced
them now, to go or stay, made up their minds
to take hold of Florida life in earnest.

The first to go was young Eobinson, who
had been the last to come. Full of fresh
enthusiasm, and determined not to let the grass
grow under his feet, eager to begin gathering

the gold of Tom Tiddler's Ground, and primed
with wondrous tales of fortunes made in a year
or two, he was prompt to purchase his land
and set to work on it. Whilst he remained
at West Grove House he attached himself to
Tregelva, and followed him about in a faithful
Newfoundland kind of way — attributable,
perhaps, partly to a measure of careless kindness
which Tregelva, m his nonchalant good-humour,
extended to Charley Eobinson as well
as to the dogs and horses, but chiefly to the
high respect in which Master Charley had been
brought up to hold the Tregelva family. For
it appeared that this young man had spent
a great part of his life with relatives in Cornwall,
and in their neighbourhood the Tregelvas
of Tregelva were the big people of the place,
and he was well pleased to make the acquaintance
of, and indeed be thrown into intimate
relations with, Tom Tregelva, the son and

heir of the great family, who in young Robinson's
eyes were very big people indeed,
Tregelva graciously accepted the unsophisticated
homage offered as much to his lineage
as to himself, and even derived a little mild
gratification therefrom. It put him in a good
humour with himself and his, while Rosemary's
appreciation of Tregelva was unquestionably
just a little increased by the evidence
of young Eobinson's high estimate of the
importance of the family.

The second to go was Dick Christie, who
set off in sanguine spirits in his own cherished
Macy wagon, laden with his mostly homemade
goods and chattels, to his own land.
All the West Grove household missed his
handsome good-natured face, his boyish high
spirits, his boisterous laugh and fund of amusing
anecdotes.

Then Spencer started in life on a larger

scale ; he was fortunate enough to be able to
invest in a seedling grove, with a couple of
negroes to work upon it.

And Harrington, after surveying every lot
of land that Mr. Wentworth had on his books,
and taking all the winter to make up his mind,
finally made it up to the effect that Florida
life as a settler on his own grove would not
suit him permanently, however pleasant it
might be as a mere winter resort. He also
came to the conclusion that the young lady
who was nearest and dearest to him would not
relish South Florida domesticity. And he
packed up his trunks and went home to be
married. Happy Harrington ! More than one
pair of eyes followed him enviously as he set
his face for home and love.

So, as one by one the members of the West
Grove brotherhood passed either away into the
wilderness or back to their island home, the

little band grew ' small by degrees and beautifully
less.'

Chadwick, poor boy, was getting hard-up ;
his remittances were behindhand; he could
barely manage to pay his board ; his prospects
of buying even ' wild land ' waxed faint and
dim, and the Whitworths began to wonder
what in the world they should do with him
if he were left upon their hands, as his only
capacities for earning his living were fishing,
shooting, and stuffing birds. He was one of
those misguided young men who go out to
Florida with the idea that all they have to dois
to sit under an orange-tree and see the fruit
grow, and sell it at a handsome profit. In the
shadow of your own vine and fig-tree, is a
very pretty ideal position ; but in reality you
have to dig and hoe, plant and prune, toil
hard at your orchard for long seasons before
you gather the fruit ; and labouring in the

fierce summer heat of your semi-tropical
paradise is stern, tough work. And Chadwick,
although his family's attentions in the
form of remittances grew slacker and slacker,
showed no sign of inclination to put his hand
to the plough.

As to Conyers, his people were apparently
tired out, exhausted either in patience or in
purse, for he got no remittances at all ; and
although Conyers was less confidential and
communicative than his Fidus Achates Tree
— whose affairs all who ran mif][ht read —
still there was a sort of freemasonry of mutual
understanding in the fraternity, by virtue of
which they were all aware of Conyers' plight ;
and also that Tre^elva. himself findinf]^ the
exchequer running dry, was unable to help
his friend. A heavier, sulkier, look than of
old now brooded over Conyers' handsome
statuesque face ; Harrington's departure for

home to claim his bride, Harrington's happy
prospects, made his own lot seem the harder
by contrast ; and albeit not generally of a communicative
disposition, he one day, when they
happened to be alone on the piazza, confided his
troubles to Violet. Sooner or later everyone
who lived under the same roof with her always
did confide in Violet. She was the depositary
even of the grievances of Pinkie, the aspirations
of Beverley the young mulatto waiter, the trials
of old, black, monkey-faced Lorenzo.

Conyers now set forth his hard case to her.
As everyone at West Grove House had surmised,
by divers signs and tokens, he was
engaged to marry the object of his affections as
soon as his prospects permitted. But, as he
observed moodily, it was ' a black look-out I
I can't have her out here unless I can get a
comfortable place for her ; and I can't go home
and marry her without any money.'

He might have added that until his people
sent him. out a cheque he could not go home
at all ; he was a fixture in pledge at West
Grove House. It did not appear to occur to
him to try and find work to do to earn the
needed cash. Violet sympathised kindly with
his troubles ; and presently as he waxed more
and more confidential, and even seemed to find
it some little comfort to talk over his woes to her,
she took advantage of opportunities of gliding
in delicate hints of the advisability of seeking
some employment — mending fences if he could
not get anything better to do ; but her well-meant
words in season fell on stony ground
and bore no fruit. Conyers, tall, athletic,
broad-shouldered and strong, * did not see
what he could do.' Like Chad wick, his views
of a gentleman's occupations were confined to
rowing, shooting, fishing, and picking up gold
on Tom Tiddler's Ground.

Tregelva was of the same mind. He talked
of going home ; but the days passed on and he
did not go. Still he lounged on the piazza and
smoked, and sometimes studied the advertisements
of homeward-bound steamers and talked
of sailing on this one or that one, but lingered
on in the sunny South.

Staples now showed fitful signs of turning
over a new leaf. He varied his chronic indolence
by acute spurts of energy, in which he
went grove-hunting vigorously, put down the
prices of lots and land in a notebook, in which
also he dotted down calculations which he
proudly regarded as original and elaborate —
calculations about interest and capital, investments
and returns — and figured out the profits
to be reasonably expected from the outlay of
his money — when he got it ; but at present the
mails came and went without brinojinfr him
any. He even learnt to handle a spade and a

pitchfork, asked Mr. Whit worth to teach him
the practical process of ' budding ' trees, took
a hand in the work of orange-picking and
packing, and really made himself very useful.


Tregelva looked on at the process of improvement
as shown in Staples with lazy
amusement, but without a stir of emulation.

'Now, Mr. Tregelva,' said Eosemary one
day, ' what would you do if you got the grove
you have been talking of getting all the winter,
that grove which you never will get ? ' she
added laughingly.

Tregelva's reply came as promptly and
decidedly as was consistent with his habitual
languor. ' I — er — should sei ni<Zi][ers to work
for me.'

And oversee them from a hammock or a
rocking-chair ? Much work your niggers would
do!'

I don't imagine that I shall have the chance
of trying my hand at nigger-driving,' he said.
I don't think the life out here would do forme
in the long run.'

No ! There's only one kind of life that
would ever suit you,' she replied — ' an Eng-
Sh country-gentleman's life ; big house and
grounds ; lots of servants ; dogs ; horses ; carriages
; billiards ; smoking-room ; men down
to hunt and shoot in the season.'

You're right, by George ! ' he agreed, with
more animation than usual ; ' that is the only
life for me ! '

Why didn't you stick to it, then ? ' she
asked. ' The description of your home in
Cornwall sounds just the place to suit you.
Why did you leave it and become a wanderer
on the face of the earth ? '

Well, you see,' he replied leisurely, ' the
first thing I ever had a fancy for I was

thwarted in. I wanted to go into a cavalry
regiment. My governor didn't see it. He
offered me a commission in the hne. I wasn't
going into the Hne. And since then I've tried
a good many things, but I've never been able
to find anything to suit me.'

What a pity your father did not get you
a cavalry commission ! ' she observed sympathetically.


Well, I must say it wasn't altogether the
old governor's fault. It was chiefly consideration
of the expense. I couldn't have economised
in a crack cavalry regiment, you know,
and money was tight with the governor just
then. It generally is, indeed. That's why he
won't buy me that big grove down at Nary
He's put all he could afford, and a
good deal more, into a mine. I hate mines. I
lost a pot of money once in a mine myself.
This mine of the governor's is called the

"Juliet" — I'm sick of the name of it. If it
wasn't for that, I'd have had that grove '

Bought it in haste, and repented it at
leisure,' said Eosemary ; 'Oh, how you would
have hated it by next season ! tied up there all
alone.'

I don't see why I should stay there " all
alone'' ' he demurred. ' I suppose I might get
some cracker girl to marry me and share my
solitude.'

And cook your dinners, and wash your
clothes, and scrub the floors.'

I don't think I should let my wife scrub
floors he said meditatively.

In this delightful country,' she rejoined,
the probability is that either she or you would
have to scrub them, or they'd go scrubbed.'

The servants would do the scrubbing,' he
observed.

Yes, if you could get any servants —

help," as they call them out here. But help
isn't easy to get in the lonely parts of Florida,
or anywhere in Florida, indeed. I know plenty
of people who can't get servants, and those
they do get are so much trouble to watch and
teach and look after, they give one more
trouble than doing the work one's self. At
my beautiful home. Pine Eidge, we get a girl
when we can ; but half the time we can't.
The last we had took my stepmother's lace
shawl to go out in on Sunday.'

You don't like Florida, do you. Miss
Heath ? '

I hate it ! ' she replied, with refreshing
and whole-souled warmth. ' I haven't minded
the winter here ; indeed I have rather enjoyed
it,' she added sweetly. ' We have been a nice
companionable party.'

Yes,' he agreed ; ' the time's passed pleasantly
enough. It would have been a different

VOL. II. R

kind of thing if you — and Miss Preston — hadn't
been here.'

Much pleasant still,' she suggested.

Not exactly,' he replied, looking down at his
meerschaum instead of into her face. * But even
with companionable society,' he added, 'you
wouldn't care to settle out here, would you ? '

No, most assuredly I shouldn't.'

I can't make out,' he observed, ' how
fellows can want to drag a girl into a kind of
life she doesn't like. The place where she
lives, and all that, is so important to a woman.'

As a rule, she isn't dragged by the hair
of her head,' replied Eosemary ; 'she is pulled
by moral forces.'

If she falls in love with a fellow — yes,' he
agreed.

And also sometimes when she doesn't fall
in love,' said Eosemary. ' There are other
forces that pull; and society highly approves
their exercise.'

That woman can't be in the wrong box

Who sees her husband's image in his strong-box ! '

she quoted smilingly.

That's one consolation,' he remarked, ' for
fellows who haven't got a strong-box, or at
least have got nothing to keep in it. At least
they can be sure they're liked for themselves —
if they're ever lucky enough to be liked.'

They often find it unlucky to be liked too
much,' she rejoined, ' like the poor young man
in " Patience," you know. I always pity him,
with the "twenty lovesick maidens" round him.'

I could do with less than twenty,' he said
meditatively, knocking the ashes out of his
pipe. ' I could do with one, if she was the
right one.'

Tregelva had more than once of late introduced
into the conversation similar touches of
personal sentiment, which, however, he handled
gingerly and hastily, as if it would burn his

B 2

fingers ; and Eosemary was not too well-pleased
when, at this interesting and promising stage of
their discourse, Staples appeared on the scene,
in a graceful neglige of shirt-sleeves, mopping
his brow with a large pocket-handkerchief, and
bearing a spade and a saw.

Been working hard, my boy ? ' said Tree
graciously and patronisingly. ' You're
fast becoming a reformed character ! What
do you expect is to be the reward of virtue ? '

Staples answered with unsmiling literality —

If I have to stay out here I shall be able
to do my own work. But all the reward IVe
got to-day is a splitting headache from the sun

Staples was, indeed, the only industrious
one of the four who were now ' all that was
left of the once goodly band of the West
Grove brotherhood ; and even his industry was
spasmodic and jerky, his reform broken by
relapses.

Bnt the others, if unable or unwilling to
turn their hands to work, even now that the
exchequer was running low with them all,
were not above turning an honest penny ina
manner that cost them no trouble. Old
Lorenzo appeared one day in a fine broadcloth
coat of irreproachable cut, the only fault
to be found with which was that it had evidently
been made for a more athletic figure.

Why, Lorenzo,' observed Violet kindly,
you have got a beautiful new coat ! '

Is, missis,' replied the old negro, with a
broad smile that spread from ear to ear,
Mas'r Conyers' coat, made in Lon on — I give
him ten dollars dis very morning' for it. My
coat now I ' and the whites of his eyes rolled
as he surveyed the garment complacently.

The rest of the brotherhood soon took a
leaf out of Conyers' book, it appeared ; for the
next Sunday, when Violet happened to be in

the kitchen holding a little friendly conversation
with Pinkie, old Lorenzo came in bearing
a large sack stuffed full of something.

What have you got there, Lorenzo ? *
Violet asked.

Clo's, missis.'

Clothes ? What for ? For the laundry ? '

No, missis — not fo' de laundry. Dey's
clo's to sell.*

'Let me see if you have any tempting
bargains, Lorenzo.'

No — don' do no trade on de Lord's Day,
missis. Tes' going' to put 'em here fo' to-day,
and speculate on 'em tomorrow,' and he
deposited his sack beneath the dresser.

But you'll let me see to-day what material
you have for speculation ? Come, let me look !
It's no trade, you know, just to sJiow the things.'

Lorenzo yielded to this reasoning, and
began untying the mouth of his sack.

Dere ain't no ladies fixing's here, missis,' he
observed, pulling out first a pair of light-grey
trousers, which he shook out and held up
appreciatively. ' Dem's Tregelva's pants —
dey's worth tel' dollars. Dis is Chad wick's
coat — a good coat. Dat's Conyers' wes'co't,
and des is Chadwick's boots. Dey all come
all de way from London. Des shirts is Staples'
an' so's dis wes'co't — and dere's Tregelva's
slippers. But dere ain' muffin fo' ladies.'

'No,' Violet agreed. 'I see there isn't.'

Perhaps missis or Missis Eose might ahab
muffin to trade ? ' suggested Lorenzo, anxious to
drive as brisk a business as possible. ' Dere's
Marcellus lookin' fo' a Sunday gown fo' his ole
'oman, and Beverley 'ud like to buy some
fixing's fo' his gal. If you's tired o' dat blue
gown o' yo's, missis, dere's Marcellus 'ud gi'
you a good price fort.'

But Violet declined this tempting offer. She

did not wish to part with her brie gown,
and had no surprise articles of wardrobe to
trade.

The next day Lorenzo received a small and
select party of coloured brethren in the stable,
and held a sale by auction. Violet and Rosemary,
passing by — perhaps not wholly by accident
— during the progress of the sale, peeped
in at the open door, their expressions of amusement
tempered down to polite interest, and
smiled sweetly upon old Lorenzo holding up
Staples's waistcoat to a hesitating bidder, a
spruce young mulatto trying on Chadwick's
coat, and a tall negro who exactly fulfilled
the requirements their ideal of ' Uncle Tom' —
good-humoured, beaming, benevolent, black
as coal, and shining like polished ebony —
rolling white eyes and flashing snowy teeth, ashe
bent his woolly head in delighted inspection
of Tregelva's slippers, which were of a fine.

bold, and gorgeous colouring — just the thing
to please the African eye.

I don't wonder he wants to get rid of
them,' Eosemary remarked. ' What I do
wonder is, who worked them for him ? '

You had better ask him,' suggested Violet
; and Eosemary took an early opportunity
of so doing.

Why, Miss Heath,' he answered languidly,
do you think I can't have a pair of slippers
without some girl having worked them forme?'


I only wondered,' Eosemary rejoined as
languidly, and with an air of royal indifference,
whether I was mistaken in having given you
credit for better taste.'

How do you know it wasn't good taste? '
he replied, misunderstanding. ' Oughtn't it
have been a pretty girl and a nice girl who
did them?'

Tell me about her,' said Eosemary, with
an air of tender sympathy; 'I should like to
know the sort of girl you would think nice ? '

Would you ? ' he replied, smiling a little,
and pulling his fair mustache in a way he had
when he was doubtful about anything.

Yes — so much. Let me guess what she
would be like. Dark, of course — fair men
always like dark women.'

Dark eyes, yes,' he agreed, looking straight
before him. ' I like dark eyes in a woman.'

■

'And is the girl who worked the slippers a
brunette, then ? ' she asked seriously — ' the girl
you left behind you ? Poor girl ! I wouldn't
have sold her slippers if I were you ! '

There isn't any girl I left behind me. Miss
Heath,' he protested, with the nearest approach
to irritation she had ever seen in him. ' And
you know quite well there isn't. I'm not that
sort of fellow. I never used to care for

women's society, and at home I never put
my foot in the drawing-room if I could help
it. But if there was a girl, I'm sorry you
should think I'd part with anything she gave
me or made for me.'

Do you keep all your love-tokens, then ? '
she inquired. ' I know your Saratoga trunk
is a very big one.'

It wouldn't hold them all,' he replied,
taking up her lightness of tone, and falling
back into his usual nonchalance. ' They are
stored away at my banker's.'

Tied up in neat packets and docketed,
each with the name, or, to be more discreet,
with the initials That's what I do with
mine. I am very tidy and methodical.'

I should like to see the collection,' he
observed. 'The outside of it, I mean, of
course.'

'You wouldn't like to contribute to it.^'

she asked with her audacious coquetry, which
all women, and all men on whom she had not
practised it, reprobated severely.

No,* he replied promptly and decidedly,
I certainly wouldn't.'

Thank you,' she said demurely, but with
a moment's gleam of battle in the admired
dark eyes.

'I always thought fellows were fools to
write what they call love-letters ] and they're
worse fools still when a girl's got a lot of
others.'

She is all the better critic,' Eosemary
laughed. 'From experience and comparison,
she knows what to admire. How can you
expect your epistolary style to be appreciated
by bread-and-butter girls in the nursery ? '

If one wanted one's letters to be criticised
and treated like works of art one had better
publish them at once. Ah, Miss Preston,' he

added as Violet stepped out on the piazza and
broke upon the tete-astute, ' you have come intime
to preserve the peace. Miss Heath and
I were having a Httle difference of opinion.'

The little difference of opinion, however,
far from creating any estrangement, seemed
to bring about a reactionary rapprochement.
Eosemary, satisfied at finding herself able to
stir, if ever so slightly, Tregelva's normal
nonchalant indifference, made amends for her
teasing that evening by her sweetest glances,
her softest smiles. Eosemary 's softness was
the more bewitching on account of its rarity ;
and Tregelva was all the more susceptible toit
because, as he had truly said, he had never
cared for women's society nor sought the
atmosphere of the boudoir and salon, always
feeling himself more at home with men and
dogs and horses, to whom he need take no
trouble to make himself agreeable. But, somehow,

he began now to find all the hours very-long
that he spent without Eosemary — and,
truth to say, they were not many. Indolent ashe
was, for her he found it no trouble to drive
the buggy, to row the boat, or scramble into
the thicket to get her flowers ; although perhaps
he did not yet quite realise himself how much
Eosemary 's society had become to him, or
what West Grove Hfe would have been without
her.

And Eosemary seemed to find in Tregelva
comfort, if not ample compensation, for the
loss of Max Randolph ; while of Violet the
same may be said in regard to Staples. She
found in him the most satisfactory kind of
diversion from a dominant idea — that mild
distraction which amuses without absorbing
and interests without thrilling. She honestly
liked Staples, and appreciated the good qualities
which lay beneath his somewhat unpromising

exterior. She also liked the feeling that
her influence was an important factor in the
improvement which was to everyone perceptible
in him.

There was a certain sympathy between
these two, outwardly so opposite in taste and
temperament, yet not in reality so widely different
as they seemed on the surface. Violet
felt quite as much at home with him as if he
had been her brother; while there was that
faint, sweet, indescribable and unmistakable
aroma of romance in their companionship
which there must always be in even the most
simple and friendly of intercourse between
man and woman, until they have left the
stage of romance behind — which does not
happen nearly so early in life as is popularly
supposed.

So life was pleasant and peaceful to Violet
now, and she enjoyed the gradually lengthening

days, in the very monotony of which she
found a charm — the mornings, that seemed
made up of light and colour, dew and sunshine,
odour of orange-flowers and song of
mocking-birds ; the burning shadeless noons ;
the evenings, when the gold and azure radiance
of the day deepened into diviner and more
mysterious hues ; the nights, which stole the
warmth and colour from sky and grove and
forest and lake, yet shed over all a hallowing
passionless splendour of their own.

And Violet's heart rested in the dreamlike
peace of the season and the place, save when
the thought of Max Randolph came like a
cloud across the smiling sky — a little cloud,
but enfolding potentialities of storm.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Sjwttiswoode Sf Co. Printers, New-street Square, London.

%^^

-=A.^'^

>^.Jif-

l»««Jf'^

4*^v

r>^.: zv

-Bi^'i^i %■

■'^m

■'W:t

J?^

^MX!

»':sfM

"n,„T;r;"„r zt: '.^~"

she University ""'' '""" '" dl.mi ol »,«„

I. renew coll Telephone. Center, 333.3400

SEP 3

mo

MM

Ll61~O-1096

THE STORY OF A WINTER IN FLORIDA

BY

IZA DUFFUS HARDY

AUTHOR OP ' Hearts OR DIAMONDS ? ' ' THE LOVE THAT HE PASSED BY '
'ORANGES AND ALLIGATORS' ETC.

■ Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell :
It fell upon a little western flower,—
Before milk-white, now purple with Love's wound —
And maidens call it Love-in-idleness I '

A Midsummer Night's Dream

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

F. V. WHITE & CO.
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.



SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQtJABB

LONDON

CONTENTS

OP

THE Tried VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

XXIII. 'There was Something the Season

Wanted ' 1

XXIV. ' We are in Love's Land To-day ! ' . . "25
XXV. 'Mais Otr Sont les Neiges d'Antan?' . 53

XXVI. Blotted Oct 83

XXVII. One Too Many 110

XXVIII. ' Hurt WITH Jar AND Fret ' . . . . 140

XXIX. 'Our Three Days' Love lies Slain' . 159

XXX. No! 177

XXXI. Hand to Hand 207

XXXII. Heart to Heart 226

XXXIII. Soul to Soul 249

XXXIV. Land in Sight ! 262

CHAPTER XXIII.

THERE WAS SOMETHING THE SEASON WANTED.'

It is often now decided to be too warm for
driving, in the dust and heat of the day, w^hcn
the loose deep sand lies bleaching and burning
in the sun, and wheels and hoofs toss it up in
blinding clouds, and the welcome breeze — if
there is any — helps to blow it into the drivers'
eyes, to pepper and powder their faces. But
it is never too warm for rowing — at least not
for Rosemary and Violet, who repose as comfortably
as may be in bow or stern while
VOL. III. B

their escorts — usually Staples and Tregelva —
pull at the oars.

Sometimes the quartette divide into pairs ;
and on these occasions at least one out of
the four is all the happier for the division, as
Staples has not learnt to relish the position of
target for the shafts of Eosemary's satire, and
she still inclines to make him her butt when
she is in the mood for teasing. One day these
four start on an expedition up Connor's Creek
a long, winding, narrow stream which connects
the great Lake Eosalie with a neighbouring
lake. The passage of this creek, being a
matter of some difficulty, is not often made.

The first difficulty is to find and get into it
at all, its mouth being so narrow that, when
they shove their boat in, it seems as if they
were running ashore right into the heart of the
hammock. But as the little boat pushes in,
it seems that a way opens before them into

the woods — a channel which sometimes widens
into a broad pool, sometimes narrows till there
is barely room for the boat to glide between
the banks.

The second difficulty is the current, which
Hows against them and strives to bear them
back ; the third is the struggle with the low-growing
branches and briars which reach and
interlace across the stream. But, in spite of
all obstacles, the enterprising little party push
on. Staples and Tregelva putting all their
energies into vigorous punting against the current,
as the stream runs too strongly, and is
too tortuous, narrow, and shallow, to admit of
rowing.

Through the thickets of cypress and oak
and cedar, palmetto and gum-tree and pine,
the dense jungle, which seems to grow ever
thicker and wilder as they advance, they fight
their way up the winding creek, which curls

u2

and twists in and out through the woods, and
seems to tie itself into knots for the mere
pleasure of straightening itself out again.
Blossoming vines trail from tree to tree and
tangle all together in one luxuriant wilderness.
Here and there on the stately magnolia-trees
the great white buds are swelling, and almost
ready to burst into bloom. Tall purple flags
and curious flowering rushes fringe the level
banks ; every turn and twist of the creek
reveals new beauties in the varying tones and
semitones, the whole chromatic scale of green —
tender bud and last year's leaf ; the fresh and
delicate hues of the sapling pines, contrasting
with the darker, richer hues of their elder
forest brethren ; the flecks and shafts of golden
light glancing among the gleaming leaves ; the
deep inlets of shadow in the recesses of the
hammock ; while on the silvery white cypresses
and the gnarled boughs of the evergreen oak

the grey Spanish moss hangs in abundant
wintry-looking wreaths.

Bat our quartette have little leisure for
appreciation of the beautiful during their
battle with the overhanging branches, which
threaten not only their head-gear but their
heads ; the vines, which reach out and strive
to entangle them in a too-affectionate embrace ;
the aggressive briars, which grow — apparently
of malice prepense —-just at the right height to
scratch their faces, as they push on between
the wooded banks, which every now and then
appear to close on them and shut them in, till
the vigorous stroke of the pole sends the boat
shooting round a sharp angle into a fresh curve
of the narrow tortuous stream.

The young men, engrossed in their double
struggle with the low-growing boughs and the
swift strong current, have but little breath to
expend in speech. What little they have they

think fit to devote to invocations of Jove ;
while the girls are fully occupied in shielding
their faces from the briars.

Eosemary, always apt of quotation, breaks
out in a snatch of song, being a slightly
altered version of the ' Dismal Swamp ' —

Away to the Dismal Swamp we speed,
Our path is rugged and sore ;
Thro' tangled j juniper, beds of weeds,
Thro' many a fen where the 'gabor feeds,
And boat never poled before.'

And, by George, I don't think we'll ever
pole it again I ' exclaims Tregelva as a branch
knocks his hat off into the stream. He makes
a lunge at it with an oar, and nearly overbalances
himself, recovering his equilibrium
with an ignominiously ungraceful struggle,
which all but capsized the boat. Staples,
taking warning by his friend's mishap, crushes
his hat firmly down over his nose, but does
not thereby escape his own turn of humiliation

; for before many minutes have passed,
just as he gives the boat a violent impetus with
his propelling pole, a large strong branch takes
him unawares, and lays him prostrate and
grovelling in the bottom of the boat.

Oh what a fall was there ! ' exclaims Rosemary,
rather maliciously amused than sympathetic
; but the quotation ends in a little
shriek, as her hat is torn off and left suspended
on a briar, which clings to it so tenaciously
that the hat is only rescued with the loss of
a ribbon, left fluttering behind it on the
branch.

Violet takes off her hat and bestows it carefully
in the bottom of the boat.

'It would be well if we could put our
heads there,' says Eosemary ruefully, lifting up
her hands to her tumbled locks. ' You'll be
scalped, Yi, without your hat.'

This will keep my hair on,' Violet replies,.

taking out a handkerchief and tying it round
her head.

Woukl it come off? ' Staples inquires with
sincere interest.

Of course it would ! ' says Eosemary.
Don't you know it's only put on with
pins ? '

You will soon have ocular demonstration
of the fact,' laughs Violet, ' for my hairpins are
all coming out ! '

And, indeed, the thorny boughs have
effected havoc in the ordinarily sleek coils of
her smooth dark hair.

Presently, much to their relief, the creek
broadens, and thus gives them a little rest and
breathing-time, as they can keep the middle of
the channel and steer clear of the obnoxious
briars. The stream, serpentine still, opens
out in cool calm inlets all carpeted with lilies,
then becomes a chain of pools winding a shining

way through the close rich shadows of the
wilderness of hammock and swamp.

These pools are like water-gardens, with
royal purple flags growing out in the shallows,
and yellow lilies floating like cups of gold
amongst their broad, flat, plate-like leaves,
while here and there patches of white water-lilies
unfold their snowy blossoms wide.

Eosemary leans over the side and stretches
out her hand to pull the lilies from their tough,
smooth, snake-like stems, and pushes back her
sleeve as the fresh cool ripples run and splash
up her wrist.

Her hands are sunburnt, for even cloves
by day and cold cream by night fail to entirely
protect them from the tropical sun. They are
not disfigured, only a trifled mellowed and
deepened in tint, like the hands of a brunette
instead of a blonde.

But the brunette hue stops like a bracelet

at the wrist : the fair arm above is unmanned
white — warm white against the cold pure snow
of the hies she holds.

Tregelva's eye notes the beauty of that
rounded arm as the gleaming drops fallen from
the lilies run over its polished ivory.

Violet plucks one lily and then relents.

They look so lovely growing,' she says,
it seems a shame to pick them ; it would spoil
the creek if all the hUes were plucked.'

We can indulge ourselves with a few
without any danger of spoiling the creek for
the next-comers,' observes Eosemary, reaching
for another flower.

A bittern, long-necked and long-beaked,
sits on a branch, looks down unalarmed and
curious as the boat approaches.

I'm glad Chadwick isn't with us,' remarks
Staples. ' He'd never be happy till he'd shot
every bird ! He wants to kill a whip-poor-will ! '

Worse than that, he says he is going to
shoot a mocking-bird,' acids Tregelva.

Too bad ! ' exclaims Violet warmly. ' It
ought to be forbidden by the law. There's a
rice-bird ! What a beauty ! ' she says admiringly
as it sways near her on a branch and the
sun catches the fire-red gleams beneath its fluttering
wings.

Pretty thing ! I should like to have it ina
cage for a pet.'

I call that as cruel as killing it,' said
Eosemary.

Why ? ' inquired Staples, resenting this
aspersion on Violet. ' She'd feed it and be
kind to it.'

And do you think you'd be happy in a
cage if she fed you and were kind to you ? '
retorted Eosemary.

I shouldn't like the cage-but I should
like the feeding well enough.'

What a gourmand ! ' observes Violet, looking
up at him with a lovely friendly smile.

If you don't look out we shall be into
those bushes,' interposes Tregelva.

A little further on they come to a great
tree which has fallen across the creek in such a
way as to offer the most formidable obstacle
that has beset their passage yet. The huge
trunk lies like a bridge straight across the
stream, about a foot or so above the surface —
too low for them to pass under it, while too
high for any skiff larger than a child's toy to be
hauled over it. The little party look at each
other discomfited, but not hopeless, as they
ask each other what is to be done ? Are they
to give up their intent of penetrating to the
very end of Connor's Creek and reaching the
lake out of which it flows ? Perish the thought !

Eosemary expresses only the general feel
ing when she exclaims :

We won't give in ! Over it, or under it,
or round it, we've got to get, somehow ! '

Could we drag the boat ashore and haul
it round the end of the tree ? ' suggests Violet.

Can't do that,' replies Tregelva. ' There's
no solid land to give us foothold anywhere
here : it's all morass and swamp. But see here :
I think if we were all to get out and sit on the
trunk we might manage to push the boat vv;ell
down in the water and shove it under somehow
! '

This plan meets with general approval.
Tregelva, standing up in the bow of the boat,
holds it firmly against the fallen tree with
one hand, while with the other he assists
first Eosemary, and then Violet, to get out
and seat themselves upon this rustic natural
bridge.

Next, he himself follows ; and then it is
the turn of Staples, who has the most difficult

task to achieve, as lie has to hold the boat as
well as to climb on to the trunk, which lies as
straight and level across the creek as if it
had been placed there of intent as a bridge.
Staples is not remarkable for skill and grace
in gymnastic feats ; and, while scrambling in a
plantigrade manner on to the trunk, ' one
foot on tree and one in boat ! ' lie gives an
unlucky kick with the foot that rests on the
edge of the boat. The boat slips from his
foot, and in a moment, before he can catch at
it, it is a yard away, and goes serenely drifting
on the current farther and farther from the
bridge, whereon the dismayed party are seated
in a row, with their feet dangling above the
stream.

Oh, Mr. Staples ! how could you let it
slip ? ' exclaims Eosemary in indignant reproach.


There is a go ! ' observes Tregelva, more

lazily amused than dismayed, and unable to
help chucking softly at his friend's discomfiture.


What are we going to do now ? ' asks
Violet.

'We certainly can't sit here all day,'
remarks Tregelva.

Like four love-birds, all of a row, on our
perch,' says Eosemary.

'You needn't waste your anxiety,' replies
Staples, looking as sulky as is his wont when
annoyed. ' If I let the boat go I can get it
back,' and he begins deliberately to divest
himself of his boots and his light summer
coat, observing that ' it's too deep for wading
here.'

Yes, my dear boy ; I'm afraid the only
thing to be done is to swim after it,' says
Tregelva blandly. ' Think you can manage it
by yourself ? '

Can you really get it ? ' asks Violet
anxiously.

'Easily enough,' he replies, a shade more
amiably. ' I'll bring it back all right

Don't jump in with a flop, please ! ' entreats
Eosemary. ' Let yourself down gently,
so as not to splash us ! '

Mr. Staples obliges her, and lowers himself
into the creek as gently as possible, and begins
lo swim after the boat, which is gracefully and
swiftly gliding down stream a-head of him.

All right, Leander ! ' Tregelva called out
after him encouragingly. ' J^o alligators here ! '

Will he be able to catch it ? ' said Violet.

He'll get it at the corner,' Tregelva replied,
indicating a curve a little way doAvn the
creek. ' Those bushes will check its wild career.'

'There may not be alligators,' exclaimed
Rosemary, suddenly lifting the hand which she
had been leaning on the trunk. ' But there

are worse ! Why, this tree's a nest of stinging
ants ! Look at them ! '

Worse for us,' said Violet ; ' but I think
Mr. Staples would rather it was ants than
alligators.'

Nevertheless Violet surveyed the portion of
the tree on which she was seated with, first,
suspicion, and then dismay, as she perceived
the army of lively ants in full movement.

Lucky they're not hornets ! ' remarked
Tregelva ; ' if they were, we should have to
swim for it too. Bravo, old boy ! ' he added
as Staples came up with the boat, which was
swaying gently on the little eddies at the curve
of the stream, where the bushes had intercepted
its course. Staples waded into the
shallow water that he might more easily
clamber over the side, and then began to pull
the boat back to the waiting trio of love-birds
on their trunk. He looked a forlorn figure in

VOL. III. c

his wet, dripping garments, and the girls both
smiled — the one sympathetically and compassionately,
the other coolly and amused — as he
stood up dismal and drenched, and brought the
boat to its moorage.

Let us get away from these horrid ants,'
exclaimed Eosemary petulantly, preparing to
step down into the boat.

Please hold it steady ! '

I suppose this puts a stopper on our getting
up to the next lake ? ' observed Tregelva
doubtfully.

Certainly,' Violet answered eagerly ; ' the
sooner Mr. Staples gets into dry clothes the
better ! He will have to be in his wet things
long enough, and too long, in the getting
home.'

Never mind about me,' said Staples. ' A
half hour or so more or less won't matter a
bit to me. My things '11 dry in the sun.'

No, no,' said Violet. ' You'll be getting
malaria, or chills, or something ! '

Violet's opposition to the pursuit of their
enterprise to its end carried the day, although
Eosemary cast a longing glance up the un-penetrating
windings of the creek, which meandered
its way out of sight, curled like a
gleaming chain round a bold curve, and was
lost in the wilderness of hammock and swamp,
wherein, if it would be too much to aver that
'man never trod before,' yet, certainly, man
at least had left no sign nor token of his
presence in the pathless morass and tangled
thicket.

I am afraid that Mr. Staples did not much
enjoy the homeward row, in spite of Violet's
kind looks of sympathy and friendly words.
To take frequent turns at the by no means
light work of punting a heavy-laden boat
down a difficult and well-nigh unnavigable

c 2

stream, in which you have just been disporting
yourself fish-ike, with soaked and sticky garments
in process of being dried on you by the
sun, and seeming to turn to hie as they dry,
is not one of life's most agreeable experiences ;
nor is the consciousness of being presented in
an awkward and unbecoming aspect to the eyes
of the lady you most admire at all calculated
to improve the situation.

Staples had fortunately his dry coat and
boots ready, on landing, for the walk home ;
but even so, it was a longer walk than he
relished, for Lake Eosalie was the furthest of
the five neighbouring lakes from West Grove
House. Violet, who hated walking in the sun
at all, unselfishly walked on at her quickest
pace with him, whilst the other pair followed
at their leisure.

Miss Preston seemed very kindly anxious
lest Staples should catch cold,' observed Tree

looking at the foremost couple hurrying
on ahead.

Violet always is anxious lest anything
uncomfortable should happen to anybody.'

'You two appreciate each other,' he rejoined.
' I never saw two girls so fond of each
other before ! I like to see it — although —
it '

'Although it what?'

'It sometimes makes a fellow feel rather
like — what's his name? ' replied Tregelva lucidly.

Ah, what is his name ? ' laughed Rosemary.


'Fellow who was always thirsty and
couldn't get anything to drink — Tantalus ! '

Yes, that is the gentleman's name ? ' she
said approvingly. ' The only interpretation I
can place upon your classic simile,' she continued
with sweet seriousness, ' is one highly
flattering to myself and friend ! '

Well,' he admitted, ' you two have made
the winter here quite a — a different thing to
what it would have been without you.'

We have not lived in vain ! ' she observed,
with a dramatic air of exalted triumph.

You are always up to fun,' he said. ' I
wonder whether Miss Preston chaffs Staples as
you chaff me ? '

That is presuming that the cases are
entirely parallel she remarked with demure
audacity.

Are they, I wonder ? ' he questioned,
glancing at her a little searchingly and doubtfully.


We had better ask them,' was her prompt
reply.

They seem to get on very well together,'
he rejoined.

Yes ; no sounds of battle reach our
ears ! '

I wonder are you ever serious, Miss
Heath ? ' he observed.

Sometimes — with people I like or dislike
very much.'

I should like to see you in earnest some
day — ;must for once,' he continued rather stum-singly.


It will be easy enough. Pick a quarrel
with me ; offend me ; make an enemy of me !
I can be an enemy in right good earnest 1 '
she replied laughingly, but a spark which
flashed for a moment in her dark eye gave
eloquent sign that she spoke no more than
the truth.

But I don't want you for an enemy, Miss
Heath,' he said. ' It's just the last thing
I want ! '

They had reached the house by this time,
and Conyers and Chadwick, who were reclining
in reposeful attitudes on the piazza, too

tired with doing nothing to sit up, had nevertheless
just energy enough to hail them with
amused interest.

I say, tell us wdiat Staples has been up to ?
Have you pitched him out of the boat ? or did
he jump overboard, or what ? '

CHAPTEE XXIV.

'WE ARE IN love's LAND TO-DAY ! '

The stillness of a sultry day, the serenity of a
warm, dull, hazy sky, are breaking up as the
sunset hour draws near. The sun is sinking
down towards the western horizon in a sea of
lurid clouds ; a little breeze is rising and murmuring
amongst the pine-trees. In a narrow cosy
nook of a creek on Lake Eosahe — the great
lake, with its bold sweeping shore lines and
fair green islands, which abounds in such shady
creeks and winding inlets — a boat is drawn
up ; and in the boat are sitting — or rather, I
should say, are lounging — two young people,
Mr. Archibald St. Julian Staples and Miss

Violet Preston, both apparently very happy,
and certainly very much at their ease.

Three sides of their cosy creek are dense
thicket of palmetto scrub, fringed with tall
flowering flags and rushes growing at the
water's edge, behind and above which tower
the slim stately pine-trees.

The fourth or lakev/ard side is screened
from the open water by three (cypresses rising
from the shallows, their far-reaching roots
slanting and spreading out from the trunks to
drink up as much as possible of the life-giving
liquid without which they would pine and die.

All the winter these bare white-branched
trees have stood like skeleton sentinels guarding
the evergreen forest, clothed only with the
mournful-looking grey draperies of Spanish
moss that fell like funeral veils about their 
limbs ; but now on every branch
the tender spring buds are swelling and

bursting into lovely leaf, peeping in glints of
fresh and vivid green through the long clinging
wreaths of moss that are grizzled and hoary
like an old man's hair.

Mr. Staples has been reclining, in a pose
more remarkable for ease than grace, looking
like a bundle of angles, in the stern of the boat ;
while Violet, in a soft grey dress, reposed in an
attitude alike comfortable and picturesque, on
a crimson shawl spread in the bow. Lately,
however, it has occurred to Archibald St. Julian
that he would like her to read him some
poetry. This is a fancy which has possessed
him several times of recent days, although Violet
is not yet quite sure whether what he appreciates
is the poetry itself or her rendering of it.
Wherever Violet is, there is generally a volume
of some one or another of our modern poets
not far off. To-day she has a book of selections
Rossetti's ' American Poems ' — in her lap.

True, they are not all modern poems, but she
chiefly chooses out the more modern ones for
her own reading and for the poetical education
of Mr. Staples. The better to enjoy his initiation
into American literature, he has scrambled
over the seats interposing between them, and
is stretched in the bottom of the boat at her
feet, in a manner more than ever suggestive of
a Newfoundland dog. Violet has selected for
their reading to-day Joaquin Miller's 'Arizona.'
She reads well, and does justice to that most
powerful of all his poems, which stands without
peer in its own style, in its tropical and half-barbaric
splendour of colour and passion, its
wild and rugged force rushing like a mountain
torrent.

Staples listens with creditable gravity and
attention ; but his appreciation of it has to
be taken on trust, as he entirely ignores its
characteristics as a poem, all the comment he

makes being with regard to the narrative,
receiving it simply as a story related in
rhyme.

My word, he was in a bad way, wasn't
he ! ' he observes, with serious commiseration
for the unhappy hero. ' But if he went away
for twenty years and didn't write to the girl, he
couldn't reasonably have expected her to wait
for him. And I don't see how he could have
taken up with a dark girl. Can't understand a
fellow's taking a fancy to a nigger, if there
wasn't another woman in the world.'

She was not a nigger ! ' Violet protests
warmly. 'How can you make such absurd
mistakes ? '

'Well, he says she was a "beautiful
bronze " and goes on about her " brown
face," ' Staples replies mulishly. ' / couldn't
like a darker girl — not if she was ever so
handsome ! '

Violet endeavours to impress upon him the

difference between the aboriginal American

and the African races ; but the only result is

his stout declaration that a Red Indian squaw's

as bad as a nigger. Staples will be an

eminently satisfactory member of whatsoever

political party he may in the future elect to

join, he is so refreshingly thorough in his

views ! Absorbed in their conversation, these

young people both forget the flight of time,

nor do they notice the gathering clouds and

darkening sky, until two or three heavy drops

splash down through the leafy canopy over

their heads.

Dear me ! ' observes Violet, looking up
placidly, ' I believe it is raining.'

They have but a broken and limited view
of the sky from the sheltering shades of their
aquatic bower ; but these sudden raindrops
draw their attention to the fact that all the sky

which they can see through the network of
crossing branches and drooping moss is becoming
overcast. Swiftly, even as they lookout
and remark on the rain, and wonder if
there is going to be a storm, a heavy murky
yellowish haze creeps like a veil between
heaven and earth, and seems to weigh down
the air.

'By George, we're in for a storm I'm
afraid,' he remarks.

Shall we wait here in shelter till it's over,
or had we better get home as quickly as we
can ? ' asks Violet, not much disturbed, and
marking the place in her book with a little
bunch of water-grass.

'Well, if we cere in shelter here, I'd say
wait." But this,' casting a glance upwards at
the interlacing boughs high above them, 'would
be no much protection against a tropical rain.
It looks as if it meant to come down pretty

heavily too. I think perhaps we'd better begetting
home.'

All right, then ; let us start. I balance
the boat better in the stern, don't I ? ' she
suggests, making her way to the stern seat.

I think so. Anyhow, it's more sociable
having you there than sitting with my back
turned to you.'

He picks up the oars, and pushes the
boat out between the sentinel cypresses — out of
their sheltering creek.

By George, it's blowing up ! ' he remarks
as they float clear of the trees, on to the open
water.

It is blowing up, indeed; the great lake,
calm as a pond when they rowed out to their
creek in the early afternoon, is rising into waves
like the sea, as these large lakes are wont to do.
Staples sets his course for home ; they have a
good three quarters of an hour's row before

them, even if he pulls his very best ; and in a
very few minutes it becomes evident to them
both that in such waters as these he cannot pull
his best. The waves, rising higher and higher,
roll full broadside on the little boat and rock it
like a cradle to and fro. The big drops of rain
come pattering thick and fast ; the cedar and
cypress boughs rustle and mutter ; the long
hoary banners of moss, which lately drooped
so limp and still, stream out and fly wildly on
the wind, and seem to struggle to tear themselves
free.

'Better not try to keep straight on our
course with the waves taking us broadside like
this,' he says ; ' I'll tack, and try to make way
crosswise,' and he pulls the boat's head round
accordingly and rows across the long waves,
so that the boat leaps and rides up and down
over them, but does not rock in so alarming a
fashion as before.

VOL. III. D

Don't like this much, eh, Miss Preston, do
you ? ' he observes, in a tone that would be
sympathetic if he allowed it to be so, but, as he
carefully keeps the curb on his expression, is
only brusque.

Oh, I don't mind,' she replies, with more
amiability and well-meaning encouragement
than strict veracity. Presently a deep sullen
growl of thunder rolls threateningly over land
and water ; and suddenly, as if that muttered
roar aroused the demons of the elements, a
blinding storm of wind and rain sweeps over
the lake and lashes the already angry waves
into foam and fury. The moan of the storm-beaten
trees rises to a wail. The rain pelts like
a volley of shot on the little boat ; the wild
wind seems to seize and shake it in a savage
grasp ; the waves, risen to billows, toss and
beat it about like cork.

Violet, turning pale, and steadying herself

in her seat, clutches the sides of the rocking
and rolling boat; and Staples, realising the
imminent danger of an upset, sees, and can
only just see through the blinding torrent of
slanting rain, that they are close to one of the
little islands which are picturesquely dotted
about in the middle of the lake. The current
runs so strongly that it takes all his strength
to head the boat on to the island and run her
ashore. He manages to do it, but the boat is
half full of water as it dashes in among the
scrub and grates on the bank. He jumps up
and hauls the boat up into a safe position, and
then helps Violet out.

I thought this was about the best thing
to do. That's a tittupy little cockleshell to
weather a storm,' he says.

'I thought it would turn right over,' she
replies, sincerely relieved at getting out of
it.

D 2

Well, I wasn't at all sure that it wouldn't ;
that was why I ran aground.'

Their island does not offer much scope for
exploration. It consists of a long low mound
of scrub, two pine-trees, one scrubby-looking
young oak, a thick clump of tall bushes, and
three or four cypresses standing out in the
water.

We can get a little bit of shelter here,'
says Staples, installing himself and Violet in the
most protected spot, between the pine-trees and
the oak, in the lee of the thicket of tangled
bush. 'It's about the best position we can
get. And bad's the best, he adds, truly
enough.

A flash of lightning plays through the
murky sky, and another muttered growl of
thunder rolls nearer than before.

Isn't it dangerous to stand under the trees ? '
asks Violet, looking up at him appealingly.

Staples does not at all relish the storm and
the wetting ; but he does relish being appealed
to in that trusting way by Violet — relishes exceedingly
her simple and natural recognition
of his position as the stronger, the protector.
It is the first time that ever any tone or look
of hers has conveyed that pleasant suggestion
of the old simile of the oak and the vine as
being in the least degree applicable to him
and herself.

We've either got to wait here till the
storm's over, or face it on the lake,' he replies.
There's the danger of lightning here, and of
an upset there.'

Cheerfully and practically put ! ' she observes.


I think, on the whole, we're safest here,'
he continues. 'That little boat's risky until
the sea goes down a bit.'

It is like a sea indeed ! ' she agrees,

looking with concealed dismay on the white-capped
waves.

I They are standing close together, keeping-well
back in the scant shelter of the trees,
whose branches afford but frail protection
against the torrents of rain above and around,
which break through and beat them down.
Already Violet's hat is drenched, her pretty
grey dress limp and discoloured with big rain-spots
and splashes.

'You'll get very wet,' he observes solicitously.


I think we are both rather wet already,'
she answers, smiling ; ' nearly as wet as you
were when you had to swim after the boat in
Connor's Creek ! '

Presently there was a deafening crash and
roar, as if the walls of heaven were blown to
pieces and fell rattling down to crush the earth,
and a great lurid blaze wrapt all the landscape

in blinding light, as an inky black storm-cloud
broke over their very heads.

Violet started with a low cry of terror,
drowned in the reverberating roar, and made
an impulsive step as if to rush from the
dangerous shelter of the trees, then shrank
back again, and with the same instinct of
fellowship which makes the sheep cower together
in a storm, she drew closer to her
companion, and involuntarily, unconsciously,
put out her hand to hhii. Thereupon he, not
unnaturally, threw his arm round her, as if
that arm could shield her from the danger.

Don't be frightened, darling ! ' he said
impulsively, holding her fast in a tender protecting
embrace.

Are you so afraid of the lightning here ? *
he continued as he felt her tremble. 'We'll
do just what you like ! If you'd rather risk
it in the boat, / don't care. It's all the same

to me. I'd about as soon be drowned with
you as live without you ! One can die but
once, and there's no better way to die than
saving a woman one cares about — but then,
you see,' he added with his accustomed practicality,
' I'm afraid I couldn't save you if that
boat capsized in such rough water far out from
shore ! '

His declaration of affection was entirely
unpremeditated. It had rushed headlong from
his lips on the impulse of the moment's passion,
without his conscious consent ; he was himself
almost as much startled by his own outburst
as was the object of it. Partly because she was
so thoroughly taken by surprise, and partly
because she was exceedingly terrified by the
nearness of the storm, she received his declaration
in the safest manner possible, — that is, she
answered nothing at all in reference to it.

'It W9S very silly of me to be so startled,'

she said, gently disengaging herself from his
arm. 'A thunderstorm always makes me
nervous.'

He stood quite silent for a minute or two,
and then said in his boyishly abrupt way —

I didn't mean to tell you I cared for you.
I suppose I've no business to care for any
woman — at least, not to tell her so — an unlucky
devil like me ! '

His self-depreciation touched Violet's softheart,
which was, in truth, very easily reached,
though not very easily impressed beyond the
hour.

I think it is one of those trespasses' that
might be forgiven,' she said gently with a
little smile.

Yoic can forgive it, then ? ' he rejoined
quickly.

I don't see that I have anything to forgive.
You have been very kind and careful of me,*

she answered, prudently retreating into safer
lines.

It would be very likely I should be anything
else, wouldn't it ? ' he replied. ' I've
always — for ever so long — wished that I could
do something for you ! '

Well, I think you pulled that boat ashore
just in time to save me from a bath — if from
nothing worse ! I'm not sure, though,' she
added, with a judicious shunting of the conversation
into a less personal line, 'that it
hasn't been " out of the frying-pan into the
fire"'

I meant for the best,' he said, interpreting
her light Words as a reproach. ' I'm sorry
if you think I've dragged you into danger ! '

'No, no; indeed I didn't mean that. I've
no doubt we are better here than out on the
lake. I '

Her explanation was cut short by another

deafening explosion of thunder that burst
and rattled like a cannonade right over their
heads, while simultaneously the sky seemed
set ablaze.

She tried to control her natural nervous
start and tremor this time, but did not succeed
very well, when she saw, on the opposite shore,
a great pine-tree scathed and stripped by the
lightning, which for a second wrapt it in a
dazzling serpent of flame. The tree still stood,
but no longer erect ; it swayed, leant on its
fellows, and one great branch quivered and fell
with a crash, like a living thing stricken.

Oh, it is very near ! ' she exclaimed involuntarily.
Her voice trembled a little ; and
Staples deemed the support of his arm again
necessary.

Never mind ! ' he said, with a clumsy
attempt at comforting cheerfulness. 'If it's
struck there, it's the less likely to strike here !

Poor little girl ! ' he added more softly, ' you're
wet through ! Your dress is soaking ! ' laying
his hand on her dripping sleeve, which, indeed,
could not well have been wetter if it had just
been dipped in the lake.

You are as wet as I am,' she replied.

Yes, but my coat's thicker than your
dress, and it doesn't matter so much about me.
But you're shivering. Lean against me ; don't
mind ! I'll be distant and formal again tomorrow
! '

She did not reject the offered aid ; she was
very wet and cold, tired and nervous ; and
there was something comforting and protecting
in the firm close clasp and support of his
arm.

So they stood under the dripping trees,
seeking such poor pretence of shelter as they
could find there, while round them the wind
raged and the tropical rain poured, and their

soaked garments clung to their limbs, and every
now and then the thunder rolled and crashed
through the lowering sky, which seemed to
open and reveal the heavens ablaze for one
dazzling moment, then darkened as if a heavy
curtain closed again.

Violet had no idea how the time went, but
it seemed to her an hour that they stood there,
drenched and shivering. Surely never had
time so lagged and crawled ! As for Staples,
he did not know whether it lagged or flew ; he
took no count of time at all. All his consciousness
was absorbed in realising that the storm
bore its compensations with it. In no hour of
sunshine would Violet have cowered so close to
his side, and allowed his arm to clasp her, so
unresisting, and even willingly. She found
some comfort in his tender and protecting care,
although it was perfectly unavailing for any
practical purpose ; he could neither keep her

dry nor act as lightning-conductor. But she was
growing very tired of standing ; her wet clothes
sticking like gie made her feel stiff and numb ;
she was afraid she might ignominiously weaken
and droop on his shoulder, which she had no
intention of allowing herself to do.

We cannot get any wetter than we are
now,' she suggested. 'May we not just as well
sit down in the boat as stand here ? '

To be sure,' he agreed, reluctantly unfolding
his protective arm from her waist, ' if
you like. I suppose you really are about as wet
as you can be ? '

Yes. I think, except for the chance of
drowning, we might as well be swimming in
the lake,' she said, with a faint smile.

'Well, I must bale the water out of the
boat first,' he said, and went down to the shore
to accomplish this purpose. The boat was
nearly full of water, so he found it better

simply to tip it up on one side than to attempt
the slow process of bang. He managed to
turn it right over on the bank and let the
water pour out, and then reversed it. Oat of
breath with his exertions, he looked up to call
to Violet, and found she was already beside him.

There,' he said, panting, but triumphant,
now you can sit down. I'm sure you're
awfully tired.'

Just tired enough to think that a wet seat
is better than none,' she agreed, gladly getting
into the safely grounded boat. ' What a pair
of drowned rats we do look ! ' she added, looking
up at him laughingly ; and although Staples
was not a beauty at the best of times, and
the rain-drops rolling down his long nose and
sleek wet locks of lank hair sticking to his
forehead were exceedingly unbecoming, her eyes
had never yet rested on him with so soft,
friendly, and appreciative a look.

/

He sat down as near to her as he could.

Poor Httle girl ! ' he said sympathetically ;
you're so cold, and so wet, and so tired ! and
there isn't a dry spot for you anywhere.'

Never mind,' she replied cheerfully ; ' weare
doing about the best thing we can do ! '

Staples was evidently in the mood compassionate.


Poor little cold hand ! ' he said next, touching
and clasping it ; then, as the slender cold
fingers slid gently out of his, he added, ' Mayn't
I hold it, then ? And mayn't I — talk to you ?
I — I've said so much — I feel I — I must say
more.'

No, no,' she broke in hastily, ' please,
don't ! '

You mean that ? ' he rejoined, quickly
shutting himself up in his shell ; ' you'd really
rather I said no more ? '

Really,' she assured him with a little sigh

of relief, seeing how quick lie was to accept
and obey her bidding.

'Very well, then, I won't,' he promised.
And he kept his word.

As violent paroxysms are never enduring,
either in animate or inanimate nature (if there
is aught in nature that can be called inanimate),
the violence of the storm now soon
began to wear itself out. The wind, tired of
its own savage riots, subdued its ravings to
sobs and moans ; the rain, exhausted with its
fury, fell more and more weakly, until the big
drops came splashing softly down like tears ;
the boom of the thunder followed the lightning
instead of bursting simultaneously with
the flash, and the intervals between the crash
and the blaze became gradually longer. The
waves too, were calming down, although the
lake was still rough and would be rough for
hours to come, long after the world was

VOL. III. E

shrouded in the shadows of the night, which
was falling fast. But the water had smoothed
sufficiently for the soaked and shivering pair to
start on their homeward row ; and glad they
were to feel the boat leaping over the water,
as Staples, wet and weary, spent all his strength
upon his oars, and pulled with all his might ;
but Violet saw by his panting chest and
doggedly set features that he was exerting
himself almost to exhaustion.

'Don't pull so hard,' she said kindly and
anxiously ; ' you must be so tired ! Do take it
easily.'

'I'm not — so very — tired,' he replied, too
much out of breath to get through even so
short a sentence without breaks and pants.
Don't mind about me.'

'Do take a minute's rest,' she pleaded,
leaning forward and laying just the tips of her
fingers gently on his arm. In accordance with

her desire, he rested a few moments and drew
long deep breaths and pulled himself together.

That's better,' she said, smiling.

I'm all right,' he replied. ' You are very
kind,' he added, his eyes cleaving wistfully to
her pale fair face.

I ought to be,' she said gently ; ' you are
very good to me ! '

Good ? ' he repeated, ' thais not the word ;
one isn't good to one's — but you've told me to
say no more, and I obey your wishes — always.*

And Violet looked at him gratefully and
appreciatively, and liked him all the better for
his obedience — although it is possible she
might have forgiven him if he had disobeyed.
And they reached home all safe, and Mrs.
Wentworth threatened them with imminent
malaria if they did not follow her instructions,
and as her prescription comprised hot baths
and hot beverages pleasant to the palate, the

e2
LIBRARY

truants both bent amenable to her treatment ;
and, except that Violet had caught cold — an
ordinary cold, which, however, caused Staples
considerable anxiety, as he regarded it as a
possible forerunner of fever or consumption —
they neither of them were one penny the worse
for their adventure.

CHAPTER XXV.

MAIS OU SONT LES NEIGES d'aNTAN ? '

It was the time of roses! Climbing roses
straggled up to the house-tops, and buried the
walls and framed the windows in leaf and bud
and bloom ; great trees of roses towered up,
tall masses of white and creamy and crimson
flowers. The gardens were ablaze with all the
colours of the rainbow; the fragrant breezes
were heavy with the perfume of myriad blossoms.
The scarlet sorrel spread like a coral-coloured
carpet over field and grove ; the
stately oleander trees were covered with their
scented stars of pink and pearl ; the pomegranate
hung out its vivid scarlet bells; and

the great magnolia grancliflora, tall as the
poplar and sturdy as the oak, unfolded the
white cups of its mammoth flowers, whose rich
fragrance, almost too potent for some tastes,
loaded all the air around. Here and there in
the orange-groves the odorous snow of blossom
lingered still, while here and there again
the young oranges were already formed, and
looked like tiny green plums. The lakes were
dreams of beauty, and all the earth lay smiling
in the golden glory of the ripe Southern
spring.

By way of some little off-set to the charms
and delights of this matchless season, the
mosquitoes had come — ' come not in single
spies but in battalions ! ' Like tiny evil ghosts
they flitted on the piazzas at twilight ; soft and
low, their faint little sizz-izz-ing song pierced
the ' starry silences.' In the deep stillness of
the night that maddening melody ' murdered

the innocent sleep.' In the morning, when the
household party assembled at breakfast, they
made polite and kind inquiries about each
others' bites, and the social bottle of ammonia
was handed round. Whether on account of a
dainty and discriminating taste for the ' young
and tender,' or a disinclination for the acclimatised
residents, the mosquitoes let Mr. and
Mrs. Wentworth alone, and favoured the rest
of the party, in different degrees, with their
attention. Violet lamented a disfiguring bite
on her nose.

Never mind, Miss Preston,' said Tregelva
consolingly ; ' Staples has got one eye nearly
closed already ; he looks as if he'd been fighting
! Another bite or two, and he'll have both
eyes bunged up ! '

Do give me a little ammonia, Mr. Tree
pleaded Rosemary pathetically. 'My
finger is so swollen, I can't put on a thimble.'

'Well, don't mind that, Miss Heath,' he
replied ; ' you don't want to put on a thimble ! '

Heaven be praised ! ' she said devoutly, ' I
have no socks to darn nor buttons to put on.'

And I think if you had you wouldn't doit,'
he observed, smiling, and applying |^the
ammonia himself, with careful tenderness, to
the little bitten hand.

If you girls will stay out on the water
after sunset of course you'll get stung,' said
Mrs. Wentworth. ' There are no mosquitoes
in the house — at least only a stray one or
two,' she added as one whizzed and sang in
her ear.

Amongst other signs of the season, the
great spring exodus of the tourists had begun ;
the northward-bound trains and steamers were
crowded, and the hotels were closing one by
one. The Osceola shut up a few days earlier
than some of the smaller hotels ; and on the

last afternoon that it was open several people
from the neighbourhood dropped in for a
farewell visit to the hospitable establishment,
whose doors had stood open to them all
the season, wherein they had enjoyed many
pleasant hours. Amongst these visitors were
the West Grove House party. The Osceola
was emptying fast ; more than half its inmates
had already gone north, and the parlours and
piazzas looked deserted in comparison with
what they had been a few weeks ago, filled
with the lively crowd which the closing
season had broken up.

Mrs. Whit worth, Eosemary, and Violet sat
down in the parlour with the Elliott, an
Anglo-American family, a delicate mother and.
two plain daughters, with whom they had made
acquaintance during the winter, and who were
going north the next morning. Mr. Wentworth
and the young men moved off in the direction

of the smoking-room ; and presently, when the
Elliott girls went upstairs to finish their packing,
and Mrs. Wentworth and Mrs. Ellicott were
absorbed in conversation, chiefly about the
latter's ailments and the former's prescriptions
for them, Eosemary and Violet drifted apart to
the further end of the long parlour and sat
down by the open window and looked out
across the broad piazza to the gardens.

How empty the place looks ! ' observed
Eosemary. ' And tomorrow it will be deserted
! The season's over — it's all breaking
up ! I see Pine Eidge looming up before me
like a black wall ! '

I wish you could come north with me,
Eose,' said Violet.

What's the use of thinking of it ? I know
it can't be managed. Lucky — lucky you Vi !
going north — going home — going back to
London with your people ! '

But I hate to leave you, Eose. It seems
selfish to be going back home and leaving you
in your exile, when you love London even
better than I do, and would appreciate it more ! '

That's the way of the world. If you were
homesick, Vi, little chance you'd get of going
home ! Well, anyhow, my dear, we have had
a good winter together, and nothing good can
last ! We have had the season — now let it go !
You know Tregelva's going ? '

He has been going for the last month.'

He really is going now. It appears that
his mamma wants him back, and his governor
thinks that as he doesn't seem to be doing
anything much out here he may as well go
home.'

Wise governor ! ' observed Violet ; ' though,
after all, I should think it must come a good
deal cheaper to board and lodge him out at
West Grove than in London.'

'They want him to stay on the ancestral
acres, I think,' rejoined Eosemary. ' I suppose
Staples will soon be following in his wake — orin
yours Yi ! As to Conyers and Chadwick, I
look on them as goods left out here in pawn.'

Conyers has eaten up his coats,' remarked
Violet, ' and I believe he is beginning on his
boots!'

Staples began with boots, didn't he ? ' said
Eosemary, with a languidly amused smile.

Those memorable boots ' She stopped

suddenly, and the laugh seemed to freeze on
her lips. Into woman less given to starting or
changing colour than Eosemary, but now she
started almost violently, and her face turned
from fair to pale as if a sudden shadow had
fallen on it.

Eose, what's the matter ? Are you ill ? *
asked Violet, quickly and anxiously.

Tregelva and two strangers were coming

along the piazza outside, a little distance off,
and Eosemary's eyes were turned towards them.

That's very like — but no — it can't be ! '
she said, in a breathless undertone.

Like ? Why, who is it, darling ? ' asked
her friend, also in an undertone, glancing at
the lady and gentleman who were approaching
with Tregelva. Eosemary gazed at them
steadily, and rapidly regained her usual composure
of voice and countenance.

It startled me for a moment,' she said, ina
tone carefully controlled and calmed. ' It is
George Raymond or his ghost ! '

Violet flushed with sympathy. George
Raymond here ! the man whose summer pastime
had spoilt two lives — had caused the
death of one sister, and turned the sweetness
of the other's nature to bitterness, her faith to
ruthless mistrust of all men for one false one's
sake.

Although Violet knew so well, and had
known from the beginning, the story of George
Raymond, she had never happened to see him ;
and Eosemary's eyes had not rested on him
since that fatal season of Letice's death.

Is it ? Are you sure ? ' asked Violet, looking
more interested and excited than Eosemary,
who had perfectly commanded her expression
by this time.

'Yes — sure,' she replied very quietly, but
with a little betrayal of bitterness nevertheless.

The trio on the piazza were very near the
window now; the lady in the middle, and
Tregelva outside. Violet gazed with eager
curiosity on the gentleman nearest to the window
as they approached.

He was handsome, certainly — tall, dark,
aquiline-featured, rather stout, with a touch of
grey in the short, crisp, curling hair; but
Violet's first impression was a faint sense of

surprise and disappointment. She had fancied
that the man who had won all the love that it
seemed Eosemary had ever had to give, had
set such a mark on her young life, must have
been something different from other men!
And this was just a handsome 
Englishman, of no very uncommon type.
She had seen men of his style often enough
before. Certainly, as he drew near she took
note that he had very fine expressive eyes,
and a sweet if somewhat subtle smile. But
still she had expected to find in Eosemary's
faithless lover a more striking, distinguished,
rarer type.

He and Tregelva and the lady were all
chatting like old acquaintances. By the time
they came up to the window Eosemary and
Violet had drawn slightly back ; and the trio,
absorbed in their chit-chat, passed without
glancing into the parlour, or noticing the two

girls screened and half-hidden behind the lace
curtains. As they passed, George Raymond
was lauo^hincr at some remark of Tre^^^elva's.

DO O

Rosemary set her teeth a little as that laugh
fell on her ears.

As she followed, with her eyes, the tall,
stalwart figure, so well remembered and once
so dear, there was in her expression a faint,
faint trace of the same sort of wonder and —
was it perplexity, or even disappointment ? —
with which Violet had looked on him for
the first time ; the sense of unreality which
sometimes comes upon us at the sudden
sight of a face once familiar and beloved, and
long unseen ; there is something strange, surprising,
startling in the recognition ; it is the
same old face, yet not the same. "We ask ourselves
— Is that face changed ? or are we ?

He and Tregelva know each other,' she
observed.

What shall we do, Eose ? ' Violet appealed
to her.

Do ? ' she echoed, lifting her fair head
haughtily. ' Walk out on that piazza ! I am
not afraid of meeting any mortal man. It is
not /' — she bit her lip resentfully as she felt it
quiver a little — ' not I who should mind.'

She cast a vexed glance at Mrs. Whit-worth
and the other matron, sociably comfortable
in their armchairs on the other side of
the parlour.

Hope Aunt Em won't be glaring, or looking
aghast, or making a fuss. I can't drop a
word in her ear now, she's so absorbed with
Mrs. Ellicott.'

She reflected a minute, and then added
resolutely :

Come along, Vi ; come with me ; we're
going to walk on that piazza.' And out onto
the piazza they went accordingly. Violet

VOL. iir, p

regarded Eoseraary with admiration and
affectionate pride. Her face was calm as a
waxen mask now ; a tinge of delicate colour,
faint as the hue of the inner petals of a white
blush-rose, warmed the usual ivory paleness
of her cheek ; the only betraying trace of feeling
on her part was the momentary flickering
and fading of that delicate bloom as she came
face to face with George Raymond on the
piazza.

Tregelva smiled as the two fair women, in
their pretty summer dresses, drew near ; and
promptly, although in a languid and perfunctory
Away, as if he had just energy enough
for the formula and no more, introduced his
friends Mr. and Mrs. George Raymond to
Miss Heath and Miss Preston. Mr. Raymond
was too much a man of the world to change
countenance, and probably had left too many
old loves scattered along his path for a sudden

chance meeting with any one of them to be a
cause of much embarrassment to him ; but a
very slight and almost imperceptible glazing of
constraint came over his air as he acknowledged
Tregelva's introduction with a courteous
salute.

'Miss Heath,' he said, in his deep, low,

pleasant voice, ' I think ? ' he paused and

waited to take his cue from her.

'Yes, I think we have met before, many
years ago — so long ago that we might be forgiven
for having forgotten it,' she replied,
smiHng, with a certain cool hauteur, but withal
so lightly and easily that Violet felt prouder
than ever of her friend. She followed Rosemary's
eyes with sympathetic curiosity as
Eosemary looked at Mrs. Raymond, with a
calm and courteous glance which betrayed no
feeling and told no tales, and yet took a comprehensive
survey of George Raymond's wife.

p 2

To a woman, her rival, past or present,
is scarcely less interesting than her lover.
Whether the love-story be a living romance
or, as in this case, a dead and buried thing,
she always looks with curiosity — often with
even more curiosity than antagonism — on the
woman who has supplanted her ; and Violet,
for friendship's sake, now regarded Mrs. Raymond
with well-nigh as much interest as did
Rosemary. They saw a pale and pretty, and
just a little passee, woman — tall and slight
and fair, faded as light blondes fade, as if the
bloom and colour were washed out of them —
with a sort of well-bred listlessness of manner,
and withal a polite readiness to enter into
conversation, and a social aptitude for spinning
small-talk out of nothing. She fell lightly
and easily into chit-chat with Eosemary and
Violet whilst the two gentlemen walked in
together.

Presently Eosemary gracefully drifted
away from the rest of the party, and returned
to the parlour to Mrs. Wentworth, who, as her
quick-eyed niece had seen through the window,
was now sitting there alone.

Aunt Em,* she said, abruptly and confidentially,
' George Raymond and his wife are
here ; Mr. Tregelva knows them and has introduced
us to them ; we have been walking
with them on the piazza.'

She smiled a little scornfully, with reassuring,
if disdainful, coolness as Mrs. Whit-worth's
eyes opened wide with an aghast and
astonished expression at the news of th
proximity of the wicked wolf whom she had
not seen since, years ago, he had prowled
round her fold.

'Remember him or forget him. Auntie
dear, just as you like,' Eosemary added impressively
; ' only, of course, if you remember

him it is as a matter of perfect indifference — a
slight acquaintance of long ago merely.*

Certainly, certainly,' Mrs. Wentworth
agreed vehemently — ' the merest acquaintance.
And I'm sure I don't want to recognise
him at all unless I'm obliged.'

I think it will be advisable not in anyway
to seem to avoid recognition,' Eosemary
suggested coolly.

Mrs. Wentworth was not, however, put to
the test of a meeting with the wolf for some
little time, as Tregelva presently left his
Raymond, and devoted himself to his own
party. He and Staples appeared in the
parlour, each with a flower — Staples bearing a
scarlet pomegranate blossom, which he somewhat
sleepily held out to Violet; Tregelva
bringing a half-blown magnolia, which he
presented to Eosemary.

It seems to suit you somehow,' he said,

looking at her with a tell-tale gleam in his lazy
blue eyes. And he was right : there did seem
to be something akin between Eosemary's pale
and splendid beauty and this gorgeous white
tropical blossom, spotlessly snowy as the lily,
and richer than the red, red rose.

She pinned it on her dress, and looked at
him with her slow, sweet, imperial smile.

Come, let us have a stroll under the
trees where there's shade,' she said amiably.
Accordingly she walked off with Tregelva,
and Yiolet with Staples ; and none of the West
Grove party came into any contact with the
Eaymonds again until supper-time, when it
happened that the arrangements of the tables
brought them together. But, happily, the
EUicotts being at the same table, and seated
beside the Whitworths, saved Eosemary's uncle
and aunt from close contact or compulsory
conversation with the gentleman whom they

habitually alluded to as 'that scoundrel
They exchanged bows and formal salutations,
and that was all. Eosemary herself gave no
sign of consciousness. She was calm and gracious
and smiling. Even Violet, who knew her
so well, could detect no tell-tale expression
on her face or in her manner. As to Tregelva,
he had never known her more charming. He
was enjoying himself extremely. Eosemary
was more appreciative of his entertaining
qualities than he had ever known her before.
She seemed amused by his mildest humour,
and showed unusual interest in his reminiscences
of the turf, to which as a rule she was
passably indifferent. But to-day she was all
sweetness and sympathy. There was not a
ruffle nor an angle in her ; and he was blissfully
unconscious of there being an arriere-
pense in her sweet and responsive acceptance
of his attentions.

Her own party, the three who knew,
watched her with mingled surprise and admiration.
Now and then George Raymond looked
at her when her eyes were turned another
way ; but there were other eyes that kept an
imperceptible, an almost involuntary, watch
on him. Violet was wondering — did he remember?
did he seek to look beneath the
fair impenetrable mask of Eosemary's serene
smiling face and see how much she remembered
? did he ' in his mind's eye ' see her as
she had been — the young, innocent, joyous
girl, almost a child, with ' the wild freshness
of morning ' clinging about her like dew on a
rosebud! Did he contrast that fair lighthearted
child with this pale proud beauty, with
the habitual curve of disdain and hauteur
about her red-ripe lips, the large dreamy
inscrutable dark eyes that held their secrets
deep ? Did he realise at all what his double

perfidy had done to the living as to the
dead ? Did Letice's delicate and fragile loveliness
arise before him, and the memory of
that too tender human lily which broke beneath
the first storm reproach him out of her sister's
eyes ? '

He gave no sign to show. Probably he
had lived so much of life since that long-past
season, and so many fresher and more vivid
memories overlaid it in his mind, that he only
looked back as through a mist to the incidents
of that year.

And as he glanced at Eosemary when her
eyes were turned away, so she, when his were
averted, looked at him — looked, with wondering
and half-incredulous eyes, as on an embodied
dream. And it was like a dream to
her ; she seemed to be looking back at him
across a wide, wide, bridgeless gulf, from a
cold and passionless height — looking down

upon a past too far off for a breath from it to
reach her, although she saw it pictured clear
in the distance— clear in colour and detail, but
far, so far, away !

Of all emotional experiences, there is none
more strange and dreamlike than to meet again
the object of the passion that marred a life
and turned the course of the deep waters of
our destiny into another channel, when that
passion is a dead thing and in its white ashes
no fire smoulders. We can never realise in
its full force the death of love until we look
upon its object living.

So common! — and yet so strange, so
pitiful ! Common as death, and not much less
bitter, when we realise all that it means — •
that we have outlived that portion of our life
which seemed its alL For it seemed the very
vital flame itself — the pulse, the beating heart
of life. Yet it is dead ; and we live on ! We

look on the face we once loved, living, warm
with the colours and the smile of life — and yet
it is like a dead thing, now the glamour that
transfigured it has gone. The glow of love
has passed, as the hues of life have gone from
the dead — as the rosebush of sunset from the
Jungfrau's brow of ice when the last of the
Alpine glow has faded. And that which is
left is but as the form without the soul —

So like the same, yet not the same
For ever — ever more !

These mental crises, which bring the past
into sharp collision with the present, seldom
escape hurtling the future too.

Eosemary felt all this — felt all the strangeness
and bitterness in the superficiality of this
casual meeting ; and yet the strangest thing of
all was that she was so calm. Her heart was
cold and fixed as if the dead love's chill had
frozen it.

She listened, with that form of civil interest
which is only a degree removed from indifference,
to the Eaymonds* talk about their plans
and movements. It appeared that they had
come out to Florida for the winter, partly for
Mrs. Raymond's health, partly for pleasure ;
they had travelled all over Florida, from the
Gulf Coast to the Indian Eiver ; and of course
Mr. Raymond had not stayed there all the
season without finding his pleasure-trip run
into business. He had gone in for some investments
— purchased a plot of land here, and some
railway-shares there ; amongst other things, he
had got a young grove which he was going to
leave in the hands of an agent. This business,
as yet not quite settled, was what detained him
in this neighbourhood so late in the season.
As the Osceola closed the next day, they were
going to move on to Altaville and put up therefor
a week, until Mr. Raymond had completed

his arrangements and was ready to return to
England.

Tregelva also talked of his return, and of
course of the races he should miss and the
races for which he should be in time. Violet,
being nearest to the Eaymonds, chatted with
Mrs. Raymond a little ; the Whitworths devoted
their chief attention to the Ellicott
family, without in any way appearing to slight
the Eaymonds.

Staples sat and looked across the table at
Violet, and at his scarlet pomegranate flower
glowing vividly on the cream-white of her
dress ; and, although he would rather have been
seated beside her, made the best of his position
as her vis-a-vis ; and altogether the supper-hour,
which might have been an embarrassing
ordeal for

More than one and more than two,

passed off pleasantly enough.

Violet and Eosemary went upstairs to one
of the now many vacant bedrooms to dress for
the homeward drive ; and, as the horses were
not yet at the door, they Angered up there,
apart from the rest, finding themselves tete-tete
for the first time since the meeting with
the Eaymonds that afternoon.

It is a dream, Vi ! ' said Eosemary, with
a far-away look in her great dark eyes — ' a

ghost ! It makes me realise ' She paused,

and her brow darkened.

Realise — what, dear ? '

How poor and paltry is this thing that we
call love' Eosemary replied, with passionate
scorn ; ' this miserable moonshine that we talk
of as "immortal" — poor petty passion of a
day ! Our little life's short — but this boasted,
be-poetised love is shorter still ! ' Her Up
curled, and a sombre light glowed in her eyes
as she added, in a deeper, lower tone, ' Oh,

this poor chaff and froth — this dream ! Dkl
Letice die for this ? '

Violet clasped and pressed her hand in
silence. Seldom, indeed, did it happen that
Eosemary uttered her sister's name.

Oh, / am right, Vi ! * she exclaimed after
a minute's pause, with the same ring of scornful
passion in her tone ; ' not you ! You are too
gentle, too soft, too credulous! You dream
and romance about this vanity of vanities !
You look reproach at me, as if I vere playing
with the very sacred fire of Heaven — when I
treat it as it deserves — this wretched flicker
of a day, that dares to call itself love ! No ! I
have no mercy on it — why should I have ? And
you, Yi, even you, have found out that there is
no truth in your pretty fiction of " one love,
one life ! " You have lived to learn that ! '

Yes ; love is only mortal — I see that now,'
Violet admitted slowly. ' But, for all you say,

Eose, it's still the only thing that can turn
earth into heaven, or — the other place ! '

The other place ! ' Eosemary echoed, with
a reckless laugh. ' It doesn't take so marvellous
a power to turn this world to that. I
sometimes think that this our earth is the hell
of some happier world ! '

The purgatory, rather,' rejoined Violet ;
that is one of Max Randolph's ideas ! '

Max Randolph ! ' Eosemary repeated, her
ideas flying ofl* in a new channel. ' Vi, rejoice

that our Max isn't here ! If he were ' She

came to a significant pause.

This morning I could have abided by my
promise ; but if he were here I'd not answer
for myself to-night ! But he's not here — be
thankful for it, and waste your compassion on
Tregelva instead ! He is going to drive me
home.'

Even to her one trusted friend Eosemary

VOL. III. G

did not put into plain words what, indeed, she
had no need to express — what Violet was feminine
enough and quick enough in her sympathies,
if not in her perceptions, to know that
Eosemary must feel. No need to say how
it galled her that, after all these years, the
man who had deceived her — tricked, jilted
her — robbed her of her sister, should find her
free and single still !

Would he dare to think it was for his sake,
in memory of him, that she lived unwed ?

CHAPTEE XXVI.

BLOTTED OUT.

There were two routes from the Osceola to
West Grove House. The shorter drive entailed
crossing the railway — a proceeding to which
nervous people sometimes objected, as the
road crossed the ne close to a sharp curve
of the latter, giving them not unreasonable
grounds for apprehensions of a train rushing
round the corner upon them. Rushing, by
the way, is almost too strong an expression to
apply to the Florida trains, which, as a rule, take
things leisurely, in good old Southern style.
But, anyhow, a train rounding the curve, even
at a moderate rate, might render it exceedingly

G 2

uncomfortable for a vehicle caught on the
line.

The other and longer road was also
lonelier and more picturesque. It led through
almost unbroken wilderness of pine-woods,
and was merely a rough wheel-track, just wide
enough for one vehicle.

Tregelva, who was to drive Eosemary home
in the buggy, proposed taking this road —
of course, not because it was the longer, but
out of professed consideration for Miss Heath's
nerves in regard to the railway crossing ; and
Eosemary, who was not troubled with such
weaknesses as nerves, smiled compactly at his
kind suggestion.

It was a gloomy night — moonless, heavy,
hazy, and sultry ; scarce a star gleamed in the
misty sky ; and in the shadows of the tall
pine-trees it was almost pitch-dark ; they could
barely discern the faint white line of the road

between the dense blackness of the woods on
either side. They had no lamp nor lantern ;
and the tone of Eosemary's observation that
it was very dark seemed to demands reassuring
answer, which Tregelva had ready.

It doesn't matter how dark it is he said ;
old " One Eye " knows the road. If I were to
drop the reins and just let them lie on his back,
he'd take us home all right.'

The horse he was driving was known — in
allusion to the results of an accident — as ' One-eyed
Jim ' ; and a very good horse he was, and
well merited the character his driver gave him.

We shan't have many more drives,' remarked
Tregelva regretfully.

We shan't have any more, home from the
Osceola,' she replied, also with a tinge of regret.

I don't know whether youWe sorry,' he said,
his lazy, languid accents a little quickened,
but sam.'

I am not glad she answered gently — very
gently for Eosemary, of whom it could scarcely
be said that her distinguishing attribute was
gentleness.

'I have to go,' Tregelva continued; 'my
people want me back ; and you are going away
from West Grove House ? '

'Yes, I shall go home when Violet goes
north. Our pleasant winter is over — it has
been a pleasant one ; and the summer is close
upon us, and the time for a general breaking-up
has come. Well,' she added with a sigh,
nothing can last for ever.'

'Some things can last a life-time if one's
lucky,' he replied ; ' but I'm sorry if — if thereto
be nothing lasting, nothing left, of this winter.'

It has been a lost, wasted winter with you,
I am afraid ? ' she said sympathetically. ' You
haven't seen any grove to suit you ; and you
find you couldn't take to Florida life after all.^'

'Perhaps I could — if— if I could have a
home out here of the kind I'd like. But you
you would never like living in Florida ? '

No ; I've had enough of it in my exile at
Pine Edges

I wonder — has my winter out here been
a lost and wasted one ? ' he continued.

Here ' One-eyed Jim ' created a diversion by
turning off the road into the wood, which just
there, luckily, was sparse and scattered, taking
the buggy lurching and plunging over the
rough tussocks of scrub, and piloting it carefully
between the trees.

Now what is he doing this for ? ' Eosemary
inquired placidly.

'He sees some obstacle in the road that
we don't see,' Tregelva replied with abiding faith
in the animal's intelligence. And, indeed, on
straining their eyes through the darkness they
could just distinguish the shadowy bulk of a

large tree fallen right across the road. Having
skirted this obstacle, ' One-eyed Jim,' promptly
and dutifully returned to the way wherein he
should go.

Good horse ! he knows what he's about,'
said his appreciative driver.

He doesn't go very fast, does he ? '
remarked Eosemary.

He knows he has got to be careful tonight,'
was the reply. *And he's taking us
along quite fast enough. We don't want to
cut this drive too short, when we shall have so
few more — unless you're cold ? '

Cold — on such a night ! ' she smiled.

I wonder,' he added, ' isn't there a
chance that we may have some more drives —
somewhere else — far away from here ? '

" Who is he that knows ? " ' she quoted
dreamily.

If the prospect of imminent parting

inclined Tregelva to sentiment, it appeared
to be not without its effect on Eosemary
too. Her sometimes cold and sparkling
brightness was subdued to winning sweetness.
There was even an atmosphere of yielding
softness, touched with alluring sadness,
about her ; and Tregelva knew of nothing
save the prospective parting to which he
could attribute this her apparently softened
mood.

I hope we shall meet in England,' he said ;
« I — I should like you to see my people.'

She heaved a little sigh, as if contemplating
with regret the improbability of such a
pleasant contingency.

They will be very glad to have you back,
won't they?' she rejoined with a gentle and
modest air of retreat from personality, and a
secret sense of sanguine satisfaction — not
perhaps so very far removed in its essential

character from the complacent anticipation of
the cat reclining on the watch near the mouse's
hole.

'Oh, — er — so-so,' he answered. 'The
mater '11 be glad. The governor will, most likely,
say I've been wasting my time and his money
out here — unless the old boy happens to be in a
particularly good temper; and' he does seem
to be rather in the mood sanguine at present.
It appears that the gentle Juliet is smiling just
now.'

Eosemary looked round quickly. She had
forgotten to what the name of ' Juliet ' applied,
and wondered with displeased curiosity who
she was whose smiles had such influence over
Tregelva pere,

The shares are going up,' Tregelva ^/^ continued
— and she drew a breath of relief as she
remembered that Juliet was only a mine — and
safe as a rival, whatever she might be as an

investment ! ' but I hope the governor isn't
building too much on it. Juliet's smiles mayn't
be any more trustworthy than those of the rest
of her sex.'

Have you really such a bad opinion of
women ? ' she asked, with apparently simple
interest ; ' or is it just a parrot-cry caught up
among other men at your clubs ? '

'/ don't talk much about women at my
club, or anywhere else,' he protested. ' I've
never had much to do with them — never cared
much for drawing-room society. I think I told
you so before.'

You have — several times. As you don't
care for women's society, we ought to deem
ourselves greatly favoured that you have
graciously vouchsafed to permit yourself to be
bored by so much of ours'

Yours — yes ; but you're not like other
women.'

Is that a compliment ? ' she asked doubtfully.


As it was meant — yes. It means that you
make other women seem insipid, milk-and-water,
beside you.'

That is pretty good ! ' she thought to herself,
smiling in the darkness. ' He is getting
on ! '

One-eyed Jim ' was trotting briskly along
a clear stretch of road ; they were more than
half-way to West Grove House.

Now or never ! ' thought Eosemary. ' The
time is short, and there may not be another
chance like this.'

It's the way of the world,' she said aloud,
with a touching accent of melancholy musing.
' But it's a hard way — that as soon
as people have grown to be friends and get
along well together it is always time for them
to part.'

But sometimes they meet again,' he said.

Ah, sometimes ! '

We have been good friends, haven't we ? '
he pursued.

Yes, we have. There's one comfort,' she
added with one of her own characteristic turns
of thought : ' the best of friends forget each
other more quickly than enemies do ! As
friends, we shall forget. As enemies, we
should be safe and sure to remember to
life's end.'

Be my enemy, then ! ' he rejoined, more
quickly than usual. ' Be anything, so that
you'll remember me ! '

You wish to be sure of enjoying a man's
privilege — of being the first to forget ? '

Rosemary never could keep up the role of
soft simplicity for long.

« You know I couldn't forget you if I tried,'
he answered. ' You know — you must have

seen — how — how much I've thought of you —
how I've been getting more and more — interested
in you. Of course I don't suppose
you have thought as much of me ? '

It was well for Eosemary's scheme of the
future that in the darkness he could not seethe
little smile that lurked about her mouth.
If he could, he probably would not have

continued in the same tone, ' You'll forget

all about me?'

No,' she said, with a modest touch of

earnestness that really was very well done.

I shan't forget you. I shall think of you —

sometimes — when I'm buried alive in my

dreary exile, and you're happy at home in

dear old England ! '

Why should not you be there with me ? '

he rejoined impulsively. 'Eosemary, you

know how fond I am of you ! Do you — do

you care at all for me ? '

Why do you ask ? '

'For the best of reasons. If you don't
care a fig for me, why, it stops here, aud I say
no more.'

And if — if I were fooHsh enough to care
—a little ? '

'Then — I'd ask you — But look here,
Eosemary — I've thought of you by your name
so long, and you'll let me call you by it now,
won't you? Well, see : I think it's the shabbiest
thing a fellow can do to go making up to a girl
without letting her understand exactly what
his — er — position — financial, and all that, you
know — is. But you do know pretty well how
I'm situated, don't you? I'm the eldest son,
and I must come in for all there is of Tregelva
one day — but there's been a pot of money
raised on the old place, and it's about all the
governor can do now, and all I shall be able
to do when I step into his shoes, to keep the

mortgages paid up and the roof over our heads
unless, indeed, the gentle Juliet turns out
a bonanza. But still, when all's said and
done, there always is the old place there, and
it's a nice old place, though I say it, and the
Tregelvas '11 hold their heads as high as ever
in the neighbourhood as long as there's a shot
in the locker. And — well, Eosemary, what do
you say ? '

Eosemary, who liked clear and definite
understandings in such cases as these, had her
words ready.

The gist of what you have been saying is,

if I understand you rightly ' With an

eloquent hiatus, she paused for a reply.

Is that I want to know if you'll marry
me,' he replied with delightful plain speaking
that left nothing further to be desired.

Well, now, what would your people say ? '
she demurred.

Oh, they're all right. I can do what I
like — and the matters always been anxious
to see me married. No fear but she'll be
pleased — it's a regular fad of hers that young
men ought to marry ; but I've never seen the
woman I'd care to call my wife till I knew
you. Well, is it yes or no ? '

In the moment that elapsed before she gave
her answer her thoughts were neither of lor
lover, nor of his family, nor of any future beyond
the morrow. The wonder that flashed into her
mind was, whether Tregelva would see George
Raymond the next day — whether he would tell
him the news of his engagement ? In imagination,
she was hearing the tidings imparted to
the Eaymonds, conjecturing George Eaymonds 's
reception of it, even as she spoke the all-important
monosyllable, ' Yes.'

One-eyed Jim ' was a discreet and trustworthy
horse; he required little or no attend

III. H

tion to be paid to his bridle; and perhaps
Tregelva had never appreciated this judicious
quadruped's virtues more highly than now,
when his implicit reliance on the faithful
Jim left his arms free to dispose of themselves
according to his wishes. Although Tregelva
took the situation coolly, transacting his affairs
of the heart without losing his head, and, even
as a lover, preserving his normal sang-froid
although he made few protestations and went
into no raptures — yet he was not slow to avail
himself of the usual privileges attendant upon
an accepted proposal, whilst Jim trotted on
steadily and sure-footed through the dark
glades of the pine-woods, wherein human eyes
could scarcely distinguish the faint pale Hne
of road stretching ahead through the deep
shadows. When the sagacious steed turned
suddenly off the road again, it was not at
all on account of his driver's neglect of the

reins, but because they had arrived at a large
pool in the path — a hollow, brimmed by recent
rains, which Jim discreetly preferred skirting
to splashing through.

He's all right,' observed Tregelva ; ' the
old horse doesn't like water, and he's going
round it.'

" One-eyed Jim " is sure to be right, isn't
he ? ' said Eosemary. ' I like to see such faith
it promises well,' she added demurely.

If a fellow has any sense at all he ought
to know where to trust,' replied Tregelva. He
was not of a suspicious nature, although he
rather prided himself on knowing a good deal
of the world. He was not in the least mistrustful
nor doubtful of Eosemary, although he
understood her no more than he did the occult
sciences. He thought she was rather a flirt ;
but he had been informed, on what he regarded
as competent authority, that married flirts often

H 2

make the best of wives. And perhaps he was
not wrong m his estimate of Eosemary, so far
as holding that she would be loyal where she
once pledged her faith, and that a friend so
true and tender must have in her all the
capacities for being a good wife.

As soon as the two friends were alone
together Eosemary told her news to Violet.

It's no secret,' she said. ' He is going
to write to his people this mail. There's no
shilly-shallying about Tregelva, with all his
laissez-aller ways ; and he is free to tell his
friends here, and I shall impart the glad
tidings to Aunt Em tomorrow ; but I wouldn't
tell anybody before you, my Vi ! '

Then it's really serious this time, Eose ? '
said Violet, pressing her hand affectionately.

Oh, yes ; it's serious. After all, you know,
Vi, we've left our teens some way behind, and
it's time we should settle ; and I might do worse

And — lie knows — the Eaymonds,' she added,
more slowly, ' and they'll hear of it ! '

Violet bent her head comprehending, if a
little sadly, but made no verbal comment on
this reason for satisfaction with her friend's
matrimonial prospects, passing on to other
aspects of the matter which she deemed more
satisfactory still.

I am so glad ! He will suit you perfectly, I
am sure. It is just what I should have wished
for you, Eosa mia. You couldn't do better in
the way of family. Tregelva's evidently the
show place, the " big house," of the neighbourhood
— just the position for you ! And, as to
money, what people like these Tregelvas think
poverty would seem competence to us. And he
is such a nice, good fellow ! '

I am glad you're satisfied,' said the happy
bride-elect, with an air of indifference for her
own part.

I was afraid that if he proposed you
wouldn't accept him,' observed Violet.

Perhaps I shouldn't, but for the two spurs
that have pricked the sides of my intent ; one,
the impending return home. Anyhow, Tree
mortgaged or not, will be a better place
than Pine Eidge ! And then — this meeting
to-day ! — that put the finishing touch ! '

^ Yes, I know,' said her friend. ' I think,
dear, this day's meeting will turn out to be a
blessing in disguise, if it has brought you two
together. And as to poor old Pine Eidge,
why, when you have left it far behind, you'll
be thankful for it that anyhow it brought you
to Florida and sent you to West Grove House.'

Optimist to the end, Vi I '

To the end ! You talk as if all things
were finished.'

I feel to-night as if they were. I have a
kind of feeling, Vi, as if this season were the

crucial one of both our destinies — yours and
mine

'Well, if it is, and means to do anything
for me,' said Violet gaily, ' it had better " hurry
up," for it is nearly over.'

Not quite over yet.'

It seemed doubtful whether Eosemary
would again be brought into any contact
with the faithless lover of her early youth — her
brief chance meeting with whom had, nevertheless,
had its effect and done its work. The
Whitworths had, of course, given no invitation
to the Eaymonds to call at West Grove House,
and would entertain no idea of driving to
Altaville while the Eaymonds were there. But
one day Tregelva and Conyers — all unknowing
of any strained relations or past connection
between the two families — went over to Alta-ville
; and a day or two after that, Tregelva,

who was taking his Eosemary for a drive in
the buggy, proposed to drive on to Altaville,
as they were near the Altaville road, and he
would like to have a few more words with the
Eaymonds before they went north. Rosemary
did not wish to betray any reluctance to
meet the Eaymonds, or, indeed, any feeling at all
in connection with them, and thus could offer
no objection to her new lover's proposition.
Possibly the little quiver of excitement that
thrilled her at the thought of meeting with
George Raymond and his wife, by Tregelva's
side, as Tregelva's fiancee was not entirely
painful.

So to the Altaville Hotel they went, and
there they found the Eaymonds on the shadiest
piazza, in company with the other guests who
were left in the hotel — now but few, as the
majority of tourists and visitors had already
set their faces to the north.

Amongst the ladies who lounged about in
light dresses, with languidly waving fans, Rosemary
singled out Mrs. Raymond at once ; and,
even whilst they were exchanging courteous
though not enthusiastic greetings, Eosemary,
looking at Mrs. Raymond's fair, faded face,
felt with a keen, quick sense of pride and joy
the contrast between herself in her full fresh
bloom and regal grace, and this pale, washed-out
blonde who had been ' preferred before
her.' She speedily detected, by a trace of
feminine interest in Mrs. Raymond's languid
look as it turned from herself to Tregelva, that
the Eaymonds were cognisant of the new
aspect of affairs and of her position as Tree
chosen bride-elect; and when George
Raymond came up and joined the group, his
acquaintance with the situation was also
evident.

At first they only talked of the impending

return to England. The Eaymonds would be
moving in two days; Tregelva now thought
he would stay on at West Grove House until
Rosemary and Violet left. Presently, while
Tregelva was talking to Mrs. Raymond, Rosemary
found George Raymond by her side. He
bent towards her with a courteous smile of
complimentary significance as he said in a
slightly lowered voice :

I hear I have to congratulate my friend
Tregelva, Miss Heath?'

Don't you think you might congratulate
me too ? ' she said, looking calmly in his face
with a slight haughty smile.

Tregelva's the best of fellows,' he replied,
but you will pardon me for thinking that he is
the most to be congratulated.' There was a
tendency to sentiment in the tone, if not in the
words, of the commonplace compliment, which
revealed that he would be ready for tender

reminiscence if she chose to encourage it. She
felt the possibility, and hated him !

She raised her head, and shot one look
at him that would have scathed him if eyes
could blight — one withering glance of implacable
scorn and hatred — one flash of the fire of
undying wrath and memory ! It flashed and
faded : her fair face was calm and impassive
again in a moment ; she turned from him to
Mrs. Raymond with a smile, and made some
pleasant passing remark to her, and took care
that the conversation thenceforth should be
general, and that there should be no chance of
another word apart between her and George
Raymond. Neither then nor ever, she resolved,
would she allow one such word from him
again ! never, in all the days to come !

That look of hers was the seal which
closed that volume of her past. She shut it,
locked it, thrust it away far, far from her, her

mind made up to look no more for ever on any
images which recalled the old love, all reminiscences
of which were simply hateful to her
now.

If memory had been but a material thing,
with what ruthless joy she would have pushed
it into the red heart of the fire, or sunk it deep
in the deepest lake ! Although the waters go
over such remembrances without drowning
them, and even the fire of hate fails to burn
up and destroy all the memories of love, yet
to a certain extent our thoughts are within
our own command. We can if we so will
it, turn our eyes unflinchingly from morbid
contemplation of the past — fix them resolutely
upon the future. And thus Eosemary now,
once and for all, put behind her all reminiscences
and memorials, all the ' trivial fond
records,' of a love that had turned to loathing,
of which now there was nothing left save

that shrinking recoil and hatred of any train
of association that recalled it, and an abiding
wonder — what was there, what could there ever
have been, in this man to win such love from
two such women as herself and Letice, and
work such havoc in two lives ? The glamour
even of memory was gone for ever ! she had
turned over a new leaf in life ; and, because
the thought of the past was so hateful, she
bent all her mind forward to the future — her
future as Tregelva's wife !

CHAPTER Xxiii.

ONE TOO MANY.

The sun is still high in the western hemisphere,
but the welcome shadows are lengthening, and
there are cool green spaces of shade beneath
the trees, where one may find relief and shelter
from the dazzling brazen glare of the afternoon
sunshine. High up, hidden in the boughs of a
great magnolia-tree, a mocking bird is pouring g
out his shrill, sweet, changeful carol.

And tender and gay the bird sang on,
And cooed and whistled and trilled ;

And the wasteful wealth of life and love
From his happy heart was spilled !

Max Randolph turns his head to listen to
the joyous songster, as he walks leisurely across.

the vivid scarlet fields of flowering sorrel
towards West Grove House once more. Ashe
comes in view of its old familiar face, he
sees that the usual social party he has been
accustomed to find gathered outside are conspicuous
by their absence. The hammock
swings empty ; the rocking-chairs stand unoccupied
; east piazza and south piazza are alike
deserted ; the mocking-bird sings to an empty
house ! It is the first time except in hours of
pouring rain that Max has ever found it so.
Always this hospitable house has seemed to
smile on the approaching visitor — has opened
its doors and windows to him, with an air of
exuberant geniality, as if the walls could not
contain its friendly spirits and they overflowed
on to balcony and piazza. Now, although,
certainly, doors and windows stand open as ot
old, not a creature is to be seen, inside or outside.
He feels, with an unreasonable sense of

disappointment, that this seems but a cold
welcome.

He finds the house door standing ajar, as it
usually does. There is no bell ; and if there
were a bell there is nobody whose business
it is to answer it. The way of proceeding is
simply to walk in and walk about until you
find somebody. Mr. Randolph does so accordingly.
He modestly pauses in the hall and
looks about him, and sees nobody. The
smoking-room door being open, he glances in
there. Nobody ! Then he pushes open the
parlour door, which is also a few inches ajar
and looks in there, with the same result. Then
he turns towards Mr. Wentworth's sanctum,
variously known as ' his study,' or ' the office ' —
generally the office when strangers come on
business bent, and study at other times — and,
that door being closed, he raps on the panels,
and receives no answer.

Then he makes up his mind to go out and
sit on the piazza and wait there till somebody
comes — if indeed he waits at all ; and he is
rather doubtful whether he will, for this is a
disappointing reception to meet with, when a
man has come back from a several weeks'
cruise Up and down the Gulf Coast. However,
as he crosses the hall towards the piazza, Mrs.
Wentworth comes in from the kitchen regions
by the back-door steps.

Why, Mr. Randolph ! ' she exclaims, with
cordial welcome; 'it's you,, is it? Well, I
thought I heard hoots ! '

Not creaking very badly, I trust ? ' he
responds. ' And how are you all, Mrs. Whit-worth?
I was looking about and wondering
whether I was lucky enough to find anyone
at home.'

Well, Tm at home, you see ; but I think
I'm about the only one there is. Those girls

VOL. III. I

are off somewhere with some of the boys. The
boys are nearly all scattered ; but we've got
a few here still. Chad wick and Conyers are
getting some fish for supper. I hope, for your
sake, they'll catch a good dish of perch. And,
by the bye, I think I heard the girls say they
were going on Lake Annabel.'

It occurs to the visitor that Mrs. Whit-worth,
who wears a somewhat preoccupied air
of business, and has issued from the domestic
regions, was probably disturbed in some household
industry by his arrival ; and he presently
puts forward an only partly unselfish suggestion
that he ' might stroll round the grounds,
and see if he came across any of the other
members of the party ' — a suggestion which
Mrs. Wentworth is prompt to second.

I dare say you'll find those girls out in the
boat on Lake Annabel,' she observes, not wasting
breath on the supposition of his following

in the track of the fishermen to Lake
Eosalie.

Towards Lake Annabel, accordingly, Max
Randolph took his way. He crossed the grove,
and followed the narrow footpath through the
scattered wilderness of oak and pine. He had
got out of sight of West Grove House — and,
indeed, of any house or habitation at all, as the
trees shut in the prospect, and prevented any
outlook beyond a few yards — when he came in
view of two young people seated sociably, not
to say affectionately, on a fallen trunk — rosemary
and Tregelva. He could not see their
faces, as it was almost a back view of the
tableau that presented itself to his eyes ; but
he recognised their figures — especially hers.
Well indeed he knew of old the blue and
white striped dress, the coiled waves of red-gold
hair.

They, of course, could not see him approach

2

ing along the path behind them, and his steps
fell noiselessly in the loose soft sand. So there
was nothing to disturb their peace of mind,
nor to break up the picture, which was an interesting
one, especially to Mr. Randolph.

Although this track leading through the
wood to Lake Annabel was not a private path,
yet it was very seldom trodden by any save the
inhabitants of West Grove House. The lovers
were well aware of the distribution and dispersion
of the other members of the household ;
they knew that Yiolet and Staples were safe
out of the way on one lake, Chadwick and
Conyers on the other, Mr. Wentworth out on
business, and Mrs. Wentworth at home on
domestic duties bent.

Thus, as they deemed themselves entirely
secure from either prying eyes or interruption,
Tregelva's arm was round Eosemary's waist,
and her head reclined trustfully on his shoulder.

Max Randolph looked for only a moment
on the tableau so evidently not intended for
any other eyes, and least of all, perhaps, for his !

He felt it would be embarrassing to intrude
on this affectionate and happy pair, undignified
to retreat. Fortunately, a narrow track branching
off through the wood just at this point,
offered him a third alternative, and he lost
not a moment in deciding upon it. This track
landed him eventually on the bank of the
lake, although by a rougher and more roundabout
route than the broader way on which
the lovers' tableau unconsciously played the
part of Lion in the Path.

He looked out on the lake, and saw the
boat, with Staples at the oars, and Violet in
the stern, glide out from the shadows of the
overhanging trees. Another happy pair ! But
if as happy as the first, their contentment and
devotion were less demonstratively evident.

Possibly, Max thought with a grim smile, the
difference might be due to the difficulty of
combining the occupations of rowing and love-making
— except in its tamer forms of mere
verbal expression. His keen-sighted eyes
perceived that Staples wore a supremely contented
look, and that Violet was smiling happily
as she looked in her companion's face. He
felt unreasonably inclined to quarrel with somebody
; he did not particularly care whom —
perhaps Tregelva for choice. It appeared to
him a foolish waste of time and trouble to call
at West Grove House at all. He had a mind
to turn back at once, and return no more to
this his old haunt, where it seemed to him clear
that he was now not wanted, where the role
allotted to him seemed to be the very undignified
and unpleasing one of an unwelcome
intruder on interesting tete-a-tetes.

Perhaps in obedience to this impulse of

pride and temper, he would have turned away
from the spot, if the couple in the boat had not
just then chanced to glance ashore and catch
sight of him. He saw them look, and lean to
look again — saw them bend forward to speak to
each other, Violet the more eagerly of the two
saw how, evidently in compliance with her
request, Staples turned the boat's head towards
the shore — towards the spot where he stood.
He waved his hat in sign of greeting as they
approached, and stepped down to the brink to
meet them.

'So it is really you ! ' exclaimed Violet
gladly, leaning forward with a joyous smile as
the boat grazed among the rushes.

Will you get out. Miss Preston ? ' asked
Staples, shipping his oars, and looking at her
inquiringly.

Certainly,' she replied, rising with alacrity.
Staples rose too, and offered his hand to help

her ashore. Randolph, coming close to the
boat, also offered his.

One apiece ! ' she laughed, giving a hand
to each as she stepped over the side. Her hand
naturally rested a good deal longer in the
clasp which was a greeting and a welcome
than in that which was merely a helping hand.

I would not believe it was you at first,'
she observed ; ' Mr. Staples said he was sure
it was.'

Even I — in the flesh ; not my ghost come
back from the Gulf Coast to haunt you ! '

Violet laughed happily, her fair face a little
flushed with the pleasure of meeting, which her
frank eyes did not conceal.

She was glad to see him, and she made no
disguise of it. For the moment she had almost
forgotten the circumstances which had
attended his departure — forgotten that the
secret of her heart was no longer hers alone,

was trusted to Eosemary's keeping — forgotten
even that she had a secret. And when she
remembered it, it brought no shade of embarrassment
into her manner, no cloud of constraint
between herself and the man who
little dreamt of the part he, all unconsciously,
played in her life. Still frankly as ever she
looked up at him with her clear eyes, her
candid smile. Why should she be embarrassed
or confused with him? He did not know
what had passed ; and Eosemary was loyal
and would never betray. And she had always
been used to welcome Max Randolph with
open and friendly pleasure. Why should she
not now be just as she had always beene A
change in her manner might arouse his wonder
perhaps his suspicions; the old unfeigned
and fearless cordiality could bear no such
danger with it.

Violet did not consciously and deliberately

reason thus with herself — at least not until
afterwards. She merely obeyed her impulses,
which, in this instance at least, guided her
unerringly in the identical line which cool
reasoning would have dictated ; for if she
wished to keep the secret of her altered
feelings from Max Randolph, what better
means could she adopt than to preserve an
unaltered manner ?

Max felt himself mollified by the warmth
of the greeting which he received here. Here
there was no doubt that he was welcome, no
mortifying sense of being one too many. It
was poor Staples now who was the odd one ;
and the more Max Randolph's injured feelings
were appeased the more Staples felt aggrieved.
They forgot him in their lively mutual inquiries
— the usual 'What have you seen and
where have you been ? ' babble and chit-chat
of meeting.

I — I've got some letters to write,' Staples
observed presently. ' It's later than I thought
it was. I think I'll go in and do my letters
now.' He paused for a reply, and, finding
no appeal to stay and postpone his correspondence
for awhile, he added, ' I daresay Mr.
Randolph will take you for another turn on
the lake if you want another.'

It's the loveliest time of the day,' she
replied : ' it seems a pity to go in now ? ' and
she turned towards Staples with a kindly smile,
and a self-reproachful twinge at her heart,
which organ, Eosemary was wont to tell her,
was made of nothing firmer than butter.

'A great pity,' Max assented promptly,
taking upon himself to answer the remark.
'Come — let us have a row round,' and he
handed Violet back into the boat.

Poor Staples ! ' he observed as he pulled
out into the middle of the lake, and, glancing

back to the shore, saw the disconsolate figure of
Staples disappearing among the trees, ' I think
he wishes me back on the Gulf Coast ! '

He looked at Violet and smiled. She
smiled too, lips, eyes, dimples, all suffused by a
soft radiance, transfigured by a tender flush
and light of happiness.

She was not sufficiently sorry for Staples to
cloud her gladness in having Max Randolph in
his place.

The afternoon was mellowing towards
evening ; the declining sun was tangled in
the feathery tops of the pine-trees. Not a
breath of wind stirred the leaves nor ruffled
the glassy surface of the lake, save where the
ripples, running ashore, whispered faintly among
the rushes, and where the dipping oars broke
up the mirrored landscape. Violet leant back
and dabbled her fingers in the water with
dreamy content.

Isn't it lovely ! ' she breathed happily. ' It
seems a sin to be on land. Why is there such
a delight in getting off the solid earth ? '

Is it the charm of trusting to an alien
element — an inimical element, that would be
death if it had us down there in its depths ? '

I thought it was going to get me the other
day, when Mr. Staples and I were caught in an
awful storm on the big lake,' she said, and related
their adventure.

What was he thinking of to keep you out
till the storm came on ? ' was Max's disapproving
comment ; ' he ought to have seen it
coming ! '

'He couldn't: no one could,' she replied
staunchly. ' And he was so good, so kind
and careful, doing the very best he could forme.'


I wonder if you'd speak up in my defence
as warmly and loyally ? ' he said, casting one

of his questioning, half-smiling, under-glances
in her face.

Of course not ! ' she exclaimed jestingly.
I wouldn't advise you to trust your character
in w,y hands. Don't you know I'd rend it piecemeal
? ' she continued with a low happy laugh.
Her heart was unreasoningly light ; it was so
sweet to be thus face to face with Max Randolph
once more, alone with him out on the
water in this little boat, floating on this lovely
lake, radiant and pure and peaceful as a happy
dream !

Her whole soul rested, softly lapped in the
bright and peaceful influences of the hour and
scene, with no thought of the future, no shadow
from the past, to mar the present.

Are you glad to see me back ? ' he asked,
half lightly, half seriously.

Yes, of course I am,' she replied in the
same tone. ' Was I not always glad to see you? '

You are always good to me,' he rejoined
appreciatively and gratefully.

Yes, I treat you better than your deserts,'
she said, smiling.

I have often thought of you,' he went on.
I've got a little sketch for you — little study of
Gulf Coast landscape.'

And how many for Eosemary ? '

'Oh, a whole portfolio-full, of course.
She'll value them so much! They'll be her
dearest treasures. Miss Eosemary as lovely as
ever?' - ■

'Yes, except for a couple of mosquito-bites,
which, are nearly well now.'

Wicked of mosquitoes to bite hers isn't
it ? She's been on the warpath, working havoc
as usual, I suppose ? '

Oh, yes,' Violet assented, but delicately
refrained from adding any allusion to the conquest
of Tregelva. She left Eosemary to make

her own confidences, and tell lier own news in
her own way ; anyhow, she would not be the
one to impart the tidings to Max.

'And you? — are you up to mischief, too,
eh, Miss Violet?'

No more than Satan always finds for idle
hands to do ! ' she laughed, but with a little
colour flickering guiltily on her cheek, as the
allusion reminded her of Staples and his declaration,
any renewal of which she had successfully
staved of! — although being ' so very
human ' and so essentially feminine, she rather
enjoyed than not the secret consciousness of
her power.

The sun was sinking lower behind the tops
of the pine-trees ; their feathery plumes stood
out in clearest, finest pencilling against the fiery
rays, starless as pictures of trees in the still air.

Sweet and fleet the hour flew by, as such
hours do ; and it was time to return, and Violet

smiled at Max, and heaved a little sigh to herself
as he turned the boat's head to the .
She was reluctant to return to the
solid earth ; it was like a step back from dreamland
to waking.

For just this little hour it seemed that
she and Max had drifted away into a sweet,
serene, dream-world of their own ; and now
they must come back to a world they shared
with others.

On their way home along the wood-path
they came upon Eosemary and Tregelva sauntering
ahead of them, walking discreetly now
a few inches apart. Hearing voices behind
them, the leading couple looked round, and,
apparently sociably disposed, lingered till the
others came up.

Why, what conjuring trick is this ? ' said
Eosemary gaily as she gave her hand in greeting
to Mr. Randolph, but addressed her words

VOL. III. K

to Violet. ' You went out with Mr. Staples,
and, hey-presto ! he has changed into Mr.
Randolph ! Show us how you do the trick,
Vi ; change him back ! '

'The change doesn't please Miss Rosemary,'
Max remarked. ' Would that I could turn
myself into Staples ! '

What have you done with Staples ? '
asked Tregelva compassionately. ' Has an alligator
got him ? Or has he performed one of
his celebrated swimming feats again ? '

The quartette did not remain together long,
but parted into pairs again as before, and in
this order returned to the house, where they
found Conyers and Chadwick exhibiting the
results of the day's sport, in the shape of a fine
string of fish, to Mrs. Wentworth in the hall.

On hearing that Mr. Randolph was not now
staying with his friend Martin, who had already
gone north, but putting up at the Altaville

Hotel, the Whitworths hospitably insisted upon
his taking up his quarters at West Grove
House.

'Bring your valise right over tomorrow
morning — to-night if you like. You can
have a room, two rooms, three rooms, four
rooms if you wish ! '

I think three will be enough,' he replied
gravely, ' a sleeping-room, a dressing-room, and
a study. Do not trouble about the fourth.'

It seemed quite like old times again to
have Randolph once more amongst them, and
this remark was made several times by divers
members of the company. Mrs. Whit worth
once added a suggestion that they should kill a
fatted calf; but Max objected to this, as implying
a slur on his moral character.

Perhaps the one of the party who was
least gratified by his re-appearance on the scene
was Staples, who wore the sulky expression

K 2

which once lead seemed to be his normal one,
especially when, after supper, on the piazza,
Max Randolph took up his place by Violet's side
as naturally as did Tregelva by his Eosemary.

'The party has diminished a good deal,'
Max remarked to Violet ; ' we are a small company
here to-night compared to what we used
to be.'

Yes ; happily, we have some left still to
comfort us.'

Do you miss those other fellows ? '

'Well, yes — rather,' she replied frankly.
They were nice boys, and I liked them ; that
bright boy Christie especially.'

You are like the girl in somebody's poem
forget whose, but I remember the sort of
girl ; like you.

She liked whatever
She looked on, and her looks went everywhere.'

I don't think I scatter my affections broadcast

quite so freely as that she answered. ' But
I generally do like people who are kind and
nice to me.'

There ! I told you you liked everybody,*
he rejoined. Now / never like people merely
because they like me. If they don't attract
by any other quality, they don't attract me by
that alone. But I suppose women are different
? '

I can't answer for my sex in general,' gie.
said ; ' I only know for myself, that I can't help
liking people who like me.'

You like me, then, don't you ? ' observed
Max.

At this unusually complimentary and demonstrative
expression on his part, Violet
opened her blue eyes wide, with a half amused,
half-astonished smile. As this look was her
only answer, he repeated his remark with
amplification.

1 say you have one reason to like me,
then, even if you haven't any other.'

But perhaps I have several other reasons,'
she replied. ' You take me for nice rows on
the lake, and for nice drives, and you bring me
nice sketches from the Gulf Coast.'

'Yes,' he assented drily, 'I do all that,
certainly. Of course there are not many men
would do as much.'

That day was one of the days marked with
a white stone in Violet's life ; and the stone to
mark it was one of the biggest, whitest, most
flawless and spotless of its kind. Although
Max Randolph's departure had been a relief to
her, as peace after storm, yet his return was a
delight — she had not dreamt until to-day what
a delight it would be.

She had been enjoying life well without
him, certainly ; but to be with him again turned
her passive mood of contentment to keen, live,

active happiness — made the heart which only
that morning had rested in passionless peace
now beat high

With hopes and fears that kindle hope,

An undistinguishable throng ;
And gentle wishes long subdued —

Subdued and cherished long !

She was so happy now in her relations with
Eosemary too — happy and hopeful for Eosemary
as well as for herself. She liked Tregelva
well, and highly approved of the engagement ;
she rejoiced to realise how utterly dead was
Eosemary 's girlish passion for George Raymond,
all that was left of it being the undying
sting of mortified pride, the sombre quenchless
fire of resentment. Undying and quenchless
indeed these would be in a nature such as
Eosemary 's. But Violet could clearly see that
even these throbs of the bygone stab, which
once had cleft her heart in twain, would cease
to fret Eosemary when her path and the Raymond'

were parted wide and she was Tregelva's
wife. She would be very happy with Tom
Tregelva, Violet was sure ; all the happier, perhaps,
because, although she liked him very
much, she was not in love with him. For the
susceptible and impressionable woman there
is no more fatal error in life than to marry
the man she only likes ; but for the woman of
Rosemary's disposition it is the most sensible
and satisfactory proceeding. For the woman
whose nature is as ice covering latent fire, it
is madness to take the step which is safe and
wise for the opposite pole of womanhood, in
whom the lambent play of flame on a surface of
superficial warmth covers a core of ice, firm,
and fixed, and cold. Eosemary was practical
under her superficial romance, self-poised and
self-centred underneath her apparent dependence
on the love and admiration she inspired.
Violet knew her friend's temperament well

enough to have no fears for her future, to rejoice
in her prospective anchorage in the safe
harbour of matrimony. And, for her own part
too, her heart was unreasoningly and absurdly
buoyant this night. Not only was she happy
at being with Max once more — happy in his
kind and almost tender attention — but also
happy to think that they had met in the old
frank and friendly fashion, that she had betrayed
no sign of consciousness nor constraint,
that he could have no suspicion of the secret
of her heart. She knew that her unconcealed
pleasure in his society, open as a sister's, washer
best screen to hide that innocent secret for
which, if it had been known, she would have
blushed more than for a crime. She appealed
to Eosemary to confirm her hopeful faith.

'You don't think he has any idea, Eose,
do you? You see, I am exactly as I
always used to be to him — just as free and

friendly as ever. You don't think he has an
inkling ? '

No, Vi ; I'm sure he has no suspicion
at all,' Eosemary assured her sincerely. ' But,
my child, don't you — don't you want him to
have an idea ? '

Oh, no, no,' Violet protested. ' I couldn't
look him in the face if — if he dreamt '

Not yet eh, Vi ? ' said Eosemary with a
keen but kindly glance. ' There ! you needn't
turn into a pomegranate flower ! ' and she laid
her cool fingers with a half tender, half loftily
superior and protecting caress on Violet's glowing
cheek.

And you say, Vi, he didn't ask you anything
about me and Tregelva ? ' she added.

No, only a general inquiry, in a chaffing
way, about your being on the warpath.'

I'd like to tell him myself,' said Eosemary,
but of course they won't leave me the chance.

He's in the smoking-room with the rest of them ;
and men are just as big gossips as women,
although nothing astonishes them more than to
tell them so. I shall be truly astonished if those
babbling boys leave me my own tale to tell ; but
they won't, no such luck ! I shouldn't wonder
if they have already imparted it to him. I'm
only surprised that Aunt Em hasn't abbacy
been crowing and cackling over her bit of
news, like a hen with one chick. She is so
delighted that I am sure she would like to cry
it from the housetops.'

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HURT WITH JAR AND FRET.'

Violet was swaying gently to and fro in her
favourite rocking-chair on the south piazza.
Close beside her, Staples stood leaning against
the wall with his hands in his pockets ; while
Conyers and Chadwick reposed in two other
rocking-chairs at a more respectful distance.

A rose and three thorns,' Max Randolph
remarked when he arrived, accompanied by a
negro carrying his valise.

And room for a fourth thorn,' Violet replied,
with a greeting that was glad and gay.

He made no inquiry after the other rose,
but he perceived at a glance that neither she

nor Tregelva were in sight. He lead not,
however, long to wait for a glimpse of her ; he
had only been a few minutes lounging with
the piazza party — Staples having somewhat
ostentatiously shouldered himself along the
wall a little farther from Violet, as if to offer
room for the newcomer — when he heard the
soft tap of light feet in the fashionable high-heeled
shoes, which Eosemary's soul loved, on
the bare boards of the hall ; and Eosemary,
cool, fresh, and airy-looking, in a white dress
with blue ribbons, came to the open doorway
and looked out on the piazza, but did not
cross the threshold.

She gave Randolph a smiling, easy greeting,
remarked that they must be all baking in
the sun out there, and drifted gently back into
the hall and aside into the parlour. Max cast
one of his quick keen glances through the
parlour window. No, Tregelva was not there

unless, indeed, he were hidden under the
table or behind the curtains. Rosemary was,
then, there alone I Violet was looking round
speaking to Staples for a moment. When she
turned her head Max was gone — had followed
straight and direct in Eosemary's track.

Rosemary stood turning over the books on
the parlour table when he came in.

Am I trespassing ? ' he asked, standing
beside her, and looking at her with keen intent
eyes.

Not at present,' she answered, with her
cool, half mocking, half-defiant smile.

I have to congratulate you,' he said
abruptly.

I thought you might be civil enough to
say that someone else was the person to be
congratulated,' she replied.

'Yes, I suppose that is what I ought to
say,' he rejoined in an indifferent mechanical

kind of way, gazing at her as if thinking far
more of her look than of his own words.

And wouldn't you mean it, then ? ' she
asked. ' Do you pity him instead of — congratulating
? '

No. I don't waste my pity on my own
sex. Men must look out for themselves.'

How fortunate for me that I have found
one who couldn't take care of himself — who
took so little care as to " walk into my parlour !

Tis the prettiest little parlour
That you did ever spy ! " '

she sang lightly.

There is the fly,' Max observed, as a
man's step was heard in the hall, and Tregelva
passed the half-open parlour door, casting a
glance into the room as he went by, but not
pausing.

He wants you, I suppose,' said Randolph
drily.

Strange as it may seem to you, I suppose
he does,' she replied.

She turned to the nearest open window
and leant out, and looked along the piazza
towards Tregelva, who promptly obeyed her
unspoken summons. The parlour had three
windows on the south side, all three of course
looking on the south piazza, and all open this
sunny morning. Out of one of these open
windows Eosemary leant ; near to another
one Violet was sitting outside on the piazza
in her rocking-chair ; to this latter window
Max Randolph turned, and leaning out — as
Eosemary was leaning from the adjacent one —
he addressed some casual remark to Violet.
She had Staples on her other side — Staples,
adherent and monosyllabic — and she divided
her attention between the two, as she thought,
very fairly ; but Staples apparently was of another
opinion.

You want to get rid of me now, I suppose,'
he observed, in a sulky sotto voce in her ear,
and, walking away, left Randolph in possession
of the field. Conyers and Chadwick soon
retired to the smoking-room, perhaps feeling
the atmosphere of the piazza too heavily laden
with suggestions of sentiment and associations
recalling memories of ' the girls they'd left
behind them,' for their peace. ^

Eosemary, in her Juliet attitude at the window,
her arms resting folded on the sill, her
ruddy-gold head leaning against the frame,
was smiling as she talked in undertones to
Tregelva, who, a more fortunate and infinitely
more comfortably situated Eomeo, had got an
armchair outside, reposing luxuriously in which
he conversed at ease with his beloved, with
lover-like exclusiveness of attention.

At the other window the position was
reversed ; it was Eomeo who leant out of the

VOL. III. L

window to his Juliet outside ; but this Eomeo
wore a less happy expression. Max Randolph's
best friends admitted that he had a
morose streak in his temper ; he wore a somewhat
morose and moody expression now ; and
although he leant over Violet's shoulder, and
Staples had obligingly left the coast clear, yet
Violet was not so much the better off for his
company. There was a cloud upon his brow,
a caustic quality in his remarks, and a general
tendency to grim irony in his manner.

Violet felt the atmosphere perceptibly although
undefinable less bright, less clear, than
yesterday. Perhaps the side-view, which Randolph
could enjoy whenever he turned his head,
of the Eomeo and Juliet tableau in the other
window did not tend to improve his spirits.

Juliet's fair head ere long began to retreat,
drawing inch by inch farther back into the
room ; her Eomeo tilted his chair nearer and

nearer as he followed, bending farther and
farther forwards, until at length she had drawn
quite back into the room and was entirely lost
to outer view, his pursuing head and shoulders
also disappearing in at the window ; while out
of the other Mr. Randolph, with commendable
discretion, leant farther and farther forward.
Violet looked round and surveyed the
situation with gentle humour. »

You are like the little old man and woman
in the weather-glass,' she observed — 'one in,
t'other come out ! '

I feel as if I ought to scramble out altogether,'
he said.

I don't think there's any need ; you
haven't left much of yourself in the parlour,'
she replied smilingly.

About as much as he has left outside ! '

Presently Tregelva's head and shoulders
returned to their view as he drew back out of

L 2

his window, and sat down and lit a cigarette.
There was, however, evidently no breach of
peace between the lovers ; this was clear, not
only from his contented expression, but by
Eosemary's speedy re-appearance on the scene
with sun-hat and parasol, which she had gone
to fetch. Then the happy pair went wandering
away into the orange-grove, leaving Max and
Violet alone. He followed the diminishing
figures with his eyes as they vanished among
the trees.

Things seem changed here, somehow,' he
observed abruptly.

They are a good deal changed,' she
agreed ; and to herself she added that to her
things seemed changed, and changed a good
deal for the worse, even since yesterday. ' And
you don't like the change much, do you ? ' she
continued aloud, with gaiety a little forced.

'I? Of course I'm broken-hearted. That

goes without saying, doesn't it?' lie replied,
with his grimmest smile and sneer. ' Suppose
I shall be fished heels upwards out of the lake.
There seems no place for me here now.'

This was unkind of him, considering
Staples's sacrifice and Violet's welcome.

'I think there's room,' she said quietly.
Eosemary can drive a tandem.'

If the team don't kick,' he observed drily.

She generally has hers in pretty good
training,' Violet rejoined.

'Yes. Taught me to dance on my hind-legs,
didn't she ? '

You wouldn't dance on your /br^-paws,
would you ? '

He vouchsafed a slight smile, but seemed
on the whole far more in a mood of scowls
than smiles.

He proceeded to express his sentiments intones
of half-disdainful disapprobation.

I suppose it would be too much to expect
that a pack of men and girls should be shut up
together all the season without making fools of
themselves — at least, without the girls making
fools of the men !

This is a serious business — this with Tree
? ' he added, a note of interrogation in
his voice ; and Violet looked at him questioningly
in return, wondering how much he knew,
hesitating in doubt whether, if Eosemary had
not told him the position of affairs herself, she
would wish Violet to enter into the matter.

He read the hesitation and questioning
in her eyes, and, misinterpreting it, answered
with a sort of resentful and scornful reassurance
:

Oh, I'm not asking you to tell tales ! I
suppose you think I'm endeavouring to pry into
Eosemary's private affairs ? '

No, no,' she replied in quick and warm

protest, a little angered, but more hurt. ' How
can you speak so — think so ? And why are
you so cross ? ' she added with a gentler accent
of reproach. ' You never used to be ! '

Was I cross ? ' he said, softening. ' I
didn't mean to be — with you — ever ! But we
were saying just now, weren't we ? ' he added
more lightly, ' that things were changed all
round ? Perhaps my temper has changed
too?'

Well, I wish you wouldn't let it change
for the worse, theUj' she rejoined, soothed and
mollified, and slipping easily from serious into
playful protest.

Glad you think there could be a change
for the worse,' he answered. ' It shows that I
haven't been as bad as I might be.'

Not nearly as bad ; and now, please don't
begin experimentalising as to must how bad you
can be.'

If I did, it would only be to try just how-far
you would have patience.'

Please, don't,' she said, smiling, with a
pretty, trustful and reconciled air.

The momentary ruffle was quite smoothed
away ; they were the best of friends again ; but
all the rest of the day there was not one serious
word to be got out of Max Randolph ; he
turned everything to a jest — not so much mirthfully
as cynically ; he made sundry ironical
allusions to Tregelva's felicity and Eosemary's
all-puissant charms ; indeed, Eosemary played
almost as prominent a part in his conversation
as King Charles' Head in ' Mr. Dick's ' compositions.
Through his persistent chaff and
impenetrable levity it was impossible to get
any insight into his real mood and feeling —
at least impossible for Violet, with those soft,
dreamy, puzzled, shortsighted eyes of hers.

Staples, with an air of sulky self-effacement,

held aloof, wandered about by himself, and
looked on from a discreet distance at Max and
Violet, who kept together most of the time ;
although Max, not being in his most amiable
mood, was far from the most satisfactory of
companions : his raillery was too biting, his
pleasantry partook rather of grim irony than of
honest mirth.

Violet, however, habitually good tempered,
accepted and entered into his mood, rallying
him playfully, and answering him with banter
light as his own, if less bitter. Being as softhearted
as she was sweet-tempered, and mentally
shortsighted, she felt a little qualm of
conscience in the contemplation of Staples in
his attitude of holding aloof from the world ;
there seemed to her something forlorn in his
aspect which appealed to her sympathies — a
disconsolate expression even in the back of his
shoulders, as he wandered about the house and

grounds like an unquiet spirit in voluntary-exile.
She took an opportunity of waylaying
him under an orange-tree beside the gate as he
was going out.

Going off all by yourself ? ' she began
sweetly.

Yes.'

For a walk ? '

No ; to work — to put up the fence.'

What an industrious boy you have turned
out ! '

There's nothing for me to do but work,' he
said moodily.

'There are plenty of other things, but
perhaps it's the best thing you can do,'
replied Violet virtuously, in her character of
monitor.

Yes, I'm going to work,' he said, with an
air of gloomy recklessness which would have
better befitted a declaration that he was going

to do some dark and desperate deed. He paused
a minute, and then added —

'It's just the way it always is. Of course
I might have known — I never was lucky yet.
Of course it's just my luck.'

I don't understand,' said Violet, a little
guiltily.

Nor do I exactly,' he answered candidly,
but I can see enough. There's wheels within

o

wheels with that Yankee fellow and you two
girls ! '

Violet was fairly startled. Had he, of all
men — he, the clumsy, the ignorant, the obtuse
and uncultivated — had he guessed what wiser,
brighter, more experienced than he had never
suspected ?

She was so completely taken aback and at
a loss for an answer that she hastily pitched
upon one careless word in his sentence to join
issue upon.

How many times must I tell you that Mr.
Randolph is not a Yankee ? '

I don't care what he is,' said Staples,
with a mulish and morose expression. ' I
only know I wish he'd stayed on the Gulf
Coast ! '

I am sure he might just as well ; and I
don't think it would matter very much if you
were there too ! ' she retorted, suddenly and
unreasonably cross ; though the next moment,
ashamed of her causeless petulance, she turned
it off into a laugh, and professed she had only
been in fun.

The ' galled jade ' must wince ; and to the
most amiable of women it is galling to be suspected
of a flirtation or special understanding
with a man who behaves to her only as a friend
and comrade, Awhile she is only too conscious
that the warmer feeling is on her side. To be
supposed to be enjoying that special attention

of which you yearn in vain to be the
object, is to enter vividly then, if never before,
into the feelings of Tantalus. The very supposition
presents the tempting cup so near to
the hips, which yet it does not touch !

Unreasonable, however, it was to be angry
with poor Staples for presenting to her as a
probability in his mind that which was only a
faint, far, dream-ike possibility — she dared, not
admit it to be even a hope — in hers. She could
not but see that the provocation was entirely
unconscious and unintentional ; she felt that
she had administered a moral slap in the face
to Staples on entirely insufficient grounds, and
endeavoured to make the amende by laughing
the matter off, and by joining him in his walk
as far as the spot which was to be the scene
of his achievements in rail-splitting and fence-making
; she even lingered sociably with him
until he had got his tools about, and then took

her leave, with a smiling remark that she would
not stay to interfere with his work.

If she had known that Max Randolph's eye
had been on her as she talked with Staples
by the gate, and walked with him towards the
fence, Staples might have gone to his work
alone, and borne his wounded feelings with
him unsoothed. As it was, Max Randolph
enjoyed another taste of the sensation of being
left to himself and to the not very congenial
companionship of Chadwick and Conyers ;
while Eosemary bestowed her society with
orthodox exclusiveness upon her legitimately
plighted lover, and Violet devoted herself to
the conscientious office of mending the breach
her pettish words had made in Staples' feelings.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

'OUR THREE DAYS' LOVE LIES SLAIN.'

So the day wore away ; and if Violet felt
vaguely that her sky had clouded over since
yesterday, Staples was quite of the same mind.
Her smiles might tend to the soothing of his
ruffled feelings, but could not restore his content
of heart, nor remove the sullen and suspicious
sense of jealous dissatisfaction which
had taken possession of him when he saw her
face light up with that radiant look of welcome
at the sight of Max Randolph.

And this latter, on his part, though Staples
had not the comfort of knowing it, was reaping
even as he sowed, finding himself second where

he had been first. Even the pleasant impression
of Violet's warm welcome and evident
gladness at his return yesterday was marred
by her walking off tete-astute with Staples
to-day.

In the evening, Violet had a long letter to
write home, or rather to her relatives in New
York ; and as it was not easy to write fluently
in the parlour with the babble of voices on the
piazza outside sounding clear through the open
window, to say nothing of the momentary probability
of an inroad of some of the party on
music bent, she always transacted her correspondence
in her own room upstairs.

This evening her pen did not run over the
paper as swiftly as it usually did. Every now
and then she found her mind wandering from
her letter — turning, as the needle to the pole,
to one of whom she thought a great deal
more than was good for her. She wondered

what were Ms feelings on finding Eosemary engaged
to Tregelva. His chronic reserve under
apparent frankness, that ironical levity which
might cover depths or shallows, left her here
a wide field for conjecture. She did not think
of attributing to him any curiosity with regard
to herself and Staples. She knew only too
well how much she thought and speculated
about Max ; but it did not occur to her that
he might return the compliment in kind.

Her wandering thoughts distracted her a
good deal from her letter, but it was finished
at last. She wanted to enclose a cutting from
a Florida newspaper for her grandfather's
perusal. When she looked for the paper she
found it was not in her room ; then she remembered
that Mr. Wentworth had had it,
and that she had seen it that afternoon on
the table in his study. She ran downstairs
to fetch it. The study door was partly open ;

VOL. III. M

it was, indeed, an uncommon occurrence for
the Whitworths to shut a door. There was
no lamp there, so the room was dark, except
for the pale, broad bar of moonlight which
lay across the floor, faint and dimly white, only
a shadow of the usual effulgence of Southern
moonshine, as the night was overcast with
grey and sombre clouds, through which the
pallid silver gleam of the moon could only
now and then struggle out.

Yiolet crossed the room cautiously, in fear
of stumbling over a footstool or a chair, and
began groping over the table in the deep patch
of shadow between the windows, on which she
remembered seeing the newspaper she wanted.

While she was feeling for it among the
scattered books that lay there disorderly, she
heard a well-known voice — a trifle lowered
and deepened from its ordinary tone, never
stentorian at its loudest — say, with a sort of
tender brusqueness.

Well, just for one last time, Eosemary ? '
She turned with a shrinking start, and casta
glance out of the window through which the
voice had come to her ear. The study was at
the back of the house ; she had supposed all
the household to be gathered together, as usual,
on the south piazza, or in the parlour. But
here, in the pale dusk of the shadowed east
piazza, outside the study windows, she saw, as
she made an involuntary step towards them,
the two familiar figures whose very shadows
her eyes could have recognised even without
the clue of a name or a voice.

In the darkness of the room she stood
unseen ; her foot was light, her dress of some
soft clinging material, so that no creak of step
nor rustle of silk had revealed her presence to
disturb the pair outside the window. They
were standing close, close together ; their two
forms cast but one shadow as Max Randolph's

M2

arm slid round Eosemary's waist and drew her
to his side.

Did she raise her face to his ? No : it was his
hand that caressed her hair and upturned her
face to meet his kiss ; but she yielded unresisting,
and even willingly, to the caress.

Violet looked but for a moment — one
instinctive, almost involuntary, glance — and
drew back as if some unseen hand had struck
her a blow. Mingled with the quick shrinking
of dismay at discovering herself looking, if only
for a moment, on what she was not meant to
see — hearing, if only by accident, words she was
not meant to hear — was an unreasonable dart
of sharp and stinging pain.

She seized the newspaper which she had
come to fetch, and hurried upstairs, back to
her room. She threw the paper down, and by
a sudden unreasoning impulse pressed her handover
her eyes, as if she could shut out, blot out,

the scene already so vividly imaged there.
Yet still she saw the picture grow out of the
darkness, of Max Randolph holding Eosemary
in his arms, to his heart, kissing Eosemary's
lips, her face, so white and lovely in the pale
moonlight, upturned to his.

Oh, rash, reckless Eosemary ! What if it had
been Tregelva, instead of Violet, whom a malicious
fate led that way ? Might not then the
ancestral home of the Tregelvas have melted
away like a mirage from out of your fair
prospects? your future, like fairy gold, have
turned to withered leaves in your hand ?

Tregelva would have had a right to be
astonished at that tableau on the east piazza
if it had been presented to his eyes ; but Violet,
having known Eosemary — known her through
and through for so many years of close intimacy
— had no such right. It was not reasonable
that she should feel surprise; and certainly

she oiiglit to have had more sense than to have
winced under the sight of Eosemary's vouchsafing
a farewell kiss to a former lover.

Perhaps, however, it was less that Rosemary
should have given than that he should
have taken, that parting kiss! But however it
might be, Violet had certainly neither right
nor reason to take the matter so deeply to
heart. She ought to have remembered how
placidly Eosemary had accepted her confidence
concerning the night that Max had kissed Iter
on their way home from the forest-fire.

She did not just now remember that, nor
anything else, indeed, except that the sight had
hurt her — hurt her like a stab.

She had thought, hoped, it was all over
between Max and Eosemary ; and now ! Blinded
by feeling, her emotions rising and overflowing
and drowning her intelligence — as, with her
temperament, mere emotional impulses are so

apt to do — that kiss assumed to her the form
of convincing evidence that all was not over,
that Rosemary held his heart still fast in the
hollow of that firm white hand, which, as Violet
knew well, no outer influences could move to
unloose its grip. This was, of course, possible,
and, indeed, a not unnatural interpretation of
the scene. On the other hand, it was equally
possible and natural that that kiss might laye
been indeed in farewell — a mere tribute to the
memory of a past romance —

Where, crushed by three days' pressure,
A three days' love lies slain !

while Eosemary, for her part, might argue
that her engagement to Tregelva precluded
misunderstanding or misinterpretation, and that
she might safely grant one token of gentle
remembrance of a vanished dream — drop one
flower on the coffin before they closed the
grave in a final farewell.

Yet, although she belonged to that class of
temperament in which the feelings run away
with the judgment, the heart with the head,
Violet still had sense enough to perceive, as
soon as the first shock of tingling pain was
over, that she was making too much of this
episode, although she did not realise what a
molehill it was that she was allowing to cast
the shadow of a mountain over her. She felt
bitterly ashamed of herself that she had, even
by chance and for a moment, played the part
of eavesdropper, and blushed even in the solitude
of her room as she wondered — how could
she tell Eosemary of what she had overheard
and seen !

Presently she heard Tregelva's step cross
the corridor from his room and descend the
stairs. In a wooden and scantily carpeted
house, all footsteps, especially masculine ones,
are audible, not to say noisy; and Violet

and Rosemary knew every man's step in the
house without needing a voice to guide their
recognition. Yiolet wondered, would Tregelva
break in, as she had done, upon a touching
crisis ? She thought not.

Eosemary was too wide awake to run such
a risk, and had probably assured herself of
Tregelva's being safely upstairs before she ventured
upc n giving tryst to Max Randolph.

When Violet went downstairs she found
the house party, as usual, assembled on the
south piazza — so much as usual that it almost
seemed to her as if that meeting on the east
piazza must have been a dream. For there sat
Eosemary by Tregelva's side, listening with the
sweetest and brightest responsiveness to a tale
of Ascot, the year that Lord George Bellamy
rode Coeur dacier. There, on one side of the
entrance doorway, was Chadwick making himself
agreeable to Mrs. Wentworth, and on the

other Mr. Wentworth holding forth on the
subject of the Saratoga land-frauds to Randolph
and Conyers, who were as good listeners as
two waxen dummies would have proved — Max
being evidently in the mood laconic, at least
as far as his male friends were concerned,
while Conyers' usual taciturnity was enhanced
by chronic despondency, arising partly from
nostalgia, partly from an empty purse, and
perhaps partly from the thought of the 
of his far-off girl — as nobody knew
her name, they all habitually spoke of the
unknown object of his devotion as ' Conyers'
girl.'

Staples was seated lowly and apart on the
steps, his back unsociably turned to the rest of
the company.

Violet took a chair on Mrs. Wentworth's
side of the piazza, but a little apart from that
lady, who was busy giving Chadwick good

advice. A vacant seat was on Violet's other
hand ; and before very long Max Randolph
steered his course towards this.

May I sit here ? ' he asked, with that air of
deference which seldom failed to please women
in general and Violet in particular.

If you like,' she replied with nonchalance.

I do like,' he said, availing himself of her
permission. ' You are one of the women whose
presence is restful — there's a sort of soothing
magnetism about you, Miss Violet,' he continued,
reposing his head comfortably against
the back of the chair. ' Woman's influence ' —
he pursued his subject at leisure — ' is of two
qualities — the opposite poles '

And mine is the negative,' she interposed,
the soporific influence. Thank you ! I trust I
may act as a satisfactory opiate.'

There was a distinct vein of tartness in her
tone, which surprised and rather puzzled Max.

It was really the first time that he had ever
known Violet captiously ready to take offence,
or her sweet temper ruffled by ever so slight a
breeze of petulance.

You seem to think it's a poor compliment
to say that yours is an atmosphere of peace
he said. ' I speak as I find. I have always
found it so — but perhaps you would prefer an
atmosphere of storm ? '

It would at least, I should think, be an
agreeable change,' she replied, still with a little
touch of asperity.

We have never quarrelled, have we ? ' he
said musingly.

It is never too late to mend,' she rejoined,
the natural ease and playfulness returning to
her manner, for it was most unnatural, and
indeed impossible, for her to be vexed with
him for long; 'and perhaps it would break
the monotony if we did.'

Do you think it wants breaking ? ' he
asked.

'Some people tire of tranquil seas and
sunny skies,' she said.

Some people — yes,' he replied, with an
expression of superiority to those misguided
mortals. ' Are you tired of the monotony of
our peace, Miss Yiolet ? '

No ; I like peace — / am not tired of it.'
Nor of me ? ' he inquired, bending a little
nearer to her.

No,' she said, with a sweet glance of gentle
coquetry — sweeter than usual to make amends
for her late asperity. ' Not quite yet.'
I don't bore you ? ' he continued.
If it won't make you too vain, I will own
that you don't.' She spoke buoyantly, but
her heart was heavy ; in her mind's eye she
still saw those two figures clasped together in
the shadowed moonlight on the east piazza.

Yet she felt she must be bright and pleasant
with Max ; he must never, never dream that
she had seen them ; he must not think that
word or mood of his could cloud her spirits or
ruffle her tranquillity.

Always glad to see me, aren't you ? ' he
said, in that half-sardonic tone which was open
to the interpretation that he meant the very
reverse of what he said.

'When you're nice,' she replied, smiling,
but shrinking back into herself with a sensitive
feeling of reserve.

I was " nice " yesterday then ? ' he rejoined.
' You were glad to see me yesterday,
though I am not quite so sure about to-day ! '

One can't go on singing " Jubilate ! " '
she said lightly, adding with playful magniloquence,
' I deem it fitting to restrain the
ebullitions of my joy and keep it bridled within
bounds.'

It must be a hard task,' he observed drily.

And they touched no further that evening
on such delicate ground as their mutual and
personal feelings and relations.

Violet recoiled with a sensitive shrinking
from any nearer approach to sentiment or
personality — guided the conversation to more
general matters. His allusion to her gladness
at his return had made her wince. Had ske
betrayed it too openly? she wondered. Had
she been in error in deeming that in her
very frankness lay her best safety from detection
?

It did not occur to her that if she had
unwittingly betrayed her real feelings for him
that was the last allusion Max Randolph would
have made.

Knowing him so little, beneath the surface,
as she did, with all their long and friendly
familiarity, she wondered whether he could

have guessed whether her little feminine
screens and ruses might not prove flimsy as
spider's web and transparent as glass, to his
keen, subtle, piercing eyes ? What if those eyes
could look into her very heart, and read it
through and through? She did not fear his
despising her ; she knew him, by instinct
rather than by discrimination or study of
character, just well enough for that. But the
idea had flashed into her mind as a question,
when he spoke of her yesterday's gladness of
greeting — was it possible that he guessed her
weakness? was he, to distract his mind from
dwelling on Eosemary, diverting himself by
playing with her feelings? She thrust the
idea away from her, refused to dwell on it or
harbour it, banished it with shuddering recoil
and anger; but it had passed through her
mind and left its trace.

CHAPTEE XXX.

The next morning, Eosemary suggested that it
was time they should begin to pack, or at least
to clear out their trunks and set their wardrobes
in order, ready for packing. Violet
agreed; but when she set to work at her
Saratoga trunk, she felt the occupation about
as cheerful as the driving of nails into her
own coffin. She had not the slightest dream
of any possible good to be gained by staying
on at West Grove House ; and yet she felt
a deep-rooted reluctance to leave it, an altogether
unreasonable reluctance, considering the
nightly visitation of the mosquitoes, and the

VOL. III. N

daily plague of flies and swarms of gnats, and
the fierce heat and blaze of the tropical sun.
In spite of all these drawbacks, although the
season had come when all who could fly were
flying from Florida, Violet could not bear the
thought of leaving West Grove House, where
she had spent a season on the whole so happy,
marred by only one unpleasant episode. She
hated that sense of parting, severance, general
breaking-up, which now began to pervade the
atmosphere. She felt as if this was an end,
a crisis, a closing of one volume of life and
opening of another, and she did not like the
feeling.

Eosemary, on the other hand, was in high
spirits. Her plans and prospects were completely
changed, and all for the better, by her
engagement to Tregelva. Instead of being left,
for her sins, to mourn in sackcloth and ashes
in the dreary exile of Pine Eidge for all the

weary summer long, she was only to stay therefor
a short time, to talk over her engagement
and her plans matrimonial, which had, of
course, already been imparted by letter to her
family circle. And Tregelva was going to
Pine Eidge on a visit, to be presented to his
future parents-inlaw. After an undetermined
period devoted to filial duties — a period which,
however, Eosemary had made up her mind
should not be very long — she was to go north,
join the Preston for the voyage across the
Atlantic, and spend the summer with Violet
in London. Oh, joyful prospect ! Theatres,
operas, balls, soirees, and fetes, danced before
Eosemary's eyes in brilliant kaleidoscopic confusion.
If the Tregelvas came to town for
the season, there and then she was to be introduced
to her future family ; if not, she was to
visit them in Cornwall.

It was proposed that, now that Eosemary

N 2

was ^ homeward bound ' as well as Violet, the
two girls should make the whole journey
together ; therefore, that Violet should accompany
Rosemary on her visit to Pine Eidge,
and thence travel to New York with her to join
the Preston, who would await them there for
the voyage.

At the hour when the mail was due the
girls left their packing and went downstairs ;
it was a regular habit at West Grove House
for all the inmates to foregather at the mail
hour, except, indeed, Mr. and Mrs. Whit worth
the busy bees of the hive — who had, in their
different departments — the out-of-doors and
the in-doors — too much to attend to in the
precious morning hours to waste their time
lounging on the piazza and waiting for the
mail. This day Chadwick had gone to fetch
it. In these declining days of a diminished
party he did not take the big bag, but brought

the mail in his breast-pocket. He announced
on his return that it was only a light one —
half a dozen letters. He gave Violet and Rosemary
a newspaper apiece on the piazza, and
passed on into the smoking-room, where the
rest of the young men, as usual, congregated
for the social distribution of the morning's
mail.

While the girls were unfolding their newspapers
and looking for marked passages therein
scored by obliging friends to save them the
trouble of reading the papers through — they
became conscious of a little stir of excitement
inside the smoking-room, and caught snatches
of the vigorous and original expletives in Staples'
voice, which denoted warm interest on his part.
He was gifted with great facility for new and
ingenious combinations of irreverent expressions
whereby to give vent to his feelings when
moved; and evidently something had moved

him now. Tregelva's equable voice was heard
to observe —

" It's an ill-wind that blows nobody-goods"'


Then came Conyers' terse comment —
Wonder they didn't cable I '
And Tregelva's answering remark —
No ; it's only zYZ-news that flies fast.'
What's up in there, I wonder ? ' said Violet
sotto voce.

'Apparently Staples is the hero of the
occasion,' said Eosemary, turning her head
towards the smoking-room window, with more
interest than she generally manifested in Archibald
St. Julian, who was just then heard to
respond to some observation with a touch of
disapprobation in his tone —

You don't suppose I'm glad the poor little

beggars are dead? They were jolly little

f
fellows.'

Then, in a few moments, they heard his
footsteps across the hall and up the stairs ; and
Tregelva, who loved a piece of news as much
as a woman, came out on the piazza, full of his
report.

Here's old Staples gone up into the peerage
at a bound ! He's got a lawyer's letter telling
him his two cousins have died of diphtheria
within a day of each other, poor little chaps !
It appears it broke out in the school, and these
two boys were the first to go off. So he's the
Earl of Kilvastone to-day.'

The Earl of Kilvastone did not appear
inclined to flaunt his new honours in the face
of the company; he did not make his appearance
downstairs again until the midday
dinner-time, and then came to the table with
that air of reserve which always produced on
his countenance the effect of a sulky, not to
say morose, expression; although, to do him

justice, his looks really belied his temper. He
was evidently not in a mood to be congratulated,
nor inclined to enter into conversation on the
matter of the important news ; and everyone
had sufficient tact and delicacy to respect his
reserve. But if the subject of his accession
to the earldom was discreetly let alone before
his face, discussion thereon — especially in the
smoking-room — ran rife behind his back ;
various possible future results and developments
being significantly touched upon, although
prudence restrained his friends from entering
upon them fully in the semi-publicity of this
resort. And Max Randolph heard it all, took
it all in, without exhibiting any particular
interest in the matter. Tregelva, with amiable
consideration for Randolph's presumed ignorance
of the laws and regulations of inheritance of
titles and estates, treated him to a little dissertation
on these subjects, and related the

twice-told tale of Staples having been always
regarded, and brought up to regard himself, as
the heir of his uncle the old earl, until, late in
life, the latter married, leaving at his death, a
few years afterwards, two sons — the little earl
and his young brother — through whose sudden
deaths Staples now inherited.

The afternoon wore away, and Staples
came out of his shell a little — a very little wg-y
being evidently ready and prepared to retire
into it again on the smallest provocation. His
joining the social party on the piazza before
supper was reasonably ' taken as a sign ' that
he was beginning to get accustomed to his
new position. 'He bore his honours meekly '
rather reluctantly than complacently ; manifesting
a disposition to shy away from allusions
to his aggrandisement, and responding the first
time he was addressed as ' Lord Kilvastone,' by
a deprecating and almost discomfited —

Oh, come — I say now ! '

Staples had been pronounced by phrenologists
to possess, amongst other good moral
organs, a fine bump of conscientiousness ; and
the development of this sometimes inconvenient
organ made him feel it so revolting to admit
even to himself that he could rejoice at the
deaths of two unoffending children, whom he
had rather liked than not, that he hardened
himself in an attitude of stubborn resistance
to the bright hopes and dreams and ambitions
which came knocking at his door in throngs.
Only to Violet, finding himself with her, apart
from the rest, for a few pleasant moments, he
unburdened his mind by a few confidential
words.

This is a regular turning upside down, a
sort of a transformation scene, for me. I never
dreamt of such a thing. I thought the boys 'ud
grow up and have half a dozen sons apiece.

They were fine little fellows, especially the
eldest — young Fergus. Gives one a kind of a
creepy feeling to think of both those boys being
dead and gone, all in a day ! '

Violet was sweet and sympathetic ; and
although she said but little, words were not
needed. Staples' instincts were as quick as his
learning was limited — which is saying a good
deal ; and he felt that she understood him. He
hated to express himself, yet secretly yearned to
be understood ; and the sense that Violet comprehended
his feelings was eminently soothing
and satisfactory. Eosemary also regarded him
more amicably, made herself more agreeable to
him, than was her wont. She loved herself
best in the world ; but next to herself she
loved Violet. She had always a ready eye for
the main chance, on Violet's behalf as well asher
own ; and she perceived with surprise, and
vexed impatience at Vi's unworldliness, and

yet with a faint glimmer of reluctantly admiring
tenderness for it too, that Violet's thoughts,
hopes, and dreams were absorbed and centred
in Max Randolph ; she was thinking so much
of him that her preoccupied mind was not free
to contemplate the possibilities which Rosemary's
cool, and for once unselfishly sanguine,
eyes saw unfolding from this day's news.

It might have been better if the girls had
talked over the position of things fully and
freely at this time, with their habitual plain
confidential speaking ; but they happened to
be very little alone this day, as they found the
general company, with its particular component
parts, too interesting at the present juncture for
them to spend any more time in the seclusion
of their own room than the cares of the toilet
necessitated. There was always plenty of time
to talk at night, they knew ; and saw no reason
to expend upon any exhaustive private conversations

during the day the time which they
might more profitably bestow on the society of
their fellow-creatures.

Supper-time arrived and passed ; and in the
evening the betrothed pair made a little innovation
on the time-honoured institution of the
social piazza lounge, by setting off for a moonlight
ramble through the wood. Max suggested
to Yiolet that this was a good example
to follow, and she was nothing loth. The two
pairs, it need hardly be said, did not join
forces, but strolled apart — discreetly far apart,
out of sight of each other. The affianced
couple talked of their own personal affairs, and
played characteristic variations on the old, old
tune ; the non affianced couple bestowed their
attention, at least at first, on topics more
general and less personal. They looked at the
stars, and at the halo round the moon, and
made astronomical and meteorological remarks

; then came down to mundane things —
talked of the approaching northward migration,
of the probabilities of Chad wick's people
sending him money to go home, of the hard
case of poor Conyers, left in pledge.

Wonder if his girl will get tired of waiting
for him,' said Max.

Let us hope she thinks he's worth waiting
for,' observed Violet.

No accounting for tastes, is there ? ' he
rejoined.

Fortunately. There's someone to please
every taste — someone to admire every style,
she said.

He laughed.

That's rather too optimist a view, even for
you, who always look on the best side. You
haven't Eosemary's fine faculty of finding out
the worm in the bud.'

Max never could keep off the subject of
Eosemary for long. If his conversation were

a guide to his thoughts, they turned towards
Eosemary, as the magnetic needle to the
north ; and this was not lost upon Violet.

'There's Tregelva thinks himself a lucky
fellow Max presently observed.

He is fortunate,' Violet averred staunchly.

You are loyal,' he said. ' You're a good
friend, Miss Violet. I am glad to have had
your friendship.' ^

He drew her hand through his arm, and
they walked on for a few steps in silence ;
then he said meditatively :

We have been good friends always,
haven't we ? '

'Yes,' she answered gently, ' always.'

I hope,' he replied, ' we always shall be.'

There was another silence — a longer one ;
it was he who broke it.

Seems as if there was something in the
air to-night — something ' — he hesitated before
he added With a half laugh — ' catching ! '

Catching ! Not fever, I hope she responded
lightly.

Fever ? Well, I don't know what some
people would call it.'

He paused again, and then resumed somewhat
abruptly —

'The time's running short now — if there's
anything one has to say, why not say it at
once ? We have always been good friends :
why should we not be something more than
friends? Violet, what would you say if — if
I were to ask you to be my wife ? '

Her heart gave a wildly startled leap, as a
thrill shot through her whole being of mingled
pain and delight. If she had been assured of
his love for her it would have a throb of pure
joy. But the fear, rather than the wish, was
father to the thought with her. Her fear that
his love was Eosemary's still was strengthened
almost to conviction by that Interview between

them, of which she had been an involuntary
witness the night before.

Had it not been for this persuasion — for
the flash of apprehension that he merely
turned to her in pique, in the rebound of
wounded pride, perhaps even in the knowledge
of her feelings for him — had she only
regarded the possibility of his loving her as
something more than a dream, too shadowy,
and visionary to be a hope, what words could
have seemed sweeter, better chosen, than those
he uttered, — ' Be my wife ! '

All the sense of the tenderness and sacredness
of union would have swelled her heart
with rapture, could she but have felt that he
asked her to be his wife for love's sake alone !
But as it was, the keen quiver of doubt and
hope which thrilled her at those words was
sharpened by the stinging sense of the omission
of a word sweeter still.

VOL. III. o

Why had he not said, ' Violet, I love you ' ?
Ill her morbidly sensitive mood, that omission
seemed marked, intentional. Had he but said
those words— had his tone conveyed their
truth — how all the world would have been
transfigured to her !

As it was, all the doubts, the fears, the
passion of jealous persuasion that it was
Eosemary whom he loved — the shrinking
dread of wounded maiden pride, that he might
have guessed her secret and made this offer
in honourable kindliness on that account — all
weighed cold and heavy on her heart, and
stifled the responsive impulse of love and joy
that first leapt and thrilled in answer to his
words, and froze her tone as she replied —

Why do you ask me that ? '

He retorted by another question.

Why does a man generally ask a woman
to marry him ? Do you think you could be
happy with me, Violet ? '

Still that fatal bitterness of jealous suspicion
and fear of having betrayed herself possessed
her ; and on the impulse of that strange and
mad perversity which springs from such conflict
of feeling in a woman's heart, she answered —

'No!'

You are frank at least,' he said, with an
accent of reluctant and half-resentful appreciation
; ' there is no shilly-shallying with you —
now ! ' If there was a significance in this last
emphasised syllable, she failed to understand
it aright.

Well,' he continued, ' I hope you will be
happy with the man of your choice — happy as
I, no doubt, sliou^i? have failed to make you ! '
There was a perceptible trace of bitterness in
his tone ; and if he had only stopped on those
words, the interview might have taken a very
different turn, but he unluckily went on to
say—



No doubt your answer is wise and right ;
you have decided for the best.'

For both of us, no doubt she rejoined
quickly.

Yes ; I do not question your wisdom in
judging for us both.'

Why, then — why did you ask me — that —
if you thought it would be wisest — best — for
both — for me to answer, so ? ' she asked
brokenly, as her breath came short, but fighting
valiantly, and successfully, to preserve her
equanimity of tone, so that no betraying ring
of passion led him to suspect her real feelings.

Because I was a fool,' he said brusquely.
Let us forget my folly. But first, Violet, see :
tell me one thing. Would you have answered
my question differently if I had asked you —
last night ? '

She started at the words.

Only one interpretation of this question

occurred to her. He was cognisant of her
having witnessed his parting interview with
Eosemary !

He thought her jealous. Perhaps his idea
might be to solace his hurt pride for the
failure of his advances to Eosemary, by wooing
where he deemed himself so sure of acceptance !

The truth always naturally sprang to
Violet's hips. A truth, or part of a truth, may
sometimes chance to mislead as dangerously asa
lie ; but Violet never dreamt that she might
be misleading him when she answered, truly,
to his question whether she would have given
him a different answer had his proposal been
made a day earlier —

I— I might ! '

'You are true in this at least,* he said,
with the same hint of reluctant admiration and
yet resentment in his tone.

In what have I been untrue ? How have

I ever deceived you ? ' lie asked, lifting her
head.

'I deceived myself! If I thought I had
found in you something purer, truer, less
worldly than other women — something above
their paltry, shallow, unworthy pride — it was
I who deceived myself. You are like the rest ! '
he said, with a sort of lofty scorn — as of a
thing too frail for blame or wrath.

Violet made no answer : to utter even a
word would, indeed, have been a physical impossibility
to her at that moment. A sudden
rush of burning tears, a choking sob swelling
in her throat, held her dumb.

If it had been daylight he must have seen
the passion of emotion that shook her at his
words. The scorn in his accents struck her
like a lash. Under the bitter blow of his misapprehension
she shrank and writhed as if a
cruel scourge had fallen on her bare nerves.

Her mouth was quivering, her breast heaving
with the stifled sob.

If he could only have seen ! But the
shadows of the wood were deep, and the
moon —

Oh cold pale moon ! thou cruel pale moon,
That night hadst never the grace —

to send a revealing ray on her pale and agitated
features. He interpreted her silence to mean
that she pleaded guilty to the worldly motives
he was attributing to her.

'Well, I suppose it's good-bye between us,'
he said. ' I shall leave West Grove House tomorrow.
Probably our lines in the future will
lie far apart ; and while I remain here, I need
not assure you that you need be under no
apprehension of any repetition of the mistake
I have made to-night.'

Still Violet was incapable of making any
answer. Her head was bent down, her face in

shadow, convulsed with tears. Her heart
seemed bursting with the rising sobs which
half-suffocated her as she struggled with all the
power of her will to keep them back. If she
uttered but one word she knew it must mean
an ignominious breakdown.

Whatever interpretation he placed upon
her continued silence, it was certainly far off,
hopelessly out of sight, from the true one. He
walked on by her side, in silence toO' — haughty
and offended silence it was on his part ; while
she strove for self-mastery, yet felt that if he
spoke again she must answer, and if she were
forced to speak, the sob would refuse to be
any longer controlled. She could not bear
the shame of breaking into tears before him.
If she could only get away — away from him !
Then she heard with dismay the voices of
Chadwick and Conyers approaching through
the trees. She could not, could not, meet them

now and join in conversation. It was impossible
!

An idea shot into her mind on the impulse
of the moment. She knew they must now be
close to a narrow track which branched off
through the wood, and led by a short-cut
across the grove to the house. Yes, there was
the little path — a just dimly perceptible opening
in the bush. She would fall behind for ^
moment, and turn quickly down this track,
regardless of appearances, and get away, fly
from him, hide herself away !

She carried out this idea, but of course
did not succeed in doing so unobserved. He
looked round as she lingered behind him, saw
her movement, and naturally argued that she
would not make a dart down a side-path
barely wide enough for one if she desired
his company. Yet he scrupled at allowing her
to pass through the grove alone without at

least offering his escort. He made a step after
her.

You wish to return home ? Shall I accompany
you ? ' he said with more formal
courtesy than he had ever before used to
her.

She managed to command her voice sufficiently
to articulate just one syllable —
'No.'

And the stifled tone of pain he mistook for
resentment.

As you wish,' he said stiffly, and let her
pass on her hurried way. If he were aggrieved
and offended, he considered, however, that he
had no right to be surprised. Women were
unreasonable, and took miffs and fancies, and
Violet was merely turning out like the rest.
Like many of his sex, he started from the
assumption that women were unreasonable,
and went on the simple principle of setting

down anything he did not understand in them
to this deficiency of the sex.

Meanwhile Violet reached the house and
got to her room in safety and unnoticed, and
there she threw herself down on her bed, and
the tears and sobs had their way ; there Rosemary
presently found her, with her aching and
dishevelled head buried in the pillows, her eyes

Near washed away with weeping ! ,

What a nuisance that man is ! ' said Rosemary,
instantly hitting the right nail on the
head.

He's' always upsetting you ! What's he
been doing now ? '

It — it wasn't his fault,' replied Violet, half
sobbing still. ' It — it was all mine ! '

What have you been up to then ? ' asked
Eosemary, brusquely but not unsympathetically.
Come, come, my Vi, sit up and tell me all
about it. Why, my poor darling, your eyes

are like boiled gooseberries ! There, don't cry
any more : tell me what's wrong ! ' and she
rested Violet's throbbing head on her shoulder
and smoothed the ruffled hair caressingly, and
Violet told her tale. She knew that she and
Max had, somehow, mutually misunderstood
each other at the very time when their understanding
should have been one of the best, and
clashed in discord where they should have
been most in harmony ; but she did not at
all comprehend the misconception on his side.
As a soldier in the thick of the fight cannot seethe
battle for the smoke, Violet could not see,
through the thick fog of misinterpretation in
which she felt lost, how it was things had fallen
out so untowardly.

She was conscious that she had been to
blame, yet could not see how far they might
both have gone astray — how he as well as she
might have been misled.

But Eosemary's quicker intelligence, self-possessed
and clear, leapt on to the track at
once.

Of course lie set to abusing women,' she
said consolingly ; 'men always do if anything
goes crossways with them. Don't worry yourself
about that. It's very likely he may have
some idea in his head about Staples.'

Staples ? ' echoed Violet, lifting her pale,
tearful face in puzzled surprise.

Oh, Vi I you are too soft a little goose for
this world. Do open your shortsighted eyes
and see that the Earl of Kilvastone is a better
match than Staples would have been — that of
course Max knows that — that last night the
news had not arrived, and that Max, as well as
the rest of the world, can see that you've
a very good chance of being Countess of
Kilvastone, if you'd only play your cards
well ! '

Do you think that could have been what
he meant ? ' exclaimed Violet. ' But, Eose, I
care more for him than for all the Earls in the
United Kingdom ! '

Then why did you say " No '* to him, you
little donkey ? ' Eosemary justly retorted.
There, don't look like Niobe, all tears ; you've
cried enough to make yourself ill ; and really
there's nothing to take on so desperately
about; there's no harm done that can't be
undone. Manage another interview, and make
him speak again, and then have your wits
about you ! '

But Violet shook her head despond ingle —

I feel as if it was all, all over. I feel it
here' she pressed her hand upon her heart.
'He is gone from me — gone — and gone in
anger ! '

CHAPTEE XXXI.

HAND TO HAND.

When the household assembled the next
morning at the breakfast-table, Violet, in spite,
of an almost sleepless night, managed by dint
of lavish bathing of her tear-stained eyes, and
that control of feature and expression which
seldom — except in such crises as that of the
previous evening — fails any true daughter of
Eve, to present much her usual appearance. As
to Max Randolph, he, of course, looked quite
as usual, and seemed to have an excellent
appetite for his breakfast ; it might have been
her imagination that his ' Good-morning, Mis
Violet ! ' had a shade more formality in it than

208 LOVE IN IDLENESS

his habitual tone to her. Mr. Wentworth,
who seldom came in time for the beginning
of a meal, entered in the middle of the breakfast,
with an air of bustling interest, and evidently
a budget of news to unfold.

'I suppose you girls don't generally go
far afield without escort ? ' he began with an
air of significant jocularity. ' Because I
wouldn't go wandering about far beyond the
grounds to-day, alone, if I were you. John
Eoss has just been in, and brought the news
that there have been fine doings down at
Giralda. It appears there was a row outside
the bar, and the sheriff rode up, and a drunken
nigger shot at him and wounded him badly.
That made the citizens mad ; and they just
rose up in a body, and went through Nigger-town
and ran out the niggers. It was a
regular slum, you know — that '• Black Quarter "
of Giralda. Well, Boss says they've been

through it pretty thoroughly — raided all the
worst houses and run the black fellows out,
and gave them a broad hint not to show their
faces there again ; and so they got on the
train for Osceola. But the Giralda people
telegraphed to Osceola that all their riff-raff
were on the way ; and when the train reached
Osceola, the citizens all turned out armed to
meet it, and wouldn't let a man get off. Eo
says they were all along the platform with their
revolvers out, and drove back every darker
who tried to step out of the cars. So some
of the black fellows came on to Fair Springs
and some got off at Altaville ; and although
I dare say they've had a sharp lesson, we'd
better be on the look-out for tramps the next
day or two, and these girls may as well not
go on long solitary prowls.'

'We are not much given to solitary

VOL. III. P

prowling remarked Eosemary, with a gentle
smile.

There's an energetic way about these
Florida fellows that one can't help admiring,'
observed Tregelva musingly as he carefully
peeled an orange in Cuban fashion, ' the
Giralda citizens making a clean sweep of their
black sheep ! and the Osceola men meeting
the train and driving them back with loaded
revolvers ! '

What they call here " doing a very slick
business," suggested Staples, or, to give him his
now rightful title, Lord Kilvastone.

Wish we had as " slick " a way of dealing
with our objectionable characters in the Old
World ! ' said Tregelva.

After all, it's only passing them on to our
neighbours,' said Violet. ' We used to do the
same thing, on a bigger scale, when we shipped
off our convicts to the colonies ! '

'Scarcely fair to one's neighbours,' remarked
Max Randolph. ; ' every city ought
to be able to deal with its own ! '

Best thing to do's to shut 'em up,' said
Conyers, with his accustomed decisive practicality.


I am going to ride over to Altaville this
morning,' said Randolph presently. ' I'm ,
and have to take my leave by
this evening's train.'

Why ! so soon ? ' exclaimed Mrs. Whit-worth
regretfully, while Violet devoted herself
assiduously to an artistic arrangement of
orange-peel on her plate, intended to represent
a flower. ' Can't you stay till the rest go, and
make a social move of it, and go north all
together ? '

That would be delightful,' he replied ; ' but,
unfortunately for me, I must move on immediately.
I have a little business to do at 



ville — to fetch a valise I left there. I hope I
shall be able to get back to dinner — and enjoy
a last social meal at your hospitable board.'

Well, I'm sorry you have to go so soon,'
the hostess said sincerely. ' We'll have dinner
a little late, so as to give you time.'

Max glanced at Violet ; she was looking

down, apparently absorbed in her orange-peel,

which had assumed a very fair resemblance to

a rose ; she was jutting a few finishing touches

to it with admiring care. She knew that he

was looking at her, but felt that she could not

look up and meet his glance before all the table,

lest under his eyes her cheek should pale or

flush. So she did not raise her head nor put

a word into the conversation, although every

word of his, so easily and carelessly spoken,

had fallen like the stroke of a hammer upon

her heart.

She did not look at Eosemary as they all

left the room after breakfast ; indeed, she rather
avoided looking at her. But Eosemary needed
no glance nor word from Yiolet as intimation
of her feelings. She understood perfectly
well ; and on her friend's behalf she proceeded
to take observations in the courtyard, and imparted
the results to Violet promptly.

The horse isn't saddled yet, Vi,' she said,
in a confidential and meaning undertone. ' If
you want to manage a talk with him now, you
can catch him for a few minutes before he
starts.'

Eosemary, indeed, might, and probably
would, have managed this ; but such management
was unluckily quite out of Violet's power.
She had neither the daring to make an open
call and claim upon his attention, nor the ingenuity
to frame some delicate device whereby
to attract him apart from the others. He gave
her no opportunity of a word aside with him

and she was too straightforward for the finesse,
too sensitive for the enterprise, which would
have helped her to create her own opportunity
under the public eye.

He stayed for a little time smoking on the
piazza and talking to the other young men ;
and how could she walk up to him before the
faces of Conyers and Chad wick, Tregelva, and
worst of all— Staples, and draw him apart
from them ? Presently he sauntered across the
hall, and lingered there for a parting chat with
Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth, and they accompanied
him to the courtyard, where by this time the
horse stood saddled and ready, with old Lorenzo
at its head.

Violet followed them. The Whitworths
were talking loud and cheerfully in their hearty
way. Max Randolph responding in his pleasantness
vein. Whilst he was feeding the horse
with a carrot — ' to put him in a good temper,'

as he observed — the Whitworths' attention was
attracted to the buggy, which was standing
under a tree hard by, and which certainly stood
in sore need of cleaning ; and they turned to
administer a course of mild and reasonable rebuke
— such as is judicious in a region where
help ' is difficult to get and hard to keep — to
Lorenzo for neglect of his duties. Whilst
they were thus occupied Violet drew near tp
Max and patted the horse's neck, and raised her
eyes to his with a sort of wistful appeal. She
had but a moment, for already Mrs. Wentworth,
leaving her lord to finish the admonition, was
turning back towards them.

Must you really — really — go ? ' asked
Violet, in a hasty, timid, pleading whisper.

I must,' he answered quietly ' Is it not
as well that I should ? '

I — I am sorry,* she faltered.

He looked at her with a little momentary

perplexity, as if wondering why she should
care. Was it some coquettish lure ? Was
Lord Kilvastone not enough for her ? Women
were coquettes ; and had he not arrived at the
conclusion that Violet was only like the rest ?
There was not time for another word to pass
between them, for Mrs. Wentworth was beside
them again ; and in two minutes Max
Randolph had mounted, and was riding out of
the courtyard, looking back to lift his hat with
a smiling good-bye.

That 'coming events cast their shadows
before ' is a psychic truth ; but they cast no
shadow visible to ordinary mortals, although
here and there, ' with cleared eyes,' a seer interprets
the signs. The invisible, impalpable
world around us is throbbing with portents
and teeming with foreshadowing ; but ice
flesh-bound in our narrow earth-cells, see not
the shadows that would warn, the lights that

would guide us like beacons on our way — hear
not the soundless waves of spirit-life that surge
round our prison walls. We are deaf and blind
to the fuller, higher, deeper life in which our
poor bubble of earthly existence floats its little
day, and breaks, and melts into that vaster world
it has not known. Only now and then, through
a loophole in the dungeon of the flesh, one pale
ray of that other world's light steals in, .and
shows us the shadowy forms of the future looming
through the darkness ; and then we cry
aloud and tell the wondrous tale of our presentiment
to our probably unbelieving fellow-mortals
who have never seen a sign.

Dimly, this day, a feeling of foreboding coldly
overshadowed Violet's spirits. She could not
shake it off* ; but no voice whispered to Max
Randolph as he rode on his way to Altaville.

The horse's hoofs fell almost noiselessly in
the deep, loose sand, which lay bleached and

burning like a strip of the desert. The almost
overpowering sweetness of the orange-blossoms
floated from the neighbouring groves, wherein
the trees, covered with their scented snow of
blossom, looked like huge bridal bouquets. A
cloudless sky of dazzling azure arched overhead
; a brazen sun poured its pitiless glare on
grove and wood and lake, and on the fast-fading
scarlet of the sorrel-field, and on the
burnt white road. Max Randolph, born in a
semi-tropical climate, and inured to outdoor
lire, accepted the heat and the dust and the
glare, and rode on his way more tranquilly
and philosophically than any of the transplanted
Britons of West Grove House would
have done.

He was nearing a small settlement, consisting
of a few scattered wooden houses, which
lay between West Grove and Altaville, when
he caught the sound of a distant but rapidly

approaching commotion on a path that intersected
his road almost at right angles — a hubbub
of outcries and execrations it seemed to be.
Trees intercepted his view of this path, so that
for a minute he only heard the fast-nearing
shouts ; then suddenly a tall negro — panting,
wild, his shirt half-torn from off his burly
shoulders, his white teeth showing like a
savage snarling animal's — rushed across Xhe
road. Behind, in hot pursuit, ran three or
four white men with shouts and deep execrations.


What's up, boys ? ' exclaimed Randolph,
reining up his horse.

Murder. Stop him ! ' was the answering
shout.

'He's murdered young Kennedy — slop
him ! '

Young Kennedy ! ' said Max, starting with
an exclamation of horror. He knew Frank

Kennedy the blacksmith well, and liked him,
and had stopped at the forge for many a chat
during the past season. Kennedy! that fine
young fellow — murdered !

No idea occurred to him but to follow and
seize the murderer — he, the only mounted man
there — probably the only one who could overtake
the assassin, who ran like the wind, and
was making for the woods, wherein they might
find a difficulty in catching him.

Randolph turned his horse sharp round ;
at one cut of the whip the spirited creature
gave a plunge, that would have unseated a less
practised rider, and broke into a gallop, which,
in a few moments, carried him not only up to
but past the object of pursuit. Max pulled the
horse up sharply, almost throwing him on his
haunches, with the sudden turn of which he
had learnt the knack in his wild Western life,
flung himself from the saddle right across the
negro's path , and seized him.

'Hold off!' the murderer cried, with a
savage oath.

But Randolph had got his hands fast
twisted in his torn collar, gripping his stalwart
shoulder. The negro, panting hard, strove to
wrench himself free, and, failing, thrust his hand
into his breast. Max saw the movement and its
meaning, and realising in a flash his error in
not having mastered the right hand first, caught
that wrist in a vice-like grip. The man twisted
like a snake in his grasp, and as the two closed
and locked in deadly struggle there was the
sharp but smothered crack of a pistol.

Max felt no pain at the instant ; but something
seemed to have struck him a blow in the
chest ; he had a sensation as of an electric
shock quivering like lightning through every
nerve ; and suddenly and strangely the power
went out of his muscles, and the earth seemed
to heave like the waves of the sea, as the sky
and the trees swam round him.

It all took place in little more than a
moment ; but the foremost of the pursuers, with
a desperate dash to the front, came up with
them in time to seize the murderer as he
wrested himself from Randolph's failing grasp.
The others speedily rushed to the spot and disarmed
him. His revolver, indeed, was harmless
now, as there had been but one chamber left
loaded, and it was that last loaded chamber he
had emptied in the struggle with Max. He
struck at his assailants with the butt-end ; but
they were too many and too strong for him,
and mastered him, though he fought like a
wiser. Two of them hastened to Max Randolph's
assistance, as he had staggered back
dizzily from the fray ; they caught him as he
swayed and fell, laid him gently on the ground
and knelt down by him to see what mischief
was done.

Meanwhile, from every quarter others

came running in hot haste to the spot ; an
excited crowd was collecting, as the news flew
like wildfire ; and cries of • Shoot him ! ' ' Hang
him ! ' ' Lynch him ! ' were raised as the throng-thickened
— no mixed crowd of men, women
and children, but a ' frontier crowd ' of bearded
men !

'He's taken red-handed; he's done one
murder, if not two ! Let's hang him up to this
tree right here ! ' shouted one man, pushing to
the front, and there was a fierce and threatening
murmur of acquiescence.

Then another man — a fine powerful-looking
fellow, with a strong, shrewd, yet kindly face —
strode forward, and called to them in a voice
which, though it was the tone of a brother
and comrade, claimed and commanded their
attention.

Stay, boys ! hold on ! Give the law a
chance. Justice should be done in cool blood.

He's to be hanged — we'll see to thai ! ' A grim
mutter of assent was heard in many voices.
But let him be hanged in due form by the
officers of the law, whose proper work this is.
Don't bring a blot on our city of Altaville and
let those other fellows say we couldn't trust
our own lawful authorities, elected by ourselves
to do such business as this on our behalf.
This isn't the backwoods ! Let law, order,
and justice be our watchwords here ! And,'
he added, with a stern and exultant ring in his
deep and powerful voice, ' the gaol isn't built
thafll hold him from us if we want to have him
out! '

A shout of applause went up. It was
this last argument that clinched the matter.
Besides, the lynch-law party were in the
minority — although a noisy minority.

The prisoner was taken off in a cart, surrounded
by half the crowd — some of them

forming themselves into a volunteer guard of
the ' law and order ' party, in doubt as to the
possible intentions or impulses of the others —
while the rest gathered round the spot where
Max Randolph lay.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXXII.

HEART TO HEART.

Violet was sitting in lier room, with the company
only of her own troubled thoughts ; she
felt too sad, oppressed, and restless with miserable
anxiety to care even to be with Rosemary.
Rosemary was, no doubt, enjoying the cool
shade of the trees or the piazza with Tregelva ;
and Violet felt just now that she had no part
nor lot in their happiness. She had said she
was going to write letters, and had gone so far
as to open her blotting-case ; but the pen was
not yet dipped in the ink. She was in no mood
for correspondence ; a feverish Sense of coming
trouble, a vague and unaccountable gloom,

mingled with almost unendurable bitter and
self-reproachful thoughts of the past night.

She looked up with a start. What was
that commotion below ? Strange voices, heavy
steps, the familiar voices raised in unfamiliar
tones of horror, questioning dismay ! That
confusion of heavy trampling feet, as if they
carried some cumbersome burthen !

In a moment those formless shadows of
apprehension took shape ; and she knew what
she dreaded — felt that it was to Max Randolph
that some mishap had befallen ! She was sure
of it as she sprang to the door and ran along
the corridor — sure of it before Eosemary came
hurrying to meet her, and caught her by both
hands.

Keep cool, Vi ; keep quiet ! ' she said in an
emphatic undertone. ' There's been an accident
— to Max. Come back into your room —
can't you trust me ? '

a2

Violet stood still and pale as a statue.
Yes, when you tell me what it is — what has
happened,' she said in breathless but almost
unnaturally self-contained and resolute tones.

It's one of those tramps, those black brutes
from Giralda — he had some row with young
Kennedy the blacksmith and shot him ; and
Max went to seize him, and he turned on him
and shot him too ! But he may not be much
hurt, Vi — we don't know yet. Come, dear, we
must not be in the way while they're getting
him to his room. Come, don't lose your head,
Yi!' she added, looking anxiously at her
friend's white face, dilated eyes, and parted
lips.

But there was little fear of Violet's ' losing
her head' in the face of a real catastrophe.
She rose to that calmness of which the most
highly sensitive and emotional women are
capable at great crises. Stir the surface, and

their nervous excitability is easily ruffled ;
strike down to the depths, and there lie the
deep still forces of steadfast strength. So
Eosemary found none of the difficulty she had
feared in keeping Violet quietly with her
whilst the wounded man was carefully carried
to his room.

As soon as the confusion, and the trampling,
and the words of command and questioning,
and the opening and closing of doors was
over, and they knew that he had been safely
conveyed to his own room, they hastened to
join the group in the corridor outside his door,
where nearly all the household, as well as the
men who had borne the extemporised litter to
West Grove, were gathered together, talking
in hushed excited tones. Violet, though pale
as death, was one of the most collected and
silent of the group ; but her eyes had a deep,
almost stern, gaze of fixed and concentrated

purpose. When she turned to Staples, who
was standing beside her, it seemed that those
large steadfast eyes, with their unconscious
intensity of expression, looked through and
through him ; yet it was not on him that they
were fixed : they where looking beyond him, to
the purpose on which her heart was set. But
she turned to him almost involuntarily, with
that kind of instinct by which children and
animals know where to turn for sympathy;
and when she noticed how genuinely shocked
and sympathetic was his look, she drew closer
to his side with a sort of clinging feeling of
reliance. She felt she could trust, depend on
him. He would tell her all the truth, so far ashe
knew it. And he did. He did not conceal
from her that they all feared it was ' a bad
business,' but the doctor had been sent for, and
until he came none of them could tell how it
would turn out.

Someone sensibly suggested that the less
talking there was outside that door the better ;
and a move downstairs was made, Eosemary
and Tregelva walking away together, talking
low, and only Violet lingered — angered and
watched a little distance from the door, until
Mrs. Wentworth came out of the room. Then
she went up to her hostess and took her hand,
and looked in her face with those soft, steadfast,
searching eyes.

How is he, dear ? ' she asked anxiously,
but quite calmly.

Mrs. Wentworth was looking grave.

Badly hurt, poor fellow, I'm afraid ; but
we can't tell till the doctor comes ; we must
hope for the best.'

I may go in and see him, and sit with him,
mayn't I ? ' said Violet, gently and quietly, but
with that fixed purpose ready to assert itself
if there should be any attempt to thwart it.

We are such old friends, you know ; and I
have always been considered a good little
nurse. I've never yet been out of the way
when anyone is ill or hurt.'

Well, I suppose you can go in if you wish
it, dear child,' said Mrs. Wentworth, only
hesitating a very little. ' But you mustn't talk
to him, or disturb him in any way ; we must
keep him as quiet as possible until the doctor
can examine him.'

Oh, yes, certainly, I shall be very quiet,*
Violet promised softly ; but the ease with which
she gained Mrs. Wentworth's consent sent an
icy thrill of chill foreboding into her heart ; she
feared that ready yielding to her wish was
ominous.

Mrs. Wentworth took her hand and led her
into the room, where Mr. Wentworth stood by
Max Randolph's side.

He lay there motionless, lividly pale, and

with his eyes closed. But the first glance at his
pale face was something of a relief to Violet ;
she had expected to be more shocked — had
dreaded finding some great and terrible change
in him. She drew a chair gently to the bedside,
and sat down with an air of tranquillity
which Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth noticed ; and
they thought — as she intended them to do — that
a young woman who was quiet and helpful was
less of a nuisance than an acquisition under
such circumstances as these.

Violet sat silent, to all appearance quite
collected and composed — not feeling much
agitated, indeed; her whole nervous system
was too tensely wound up to self-control for
her to be conscious of the strain. Her ruling
feeling was the fixed determination that, whatever
might happen, nothing now should come
between herself and him. Her place was hereby
his side, and here she meant to stay ; her

heart was set on this, and she was not really
conscious of feeling much more. Presently,
while Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth were whispering
apart, Max opened his eyes and looked round,
with a half-dazed unrecognising glance at first.

Who is it ? ' he asked.

It's only I — Violet,' she answered softly,
even cheerfully, and laid her light cool fingers
upon his. His hand closed round hers naturally,
and held it fast. He breathed short, and
set his teeth as if in some sharp pang.

Are you in much pain ? ' she asked him
tenderly.

No, not very much ; it comes and goes,' he
said, but his voice was weak and hollow. It
seemed as strange as terrible to see him lying
there so powerless and prostrate, when only
that morning he had ridden forth so full of
health and strength and vigour.

It seemed to Violet almost too strange to

be true ; she felt, somehow, as if this must bea
dream.

The door opened softly, and Eosemary
glided in. The sight of her seemed to wake
Violet up with a shock ; it roused her to the
consciousness of a quick stab of jealous pain.

She looked up at her with eyes that mutely
pleaded, ' Oh, do not — do not — come between
us now 1 *

Eosemary laid her hand on Violet's
shoulder with a tender, sympathising caress ;
and the next time the wounded man opened
his eyes they fell on those two pale fair faces
bending over him together.

'I — am — not much to boast of now, am
I?' he said faintly, with a ghost of his old
smile.

But you'll be more to boast of soon, we
hope,' said Eosemary very kindly and gently
Now, you mustn't try to talk ! '

He did not try ; he seemed too weak to
utter more than a few words at a time ; and
very soon the doctor came, and the two girls
left the room.

It seemed to Violet that a year of her life,
a year of awful suspense, passed in that hour
during which they waited for the doctor's
report. It was Mrs. Wentworth who brought
it to them at last. Her genial face was pale,
and tears stood in her kindly eyes. Her look,
even before she spoke, told them what she had
come to tell.

I am afraid it's a bad case, girls. I didn't
think he was so bad, poor fellow ! he took it
so quietly. But the doctor looks very grave
about it.'

What does the doctor say ? ' asked
Eosemary.

He says — there, you may as well know

the truth ! — he is afraid there's no chance. He
thinks it can only be a question of a day or
two at most — probably only of a few hours.'

Mrs. Wentworth could only stay with them
a few minutes, so many urgent matters naturally
claimed the attention of the mistress of
the house at this crisis.

When she had gone, the two girls looked at
each other, silently. Then Violet took Rosemary's
hands, and gazed into her face with a
breathless agony of mute entreaty. She could
not utter the words ; but her eyes were dilated
and intense with a prayer so passionate, so
piteous, they pleaded more eloquently than
her lips could ever have done. Their pleading
pierced straight to the one soft spot in
Eosemary's heart; she made one more sacrifice
to friendship. It was a sacrifice ; and
she drew her breath hard for a minute before
she said, ' Yes, Vi, you shall have him

to yourself. I won't come between you
now

The tears rushed to Violet's eyes ; all her
compelled composure broke up suddenly, and
her features quivered as if a very storm of
weeping was imminent.

Come, don't cry, Vi dear ; don't breakdown
novo ! ' said Rosemary encouragingly.

No, no,' she answered, mastering her
agitation with a desperate effort. ' I won't — I
mustn't break down now ! There'll be time for
that — afterwards.'

Yes, only keep up, darling, and you shall
be with him as much as you like. Til see to
that. I am coming in with you now to see
him, poor fellow ! Then I'll leave him to you.'

They went into the room together. Mr.
Wentworth was there, with a pale, awe-stricken
face. This was so terrible a thing to have
come into their peaceful, Arcadian life !

Violet held back and allowed Eosemary to
be the first at the bedside — the first to bend
over him and speak. For Eosemary had been
generous to hei and she would not fail in
return.

He looked much worse than he had looked
an hour before ; in that short time his face
seemed drawn and sunken, the temples
hollowed, a contraction as if of pain about
the pallid lips. Eosemary spoke to him in
cheering and gentle tones of inquiry and
sympathy ; he answered her with a few words
and a faint smile. Then she sat down beside
him for a little while ; and to Violet, sitting a
little distance off, counting the time by the
throbs of her loving, jealous, passionate heart,
that little while seemed an age. Yet she asked
herself as she sat watching, did he want Rosemary
? If he wanted her, if he would rather
have her by him than any other, then Violet

would yield her place, and Eosemary should
watch by his side.

But he lay quietly, not seeming to want
one person more than another, nor to care
much who was by his side ; and soon — although
it seemed late, late indeed, to Violet —
Eosemary got up to go. But before she left
him she stood for a moment by his side, with a
regretful lingering look, and her hand clasped
in his ; then she bent over him and pressed one
pure, tender kiss upon his brow. His pale face
brightened with a smile as he murmured gratefully,
' Thank you, dear ! '

Then Eosemary went ; and soon Mr. Whit-worth
also began to get restless.

Well, Violet, my dear, are you going to
sit here a little while ? ' he said.

Yes,' she replied, drawing her chair into a
comfortable position, and settling herself with
as matter-of-fact an air as possible.

Well, then, I'll leave you in charge,' he
said, ' while I go and look after things downstairs.
You'll just give us a call if he wants
anything. There's the ice and the lemonade.'

And Mr. Wentworth departed, thinking
what a comfort it was to have no hysterical
misses, but sensible, level-headed young women
to deal with in such circumstances as these.
And the sensible, level-headed young woman,
as he left her, heaved a great deep sigh — deep
as if her heart would burst, but silently, lest
it should disturb the patient, as he seemed to
be dozing.

She sat still, motionless, her eyes fixed upon
his pale, changed face. He was going to die —
to die ! and die no natural death ; his life cut
short by violence in its prime ; and she sat
watching by his side as the vital forces ebbed
slowly, slowly, away ; and yet it all seemed to
her like nothing more than a painful dream!

VOL. III. B

She felt wrapt in all the strange calmness of
a dream. She told herself the terrible truth,
framed it in words to her own heart, that Max
lay dying ; and yet she felt, now that she was
alone with him, now that there was none to
come between them, no storm of grief, no
passion of pain ; only that strange, cold, trance-like
apathy, as if the heart were dead
within her. If he must die, it seemed to her
that her own heart had died first. No tears
came to her eyes now ; she wondered at her
own coldness — thought surely this must be alla
dream, and she must soon awake !

Now and then he stirred, looked at her fora
moment, and then his heavy eyes closed again.
Once his hand moved slightly, as if seeking
something. She laid her own on it, and his
fingers closed round hers contentedly, if only
half-consciously.

Once Mrs. Wentworth came in, bringing

refreshments and medicine, and, seeing that
the patient was sleeping, laid her finger on
her lips and went out again.

Presently he awoke ; and Violet, obeying
the instructions that had been left with her,
gave him a few spoonfuls of lemonade and
brandy, not allowing him to raise his head,
and tenderly re-arranged the pillows. He
seemed a little stronger after this, and inclined
to talk.

'You've been here — all the time?' he
said.

'Yes.'

You are kind, gentle, good ! ' he answered
gratefully. ' And yet,' he added, with a shadow
of his half sad, half bitter smile, ' you didn't
care for me — you pitched me over like an old
glove — when '

He did not finish his sentence ; but Violet,
guided by Eosemary's hint on the previous

R 2

night, rightly interpreted his meaning now —
now, when it was all too late ! And now
that dead feeling of cold and dreamlike calm
broke up in a rush of passionate anguish and
.despair, which it cost her all her strength and
will-power to control — for it was no time for
agitating explanations and protestations now I
Yet one thing she felt she must say to him,
and this might well be her last, last chance
of saying it !

It was a mistake — all a foolish mistake of
mine,' she said, striving desperately for calmness
of tone. ' I — I did care — I did — I do ! *

You care — for me, Violet ? ' he murmured,
raising his eyes to her face with something of
the old seeking, searching look. ' Stay with
me, then,' and he drew her hand into his.
Stay with me — I don't think you'll have so
very long to stay.'

She shuddered and quivered, as the feeling

that his words were true seemed to stab her
through the heart.

If it hadn't been for me,' she murmured,
white and trembling with remorseful anguish,
perhaps you — you wouldn't have ridden out
to Altaville to-day ! ' She was struggling hard
to control herself, but, in spite of her effort,
her voice quivered pitifully.

No, no, dear ; don't think that ! ' he .
replied eagerly. 'I was going anyhow. It
was nothing, nothing, child, to do with you —
that you could help. Can a man escape his
fate?'

He spoke so like himself — his voice, in the
moment's earnestness, regained so much of its
natural tone — that a thrill of hope, keen as a
dart of fear, ran through her.

You are not so much hurt ? ' she said
tremblingly ; ' you will — you will get over
this?'

No,' he said, quietly and firmly ; ' I shan't
get over it, Violet. I know, and the doctor
knows. It's here ' — he put his hand to his
breast — ' and it will be the end of me — before
very long, I think. Don't be too sorry for me,
Violet ; it must come to us all.*

'Yes — sin old age,' she answered painfully
and brokenly. ' But you — now '

Does it matter much,' he rejoined, ' whether
it's soon or late ? Death's as natural as life —
our inevitable end. Life hasn't been over-kind
to me — I have not much reason to trouble at
leaving it. We must all go through the gates.
And beyond the gates — there's something — but
who is he that knows ? " '

His voice was growing faint and hollow ashe
murmured the last words.

It tires you to speak ; we must not talk,*
she said anxiously.

He seemed fatigued by the efforts of speaking

; his breath came short, and he sank back
into a doze, holding her hand fast. And the
hours dragged by ; and Violet sat immovably by
the bedside ; and people came and went softly,
and their movements did not seem to disturb
him, as he lay quiet, with closed eyes.

The Whit worths came every now and then ;
and Staples looked in with a very long face ;
and Tregelva came and stood in the doorway
with an air of sympathy ; and presently Rosemary
came in with her aunt, and Mrs. Whit-worth
insisted on relieving guard.

You must go now and have some dinner,
my dear,' she said to Violet, with a quiet firmness
that admitted of no dispute. * You will
be getting tired and faint if you don't. You can
come back, but you must go with Eosemary
now, like a good girl ; Pinkie has got you some
dinner.'

They might have spared their trouble, for

all that Violet could eat ; but Eosemary took
her out in the fresh air, and was very gentle
and sympathetic, and allowed, and, indeed encouraged,
Violet to find relief in tears, without
endeavouring to drive them back to their
sources, and thereby deprive a sorrow of its
natural vent, as some well-meaning people do,
and are proud of their own ' good management '
of the mourner when they have succeeded in
shutting the safety-valve and sat down upon it.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

SOUL TO SOUL.

EoSEMAKY had common-sense and sympathy
enough to know that Violet would be all the
better for the natural relief of a few tears. She
let her cry just as much as she thought good
for her, and then used all her influence — and
her stronger nature had a great influence over
Violet's more gentle, yielding, and sensitive one

to soothe and restore her to calmness ; and

her efforts were successful — so successful that
she soon ventured to allow Violet to perceive
that there was something to be told — something
that Rosemary half-hesitated yet wished to tell
her.

What is it ? ' Violet asked, with a startled
apprehensive look. ' Surely there can be nothing
worse ? '

Oh, no,' Eosemary said reassuringly ; ' it's
only a little curious — something that, though
it's in a way mysterious, might help to make
some dark things clear ! Do you recollect,
Vi, how that foolish Jemmy Dexter insisted
on tattooing my initials on his arm ? ' she
added significantly.

Yes,' said Violet, looking up with sudden
interest. ' Then has he — Max ? '

'Yes,' Eosemary answered the unspoken
question.' A woman's name — not mine, my
dear, nor yours — tattooed quite clearly just over
his heart. Who would have thought Max had
so much sentiment about him.^ It's an old
tattoo-mark. Aunt Em says — evidently years
old, but quite clear.'

What name ? ' Violet asked in a low voice,

with her eyes averted. Eosemary instinctively
lowered her own voice also, in reply, as if he
lying in his room upstairs — the room that he
should never leave till he was carried out —
could have heard her utter the name he had
held sacred, hidden at his heart for years and
years — the name of ' Laura.'

I think this throws a ray of light on many
things, Vi,' Eosemary added.

Yes,' replied Violet faintly, ' it does indeed.'


An hour afterwards, she was installed
again in her place by the invalid's bedside.

Violet's a born nurse, and loves doing
Florence Nightingale and ministering-angel
business,' Eosemary observed on the piazza ;
and the observation was meant for Lord
Kilvastone's benefit.

Violet, as she sat beside the bedside now.

keeping her faithful watch, felt her heart
melted within her in a great unutterable
anguish of tenderness and yearning. She felt
that her knowledge of that name, which must
be branded deep within, as well as lettered
above, his heart, if in one way it set him
further off from her — far, far away, isolated
in the secret of his own past — in another
aspect, brought him nearer to her. The feeling
that she had even so faint a glimpse into
his inner life — so frail and slight a clue to his
secret — seemed to her to draw them closer
together.

He could love, then — had loved — even if he
did not love her ! Did he love Eosemary? In
this new light the answer came to her 'No.'
The mystery of this hidden name — shrouded,
impenetrable, inviolable in itself — yet threw a
ray of light, as Eosemary had said, that made
some dark things clear. Clearly, indeed, now

Violet could see what his feeling towards them
both might well have been — a fleeting gust of
passion for Eosemary — a purer tenderness for
her ; but for neither of them that love which
she believed now that he had felt, but which
she had sometimes deemed him incapable of
feeling.

Underneath all his professed disdain of
love and disbelief in it, there had lain treasured
a secret and a memory. Deep beneath
his scorn and scepticism, he had held one
name, one image, shrine sacred and apart.

She knew many of Max Randolph's friends
some who had been intimate with him for
many years ; she remembered well that occasionally
they had indulged in a game of
speculation on the subject of Max and his
possible loves, and had generally arrived at
the conclusion that he was not a man for
falling in love.

She could not recall ever having heard a
word or a hint that even suggested any
suspicion of a love-story in his life.

Who was she then, this unknown ' Laura,'
whose name had never by any friend been
heard to pass his lips, though all the while it
was written on his heart ? Was she living or
dead? did she know where he was? and —
this thought flashed suddenly into Violet's mind
if she were living, ought she not to be
made aware of his condition now ?

While Violet was thinking thus he opened
his eyes, and they turned slowly upon her
face, and fixed there with a strange, clear,
calm, untroubled gaze : already they seemed
to have looked into another world — to have
caught the reflection of a serenity not of earth.
Violet,' he murmured presently, ' sweet
and good ! You are still there ? '

She leant a little nearer to him, and pressed

his cold damp hand as she asked him tenderly
the question then.

Is there anyone you would like me to
write to ? or to — to send for ? '

No he replied without a second's hesitation,
' no one ! '

Whoever the unknown Laura might be, if
she still lived, they were parted by so wide
a gulf that even in death he would not reach
a hand across it. ^

As evening closed in he grew more restless
and feverish, sometimes falling into an
uneasy sleep, then waking in spasms of pain
that took his breath.

Later on he began to wander a little —
talked of things and places of which Violet
knew nothing, and mingled these with allusions
to this day's events.

There's poor young Kennedy gone on

before,' he muttered — ' so many gone on before.
The gates are open — I can't see them — but —

I shall know — I shall know ' He turned

his head, and looked fixedly into a corner of
the room.

There's a dog ! ' he said. ' It came in at
the window.'

He lay quite still for a few moments, and
then said suddenly, softly, groping with his
hand upon the counterpane —

Laura are you there ? '

I am here,' faltered Violet.

He pointed to the corner where his delirious
fancy had conjured up the dog.

Is that your dog, Laura ? ' he asked. ' It's
not old " Spot ! "— " Spot " bit me 'she smiled
a curious, changed smile as he showed an old
scar upon his hand — ' but I forgave him because
he was your dog. Let us go for a walk
in the wood!' Then, as he turned on the

pillow, the movement seemed to pain him, and
he added with a gasping sigh, 'No, no — I
can't go : they've pinned me down with an
iron spike through here ' — he laid his hand on
his breast — ' I'm pinned here — I cannot move ;
but you — you will stay with me ? '

Yes, dear,' said Yiolet softly, tenderly,
I will stay ! *

Strangely enough, she felt no jealousy of
this unknown Laura — the woman who was
present now to his spirit's senses, although it was
Violet's soft living hand that was clasped in his.
Jealousy had leapt in her heart like a devouring
flame at the moment when Eosemary's words
on that unforgotten moonlight night had
brought before her the picture of Max as
Eosemary's lover. But no thought of jealousy
came near her now. She seemed to have gone
so far with him towards the other world — lie
had left such earth-born passions behind.

VOL. in. S

Eather, there was a strange, solemn, bitter-sweetness
in the thought that in his delirious
fancy he identified her with the woman he had
loved best. It was as if his soul, wandering
free, passing, as though already disembodied,
beyond the gates of the senses, turned in recognition
to hers felt the subtle magnetism in
hers of the same ' love strong as death,' which
many waters cannot quench which must have
thrilled and filled the soul of his lost love.
Happy Laura ! thought Violet — happy, whether
having or dead ; happy, however tragic might
have been the story of their love and parting —
the story which Violet would never know ;
happy, that in these last hours this mind's eye
saw her face — that in soul he called her to his
side, and rested at peace in the consciousness of
her presence now !

Nay, was it only a delirious dream that she
was with him ? May there not be a truth underlying

the superstition that the dying — with
their feet on the bridge that leads from world
to world — see ' with cleared eyes ? ' and might
not in this hour some mysterious consciousness
flash along the unseen currents of spirit-life
and reach to Laura, wherever she might be —
whether she were still a soul in fleshly fetters,
or had already passed the gates, through darkness
to the light ?

The evening passed without any marked
change in the patient's condition. Mr. Whit-worth
and Staples, who was both kind and
capable in cases of illness, shared the night-watch,
under promise of calling Mrs. Wentworth
and Violet should any serious change take
place. All night Max lay restless and suffering,
his breathing growing more laboured, his
pulse fainter and quicker. When day was
dawning the pain seemed to cease, and he
sank into unconsciousness. He had always

hated giving trouble to people, and he did
not give much now. The end made no long
delay.

About noon, when Violet was by his side —
not alone, for others shared her watch, now
that the end evidently was so near — he slowly
opened his eyes wide ; but they looked recognising
on no one, nothing there : their large,
clear gaze was fixed on no earthly vision —
fixed far away, as if beholding what none else
could see. There was consciousness, but not
consciousness of the things of earth, the
watchers by his side, in that look of almost
unearthly calm. No sign of suffering marred
its peace, although the laboured breathing was
failing fast ; the intervals between each deep
and gasping breath grew longer and longer.
He strove to lift himself up ; and Violet, who
was nearest to him, raised and rested his head
upon her shoulder. The faint wonderful smile

of the dying stole over his paled, sunken face.
His Ups moved. He had not spoken for hours ;
but now he murmured, in a voice that seemed
like a hollow echo from far, far off, the name
that none there but Violet had heard from his
lips until that last moment —

Laura ! Laura ! '
Then, one quick convulsive sigh — and Max
Randolph had done with life on this planet. .

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

LAND IN sight!

Miss Preston's looking very pale,' said Lord
Kilvastone v^ith an air of concern.

She is,' agreed Eosemary, to whom he had
addressed his remark, v^ho vas, indeed, the
only person present. They two chanced to be
sitting alone on the piazza ; it was the evening
of the day that Max Randolph had been laid in
the little churchyard, where there were but
few graves as yet ; and the next day the 
party were to leave West Grove
House.

She will be better when we get out of this
place — this climate,' Eosemary continued.

You — 3^011 don't think she's — ill ? ' he suggested
doubtfully.

111 ? No : she's tired ; and of course — Violet
is very sensitive, you know — she has been a
good deal upset by this sad affair.'

She's very tender-hearted, isn't she ? ' he
observed.

Very,' said Eosemary.

Yes,' he continued ; ' she reminds me of
a kind of a — Madonna — those pictures with
a halo, don't you know ? Sometimes she hasa
look on her face more like an angel than a
woman.'

Eosemary opened her eyes a little wider,
while a faint smile twitched the corners of her
lips. She certainly never would have thought
of likening Yi to either an angel or a Madonna.
Yi was a dear, sweet girl, and she loved her ;
but an angel ! The young Earl was evidently
very, very far gone !

You appreciate Violet's charms very highly,
don't you ? ' she said demurely.

Well, I suppose I do. But I don't think
I think any more of her than she deserves.'

Eosemary smiled again at the naivete and
clumsiness of the expression.

'And I presume you have made Violet
aware of your kind appreciation ? '

• I suppose she knows it ; girls generally
know these things, don't they ? Miss Heath,*
he added, after a moment's hesitation, ' you —
I fancy you see how the land lies '

With you ? Well, not being blind, I have
perceived it.'

He looked at her askance — something
as a dog looks at a cat whom he suspects of
treacherous intentions, from whose velvet paws
he momentarily expects a scratched face.

You need not look at me suspiciously,'
she said, mildly amused. ' I am not an enemy.

I bear no malice against you for not falling
in love with vie,' she added with her light,
audacious laugh.

This embarrassed Lord Kilvastone ; he
looked awkward, • and positively almost
blushed.

'Well, you know, Miss Heath, a fellow
can't — can't fall in love with two girls at once
he said apologetically.

No ? ' she queried with gentle mockery.

And you couldn't have married two of
us,' he continued.

No : that would have been beyond even
me.'

Archibald St. Julian had a wholesome awe
of drifting either into a flirtation or a collision
with Eosemary ; and with the directness of
purpose with which he habitually pursued his
way, he declined to be turned from the train of
thought and speech on which he had started.

But, about — Miss Preston — Violet ? ' lie
said.

'Yes, returning to our moutons — about
Violet now. Do you want a word of advice
from me ? '

Well, I — I'd like to ask you, do you
think I've a chance with her? or — or was
there something up — something between her
and that poor fellow ? '

They were old friends, you know,' replied
Rosemary easily, ' and Violet was certainly
very fond of him ; why, she had known him
ever so many years, and of course it was
only natural that his death in that terribly
sudden and tragic way should upset her a
good deal. But that's all over now, and as
to your chance with her, why, you have the
best of chances ! Are we not all going north,
to England ? We shall all meet in New York,
if you wait there for us — that is, when we

come up from Pine Eidge. Do you think you
will be there when we arrive ? ' She looked
at him with a certain keenness of questioning ;
for his willingness to accommodate his movements
to theirs would be a test of his being ' in
earnest ' about Violet.

Yes, certainly,' he said ; ' but you won't
be many days behind me, will you ? '

Not many, you may be sure, if /-have
an oar in the boat. Of course I must stay a
few days at Pine Eidge ; and Mr. Tregelva,'
she continued in a modest and maidenly tone,
must be duly introduced to my people, and
make acquaintance with them ; but we shall
make our way north as soon as ever it's
possible for me to get away. And then we
might all cross the Atlantic together,' she suggested.


Of course,' he agreed promptly. ' We'll
do that.'

Then, I am sure it is plain sailing enough
for you she replied. ' Vi will be glad to see
you iu New York ; and there will be the
voyage — the best of opportunities for making
oneself agreeable. Why, you'll have the game
all in your own hands !'

He smiled as this encouraging prospect was
unrolled before him.

'We're all off tomorrow morning,' he
observed thoughtfully. Then you would not
advise me to — to speak to her to-night ? '

No, not to-night. She's tired and
nervous. Meet us in New York ; sail on the
same steamer with us — that is your best plan.
You'll have your opportunity on the voyage :
trust me ! '

And Lord Kilvastone took Eosemary's advice,
and did trust her — for the first time.

He did not hurry himself over his journey
to New York, taking it in easy stages, and

visiting various cities en route, so that he only
reached there a day or two before Violet and
Eosemary, under the escort of the latter 's
fiance arrived from Pine Eidge. He made
acquaintance with Violet's grandfather, aunt,
uncle, and cousins, all of whom where highly
prepossessed in his favour. As Eosemary remarked.
Lord Kilvastone was a wonderful improvement
on Staples ; he seemed to have left
many of his uncouth, bearish ways behind in
Florida.

He and Tregelva sailed on the same steamer
with the Preston family, with whom Eosemary
travelled ; and as there are no better opportunities
in the world than those afforded by
a sea voyage for manifestations of devotion,
and as Lord Kilvastone was in no way
backward in availing himself of these opportunities,
and Violet received his attentions
amiably, it was supposed by many of their

fellow-travellers that there were two happy
couples in the Preston party.

The giant steamer ' City of Rome,' like a
floating city, glides lightly as a sea-bird over a
summer ocean smooth as a lake. The flush of
sunset still glows in the west ; the blending
azure and sapphire of sea and sky are deepening
as the first shadowy softness of the on-coming
night steals over them.

It is the last evening on the Atlantic ; ere
morning the great ship will anchor off the Irish
coast. Already along the horizon a purplish hue
lies like a cloud — the first glimpse of land.
All the voyagers — a goodly list of some four
hundred ' saloon passengers ' —-are on deck ; for
the most part they are promenading in pairs, or
leaning over the bulwarks gazing at that purple
line of the distant land, also in pairs. One pair.
Lord Kilvastone and Miss Preston, are up at the

bow of the vessel, where passengers are not
allowed, where windlasses, blocks, and coils of
rope are set as snares for their feet, and a
barrier stretched across to keep them back.
But Lord Kilvastone has a habit of getting his
own way — on board the ' City of Some ' as elsewhere
; and as the barrier here is only a slack-rope,
he and Violet have calmly stepped over
it, and here they are side by side, leaning over
the bulwarks, watching the keen edo-e of the
giant bow, which towers up like the wall of a
house, cut smooth and swift through the blue
depths beneath.

He has drawn her hand through his arm to
pilot her past the obstacles which beset the intruding
passenger's path up to this forbidden
quarter, where no one has followed them ; and
as they lean and look down on the water so far
below, they are close together ; the breeze
beats the ribbons of Violet's hood, and a loose

tress of her hair, against his shoulder. He
clasps and presses the little hand that rests so
confidingly upon his sleeve. Her other hand
lies on the bulwark, slim, and bare, and white.
It looks tempting ; he does not see why he
should not hold that one too : besides, the
poor little hand looks pale and cold and lonely
away from its mate ! He draws it into his
clasp — presses both the little cold hands together
; and Violet leaves them unresisting
in his.

During the voyage she has learnt to lean
upon his tender and unfailing care, to turn to
him for every little help. Now that the ocean
is so nearly crossed, and land already in sight,
and parting — if they are to part — so near, she
feels how much she would miss that ever-ready,
kind, and faithful hand if it were withdrawn.
Always very susceptible to external
influences, she is keenly alive to the soft

surroundings of the scene, — the fading sunset ;
the subtle and tender hues of sea and sky as the
slowly deepening twilight falls over them like
a veil ; the suggestions of the dim blue line of
land on the horizon, the tranquil ocean, its vast
bosom heaving gently as a child's asleep ; the
huge vessel, a world in itself, cutting its way
clean as a knife straight through the waveless
waters — homeward bound ! •

All impulses of soul and sense

combine to thrill Lord Kilvastone's ' guileless
Genevieve ' this night ; and he, quick to feel,
if slow to express, feels that his hour has come
to speak.

He has no need to tell her that he loves
her : he is sure she must know that well. ' On
such a night as this ' few words are needed to
tell the old, old story. He begins by requesting
her to call him ' Archie,' as his ' own people '

VOL. III. T

do ; and then avails himself of this promising
opening by hurrying on to ask if she will
accept the right to address him in such familiar
and homelike terms for the remainder of their
natural lives ?

I need not add that he stumbles through
this important inquiry in blunt and broken
phrase.

If it is an open question whether Violet is
the least in love with Lord Kilvastone, there is
no question whatever that she is very fond of
him — that she gets on thoroughly well with
him, is content in his companionship, and can
contemplate without even ' a little aversion ' the
prospect of that companionship being a lifelong
union. Of course she hesitates a little, in
woman's way, before committing herself to a
decisive answer ; but Archie is bent on having
a clear ' yes ' or ' no ' from her ; and Violet,
having, to her everlasting and bitter regret.

uttered the fatal little two-lettered monosyllable
once too often already, will not make
the same mistake again !

They make their way back from the bow,
over the stumbling-blocks of windlasses and
coils of rope, an affianced couple — Archie humming
an air under his breath, and rather out of
thine, in the exuberance of his gladness ; Violet
with a soft flutter of not unhappy excitement,
making her heart beat quick. They have
lingered longer than they are aware in their
solitude at the end of the vessel ; the sunset
has faded and night has fallen when they return
to the still crowded promenade deck.

Many of the passengers have been attracted
down to the music-room by the usual impromptu
concert which goes on every night
when it is calm enough. As they pass by the
open doors of the companions, the refrain of
the ' Habailera ' song from ' Carmen ' floats upto

them in Eosemary's clear, full, ringing
voice.

Si tu ne maimed pas, je traite.
Si je traite, prends garde a toi ! '

Violet pauses with a start, and a little shiver
runs like a chill to her heart ; but it is a good
sign that as that reminder of the past stabs
through the hope and joy of the present, unconsciously,
instinctively, she clings closer to
her future husband's arm.

That song brings back to her in one flash
of memory the picture of the parlour at West
Grove House, and Max Randolph standing by
the piano. Like the distant tolling of a knell,
echoing across scented summer flowering fields,
that refrain strikes on her ear.

She has cast the die of her future this night ;
and it is a fortunate cast. Life smiles upon
her in radiant promise. Yet, as at this hour,
on the threshold of her fair future, that song

comes to her as an echo from a tragic past — soit
will be for ever. Through the gay, bright
melody of her life will run one recurrent note
that to her sounds like a requiem. The tune to
which her days are set now may — nay, surely
will — be joyous ; but through the dominant harmony
ever and again her ear will catch that
one ' pathetic minor ' chord of memory thrilling.
A word, a snatch of the old songs, the scenlTof
the Southern yellow jasmine or magnolia — and
she will be back again at the West Grove,
wandering through the pine-woods, dreaming
amongst the orange trees, or drifting on the
lakes, with Max Randolph by her side !

There is no fear that the fair young Countess
of Kilvastone will not be happy, popular,
prosperous, beautiful, beloved — and loving too,
lor the tendrils of her vine-like nature will
soon learn to twine fast and firm around her
Archie's stolid strength and sturdy faith. But

she will never forget the man who won her love
unsought, who lies in his lonely grave in the
little South Florida churchyard, his heart's
secret buried with him — the secret she will
never know !

THE END.

PRINTED BY

SF'OrilSWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

LONDON

Now ready, tete seventh Edition of
A.HMY fiO'^IETY. By John Rtkangk Went-er. Author of
'Battles' Baby.' Cloth gilt. 65.; also picture boards-is.

GARRISON GOSSIP. Gathered in Blankhampton. By John'
STH-^NGE WixTKU. Cloth gilt, 35. 6rf. (Third Edition.)

IN THE Shores. By Sir Sandal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth
gilt, 3s. 6d.

THE GIRL TN THE BROWN HABIT : A Sporting Novel. By
Mrs. Edward Kennaiid. Cloth gilt, 3*. &d.

BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs. Alexander. Author of ' The
Wooing O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. M. (third Edition.)

KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs. Edward Kennard, Author
of ' The Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 'ds. 6d.

IN A Grass COUNTRY. By Mrs. H. Loveth Cameos,
Author of ' A North Country Maid ' &c. (Sixth Edition.) Louth
gilt, 3.S. 6d. ; also picture boards, 2s.

THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6c?.

THE BOND OP WEDLOCK. By Mrs. Campbell Puaed, Author

of ' Dine.' Cloth gdt, 3s. 6'/.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Mrs. EnwAUD Kennard Cloth

gilt, 3s. 6d.

P. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 Southampton Street, Strand, London, W.C

■^MM
