OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8Z5

V.I

BY

GENIE HOLTZMEYEE

.HOB or «'BA^aHX.BS Or .VB,» " HIZP.H," «'H.B Ow WAX.

itt too Volumes
YOL. I.

LONDON :
Tinsel Brothers, 8, Catherine Street, Stead


[AZZ ngf/its reserved]

1 generate mg wanting

ITS GODFATHER.

PAGE

PROLOGUE . 1

CHAPTER I.

TEN Years AFTER H

CHAPTER II

AT SIBTHORP MANOR 35

CHAPTER III.
cecil's return . 52

CHAPTER IV.
the practice 67

CHAPTER y.

A LIFE BROKEN 73

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. weed's at-home 8T

CHAPTER VII.

A FRIEND IN NEED 103

CHAPTEE VIII.

SIR HERBERT Mainspring

A MODERN HECATE

STRICKEN

CHAPTER XVII.

NO ESCAPE . . . . .

PAGE



CHAPTER IX.

'* RATHER TOO RIPE FOR ME " . . . .146

CHAPTER X.

LANDED 15^

CHAPTER XL

AN ARDENT LOVER 1^^

CHAPTER XII.



CHAPTER XIII.

IS IT THE WORK OF A FRIEND? . . .221

CHAPTER XIV.

SCORNED 228

CHAPTER XV.

WAE S ME . . . . . . . . ^* >

CHAPTER XVI.





Prologue.

It was a snowy January night, and the one
theatre of the small manufacturing town of
Dartle was crowded to excess.

As a rule, north countrymen are not
great playgoers ; but for the last fortnight
their latent curiosity had been roused by
flaring posters, announcing that the grand
burlesque of '^ Prince Charming " would be
played for one week at the Theatre Royal.
Side by side with this bill were life-sized
portraits of a handsome Prince Charming,
holding the hand of a Princess Bella Than-belle,
of such extraordinary beauty that the

VOL. I. B

whole town was in an uproar to see the
original.

The photographers exhibited portraits of
Miss Miami Yandeleur as the Princess,
and Miss Ada Wilmot as the Prince, and
attracted gazing crowds to their windows.

The upper classes took seats about a
week beforehand; and from the time the
first poster appeared till the opening night,
it was the one topic of conversation among
rich and poor.

The result was that the house was
crammed from floor to ceiling ; and the
manager, peering through a rent in the
drop-scene, congratulated himself on the
success of his speculation, and went to pay-some
slight attention to the ladies, who
were the cause of all this stir, mentally
hoping that they might come up to public
expectation and recoup his expenses.

Their appearance was certainly favourable.


Miss Wilmot was a tall, splendidly-made
woman, with magnificently-formed limbs,
which she had not the smallest compunction
in showing to their very greatest advantage.

Her face, though undeniably handsome,
had a coarse, bold expression, which, to a
minute observer, in a great measure destroyed
the charm, which the beauty of outline, fine
eyes, and masses of bright brown hair gave
her.

Miami Vandeleur was slighter and fairer
than her companion, and as far as regular
beauty went, her inferior ; but from her
manner and expression infinitely the more
charming. Her face always wore a frank,
pleasing smile, which at the first glance was
often taken for innocence and ingenuousness.
Her golden hair at once stamped her the
actress, but the modest way in which she
lowered her dark eyes, and the low tone
in which she always spoke, led people to
believe she was all she seemed to be, and

B 2

that it indeed broke her heart to display
her figure and sing and dance before a
crowd.

Ada Wilmot could have told a different
tale, but the Vandeleur was clever, and
played her game well.

Though they always denied it, many
people — from their great likeness — believed
them to be sisters, as indeed they were.

The daughters of a small shopkeeper ina
London suburb, they had grown up
without any education, and with the curse
of beauty ; for to girls in their position
beauty could be but a curse and a snare.
Ada was the first to fall a victim. Her
father suggested that she should go out
as a lady's maid, and in a rage at such
a proposition, she sought and obtained an
engagement at a theatre, where nothing
would be required of her but to show
her magnificent figure.

The rest soon followed. She was what

the manager called " taken up " and removed
from the stage for a time, while
her voice, which uncultivated was of great
beauty, was trained. Soon she became an
ornament to the profession as a burlesque
actress.

Far from feeling her degradation, Anne
Warren (for such was her real name) sent
for her sister Maria, who, under the imposing
name of Miami Vandeleur, delighted
her audiences with her graceful acting and
sprightly dancing. Such then had been
their life for the past eight years.

As the manager entered, Ada Wilmot
was haranguing a lovely little child, who
stood shivering and cowering before her.

Now Cecie," she said, in a harsh coarse
voice, 'you go and get dressed at once,
or you know what will happen."

But I can't be the Fairy Queen to-night,
Aunt Ada," whimpered Cecie, raising her
great dark eyes pleadingly.

"Do what you re told miss' said Ada
so threateningly, that the child, alarmed,
hurried away.

She was supposed to be the daughter of
an old friend of Miss Wilmot's, who had
died in giving her birth, and Ada had
generously undertaken the care of her.
That was the story ; if people believed it, so
much the better.

Prince Charming, with a laugh at the
child's expense, bounded away on to the
stage, to verify her title in every respect.

Presently the little Cecie returned, carried
by an attendant. Her fair hair was combed,
curled, and decked with a tinsel crown ; her
warm woollen skirts changed for thin tulle,
and her tiny feet cased in the thinnest of
shoes and silken stockings.

Cold and shivering, she crept near the
fire ; as near as she dared without fear of
damaging the paste and paint, that had been
thickly laid on her little face and arms.

A bell rang. Cecie never stirred, but sat
on in a half doze, longing to be in bed.
Suddenly a harsh voice fell on her ear ; it
was Miss Wilmot.

'now Cecie, that was your bell. Why
are you not ready at the wings, instead of
spoiling your dress over that fire ? Get up
miss, directly ! "

Cecie rose reluctantly.

Aunt Ada," she said, " I can't go on ;
my head aches, and I don't know a word of
what I have got to say."

Not go on ! Forgotten your part !
How dare you miss ! " cried the now
enraged woman. " Come with me this
moment."

Cecie never stirred. Ada Wilmot
stamped her foot.

*' Will you come ? " she said, in a deep
ominous voice. "It's just your turn, so
come at once."

No, Aunt Ada, I won't," said the child

with a show of dogged temper, terrible in
one so young.

'' You won't ! " cried the woman in a
voice of fury, and giving her a swinging
box on the ears, she flung her away with all
her force.

No sooner was the deed done than she
began to feel some alarm. She might lose
her own engagement if the manager found
out it was she who had rendered the child's
appearance impossible, and hastily picking
up the senseless little body, she used
every means in her power to restore her
senses.

The bell rang again. Cecie must go now
or never. The call-boy appeared. She was
conscious but weak, and hardly able to
stand. Ada Wilmot was in despair.

What can we do ? " she cried to Miami,
who at that moment entered. " The little
brute refused to go on, and when I struck
her she fainted, and now she isn't fit."

Oh, give lier some brandy ! " said Miami
carelessly.

Ada seized the notion as a drowning
person catches at a straw. A bottle was
close at hand, and she poured out half a
tumblerful, and held it to the child's lips.

Cecie, now fully restored to consciousness,
drained it to the dregs, and with cheeks
flushed, her limbs filled with a borrowed
vigour, she was not only fit but anxious to
fulfil her part. Tripping lightly on to the
stage, she won quite an ovation with her
graceful movements, pretty manner of rendering
her speech, and fairy-like lovely
face.

Two bouquets fell to her and a rapturous
encore. Ladies remarked " how happy she
looked," and thought acting seemed quite a
pleasure to her, judging from her bright
little smiling face, little knowing that the
child's heart was beating wildly with intense
fear lest she should fail; for, as she had

stepped on the stage, her aunt had whispered
fiercely in her ear :

If you don't play well, I'll beat you
within an inch of your life when you come
off."

With her face still glowing with pleasure
after the recall, Cecie came trembling to
Ada with the flowers in her arms.

Am I good ? " she asked.

'* Yes ; get away," said Ada.

The child was turning sorrowfully away
when Miami, who was often kinder to her
than Ada, called her, admired the flowers,
kissed her, and bade her go away and be
quiet ; and the poor, neglected mite crept
off to sob out her weariness and misery.

TEN YEARS After.

A WARM, cosy room, the walls him with
a delicate sage-green pander, the furniture
and curtains of a rich peacock blue, the
carpet, thick velvet pile, everything luxurious
and tasty, with lace curtains in the
windows, and flowers blooming in elegant
little stands. In every available corner,
bracket, shelf, or what not, on which were
strewed with lavish, but tasteful hand,
articles of vertu, rare bits of old china,
and the hundred-anemone bric-a-brac, without
which no room is habitable. Everything
was in harmony, and everything

bespoke the ownership of a person of cultivated
taste and habits ; one devoted to
beauty of form and colour, a person artistic
in every sense of the word. Perhaps it is
wrong to say everything thus bespoke
cultivation and artistic feeling ; there was
something that jarred, a very serpent in the
Eden, one error against good taste that was
so flagrant, so gross, that on entering the
room, a stranger was rendered half-imbecile
with wondering how a person who had such
good taste in all else, should be so utterly
insensible to the beauties of the limner's
art.

It must not be imagined there were
no pictures — one was forced to wish the
walls were bare. No ; pictures there were,
but for the most part such villanous daubs
that you wondered how the massive frames,
which might well have enclosed veritable
chef-d'wuvres, would condescend to be riveted
to such worthless rubbish.

At a pinch the whole collection would
have fetched a five-pound note, and as
they numbered fifty and upwards, their
value may be guessed.

When looked at side by side with the
rest of the room, a stranger felt inclined
to put the owner down as a person of
execrable taste, but when he was informed
that this was the private sanctum of Miss
Ainsworthy, the popular principal of that
still more popular establishment known as
Beulah College for Ladies, and that these
graceless characterless daubs were votive
offerings from past and present pupils, the
above-mentioned stranger could not help
thinking that besides good taste Miss Ains-worthy
owned good-feeling, tact, and kind-heartedness,
when she would disfigure her
room for fear of distressing her pupils.

Each and prosperous was Miss Ainsworthy,
as indeed her surroundings denoted ; she
was a handsome woman, still in the prime

of life, but three-and-thirty, with a face
which had perhaps no regular beauty
beyond its outline, which was perfect.
The mouth, though well-formed, was rather
large, and the square firm chin a thought
too heavy ; the face owed its beauty to
its ever varying expression, and to the
large dark magnificent eyes, whose steadfast
gaze made them true windows of the
great soul within.

Her pupils often wondered why Miss
Ainsworthy had never married, and the
more romantic opined that she had sustained
some fearful cross in love, which
had made her evermore eschew masculine
society ; but had they seen their darling
mistress in society they would have found
their dream rudely shattered.

Mabel Ainsworthy loved admiration better
than most women, she liked the society of
men, and was never better pleased than
when the centre of an admiring group, and

had now more lovers by half than fell to the
lot of the belles of her acquaintance. But
better far than admiration, Mabel Ains-worthy
loved liberty. She had pined for
it from her girlhood, and it had been her
one dream, when the hope of realising its
pleasures seemed utterly without foundation.

Her father had been an admiral, very
poor, and equivalent proud. Her mother
having died when she was but fifteen, she
found herself thus early installed as mistress
of a very humble establishment in presented
Bournemouth.

Her father was nearly blind, very crotchety
in temper, and wanted constant care
and attention, and for eleven long years
Mabel was the slave of his whims and
caprices, besides having to bear the grinding
weight of poverty. How she longed for
liberty during those years of privation, how
she hated her scanty cheap dresses, and her
lonely isolated life! Admiral Ainsworthy

having come of a good stock himself, and
married a lady of equal rank, deemed few
people good enough to form society for
himself and his daughter, and thus their
only friends were amongst the few relatives
and acquaintances that visited Bournemouth
in the season. Even thus, Mabel had her
lovers, but she thought more deeply of
marriage and married life than most girls
do, and the result of her cogitations was,
that she should leave the life of bondage,
which, in the natural course of events must
end before long, to put her neck under a
yoke which would gall her for her whole
life. She refused all offers, with difficulty
preventing herself from being dazzled when
an earl's coronet was laid at her feet, but
she guided her little bark past the fatal
rock, and was saved.

Two months later her father died ; and
when six more had flown, the offer was
again made, but Mabel had tasted the

sweets of liberty, and with unparalleled
audacity, declined.

Since her fathers death she had been
visiting her maternal uncle, Sir Geoffrey
Wilbraham, whilst the cottage and its
effects were sold ; and when the Earl of
Comberfi eld's offer was renewed, she had
as her worldly possessions a piano, a good
library of books, a not very ample wardrobe,
and one hundred and fifty pounds
in hard cash, the proceeds of the sale.

"I don't love you Henry," she had
said, '' and therefore I could never put
up with your temper. I should want my
own way, and you'd insist on having
yours, and as I should not give in, the
end would be a divorce or something of
the kind."

*but what shall you do Mabel?" he
asked. "My poor girl, you must think
of the future."

*rand I have thought of the future.

VOL. I. c

Til keep a school. Of course it will be
small at first, but it will grow large intime,
and amongst my girls I shall be
absolute mistress."

Mabel was firm. She would riot marry,
and she would keep a school, so all her
relations could do was to establish her ina
fashionable neighbourhood, as principal
of a high-class ladies' college.

She had prospered well during the seven
years that had passed, had paid off the
money lent to start her, and was rich and
flourishing, and the leading member of a
coterie of literary, artistic, and musical
people.

She did not trouble her grand relatives
much, laughingly saying she was out of
place amongst them, and keeping up
friendly intercourse with them at a distance
only. Her pupils loved her almost
to adoration, and those few who were
happy enough to be admitted as boarders.

felt themselves favoured before all the
world.

Beyond making a progress throng the
schoolroom every morning, she did nothing
in the school, though by some means
entirely her own she contrived to know
each pupil personally, and to be their
friend more than their mistress, often
taking them with her in her daily drives.

The afternoon was cloudy, and thinking
it too doubtful to venture out, Miss
Ainsworthy had dismissed her neat victoria
and pair of bays, and determined to
devote a few hours to finishing an article
for a periodical, ere she dressed for a
dinner, to which she was due at eight.

Hardly had she settled her papers and
collected her thoughts, when a tap came
at the door.

Come in ! " she cried somewhat impatiently,
without turning round.

I must beo: a few minutes' conversation

with you Miss Ains worthy," said the voice
of Mrs. Eltham, the head-mistress.

Miss Ainsworthy turned in a moment.
She always showed great deference to Mrs.
Eltham, more to show an example to
her pupils than for any other reason —
personally she disliked her. She was the
widow of a country clergyman, and an
intensely cold high-principled woman, who
went through the world forcing respect
from everyone, but neither giving nor
receiving sympathy.

I want to speak to you about Miss
De Vere," said the lady in a hard dry
voice. '' Are you at liberty ? "

"Oh certainly; pray come in."

"Perhaps I may request Miss De Vere
to enter also," and there advanced into
the room a girl of about seventeen. She
was very fair, with a profusion of soft
golden hair, and large expressive gray eyes.
Her cheeks were very flushed, and her

face wore an unmeaning look at which
Miss Ainsworthy wondered.

The girl was expensively and well dressed
in the height of the fashion, and carried
herself with a well-born elegant manner ;
but, changed though her surroundings were,
Time, the great worker of all changes, had
in no wise altered her face, which was that
of the unfortunate child we last saw on the
boards of a theatre.

How had she come to Miss Ainsworthy
when that lady was such a stickler for
references ? How had she acquired the high-sounding
name of De Yere ? Where were
her aunts ?

Miss Ainsworthy gazed at the girl in
surprise, and then said,

"What, you in trouble, Cecie ? I
thought you were one of Mrs. Felt ham's
best girls."

Cecie smiled vaguely and then hung her
head.

Mrs. Eltham spoke.

My complaint against Miss De Vere is
in no way connected with her studies. I
couldn't wish for a better scholar than
Cecily has always proved. I have brought
her to you to-day to make a grave charge
against her, one which I should not have
ventured to make without first having
fully ascertained my suspicions were well
founded."

There was a pause. Miss Ainsworthy
felt nervous, fearing to hear that Cecily
had been taking something from one of her
schoolfellows. Dreadful as this idea was,
the reality proved infinitely worse.

"Look at her," pursued Mrs. Eltham.
*' I can hardly frame my lips to speak the
dreadful words. Look at her, madam, and
see for yourself what I have to tell you."

Miss Ainsworthy looked. The girl was
flushed and seemed dazed and confused ;
but still she was no nearer the truth.

'ego on ! " she said peremptorily.

Mrs. Eltham raised her hand, and
pointing to Cecily said,

This is what I say. Cecily de Vere is
intoxicated, and has been so several times
of late."

'' What ! " cried Miss Ainsworthy, starting
from her seat. She had been prepared
for folly or meanness, but not vice. " What
did you say ? "

'' Cecily de Vere is not herself' persisted
Mrs. Eltham.

Miss Ainsworthy seized the girl by the
shoulder. '' Do you hear what is said,
child! what have you to answer?" Cecie
opened her eyes (she had been half asleep)
and smiled vaguely at Miss Ainsworthy.

Yes, I hear," she said, speaking thickly ;
then her head fell forward and she appeared
asleep.

''I fear it is but too true," said Miss
Ainsworthy sadly.

'' I fear so," Mrs. Eltham responded.
*' But what can be done ? Shall you send
for her friends ? "

Miss Ainsworthy paused a moment in
deep thought.

No," she said, *' if you will kindly assist
me, I will lay her down on this sofa, and let
her sleep."

Mrs. Eltham somewhat scornfully cleared
the sofa of some of its cushions, and Miss
Ainsworthy lifting the child in her arms, laid
her gently down covering her with a warm
furry rug.

*' Indeed Miss Ainsworthy you are too
kind to her," Mrs. Eltham cried out. ^' How
can you show such gentle care to — well, to
a drunkard ? "

"Hush Mrs. Eltham, you forget how
young she is, you forget the thousand-undone
excuses there are for her. I shall of
course punish her with the utmost severity,
still I cannot but be lenient to her in my

thoughts. To my mind, the fault lies with
Miss Hellish, for not attending more
strictly to my rule that nothing is brought
into the school without my knowledge.
Cecily de Vere was most likely "

I wish I could take your view of the
case' Mrs. Eltham said mournfully. " But
unfortunately, from sad experience in my
late husband's parish, I perceive in Miss
De Vere the symptoms of an habitual
drunkard."

Impossible ! You must be mistaken ! "

I wish I could be, but unfortunately
drunkenness is such a prevailing vice, that
one cannot be a clergyman's wife long
without learning every phase of the foul
disease."

You forget Mrs. Eltham, your husband's-parish
lay in one of the worst parts of
London, amongst people of the lowest and
commonest type ; and, though I cannot
sufficiently admire your courage in pursuing

your good works, even in those dangerous
and fever-haunted dens, yet you must
allow me to remind you, that you are now
speaking of a girl whose rearing has been
that of a lady, and above all, that the vice
which I cannot but deplore, is not prevalent
among females."

Excuse me madam," said Mrs. Eltham,
reddening a little under the reproof,
drinking is now quite as common among
women as men, and they will even take eau-de-cologne
when wine or spirits are beyond
their reach."

'' How shocking," rejoined Miss Ains-worthy,
without showing much interest in
the subject. " But still, I presume the
females you mention, are not of the society
to which Miss De Vere belongs. Her
family and early education would both
render such a supposition impossible."

"As to her early education, I consider it
to have been infamous. I have heard that

girl use language better suited to a cabman,
and I must confess to have frequently felt
curious as to her family."

Miss Ainsworthy rose — her face flushed,
her manner excited.

Your words are an insult to me and my
arrangements, Mrs. Eltham. Perhaps you
may not be aware that I receive no pupil
into the college without the most unexceptionable
references. You are aware that
I have under my roof the daughters of some
of England's proudest peers. For what do
you take me, if you think I could so far
forget my responsibility as to allow them to
mingle with anybody's daughters ? "

I take you to have been deceived," the
head-mistress answered coldly, her hands
lying idly on her crape dress, her passionless
gray eyes gazing fully at her employer.

With an angry gesture, Miss Ainsworthy
crossed the room, and unlocking a bureau,
took from it a large leather bound volume.

After turning the leaves for some moments
in silence, she exclaimed,

'there is the entry, 'Easter term, 1872.
Cecily de Vere, sixteen, entered January
20th, daughter of the late Colonel Edward
de Vere, who died in India. Reference,
Sir Hugh StajDylton, a maternal uncle.'
You will observe I am particular in my
inquiries, sufficiently so to satisfy even you,
Mrs. Eltham," she said sarcastically.

Did you ever see her mother ? " said
the governess, without noticing the former
speech.

"No; she was brought by her uncle.
Her mother is long since dead. She lives
with some maiden aunts in Cornwall."

"Humph!" said Mrs. Eltham, "then I
suppose it is all right, but what I have to
say about her is, that you ought not to
retain Miss De Yere any longer in your
house. As I have said, she uses most
profane language, and on more than one

occasion I have suspected her of imbibing.
To-day, being convinced of it, I brought
her to you. I need now no longer trespass
on your time madam," and with a slight
inclination of the head, she left the room.

Miss Ainsworthy looked angrily after the
retreating figure, and murmured,

'' I would not keep that insolent woman
an hour, but that I know her to be so
thoroughly trustworthy ; " and considerably
disturbed, she took up a piece of fancy
work, and settled herself to wait for Cecie's
awaking.

In about two hours she stirred, moaned,
and finally sat u^d, rubbing her eyes in
wonder at finding where she was.

Miss Ainsworthy," she said.

Come here, dear."

Cecie came and sat down on a low stool
beside her. She had evidently no recollection
of what had happened.

"What was the matter with you when

you

were brought in here ? " was the first

'o

inquiry.

Cecie's face changed. She remembered
all now ; and with a cry of shame she
buried her face in Miss Ainsworthy's lap.

"They tell me Cecie, that you were

that you had been taking some wine that
disagreed with you. Now you know it is
quite against my rules to allow any of you
wine unless it is ordered by a doctor. How
then did you come by it ? Tell me the
truth Cecie, mind."

The child's face was a study — fear,
anxiety, cunning, all were working there.
At last she spoke.

*' Oh Miss Ainsworthy, dear Miss Ains-worthy,
forgive me. I know I am wicked,
but forgive me and don't send me away ;
oh, promise me that ! "

''My dear, I can promise nothing till
I know all. Where had you got the
wme f

It was not wine, it was eau-de-cologne,'*
sobbed Cecie.

*' Eau-de-cologne ! How came you to take
that ? "

Mrs. Eltham scolded me and locked mein
my room for — for swearing ; and she —
sbe said sbe should tell you to send me
away — and I was frightened and took some
eau-de-cologne, because it always makes me
feel happy again directly'

"Then you are in the habit of taking
it?"

Oh yes ! Aunt A , Aunt Maud, and

Aunt Evelyn always do," she said artlessly.
My poor child," said Miss Ainsworthy,
in a tone of deep pity, " but did they teach
you, and so young ? "

I used to take brandy when I was six,"
she said.

But what for ? " said the astonished
mistress.

"Oh, I always had it when I was

trusted you to me. Were I to keep you in
my house, with fever about, would he not
think me to blame ? Of course. Then how
can I keep you for the sake of the other girls
when you have a disease far more contagious
than fever ? Listen to me, Cecie. You must
pray, and strive night and day, to conquer
this evil habit. It is not only that you will
be a disgrace to your people if you allow it
to grow on you, but it is for the evils
it carries in its train. Every sin, every
wickedness will arise from it. Oh Cecie, as
you hope one day to join your papa above,
think of what I say. Pray to God, for He
can and will help you, if you are earnest in
your prayer."

I will, I will, if you will only let me
stay," moaned Cecie, clinging tightly to her
mistress.

I cannot keep you, little one. I must
do my duty by the others." And despite
her entreaties, Miss Ainsworthy was firm in

VOL. I. D

her resolve, only deciding to send for the
uncle, Sir Hugh Stapylton, who had placed
Cecily with her, instead of the aunts the
child so much dreaded.

AT SIBTHOEP MANOR.

The gray hues of night were giving place
to the rosy brightness of an April dawn,
as two travellers stepped from the station
at Bodmin into one of the few flys
that were waiting for the express from
London.

"Best hotel" was the order, and five
minutes later they were standing before a
comfortable fire in the handsome cofi"ee-
room of the hotel spar excellence of the
town.

They were Cecily, and a tall, fair, and
unmistakably well-bred man. His features

D 2

were aristocratic, his eyes large and gray,
like Cecie's ; it was easy to perceive from
the marvellous resemblance between them,
that they were related.

The waiter, too sleepy to remember his
manners, noted the likeness, and said,

'* Private room, sir ? This way, sir ; shall
I tell the chambermaid to come and attend
to your daughter, sir ? "

The gentleman started, flushed crimson,
and with more precision than was necessary,
corrected the man.

This young lady is my niece ; be good
enough to tell the chambermaid to prepare
a bath for her. I shall require breakfast in
an hour's time, and a carriage to continue
my journey at twelve. Can you procure it V

Certainly sir, certainly ! " said the man
with a deferential bow, muttering to himself,
" He's a swell, I'll bet ; " then hailing
the porter ; *' Any name on the luggage.
Bob ? "

"Miss De Yere, Sibthorp Manor, Tree
Why that's forty mile away ! "

'' Any name on the gent's ? "

Sir Hugh Stapylton."

There, I knoweth he belonged to the
quality," the waiter said triumphantly.
Needn't a been so sharp about the little
'un been' his daughter, though. If they
ain't as like as two peas my name ain't
Martin Brown ; and as I have believed it
to be so these forty year, why I hope it is.
I don't want to make no change at my
time o' life."

In the sitting-room sat Cecie ; her large
mournful eyes fixed on her uncle's face.

"Uncle," she said pleadingly, "won't
you speak to me ? Can you not forgive
me?"

Sir Hugh's answer was to take her on
his knee and kiss her brow with deep
affection.

Forgive you my child ? It's not you

who need forgiveness, but those who have
taught you the dreadful habit for which
Miss Ainsworthy has been obliged to send
you away."

Cecie began to cry.

You mean Aunt A I mean Aunt

Maud ; she taught me when I was "

'hush Cecily," Sir Hugh said gravely,
you must not speak against your mother."

*' My mother ! what are you thinking of.
Uncle Hugh ? Thank goodness she is only
my aunt. Tell me Uncle, do you know-why
I may not call her Aunt Ada now ? I
always used to ; and it seems so strange
saying Aunt Maud instead. I always have
to think a moment before I can recollect
myself, and I am obliged to be very careful,
for she boxes my ears or sends me to my
room if by chance I do forget. Aunt Maud
is very unkind to me do you know Uncle,
and I so often wish I had a mother like
other girls. What was my mother like ?

Do tell me ; no one ever speaks to me of
her, and I should like to hear everything
about her. Do tell me."

Sir Hugh groaned ; the girl's eager questioning
seemed torture to him. " Shall
I tell her the truth ? " he murmured ; " no,
no — a thousand times no. Better though
perhaps, to tell her something of the truth.
Yes, she is old enough now to be made
to understand that."

Then aloud he said,

*' My dear, I am going to take you into
my confidence. I am going to trust you
Cecily, and you must prove yourself worthy
of that trust by keeping faith with me,
and not mentioning a word of what I am
going to tell you to anyone else. You
are aware that not three years ago your
aunts were on the stage ; through a legacy
they have been enabled to leave that
profession and settle quietly down. In
England there is so much prejudice felt

and shown against actresses, that your
aunts have rightly deemed it advisable
when trying to gain some position in the
society of Trepolpen, to change their
names to Maud and Evelyn FitzAlleyn.
In the quiet spot they have selected, the
chance of their ever being recognised is
very remote ; and it is clearly your duty
Cecily, to try and forget they have ever
been on the stage, and to adopt their new
names as quickly as you can. Your aunts
are anxious to lead quiet lives, and any
hint at their former occupation would
prevent their being received, so you
must try to aid instead of distress
them."

Yes Uncle, I will ; but about my
mother ? I have so often wanted to get
you all to myself like this, and ask you so
much about her. They will never tell me
anything."

Sir Hugh winced.

"Another time dear I will talk to you
about her ; what I want particularly to
say now is this. You must make up your
mind never again to be such a terrible
disgrace to us. A young girl like you
ought not to care for any other drink than
water."

"That is what Miss Ainsworthy said,
and she said if I did again the wicked
thing for which she sent me away, I should
never meet my papa in heaven. Did you
know him Uncle Hugh ? "

The blood rushed hotly to Sir Hugh's
brow, and fled as suddenly, leaving his
face deadly pale, as he muttered with a
half groan,

Oh, truly the sins of my youth are
finding me out ! "

Uncle Hugh, what is the matter ?
Why do you say such strange things ? "
demanded Cecie.

Nothing ! child, nothing ! I am only

very tired. See, here is the chambermaid.
Go to your room my dear."

When she was gone Sir Hugh flung
himself in his chair, and with his face
buried in his hands, sat deep in thought for
some time.

Try how she would, when she came
back, Cecily could not make him say
one syllable on the subject of her dead
parents ; only several times during the
journey she heard him murmur, 'Til
speak to Maud, Til speak to Maud I "

Cecily's curiosity had, however, been by
no means satisfied with her uncle's answer.
She was much older in heart and mind
than her years betokened, her early life
could perhaps account for this — in any
case, there was a very old head on Cecily's
young shoulders.

She had very soon perceived that her
uncle's answers were mere evasions, and
had noticed too his evident embarrassment

at her questions concerning her dead
parents. She had of late thought much
upon this subject, and there were some difficulties
which she greatly wanted smoothed
away. The assured positions of the girls
who had been her associates, had made her
feel very much ashamed of her two actress
aunts, and she did not need her uncle's
request to make their early life a dead
secret. A week in the company of girls
of high rank, had shown her that had they
known she was in any way connected with
the stage, she would have been tabooed
and perhaps expelled ; so after long cogitations
she decided, greatly to her own
satisfaction — that Mesdames Wilmot and
Yandeleur were in nowise related to her,
only people with whom her uncle had
placed her. Only she often wondered
why he could not have found guardians
for her in a higher sphere than her so-called
aunts; people who would bring her

out when her time came — for Cecily had
visions of London seasons, Court balls,
the grand tier at the opera, mornings in
the Eow, and the thousand and one evanescent
delights which fill the breasts of the
stately exotics as they burst into bloom.

The travellers reached Sibthorp Manor
just as the weary sun was reaching his
destination, and, ere he went — gilding all
around with that brilliant but fleeting glow
with which he bids the earth adieu.

It was a fair and lovely scene on which
his last glances were resting.

Trepolpen was a small and unimportant
fishing village, nestling down between
the cleft of the two high cliffs. It was
picturesque in the extreme ; the red roofs
of the houses contrasted richly against the
brown rocky cliffs towering above them :
and to relieve the sombre tones, the yellow
glittering sands, and the broad blue expanse
of ocean.

One rocky ridge jutted far out into the
sea, forming a sort of miniature Giant's
Causeway, gradually rounding, till it protected
some small portion of the bare coast
from the violence of the Atlantic, and
afforded a safe harbourage and anchorage
for the village fleet.

This ridge had, little by little been
smoothed, till it afforded safe footway for
the youngest or feeblest, and was now
called, by courtesy, the Pier, though more
familiarly known as Penrith's Edge ; Pen-ruth
being the name of the owners of
Sibthorp Manor, who had been instrumental
in preserving and smoothing the
ridge, for their own private, most likely
smuggling purposes.

Various comfortable country houses lay
around Trepolpen ; the Penrith had been
spendthrifts, and had been obliged to sell from
time to time, portions of the land that had
once been all their own for miles around.

Thus it came about that there was quite
a settlement around Sib thorp Manor, which
was the place pa?" excellence of the district.
These settlers where for the most part 
gentlemen — men who had run
through their fortune, and been obliged
to look out for a quiet place, where they
could take their wives and families to
live in comfort, and make fiYQ hundred
do the work of ten.

Needy as everyone was, they contrived
to keep up a continual round of small
gaieties, and to their equals, were without
doubt, the pl-easantest and most sociable
set of people going. They, one and all,
were people of family, and when a new
arrival appeared on their quiet scene, they
had to be well assured of his connections,
rank, and status, before they opened their
doors.

They had taken kindly to the FitzAlleyns.
Those artful ladies had learnt the ways of

the place before settling, and had a genealogical
tree hanging in their hall, which
traced them, directly back to the Baron
FitzAUeyn of Robin Hood memory.
They had the FitzAlleyn arms on every
available screen, oaken chair, and carriage
panel ; the crest on all the silver and
livery buttons, and on a large signet-ring
which Miss FitzAlleyn always wore, and
which had been her dear papa's.

She had also a curious antique-looking
brooch, with the crest interwoven amongst
roses and thistles, which her seventh
removed great grandfather had worn in
some famous battle to fasten in his plume.
The story of the battle was authentic,
and had been acquired and remembered
with a diligence worthy of a better
cause.

The simple folk of Trepolpen could not
afford to visit London, and rarely had
visitors from the great world, so the two

ladies were on easy terms with roan of
the grand folks of the day. To enable
Cecie — who was a stumbling-block in their
victorious career — to talk as glibly, and
a degree more truthfully in the same
strain, they had sent her to Miss Ains-worthy's.
Then they had Sir Hugh
Stapylton always to the fore — a man of
well-known family. So Trepolpen accepted
them at their own valuation and opened
its doors wide for them to enter.

Maud and Evelyn FitzAlleyn were seated
at dinner, when a loud peal from the doorbell
sounded through the house.

"Who can it be, Lyn ? " said Miss
FitzAlleyn. She always called her sister
Lyn ; she thought it sounded old-family's.

I don't know," Lyn answered. " I
hope it is no one of consequence, for the
D'Eyncourts and Fells come to-night."

But who can it be ? " again urged
Maud.

One of the old set found us out,"
suggested Lyn sweetly.

Don't say that, Ijjn," said Maud turning
pale. 'that would be too hard now."

IVe no suggestion to make, unless it's
something wrong with the Incubus."

Maud gave a sigh of relief. "I hope
she's not very ill," she said.

"But you'd be very glad if she were,"
Lyn laughed.

Maud had no time for a rejoinder, for
the butler entered with the information
that Sir Hugh Stapylton and Miss De Yere
had just arrived, and were in the morning-room.


I told you so dearest," said Lyn ;
delicately laying her serviette on the table
and rising.

"Confound the girl, what brings her
back ! " cried Maud, for the moment forgetting
the restraining presence of the
servants.

VOL. I. B

Lyn pursed up iter mouth into a
fascinating smile, saying in her polite
soft voice,

Oh Maud darling ! you naughty girl,
fie I ^q\ " and putting her hands to her
ears she ran gracefully from the room.

Evelyn FitzAUeyn was an actress to the
core. She never did anything without
knowing exactly what the effect would be,,
she was never surprised into being natural,
her true character and temper were kept
hidden from every eye, even to her own
sister she would not reveal herself. There*
was no blow she could not meet with a
graceful shrug and smile. Life was to hera
never-ending comedy-drama.

Maud was very different. She could not
always control her feelings; and, being a
woman of violent temper, there were times
when she forgot the vigilant watch she
was forced to keep over her unruly member,
and would rap out some startling expression

which she would have given worlds to
recall the next moment.

Flushed and vexed at the amazed look
on the butler's face, Maud, too, rose from
the table and swept haughtily from the
room.

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

CECIES EETUHN.

Entering the morning-room, there was an
angry frown on Miss FitzAlleyn's face that
augured ill for Cecily.

*this is quite an unexpected pleasure
Hugh," she said in an ominously soft voice.
What's brought you here Cis ? "

Cecie shrank back, afraid to answer, but
Sir Hugh interposed,

Some unpleasantness at school ; we
will tell you all about it after."

'Til be told at once," Maud said, angry
lines gathering round her mouth. " What
is it?"

I hoped it was the holidays," simpered
Lyn.

"Hold your tongue, Lyn, and don't bea
fool," Maud said sharply.

Lyn commenced instantly with a soft,
though meaning smile,

"Dearest Maud, pray don't be so
boisterous," but her sister turned from
her impatiently with,

"' Now Sir Hugh, out with it."

•' Let Cecie go to take her hat off, then,"
he urged.

"No. She shall stay. Goon."

Sir Hugh took a turn across the room ;
it was perhaps the most uncomfortable
moment of his life. He looked from the
angry imperious woman to the pale trembling
girl, and began, in a hesitating way,

She has been sent away from Miss
Ainsworthy's under most unpleasant circumstances."


Maud leant forward and asked a question

eagerly, with the manner of one who dreads
the answer.

'^ She can go back when it is settled."

'^I fear not. In fact, I am grieved to
say Miss Ainsworthy has refused to receive
her again."

'^ In short, she has been expelled," Maud
said, with that eagerness some people have
to sum-up the case and face the worst.

Cecie buried her face in her hands as the
grave answer was returned,

*^ Expelled."

There was silence for the space of a
minute. Maud stood aghast, petrified with
horror ; then, with one swift movement,
she seized Cecie by the shoulder.

'' What for— tell me what for ? "

I dare not," Cecie sobbed, terrified by
the fierce expression of Miss Fitz Alley n's
face.

Have pity ! " cried Lyn.

*pity ! I keep my pity for those who

deserve it. I do not sow it broadcast
amongst those who are only reaping the
reward of their own actions. What are
you expelled for ? "

Sir Hugh quietly put Maud aside ; and,
taking Cecie by the hand, said coldly and
quietly,

'for intemperance."

There was another profound silence ; the
shell had burst.

Both ladies had started back in horrified
surprise at the unlooked-for reply. Cecie's
fair head was buried on her uncle's shoulder,
her whole frame shaken with violent but
penitent sobs. In the girl's heart a prayer
was rising for help to conquer this dreadful
evil.

Miss FitzAlleyn was the first to speak.
In a hard melodramatic tone she began,

"Is this the way you repay me for all
my self-sacrifice and devotion to you ? You
cruel, wicked girl, thus to bring disgrace

and misery upon us all. Have we not
already had trouble enough, that you must
overwhelm us with this ! Through our
bitter misfortune my poor sister and I
were forced to strive to make a competence
for our declining years on the stage,
when an unexpected legacy enabled us to
leave that dreadful life and settle down in
ease; we determined to give you all the
advantages that were denied us, and by
giving you associates of your own rank,
hoped to make you a comfort and a credit
to us, and to see you well married. What
comes of all our trouble ? You disgrace
yourself, throw away the chance of making
a good position, and then return, to undermine
all the friendships we have formed,
and turn the world against poor Lyn and
me by your horrid habits. You are a
nurse to us, Cecily. You have been a thorn
in my side ever since you were born,
you "

'' Pardon me a moment' cried Cecily,
her face flushing, her whole aspect changing
from the drooping, sorrowing girl she had
been at the commencement of the sentence,
to a fierce, indignant woman. " Beyond
the fact that you have at times been kind
to me, I fail to see what right you have to
speak to me as you have just done. My
uncle simply placed me in your charge ;
and, I presume, made it well worth your
while to undertake the care of me. As
to the benefit you have done me in sending
me to a school amongst girls to whom I
dared not speak truthfully about my home,
I cannot see it, unless, indeed, Uncle means
to take me away from here and place mein
my true position. After having mixed
with my equals, I shall only feel the degradation
and untruth of my position more
keenly if I am forced to remain here,
and claim as my blood relatives two
ci-devant "

Hold ! " cried her uncle, as without a
sound Miss FitzAlleyn fell fainting to the
ground.

Cecie looked round aghast. Lyn and Sir
Hugh's face were as white as 'that of the
fainting woman.

What have I said ? " she asked.

Far too much," Lyn said in a hard,
unnatural tone ; " you had better go to
your room," and taking Cecily by the
arm, she drew her into the dining-room,
and ringing the bell, ordered the maid to
come and see to Miss De Vere.

Cecily, thus thrust out, was more perplexed
than ever to find a reason for her
aunt's sudden faintness ; it was evidently
caused by some chance word of her own.
But what word ? She recalled her whole
speech as nearly as she could, but could
find nothing in it to cause such emotion.
There was some deeper meaning in it all
than she could fathom, and she determined

to find out the whole secret, whatever it
might be.

The girl was not disturbed about her
aunt's seizure. She had never cared much
about her in her early days, and as she
grew up and her mind had been educated,
she grew to dislike and despise her for the
coarseness which she could not conceal.
Instead of worrying herself therefore, she
bade the maid show her over the house, as
this was her first visit to Sibthorp ; and
by the time she had reached the room
which was to be her own, she had arrived
at the conclusion that, were it not for the
presence of her aunts, there was no place
she knew she would rather call home.

Cecily sat by the open window inhaling
the sweet scents of the flowers, wafted to
her on the evening breeze, while the maid
unpacked her dresses.

Which dress shall I put out for you
to-night miss ? " she asked.

Oh I shall not bother to dress to-night ;
it's past seven already."

But there's company coming to-night,
miss, to practise for the concert that is ta
be next month. The singing is something
lovely when they all get together, trying
over part-music. One of the gentlemen —
Mr. Darrell D'Eyncourt — sings so beautiful
that they do say Mr. Reeves, the London
gentleman, wouldn't come to Exeter through
jealousy. Squire Martin said the other
day to old Job, the parish clerk, after
service, * Job,' he says, * that voice of
Mr. D'Eyncourt's will go on getting stronger
till it lifts the roof off our little church.'
Old Job, who is a gardener on weekdays,
and a thrifty soul, said, 'Well,
Squire, I'm main glad to hear it, for maybe
next summer it will reach as far as
Mrs. D'Eyncourt's pea-field, and frighten
away them horrid birds as eat all the
peas up this year'"

Cecie leant out of the window, and
her eye caught two figures on the terrace,
dimly visible in the gloaming. Sir Hugh
and Miss Fitz Alley n were just parting
as she caught sight of them ; Sir Hugh's
voice reached her.

Well Maud, I will go and dress if these
people are really coming ; but I hoped fora
long talk with you about Cecie, she
ought to be told "

Hush," said Maud in agitated tones,
some one may hear. Come to my
boudoir to-night when they are all gone,
and we three can talk it over. After
what she said just now, she must never
know the truth," and she beojan to
weep.

"She spoke in ignorance," Sir Hugh
said soothingly.

But she must never know," Maud
persisted; 'snow go, and I will send
Lyn to tell her to dress also."

Cecily drew in her head, and sat a
few moments thinking deeply, then she
said something very trivial to be the result
of such deep cogitation.

"This is a very pretty carpet. Pike."

*' Do you think so miss ? Mistress
did say she thought this would be to
your liking, but Miss Evelyn thought you
would have preferred rosebuds and moss."

I like this very much, and it's exactly
the same as the one in Aunt Maud's
boudoir, is it not ? "

"Oh no miss! That's Miss Evelyn's
room. 'Miss FitzAlleyn's has a carpet of
brown leaves, not near so pretty."

I thought you said the small room on
the stairs was Aunt Maud's boudoir ? "
Cecie asked carelessly, but with an anxious
look on her face.

No miss," the maid answered, resting
on the edge of the portmanteau she was
unpacking. "Miss FitzAlleyn's boudoir is

at the end of the long passage, at the
top of the grand staircase. There are a
lot of flowers and statues in the passage,
but I think you must remember the room
as you remarked what a fine view there
was."

Yes, I remember ; there is a large
statue by the door, is there not ? A Venus,
I think."

Well miss, I don't rightly know the
name, but Mr. Inn says it's one of the
celebrated beauties of the day. He was
telling Mrs. Cook so, when she wondered at
it's being put there. I believe he did say
the name was Venus."

Cecie muttered absently to herself,
Close to the door, that will do nicely,"
and she relapsed into thought till roused
to dress.

Very fair and pretty she looked in the
dark and perfectly-fitting blue silk she
wore, and Lyn's mental comment was,

"We must get you married. You'll spoil
my game altogether." Aloud she merely
said, " Why, Cecie, my pet, how pretty
you have grown ! We shall have all the
young men in the neighbourhood coming
here in flocks."

Cecie laughed and blushed, and putting

her arm round her aunt's waist, whispered,

Have you forgiven me ? "

Yes dear child," Lyn responded in the

same soft voice, and kissing her, took her

down the stairs.

"That's Aunt Maud's boudoir, is it not ? "
Cecie asked, as they passed the passage
indicated by Pike.

"Yes. Have you not seen it? Come
with me now, then ; it's such a charming
room."

Lyn passed into the room, but Cecie
was apparently too pleased with the flowers
and statues in the passage to care to
hurry on.

How lovely ! " she exclaimed, pausing
at the one Pike had spoken of. " How
beautifully arranged ! "

Yes," Lyn said, with some pride ;
'that was entirely my idea."

The door of the boudoir was close to
a deep embrasure, and in it had been
placed a beautiful sculpture of Venus ; but
to take away the hard appearance Reconsidered
statuary to have by itself, an
enormous azalea stood sentinel on either
side.

Cecie became at once enraptured with
them.

"I do believe you have got the worst
side to the front. Aunt Lyn. I'll get
round and see ; " and suiting the action
to the word, Cecie slid by the side of
the flowers, and was half-hidden by the
great masses of bloom.

She stooped down, looking at the flowers,
and called out laughingly to her aunt,

VOL. I. p

What bonny plants they are, auntie !
I don't believe you could see me now if
you tried ever so hard."

"No, that I can't," Lyn said, peering
amongst the blossom ; and, after a moment
or two waiting to see if her aunt could
find her out, Cecie emerged smiling and
full of merriment, but with an odd lookin
her eyes that puzzled Lyn considerably
when she thought of it afterwards.

With a few comments on the boudoir,
and the view to be got from its windows,
they passed on to the drawing-room.

THE PRACTICE.

An exclamation of pleasure and surprise
broke from Cecie as they entered the
drawing-room, she had not been prepared
for anything half so tasteful and charming
coming from the ideas that stood Miss
FitzAlleyn in the stead of artistic feeling.
A delicate blending of indefinable shades,
an arrangement of china statuettes and
flowers, each appearing to have grown in the
spot where they were placed, The Sibthorp's
drawing-room was a place to be pleasantly
remembered, long after it had faded from
the actual sight.

p 2

Again Cecie felt she could be happy
with such lovely surroundings, and a
dream of contentment was stealing over
her, which was rudely awakened by
a harsh laugh from the far end of the
room. It was the serpent in the Eden.
The enchanted palace was changed into
a dreary wilderness. A shudder ran
through her.

Oh, to be obliged to live with that
woman ! "

For weeks past she had only heard the
refined tones of well-bred women, and
the coarse voice of Miss FitzAlleyn, jarred
on her more than ever. Bitterly did she
regret the fault which had sent her back
to that woman ; and in that brief moment
she resolved to give her uncle no peace,
until he removed her from them forever.


"Let me introduce my niece, Miss De
Vere, to you Mrs. D'Eyncourt," said

Lyn. " She has come to us rather
unexpectedly. Her too-indulgent uncle
thought her looking rather pale when he
went to see her at school, and made her
start off at once to get some Cornish
roses ; now that we see how she has
budded into the young lady these last
few months, I don't think we shall be
able to spare her to the College again.
Shall we darling ? " and with a tiny peck
at Cecily's cheek, Lyn passed on,
repeating the same story to each group ;
till the reason of Cecie's sudden advent
was quite understood by all. Sir Hugh
and Miss FitzAlleyn among the number.

Cecie felt drawn to Mrs. D'Eyncourt
instantly; the soft pleasant face, shaded
by silvery hair and filmy lace, was an
object the eye seemed instinctively to
court, and she longed to have a better
opportunity of knowing her than the
present seemed likely to afford her, for

Sir Hugh and Mrs. D'Eyncourt seemed
fast friends, and were enjoying a tete-tete.
Apparently their conversation was about
Mrs. D'Eyncourt's sons, for their eyes
kept wandering to the two fine-looking
manly young fellows who were standing
in the group round the piano.

Cecie stole away to the window, and,
seated on a low seat, looked out into the
quiet night ; and, listening to the music,
thoroughly enjoyed the calm repose which
lies on everything in the sweet twilight
hours.

Suddenly Darrell D'Eyncourt began to
sing. He had a rich, but soft and sympathetic
voice ; a voice that thrilled the
heart, and touched all its tenderest and
holiest chords.

To the poor child listening by the
window, it seemed to bring forcibly before
her the wrong she had done, and spoke to
her of a higher, better life than any she had

known. A sickening sense of her own
unworthiness overcame her as she listened,
and bowing her head on her hands she
wept.

A soft touch came on her shoulder, a
gentle voice asked her what troubled her.

It was Mrs. D'Eyncourt, who seating
herself at her side, talked to her and soothed
her, until she was herself again. After a
time the two sons joined them.

"Darrell," Mrs. D'Eyncourt said, ''I
want you to join me in asking Miss De Vere
to come and see us. We are your nearest
neighbours, and I hope to see a great deal
of you. It will be really kind of you, if you
will come and see an old woman like me,
whenever you can spare time."

Cecie did not know how to take this kind
speech ; she cast down her eyes to. hide the
tears, and a hot flush overspread her face
as she thought of her secret, and wondered
if Mrs. D'Eyncourt would receive her if she

knew the whole truth. She murmured her
thanks.

"Will you let me come and fetch you
tomorrow, Miss De Vere ? " Darrell asked.
I should like to show you our garden. It
is nothing to be compared to yours in size,
but it is a very pretty one."

Yes, do come ! " Edward D'Eyncourt
chimed in. '' If you care for dogs, I have
some beauties. It is a promise, is it not ? "

With humid eyes, Cecie acquiesced, and
ere long the party broke up.

A LIFE BROKEN.

Darkness reigned throughout the Manor
House. Everyone had gone to rest, and the
whole house was dark and silent. In two
rooms only was there any sign of waking
life, Cecie's bedroom, and Miss EitzAUeyn's
boudoir.

Cecie knelt beside her bed in earnest
prayer, and when she had eased her heart of
its burden, rose, and wrapped a dressing-gown
around her.

I know I am doing wrong," she thought,
'' but still I must know the truth ; and
when I do know it, I will strive to be so

good. If my parents live, I will be a pride
to them, and if they do not, I will not bring
disgrace on their memory. I must feel
assured that these women are nothing tome.
What if I find they really are related
to me ! What should I do ? No, it cannot
be ! I will never believe the same blood
runs in our veins ; but solve this mystery I
must."

Gently unclosing the door, she stole into-the
passage, and having locked the door on
the outside, and removed the key, she went
swiftly and silently down the stairs, till,
without any hindrance, she found herself
safely at the statue, and slipping in behind
it, leant forward, and listened intently.

At first no voices reached her ear, and
she began to fear she was too late, when a
sudden sound at the end of the corridor-caused
her to shrink back into her hiding-place,
and a moment after, Lyn and Sir
Hugh passed into the boudoir.

Maud was waiting for them, and gave a
rather sharp greeting.

I expected you half-an-hour ago."

I am sure I must apologise' Sir Hugh
answered, "but Lyn came into the garden
with me for my last smoke, and the night
was so lovely we went farther than we
intended."

Now that you are here, what about the
child ? " Miss FitzAlleyn asked.

"This," said Sir Hugh firmly, "that
unless she is kept from falling into such a
habit as this one she seems likely to contract,
the allowance for her maintenance
will stop at once. You ought to have
prevented her thinking of such a thing
years ago. From what I gather you inculcated
it. Would it not have been better
to point out the disgrace people were who
did follow the path she seems likely to
tread, and — well Maud, you know I am nota
religious man — but could you not now

show lier how displeasing such a habit must
be in the sight of Heaven ? Show this to
her Maud, for pity's sake ! Think of her
youth and innocence, and save her from
herself."

That will do," Maud said, coldly. " I
am obliged to you for your lecture, but I
fancy I am quite capable of curing this evil
habit in my own way."

Sir Hugh was angered at the scornful
tone, and said hotly,

'* I would advise you to do your best, for
you quite understand the allowance will
stop the very first time I hear of any fresh
outbreak."

I daresay my plan will be as efficacious
as any lecturing. If I catch her touching
wine, I shall simply flog her."

I don't advise that treatment," Sir Hugh
replied. " You may beat the devil into her,
instead of out. Reason with her, show her
her fault, and I believe she will conquer it,

for love of you, and from the strong sense
of right, that underlies all her other
feelings."

''I shall do exactly as I think proper,"
Maud answered.

'rand I forbid such treatment."

How dare you interfere ? " Maud began,
furiously, but Lyn interposed.

This was not what we came to talk
about, so why dispute over it ? Would it
not be better to consider what is to be said
to her, to prevent any more misunderstandings,
and unpleasant scenes like that
of this evening ? What do you advise. Sir
Hugh?"

What I have always advised, that Maud
should tell her the truth."

The whole truth ? " Maud asked.

'* Yes, the whole truth ; that you are her
mother," Sir Hugh answered firmly.

Never ! " cried Maud, '' I "

The rest of her speech was lost in a moan

■of intense anguish, from outside the door,
instantly followed by a heavy fall.

All three, white and scared, rushed to the
door; the large azalea was overturned, but
no trace of any cause could they find.

Sir Hugh fancied he saw an object at the
far end of the corridor, and hurried towards
it, to find Lyn's large collie, with tail down,
looking the picture of alarm.

Cecie listening ! " Lyn opined, and flew
up the stairs to her door, to find it locked,
and neither light nor sound within ; so, convinced
of her mistake, she returned to the
others, and after much talk they laid the
noise at the collie's door, and retired to
rest.

As soon as the sound of Lyn's footsteps
had died away, a figure rose from a corner,
where it had been crouching, and passing
swiftly and noiselessly along towards Ceeie's
door, unlocked it and entered. It was the
girl herself.

Flinging herself on the bed in an agony
of despair, she murmured : " How am I to
bear it, how to live under this burden of
shame and misery ? God help me ! for
alone I cannot bear it. They talk to me of
bringing shame on my connections. Who
are they to have shame brought on them,
and what am I ? The nameless child of a
horrible woman like that. Why was I born
to bear this misery. I hate her ! and yet

she is my No ! I would die rather

than call her that name. What is to become
of me ? I have nothing to live for ; no one
to help me to be a good woman ; and I
loved the memory of my mother so. I
thought of her as an angel — and I find her
no, I will not add another sin — I ought
to honour her, and though I cannot with my
heart, 1 will at least keep from reviling her."

Then there was a long silence, broken
only by the girl's, deep sobs. At last, rising
from her bed she went to the window, and

throwing it up, gazed long into the silent
starlit night, and as she sat thus, her face
changed from that of a bright young girl,
into the stern set lines of a woman's who
felt herself injured and deceived. She
dropped on her knees, and clasping her
hands, raised her face to heaven and
murmured,

*' Here, before my God, I vow that the
name of mother shall never pass my lips,
and that from this moment my one thought
shall be how to free myself from this
woman. Henceforth I must live for myself
alone, and may my sins be laid at the door
of the woman who has caused them."

Cecie was spared the pain of meeting
Miss FitzAlleyn the next morning at the
breakfast-table.

As day broke, she fell into a heavy
slumber, from which she was roused by
Pike bringing her her breakfast, and with
it the intelligence that Sir Hugh had left

the Manor at eight o'clock, but as he
did not wish her disturbed, sent a note
to her to bid her good-bye. Pike had
further news ; Mrs. D'Eyncourt had sent a
message asking her to take early dinner with
her, and that her sons would fetch her at
twelve.

Thankful to escape the dreaded meeting,
Cecie took care to spin her dressing out till
the young D'Eyncourts arrived.

You don't look well this morning," was
Darrell's greeting. Cecie flushed hotly, but
made no reply, and somewhat silently they
started on their walk.

Through the summer fields they went,
chatting gaily and pleasantly. Cecie's
spirits revived each moment as she put a
greater distance between herself and the
Manor. Darrell D'Eyncourt seemed to
have a soothing influence over her, which
made her forget her troubles while with
him.

VOL. I. G

Oh, what a pleasant day that was ! How
happily she roamed through the pretty
gardens at Eaglescliff! How she enjoyed
the merry tea on the lawn. She was a little
queen amongst them, neither of the young
fellows seemed to know how to make
enough of her. Edward said openly how
he wished she had been his sister ; Darrell
was more silent, and did not divulge his
thoughts or wishes. Happy ! she was more
than that. It was a day to be remembered
long after it had passed away. A day to
bring a warm glow of memories over
her heart, when the world's troubles had
chilled it.

Cecie watched how the young D'Eyn-
courts spoke to their mother, saw the
happiness that was among them, how the
mother trusted the sons, and how the sons
loved the mother. It was the first time
she realised what mother-love was ; and as
she became better acquainted with the young

men, and saw what nice, thoroughly good
fellows they were, she knew instinctively to
whom they owed all.

Mrs. D'Eyncourt was seated on a low
garden-chair, with Edward lounging at her
feet, his elbow resting on her knee, and as
she talked she now and assail stroked her
boy's curly head, not with any ostentatious
show of affection, but half unconsciously.

Cecie noticed it, and a pang shot through
her.

Oh," she thought, " had I a mother,
how different I could be."

Mrs. D'Eyncourt saw the yearning that
was in the girl's heart shining out through
her troubled eyes ; for by-and-by she rose and
suggested their returning to the house, and
while "her boys" — as she called them — were
collecting the cushions and rugs, she found a
moment to take Cecie aside, and laying a
hand on each shoulder said,

Dear child, you may find it dull at the

G 2

Manor sometimes ; when you do, will you
come to me ? It will be a real pleasure tome
to have you, and I don't say it merely
as an empty phrase. Come whenever you
can — whenever you like, you poor little
lonely thing; let my boys be brothers to
you, and I a "

Cecie stopped the word on her lips.

*' Please don't say that. I could not bear

it. I will come often if I may — but "

and she stopped. She could not go on ; she
felt she ought to tell Mrs. D'Eyncourt all
about her leaving school, before she let her
make a friend of her — and she dared not.
She had so little brightness before her at
that moment, she could not dash what there
was to the ground ; so she silently kissed
her, and promising to come often, left them.

She went straight to her own room on
reaching home, professing to be very tired,
and wishing to go to bed ; so she avoided
the meeting for yet a few more hours.

When once more by herself, she opened
Sir Hugh's letter, which she had not before
had time to read. It was, as she had
expected, an earnest appeal to her to
struggle against her evil propensity, and
to overcome it, for the sake of all who
loved her.

Yes' she thought, " I will overcome
it. Mrs. D'Eyncourt is the only person
who seems to care about me here, and if
she came to know, she would not speak tome.
Miss FitzAlleyn taught me for some
reasons of her own — perhaps because she
wanted to keep me out of the way — but if
she has blighted my life in one way, she
shall not in that also. No, Uncle Hugh,
don't be afraid, I have to think of my own
interests now, and that would be against
them, so you need have no further uneasiness
on that score."

Cecie kept her word ; would that her
resolve had been based upon some better

foundation than self-interest. Poor misguided
child, why did your good angel hide
her eyes and weep at this, the turning-point
in your life, instead of being up and doing,
ready to defend you from the enemy that
ever lurks by the way ?

MES. Wed's at-home.

** Why Mabel, this is good of you ! I never
dared expect you to-night, in fact everyone
had decided we should see nothing more of
you till your book was out;" and the speaker,
a charmingly dressed little woman, rose
from amongst a circle of guests to greet
handsome Miss Ainsworthy.

I have been working so hard at my
proofs all day," Miss Ainsworthy answered,
that I thought I would give myself a little
holiday to-night, and come to you. Now,
you vain little woman, don't take all the
compliment to yourself — though no one else

would have tempted me out. A great
reason for coming was, that I knew that I
was certain of meeting two or three people
I very much wanted to see, besides yourself,
Fanny'

Well, whatever your reason, I am glad
you did come," Mrs. Weed answered,
laughing. She was one of Miss Ains-worthy's
best friends, the bright pretty
little wife of a famous and staid K.A.

As the two women moved through the
rooms, they passed two gentlemen who were
chatting idly in a doorway — one a tall
handsome man, rather past middle age; the
other a good specimen of the 'idler" tribe.

What a superbly handsome woman,
Stapylton," the latter remarked, as she
swept by them.

By Jove, yes ; and as nice as she is
handsome," his companion answered.

Mabel, at this moment seating herself
close at hand, raised her eyes' and noticed

him. She motioned him towards her,
saying in her low sweet voice,

I am so glad to meet you Sir Hugh,
I wanted to hear about Cecie."

And I," he answered, " have wanted to
see you on the same subject, but did not
like to intrude upon you. I assure you, I
quite agree with our hostess in rejoicing
that you did come to-night, not only on
Cecie's account, but on my own, as it gives
me the opportunity of renewing, and I
hope strengthening, a most charming
acquaintance."

Mabel laughed lightly ; she was well
accustomed to such speeches.

Yes," she said, " it was by the merest
chance that I came. I was tired of work,
and thought a little society would do me
good. But how is it I have not seen you
here before ? Mrs. Weed is one of my oldest
friends, and I hardly ever miss one of her
evenings."

Sir Hugh laughed, and looking at her
with a mischievous twinkle in his fine eyes
replied,

*^ A friend came to me this morning, and
asked me if I had any engagement for this
evening. I had but one ball on my list, to
which I did not intend going — we old
fellows are in the way at dances."

"Well," Mabel said, with an amused
glance at the handsome, anything but old,
face beside her.

Well," he echoed, " my friend said : ' I
am going to-night to Weed's ; come with me,
you'll meet most of the celebrities, and if
you are lucky, the most charming and most
independent woman in London.' I declined
thought I should prefer a quiet smoke — so
for inducement, he breathed the lady's
name. I need not repeat it to you. Miss
Ainsworthy, but merely tell you it acted on
me like electricity ; it roused me from my
apathy, and — here I am."

Mabel laughed, and yet sighed. She
wearied of these conventional fibs.

^' When you know me better Sir
Hugh, you will know that I have the
greatest objection to flattery. I think
compliments are good enough for girls
in their first season ; but to women,
they are insults to their commonsense."


"But sometimes they are involuntary,
and in this instance I but repeated my
friend's words,"

Are you sure those words did not
undergo a complete metamorphosis in the
repetition ? I should not wonder if the
root of that compliment was not, ' eccentric
or blues''

'the latter term would in itself be a
recommendation. What can be more
enjoyable than the society of a well-read
woman ? As for the former, no one who
Jiad had the privilege of meeting you could

apply that. If Miss Ainsworthy is eccentric,
the world is mach."

I believe there are many who call me
so. I presume my eccentricity, in their
eyes, is love of liberty and independence."

"And why should women not be independent,
and in the literal sense of the
words ' strong-minded V For myself, I hate
flabby-minded women, with no soul above
the day's dinner or the latest novel. It is
a real enjoyment to meet women whose
minds are so far advanced by education
and study, that they can enter into and
enjoy, the conversation of clever men."

Of course," Mabel said with an angry
sparkle in her eyes, " cultivate the minds
of women, to make them fit associates for
men."

Exactly so ; to make them something
more than mere playthings. To fit them
to be not merely the wives of men,
but their friends and companions, the

sharers of all their thoughts, hopes, and
aspirations."

But why should they not cultivate their
minds for their own benefit ? why should
they not strike out a line of their own,
independent of men ? "

I think that would hardly be conducive
to their happiness — they are naturally dependent
upon men. Those who try to
follow in men's footsteps, and make their
own way in the world, are not always the
happiest. They are constitutionally unfit
for the daily struggle with life ; in many
cases they become soured and old before
they have reached the prime of their
womanhood. I think further, that they
would be acting for their own benefit by
cultivating their minds ; they would make
their husbands happier, and through them
attain greater happiness themselves."

"But why should their every thought be
directed to making men happier ? "

Because it is a woman's mission to add
to the happiness of man. Their lives lie
in her keeping. A woman can make or
mar a man as she wills. Women rule the
universe ; there is no sphere, high or low,
in which their influence is unfelt. It is
surely a glorious mission, a great work that
lies before them, so to improve themselves
that they may have a better influence on the
creatures who are so hopelessly in their
power."

"Naturally — in plain English, all that
that comes to, is — educate women to listen
to the rubbish their husbands talk. I hate
that nonsense about missions — men wrap it
up neatly with a few sugar-plums about
ruling the universe, and so forth ; high-flown
sentiments that deceive a good many.
A sort of taking-advertisement, kind of
business ; glaring poster ; but taken out
of its silver paper and putting aside the
sugar-plums, a woman's 'mission,' looked

at from a woman's point of view, is no such
tempting and lovely thing. A woman's
mission ' is to be the slave of man. What
is termed a womanly woman, from the day
of her birth to that of her death, is
subservient to the will of man. It's her
mission ' to wait on her brothers, who are
good enough to break her in till she is old
enough to run in double harness. Her duty
then is clearly defined : she has to bear her
husband's tempers meekly, keep his house
economically, and regulate his servants — in
short, take a pride and pleasure in all the
daily worries and annoyances of a household :
in return for fulfilling her ' mission ' zealously,
she has sulks and brutality, if there
should be a hitch in the domestic machinery.
Women who submit to that sort of thing
deserve all they get. Why not be independent,
and fight for themselves ? and not be
in such a tremendous hurry to marry, and
put their necks under the yoke. Again, if

they are married, why not preserve their
own dignity, and force their husbands to
treat them with the same respect they would
show any other lady ? If the master is
displeased with his dinner, let him ring for
the cook and rate her ; but he has sense
enough to know the cook would not stand
it, but promptly give her month's warning ;
so he takes refuge in abusing his white
slave, the only servant on his premises who
can't give notice and leave ; the only being
he dares to show his real temper to. I
despise men; they are such cowards, and
above all so deceitful. You may know them
intimately for ten years, but never understand
their true character till you belong to
them, and escape is impossible."

"Oh Mab, Mab!" cried lively Mrs.
Weed, who in passing had caught the last
sentence ; " you inveighing against men !
You are the last woman who ought to,
considering the hopeless worship they are

always paying at your shrine. You know,
you naughty woman, you are the most
terrible coquette in London."

"And I hope to continue so," Mabel
answered viciously. " I enjoy hearing
stories of broken hearts — so called — when
they are about the sterner sex. Men in the
aggregate get so much the best of it, that it
affords me real pleasure to feel that in my
own circle I can count some who have been
considerably worsted."

Sir Hugh sighed deeply.

I'll own Miss Ainsworthy, that many
men do deserve your vengeance, from the
light way they hold the love they have
often been at great pains to obtain, but
I think women have far greater power of
ruining men's lives than they care to allow.
An unprincipled woman can hold a man in
bondage for his whole life, can put beyond
his reach all that makes life dear to others,
can turn all the sweets of life to bitterest

VOL. I. H

gall, and make him long wearily for the
one thins that can free him from his burden
death."

And this through no fault of his own ? "
Miss Ainsworthy asked half scornfully, and
yet evidently with deep interest.

'' Yes, through the fault of loving where
he could not esteem, through too great
deference for the wishes of others — in fact,
through weakness of character."

He folded his arms and bowed his head
on his chest, but Mabel could see the stern
set of the jaw, as though crushing down
some emotion. She felt such a strange
interest in him that she could not refrain
from saying,

Sir Hugh, you are speaking of yourself."

He started, confused and agitated.

"Of myself! Did I say so? No, oh
no ; you quite mistake me. Let us speak
of something else. When may I come and
see you about Cecie ? "

Forgive me for appearing curious," she
said, 'your story so interested me that I
involuntarily asked the question. About
Cecie, I have some friends coming to
dinner the day after tomorrow ; will you
join us?"

I shall be most happy if I may do
so, but shall I be trespassing too much
on your kindness if I ask you to let me
call on you tomorrow afternoon for a little
quiet chat ? "

'' I shall be very pleased if you will come
about four, and I shall be certain to beat
home."

Mrs.Waed again came to Miss Ainsworthy's
side.

"Now, Mab dear, if you have finished
your imprecations, will you give us some
music ? Sir Hugh, will you take Miss
Ainsworthy to the piano ? "

Mabel went willingly to oblige her friend,
and was soon delighting them with her rich

H 2

lovely contralto ; but the tete-tete thus
broken up, not another word did Sir Hugh
get with her till she was leaving, then,
calmly pushing through the crowd of
admirers who surrounded her, he carried
off the coveted prize to her carriage. He
lingered, leaning on the door.

Then I am to have the pleasure of
seeing you tomorrow ? " he asked.

Rather say to-day," Miss Ainsworthy
smiled, drawing a furry cloak round her
handsome shoulders.

"Yes, to-day; that is a nearer, sweeter
word than tomorrow," Sir Hugh said, ashe
absently watched her ; then he said
suddenly, '* you are crushing your flowers."

Yes ! why not ? " she answered with
a careless glance at a bunch of stephanotis
that nestled in the bosom of her lace
dress ; '* they have lived their life for me."

But not for me, if you will only give

them to me. I should keep them and prize
them."

Till you reached home, when you would
toss them into your grate, with a laugh at
me, and my folly in giving them."

If you will give them me, I shall keep
them in memory of a happy meeting," he
responded gravely.

Miss Ainsworthy hesitated, and he
pleaded earnestly,

My happy moments have been so few,
give them to me in memory of one bright
evening in my life ? Pray do not refuse
me."

The man who hesitates is lost ; but the
woman who hesitates invariably is saved.
Mabel hesitated, and gave time for pride to
come to her rescue. Drawing her cloak
savagely around her, she said,

I am a little sceptical about you prizing
them, and as I feel convinced they will

inevitably be tossed aside, I prefer doing
that myself. Good-nights'

Rather regretting her coldness, she looked
from the window as she drove on to bow
and smile, and saw Sir Hugh in the act of
raising something from the pavement and
of pressing the unknown object to his lips.

*' I wonder what that was'' Mabel
thought ; and discovered that a glove was
missing.

''He must have found it," she thought,
and a soft light stole into her glorious eyes ;
then she laughed scornfully, saying,

*' Surely, Mabel Ainsworthy, you are not
thinking of falling in love ! "

Sir Hugh's words, as he kissed the little
glove, would have somewhat startled her
had she heard them.

''Oh," he cried, "that one of us had
never beheld the light of this day ! "

A FRIEND IN NEED.

Two long weeks had passed away, and
Cecie was finding her life a very hard and
wretched one. She felt as if she were
living two lives : on the one hand were the
D'Eyncourts, the warm affection of the
brothers and the tender true love of their
mother always rousing in her all that was
best and truest in her nature ; and on the
other the wearing care which pressed upon
her daily and hourly. That secret which
she had • discovered seemed as though it
would wear away her life ; it never left
her, but was ever present night and day.

night and day. Beyond all this was the constant
never varying disgust of the two aunts,
who never failed to show her how much she
was in their way, nor how heartily they
wished her back at school or at the bottom
of the sea. Lyn invariably addressed her
as the '^ Incubus." All this unnatural strain
was telling on her health and spirits, and
Cecie was getting paler and thinner, till she
looked like a little sad visitant from another
world.

She had no one to whom she could
confide this trouble. Miss A ins worthy, incompliance
with a request of Sir Hugh
Stapylton'j, wrote to her frequently ; long,
kind, almost loving letters, that did her a
great deal of good in helping to keep the
best side of her character always to the
fore, but even to this good friend Cecie
could not confide her secret. She had
gone to Miss Ainsworthy's as a girl of

family ; she had boasted much about her
people while she was there. How then could
she write and tell her she was nobody's
child — a nameless disgrace ? No, Cecie felt
sure that if she wished to keep what friends
she had, that secret must be buried for ever
in her own breast. As soon as opportunity
offered she would marry, and then the poor
foolish child thought all her troubles would
be ended. The idea of the deceit she
intended to practise never troubled her.
Cecie's moral code was not a high one. Her
training had not been of the kind likely to
foster the higher nature.

Mrs. D'Eyncourt, who really liked the
poor child, began to get anxious about her ;
and though she personally regarded the
Fitz Alley ns with distrust and dislike, she
was anxious to do all in her power for
Cecie, so begged her aunts to let her come
to Eaglescliif for a month or two, to see if

young companionship would restore the
colour to her cheeks, and the light to her
eyes.

If Mrs. D'Eyncourt disliked the Fits
those ladies absolutely detested
her. Maud in especial, felt her own sense
of inferiority more with that quiet gentlewoman
than with any other of her neighbours,
and set it down to some haughty
manner of Mrs. D'Eyncourt's own. When
the kind old lady asked her to let Cecie
visit Eaglescliff for a time, Maud was so
patronising and gracious that twice Mrs.
D'Eyncourt felt inclined to walk straight
out of the house and leave Cecie to her
fate. Her kind heart conquered, and it
was arranged Cecie was to go.

A few days passed ; the girl enjoyed herself
as she thought she never should have
done again. Ending with one or both of the
brothers in the morning, lounging through
the afternoons, going for long delicious

drives when the evenings cooled — it was a
time to be long remembered.

Darrell gave all his time to her — at least
so much of it as was not monopolised by his
mother.

Cecie noticed with wonder how tender
those two young fellows were to their
mother ; they were more like daughters to
her than sons. They never seemed to care
to be out of her presence ; and when with
her, watching her with the most earnest
attention, supplying her every want, and if
a shadow crossed her quiet resigned face,
doing all in their power to chase it
away.

Cecie had grown to regard them as her
dearest friends. She loved Mrs. D'Eyncourt
warmly and tenderly, and the two brothers
she looked upon as though they were her
own. She accepted Darrell's attention with
a frank careless manner that showed his
mother in what light she regarded him ; and

though the mother felt sorry for her boy,
who, she could see, was on the verse of
loving their lonely little neighbour, yet she
felt a strong sense of relief that it was so.
It would have been hard to her to thwart
her boy's wishes; but, fond as she was of
Cecie, it would have been harder still to
share the ancient name of D'Eyncourt, with
one whose lineage was more than doubtful,
and about whom she felt convinced there
was a cloud of mystery.

Darrell was not discouraged by Cecie's
frank easy manner, he guessed she did not
yet know what love was, and looked forward
to the happiness he would have in awakening
the first love in her breast.

One morning the mother and Cecie were
left alone. Darrell and Edward had gone
to a cricket match ; as a natural sequence
the conversation fell on the absentees.

What are they going to be, Mrs.
D'Eyncourt ? " Cecie asked.

Going to be, clear ? " the mother
queried.

'' Yes, I suppose Darrell is too old to go
into the army, so he won't be a colonel like
his father."

Mrs. D'Eyncourt dropped her work into
her lap, and raising her eyes to heaven,
said fervently,

I pray they may neither of them in anyway
resemble their father."

There was a pause. The ladies were
sitting in the sunny garden, the spreading
branches of a fine old oak sheltering them
from the midday sun. Cecie gazed about
her at the flowers, watched the butterflies at
play, and had half forgotten her question
when Mrs. D'Eyncourt spoke again. She
was so startled at the agitated voice, that
she gazed hurriedly round, and saw her kind
friend's face ashy pale, her lips quivering;
unbidden tears rising to the soft eyes.

'^ I hope never to lose my boys," she said

Edward will have all my property when I
die, and Darrell will have quite a princely
income when his father dies."

Cecie started.

I thought you Is not your ?"

and then she stopped in confusion.

Have you not heard my story ? " Mrs.
D'Eyncourt asked gravely. '' My child,
you and I are to be friends, are we not ? "
and as Cecie slipped her hand into hers
in token of acknowledgment, she added,
*^ then we owe each other an explanation.
I will tell you the story of my life, and you
must be equally candid with me Cecie. I
tell you frankly dear, there are some things
I cannot quite understand about you, and
which I want made clear before I can be
quite sure that we are friends."

Cecie's face turned ashen white. Was
she going to question her about her
parents ?

What do you wish to know about me ?"
she asked hoarsely.

'don't put it in that way, my darling
child. I can't help seeing that you have
some heavy trouble. I don't want you to
think I am prying into your secrets, but if
it would be any relief or comfort to you to
tell it to me, believe me dear child, I Avill
give you my warmest sympathy and advice,
you poor little motherless darling."

Motherless ! " Cecie repeated, and then
broke out sobbing.

Did you never know her, darling ? "
Mrs. D'Eyncourt pursued, quite unconscious
of the dagger she was thrusting to the hilt
in the girl's heart.

Cecie was silent. Dare she throw herself
on her friend's breast, and there confess
her trouble — confess herself the base-born
daughter of a burlesque actress ? or should
she keep to the lie that had been taught her

SO soon as she could lisp ? If she told the
truth, would Mrs. D'Eyncourt grow cold and
strange to her ? Should she thus lose the
only friend she had ? It would be so she
felt convinced, but how was she to deceive
this woman who was so kind and good to
her ?

The question came again from Mrs.
D'Eyncourt, but this time in colder tones —
she feared her surmises were correct, and
read Cecie's silence as embarrassment. The
girl felt the change ; her mind was made up
instantly.

"No," she said, "my mother died when
I was born."

"And your father, dear. Do you remember
him ? "

No, not at all. He was a colonel in
the 17th Lancers, and, after my mother died,
always remained in India. He died many
years ago, and made Sir Hugh Stapylton,
who was my mother's brother — my guardian.

and Uncle Hugh placed me in the care of
Miss FitzAUeyn."

Are they not related to you then ? "

*' No," Cecie said, boldly enough — the
story once begun, it was so easy to run on.
I only call them aunts from having known
them so long."

Are you fond of them ? "

"No; I hate them and their horrid ways,"
Cecie said vehemently.

Why then, does your uncle not remove
you from their care ? I understood from
them that your father was a son of the
Earl of Windermere, and surely a girl of
your birth ought to be introduced into
society, and not left in a quiet out-of-the-way
place like this, with ladies like your
friends."

For a moment Cecie was completely nonplussed
; then she explained confusedly,
" My uncle does not wish me to go
into society yet. And there were troubles

VOL. I. I

Sit the time of my mother's death, and
these people were very kind, and so my
mother desired that I might remain with
them till I was of age, and arranged the
money so and all. Please don't ask me
what the trouble was. It had to do with
money and was very bad."

Mrs. D'Eyncourt kissed her tenderly as
she concluded, saying,

"My poor child, I am glad you have
told me, for I was always fancying there
Alas some terrible mystery about you ;
and I longed to know all before I let
you wind yourself too closely round my
heart. You must let me be a mother to
you, Cecie. I am sure I love you almost
as dearly as my own boys now ; " and
with another fond kiss, Mrs. D'Eyncourt
drew her seat nearer to Cecie's and
began :

*' I suppose I must be as candid with
you dear child, as you have been to me.

There is a something iu you child, that
makes me tell you my sad story ; and I feel
I ought to tell you, for the sake of my boys.
I was married at eighteen to a man whom
I worshipped. I have often thought my
troubles were sent me because I loved him
too dearly. For a few short months we
lived together in a perfect dream of happiness
; and then, one day, I discovered that
my idol was only clay after all. In a
word dear, I found that my husband drank,
and would go . on at it for months till he
would have a perfect fit of madness, and
then he would leave off for a short time.
When in his senses, he was the most refined
and polished of men ; but when under this
terrible influence, he would use the most
foul language, and at times was so violent
that his own servants hardly dared approach
him, and violent measures had to be taken
to prevent him doing himself a serious
mischief.

1 2

Imagine, if you can, the terrible life
I led. It was one struggle to conceal his
shame from the eyes of the world. Hardly
returning my wedding visits, I gave up
all society ; and people gave me credit
for being so fond of my husband, that I
cared for no other society than his ; but,
far from loving him, I had come almost to
hate him. I had a fixed purpose before
me ; I set myself steadily to reclaim my
poor husband ; I tried day by day to recall
him to his better, nobler self. But all in
vain; he either could not or would not
heed me.

"A little son was sent to me, and I
became more reconciled to my sad lot. I
nursed and loved my baby, and felt life
was not so bitter as it had at first seemed
to me. I was not however, even to find
happiness in him, for my husband grew
jealous, and began to upbraid me for
neglecting him for our boy, and told me

that had I only loved him, he would have
tried to be a better man for my sake. This
rapidly destroyed all the pleasure I had
taken in having my boy near me, and I
turned again resolutely to my weary and
hopeless task.

Three years of untold misery went by ;
years in which I lived in hourly fear for
my own life, and for that of my precious
Darrell. My husband's temper was now
so morose, when not under the influence
of drink, that everyone was in terror of
him. Then I had another son, my Edward ;
but not with the same happy feelings did
I welcome his coming as I had welcomed
Darrell's. I dared not show my pleasure
in the new-born babe, for fear of rousing
my husband's fierce temper. Instead of
being annoyed at the new-comer, he seemed
quite pleased with the baby, and offered
to take the care of Darrell off" the nurse's
hands during my illness. After I was

well he still continued to notice the boy,
and would take him into the library with
him, show him pictures, and teach him
different words. One day, going quietly
into the room, I heard him teaching the
boy an infant's prayer. Oh, the joy of
that hour ! I thought my husband was
saved, my earnest prayers at last heard ;
and it indeed seemed so. For nearly three
months my husband was his old self again.
Oh, what three sunny months they were !
All my old love returned in tenfold force ;
and sometimes, when I sat on the lawn
with my husband and my boys, I thanked
God for the trouble He had sent me, as
it enabled me so much more fully, to glory
in my present bliss. But the end came.
One day my husband returned with the
old flash in his eyes, the old uncertain
way of talking, and my heart sank within
me, for I felt something terrible was coming.
He insisted on Darrell's dining with us.

I was glad lie noticed the boy, though I
could clearly see he was not in a fit state
for his child to look on him.

Darrell came in to dinner ; and when
the cloth was drawn and the dessert put
on, you can imagine my horror to see my
husband fill my boy's glass with wine to
the brim. He turned fiercely on me when
I remonstrated, saying he meant to make
a man of the child. I would not stay to
see my poor darling thus early inoculated
with his father's vice, and withdrew hastily
to the drawing-room, whispering to Darrell
as I passed him,

' If Dal loves mamma he won't drink
that nasty stuff.'

A few minutes after there was a confusion
in the hall, and a scream. I rushed
out to find the men crowding round the
dining-room door, from whence another
scream issued. Then I heard my husband's
voice raised in furious tones, and rushing

through the frightened crowd of servants,
I flung the door open just in time to see
my husband fling a heavy decanter at my
poor boy, the force of the blow sending
the child reeling against the wall, and I
caught him in my arms as he fell senseless,
his little white forehead all cut and
bleeding.

I think a new spirit took possession of
me at that sight. Ordering the servants to
take Darrell to his nurse, I closed the door,
and spoke to the inhuman creature to whom
I was bound till death parted us.

** I don't know what I said. In those
few minutes all the pent-up wrongs and
miseries of years leapt forth, and I spoke
as I had never done before. The \veak
patient wife seemed to have become a fierce
accuser. For a few moments he seemed
petrified with astonishment, and then came
such a storm of words on either side that
even now I shudder to recall the scene. At

last, enraged beyond control, he seized mein
his strong grasp, and flinging me from
the door, which I was barring against him,
rushed from the room.

*for a moment I was helpless; but
fear soon brought me to myself. ^ My
children ! ' I thought, and sped swiftly
to the nursery, to find him already there
struggling with the nurse for my boy.

"For the time he was utterly mad ; and
had it not been for the timely arrival of
aid, God alone knows what might have
happened. Hearing the noise, the menservants
rushed in, and being so well accustomed
to the task, soon pinioned and
overcame their master.

"In a moment my future course lay
clearly before me. I bade the men take
him into an adjoining room, and remain
locked in with him until he should recover ;
and knowing these fits were, as a rule,
of some hours' duration, I called all the

rest of the servants to my aid, and set
to work to pack everything that belonged
to myself or children, and with my babies,
nurses, and luggage, left the house as morning
dawned. Driving to the station, we
took the first train to London, and, with a
short delay there, were soon en route fora
small estate in Wales, which most providentially
had, with a comfortable income,
been settled on me at my marriage.

There I was free from my tormentor, and
there I felt the first happiness I had known
since I had learnt the truth about him.

"At last he found me out, and came
down to make terms.

I had long been expecting him, and felt
no surprise when I saw him driving towards
the house ; but at once sent nurse and my
boys to a room we had singled out for this
very purpose. It had two entrances, and
therefore two modes of egress, one leading
down the great staircase to the hall, and

the other down a small stair, from which a
door led directly into a thick part of the
shrubbery. After bidding my two trusty
men-servants to be ready to come to me
the moment I touched the bell, I waited for
him.

"Our interview was shorter and more
peaceable than I had dared to expect. He
urged and entreated me to return to him.
I, on my part, refused utterly to comply
with his wishes, and told him moreover
that if he tried to force me to return, or in
any way to seek to see me or my children,
I would expose his conduct to the whole
world, and get separated from him. He
seemed completely cowed ; perhaps he was
unprepared for such determination, and left
the house saying he would think of what I
had said.

'soon after I had a letter from his
solicitor, saying he had been instructed
to draw up a. deed of separation, which

only needed my signature. I appointed a
day, and telegraphed for my own man of
business, and we both signed the deed,
which, when it was read to me, I found
contained a binding promise from my
husband to leave all his property at his
death to Darrell.

I wept when I heard this ; it was so
much more than I had expected. I had
feared he would disinherit the boy.

Seizing the moment of my softening,
he begged to be allowed to see the
children again ; and feeling that it was to
be for the last time, I sent for them.

My tears flowed fast as I saw the
mournful tender way in which he kissed
them, and bade Darrell say ' Papa ' for
the last time he was ever to hear it. In
my heart I felt as if duty called me again
to his side, and had he looked near me
I fear I should have done so; so strong is
love, and so weak is woman. Happily, he

never even glanced at me, and the soft feeling
passed away, and I became stone again.
Shortly after that we came to live here,
and here we have been ever since. My
husband is not dead yet, though how he
manages to keep life in him, living as he
does, is a marvel to me. Still, he lives,
and has never broken his word about his
boys. You can now well understand why
I love my boys so fondly, and why I
watch them with such care. I sometimes
fear the evil must have been born in them ;
so to save them I have told them the same
sad story I have told you, and they, dear
fellows, seem to strive all in their power
to make me forget the sad past, and trust
to them for my peace and happiness.
Still dear child, fondly as I love my boys,
there is plenty of room in my heart for
you ; and if you will let me I will try to
be to you something like the mother you
have lost."

'' Don't, don't speak of her ! " Cecie cried
excitedly.

*' But wliy my child ? "

I shall go mad if you do 1" she cried.

'' Can you not bear to think of your
mother ? "

No," passionately ; " never speak to me
of her again. When I hear the name of
mother ' I wish I were dead ; " and rising
hastily, she fled indoors.

When some long while after she sought
Mrs. D'Eyncourt, that lady was too perplexed
at a subject in hand to notice her
guest's swollen eyes, or comment on her
strange conduct.

We shall have quite a gay time, Cecie,"
she said ; "an old college friend of
Darrell's wants to come to us for a short
while. I believe he is a very nice fellow,
a baronet, and if report speaks truly, a
millionaire. I knows my bad boys will
insist on all sorts of gaiety in honour of

you both, and I am glad for your sake,
dear child, that we shall not be so dull as
I feared."

Cecie embraced her, assuring her that
she had never felt the least in the world
dull ; but in her heart of hearts she was
delighted at the prospect of the visitor.
''A baronet and a millionaire," she said to
herself. " Why should he not free me from
this bitter bondage ? "

When Darrell returned and heard the
news, he did not appear so delighted at
the idea as his mother had expected him
to be. In the presence of this friend
he foresaw a possible rival.

SIR HERBERT Mainspring.

The expected guest arrived in due course.
Cecie was intensely disappointed to find
hi in a sandy-haired, clumsy fellow, with
no sort of manners, and a bearing that
would have been better fitted for a stable
than a drawing-room. Cecie had expected
as polished a gentleman as her uncle, and
this coarse individual was an unpleasant
surprise to her. Still, he was Sir Herbert
Mainwaring, of Mainwaring Hall, and was
not a man to be despised ; he was very
rich, and a baronet to boot, and Cecie
had not been to school without learning

the value of a rich parti ; so she dressed
herself in her most becoming style, and
decided that through this most unpromising
youth she would have a struggle for
emancipation.

When the evening was over, and the
young men were having their post-prandial
pipe before retiring to rest. Sir Herbert
observed,

By Jove Darrell, what a pretty little
girl that is ! "

'^ Do you think so ? " he answered carelessly,
though his face flushed angrily at
the free-and-easy manner in which his
friend mentioned her.

'eyes; there's breed about her I should
think, though for my part a little of her
society would go a long way. She's rather
too bread-and-butter for my taste ; rides
a little,' but never hunted ; and don't
know the points of a horse. It seems tome
that if it weren't for that pretty face

VOL. I. K

of hers she would find herself rather in
the background. She's a neat figure,
and "

Really Mainwaring, I must beg of you
to exclude Miss De Yere from our conversation,
unless you can speak of her in
more respectful terms."

^' Phew ! " whistled the baronet, making
a sign at Edward. "So the land lies that
way, does it ? Sweet on her, eh ? Well,
my dear fellow, don t fear for me. I promise
not to poach on your preserves. I
like something with a little more go in
it. Fun is all very well, but I like wit my
boy, wit."

Having so little of it yourself," chimed
in Edward, to avert the storm he saw
gathering on his brother's brow.

Sir Herbert rose, and seizing Ned by the
collar, gave him a playful shaking, saying,
as he tossed him off into a chair,

If you were not a minor and therefore

not accountable for your actions, I^d have
you out for that little speech."

Bloodthirsty man, avaunt ! " Ned cried,
striking a tragic attitude. ''To one of my
tender years, I wonder you have the heart
to mention pistols and coffee for two, at the
Hotel Quelque chose, Boulogne-sur-mer."

Darrell could not help laughing at the
way Ned delivered his speech.

'you were born for the stage'' he
laughed.

"The stage!" Ned cried; "oh thou
whose hits are ever happy, why should
we not have a little acting on our own
account, to do honour to our two distinguished
visitors ? "

"The mother would never consent,"
Darrell said.

"I would add my persuasions to yours,
Ned," Mainwaring interposed ; "we had
some when I was staying in Lincolnshire,
and they were really most delightful.

K 2

You'll be the lover Darrell, I the heavy
villain, Ned the inquiring youth who is
always looking after everybody's business,
and little Miss What's-her-name the artless
maiden, who can make big eyes at everyone,
and trip about with nothing to say
for herself till the climax, when she will
fall into Dare ell's arms, and Ned and I
jostle each other to bless the happy pair.
There now, I've done it again ! Dare ell's
looking so thunderous that I had better
make off before the storm bursts. Goodnight
! "

Darrell felt it impossible to be angry
with his friend, he was so jovial and
good-natured ; but still he felt annoyed at
the slighting way he seemed to speak of
Cecie.

The days wore on, and Sir Herbert kept
his word. He amused himself a great
deal with Cecie when there was nothing
better to be done, or he felt dull, and the

girl very soon discovered that though he
flirted lightly with her, he was not
fascinated by her, nor was he likely to
become so.

When the first disappointment had worn
off she rather liked him ; he was genial
and honest, if rough and rather uncouth ;
and though he showed signs of violent
temper and sulky disposition, she would
gladly have overlooked them had he seemed
much taken with her. She did not care
in the least about him, but she thought
he could set her free from her bondage.

She never gave Darrell a thought, he
was to her a nice kind brother ; but he,
foolish boy, could not or would not understand
it, believing that she must love him
because he loved her.

Mrs. D'Eyncourt gave in to the importunities
of the young folks, and had
consented to charades or tableaux vivants,
and had herself suggested that this amusement

should follow a garden party, and
the week after promised them a ball for
Cecie's birthday. She was almost forced
to regret her clemency during the time
that intervened, for all the worry and
management of the whole affair devolved
on her. Not only was she assailed by her
own family as to postures and costumes,
but, her taste being so good, letters were
constantly coming from the other participators
in the tableaux, begging for her
ideas on such and such a subject.

At last however, all was arranged, and
the day of the garden party arrived — a
gloriously fine one. Cecie, becomingly
arrayed in pink cambric, flitted hither and
thither, as happy as a queen.

Crossing the lawn, she was met by Sir
Herbert, carrying a delicate bunch of white
flowers. Dropping on one knee before her,
he laughingly presented them, with the
words.

'' To the fairest of the fair''

Cecie blushed as she took them, saying
half resentfully,

"I wish you did not always talk such
nonsense."

*' On my honour," he said, ^*it was not
nonsense. I would bet five pounds you will
be the prettiest girl here to-day. I salute
you as the queen of beauty ; " and he raised
her hand to his lips, as he did so gazing in
her face with a glance, half of merriment,
and half of amusement.

Of course Ned arrived on the scene at this
most inopportune moment, and Cecie could
only wonder whether he had really meant
what he said, or had only been laughing at
her.

Darrell had watched the scene from one
of the windows, and ground his teeth with
rage at the quiet way in which she
endured the hateful salute. He determined
such a thing should not occur

again, and that he would speak to her that
very day.

'homme propose, mais Dieu dispose'*
Darrell found a tennis party not at all the
opportunity for making sweet confidences.
Cecie was in the midst of all the mirth and
fun, and he found it quite impossible to say
two words to her.

'presently," he promised himself; and
endured pangs of jealousy as he saw her
surrounded by a crowd of admirers, but
everywhere followed by Mainwaring as by
her shadow.

That astute youth had soon discovered
that Cecie undoubtedly was the prettiest
girl there, and being one of those men who
value people by the way others esteem them,
no sooner did he see her courted and admired
by everyone, than he established himself as
cher ami, and wondered at himself for
being so long in finding her such an attractive
girl.

"I'll show these yokels they can't easily
cut out London men," he thought, and set
himself the agreeable task of flirting desperately
with the " little one," and succeeded
in duly impressing the " yokels " that there
was something between him and Miss De
Vere.

The Misses FitzAlleyn of course were
present. They were gorgeously attired in
the latest fashion ; Lyn in a gown of gray
plush of wondrous build, and so tightly
made that breathing became an art. Little
blue bows were dotted all about it, and gave
it a very youthful appearance.

Both ladies smiled placidly at the evident
attention the unknown youth was paying
Cecie.

Fancy, if it's a chance of shifting the
Incubus ! " Lyn suggested, in soft accents.

I wonder who he is, and if he is worth
hunting up ? " Maud responded. " If he
pays her as much attention at the dance on

Tuesday, I should think I might seek an
introduction, and ask his intentions. What
do you think ? "

'that it wouki be a trifle premature,
and if he got ofi", would prevent anyone
else going near her. However, I'll go and
get to know who he is; and dear, if you are
introduced before I return, say very little,
and pray don't laugh."

What do you mean ?" Maud demanded.

'well, you know dearest, you are
vulgar, and to those who are not
accustomed to it, your laugh is too
hearty and too loud to be ladylike. Oh
Maud," with a deep sigh, " how much
better we might have done if you had
only been more refined!"

"Like you are I suppose, so wonderfully
refined that you don't know the truth
from a lie. I wonder where you would have
been if I had not educated you, and paid
for your fine firkin manners ? Of course

you are ungrateful — that I expected ; but
I have my reward in other ways. When
I look at you and your fine ways, I always
have the satisfaction of thinking that, if
paying for a thing makes it yours, they
are certainly mine, for they cost me a
pound a week when, to tell you the honest
truth Lyn, I was only making thirty
shillings."

"Well," Lyn responded, "don't let us
spoil the charm of getting rid of the Incubus
by quarrelling. You are a good kind soul,
but you are vulgar, and you know it. Take
my advice, and keep as quiet as you can
until something is settled. I have heard
that a baronet has been staying with
Madam D'Eyncourt, and if this is the man,
and he slips through our fingers, Cecily
ought to be flogged for not writing and
telling us about him."

Lyn disappeared, and Maud was left
to her own devices. She thought the

advice just received good, so decided to
follow it till she heard the report on Cecie's
admirer.

She turned into a shady walk, very quiet,
and apparently unfrequented. She found
a seat and amused herself building airy
castles, from the windows of which she
could, on a clear day, with the aid of a
powerful telescope, get a faint glimpse of a
clump of trees which surrounded the house
wherein dwelt Cecie, with a well-to-do
husband.

Suddenly she heard voices approaching —
Cecily's and that of a man. She strained
her ears to catch what they were saying,
and as they seemed passing behind the
group of shrubs where she was sitting, she
rose and advanced amongst the shrubs,
hoping to hear more clearly.

*' Cecily," the man was saying ; '^ what
a sweet name it is. Cecie ! I wish I might
have the privilege of calling you Cecie ! "

Maud, straining her ears for the reply,
received a violent push in the back, and,
turning angrily round, saw Lyn looking
greatly agitated.

Come away Maud, they'll see you ina
moment! He's a rich baronet, and everyone
thinks desperately gone over her.
They'll be upon us in a moment ; we must
feign not to see Cecie ; the girl's sharp
enough to see we don't want to be seen :
but for goodness' sake don't let us be introduced
before he has proposed."

"Yes, I daresay you're right, and we
don't want him to cry off ; " and Maud
hurried to reach another clump of trees, asa
flutter of pink came in sight.

He certainly would ' cry off,' if he saw
us ; he's a man of the world, and would
see the brand on us ; would know us for
ci-devant actresses."

'^ Miss FitzAUeyn,'' a voice behind them
said, "I have not had the pleasure of a word

with you yet. Don't hurry away so fast ;
your niece and my oldest friend are just
approaching."

It was Darrell D'Eyncourt. How much
he had heard they could not tell ; but they
felt confused and in his power. Neither
lady could do more than murmur a monosyllable,
and wait till Cecie reached them.

Darrell had in reality lost the whole of
Lyn's speech. He had heard them planning
to get out of the way before the baronet
reached them, lest he might not approve
of their appearance; and, as Darrell most
heartily wished his friend would " cry off,"
he determined to bring a meeting about.

When Cecie saw them she would fain
have turned back ; but she was too near
them to make such an act possible, so put
the best face on the matter, shook hands
with her aunts, and stood silently by while
Sir Herbert was introduced. Lyn's instructions
proved invaluable. Miss FitzAlleyn

neither laughed nor spoke, but left Lyn to
coo in her gentle way for them both.

Sir Herbert was evidently not too
charmed with the ladies. Cecie saw at
once that he had estimated them rightly,
and when they moved towards the tennis
lawn was not unprepared for the remark,

'' I thought you belonged to the Windermere
family ? "

So I do," Cecie answered readily ;
my father was the earl's third son."

Your mother was a sister of Sir Hugh
Stapylton's ? " was the next inquiry.

'eyes ; why do you ask ? Did you know
her ? " Cecie asked trembling.

"No ; I was only wondering on which
side you were related to the Misses
FitzAlleyn."

Related to them ! " Cecie cried in horror.
Oh, they are no relatives of mine, only
people I live with. I say 'Aunt' because I
have known them such a very long time."

'* Humph," the young man said to himself,
*' they are queer guardians for a girl
of position ! There's a screw loose somewhere
; " and to Cecie's great chagrin he
perceptibly fell off in his attentions.

Lyn, who was much too anxious to be
rid of the Incubus to mind a little present
trouble, very soon saw the change in his
manner, and by a not very subtle process
of reasoning came to the conclusion, that if
the quarry was started at the very sight of
them, he would take wings and disappear
entirely if he had the honour of a few
moments' gentle banter with her sister.
Knowing full well that persuasion or remonstrance
would alike be useless to get
her away, Lynn was suddenly overcome
with heat and fatigue, and became so
alarmingly ill that she was obliged to go
home, and of course Maud went with her.

For the sake of the servants she was
helped out of the carriage, divested of her

costume, and placed on a cosy sofa in
Maud's boudoir. "With astonishing talent
she kept up the deception till it was too
late for Maud to return alone ; and at last,
in reply to Maud's reiterated inquiries, she
suddenly sat upright and answered,

My good sister, I never was better in
my life; but I wanted to get you away,
so shammed faintness. We should have
lost our chance had we stayed, as it is
I feel nervous about her. Anyway, we
won't go to the ball."

Miss FitzAlleyn's reply is not on record,
it is better understood than expressed.

VOL. I.

The fruit that will fall without plucking
Is rather too ripe for me.

The tableaux were a great success. Everyone
of them had gone off without a hitch.
The actors were full of pride, and the
audience enjoying themselves, when the
curtain rose on the last. It was " The
Huguenots," represented by Cecie and
Darrell.

Very lovely the girl looked, in her rich
black velvet dress, her golden hair seemed
brighter than ever against the sombre coat
of her lover. She had entered into the
spirit of it, heart and soul, and her face
wore a tender pleading look, as her slim

fingers essayed to fasten the badge.
Gradually the expression on her face
seemed to be reflected on Darrell's, and
the picture was perfect. For some moments
there was deep silence, and then came
an enthusiastic burst of applause which"
threatened to upset the tableau entirely.
Twice it was recalled, and as Cecie for the
last time freed herself from Darrell's embrace
he whispered,

I have something to say to you ; linger
after the others, and I will meet you here."

With a murmured assent Cecie moved
away, and by the door met Sir Herbert,
his bright face clouded, and looking somewhat
angry.

How did you like ^ The Huguenots ' ? "
she asked.

Like it ? " he returned savagely. '' It's
good asking me that! Of course, there
is nothing I enjoy more than seeing another
fellow's arm round you."

L 2

What do you mean ? " she demanded,
a thrill of triumph trembling through her,
her breath coming quick and fast as she
waited for the next speech.

"Mean!" he echoed roughly, "why,
That IVe had enough of this, and am going
to bed. I think I had better say good-bye.
Miss De Vere, for Fm off in the morning."

So suddenly ! Oh, don't go," she said,
feeling far from displeased at the turn
affairs seemed taking.

"Fd better," he rejoined sulkily.

"Do change your mind; I hope you
will." She passed out of the room and
along a dimly-lighted passage, pausing at
the foot of some stairs leading to her room.
Don't go," she pleaded.

"Well," he said, taking her hand, "I
won't go if you will make a small sacrifice
to keep me. Indeed, I think you owe me
something for flirting so desperately with
Darrell."

What is it ? '* she asked, smiling, and
not withdrawing her hand.

Give me a kiss," he said, drawing her
towards him.

She paused a moment to reflect, and
then, thinking herself so secure of him,
lifted her lips to his, and fled up the
stairs.

"Well !" said the young man to himself,
I declare I thought better of her ! I
wonder what Darrell would think if he knew
that I had only gone to the very edge
of his preserves, and the game had come
flying to me to be slaughtered ! If he
gets her I wish him joy ; but it's taught
me a lesson. If ever I want to marry a
girl, I won't ask her to kiss me on the
sly. If she did I should hate her, and
if she didn't I should not like it, so I
think I had better leave it alone:" having:
arrived at which logical conclusion the
baronet returned to the ball-room.

Cecie dressed in a great flutter of excitement,
and as she cast a last look at
herself in the mirror, she said,

"When next I look at you Cecie, you
will be the future Lady Main waring."

Tripping gaily down the stairs she remembered
her promise to meet Darrell,
and as she approached the library, she
saw him standing in the gloom looking
stern and reproachful. A guilty flush
overspread her face.

''I forgot — I mean I hope you have
not been waiting for me."

"No," he answered coldly, "I found
that one minute's conversation with Main-waring
seemed to drive all thoughts of
me out of your head, so I dressed myself
and returned here to speculate whether it
would ever occur to you to remember me."

'* Oh Barrel], how unkind you are!"

"Am I more so than you?"

"I did not mean to be, indeed," she

said earnestly, feeling so happy herself
that she did not wish to cause anyone
pain. '^I was only in a hurry, and —
and forgot."

"I felt it deeply, the more so that I
had something of great importance to say
to you."

"What was it?" she asked carelessly,
buttoning her glove as she spoke.

'' Is that the way to treat serious
matters V he said passionately. " I fear
the time is ill chosen, but I cannot delay
longer, I must tell you to-night what is
in my heart. I love you Cecie, will you
be my wife ? You must have seen everyday,
every hour, how I loved you. Did
you not know what I would say to you
that you asked me thus carelessly?"

Cecie sank on a chair ; she was completely
overwhelmed ; she had never
expected this.

Darrell fancied his vehemence had

frightened her, and bending over her,
said tenderly,

Forgive me, Cecie, I have alarmed you ;
but if you can for one moment realise the
depth of my love for you, you will pity
and pardon me. Take this weight of
anxiety and doubt from me. My darling,
I love you, will you trust your future
in my hands, and be my fondly-cherished
wife?"

He paused and waited for her reply,
but it came not.

Cecie was in the deepest perplexity.
She had kissed Sir Herbert, but then,
after all, what was a kiss — and Darrell
had proposed and Sir Herbert had not
as yet. She was quite alive to the truth
of the old saying about "a bird in the
hand" being worth " two in the bush ; " and
yet she had an uncomfortable feeling about
that kiss. If she accepted Darrell she
would have to tell him, and there would

be a fuss; and Darrell was so strict,
perhaps when she did tell him he would
make a fuss with Sir Herbert, and break
it off with her. Had it not been for
that unlucky kiss she would have accepted
him, but as things were she thought herself
bound to wait for Sir Herbert to
speak. Then Darrell would be so rich,
and she loved his mother ; but Sir Herbert
was a baronet — a sort of doubt fluttered
across her mind as to whether Sir Herbert
was in earnest ,' but she dismissed the idea,
and determined, to save all bother, to refuse
Darrell and wait for his friend. Her silence
was so protracted that he spoke again.

'why are you so silent, Cecie ? Is it
possible that you doubt what answer to
give me ? "

"Dear Darrell," Cecie answered, ''I am
so sorry, so grieved ; I had not any idea
that you really cared for me'' This was
strictly true, and she was inwardly much

provoked with herself for being so obtuse.
'you have always been so good to me
that I would have done anything rather
than pain you ; but indeed I never thought
of loving you."

'' Simple-minded darling ! " he exclaimed
rapturously. '' I saw that the idea of
loving had never entered into your innocent
heart, and I said to myself, ' When I
teach her what love is she will put her
hand in mine, and go with me through
life's journey.' You don't know what love
is ; trust yourself to me, and let me teach
you, and one day you will find it wake of
itself in your heart. Love begets love, my
darling ; and you could not be long loved
as I love you, without feeling it stir in
your breast. You ivill love me, Cecie ;.
you are too young to talk of not loving,
too young to know the meaning of the
word. That kindly feeling which you own
to having for me is the seed, the germ, of

that love which I hardly dared hope you
already cherished for me."

Again Cecie was silent ; it seemed harder
than ever to refuse him when he was so
kind, so gentle.

'' Dear Darrell, you are so good, but I
do not — cannot love you'

"Do you mean you love another ? "

"Yes," she faltered.

Forgive me, Miss De Vere," he said in
his manly, honest way. "Forgive me, and
forget what I have said. I had hoped
things might have been so different. May
I beg of you not to let what I have said
cause any coldness between you and my
mother — between us all ? " And as Cecie
murmured a promise, he offered her his
arm, and took her to the ball-room.

She could not help noticing how pale
and set his face was, but beyond that
Darrell showed no sign, and only the eyes
that loved him could have detected that

for Lin all the brightness of the evening
had passed away. His mother saw, and
guessed what had happened, and now that
all anxiety was removed from her mind,
was ready to soothe his sorrow, and if she
could, would have shared it with him.

Cecie felt sorry for Darrell, and was
touched with the quiet way in which he
showed her all his customary attentions,
with the evident desire to spare her remark
of any kind. The evening was, however,
a blank to her. Sir Herbert studiously
avoided her. At first she thought it was
but a fancy of hers, but when she found
herself disengaged through one dance, and
saw him lounging in a window not far
from her, without coming to seek her or
speak to her — though he was evidently
perfectly aware she was near — Cecie could
only draw the one conclusion, that he
wished to avoid her.

It was with a tumultuously throbbing

heart she at length sought her room. She
had made a mistake and lost them both t
Acres cela la deluge. Cecie felt as though
this were the end of all things, and seeing
after this miserable failure only a long
weary vista of life at the Manor — she, with
that overwhelming hopelessness which only
youth can feel — flung herself on her bed to
sob herself into a restless slumber.

LANDED.

The breakfast-table at Eaglescliff on the
morning after the tableaux was not the
customary festive gathering. Everyone
looked tired, Cecie deathly pale, Darrell
very quiet and sad.

To use his own expression. Sir Herbert
was "seedy" and ill at ease. He had
hardly seated himself before he commenced
somewhat hurriedly,

I am very much afraid I shall have to
be leaving you to-day, Mrs. D'Eyncourt.
There is some business that wants attending
to, and I think I ought to go."

You going ! " Cecie exclaimed suddenly,
her face flushing crimson, and then
becoming paler than before.

The young man turned uneasily from her
gaze. The night before he had rallied
Darrell on his gravity, and asked him if
anything had gone wrong with his
inamorata ; and Darrell had given him to
understand that all was over between himself
and Cecie. The memory of that caress
on the stairs lay heavily on his conscience,
and, like most men when they find themselves
cornered, he thought safety lay in
flight.

Darrell cast a hasty glance at Cecie, and
meeting her eyes, read in them that she did
not want his friend to go ; and guessing at
once that this was the man she loved, he
stifled his own feelings and joined with his
mother in saying,

"You must not think of going yet,
Mainwaring, we can't spare you. Can't

your brother Geoffrey manage your business
for you, or can it not be put off for a few
days ? You are engaged to us for Miss De
Vere's ball, and I am sure she will feel burt
if you leave before."

"Do stay," Cecie said timidly, and
glancing at him from beneath her long
lashes.

"I'd rather not," he blurted out, then
stopped himself. "I mean I should be very
sorry to offend Miss De Vere, but much as
I should like to remain for her ball, I fear
I cannot do so, as my business is urgent."

"If you must go we will not try to
detain you, though we shall one and all be
very sorry to lose you, and shall miss you
terribly."

Ned glanced up from a letter he was
reading.

Why Mainwaring, I have a letter here
from Geoff, and he sends a special message to
you, which I am sure, will set your mind

at rest and keep you with us. 'Tell
Herbert the business he mentioned in his
last is all satisfactorily settled, and you may
add that the place seems to get on better
without him than with him. Mrs. Med win
was saying that none of the servants have
given warning lately, the cattle are in first-rate
condition, and I think all goes better
under the sway of a quiet old bachelor, than
under that of my harum-scarum step-brothers'"


'' I am sure after Mr. Tremayne's most
flourishing account, you might give us a
few days longer," Mrs. D'Eyncourt said.

'' I should like to immensely," the young
fellow returned reluctantly ; " and if allis
as Geoff says, I am afraid — I — I think
there is no immediate necessity for my
leaving."

Fate seemed against him ; he could not
get away without appearing uncourteous
to friends he valued, so he resigned himself,

VOL. I. M

mains ca mental determination to avoid
the ^' young one."

Fate and Darrell, however, seemed altogether
against him. Darrell's love was of
a peculiarly unselfish character ; he knew"
Cecie was unhappy at home, and her loneliness
had at first roused pity for her
in his heart, which had later ripened into
love. He had hoped to make her happy
with him, but as that could not be, he
determined to throw no obstacles in the
way of another's giving her that happiness
which it was denied to him to give her.
He fancied she loved his friend, and thinking
from Mainwaring's peculiar manner
during their conversation the night before,
that he too loved her, but feared he had
been standing in Darrell's light, he did
all in his power to throw them together
during the days that intervened before the
ball.

Mainwaring was intensely bored and

annoyed at this new state of things. Often
he would endeavour to back out of the
excursions Darrell was always planning,
but Cecie would appear so eager that he
could not succeed.

For Cecie, she could not understand the
state of affairs at all ; though Sir Herbert
had now plenty of opportunities, he never
spoke, but treated her coldly and distantly.
Cecie, remembering that kiss, was intensely
chagrined and furious at his treatment.

He shall not escape me," she vowed,
clenching her white teeth. *' I will make
him speak ; " and thus resolved, she only
waited for a favourable opportunity.

They were riding along a quiet lane. It
was a glorious afternoon, the sun glinting
down its golden beams on the glory of the
September foliage. In the grassy bank at
the side of the road, tiny ferns reared their
baby heads, proudly waving their bronzed
arms, the first time they had ever known

M 2

the glory of wearing this lovely autumn
dress, and quite oblivious — poor unconscious
mites — that all this finery but betokened
their speedy decay ; little feathering moss
looked up at the sun and smiled; diminutive
leaves turned their scarlet ruddy faces
heavenwards ; the whole was aglow with
autumn's wealth. Earnest jewels set in a bed
of velvety green.

Overhead the birds sang in the interlacing
branches a song full of the present
joy, careless of the coming winter.

The air had in it that first frosty breath,
so fresh and so exhilarating. The weather
had its invigorating effect on Sir Herbert,
he was more like his old self than he had
been for days. Cecie, watching his every
mood with interested eyes, thought the
moment favourable, so, leaning to pat her
horse's neck, she said with a sigh,

How time flies ! "

Of course it does to a butterfly like

you, who have only to think of your own
amusement," he answered lightly.

But sometimes it goes too quickly."

What ! You are not content with
having every day filled with pleasure, but
want to make each one as long as two ! "

No ; but it seems hard to see them
slipping from you when they are so very
precious — so very sweet."

The days, as a rule, seem quite long
enough for me," the baronet answered in a
commonplace tone.

Does it not seem horrid, there are only
two more days of delightful anticipation
before the ball?"

'anticipation is only delightful to the
young and inexperienced," he answered sententiously.
'' Middle-aged people far prefer
realisation."

I go home the day after the ball," Cecie
said.

"And so do I."

'' Shall you be sorry ? "

"What for?"

For leaving everyone."

"Rather," he answered carelessly; *but
the change will be good for me. I should
get rusty if I always lived in a quiet place
like this."

Cecie saw his drift. He wished to steer
her away from the broad river, into some
little nonsensical tributary of small-talk,
so she took the lines into her own hands,
and made for mid-stream.

'shave you been enjoying the last few
weeks ? "

"Immensely — thanks to your society,"
he answered.

"Thursday was a pleasant day, was it
not?"

"I am afraid I have forgotten what
Thursday was."

"The day of the tennis party."

Oh — ah ! Yes ; it was awfully nice."

And the tableaux ? ''

"Yes. If my memory serves me, the
tableaux went off charmingly."

*' Do you remember nothing else ? " she
asked, giving a shy glance at him.

'' I have a kind of recollection that you
flirted with old Day," he answered carelessly,
flicking his horse's ears.

"And is that all?" Cecie asked, half
pain, half anger in her voice.

"AU, Miss De Vere." With a cold look
straight into her eyes.

Cecie flushed and paled, then striking her
horse a fierce cut, started ofi" at a sharp
gallop, which she took care not to lessen till
they were close home.

Alone in her own room Cecie sat down
to think. Should she pursue this, or should
she let him alone when he so evidently did
not want her? She shrank from the part
she was playing, and yet she could not
make up her mind to give all up. His

name would put her in her proper position ;
his money would free her from her aunts.
No, she would go through with it, and
force him to speak.

She changed her tactics. She studiously-avoided
him, managed to evade rides or
walks if he was of the party, and took care
to show him plainly he was in disgrace,
and gained the object she had in view —
that of making him intensely dull. Had
she been an old diplomatist she could not
have devised a wiser expedient ; he missed
her society, and thought a good deal about
her. He tried to make her notice him by
every means in his power, but she seemed
utterly indifferent to him, and contrasting
her present conduct with the pleasure she
used to take in his society before, he got
piqued and annoyed at it.

Matters stood thus when the day of the
ball arrived. Cecie's mind was in a state of
blissful serenity, and the reasons of it were

various. The first occurrence that tended
towards it was the early arrival of a groom
from Sibthorp Manor, bearing a note for
Mrs. D'Eyncourt, and a packet for Cecil.
The note was to signify the extreme distress
of the Misses FitzAlleyn that they were
obliged to deprive themselves of the pleasure
of being present at the ball so kindly given
for their darling's birthday, but that, inconsequence
of Miss Evelyn FitzAlleyn's
illness, which showed some signs of returning,
they were afraid to venture out.

The packet for Cecie contained a very
handsome set of pearls from her aunts, and
two smaller parcels, which proved to be a
beautiful diamond ring from Sir Hugh, and
a locket from Miss Ainsworthy of exquisite
workmanship, which was accompanied by a
kind letter— another to add to the already
large store Cecie had of her letters. Other
causes of granulation were some charming
presents from the D'Eyncourts ; but by

far the most precious was a small bouquet
she found on her toilet-table, when she went
to dress ; for on a slip of paper attached
to it were the words : " Please wear it,
Cecie. — H. M." She smiled triumphantly,
but put it aside in a vase ; and when
she emerged from her room, looking
very lovely in her snowy silk and lace
dress, the only flower she wore was
a delicate creamy rose, which she had
gathered herself.

They were all assembled in the drawing-room
as she entered, fanning herself as she
moved to prevent Mainwaring from seeing
at the first glance whether she was wearing
his flowers.

He evidently concluded that she was, fora
bright smile overspread his face, and he
advanced a step towards her. Without
appearing to notice him she lowered her
fan, and watched him covertly. With a

look of angry disappointment lie turned
away, and a moment after left the room.

Later in the evening, when the dancing
was in full swing, he returned, and, going
straight to Cecie, asked for a dance.

I am afraid I have not one left," she
answered coldly.

Will you allow me to see your card ? "

Certainly."

His brow darkened as he scanned it.

'' I fear you have not studied it well ; you
have three disengaged. ' With your permission,
I will place my initials against
them ; " and bowing, he left her.

He felt deeply hurt. He had not meant
to offend her, and could not see why she
had been making the last few days of his
stay so uncomfortable ; and he determined
to have it out with her. He had not the
most remote intention of making love to
her, but he liked her as a companion, and

she had led him to believe she liked him,
and it seemed incomprehensible to him that
she should now treat him so coldly, and
refuse to wear his flowers, when ten days
ago she would have accepted them with
pleasure.

The dance came round. Almost before
the first strains had begun he was at her
side.

I think this is our dance ; do you care
to dance it, or would you prefer a stroll
in the conservatory ? "

It is a waltz, is it not ? "

Yes."

*' Then I think I would rather dance it."

They whirled away ; both were good
dancers, and passionately fond of it. Sir
Herbert's anger melted like snow before
the sun as they floated along in unison
with the tender strains of **Le Premier
Baiser."

Is not this a divine waltz ? " he said.

Waldteufel has done ample justice to his
theme'

What is the theme ? " she asked
carelessly.

'' ' Le Premier Baiser.' "

Her colour rose, and she answered coldly,

Yes, it's a charming air, but the theme
is absurd."

'Absurd ! " he said, looking into her
eyes ; '' you did not think so ten days ago."

*' I have forgotten," she murmured.

"But I have not," he said, losing his
discretion in the warmth of the moment.
*ras if I could ever forget your lifting your
lips to mine and giving me such a jolly
little kiss. It was the first Cecie, but it
shan't be the last."

Cecie stopped ; they were at the entrance
to the conservatory. Mainwaring led her
towards it, and with beating heart she
entered the dimly-lighted, softly-scented
paradise. He was silent till he had found

her a seat, sheltered by some shrubs and
camellia tubs, and seating himself beside
her, he spoke :

"I wanted to ask you why you have so
persistently shunned me of late. Were you
so tired of me that you could not wait
patiently for tomorrow ? "

She did not answer, and he went on
foolishly, recklessly, not knowing half that
he said.

'^ I thought you were awfully hard on a
fellow. You have snubbed me persistently
for the last few days, and even refused to
wear those few poor flowers. It seemed tome
very cruel after the jolly time we have
had together, and above all after that kiss."

I did not mean to be unkind," she said ;
but it was that that made me."

What, the kiss ? "

She nodded.

'' What in the world has that to do
with it ? "

"Oh' Cecie said tearfully, "I thought
you were vexed with me."

Vexed ? Why ? "

"Because you thought I ought not to
have given it you."

' Discriminating damsel I " Mainwaring
thought, but he was not sufficiently master
of himself to see her drift and save himself,
so plunged recklessly on.

On the contrary, I thought it was
very kind of you, and only wish you
would give me another."

Don't talk like that, it hurts me," Cecie
said ; and, burying her face in her laced
handkerchief, she sobbed gently.

What was Mainwaring to do ? He was
but human; there she sat beside him, her
white shoulders heaving, her golden head
buried in her pretty hands. He felt he
should be little better than a savage if
he did not try to console her. Slipping
his arm round her slim waist, he drew

her head on his shoulder, and whispered
soothingly,

'why are you crying, Cecie V

Because you despise me. Because I
ought not to have kissed you ! " she half
raised her face as she spoke. In a moment
he was kissing her trembling lips.

'' Indeed, Cecie, I do not."

''I — I don't want you to think badly of
me, and indeed I would not have kissed you
if I had not cared for you, and I have been
so miserable — but," softly returning his
kiss, " I am so happy now."

'' Are you ? " he cried, awakening with
horror to the construction she was putting
on his actions.

Yes, for I know you love me."

There was a dead silence. Had Main-waring
followed his inclinations, he would
have put the golden head from his shoulder,
and with haste have left her, and let her
think what she liked of him ; but he could

not do that, and sat silent and still,
wondering how in the world he was to get
out of this mess.

"Miss De Yere," he began, but she interrupted
him.

*' Don't say Miss De Vere, call me Cecie."

Well then, Cecie, I am afraid you have
misunderstood me."

Cecie sprang to her feet, and stood before
him, looking like a young tigress.

Misunderstood you ! Do you mean to
tell me that all you have said is false, that
you do not love me, but have wrung an
avowal of my love for you from me, merely
as a pastime ? How dare you ? It was
mean, base, ungentlemanly, and oh so
cruel ! " here her voice faltered, and she
broke into sobs.

** What in the world have I been saying ?"
Sir Herbert asked himself. " I can't be
sober. I wish to goodness I could see someway
out of this scrape."

VOL. I. N

He could not bear to hear Cecie sobbing
in this piteous way, so he gently laid his
hand on hers.

She flung it off angrily.
''Do you dare to touch me?" she cried.
*' I should have thought you had insulted
me enough. I will seek Darrell's protection
from any further annoyance. He shall
know how I have been treated under his
mother's roof." Cecie spoke angrily and
forcibly ; though she did not love this man,
she yet felt she had been deceived in him,
and her disappointment added a zest and
force to her speech which gave it all the
appearance of injured love.

Mainwaring's was not a strong or firm
character. He was jovial and pleasant
when everything went well ; morose, and
almost savage, when annoyed ; but he had
not the firmness of disposition necessary to
pull him through an emergency like the
present. He knew that he had often

entered into light and frivolous conversations
with Cecie, and he feared he might
at some time or other have said something
to lead up to a scene like the present. He
stood barring her exit, and running overall
the sentimental talks that had taken
place between them, and could think of
no word or act of his that could have led
her to think he cared about her, but
the unlucky time when he asked for a
kiss.

He was too much a gentleman to think
she was exaggerating ; but fancied he must
have said some silly thing or other, which
she, being young and inexperienced, had
construed into love-making.

If it got to the D'Eyncourts' ears they
would think he had been behaving in an
ungentlemanly way ; and the young fellow
flushed at the thought of a Mainwaring
ever so slightly tarnishing their time-honoured
name.

N 2

The only honourable way out of the
difficulty seemed to propose to the girl at
once. But he did not want to marry ; he
wanted his freedom for some few years
longer ; he had hardly realised yet the real
enjoyments of being young, rich, and a
baronet. Besides, when he did marry, his
wife must be very different to Cecily de
Vere. He would have no shady aunts or
anything of that kind in the background.

What was he to do ?

An inspiration suddenly came to him.
He would propose now to smooth matters
over, then be systematically disagreeable
for a time, and wind up with a fearful
quarrel which would make reconciliation
impossible, and he would be free. He
should then keep in with the D'Eyncourts ;
have done the right thing in the eyes of
the world, and yet not be saddled with a
girl he did not care about. He was quite
resolved ; and when Cecie once more impatiently

asked him to let her pass, he
said,

"You misunderstood me Cecie. I
meant to say I was awfully fond of you,
and all that sort of thing ; but you took
a fellow's breath away before he had time
to speak."

Cecie was silent. She was quite unprepared
for this sudden cold avowal of
affection ; and, though she instantly attributed
it to its right motive, fear of her
telling Darrell, she could not think what
to say. Pride prompted her to scorn him ;
but her longing for freedom and dread of
returning to live with her aunts, kept her
silent.

"You might say something, Cecie," he
said almost roughly. "A minute ago you
told me you were fond of me, and now
you are silent when I tell you I return your
affection."

Cecie winced at his peculiar manner of

putting it. She knew there was no heart
in it ; and she longed to tell him so, and
leave him with her self-respect uninjured.
But the dread of the consequences of such
a step was too much for her, and she
resolutely shut her eyes to the way she
was lowering her own dignity.

"Come," he said, 'don't look so sad.
I have told you I am fond of you, and you
have told me the same,- so we know we
shall suit one another. Let me see, when
people are engaged, they give one another
rings, don't they ? Take off your glove
and see if any of mine fit you."

Cecie held her hand out to him without
a word, her heart almost breaking at the
insult to her pride she had herself inflicted.
Somewhat clumsily he drew off her glove,
and taking his rings from his fingers,
dropped them in her lap.

*' You'd better try them on, and keep
the one that fits best."

"No ! " Cecie cried ; "I can't do that."

"Well then, I must," he said carelessly,
and proceeded with his task, till he found
one which he decided would " do." Then
restoring his rings to their appointed places,
"that's all settled," he said; "now put
your gloves on, Cecie, and let us go back
to the ball-room, we've been away an awful
time."

It has seemed short to me," Cecie said
reproachfully, determined now that she
had virtually accepted him to make believe
she was content.

Of course it's been immensely happy
to me," he answered, drawing her hand
through his arm and leading her back to
the ball-room.

She caught sight of herself in a mirror
as she passed, and started to see how pale
she looked. She tried to feel happy as
she gazed at the future Lady Mainwaring,
but a shudder ran through her as she

glanced at the man who was to give her
the title.

He does not love me now," she thought,
*rand in time he' will hate me;" but she
thrust the thought aside. " I shall be free,"
she said.

They met Mrs. D'Eyncourt ; she stopped
to speak to Cecie.

*'I have missed you for such a longtime,
you naughty puss. Where have you
been?"

*with Herbert," Cecie answered.

Mrs. D'Eyn court looked from one to
the other.

With whom, my dear ? "

*with Herbert," she repeated, giving
such a look into the young man's face that
he felt bound to say something.

She is to call me Herbert till she
is tired of me."

Yes ? " interrogatively.

** And I'm to call her Cecie," he went

on, wishing Mrs. D'Eyncourt were not
so inquisitive. '

That lady was, however, determined to
get to the bottom of the matter, that she
might feel assured of her son's safety, soin
the same tone she said that questioning
Yes ? ''
^' Mainwaring could stand it no longer ;
he wished his hostess and her density at
the bottom of the sea, and said bluntly,

You may congratulate us if you like."

"Oh, I'm sure I do congratulate you
both most heartily ; and I am sure, Sir
Herbert, I need not say how pleased we
shall be for you to prolong your stay
indefinitely. You will want to make the
acquaintance of Miss FitzAlleyn, and hear
what she has to say on the subject."

*' Must I ? " asked Mainwaring in dismay,
his face lengthening. "I did not know
they would have to be consulted."

"My dear boy, how could you be so

silly ; of course you will have to consult
them. There, go away and enjoy yourselves,
and tomorrow I will drive you over
to see them with Cecie."

Had Mrs. D'Eyncourt been pronouncing
sentence of death on him, the young
baronet could not have been more overcome
than he was at this arrangement.

I never dreamt of speaking to those
dreadful aunts ; they will never let me
off," he soliloquised.

Relinquishing his betrothed without any
apparent reluctance to a partner who now
appeared. Sir Herbert made his way to the
supper-room, and after a fair supply of
champagne to restore his courage, quietly
retired for the night.

Cecie felt his total disappearance keenly.
Even kind Mrs. D'Eyncourt said it was
very funny of him ; but perhaps he was
ill. So she went sadly to her room, feeling
neither proud nor happy, and wishing

with all her heart she had the courage
to give him back his ring, and regain the
self-respect she had that night trampled
in the dust at her feet.

AN ARDENT LOVER.

Next morning Cecie sent down word
that if Mrs. D'Eyncourt would excuse her
she would rather not come to breakfast, as
she was very tired. The truth was that
she dared not face Main waring before
Darrell. She remembered how different
Darrell's wooing had been, and she feared
how Sir Herbert would behave, and wished
to spare herself humiliation in the eyes of
friends she prized. She determined to
remain in her own room till the breakfast
party would have had time to disperse,
and then trust to meeting Mainwaring by

chance, so that their greeting could be got
through without spectators.

Sir Herbert ate a far heartier breakfast
for the non-appearance of his lady-love. It
gave a fillip to his appetite, for he did
not feel particularly inclined for breakfast
when he first appeared. His waking
thoughts had not been the serene a
man can have. He felt he had been
made a fool of the night before — tricked,
trapped ; and though he had liked Cecie
very well before, he felt he almost hated
her now, and certainly despised her for
the way she had netted him. He saw
through it all so clearly now, and was
mad with himself for being so culpably
weak ; but though he could see so clearly
how he got into this scrape, he could not
see how to get out of it.

Darrell had heard nothing; of the
engagement during the evening ; but his
mother, fearing lest he mio-ht hear it

suddenly, followed him to his room and
told him gently.

He had guessed what was coming, and
yet when the blow fell, it was none the
less hard to bear that he had, in a
measure, helped it all on. He passed a
sleepless night, but rose in the morning
resolved to struggle against it, and overcome
his pain, now that it was impossible
he could ever win her.

He found Mainwaring alone in the
breakfast-room when he came down. The
baronet was standing at the window, gazing
moodily out into the bright garden, and
it was a sullen rather than a happy face
that he turned to greet Darrell.

After a few words about the weather
and such like, Darrell laid his hand on his
shoulder and said kindly,

'^ For your sake, old friend, I was glad
at the news mother told me last nis^ht. I
wish you every happiness old boy, though

you have gained yours at the expense of
mine."

I am awfully sorry it is so' Sir
Herbert answered, wringing his friend's
hand. "I wish she had taken you instead
of me. Do you think she would do so
now, Dal ? "

Herbert," Darrell said almost angrily,
'this is too serious a subject for joking.
She refused me ten days ago because she
loved you best. Don't think I blame you
in the matter. I thought she cared about
me before she saw you ; but I was
mistaken. She must only have liked
me all the while, and who can account
for the waywardness of a woman's
heart ! "

*' Faugh ! I don't believe they have
hearts. It was my title Cecie took a
fancy to," the baronet said bluntly ; in
his bitterness blurting out the result of
his nio'ht's thoughts.

Darrell started back, amazed and disgusted.


Is that the way you speak of the
woman who is to be your wife ?"

"I don't know that she is going to
be my wife," Sir Herbert said doggedly,
and beginning: to whistle under his breath.

Let me tell you Mainwaring, you
are not going to behave as you please
to her while I have strength to defend her."

Darrell stepped back and gazed at his
friend with a look that meant mischief.

Sir Herbert saw plain speaking would
not do, unless he meant to risk an open
rupture with Darrell, so he said warmly,

"Look here Dal, don't let that girl
come between us, we have always been
good friends; of course I was only joking,
and now let's drop the subject."

Happily Mrs. D'Eyncourt entered at
this moment, and prevented any further
conversation; and Mainwaring had time

to reflect on his position, which seemed
to him more critical than he supposed,
as it was evidently impossible to attempt
to shake Cecie off just yet. He listened
submissively to Mrs. D'Eyncourt's plans
for introducing him to the aunts, and
smiled grimly to himself as she told him
not to be nervous about them, as they
were sure to like him,

When breakfast was nearly over, and
Cecie did not appear, Ned said,

I wonder where Cecie is'

Asleep, I suppose," Sir Herbert rejoined.

No, she is not well, and begged to
be excused," Mrs. D'Eyncourt said.

Mainwaring went calmly on with his
meal ; the news evidently made no
difference to him.

I wonder you can eat and Cecie not
here," Ned said mischievously.

"I don't see what difference her being
here would make. She doesn't feed me."

VOL. I. O

'*No; but I should have thought that,
hearing she was not well, you would have
shown some anxiety in the shape of
messages to the invalid."

Ought I to have done so, Mrs.
D'Eyncourt?" Sir Herbert asked.

It would have been done in my
young days," she answered.

"I suppose I had better write her a
note then," and Mainwaring sighed, as
though he had set himself a heavy task.

As soon as the meal was over he went
to the writing-table, and after two or
three attempts, composed the following
laconic note :

"Deal Cecie,

*' Awfully sorry you are seedy.
Hope you are coming down soon. You
can fancy I am anxious to see you.
"Yours sincerely,

Herbert Mainwaring."

He was pleased with the last sentence.
She can fancy I am anxious to see her
if she likes, though I am not," he soliloquised,
and reading his note, sent it to
her room.

When it came to Cecie's hands, and
she had mastered its contents, she was in
nowise deceived by the semi-loving tone,
and valued the last sentence at its exact
worth. Then she set herself to consider
how she should answer it.

Her better nature prompted her to set
him free, but she soon scouted the idea as
impossible.

*' It will be like confessing that I tried to
entrap him ; and it will be closing the only
loophole of escape open to me. I must and
will go through with it. I daresay we shall
get on well enough by-and-by."

Teaching her writing materials, she sat
down to write and answer this her first
love-letter. She wrote the first words,



'' Dearest Herbert," but could get no farther.
A flood of thoughts crowded upon her, and,
flinging down her pen, she remained long
lost in sad and bitter thoughts.

"Oh!" she cried, "is this the end of all
my hopes and dreams ? For the sake of
freeing myself from my curse I must marry
a man who dislikes and despises me, and
whom I — well, I don't care two pins about.
Love — that one feeling which makes life
endurable — is denied me. I don't love him
now ; and, though I may learn to do soit
may be that I shall only learn to tolerate
him, or worse — to hate him ! Why should I
marry ? Why should I not wait a little
longer for mv freedom ? I mio-ht meet
someone hereafter who would love me.
Why should I sell myself in this degrading
manner ? In trying to free myself from
one yoke, may I not be fitting another and
a fur more galling one to my shoulders ?
No ; I will not marry him."

Seizing her pea she wrote rapidly :

"Dear Sir Herbert,

"I cannot but feel from the tone
of your letter that you do not really care
for me, and write now to bid you forget
all that passed between us last night. I
do not wish to curse myself with a husband
who does not love me. I am cursed enough
already "

Cursed enough already ! " she repeated
to herself, *sand yet of my own free will
I am increasing it. How shall I bear the
savage treatment of those two women
when they know what I have done ? No,
I will marry him. At any rate I shall be
my own mistress and free of them."

Tearing across the half-written letter,
she wrote another, but slowly and with
an evident effort, which showed her heart
was not in her work. '

"DeaPc Herbert" (it ran),

*' If you really are so anxious to
see me, I will meet you on the tennis
lawn in an hour's time."

And this being duly despatched, she
proceeded to dress.

A MODERN HECATE.

It was the last day of August, and Mrs.
Weed was looking anxiously down the
level drive to Treholme Park, a charming
place in Moonshine — whither she had
teased her husband into going for the
shooting, and their autumn trip.

Mr. Weed did not care in the least for
shooting, but he did care to please his
impetuous little wife ; and as George
Treholme was a very old friend of his,
he let himself be persuaded into accepting
the invitation without very much difficulty.

It will be so nice dear ! " Fanny had

said to her husband. " I know Mabel Ains-worthy
is going, and Mary Treholme said
George was going to ask Sir Hugh
Stapylton, and a lot of other nice men."

So they went, and had been in the
house nearly two days when we see Mrs.
Weed gazing anxiously out from the
windows of the morning-room.

''Do you see any signs yet?" asked
Mrs. Treholme, who was whiling away the
time with some fancy work.

'' No. Yes ! Here's the carriage. I
do hope Mab has come," Fanny cried
excitedly.

"If you mean Miss Ains worthy, I most
heartily echo your sentiments," and Sir
Hugh Stapylton advanced hastily to the
window to watch the rapidly-approaching

carriage.

"I have been looking forward to meeting

r again."

You are not singular in that," Mrs.

Weed said, turning away to hide a smile
lurking round her mouth ; " Miss Ains-worthy
does not expect to see you though."

'has she interested herself enough to
think about me at all ? "

I expect not, but I wrote and told her
you would not be here."

You did ? Why ? "

"Mrs. Treholme told me someone could
not come, and I fancied it was you, so I
mentioned it when I wrote."

And she — what did she say ? " he asked
eagerly.

Oh, I forget. Let me see — yes, I remember
what it was, but I shan't tell
you ; it was never intended for you to
hear."

Nay, you ought to tell me Mrs. Weed ;
it's wrong to rouse a man's curiosity unless
you intend to gratify it."

Sir Hugh's pleasant face wore a smile of
expectancy. Quick-witted Fanny Weed

saw he was waiting to hear some flattering
speech, so she answered him — drumming the
while on the window-pane with her dainty-little
fingers.

"Well, if you must know, she said,
You are right in saying Sir Hugh will bea
loss, but I am sure Mrs. Treholme
won t be long before she finds a capital
substitute "

Sir Huojh bit his moustache to hide his
vexation.

She was not sorry then ? " he asked
foolishly.

'* Sorry ! " and the little tormentor gave
a silvery peal of laughter. '* Mabel Ains-worthy
sorry because she would not meet
one particular man ! I daresay she has
forgotten you entirely, and will hardly
know you again," and as Sir Hugh turned
away, she added to herself,

If you really are trying to win our
Mabel, it shan't be my fault if you don't

feel to the full the glory of your victory
when you achieve it."

Two minutes after the carriage drove up,
and Miss Ainsworthy, stepping gracefully
from it into the fine old hall, was surrounded
by a group of her friends, all eager
to kiss her or grasp her hand.

Smiling and happy, Mabel advanced into
the hall, Mrs. Weed on one side and Mrs.
Treholme on the other.

"It is good to come here," she said,
stooping to kiss Mrs. Treholme. ''I believe
you really are glad to see me."

'•' I should think we were. Who would
not be ? "

'' Oh, lots of people, I daresay," Mabel
said, laughing carelessly ; and seeing a hand
extended, she laid her own delicately-gloved
one in it, murmuring the conventional
How do you do ? " without noticing to
whom she spoke.

Something in the warmth of the grasp

made her look upwards as she withdrew her
hand. A glad light came into her eyes, and
a deep flush overspread her face as she
said,

Sir Hugh ! "

He had come gloomily forward to greet
her, but the light in her eyes reflected itself
in his, and grasping her hand once more,
he said,

Did you not know who it was at first ? "

No. I did not expect to see you. I
thought you were not coming."

And are you glad I did ? " he asked in a
low voice.

For answer, she lifted her grand truthful
eyes to his for one moment, and then turned
away.

Fanny Weed had seen this little by-play,
and made her own comments thereon.

Bother the man ! I wish I had told her
he was here. He would be silly not to see
how genuinely glad she was to see him, and

there's all my wholesome snubbing made of
no avail. He will be fancying she's dying
for him next — but he shan't do that. I'll
set Dick after them." And quitting her
friend's arm, she hastened away to the
billiard-room.

Opening the door and glancing hastily
round, she exclaimed,

Dick, you're the very man I want."
And you are the very woman I am
always wanting," responded the person thus
addressed, the Hon. Richard Challoner, ashe
raised himself from a divan, on which he
had been lounging, and tossed away his
cigar.

Come here, I want to look at you."
'' With pleasure," he answered. '' I shall
take the opportunity of having a good look
at you the while."

'' Don't be silly," she said, shaking a
reproving finger at him, which he immediately
caught and kissed.

*' Good gracious me, think of Laura ! '^
she said.

'' Good gracious me, think of Arthur ! '^
he returned, seizing her round the waist and
kissing her.

She drew herself back angrily.

'dick, I've told you a hundred times I
won't allow that, and besides, I had something
of importance to say to you, but
if you're in such a mad humour it's no
good wasting my time," and she made
towards the door.

Come now, little woman, don't be so
touchy. If you will stay and tell me
this important matter, I will promise on
my honour to sit on the other side of the
room the whole time you are here. That
will be no small sacrifice, I can assure you,
for I can't see why a fellow is given a
jolly little cousin like you, unless he may
derive some benefit from the relationship
occasionally."

"Well, I will forgive you," she said,
seating herself on the broad window-seat.
'come and sit here."

"Willingly," he said, dropping himself
beside her. "Now to return to the point
we started from ; you wanted to look at
me."

Yes, be quiet for a moment ; " and
Fanny Weed folded her little hands, and
gazed steadily at the handsome face before
her.

Richard Challoner was a tall well-built
man, of about five-and-forty ; his features
were good and massive, and admirably
suited to them were the well-trimmed
beard and moustache, and thick clustering
brown hair that waved over his broad
forehead. His eyes were very fine, a deep
hazel, that changed with the ever-varying
feelings of his most variable nature.

It was to those eyes that Dick Challoner
owed his many victories over the susceptible

female heart — to his eyes and his mouth,
which had a whimsical expression ever lurking
round it, that added greatly to the charm
of his face. He had, too, a rich deep voice,
a voice admirably adapted for the soft
tender speeches for which it was principally
used, though equally so for the jovial story
and style of the hon camarade.

Kichard Challoner was a dangerous mana
devoted admirer of beauty. He was
always at the feet of some woman ; but so
long as she came up to his standard he
eared not one atom whether she were
duchess or peasant, wife, widow, or maid.
Where women were concerned he was utterly
without principle, and fickle to a degree.
His susceptible nature was rarely chained
by one being for long at a time ; but
each of these passions was, while it
lasted, fierce and wild — stopping at
nothing, caring for nothing ; every obstacle
swept from the path. Woe to the woman

who attracted his fancy ! she must be
strong-willed and determined indeed to
escape him. He would return to the attack
fifty times if he thought there was the
faintest chance of success ; and he was
revengeful. Foil him harshly, let him
truly see his attentions were distasteful,
and he would never forgive it, but brood
sullenly over it as though he had been
cruelly wronged; and though he was not
by any means a wicked man — only unprincipled
— let him see a chance of being
even with a woman who had so treated
him, and he was not the man to refuse it.
And this man was married ! Married !
and his wife one of the most contented
women living ! Truth is stranger than
fiction — far. What Mrs. Challoner's early
married life may have been I cannot say ;
but at this time she was quite accustomed
to Dick's "little ways." Knew all about
them — or nearly all — and cared no more

VOL. I. p

than she would have cared about the
peccadilloes of the King of Dahomey.

She even made great friends of some of
the women he admired ; and so long as
Dick was kind and pleasant to her, never
gave him a cross word or showed an atom
of jealousy. Nor was this because she
amused herself with admirers after her
own fashion, for she was a handsome
woman, and could have done so. No, she
was thoroughly odd ; thought there was
no one in the world like her husband,
and was certainly the only woman who
could have been a wife to Richard
Challoner.

Well ! " said Dick, when a little smile
from Mrs. Weed, and the unclasping of
her pretty hands, showed him the scrutiny
was over.

You'll do," said Fanny enigmatically.
^" "What for ? " demanded Mr. Challoner,
much mystified.

*' Dick, would you do a kindness forme?"


*^ I would do anything for you within
my capabilities."

"Would you fall in love to please
me?"

Humph ! Is lie nice ? "

lawfully."

'' Pretty ? "

"The handsomest, most divine woman
you ever saw."

' Barks is willing.' Who is she ? "

I shan't tell you till you have heard
all."

What, is there some dark background
to your picture ? A lovely face with horns
peeping from a cloud of golden hair, eh ? "

No, no, Dick ; don't be stupid ! "

"AVell, tell me where she is; for unless
you show me a most alluring photo, I give
it up, even after your description. I don't
want to leave this for a week or so yet."

p 2

You need not ; she is here."

In this house ? "

Certainly''

"Then she must have concealed her
charms pretty well ; for the women hereafter
yourself, are simply hideous old
tabbies."

"She has just arrived."

"What! here?"

Yes, here. How dull you are."

"Fanny, the thing is impossible. You
see Laura's here, and though she never
said much, she was rather annoyed about

well, someone you never heard of,

and I am hon jargon for a time."

Did I ever build a house on sand,
Dick?"

You never built one at all, to my
knowledge."

How tiresome you are ! Well, what
if I tell you that without Laura's aid my
scheme falls to the ground ? "

She drew back to see the effect of her
words ; but he only said with a laugh,

*the plot thickens."

Yes," she answered, " for my divinity
doesn't care a bit about men ; and you
must get at her through Laura, whom
she will like. She'll chat to you ; but
if you get spoony she'll cut you in an
instant. What I want you to do, is to
make it apparent to everyone but herself,
that you are devoted to one another."

'' I don't like your game, Fanny ; I
don't see much amusement for me in
it."

Oh, but you will. No one but you
could manage it. She is a woman — no
girl — and a woman we all worship. She
has never cared a rap about any man
until now."

Until now ! then she is in love.
Upon my word Fanny "

Now do listen, you tiresome thing I

In love ? Of course she is, or I should
never have wanted your help."

"You want to pique him then, and
Fm to be the cat's-paw. Thanks, Fanny 1 "

Well, you are a cat's-paw in a certain
sense," Fanny returned candidly. "But
do listen to me. He is too sure of his
game ; he sees she cares for him, and
I can't bear our "

Mabel," said Dick, without a change
of expression.

Fanny started.

"You know whom I mean?"

You are a very transparent little
woman, Fanny ; there can be but one
woman over whom you would take so
much trouble, and that must be your
paragon Mabel. Go on."

"Fve a good mind not to say another
word," she said, looking vexed.

*'0h no, you've not. Let me see, you
are mad that our Mabel "

"Well, I am mad that our Mabel
should be so easily won ; and I want
you to pay her a lot of attention, so
that he shall find she is not so devoted
to him as he conceitedly imagines."

"Well Fanny, I am sorry, but I am
afraid I can't help you."

"Not help me ! " cried Fanny, in dismay.

No ; I am not fond of appearing a
fool : and paying attention to a woman
who is already devotedly in love, is only
wasting time and making oneself ridiculous.
Besides, I have heard too much about
your friend to like her. I don't like her
photo ; and I like her character even
less. She is a cold, hard, self-opinionated,
independent woman, with nothing soft or
womanly about her. A woman to admire,
not to love ; and I like loving women
better than admiring them."

Fanny broke into a peal of laughter,
the clouds clearing away from her face.

Oh Dick ! if those are your only-reasons
for refusing, wait until you have
seen her before you do refuse. She is
the most lovable darling in the world.
Wait till you have seen her and spoken
to her, you won't feel disposed to let
that horrid Sir Hugh "

*' Sir Hugh ! Do you mean Sir Hugh
Stapylton ? is he the lover ? "

'* Yes ; do you know anything of him ? "

Dick Challoner was silent a moment ;
an expression of fierce anger swept across
his face, and starting to his feet he said,

*' Know him ! I should think I do.
Yes, and I owe him something I would
gladly repay. If he is the lover Fan,
that alters the case. I will do it, and
carry it through to the end, whatever
that end may be."

Oh Dick ! " cried Fanny, frightened
at his vehemence, '' you won't do him
any harm ? "

"Not if lie keeps out of my way."

Oh Dick ! don't have anything to do
with it; please dont."

'don't be silly Fanny. You have put
my long hoped-for revenge within my
grasp ; and 111 have it, if your friend is
good enough' and leaving her abruptly,
he walked into the garden.

A minute later Mrs. Treholme and Mrs.
Challoner entered the room.

Where have you been, Fanny ? " asked
the latter. "There's a whiff of Dick's
cigar about the place ; have you been
flirting with him ? "

"Flirting, no; but plotting, yes" said
Fanny gravely. She felt as though she
had been stirring up a hornet's nest, and
wanted to share her troubles with someone
else. In a minute the story was all told,
even to Dick's hoped-for revenge,

"What do you think?" asked Fanny
doubtfully.

"That it will serve Sir Hugh right," said
Mrs. Treholme. " Mabel is worth too much
to be monopolised by any one man. I hate
the idea of her being married ; she will be
lost."

*but surely," said Mrs. Challoner, "you
don't mean to part your nice friend from
the man she evidently cares about ? I was
so curious about her that I was watching
her closely when she saw Sir Hugh, and I
could read in her face how she loved him.
You would not part them ! "

I would," said Mrs. Treholme.

"And I too," chimed in Fanny. "You
don't know, Laura, how proud and overbearing
that man is. He is so wrapped up
in himself that he hardly ever deigns to
look at a woman. He has been a dozen
times to my * evenings ' without saying as
many sentences to me, or to any other
woman but Mabel. I suppose he fancies
he is Paradise, and we are all Peri

clamouring to be let in ; I suppose Mab is
to be the favoured being who is to squeeze
through the bars; he'll never have the
courage to open the gate, for fear we all
make a rush for it."

*' He looked very nice to me," said Laura.
*' I thought him sad-looking."

My dear, you don't know him, or you
would not be so easily deceived," both ladies
exclaimed. "That looking sad is artfulness.
He makes us think he has had some terrible
trouble, and we try to be nice to him and
console him ; but the moment we assume a
friendly tone he freezes up, and is almost
rude."

'well, I am willing to sit by and look
on," laughed Mrs. Challoner. "But what
will you two wicked people do if she falls
in love with my Dick ? "

I am not afraid for Mab a bit. If you
can keep Dick's heart from being broken,
I think there is not much fear of Mab's

getting bruised even. She is not a bit
susceptible'

In that case I promise my help to
subdue this terrible man."

Between the three of us we are sure to
succeed," said Mrs. Treholme.

'* Three is a bad number," laughed Fanny.
"We might be the three Graces, the three
Furies, or those three horrible witches in
macbeth'"

We resemble the latter most, I think,"
Mrs. Challoner said gravely. "We seem
likely to cause

Hubble bubble,
Toil and trouble."

IS IT THE WORK OF A FRIEND ?

The awkward quarter of an hour before
dinner was announced. Everyone was
assembled but Mabel Ainsworthy.

Mrs. Weed and Dick Challoner were
chatting by the fireplace.

*' It's no use, Fanny' he was saying, '' I
am sure I shan't like her. I can't bear
paragons."

'' I won't have you say another word till
you have seen her."

"When I do, I hope, for your sake, I
shall be duly impressed. By Jove "

Mrs. Weed turned her head at the exclamation,

and smiled to herself, as the
beautiful Mabel swept into the room, looking
magnificent in a dark-green velvet dress,
that clung to her perfect figure in rich
folds. Eare old lace kissed her white neck
and beautifully-moulded arms, and in her
bosom nestled a glowing scarlet flower.

Legal she looked, and Fanny felt that
her point was gained, when she glanced at
Dick Challoner's enraptured face.

Slowly and reluctantly he took his eyes
from Miss Ainsworthy, and answered
gravely,

She is the most beautiful woman I
have ever seen. And you will help me
Fanny ? " he said hoarsely. ^' I wish to
heaven I had never seen her ! Were I
free, I would never rest till she was mine.
As it is, she will send me to perdition."

"How wildly you talk," Fanny said,
feeling half frightened. '' I daresay you
will see someone else tomorrow whom

you will eulogise in the same high-flown
manner."

*you mistake me Fanny. I could not
flirt with that woman. I could love her
with an intensity I have never known
before ; but to flirt with her would be to
drag her down to the level of every otlior
woman."

And to love her with this intensity
would be to raise her above their level ? "
Fanny said sarcastically.

In my eyes, yes," he said quietly.
*you are her friend — introduce me."

"Will it be the work of a friend to do
so ? " Fanny asked timidly.

That is for you to decide afterwards,"
he answered, and giving Fanny his arm,
crossed the room to the sofa whereon sat
Mabel and her hostess.

"Mabel dear, I want to introduce you
to a cousin of mine."

Mabel bowed and smiled, and a moment

later Dick Challoner was chatting to
her.

She talked to him without much interest.
Her thoughts were evidently faraway,
and Dick Challoner fancied he
caught her glances straying to the other
side of the room, where Sir Hugh
Stapylton was conversing merrily with
a pretty girl — Amy Vaughan by name.

Dick felt savage at the indifference with
which he was treated.

Miss Vaughan is very pretty," he
said.

Mabel raised her eyebrows.

'' Miss Vaughan ? "

Yes, the girl you are looking at."

*' Was I looking at her ? Yes, she is
pretty — something like a wax doll. It's
rather a vapid face."

Sir Hugh does not seem to take your
view of her," Dick said maliciously. " By
the way, do you know him ? "

I have met him before."

*' I should not fancy he was the sort of
man you would care about — too cold and
reserved."

''I have not found him either."

Ergo you like him ? "

'' You seem to interest yourself strangely
in my whims and caprices," she said,
glancing at him with an angry gleam in
her eyes.

I do," Dick answered calmly.

Dinner was announced. Challoner had
the coveted honour of taking Miss Ains-worthy,
and flattered himself he should
have a fair opportunity of fascinating her.
Homme propose mais Dieu dispose."
On her other hand was seated Sir Hugh.

From being cold and haughty, Challoner
found his companion suddenly become
smiling, brilliant, and tenfold more fascinating
than she had been before.

'this is indeed an unhoped-for pleasure,"

VOL. I. Q

Sir Hugh said as they were seated.
I longed to come and speak to you
before dinner, but you never looked near
me, and I did not dare."

I should not have thought you lacking
in courage."

Many brave men have become cowards
under the fire of a woman's eyes."

"And yet Miss Vaughan did not appear
terrible to me."

Miss Ains worthy, you are too bad !
Long ago you forbade compliments unless
I wished to lie under the ban of your
displeasure, and yet you say the most
provoking things. You know I meant
that men only became cowards under the
fire of eyes they cared for."

Mabel laughed carelessly, and turned
away to reply to a remark of Mr.
Challoner's.

Presently Sir Hugh said,

"I am so glad you have come."

Are you ? " lie said frankly. " I am
glad to hear you say so. It is pleasant to
feel that one is welcome. '^

'you welcome!" he said, in a deeply
tender tone. '' Your presence brings light
and sunshine into every house you enter."

''A very pretty sentiment, which I most
heartily endorse," Dick Challoner interposed.


Mabel looked round, half vexed.

Oh, you heard it ? "

Certainly. My hearing is acute ;
though, if you wish it, I will make it
less so."

Mabel cast a look of scorn at him ; but
he effected his purpose. For the rest of
dinner she talked almost exclusively to
him.

Q 2

Scorned.

A FORTNIGHT had slipped away, and the
fact was patent to everyone but the object
of his attachment that Dick Challoner
was madly in love with Miss Ainsworthy.
To no one more fully so than his wife.

Aren't you jealous, Mrs. Challoner ? "
someone asked her.

Jealous ! No. I am glad to see Dick
enjoying himself."

It seemed truly so, for she showed a
warm liking for Mabel on her own account,
and was perpetually trying to throw the
two together.

Mabel fully returned Mrs. Challoner's
friendship, but in a kind of pitying spirit.
She thought Dick a pleasant nice man
for an acquaintance ; but as a husband she
thought he must be simply unendurable,
and that the unfortunate who shared his
name ought to rank as General in the
army of domestic martyrs.

She had been angry with Dick at first ;
but despite herself she could not help
liking him. There was a joviality and a
daring kind of impudence about him that
threw down the wall of coldness and
reserve she had been at such pains to
build up ; and she frankly acknowledged
that she liked him, and was glad when
he was with her. That he loved her she
never for one moment imagined. Her
heart was filled with but one image, and
there was no room even for the shadow
of any other. Mabel Ainsworthy loved
Sir Hugh with the whole strength and

passion of her nature ; and, like a northern
summer, her love was but the fiercer and
warmer for being so long ice-bound.

All men besides are to me like
shadows " she could truly have said ; and
what wonder that, with her heart throbbing
with this new great love, she did
not see or think of any danger that could
lie in her being pleasant with Dick
Challoner.

Sir Hugh saw things more clearly. He
fumed over Challoner's attentions, and
even at times doubted whether Mabel
did not encourage them ; but he never
put an end to his fears, and spoke his
love.

Matters stood thus, when one morning
George Treholme was much put out to
find his shooting-party was to be minus
its most important member. He was no
sportsman himself, but owned some of
the finest shooting in the county; and

these parties were a great bore to him
unless he had someone with him on whom
to let his mantle descend, and who would
free him from the duties of host and let
him stroll about the place, arranging things
and looking after his property.

Dick Challoner was his mainstay, he was
a thorough sportsman — fishing, shooting,
hunting, he enjoyed each in its turn, and
welcomed each fresh season with genuine
pleasure. Fond as he was of female
society, he could even forego that for a
good day's sport.

So safe was Mr. Treholme in having
him about, that he laid his plans from day
to day quite independent of the shooting.
On this morning; he and Mr. Weed were
to ride to the market-town to look at
some cattle that were to be sold. Imagine
then Mr. Treholme's consternation when
he heard Dick announce,

'' I shan't shoot to-day."

Not shoot ! " said Lis host aghast.
"Why, my dear fellow, only last evening
you were quite enthusiastic about shooting
over Lowmoor Copse. A cover that has
not been drawn yet. You can't mean it ? "

I do indeed."

But why in the name of fortune ? "

'' Because that kind but most fickle lady
has turned her wheel, and permitted me
to spend my day in rarer and more
enjoyable amusements. If you want to
know more I must refer you to Miss
Ainsworthy."

To me ! You are labouring under a
delusion. I have not the faintest idea
how you mean to spend your day."

"Is it possible you have forgotten so
soon ? "

I think you half promised to ride with
me this morning," said Sir Hugh, leaning
anxiously across the table.

Miss Ainsworthy would not have done
so, considering she wholly promised to let
me drive her in the pony phaeton," Dick
said audaciously.

I ! " Mabel began, looking utterly

astonished, but ere she could speak Sir
Hugh had risen from the table ; his face
clouded, his voice angry as he said,

In that case I had better withdraw my
claim."

Scarcely had the door closed on him
than Mabel exclaimed angrily,

''Mr. Challoner, how could you, how
dare you tell such an abominable fib ? "

He rose and went to her side. "Don't
be angry," he said in low eager tones ;
I wanted to have you all to myself fora
little time, so I made a bold stroke for
it. You will go with me, you won't refuse
me?"

I think you have behaved very badly,

and I shall certainly not go with you,"
she said half laughing.

Don't be so cruel," he pleaded, bringing
his handsome face on a level with her
own, and gazing at her with all the
fascination of his fine eyes. " I have
longed for a cosy little chat with you.
It will seem so unkind if you don't go."

Nonsense," she said, laughing nervously,
and feeling as though she could not refuse
him while his eyes were bent on hers. " You
can take someone else."

Do you think anyone else would suffice
when I want you ? " he said in a
tone that was in itself a caress.

Mabel could not bear it. She rose from
the table and said firmly,

''Mr. Challoner, I will not go with
you."

Catching a sorrowful expression on his
face she paused, and turning to Mrs.
Challoner, who was sitting near, asked,

^^Willyougo?"

A bright smile crossed Dick's face.

'' Of course, Laura will go. And the
ponies will be round in half an hour ;
don't keep them waiting, either of

you."

In perfect good faith Mabel went to
dress.

Dick had a little confabulation with his
wife, which ended in her going into the
garden with Fanny Weed ; and then he
sauntered to the stables to watch the
lovely little pair of brown ponies being
put to.

By-and-by he tooled them round to
the door ; and in a few minutes Mabel
appeared, looking so handsome, so highbred,
but so thoroughly resolute, that
Dick trembled for the success of his
scheme.

Mabel had been taking herself to task
during the period of dressing for allowing

Mr. Challoner to be so empresse in his
manner, and had determined for the
future to keep him very much at his
distance.

Slowly she descended the few broad steps,
and began patting the ponies' glossy sides.

*' Where is Mrs. Challoner ? " she said
at last.

*'I don't know at all," he answered,
with the utmost sang-froid,

I thought she was coming with us,"
Miss Ainsworthy said quietly.

She went down the garden with
Mrs. Weed, and has not come back."

"I am sorry," said Mabel, beginning to
remount the steps, 'for I rather looked
forward to a drive this morning."

Why can't you have one ? " he asked,
in well-feigned surprise.

She was silent ; he began to laugh.

"You are surely not going to refuse
to drive with me because my wife is

not here ? I did not think that you of
all women were a prude, Miss Ains worthy."

I am not," she said, turning and facing
him.

'' Then come with me."

No, I can't ; because "

'because you are one," he said, giving
the ponies a furious cut with the whip,
that made them plunge and rear madly.

'don't punish those poor little brutes
because you are offended with me," she
said, scornfully''

Offended ! Nay, you should say hurt
cut. You have baulked me of a
morning's enjoyment, because you don't
think me whip enough to drive these
miserable little rats."

"No, no; it's not that."

What then can it be ? If you do
not fear my overturning the carriage, what
can you fear ? I am not an ogre ; I shall
not eat you."

You are absurd, Mr. Clialloner."

*' It must be then that you do not like
me well enough to spend a few hours with
me. Rather than that you should lose
your drive, I will fetch Sir Hugh."

Enough, Mr. Challoner," she said
haughtily, " I will go," and she seated herself
in the pretty phaeton, drew the rug
round her, and in a moment more the
little steeds, impatient from their long
waiting, had sprung from the groom's
hands, and flown off at a spanking rate
to the lodge gates.

Neither spoke for the first couple of
miles, and then Dick said,

I should like to know why you refused
to drive with me. I know why
you accepted."

'' Why ? " asked Mabel.

Because you were piqued at what I
said about Sir Hugh. I can read every
line of your face with perfect ease."

"Really," Mabel answered, indifferently,
tliouo:li the mention of Sir Huq:1i's name
had set her wondering; over his sudden
disappearance from the breakfast-table.
Her companion recalled her to the present,
by saying in a jesting tone,

Does it take so very long to consider
whether you can tell me ? "

'' I really was not giving the matter a
thought. I did not wish to drive with
you — without your wife," Mabel said,
determined to silence him.

Why not without my wife ? " he asked,
gazing at her earnestly.

Miss iVinsworthy did not answer.

Was it because you dared not trust
yourself with me, for fear I should find
out the truth ? "

"I do not understand you," Mabel said
haughtily, endeavouring to conceal her
nervousness.

Dick brought the ponies to a slow walk,

and letting the reins hang loosely on their
necks, bent over Mabel ; his face full of
such intense passion, that, strong woman
as she was, she felt awed and frightened.

"You do not understand. Listen tome,
and let me make it clear to you.
No, hear me before you speak, and then
I will listen with my very soul, to the
melody of your divine voice. Since the
first time I saw you, you have been the
one thought of my mind ; sleeping and
waking, your image has been ever before
me. Your heart cannot be cold to such
idolatry as mine. It must, it does respond.
Oh, what a future lies before us ! " and
seizing her hands, he smothered them with
wild kisses.

Indignation and horror had kept Mabel
transfixed, as he poured out his wild protestations,
but at his touch she recovered
her self-possession, and dragging away her
hands, cried,

'* Good heavens, Mr. Challoner, you must
be mad, or if sane, one of the basest men
living. Do you know what you have
dared to say ; how you have dared to
insult me ? Do you know "

'^ I know nothing but that I love you ! "
he said, gazing ardently at her.

Love ! " Mabel cried, her whole face
ablaze with indignation. '' Love ! Never
dare to desecrate that sacred word, by
applying it to such a vile passion as yours.
You, a married man, who have yourself
striven to make me like your wife — come tome
and dare to tell me you love me ! I

honour your wife ; but you I liked

you before because you amused me ; but
now — I loathe you."

My love ! my love ! " he cried, like one
stricken with a mortal blow.

*' Oh heaven ! " she cried passionately,
*' that this man should use such words tome."
Then turning on him fiercely, she

VOL. I. R

said : *' Were I a man I would shoot you,
like the hound that you are ; but I can
have no outward vengeance, but I vow that
I will never willingly address one word to
you again," and leaning forward, she strove
to reach the reins.

He caught her hands, and forced her
to look at him. She was half startled
at the changed expression of his face.
All the love light had died from his
eyes, and in its place burned a fierce fire
of rage.

'mabel Ainsworthy," he said, "I have
heard your vow, now hear mine. You have
scorned and trampled on my love ruthlessly.
I could have borne a gentle refusal, for I
should have felt that that would one day be
revoked, but scorn I cannot bear; and I
swear that I will make you ask on your
very knees for the love you now so scornfully
thrust from you. I have sworn it."

And turning the ponies round, lie drove
rapidly homewards.

Strong and self-reliant as was her nature,
Mabel felt herself weak and trembling before
this terrible trial, and on reaching the house
she hastily made her way to her own room,
there to sob out her humiliation with those
agonising heart-wrung sobs whose pain only
strong-natured women feel.

She was so weak, so pitiably weak. In
the midst of her grief one thought was
ever present with her, bringing a sharp
pain to her heart, and a dusky flush to
her cheek.

Should Sir Hugh know, what would he
say ? What would he think ? Would he
blame her ? "

She blamed herself for caring in the least
what any man thought of her. What was
Sir Hugh more to her than any other man,
that she should let his good or bad opinion

B 2

be a matter of anxiety to her? But the
words rose to her lips, the first confession
even to herself of the truth : '^ I cannot
help it. I love him — I love him."

wae's me!

Miss Ainsworthy did not reappear til
dinner-time, and then she looked so pale
and ill that on every side she was plied with
inquiries and sympathy.

'had you an accident, Dick?" asked
Mr. Treholme maliciously, half hoping that
he had, as a revenge for his own spoilt
day.

Dick paused, and looked down the table
at Miss Ainsworthy before he answered ;
but seeing her stern impassive glance, he
said boldly,

'' No ; we had no accident. The ponies

took fright and bolted ; the only harm
done — and that perhaps the worst that
could have happened — was the alarm they
caused Miss Ainsworthy."

In the chorus of condolence that followed,
only one person noticed the glance of
supreme scorn Miss Ainsworthy flashed at
Dick Challoner ; only one person refrained
from inquiries or sympathy — and that
person was Sir Hugh Stapylton.

''I should have thought your nerves were
too strong to be upset by such a thing,"
said Fanny Weed.

That was my opinion also," Mabel
vouchsafed dryly.

The three plotters exchanged glances,
and by that code of signals which exists in
female freemasonry, each said to the other,

'dick's been offending her,"

As soon as dinner was over, and she
could safely manage it, Mabel slipped away
from the ladies, and throwing a light shawl

round lier shoulders, went out into the
balmy moonlight night, to strive to calm
her troubled mind.

Nature always brought solace to her in her
saddest moments. There was that in the
calm, patient, uncomplaining attitude of
Nature that made her own sorrows sink
into insignificance, and become like the
peevish complaining of a sick child. She
noted the way the wind and the rain beat
alike on tall tree and lowly fern, and how
patiently all bowed their heads to it and
bore it, till, by-and-by, the rain would cease
or the wind abate, and they would raise themselves
again, and as they rustled their leaves
and turned towards the sun, seem to smile
their thanks to Heaven for the storm that
was past.

She passed from the garden into a
charming little wild bit of wood that lay
beyond, and there lost all the painful
thoughts that had been harassing her, in

the peaceful stillness, the perfect rest everything
was enjoying. Not a bird twittered,
not a twig stirred. Here and there the
moonlight glittered softly through the
interlacing trees, slid down their boles
caressingly, and stooped to love a tiny
floweret that nestled at the roots, which
half opened its sleepy eye at the moon's
cold kiss to see if the day had come, waved
its leaves lovingly as the moon, whispering,
bade her sleep in her arms, and slept once
more, crooning a love-song with the soft
rustle of its tiny branches.

Then, through the deep stillness, broke
the plaintive song of the nightingale. Tonight
his tale seemed so full of woe that it
could not be sung in the sunshine amid the
flowers, but only when all others slept could
he ease his heart of its burden and pour
forth his plaint on the stilly air,

** Oh Cynthia, how long must I love thee
thus in vain ? Wilt thou never turn tome

? Thus, when the night closes around,
do I sing to thee of my love. When other
birds are gay I sit silent. I will sing the
praises of none but thee ; wilt thou be ever
thus cold and silent ? "

But Cynthia passed him as he sat on the
twig mourning, saying as she went :

*' Ever and for ever ; my love is given to
the flowers that close their fairy petals as I
approach. Never, ah never, will they give
their love to me, and never, never, can I
love thee."

The nightingale took wing, silent and
sad, and all again was still.

Suddenly Mabel was startled by the
sound of a man's approaching footsteps.
She drew aside in the shade of the trees,
fearful that it should be Dick Challoner
following her. The step approached
nearer ; how she regretted her folly in going
out alone ; she dreaded another scene like
the one of the morning;. The man came

abreast of her, and in the moon-gleams she
saw it was not the man she dreaded, but
Sir Hugh.

She advanced into the light, calling him
by name. He threw away the cigar he had
been smoking, and turned towards her.

'' I did not know whom I might be about
to encounter," she said, '' so drew into the
shade till I could see whether it was friend
or foe."

'' Then by your advancing when you saw
me, I may reckon myself a friend," he
answered. *' I am glad, for I feared by
some unwitting act I had forfeited your
esteem."

'' Why ? " she asked.

"You seemed to avoid my society, and
to prefer Mr. Challoner."

Bah ! Pray never mention that man
to me again. Will you give me your arm ?
Thanks. I came out to try and lose a most

distressing headache, and, as I have done
so, I think I will go in."

Stay a little longer. I had no idea
I should meet you when I too strolled out in
no very peaceful mood ; but, as we have
met, will you not prolong your ramble a
little?"

Mabel consented willingly, and they
stalked on for a while conversing, in the
old friendly way, of pictures, books, and
things of common interest to both. They
turned and were nearing the gate that
led to the garden when he said,

'may I really consider that you are
not offended with me ? "

'certainly. Whatever made you think
I was so ? "

"You have seemed so determined to
shun me lately. I have never had an
opportunity of enjoying a minute's conversation
without Mrs. Weed, our hostess,

or Mrs. Challoner, immediately joining us,
and I thought by your desire."

*' Oh no ; you are quite mistaken. They
are all three very fond of me I believe,
and don't like me to be a moment away
from one or other of them."

Then will you give me a peace-offering
of that rose you wear, to assure me that
all is well?"

No ; I will give you no peace-offering,
for that would be admitting there had been
war."

"Nevertheless I still crave it, to convince
me that I have not lost what
little place I may have gained in your
regard."

Very well," she said, '' I am quite
willing to prove that to you. Which shall
I give you ? "

That rich red one," he said.

Laughing, she unfastened it, and, putting
it in his hand, said,

I feel quite magnanimous, giving you
a half-dead rose."

He took it from her hand and pressed
it to his lips ; then, taking a note-case from
his pocket, said,

I will place it beside my other
treasures."

Mabel's face flushed, and, stretching out
her hand to take the flower from him, she
said passionately,

I must beg you to return it, Sir Hugh.
You shall not place a gift of mine with the
spoils of your other flirtations."

"Look at them," he said, putting the
case in her hands.

There, lying before her, were a glove,
the one she had missed the night of Mrs.
Weed's at-home ; some flowers she had
worn a day or two ago, and dropped
from being insecurely fastened ; and a tiny
rough sketch she had made and thrown
aside.

She could not speak, but returned the
case in silence.

"Is it possible," he said, 'that you
would have thought me capable of placing
a gift of yours beside that of any other
woman ? Would it have pained you if I
had?"

She half raised her eyes and then dropped
them, while a crimson flush overspread her
face.

He was silent a moment, and then broke
forth passionately,

Oh Mabel ! if I only dare speak to you
if I only dare tell you all I think, all I
feel for you. Tell me, if I could, should you
have cared about me ? "

"What do you mean?" Mabel asked
her face pale as death.

That I cannot speak to you. That
I am not free."

"And I— oh God! I love you," Mabel
cried in her despair.

There was silence for a time, then he took
her cold hands in his, and murmured low,

"Oh Mabel, I hoped it was not so,
while I feared it might be. I have
tried to keep away from you, but I
could not ; you have been the one
gleam of sunshine in my sad life. I
have been very cruel, very wicked ; but
say you forgive me, and do not refuse
me your friendship. If you knew all the
story of my misfortune you would forgive
me. Oh tell me that you will ? "

Slowly the words came,

"I — forgive you."

Silence again.

She raised her head, and their eyes
met; hers full of deep anguish, and his
burning with such intense love, that, as
they lighted on hers, they seemed to
draw her Avhole soul out to him ; and,
stretching out her white arms to him,
she cried in heart-broken tones,

'soh Hugh! Hugh!"

In an instant his arms were round
her, his lips pressed on hers with wild,
passionate kisses ; then suddenly she broke
from him, and holding his face in her
hands, she gazed long and earnestly into
his troubled eyes, and turning swiftly
she left him.

STRICKEN.

The next day Mabel Ains worthy was
very ill. Brain-fever the doctor said,
and looked grave as he spoke of her.

I should fancy she had sustained a
severe mental shock' he said ; " I suppose
none of you ladies are in her secrets ? "

The ladies addressed, Mrs. Treholme,
Mrs. Weed, and Mrs. Challoner, reddened
and gave a furtive guilty glance at each
other ; but said with one voice,

We have not the slightest idea what
can have caused this illness."

Some affaire die cceitr " was the doctor's

VOL. I. s

mental comment, '* and they know all about
it," and he took his leave.

Once alone, their tongues were loosed.

"It's Dick," said Mrs. Challoner complacently.
" Of course she could not help
falling in love with him, and being fond
of me and a high-minded woman, it upset
her. Poor Dick ! it's a pity he is such a
handsome fellow."

Yes, it's undoubtedly the work of your
precious Dick. I wish I had never helped
to throw them together. Mabel of all
women to come to this ! I expect we
have succeeded in making her an unhappy
woman for the rest of her days ! "

Don't say that ! " said Fanny with
tears in her eyes. " It was all my doing,
and if she dies I shall have murdered
her. I am convinced something happened
yesterday, for see how ill she looked after
the drive, and how fearfully cross Dick
was all the rest of the day."

Poor Dick ! " sighed Mrs. Challoner.

Poor Mabel ! " chorused the others.

"Poor Dick," when he heard the sad
news, smiled complacently to himself, ashe
soliloquised :

•' She does love me then, I thought she
did ; I felt convinced all those high-flown
sentiments were worth nothing," and he
went amongst the rest of the guests
deploring the accident that had unstrung
Miss Ains worthy's nerves.

One man went amongst them with a
stern set face, and restless anxious manner.
Nowhere could he find rest but in pacing
the corridor outside Miss Ainsworthy's
door, and asking eagerly for news, every
time anyone emerged from the sick-room.

God spare her, and forgive me," was
the constant cry of his hearts

2

NO ESCAPE.

A CARRIAGE was driving up to the noble
stone portico of Sibthorp Manor.

In it were gentle-faced Mrs. D'Eyncourt,
Cecie, who kept flushing and paling as
they approached their destination, and
Sir Herbert Mainwaring, looking sullen
and anything but satisfied with his present
position.

Within all was bustle and confusion ; as
the carriage came in sight a cigar end was
flung into the coal vase, a pastille lit, a
French novel thrust into an ottoman from
whence some work was dived for, and when

the visitors were ushered in, Maud and
Lyn FitzAUeyn looked the picture of
domesticity — Maud holding a skein of
wool which Lyn was deftly winding.

How delighted we are to see you dear
Mrs. D'Eyncourt," gushed Lyn. "This is
a charming surprise ; I am sure you came
to see after the poor invalid, and I know
you will be glad to find her so much
better, and — yes — surely we have had the
pleasure — yes — it must be Sir Herbert
Main waring," and with a winning smile
she extended her hand.

Sir Herbert bent over it with a trifle less
of sulkiness on his face, Lyn FitzAlleyn
was very fascinating and not so vulgar
as he had thought her. Maud wisely
remembering Lyn's advice, refrained from
saying much, and lowered her somewhat
strident voice considerably.

For some minutes they all sat chatting
in a desultory way ; and then Mrs. D'Eyn-

court — only too willing to be kind and
considerate where her own sons were not
concerned — rose, and taking Cecie by the
arm said,

"Now, darling, will you show me your
pretty garden ? " And, smiling to the
two ladies, she added, " Sir Herbert wishes
to have a little talk with you, so I am
sure you will excuse us."

As they left the room dead silence fell
on the three remaining ; the closing of
the door sounded to Sir Herbert like a
death-knell. The sisters at first exchanged
delighted glances ; but as the moments
flew by and he was still silent they
changed to angry impatience and blank
dismay.

Lyn sat pondering how she could
broach the delicate subject without appearing
to do so, when the silence was
broken by Maud.

Sir Herbert," she said, and paused. In

that pause she gazed at her sister ; and,
utterly disregarding the hushing-down expression
in her face, went on : " You
wanted to speak to us, I believe ? "

'^ No, madam ; indeed I did not," he
said candidly ; and again there was
silence.

Maud for once, was utterly subdued ;
but Lyn, seeing the exigencies of the
case, felt it incumbent on her to make a
struggle for the general good.

'' I thought," she said sweetly, *' that
dear Mrs. D'Eyncourt said that you
wanted to consult us about — some ferns."

"Oh, not about Cecie?" said the baronet
unguardedly, inexpressibly relieved to find
they knew nothing, and never dreaming he
had checkmated himself.

About Cecie ! " both ladies chorused.
Then Maud, in the severe tones she had
been saving for the occasion, said,

If you have anything to say about

N
pretty
two
to het
sure V

«t4

the door

"She did," he answered, watching her
narrowly.

"Neither are we," Lyn interposed
quickly, instantly grasping the difficulties
of the situation. '' She has always called
us aunts since she was a wee, wee bairns.
We knew her mother very well, and she
begged us to look after the child ; butin
a matter of importance like this we
should of course refer you to Sir Hugh
Stapylton."

Stapylton ! Oh, I know him. What
relation may he be ? "

Both sisters flushed; but Lyn replied
steadily,

Her uncle. I am sure he will raise no
objections ; so, though we have no authority,
we can confidently say you may consider
yourself engaged to Cecie."

You are very good," he answered coldly
and there was another long silence, which

was broken by the entrance of Cecie and
Mrs. D'Eyncourt.

In that silence, Lyn, whose wits had
been sharpened by contact with the rough
side of the world, comprehended the whole
situation. She saw Sir Herbert had been
caught in a trap, and though she admired
Cecie's precocious skill, she nevertheless saw
rocks ahead of which Cecie was quite
unconscious ; she saw that Sir Herbert did
not intend to carry out the engagement
into which he had been forced ;
and to prevent this catastrophe must be
her care.

When Cecie and Mrs. D'Eyncourt entered
she rose, and extending her arms,
folded Cecie to her heart, murmuring softly
but loud enough for Sir Herbert to
hear,

My darling child, let me congratulate
you. It is all so sudden, that I hardly

know what to say, but I feel confident
you will be happy."

In moments of strong excitement nature
will assert herself, defeating art with bloodshed,
and routing her utterly. An Irishman,
a Scotchman, or provincial, however
carefully he may conceal his brogue or
accent, even so well as to pass for an
Englishman, will, in moments of emotion,
be carried out of himself, and revert to hi
mother tongue.

Even so it was with Maud. She felt it
incumbent on her to say something congratulatory,
and in her elation forgot all
Lyn's admonitions, and advancing to Cecie
and giving her a hearty slap on the shoulder,
said,

'' Bless you, you young cuss ! "

Had a bomb-shell been thrown amongst
them, it could not have caused greater
consternation.

Cecie shrank back, and Lyn and Mrs.
D'Eyncourt stood speechless, the one in
horror, the other with disgust.

Sir Herbert took the matter differently ;
his ill-tempered apathy was roused to
indignation, and snatching up his hat,
said,

"I am sure, madam, I ought to thank
you in Cecie's name, for your most objectionable
congratulations. You will pardon
me if I am desirous of hearing more
of them ; " and he strode out of the room
and house.

What an ill-tempered young man ! "
exclaimed Miss FitzAlleyn.

'' You're a fool," said Lyn angrily.
"Can't you keep your vulgarity down for
one minute ? "

Vulgarity be '' Maud began ; but

checked herself, and said, '' I hardly spoke
a word till then."

'why did you not hold your tongue
altogether ? ^' Lyn went on ; her asperity
for once rousing her out of her wonted
silvery tones. " If anything happens, you
will have yourself to thank for it."

"Anything happens " Maud began,

but Lyn silenced her with a stamp of her
foot.

"At any rate, hold your tongue now''
and at that, Maud, incensed beyond measure,
rose and bounced out of the room,
her face scarlet with passion, the very
ribbons of her Mere Ingot cap bristling
with fury.

Mrs. D'Eyncourt had been an astonished
spectator of the whole scene. She had
glanced over at Cecie, and perceived from
the girl's downcast troubled face, that
such altercations were of no uncommon
occurrence.

She rose and took her leave ; and, as

the brougham-door closed on them, kissed
Cecie's wistful face, whispering soothingly,

"Poor child, poor child. I do indeed
pity you for being obliged to live with such
people. I can't think what your uncle is
about to leave you with them. Still, it
will soon be over now, and you have
always the comfort of knowing you don't
really belong to them."

Belong to them ? " Cecie asked
vaguely.

eyes, that you are not related to them.
When you are Lady Main waring you will,
of course, cut them."

Oh yes, yes," Cecie answered eagerly,
flushing hotly as she spoke. " As you say,
it would be a comfort to know they are
nothing to me." Then with a sudden
accession of passionate eagerness she
seized Mrs. D'Eyncourt's hand, and cried,

*' Dear Mrs. D'Eyncourt, after what you

have seen can you wonder I am unhappy ?
Could you wonder if I turned out ever so
badly, with that example always before
me ? It has made me wicked, made me
what I am. I have never had a chance
or I might have been so different. Say
you believe me, and if ever you hear bad
things said of me, pity me before you
blame me."

My dear child, you must not talk in
this wild way. You would have me fancy
you have done something very wrong. I
do pity you with all my heart, child ; but
I love you all the more that with all this
to contend with, your own innate goodness
has come to the surface."

Don't, oh don't. I am not good.
You don't know how wicked I am."

Hush my child. I won't let you talk
like this. You wicked ! Why dear, you
don't know yet what sin means."

Cecie said no more, but sat silently back
in her corner ; and Mrs. D'Eyncourt began
to have serious apprehensions that if the
girl were not soon removed from her
surroundings she would go out of her
mind.

She had scarcely been an hour in the
house before Sir Herbert sought her in her
little snuggery.

"Mrs. D'Eyncourt," he said excitedly,
"this must be off."

My dear boy, it must be more on than
ever."

'why?" he demanded fiercely. "Nobody
can force me to marry a girl like
that."

You can have nothing to say against
her."

Nothing, when she "

Sir Herbert checked himself. He was
too much of a man and a gentleman to

say how tie had been fooled, and continued
tamely, '' when she has relatives like
that ! "

But they are not her relatives ; and I
tell you this, if she goes back to them she
will lose her reason. She has been talking
in the wildest way about them, and I have
been wishing to see you to tell you that
you ought to get her uncle's consent at
once, and ^x the wedding for a very early
date."

Indeed Mrs. D'Eyncourt, I could
not "

Pray hear me out. I know you would
suggest that dear Cecie might object to
the affair being so hurried, but I will soon
smooth that difficulty away."

"Of that I have no doubt," the young
man said dryly ; but Mrs. D'Eyncourt
-continued without heeding him :

"I will do all I can to help you; and

VOL. I. T

I have been thinking that if the wedding
is to come off soon, I will keep her with
me until the event, and thus remove her
from the evil influence of those women."

Sir Herbert was in despair. Was Mrs.
D'Eyncourt even in the plot for his
destruction ? He was resolved not to lose
his liberty without a struggle.

You are too kind, Mrs. D'Eyncourt,
but indeed I am not in any hurry. In
truth, I would rather the marriage were
put off for some long time. How can
we tell whether we should agree — whether
we should live together happily ? Marriage
is an awful thing to enter on hurriedly."

Mrs. D'Eyncourt rose from her seat and
confronted him angrily.

May I ask what you meant when you
spoke to her of love ? "

I never did," he began ; then seeing
an expression of indignation sweeping over

Mrs. D'Eyncourt's face, he corrected himself,
and said sullenly, '^ I meant all right
enough, only I did not think I should be
forced to take the girl at once."

Mrs. D'Eyncourt flushed.

*' Sir Herbert, those are not proper words
to use. Nobody is forcing you to take
Cecie ; you proposed of your own freewill."


'did I!" he ejaculated.

*' I beg your pardon ? "

'* Nothing, nothing, I made no remark."

*then," she continued, "since you proposed
of your own free will, what possible
objections can you have to a speedy
wedding ? You are a strange lover."

Yes, I am an odd fellow, altogether.
I am afraid now that I might not make
Cecie happy," he said, brightening a little
with hope.

Her words crushed him once more.

*' Of that I have no doubt ; you area
gentleman, and a well-disposed fellow,
and a girl might safely trust her future
to a man possessed of those qualifications'


"You do me too much honour' he
said, turning away to hide his disappointment.


'' But we have not as yet arrived at
your objections to the wedding," Mrs.
D'Eyncourt pursued.

If I may speak candidly to you, I will
tell you. You see, when a fellow is young,
he likes to enjoy himself. You agree. Well,
a bachelor can enjoy life, a married man
can't."

And those are your opinions ? " she
asked coldly.

My candid opinions ; and now I think
you can see why I object to the marriage."

"Would you mind favouring me with

your opinions with regard to Cecie ? " Mrs
D'Eyncourt asked scornfully.

With regard to Cecie — well you see,
a fellow may meet a girl whom he
rather fancies ; and though he may not
want to marry her at once, he still
perhaps does not want any other fellow
to have her, so he secures her, and puts
her by."

There was a pause. He had hoped
by this seeming confidence to get Mrs.
D'Eyncourt on his side ; but the austere
expression of her face showed him that
he had gone too far, and he tried to
assume a carelessness he was far from
feeling. At last she said :

Herbert Mainwaring, you are a
scoundrel ! "

'' Mrs. D'Eyncourt ! " he exclaimed
starting to his feet.

*' Yes," she said fiercely ; '' I can see

through all this. You would engage
Cecie's affections while it suits you, and
when you are tired of her throw her
aside like a worn-out glove."

He did not answer, but could not
meet her clear, angry eyes.

"Do you suppose I shall allow you
to behave like this ? "

Indeed, Mrs. D'Eyncourt, you mistake
"

I hope I have mistaken you. I do
you the justice to trust I have. But
let me assure you, that if I have not
I shall take upon myself the guardianship
of this girl, and use the force of
which you have already complained."

I only wanted a year's respite — I
mean engagement," he said, driven from
one port of safety to the other,
and now seeing nothing; for him but
surrender. "As you think it desirable,

I will consent to any day you choose
to name."

** That is hardly a proper way to put
it," she said.

Sir Herbert rose.

"I beg your pardon if it is not so.
I am forced into a marriage I am unwilling
to contract, and I cannot and
will not pretend that the idea is anything
but distasteful to me," and he
left the room.

END OF VOL. I.

Charles DICKENS AND EVANS, Crystal FA LAOS Press.

3 0112 084212882

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS


H746b

BY

GENIE HOLTZMEYER

Author OF "dAUGHTEKS OF EVE," " MIZPAH," " HEE Owls Latin

^tuo ^olttines
VOL. II.

LONDON :
Tinsel Brothers, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND


\ All rights reserved"]

Portents.

CHAPTER I.

PAST?

MARRIAGE BELLS 1

CHAPTEE II.
A life's history 21

CHAPTEE III.
Cecily's prize 37

CHAPTER lY.

THE beginning OF THE END 52

CHAPTEE y.

PLAYED OUT . 62

CHAPTEE YI.

AN ORDEAL 77

CHAPTER VII.

Page

THE BITTERNESS OF DEATH 98

CHAPTER Viii.

FLIGHT 113

CHAPTER IX.

THE DISCOVERY 129

CHAPTER X.

CRUSHED . . . . . 151

CHAPTER XI.

STRUGGLING 162

CHAPTER XII.

THE TRUTH AT LAST 175

CHAPTER XIII.

ON THE TRACK 193

CHAPTER XIV.

FOUND . . 203

CHAPTEE XV.

Page

PEACE 223

CHAPTER XVI.
LIKE Caesar's wife 239

L'ENVOI 262

CHAPTER I.

MARRIAGE BELLS.

Many and curious are the minor wheels
that, though often working in contrary
directions, move together to set in motion
the one great wheel of life.

In the present instance — Cecie's wedding
four people had been brought together
who would gladly have kept any distance
between them.

Sir Hugh Stapylton had of course been
bidden to the wedding, as uncle of the
bride, and was staying at Sibthorp.

Dick Challoner, some weeks back, had

VOL. II. B

received a note from Mrs. D'Eyncourt,

inviting him with his wife and daughter
to the wedding. The Hon. Richard had
known Sir Herbert from infancy, and he,
having no sister of his own, had asked
Louise Shallower to officiate as bridesmaid.
Louise was of course delighted, though her
parents knew nothing of the bride beyond
the fact that Sir Herbert stated her to bethe
daughter of the late Col. the Hon.
Edward de Vere, third son of the late
Earl of Windermere. They were to arrive
at Eaglescliff late on the eve of the
wedding.

Miss Ainsworthy had also received a
gracious note from Mrs. D'Eyncourt, and,
coupled as it was with Cecie's entreaties,
she accepted, though still hardly recovered
from her recent illness, and by no means
desirous of meeting Sir Hugh so soon.

She was to go down by the afternoon
train, and had hardly seated herself in the

carriage, when two ladies and a gentleman
entered-it. She never raised her
eyes from her book till a familiar voice
said :

'^ How do you do, Miss Ainsworthy ? "
It was Mrs. Challoner, and, looking up
she met Dick's eyes fixed on her searchingly.
She made a movement as though
to leave the carriage ; but at the moment
the whistle sounded, the train was in
motion, and she was forced to return the
greetings.

Are you not pleased to see me ? " she
asked, holding her hand.

''To see you, yes," Mabel answered,
laughing.

Then kiss me and prove it," she said,
holding up her pleasant good-humoured
face.

Mabel kissed her willingly ; but still
without noticing Dick. Mrs. Challoner
leant forward and whispered :

B 2

I know you are angry with Dick
Make it up, do."

Mabel drew back, shaking her head
haughtily ; but Mrs. Challoner pleaded
eagerly :

I know he behaved badly, and offended
you."

"Nay, rather insulted," Mabel interposed.


Yes, yes, I know ; and he confessed
as much to me ; but do forgive him. I
know that he is very sorry. Can you
not pardon him ? "

'hardly," Mabel returned coldly.

Do try. It was partly your fault."

"My fault?"

Yes ; if you had not been so charming
he would never have offended. Forgive
him, for my sake. How can we be friends
if you will not speak to him ? And I
have my little Louise with me, who is so
anxious to know you."

"Mrs. Challoner I cannot. I have vowed
never voluntarily to speak to your husband
again."

Well, and you won't do so now.
Dick ! " she called, and as he seated
himself beside her, added: 'make your
peace."

'' k.m I forgiven?" he asked, holding out
his hand to Mabel.

I cannot forgive, but I will endeavour
to forget," she answered icily, never attempting
to extend her own.

Will you be the same as you were
before ? "

"I will endeavour to be cordial with
you, for your wife's sake."

And must I be content with that ? "
he asked ruefully.

'' I think she is a great deal kinder
to you than you deserve," his wife said,
laughing. '' Now shake hands, and let
us have a cosy journey down."

Mabel somewhat reluctantly complied ;
but the cloud cleared from her brow
when she turned round to meet the
smiling saucy face of Challoner's daughter,
and took in her own the mite of a hand
so warmly extended.

Louise Challoner in no way resembled
either of her parents. They were both
tall and big, whereas she was the tiniest
little woman imaginable. A trim round
figure, diminutive hands and feet, a small
face in which every line and curve tended
towards an expression of saucy sweetness,
and large, very wide-open brown eyes.
Her piquancy was heightened by the way
she wore her hair — parted on one side and
brushed into countless short curls on her
forehead.

Mabel felt instinctively drawn to her,
and listened with unfeigned amusement
to her quaint speeches and pleasing voice.
Dick was very subdued. He felt his

footing to be far from firm, so preferred
silence to a snubbing. Nor was he slow to
perceive that bright little Louise would be
another link to bind Mabel into tolerating
him.

In a very short time the woman and
the girl had formed the commencement
of a warm attachment. Mabel's, a pure
liking for the bright, fresh, unsullied nature
of the girl ; and Louise's, a worship
bordering on idolatry for the most beautiful
and charming woman it had ever been her
lot to meet.

Mabel's surprise may be imagined when
she learnt that they too were bound for
the Cornish wedding. When Mrs. Challenger
questioned her about the bride, she
only replied that she had been placed
at her school by her uncle, but without
mentioning who he was, for she could not
bear to breathe Sir Hugh's name in Dick
Challoner's hearing.

Thus they journeyed on, little thinking
what awaited them on the morrow.

*'My wedding morning' Cecie said,
waking, and resting on her elbow, while
she took the cup of chocolate her maid
had brought for her ; " my wedding
morning. Pull up the blind and let me
look out Marie. I used to think it
would be awfully nice to be married, but
I'm not sure I think so now."

"Mais, mam'selle! Not nice, when you
have all these beautiful new dresses ? Look
at the white satin. Why, you ought to bethe
happiest demoiselle in the world."

"Dresses don't make happiness Marie.
Though," she added to herself, '^I fear they
will have to make mine." Then to her
maid she said : " Leave me now Marie ; I
will ring by-and-by," and as the door closed
on her she soliloquised : "In a few more
hours I shall be for ever freed from that

hated life with those two horrible women ;
but whether I shall be happier, God only
knows. One little month ago I had but
sone thought, and that was to secure Sir
Herbert ; and now that the prize is so surely
mine, I would gladly relinquish it if I could.
He does not care for me ; no, not a bit.
He'll marry me because he feels in honour
bound ; but after — what will come after ?
He does not even keep up the slightest
show of affection. He has been away three
weeks, and in that time has written to me
once : ' Dear Miss De Vere. — Yours truly.
If I had accepted poor Darrell, he would
have been very different ; but somehow I
-am glad I did not sell myself to him. He
deserves a better wife than ever I shall be,
and as for the man I have to marry, I
suppose so long as he takes me about and
gives me plenty of money I ought to be
happy. No, not happy ; rather content.
Happiness means love; content is money.

I wonder whether Herbert will ever love
me ? I fear he is not likely to ; and if he
ever finds out the true story of my birth it
won't increase the likelihood. But it is no
use indulging in gloomy thoughts. I must
go through with this wedding. I have
gone too far to retrace my steps, but I can
and will try to make up in the future for
the past." Then rising she rang her bell,
and commenced dressing.

Hardly had she completed her toilette
when Miss Ainsworthy entered, to bring
her a handsome ring, and to admonish her
once more as to her past and future.

"My child," she concluded, ''I greatly
fear you don't love the man you are marrying
as a wife should love her husband, and
the result may bring misery to you both ;
though if you enter on this new life with a
fixed determination to do your duty, you
will find peace, and in time happiness. If
ever you are in trouble dear, no matter

what, come to me, and I will help you afar
as it lies in my power." And kissing
lier tenderly, she went downstairs to chat
with the other guests till time to start for
church.

The Fitz Alley ns were to give a grand
ball in the evening in honour of the wedding,
to which all the guests and neighbourhood
were invited, and the preparations
were on so magnificent a scale, that Maud
in her sweet amiability had no fear but
that she could easily eclipse what she was
pleased to term Mrs. D'Eyncourt's "little
breakfast."

At last the start was made, and as they
passed through the village there were
evident signs of rejoicing; for Miss Fitz
Allen, with all her faults, was very kindhearted
and good to the poor. Every
cottage exhibited a flag or decoration of
some kind, and all the villagers and fishers,
decked in their best, were hurrying to the

church, there to form themselves into an
admiring and buzzing group.

Maud had given the school-children
white frocks, and baskets with flowers to
strew before Cecie as she returned to her
carriage Lady Main waring ; and she had
also been occupied in decorating the church
with flowers.

It was a gala day — the sun shining
brightly overhead, a soft quiet breeze
rippling the sweet blue sea that plashed
tenderly against the rocks, as if to remind
them that though their married life was
stormy at times, yet they had loved and
still loved, despite the many times they
would part in anger, only to meet again in
fiercer fury.

Up rolled the carriages full of blue-robed
bridesmaids, laughing at the compliments of
the attendant grooms, each damsel that the
villagers recognised being loudly cheered.

Then the guests. Beautiful Mabel Ains-worthy

in a soft pale sea-green dress,
covered with clouds of old filmy lace, a
dainty bonnet that looked as though blown
together with fairy breezes, and rarely-carved
rich coral ornaments. With her
Dick Challoner, quiet, courteous, unobtrusive,
but impossible to avoid. Darrell
D'Eyncourt also, attending sweet little
Louise, whose winsome face won the hearts
of the on-lookers.

Bless her sweet face," said one, " she'll
be the next bride, mark my words," and
as Louise, blushing and shy at these very
broad compliments, strove to hide her
face in her bouquet, it slipped from her
hand, and rolled to the side. Before
Darrell could reach it, an old man amongst
the bystanders had seized it, and holding
it to her, said :

You did right to throw it away, missis ;
you don't need no flowers, for you are the
bonniest among them yourself."

Louise took the bouquet from him with
a soft smile, then holding it to him, said
shyly :

Would you like them ? "

Ay, that I would, missis," he answered
heartily ; ^' but they're too good for the
like o' me. Just ye use them the day
through, and when ye're done with them,
send 'em down to old Nat Martin. They'll
remind him of the little teddy however
dead they are," and he withdrew into
the crowd as she passed on into the
church.

Mabel and Dick proceeded slowly up
the aisle.

"It's slow knowing no one here," he
was just saying, when suddenly he started
violently, and Mabel looking up, followed
the direction of his eyes.

Just before them two ladies and a
gentleman were standing ; the gentleman
was Sir Hugh Stapylton, but the ladies,

who were dressed in the extreme height
of fashion, Mabel did not recognise.

Sir Hugh advanced with a hot flush
on his face, and taking Mabel's hand, said :

"Miss Ainsworthy, I hoped you would
not come ; " and as Mabel looked at him
in silent astonishment, she heard Dick
Challoner exclaim, in a voice of amazement
:

Ada ! Miami ! how the did you

get here ? "

She looked towards the two ladies and
saw the colour fade from both their faces,
and one seemed as though she would
have fainted.

"Why Ada, what's the matter?" he
again demanded.

Pulling herself together with a great
effort, she cried hoarsely :

'"' For Heaven's sake not that name.
We are the Miss FitzAUeyns — and don't
know you."

'^ What does it all mean ? " he cried,
bewildered.

That you must forget the past' she
said eagerly.

"And the present?"

'ris the marriage of Sir Hugh Stapleton's
niece."

A light gleamed in Dick Challoner's
eyes.

'' Is there any foul play ? " he said.
'mainspring is my friend, almost a son
to me. Who is the bride ? "

'' Sir Hugh Stapylton's niece' Lyn
said, with a tremor in her voice.

And not "

No, no ! " cried Lyn. '' Here she is ! "

I can't allow this to go on' he cried ;
''I must ask Stapylton about it."

"You cannot, you shall not," Maud
whispered; but Dick's hand was laid on
Sir Hugh's arm, and he said in a low
hurried voice :

^'Who is this girl?"

*' Guess for yourself' Sir Hugh answered
in the same tone.

*does Main waring know?"

I believe so. I never saw him till last
night. He wrote for my consent, and
from the letter — which I will give you — -
he appears to. I endeavoured to mention
it last night, but he said he would rather
not speak on the subject."

Dick Challoner took the letter and read
the following paragraph :

'' I am fully aware of the peculiar
circumstances of Miss De Vere's life, and
my request for a speedy marriage is
to be enabled to remove her from a
guardianship which, must be as objectionable
to yourself as to me."

"Then I have no more to say," said
Dick returning the letter, and adding to

VOL. II. C

himself, " but that Herbert is a bigger
fool than I took him for." Then turning
to the FitzAlleyns, who were watching
him anxiously, he said : "I am satisfied ;
I shall not mar this charming wedding."

The bride arrived, looking wonderfully
pretty in her snowy robes and long white
flowing veil.

The ceremony proceeded without the
slightest hitch, and Cecie, pale and
trembling, walked down the aisle on her
husband's arm, vaguely wondering what
her married life would prove.

The breakfast went over as such dreary
festivals usually do. Dick Challoner,
seated beside Miss FitzAUeyn, was deep ina
long undertone conversation. Sir Hugh
had found an opportunity to speak to Miss
Ains worthy.

*you heard the conversation in the
church ? " he had asked.

I could not avoid doing so."

'' It needs an explanation," lie said,
"and to-night I hope to find an opportunity
of telling you all. Will you
listen ? "

She bowed her head gravely, and he left
her.

Darrell D'Eyncourt had been prepared to
find the day of Cecie's wedding the most
miserable one of his life. He had suffered
tortures during the term of the engagement,
and the constant nearness of Cecie
but added fresh pangs to his wound.

He had passed a night of sleeplessness
and agony, and the day before the wedding
had wandered about in a state bordering
on distraction.

Evening came, and with it the arrival
of the expected guests. Mrs. D'Eyncourt,
with mind filled with the anxieties of the
next day, had begged him to entertain
them for her. He went reluctantly, and
greeted them almost absently ; but, despite

himself, he was roused to action and almost
enjoyment by the gay brightness of little
Louise.

When night came he found himself far
less unhappy than he anticipated, and
much more inclined for sleep ; but through
his dreams Louise Challoner's clear voice
and fresh face echoed continually.

He had not found the wedding-day so
wretched, enlivened as it had been by
Louise's saucy chatter, and to his surprise
he found he could be gay at the breakfast,
even when he knew that Cecie had but
just been parted from him for ever.

The so-called happy pair started at last,
and for the rest of the day, till time for
the grand ball at the Fitz Alley ns, the
garden at Eaglescliff was alive with laughter
and colour.

A life's history.

Carriage after carriage rolled up to the
broad steps of Sibthorp Manor. The ball
was certainly a success, though the mistresses
of the house seemed hardly inspirits
to enjoy it.

Despite their bravery of dress, powder,
and paint, there was a wanness about their
faces that could not pass unremarked.
Everyone thought it must be sorrow for
parting with Cecie, and condoled with
them accordingly, and thought what nice
feeling they showed. No one divined the
true cause ; though, had they been present
at a little conversation that took place on

the return from the breakfast, they would
have been better informed.

Hurrying at once into Miss FitzAUeyn's
sanctum they had faced each other, and
given voice to their apprehension.

Will he expose us ? " Lyn asked,
panting.

Maud buried her face in her hands, and
gasped :

"Will he expose me to Hugh?"

Do you think he would do that ? ''
Lyn asked, with a start.

"I believe he would; and if he did, it
would mean ruin, beggary, starvation."

"You must bind him to silence."

*•' I tried this morning."

And what did he say ? "

"That he really could not make up his
mind ; that he feared it would suit his
purpose to tell."

Oh Maud ! are there no means of
forcing him to keep silence ? "

None. I know Dick Challoner of old.
He is not a man to threaten idly. Without
doubt he has some scheme of his own on
hand that my secret will be of use in ;
and he would sacrifice me with no more
concern than he would smash a fly. I
wish I could find out his little game ; I'd
ruin it for him. No Lyn, we shall find
one day soon, that we have to make a bolt
for it. The best thing we can do is to
feather our nests while we've got the down
handy. Our expenses must be put down,
and we must declare them heavier. Now
I will have a brandy-and-soda if you'll
ring, and go and lie down to try and get
a wink of sleep before time to put on the
war-paint."

It was hardly surprising, under these
circumstances, that they did look haggard
and unfit to enjoy the festivities when
night came.

The ball was at its height when Sir Hugh

entered the dancing-room in search of Miss
Ainsworthy.

Mabel was a good dancer, and thoroughly
enjoyed dancing, but to-night she was going
in for it more than usual ; for she had overheard
Dick Challoner lamenting that he
never danced, and reviling it as an exercise
only fit for servants and shop-girls, because
he, Dick Challoner, did not join in it.
Mabel decided that by dancing she would
easily be able to avoid him, and, though he
so far unbent from his rule as to engage
himself to her for two square dances, she
had succeeded in her object.

Sir Hugh made his way to her side, and,
claiming her for the waltz, in a moment they
were floating away together.

'forgive me," he whispered, ''I ought
not to have made you dance this, but I
wanted just a few moments of happiness to
give me strength for the task that lies
before me."

Mabel smiled on him softly, and gave
herself up heart and soul to the pleasure of
being once more near to the man she so
hopelessly loved.

By-and-by they stopped close to an
open window, and through it he led her
along the deserted terrace. Finding her a
seat, he hurried back for a wrap, and returning
with one, folded it tenderly round
her shoulders, and, after a few moments'
hesitation, he spoke :

*now that the time has come for the
explanation, it seems almost impossible tome
to lay bare before you the heart that
has so long been bowed down by its weight
of sorrow. I have borne it all so long:
alone, that it seems a harder task than I
thought to show myself to you as I am ;
and yet I feel that to you, whom I
love better than my life, and whose kind
word I prize more highly than all the
gifts Fortune could bestow — to you I

shall find some solace in unbelieving my
sorrow.

"I know I have behaved basely and
cruelly, my poor darling; and I can never
pardon myself for the part I have acted.
But to see you was to love you, and to love
you was to gaze on Paradise from Hell.

I saw what might have been, if only
my hand could blot out the irrevocable
past, and my soul writhed in torments.

Yet I sought you. I never dared think
that you felt more for me than simple kindness
and friendship. At times a wild thought
came to me that perhaps you might, you
did, entertain a warmer feeling for me ; but
I banished the idea, for I knew that if it
ever became a reality, my hours — nay,
my moments — in your society would be
numbered.

'' For that mad night I never can — never
will — forgive myself; and yet it would
perhaps have been worse — far worse — to

live on deluding myself, and you too, with
false vain hopes, than to face the situation
and crush out the despair.

"Mabel, I don't know how to tell you
the truth, but told it shall be ; for this purpose
I have forced my society on you, and
it shall be told. How can I tell you the
horrible truth !

Mabel, all you see around you is mine,
and its mistress, my wife — you shudder,
and well you may — that woman who calls
herself Maud FitzAlleyn, has been the bane
and curse of my life. She was an actress.
Many weary years ago I met her. She was
ill, and in poverty, and was being basely
treated by a man whom I knew. I befriended
her and saved her from him, aiding
her as much as it lay in my power. To be
brief, she was very lovely, and I then very
young and very foolish, and besides, master
of myself and my property.

"In a very short time she had cajoled

me into marrying her. I soon saw the
folly I had been guilty of, but I would
have stood by her and acknowledged her,
had she let me. But no, she always implored
me to wait, saying she was so
happy as she was, that she dreaded anyone
trying to come between us if it were
known to the world. I don't think I
ever cared much about her ; her beauty
fascinated me, but I never really loved
her ; and, as I saw more of her, her coarseness
appalled and disgusted me. I did
not wish for any concealment, and was
determined to put the thing straight before
the world.

Finding she was so obdurate, I went
abroad for a time, partly to be free from
her and partly to allow time to work what
persuasion could not.

"For nearly three months I wandered
about, not caring to send home for letters.
One day a fit of duty overcame me, and

I started on the return journey. Passing
tlirouofli Paris I found letters at the hotel
I always used. Amongst them was one
from Ada Wilmot — the name Miss Fits
then went by, announcing the
birth of a daughter, and also her intention
of returning to the stage ; she found life
in the home I had provided for her
too humdrum. I hurried over to find
the statement quite correct. She refused
to be acknowledged, saying she would
swear the story was false if I persisted
in it ; and suggested I should be wise
not to do so for the sake of the child.
She threw out a hint that perhaps at
some future time, when she was tired of
the stage, she would suffer it.

I tried persuasion, force — everything
to make her alter her determination — but
all to no purpose ; and at last, I left the
country altogether, after having put a
sufficient sum in my banker's hands for

the proper support of my wife and child.
She was very anxious I should settle
something on her ; but there I was as
determined as herself — refusing to do so
till she allowed me to acknowledge her.
Very glad I was that I had been so firm ;
for, when I returned to England some
few years later, I found to my horror that
she and her sister had dragged my little
Cecily on to the stage with them.

"I threatened to stop all supplies instantly
if she were not taken off, and put under
proper care, and have ever since remained
on the spot to see she was well treated.

"About three years ago my wife condescended
to give up the stage, and came
to live here, still refusing obstinately to
be acknowledged ; and indeed now I am
by no means anxious to alter the relations
between ns. You can imagine what
a shattered unloved life mine has been,
and is ! That woman is a chain upon me

that drags me away from all happiness,
and binds me a slave to misery and
remorse. At times I gained from the
present a little content, but that is even
now denied me. I have dared to love, and
from henceforth my life must be one long
bitter penitence for the sin which, alas !
does not alone involve me."

There was a long pause, Mabel knew
not what to say. Her heart was filled
with pity for herself and for him, but she
could not speak ; her grief and sympathy
were too great for words. At last, mastering
her emotion, she stretched out her
hand, and, clasping his, looked earnestly
into his face with moistened eyes.

Sir Hugh was content, and, laying
his other hand over hers, he said :

''I knew you would pity me ; I knew
your loving heart would feel for the grief
in mine. Mabel darling ! if the future
holds for me such bliss as freedom from

my bonds, may I fly to you? May I
ask then for those kisses I would give
my soul for now, yet dare not ask ?
Mabel, will you put your hand in mine
and murmur in the ear — that I will bend
so closely to catch the trembling tones —
the life-giving words, 'Hugh, I love
you ! ' Then sweetheart, you will raise
your eyes to meet mine, and instead, you
will find your lips madly, wildly, pressed
in rapture to my own, and we will part
no more."

His voice trembled with intense emotion ;
his breath came quick and fast; he bent
towards her to fold her in his arms. With
a silent gesture, Mabel repulsed him, and
rising laid her hand on his arm, and gazing
reproachfully at him, calmed the storm that
was raging within him.

Hush ! I entreat you," she said ; " we
must not think of a future that may never
come. Remember that, after all, you have

just told me, such words as are an insult
to me. I do love you Hugh ; but I
love you too well to let you steak
words which debase both yourself and
me. We must part, and part till we
can meet calmly as friends, or until
there is no need for restraint, if that
time ever comes. Who can tell what
the future holds for us ? We must
wait patiently, and take cheerfully whatever
falls to our lot. This I will give
you for your comfort : if no change
comes, if death should part us before
you are released, then remember this,
Hugh. I never have loved, and never
can love, any other than you ; and living
or dead, I will be true to you — and to
myself."

'' I deserve your rebuke," he said
humbly. " I thank you, Mabel, for your
goodness. I honour you even more than
I love you ; and trust me, I too will

VOL. II. D

be faithful till the end ; I too will be
true to you — and to myself"

With a silent band-clasp, to register
their mutual vow, they returned again
to the ballroom.

Some of the guests had departed, and
amongst the number the Eaglescliff party,
with the exception of Dick Challoner,
who waited to escort Miss Ains worthy.

'' Have you enjoyed the ball ? '' he
asked, as they were on their homeward
way.

'every much."

'you are looking fatigued. Were you
not surprised to see Sir Hugh ? "

"Not at all. I knew he would be there."

"He has a sad story poor fellow,
known only to himself and me, unless,
indeed, you have learned it. Have you ? "

Yes."

"Oh, he told you himself?"

'^ I can't see how this concerns you."

In this way : that if you made it
worth my while to tell, I fancy I know
a small fact that might be of great
service to Sir Hugh's happiness."

'you do? Tell it me."

Nothing for nothing Miss Ainsworthy."

"Mr. Challoner!"

'' Of course you are indignant ; but
let me tell you, Miss Ainsworthy, there
is no more harm in my speaking thus
to you than in Sir Hugh doing so. Weare
situated precisely in the same manner.
The fact is, you love one and hate the other ;
hence what is virtue in him, is vice in
me. You will not have my secret, then ? "

'* No ! " she answered indignantly ; "I
scorn you and it. Dare to speak one
word more in this strain, and no pleadings
from your wife shall make me speak
to you again."

D 2

Challoner gave a short laugh, and sat
back in his corner murmuring :

"That has failed then. There are other
resources in your fertile brain, though
Dick."

Cecily's prize.

It was a bright frosty morning, the
bare branches of the trees in the park
round Main waring Hall, glistened and
shone with myriads of icicles in the faint
red sunlight that glimmered amongst
them. The ground was thick with pure
white snow, the whole landscape clad
in its snowy winter's garb.

The occupants of the Hall were seated
at breakfast. Sir Herbert, Lady Main-waring,
and Mr. Geoffrey Tremayne — Sir
Herbert's half-brother.

Cecie was looking charming, much

prettier than a few montis ago, before
lier marriage. There had been no soul
in her face before — it had been simply
doll-like and pretty ; but now there was
a depth in her eyes, a light that was
not born of happiness, but which gave
to her face that which it had always
lacked — expression.

To be really pretty, a woman's face must
be one of three things — clever, piquante, or
interesting. Either attribute will give it
the requisite charm in the eyes of the
grosser animal, man ; but a face that wants
all of these three, however perfectly formed
and coloured, will soon pall on the senses,
and eventually disgust them.

Sir Herbert's face was heavier and more
discontented than ever; and yet, judging
from the frequent and loving glances Cecie
sent across to him, it was evident that to
her it had become the perfection of manly
beauty.

Geoffrey Tremayne was a dark dapper
little man, rattler good-looking and intensely
gentlemanly — a great contrast to his half-brother.


He seemed to be much interested
in watching his brother and his brother's
young wife, but with a kindly expression
on his face that seemed to say he wished
them well.

Throwing aside his paper with an angry
exclamation, Sir Herbert said :

'* I never saw anything like the papers
now ; they're as dull — as dull as everything
else. When one is forced to live in a
beastly hole like this, there might at least
be something in the papers to vary the
monotony. There's this frost ! "What's to
be done in the country when there's a
frost? All the hunting season passing away
without the chance of a run. I can't stand
this moping any longer. I shall run upto
town, and see if everyone is as deadly-lively

there as they are here. I shall go up
to-day."

May I come too ? " Cecie asked, her
face flushing as she spoke to him.

'' No, I don't want you."

Oh, but, Herbert, you surely won't
leave me here without you ? " she asked,
tears springing to her eyes at the mere
thought.

"That is precisely my intention. Men
don't want to be forced to drag their wives
about with them wherever they go. I have
been moped and miserable here long
enough, and I am going away to enjoy
myself, so I most certainly do not intend
to take you."

Cecie flushed hotly, but made no rejoinder.
Geoffrey looked up as though he
would have spoken, but restrained Himself.
In a minute Sir Herbert spoke again.

You can have people down here to

amuse you, if you like. Ask Louise
Challoner and D'Eyncourt."

Oh ! not Darrell," she said quickly.

Her husband looked up, his face contorted
with passion.

And why not Darrell ? Is this another
of your secrets — another of these odd bits
of the past, which are always cropping
up?"

'' Herbert ! Herbert 1 " said Geoffrey.

*' Don't interfere, Geoff. What's your
reason, Lady Main waring ? "

Herbert, I can't stay to hear you speak
in this way," Geoffrey said, rising.

"Go to the ! " he answered

passionately, and as the door closed on his
brother, he turned to his wife : " Now for
your reason."

'' I had no reason, Herbert," she answered.

That nonsense won't do for me. You
have a reason ; out with it."

Cecie could not say that she did not
want Darrell to see how unhappy she was,
so she only faltered out :

He asked me to marry him. He was
fond of me."

Oh, is that it ? You may make your
mind quite easy on that score then. He
was quite consoled for your loss — which
you seem to fancy so irreparable — by little
Louise Challoner. You shall see them
here together, just to reprove your vanity,"
and catching up his hat, which lay near, he
strode out through the French window,
which, having flung open, he left for his
little wife to close.

His footsteps had hardly died away on
the crisp snow when Geoffrey reappeared.

May I return Cecily ? " he asked.
He received no answer. Cecie, with
tears in her eyes, was watching her
lord's retreating figure.

Geoffrey liked his little sister-in-law,

and noticed with distrust the unkind and
often boorish way his brother behaved
to her. He very frequently felt inclined
to administer a sound thrashing on Cecie's
behalf, for though very good friends with
his step-brother, he was not above seeing
his faults.

He approached Cecie softly, and said
kindly :

"Never mind about Herbert. He
always was a bear. Don't cry."

'but it's my fault. I am always
vexing him," she said piteously.

Nonsense ! That you are not. I
should think you would be far nearer
the mark if you said he was always
vexing you."

''Oh, indeed no Geoffrey!"

Indeed yes ; and if you were not
so good to him, he would be far kinder
to you."

"I think he means to be kind; but

oh, if you knew how sad he makes
me ! I often wish I had never married.
It was bad enough before, but life has
been a hundred times worse since."

What ! were you not happy at home ? "

'^ Home ! " she echoed. " I had no
home ; and oh Geoffrey, it is so sad to
live like this. I don't think Herbert will
ever forgive me, and the thought is so
terrible to me."

Forgive you ! What for ? "' Geoffrey
asked, in surprise.

Cecily paused, and gazed earnestly at
him for a moment ; and then, putting out
her hand to him, said :

May I trust you Geoffrey ? May I
tell you my trouble ? It would be such
a relief to do so ; to have someone to
unburden my heart to ; and you have
always been so good to me. May I speak
to you as if you were really my own
brother?"

''To be sure you may, you poor little
woman ; and if there is anything I can
do to make you happier, you can count
on me. Tell me what it is that is
troubling you? What do you want Herbert's
forgiveness for ? "

'' Because I married him for a home,
and he knows it ; married him without
really loving him, or caring whether he
really loved me. He will never forgive
me for it, and I believe sometimes he
almost hates me."

'you must not think that. You were
certainly very very wrong to marry him
without caring for him. Marriage is too
serious a thing to be entered on lightly;
but to such a young girl as you, it is not
likely it assumed such a serious aspect ;
and it was far more the fault of those
you were with than your own. Someone
ought to have talked to you, and bade you
consider the step you were about to take.

A fine house is a very nice thing Cecie,
but were I a woman, ay, and a lady, I
would rather teach, or serve in a shop, orbe
a telegraph-clerk to the end of my days,
with never a sixpence too much in my
pocket, than marry a man, whom I did
not love, for the sake of his money. But
there, it's no use crying over spilt milk ;
and there is this in your favour — that if
you did not love the man you married
at the time you were wed, you very soon
learnt to after. Don't start Cecie, I can
read your secrets for myself: you love
your husband now. Is it not so ? "

'' Yes," Cecie faltered, '' but he does not
care about me. Was he ever fond of
anyone else ? Is that the reason of his
coldness to me ? "

Geoffrey felt half inclined to smile, she
raised such anxious eyes to his face.

"Don't be alarmed about that," he
rejoined quickly. " Herbert never cared

for anything but himself and his dogs.
He is not a sociable man, or one at all
likely to be demonstrative, but I think
he is very fond of you."

'' Do you really ? "

Oh yes, I am sure of it ; " and Geoffrey
turned away that she might not read the
doubting expression on his face. It had
at the moment occurred to him that, on
the very few occasions on which he had
heard Sir Herbert speaking of his wife,
he had always spoken in the most
slighting and unkind way.

Are all girls unhappy when they
marry ? " Cecie asked, after a pause, and
looking up to Geoffrey as an oracle on
matrimonial matters — a position he by
no means disliked. Who so ready to
lecture on the married state, smooth all
the rugged paths, unravel the knots —
in theory — as bachelors and spinsters ?
Bachelors' wives, and maids' husbands.

always are perfectly well managed, and
models in every way.

"Well, you see," lie answered, " girls
who have no brothers do not understand
men, and are always unhappy for the first
six months of their married life. After that
time they begin to get accustomed to their
husbands' ways, and they settle down and
are comfortable. You see, men and women
are so different. Now the wife very often
feels slighted if her husband does not make
a great fuss with her when he returns home
tired after a day's hunting, or shooting, or
business ; and at first, when he finds this
out, he does his best to humour her, but ita
bore to him, and in time becomes such
an intolerable nuisance that he gets ill-tempered
with her, and they drift apart.
There is nothing a man hates so much as
feeling bound to make a fuss with his wife,
whether he is inclined or not. He likes to
come in, dress, have his dinner, and then

be allowed an hour's quiet to read Ms paper
or sleep ; and if the wife has only the sense
to leave him alone till mind and body are
rested, he would be as agreeable as she
could desire for the rest of the evening. I
can quite see the subject from the wife's
point of view at the same time. She has
been alone, perhaps nearly the whole day,
and has been counting on her husband's
return for a little companionship, and feels
disappointed, and perhaps vexed, at his
taciturnity when he does come in. A little
forbearance on both sides would not be
amiss. Women expect life to be like a
novel — all love and that sort of thing — and
they find the reality so very different. As
wives, they should expect only a very little
love, and not bother for more than they get,
and they will soon find their reward in
watching the increasing growth of their
husband's affection, instead of having to
see it daily withering away, till the life

VOL. II. B

is almost extinct. I am only speaking for
your good Cecie, and because I cannot bear
to bear you complain, like so many another *
young wife, of your husband's lack of love.
Treat Herbert as though you were fond of him
certainly — but not as though he were a kind
of idol. Do what he wishes you to do, and
all that sort of thing, but don't let him find
out how much you care for him. I should
write to Louis Challoner and D'Eyncourt
at once, and let him find the letters written
when he returns at lunch. You will bea
very happy couple by-and-by, never
fear," and with a pleasant smile he went
away.

With a weary sigh and heavy heart,
Cecie went to the writing-table to carry
out Geoffrey's kind advice. Poor girl, hers
seemed a very sad life. By some strange
fascination, or perhaps by the feminine love
of being bullied, she had grown to dote

upon the husband who never gave her an
affectionate word, never caressed her, and
who never scrupled to show how extremely
bored he felt in her society.

E 2

UNIVERSITY Of
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

THE Beginner OF THE END.

Louise Challoner and Darrell arrived.
As Ceeie had feared, she found her husband
even more unkind to her after their arrival
than he had been before. He was always
twittinof her with her former flirtations,
and jealous and suspicious if she spoke fora
moment to Darrell.

She found this very hard to bear, and
particularly so when in the society of
Darrell she realised what a true heart she
had thrown away for an empty title which
had given her nothing but unhappiness.

She did not care for Darrell. Never for
one moment did her heart waver from its

allegiance to her husband, but she noticed
the many little attentions which he paid
Louise, and which her husband never
thought of offering to her; and she could
not help thinking that all this would have
been hers had she only not been dazzled
by Sir Herbert's title.

Louise was evidently growing very fond
of Darrell, and he liked her far better
than any other woman he knew — after
Cecie. The fact of her being Lady Main-waring,
another man's wife, had cured
Barrels love. She was not for him, so
he would not think of her ; and little
Louise had laid her soft fingers on his
wound, and held its gaping edges together
so tenderly, that he could not help feeling
warmly towards her, and she was gradually
creeping into that place in his heart which
had been Cecie' s.

Darrell had come to Mainwaring Hall
because he had misgivings about Sir

Herbert, and wanted to see if Cecie were
well treated ; and he stayed because, to
his grief, he found she was not.

It was a dull oppressive day. Cecie's
spirits, now never very high, had to-day
sunk below zero. She felt unusually depressed,
and as she said to Louise with a
sad little smile, " as though something were
going to happen." "When the post-bag
arrived, the weight that had been lying on
her heart grew heavier, till she could hardly
breathe.

Her husband opened it.

There is only one letter, and that is
for you. Lady Mainwaring," he said.

Oh," she rejoined listlessly, and stretching
out her hand for it.

He never attempted to give it her, but
sat turning it over, examining it.

"I don't know the writing," he said
suspiciously. " I shall open it."

Very well," she answered.

He tore off the envelope, and began to
read. In a moment his face darkened to
fury.

'' Come with me," he said. " I want to
speak to you."

Making an excuse to her guests, Cecie
rose and followed him into the library.

''Kead that," her husband said, tossing
the letter to her.

It was from Maud FitzAUeyn, and ran
thus :

*'Deae, Ceo,

'^ I am hard up, and must beg you
to send me a liberal cheque by return of
post. I dare not apply to my bankers, as
I have already had my allowance. Considering
the tie between us, I feel myself
justified in writing to you. Indeed,
it is plainly your duty to send me whatever
you can spare.

'' Yours affectionately,

"Maud FitzAlleyn."

What does this mean ? " he asked
fiercely.

Cecie trembled and quailed before him.
The awful moment had come when he
would discover the one great secret of her
life. She felt sure that if he knew the
truth about her parentage he would put
her from him at once. At any cost she
must prevent the discovery.

With white face but firm lips she
answered :

It seems plain enough : Aunt Maud
wants money."

'' Aunt Maud ! " he echoed, with an
oath. "Have I not forbidden you to
speak of those women as your relatives ?
What is this tie she speaks of ? "

I — I don't know," Cecie faltered.

"You know you are speaking falsely," he
said savagely, seizing her by the shoulder
and forcing her to face him.

Oh Herbert 1 Herbert ! You hurt me ! "

she cried piteously, raising her eyes to his
face. But she read no mercy or pity
in it.

*' I ask you once for all, is there any tie,
any relationship — no matter how slight —
between you ? "

None," she replied.

'rit is well," he said, dropping her arm,
and forced, in spite of himself, to believe
in her reiterated denial ; "for I swear to you,
that if I found you had deceived me in
that, I would put you away from me, and
never look on your false face again."

I know it," groaned the girl, seizing
one of her husband's hands in agony at
the mere thought of such a thing. *' But
oh Herbert, could you send me from you
when I love you so ? "

Love me so ! " he echoed, mimicking
her tone. " Your love was all directed to
my title, and surely you ought to be
content when the prize is your own."

She clung to his arm.

Oh Herbert, I own to you that I did
not love you at first — that I looked on you
as a means of freeing myself from those
dreadful women ; but, oh husband, believe
me when I tell you how bitterly I repent it,
now that I have learned to love you, and
know what a deep wrong I was inflicting on
you. Can you not forgive me, and love mea
little in return ? "

Get away," he said roughly. " I hate
scenes. Is this a melodrama to enable
you to appear before your quondam lover
with hollow eyes and tear-bedewed cheeks,
the injured, unloved wife ? ''

Even this brutal speech roused no fire
within her ; she grasped his hand.

'^ Oh Herbert, why are you so cold tome,
when I would give my life to earn
your love ? Oh, can it be that you hate
me?"

He looked steadily in her face for a

moment, a contemptuous smile on Hs
mouth.

No," he answered coldly ; '' I don't
hate you 1 despise you."

'' You — despise — me," she said slowly,
lingering over each syllable as though
determined to remember them ; and, giving
her husband one long look of love and
pain, she turned to the door to escape ere
the sobs that were rising in her throat
mastered her.

Stay a minute. I have not done with
you yet," he said, and pressed his hand to
his brow as though in thought.

She turned and waited his commands,
supporting herself against the carved bookcase.


In a moment he spoke again.

If these women really are nothing to
you, you will have no objection to stopping
their importunities at once and for good.
Come and write what I shall dictate."

Without a word she obeyed him, drew
paper and pens towards her, and waited till
he was ready.

Then she wrote the following :

"Madam,

^^As I do not recognise any existing
tie between us, I am much surprised by
your letter of appeal to me. I must decline
to give you any assistance, and beg you
not to make any future application.
"I am. Madam,

"Yours faithfully,

"Cecily Main waking."

She wrote, addressed, and sealed it as
one in a dream, dimly conscious that her
husband was directing her actions ; and
when it was finished, she raised her eyes
to his face, mutely asking his leave to go
away.

Something in the white misery of her

face, in the painful brightness of the
tearless eyes, softened him. With a feeling
of pity, utterly foreign to him, he stooped
over her and kissed her.

A burning blush spread over her cheek
and brow, and with a look of happiness
and gratitude that would have melted a
heart of stone she rose from her seat,
and clasping her arms around his neck,
returned his kiss with rapture.

Then the memory of his bitter words
flashed across her mind, and before he
had had time to repulse her, she had fled
from the room and sought her own, thereto
ponder over the painful scene she had
just gone through.

In the more serious thoughts that
occupied her mind, she forgot all about
the letter that she had written, never
dreaming of the dire consequences that
were to arise from it.

PLAYED OUT.

It was a lovely moonlight night, and
Sibthorp Manor was bathed in the
lustrous beams, looking more beautiful
than ever, the bright beams glancing on
tree and shrub silvering and softening
everything. On the rocks at the foot of
the cliff, the tide was rippling and plashing
with soft gentle murmurs, catching the
moon's rays on its broad bosom, and
reflecting it in a thousand tiny wavelets
that reared their heads proudly to let the
light touch them, and then sank laughing
to hide from it behind their playfellows.

Jack Frost was abroad with his sack
of diamonds, sprinkling them recklessly
from side to side.

"You and I together will make a nio-ht
that will force the old day to hide its face
with envy," he said to the moon, and set
to work early that he might not lose a
moment.

Ha, ha ! " he cried to the sea ; " the
land sparkles better than you do. Leap
and jump as you will, you can't look as
bright as this grass-plot does. Look at
every tiny blade gemmed with diamonds.
You can't equal that. Now keep your
temper, and don't lash yourself into a
fury, for you will only get frothy, and
look no better than bottled beer ; and then
you won't be able to glisten at all, and
the moon and I will laugh at you."

The sea dropped a big wave sullenly on
the shore, and it boomed and echoed among
the caves and rocks and when the foam

it brought had subsided, took Jack Frost's
advice, and lay quietly, only heaving gently
as before to reflect the moon's light.

How peaceful nature ! Suddenly a sound
disturbs it. Carriage wheels. Jack Frost
grinds his teeth with rage.

There now ! those stupid people will
go spoiling my work on the drive ! Why
could they not be in their beds at such
an hour, instead of interfering with me ? "

The carriage rolled by, leaving narrow
tracks and hoof-marks all along what
had been a smooth sheet of diamonds ;
but almost before it reached the door. Jack
Frost was busy repairing the damage, and
effacing the traces of earthly footsteps in
Fairyland.

]laud and Evelyn FitzAlleyn were returning
from a small musical-party.

Slowly they made their way through
the great hall, and up the broad oaken
staircase.

They ascended slowly and wearily, and
there was a look on each face that seemed
to denote something had happened.

Lyn's was sweeter and her smile falser
than usual ; while Maud's was set and
stern, and, when she spoke, her voice
coarser and louder than her wont.

The maid carrying their wraps, and
noting these signs with inward misgivings,
was rejoiced to hear Miss Fitz Alley n say :

I shall not want you to-night Whiting ;
you can go to bed at once."

Safe within their sanctum their tongues
were unloosed. Maud began :

'rit seems to me, Lyn, the game's up
here."

Nonsense ! " Lyn said, starting at the
forcible way Maud put it. " We shall be
all right here for some time longer I hope."

Not we ; they have found us out."

Found us out ! What do you mean ?
They are not likely to find us out. It was

VOL. ir. F

only a bit of petty spite on the part of the
Fells. It was rather too much in their own
house though."

Yes. I wish we had stayed at
home. Fancy a dinner and a musical
reunion combined ! Nobody but a fool
would have thought of such a mixture."

*the musical evening was merely to draw-all
the musical people together, to talk over
this club project."

"Lyn, we were fools to put up, when
we heard the members were to be balloted
for."

*' We should have been fools, had we
known that some kind friend would blackball
us both. I don't see how we could
avoid giving in our names, being the
acknowledged leaders of music here."

"There's one good thing; their society
won't be worth two pins without us," said
Maud viciously.

But you forget Maud, there is the

slight to be got over. Of course we cannot
go to the Fells' again, and all the singing
community will look shyly at us."

'that is exactly the point I was driving
at. We are done for here. They have
been turning the cold shoulder on us for
some time past. Ever since Cecie's
wedding there has been a something. I
know Lucy Fells heard Challoner exclaim
'Ada ! Miami ! ' and I believe she heard me
mutter the name he was to call us here.
Then that stuck-up madam, Miss Ains-worthy,
heard it, and goodness knows what
she would say. I think it's a pity we did
not start school-keeping, if it gives one
such a high position, and enables one to be
Hail fellow, well met ! ' with all the
swells about, and not to find the guardians
of an old pupil fit even to speak to."

Never mind about that woman ; what's
to be done ? "

I can't think. I was totally uni



F

prepared for this blow. The only thing
that seems clear to me is that we must
move."

Move ! Where and how ? As you
know, we have no money ; and now Cecie
is married we've so little hold on Sir
Hugh."

Oh, the money will be all right enough.
Cecie will send some ; I have written to ask
her. We will move on what she sends and
what I have put by lately ; and till the
allowance is due again we must be careful.
Why, here is a letter from Cecie," turning
to a side-table ; " I overlooked it in the
worry of these Fells. It has just come at
the most opportune moment."

Tearing it open, she glanced through it.
Lyn, look here ! Read this ! Can
it be possible ? Lyn, am I sober ? " and
she handed it to her sister with horror-struck
gaze.

Lyn took the letter and read it

slowly through, as though it were impossible
to realise it ; then she looked
up at her sister with a face that was
haggard and drawn.

*' This is blow on blow " was all she
said.

The words seemed to rouse Maud from
her lethargy.

"Yes," she said viciously, biting her
lips with her small white teeth. "Yes,
as you say, it is blow on blow ; both
from the most unexpected quarters. One
we cannot retaliate ; the other we can,
and will. Am I to submit to a blow
from her without returning it ? Am I
to sit down quietly under an insult from
my own child ? "

But she does not know that. Remember
she was always brought up to
believe she was no relation to us."

Does she not know ? Well then,
she shall very soon be disabused of hep

ignorance. As Lady Mainwaring, she is
too grand to recognise us ; we are far
too common to be taken any notice of
by so grand a personage as lie has
suddenly become. But I will humble
her pride for her, and what I cannot
gain by fair means I will extort by
foul."

"I don't understand what you mean.
I believe you have gone mad. What's
the use of drivelling like that, when
there are much more serious matters to
be faced and put right ? " and Lyn
gazed contemptuously at her sister's
flaming cheeks and flashing vindictive
eyes.

Of course you don't understand,
because you won't. I am facing the
difficulties, and smoothing away all our
troubles in discovering a Golconda. Yes,
a perfect mine of wealth. Can't you

see she is in our power ? Can't you
see we can force her to satisfy our
demands, whatever they may be ? What
do you think prompted her to write
this letter ? Why, fear of her husband.
She wants to sever all connection with
us, and thinks this is the best way todo
it. When she married Sir Herbert,
her grand baronet, she told him nothing
about the past. Cecie is no fool, and
has a memory, so it is useless pretending
the past is a blank to her. She
lied to him about her antecedents, well
knowing his pride was too great to mate
with her if he knew all. I shall write
to her at once, and quietly state the
whole truth''

'^ The whole ?" gasped Lyn.

*' Of course not. The whole as far as
it regards herself; and having put her
in possession of the facts of the case.

threaten to inform her husband unless
she sends me money. That will bring a
cheque as fast as the mail will carry it."

There was silence for a short while,
and then Lyn, who in her young
days had always been against her, who
had christened her the '' Incubus," and
wished a thousand times that she were
dead or out of the way, suddenly
pleaded for hei.

Spare her Maud. You will mar
her whole life if you do this thing. Be
merciful to her, poor girl ; and if she
can be happy with that brute of a man,
let her be so."

Spare her ! " Maud cried, in fury.
"Yes, spare her in her wealth, to sacrifice
us in our poverty. No ; this very night
the letter shall be written," and seizing
writing materials, she wrote shortly and
hastily these fatal words :

*' Cecily,

You questioned the tie between
us when I asked you for money, as
from friend to friend. I defy you to
deny, or disregard it now, when I
demand assistance from a child to her
mother.

If you still hesitate, I shall make
it my business to inform your husband
on some of the facts in the past of
both of us — notably at what an early
age your talent for acting was not
only cultivated but of excellent use ; and
thus prepare him, in a slight measure,
for the domestic tragedy which is likely
to ensue on his looking up the history
of your relatives, the Wolvermeres.

'' I conclude by signing myself for the
first, and I hope the last time,

Your affectionate Mother,

"Maud FitzAlleyn.

'' Pes. — I trust this letter will not drive
you to your old recourse — eau-de-cologne.
I wonder does your husband know you
were expelled from Miss Ainsworthy's for
indulging too frequently in that fragrant
pick-me-up."

"That will do for her ladyship, I
should think," Miss FitzAlleyn commented,
reading it over to Lyn ere sealing it.

'' There is no doubt it will do for her,"
Lyn answered. 'will you not reflect ere
you send away a letter which is to blight
the happiness of your own child ? "

"And how much like my own child she
has been to me ! Reflect? No. For
fear that you should badger me till I alter
it, I will send it off at once."

Singing the bell violently, Miss Fits
bade the shivering half clothed
servant who answered it, send round for
the groom at once to saddle the fleetest

horse and be round at the house in ten
minutes.

"I have a letter that must catch the
night mail. He must ride with it to
Penshurst."

Poor Jack Frost was to have no time
allowed him to rest from his labours, and
admire his handiwork. Down the drive
sped a mounted man, the hoofs of his
horse driving the toiler's dainty handiwork
far and wide, and making such
deep furrows that it was quite impossible
to eradicate them, and poor Jack had to
leave his work uncompleted and retire
grumbling, as over the edge of the horizon
peeped the sun, sending a sleepy arm
across the sea, to know what they had
all been doing with themselves while he
had been sleeping in his ocean bed.

A few little birds — those courageous
enough to stay and brave the wintry
weather — lifted their heads from under

their downy wings, shook their soft feathers
into order, and hopping on to a fresh
twiof beo^an to tell the sun all about it ;
at which the sea got cross, and sending up
two or three big waves to drown their
little voices, told the sun never to heed
them, as they had been asleep all the
night through, and forthwith told his
story of Jack Frost's frolics.

AN ORDEAL.

From darkness to light ; from Purgatory
to Paradise; from Maud Fitz Alley n to
Mabel Ains worthy ; to Miss Ains worthy,
who, since Cecie's wedding, had been pursuing
her way in much her usual peaceful
fashion.

She was kind to her pupils, lively
amongst her friends, clever and busy with
her pen — to outward seeming the same
as ever ; but in her heart there was a
great change. Everything was the same
even to her, but with a thick gray veil over
it that hid all the brightness, and made
life sad and weary.

Mabel had found lier treasure only to
have it ruthlessly torn from her — her heart
had become human only to be wounded
past healing. At her age, with her powers
of loving, she had learned the bitter lesson
of first love ; and it had done for her, as for
so many of her younger, more trusting, and
less experienced sisters — taken all life's sunshine
away and left her blank and desolate*

She was a true woman ; she had made
an idol and worshipped it ; and when she
found her god but clay, she but loved it
the better for its defects. She told herself
daily and hourly that Hugh Stapylton was
false, that he was not one whit better than
Mr. Challoner ; and yet she could not
tear the one from the dearest place in
her heart, while she detested the other
with the passion of a woman who feels
herself insulted beyond forgiveness.

Women are "kittle cattle." Never was a
truer aphorism.

She liacl heard nothing of Sir Hugh since
the wedding, beyond a stray word or two
dropped by Mr. Challoner in his frequent
visits.

Never a week passed without the Hon.
Richard presenting himself at her door,
sometimes with his wife, sometimes with
Louise, but more often alone. He would
come ; he utterly disregarded the coldness
with which Mabel would receive him, took
no notice of the persistent way she refused
to go to theatre, concert, or opera with
him, but went on pressing invitations on
her, as though he felt sure she must
yield.

Any other man would have given up the
pursuit, and had too much amour pvopre
to thrust himself into a house where he was
so evidently unwelcome; but Challoner either
did not, or would not see this, and continued
his visits.

He had never alluded to his first offence,

and Mabel had half begun to think
he had forgotten all about the foolish
idea.

It was a cold damp afternoon about a
fortnight before Miss FitzAlleyn had written,
her first letter to Cecie.

Mabel was seated at her writing-table,
busy with an essay which was to appear in.
the next week's " Scrutator," when her neat
maid came in with a telegram.

'^ Put it down," she said carelessly, too
engrossed in her work to care to be
interrupted.

The maid obeyed, but lingered a moment
about the room. To her mind a telegram
meant something of importance, and she
was half vexed with her mistress for taking
it so very calmly.

She had hardly reached her own domain
however, before the bell rang violently ;
and hastening up, she found her mistress,
with a face white as death, holding on to a

chair for support, and reading the telegram
over and over again.

''Lucy/' she cried hurriedly, "take my
compliments to Mrs. Eltham, and tell her I
am called away to see a very dear friend
who is ill, dying ; " and her voice broke at
the word. *' Tell her, I trust she will look
to everything in my absence ; and then come
back as quickly as you can to dress me.
Send Martin for a cab while Wilson gets
ready to come with me."

Ten more minutes, and she was driving
rapidly towards King's Cross, holding the
telegram in her hand, and reading it over
as thrush the short sentences were not
burnt into her brain in letters of fire.

'' Dr. Sharp, To Miss Ainsworthy.

Railway Hotel,
Restrain,

'sir Hugh Stapylton has met with an
accident hunting. He has asked for you.
Come at once if you wish to see him alive."

VOL. II. G

All was forgiven, all forgotten, at the
thought of the man she still so fondly loved
lying ill — dying, the telegram said. He
must have asked for her, or else this doctor
would never have known whom to telegraph
for. He loved her still and, forgetting
everything but that Hugh was ill, she bade
the cabman hasten, and had the good luck
to be just in time for the train to Waltham.
How wearily the time passed — every
second seemed an hour — until at last the
welcome cry of '' Steam ! St 'am 1 " reached
her ears, and alighting almost before the
train had stopped, she came face to face
with Richard Challoner.

You here ! " she cried in astonishment.
Yes," he answered calmly ; " I came to
meet you''

'^ Then you have seen him. How is he ? "
'' Too ill to recognise you yet, I fear."
I will wait. I have brought my maid
with me."

*' Your maid ! The devil you have 1 "
and his face expressed the most utter perplexity.
Mabel had not noticed his exclamation,
but watched him with some
impatience as he stood in his favourite
attitude when puzzled, with one hand
behind him and the thumb-nail of the
other between his teeth. " What is done
must be done quickly," he muttered ; and
then turning to Mabel, said aloud,

If you will permit me, Miss Ains-worthy,
I will send your maid round ina
cab ; for ourselves there is a short cut
across a field, that will bring us to the inn
a long while first."

'' Pray, pray make haste, Mr. Challoner.
I entreat you to lose no time."

With hasty strides he reached the station
door, and beckoning the only cabman who
was waiting, said :

Look here my good man, would you
like to earn a couple of sovereigns ? "

G 2

*' Would I ? You're joking me."

'' No ; I'm in sober earnest. I've a job
I want done well ; if you will do it, here
are the sovereigns."

"I'm your man, sir."

*' Well then, I shall bring a young
woman out and put her in the cab.

Drive her to A Abbey, which, as

you know, is a good fifteen miles off.
If her mistress has not arrived, bring her
back in time for the last train. In any
case, you are neither to ask nor answer
any questions."

"Ay, sir ; I understand," said the man,
pocketing the sovereigns and mounting his
box.

Richard Challoner re-entered the station
and in a minute returned with the maid,
whom he saw safely deposited in the cab ;
then, fetching Mabel, the two wended
their way on foot to the hotel. Arrived

there, Miss Ainsworthy was shown into a
nicely-furnished room.

'will you have dinner up now, sir*'
asked the man.

Mr. Challoner looked vexed ; but ere he
could speak, Mabel cried :

No ; I will see the invalid gentleman
first."

The invalid gentleman, ma'am ? " said
the waiter, astonished.

Yes, yes ; all right. FU take the lady,"
said Challoner ; and following the man to
the door, closed and — to Mabel's infinite
alarm — locked it, and put the key in his
pocket.

Mr. Challoner what does this mean ? "
Mabel cried, starting to her feet.

He paused before answering, and quietly
taking ofi" his gloves and overcoat, flung
them on a chair; then sitting down by the
fire, spoke.

'' Mean, my dear Mabel ? Why, that I
love you better than ever."

Pshaw Mr. Challoner, it is folly to
talk like this when a life is hanging in the
balances

'^ My dear girl," he said, calmly crossing
his feet, "there is no life hanging in the
balance, that I know of. I must be more
explicit, and tell you that I have attained
my hopes and my revenge by one simple
exertion of my diplomatic brain. Your
friend Sir Hugh, to the best of my belief,,
is at this moment enjoying excellent
health,"

'what can this be?" cried Mabel.
What did that telegram mean ? "

Nothing," said Challoner, with a cynical
smile.

"And am I to understand " Mabel

began, flushing crimson.

That you are in my power ? Certainly
my haughty Mabel, you are. You

scorned and defied me once ; and yet here
you are, come like an obedient child at
my bidding."

"And perhaps, now that your absurd
farce is played out, you will allow me to
return ?"

Nay, that I never will," he cried. *' You
know how I love you, Mabel, and I swear
to keep you here till you learn to love mein
return."

You ! " she cried, recoiling from him,
her face white with deadly passion.

Yes, me. I'm not such an objectionable
fellow, am I ? "

Faugh ! You are more hateful to me
than Satan himself would be''

You'll get over that in time," he said
coolly. He felt himself so thoroughly
master of the situation, that he did not
trouble to woo; indeed, she was too angry
for him to dare attempt it.

In time ! You will not detain me ? "

Mr. Challoner you dare not."
*' Mabel I have made up my mind ; and
I never swerve from a determination.
You'll have to remain. Why not stay
with a good grace ? Do, darling ! " And
he took her hand.

Mabel snatched it away, and clenching
it, cried between her teeth,

*' Oh God ! that you should so insult
me!"

You weill not refuse me ? "
I will— I do ! " she cried hotly.
Oh Mabel ! can you not love me ? "
Love ! I hate — I abhor you."
Not if your kindness to me could bring
happiness to someone you love ? "
I fail to see your meaning."
"Supposing I knew Hugh Stapylton's
secret ? Supposing I could remove his sorrow
? Supposing I could prove that all
his life he had been imposed upon?"

"Could you?"

If you loved me."

On your honour ? "

On my honour as a gentleman, I have
proof — letters in that coat," pointing to
the overcoat, *' that can establish the fact."

Mabel was silent. She could not, would
not, sacrifice herself for the man she loved,

and yet She walked to the window

in great agitation.

Suddenly her eyes lighted, a smile overspread
her face. The room was on the
ground-floor, the window a French one,
and at the end of the trim well-kept
garden she saw a gate leading straight
into the station. If only she could get
the letters and escape.

She turned to Kichard Challoner and
said:

Give me time to think."

He started up in rapture, and came
towards her, a bright light in his eyes.

'' Oh Mabel ; can it be ? "

I can't tell what it may be yet. I am
hungry, go and order dinner," she said,
with a faint attempt at coquetry.

He caught her in his arms, and pressed
hot kisses on her now impassive face.

*' My darling, how happy I am," he cried.

Her breast heaving with rage, her face
pale as death, she yet gently withdrew
herself from his embrace, and said softly,
so as to hide her quivering voice : '^ I
have given you no answer yet Dick. Go
and order dinner."

I will go," he said reluctantly.

Mabel mistook his backward glance for
one of distrust, and with a shudder
stretched out her hands to him, and putting
up her cold white lips kissed his
cheek.

No, no," she gasped, as he would have
embraced her again. "Dinner; I am
hungry."

Never doubting her, Challoner left the
room, never even attempting to relock the
door.

With one spring Mabel locked the door,
caught up the coat with breathless haste;
she emptied the pockets of the papers they
contained, and never looking to see if
they were the right ones thrust them into
her own jacket-pockets, and almost before
Challoner had crossed the hall was through
the window and flying for her life down
the lawn into the station.
A train was in.

To London, ma am ? " cried the porter.
"Yes, yes."

"Jump in then — Fll get your ticket."
In a moment he was back ; the engine gave
a shriek, and they were off.

Just as the train glided from the platform
Mabel caught sight of Kichard Challoner
dashing into the station, his face livid with
rage.

Gone ! " was Kichard's comment ; '* but
I can yet be revenged." And hastening
to the telegraph-office he dictated the
following :

o

Richard Challoner, To Sir Hugh Stapylton.

Waltham,

Sorry can't dine with you tomorrow,

as Mabel A is here. This between

ourselves."

There," he said, as he turned away, *' if
he ever speaks to her again after that he
is not the man I take him for. Your little
game is spoilt, my fair Mabel, despite the
possession of those letters."

When Mabel recovered from the state
of nervous excitement into which the last
few minutes had thrown her, she took the
papers from her pockets and began to examine
them. At last she came to some

five or six letters carefully put together in
the same envelope.

These were evidently the right ones, and
with eager haste she began scanning them —
scanning them at first, but turning afterwards
to read them with the greatest care
and attention.

Having perused them all, she buried
her face in her hands, and remained some
minutes in deep thought ; and then a
light broke over her face, and she murmured
:

Hugh dear, I shall be the one to free
you from your misery."

Carefully refolding them, she fastened
them into the bosom of her dress, fearing
lest any evil chance should cause her to
lose the key which was to unlock Sir
Hugh's fetters.

When she reached her own house she
went straight to her cosy study, and without
waiting to remove her bonnet seated

herself at lier writing-table, and with
trembling hands and flushed cheeks wrote :

'wednesday, 6.30 p.m."

Then she paused. " He'll think me mad
to write thus ! " and she took another
sheet and again wrote the same.

How stupid I am," she said, and began
to tear the third letter up. Something
stayed her.

'* I feel as though I must put the hour,"
she said. " I will do it," and taking
another sheet she wrote the words that
afterwards she thanked heaven for having
guided her to write.

"35, Square, S.W.,

Wednesday, November 15th, 6.30 p.m.

"Dear Sie Hugh,

"Pray come to me at once; I have
something of great importance to tell you —

something which, I trust, will restore your
happiness.

Yours with all sincerity,

'mabel Ainsworthy."

Having endorsed this " Important — to be
forwarded," and despatched it by hand to
Sir Hugh's club, Mabel waited.

Her messenger returned with the intelligence
that Sir Hugh was expected
momentarily, but that the letter should
be forwarded if he did not come before
night.

The evening passed, but Sir Hugh did
not call ; the next day, and the next, until
a week had gone by; then Mabel got
anxious, and sent her servant again to the
club to make inquiries. He was told Sir
Hugh had not called for the last few days.
The man, who had his wits about him,
further inquired if the letter had been

forwarded, and after a brief search, the
waiter returned with the letter and many
apologies for the neglect, and gave Sir
Hugh's address.

Miss Ainsworthy's servant, with all good
sense, proceeded at once to the given
direction to deliver the letter himself; but
on reaching the chambers, he was informed
that Sir Hugh had gone abroad the Wednesday
before, and left no address; as soon
as they heard they would forward the
letter with several others they had to
send.

Sad news this to take back to his poor
mistress. Unaccountable news she thought
it. Why should he have gone away that
very night without saying a word to
anyone ?

Mabel grieved silently and long over it,
grieved for him that he must so much
longer have to bear his trouble, and for

herself that she could not comfort him, and
in that comforting, gain for herself the
happiness which she now knew had been
wanting to make her life complete.

VOL. II.

THE Bitterness OF DEATH.

Sir Hugh Stapylton was lounging away
the afternoon in his cosy rooms.

It was raw and foggy without, and he
had nowhere especial to go but to his club,
and no one especially to see when he got
there, so he decided he should be better off
to stay where he was.

He had not made his mark at college as a
young man. He had read with energy
when amongst others who were studying,
and despite his handsome face and fortune,
had been known more as a readings man
than a lounger ; but still he had left college

without leaving any name behind him,
thereby greatly disappointing his many
admirers and followers.

When he left college, the blight that fell
on his life drew him more than ever away
from his fellows ; and for years he was
either travelling, or shut up away from
everyone, reading up some one subject,
studying some dead language, anything to
pass the time and give him oblivion.

All at once he took a fancy to return to
town and read there.

He had always been a favourite with the
men of his set, and though all had an idea
of some misfortune which had fallen on
him, no one knew to a certainty what it
was ; and whenever he was unearthed by
anyone of his set, it was a signal for the
others to gather round and give "poor
Hugh" a good time.

When he finally decided to live in
London — after the denouement about

H 2

Cecie — he was determined not to seek out
any of his old friends ; and as he had been
absent about ^yq years, he had no fear of
being recognised.

He was wrong. He had not been established
in his chambers a week, before
ascending the stairs one afternoon he met
an old college chum. Sir Hugh hoped to
escape unnoticed, but hoped in vain, and
from that time his old friends gradually
drew him from his shell, and into their own
circle.

One took him home to see his wife ;
another his mother and sisters. He found
it impossible to resist these kindly advances,
and gradually drifted into the calm happy
sea of friendship.

But as his friends grew more numerous,
his studies decreased ; and he was now
constantly reminded by the familiar faces
of his books, lying unopened on the table

or in the shelves, that he had neglected his
old friends for his new ones.

Sudden fits of industry and remorse
would overtake him on dull or unoccupied
days like the present, and he would return
to some of the old books that had been
such good friends to him in the early days
of his sorrow.

In one of these moods this afternoon, he
had chosen a comfortable chair, a good
cigar, an old and tried holder, and searching
for a book to interest him, he settled
himself beside the fire, devoutly hoping not
to be disturbed.

A couple of hours passed. It was just
striking six, when the door opened, and a
burly bronzed man came striding towards
him.

By Jove Meltham ! Where in the
world have you sprung from ? " asked Sir
Hugh. '' Find yourself a chair man, and

touch the bell ; we will have a brew that will
do both body and soul good this raw day.
Take a baccy; you'll find lights and a
holder on that table."

Now then," as his friend seated himself,
tell me your news."

"Well Stapylton, I'll begin by telling
you I've only half-an-hour to stay."

*what, off again?"

*' Yes, I hate these English winters, and
if I wait for the fogs to settle on my chest
I am a dead man ; so I am off on a tour
this very day. I mean to cruise through
the Mediterranean, Need Sea, have a look at
India, perhaps on to Japan, and home again
in May."

** Very jolly too. You make me wish I
was going to give the Mona another trial."

I wish you were. That's the bother of
it ; I've no one going with me. I asked
Sorrel, his mother's dying; Delamere's
engaged. All my hopes are centred on

Westmacott and Merton, who have half-promised
to join me at Nice. I wanted to
ask you, but Sorrel said he thought it
would be impossible to get you away from
town, and hinted at petticoats. I suppose
soon I shall have to congratulate some girl
on securing so good a fellow, and commiserate
myself on the loss of a friend."

I wish to heaven you could ! "

"Well, if she can't make up her mind,
a little absence is a capital thing ; come
with me for a time."

You don't understand Meltham ; she is
the one woman in the world," and Sir
Hugh turned away, and puffed moodily
at his cigar.

Meltham was silent. He had a faint
recollection of something unfortunate happening
to Stapylton, but what in the
world it was, he could not recollect ; so
he only said, after a pause :

Well, of course you won't come ? "

"No, it's quite impossible. IVe given
up knocking about, and settled quietly
down here. I shan't care to travel anymore."


Then the talk drifted into other channels.
Meltham was just rising to take his leave,
when Sir Hugh's man brought in a
telegram.

I wonder who the deuce it is from,"
he commented as he opened it.

Meltham, busied in lighting a cigar,
did not notice the agonised expression that
crossed his friend's face, as he read the
message.

Again and again Sir Hugh read it
through, as though he could not grasp
its contents. He stared vacantly at the
paper before him, and passed his hand
through his hair, with the air of a man
who wishes to realise that he really lives,
and has his senses.

He was dreaming. It could not be true.

Then his eye fell on Meltham, and he felt
that it was a cruel reality.

Slowly he drooped his head on his hands,
clenching them on the telegram in an agony
that was too deep for words ; biting his
lips till they bled, to crush back the
anguished groan that rose to them.

In that moment when he read that she,
who was to him the embodiment of
goodness and purity, was but like other
women, he longed for death ; he did not
care to live ; he was like a lost soul
sufferings the torments of hell.

There was but a few seconds before
Meltham turned and noticed him ; but
he lived a lifetime in them.

He had been a man in the prime of
his life before he read the telegram ; but
he looked old and broken when Meltham
looked at him. Guessing from his attitude
that something was wrong, he went to
him, and said in kindly tones :

No bad news I hope, old fellow ? "

Bad news ! " Sir Hugh said, repeating
the words mechanically, and as he spoke
raising his haggard face and bloodshot eyes.

'' Good God ! " Meltham cried, starting
back-hugh old man, rouse yourself.
Here, take this," and he reached some
brandy, and with gentle force compelled
him to drink it. Though a little revived
his eyes still wore that terrifying stare.
Meltham tended him with a wondrous
care, and was at last rewarded by hearing
him draw a long breath.

"Old friend, old friend, what can I
do for you ? " he asked. He had not
seen much illness, and he thought that
Sir Hugh was dying. '' What is it that
troubles you so ? "

"Troubles me," Sir Hugh echoed, and
with a low moan he buried his face in
his hands, his whole frame shaken with
deep sobs.

How terrible it is to see a man weep !
to see a strong chest torn with sobs of
agony ; to see the drawn face, the closed
eyes, through which hardly a tear comes
to relieve their burning ; every line in
face and form expressing the storm of
pain that rages within. What woman's
sorrow can compare with it ! The pain
that vents itself in a sudden gush of tears,
is but a babbling brook to a mighty
rushing river.

When men feel sorrow it crushes them
utterly for the time, and then they rise
up and throw it off; with women it is
so different. They have so few things to
divert their thoughts from it. The trivialities
of a woman's life are utterly insufficient
to enable her to forget. She carries
the heavy load of pain about with her
daily and hourly. It rises with her,
follows her like her shadow through all
the waking hours, and then, when night

comes and she hopes for relief, the phantom
follows her in dreams, till she wakes
shuddering and frightened, and, for a
moment, thinks it has all been a dream,
and rejoices she is awake, when an icy-hand
fixes on her heart. She starts with
the sudden agony, and realises once more
that this is no dream, but a stern bitter
reality.

Oh the pain of that sudden heart-grip !
Oh the agony of another day to face and
live through ! Such sorrow as this cannot
weep ; tears can bring no relief to
such a bowed heart as this. Does such
pain bring one nearer to the hour of
release ? How gladly would death be
welcomed to give relief from such an
agony of pain. No hereafter can be
more terrible than the awful present — that
present which is so overwhelming that
there seems no beyond. The future is
desolate ; life stretches before one an

arid plain — no green spots, no pleasant
brooks to allay the heart's parching thirst !
All is bleak, and bare, and desolation
walks abroad in the noonday, shutting out
the light of the sun with his fell presence.

Some say at times like these, why look
on things in so morbid a light ? why not
take up your life and do the best you
can with it, and look on the bright side ?
But at the supreme moment, when the
blow has fallen and every nerve and fibre
is quivering under it, there is no bright
side. Life may be faceted like a crystal,
and yet it will give forth no brightness ;
light is dead.

Grief like this must shorten the span
of suffering years allotted to us. It
must — a grief that has to be borne
alone, and away from all others ; a grief
that must be hidden from all, especially
from the one who has caused it, lest some
tremor in the voice, some droop in the

aching eyes, may give tlieni a glance into
the mirror in which the heart's workings
are reflected.

Oh the pain of it — the pain of it !
Bearing it with smiling lips and light
words, never for one instant daring to let
it be free, lest others should see it in
your face. Battling it down and forcing
it away, even when you are alone with
it, till it settles in a cruel pain at
the heart, which you long for death to
remove.

Oh why is life so bitter? Are there
some of us to whom happiness will ever
be but an empty phrase ? who will fancy
it within their grasp, and stretch out
aching arms towards it, to find they have
been trying to catch a sunbeam, to clasp a
rainbow.

Life is long, and joy is fleeting. Oh
hope ! oh joy ! shall I never make you
mine ?

But to return to Sir Hugh. Meltham
stood beside him irresolute. He could
not tell what to do ; he was unwilling
to be left alone with him, and still more
unwilling to call the man in, and let
him see his master thus. He took some
brandy himself, and stood with his hand
laid gently on his friend's shoulder,
waiting.

By-and-by Sir Hugh rose, and calming
himself with a mighty effort, grasped his
friend's hand.

'* Dear old fellow " he said, and his voice
sounded strange and far away, "you said
you had no one going with you, will you
let me come ? ''

Meltham answered huskily. "Do, I'll
wait a day or two if you like."

"No, no," Sir Hugh said, beginning to
pace the room excitedly, " I want to be off
at once, I'll come with you now."

But your traps."

''I can take a few things now, and
Mason can bring the rest by train and
join us at Dover."

Singing, lie gave all the necessary
instructions to his valet, asked for his hat
and gloves, and a minute later they were
in the street. Sir Hugh gave a start ashe
found the telegram still crushed in his
hand; he wavered a moment, whether he
should tear it up and throw it away, then
he folded it, and placed it carefully in
his pocketbook.

On what a frail thread our happiness
hangs ! Sir Hugh was deliberately
destroying his.

FLIGHT.

Lady Mainwaring was particularly fond
of riding. It had always been her favourite
mode of exercise, and now, when she found
herself mistress of a capital stud, never
a day passed without seeing her in the
saddle.

She had always had a penchant too for
hunting, but this had been rigorously
snubbed by Miss FitzAUeyn, who, looking
upon her as a saleable article, did not wish
her beauty spoiled before she was disposed
of. Now however, her husband cared very
little either for her beauty or her neck, so

VOL. II. I

she was free to hunt as often as she pleased.
Sometimes Sir Herbert would accompany
her. Though he did not care for her, he
was quite alive to the fact that she looked
remarkably well on horseback, and he
enjoyed the sensation her appearance in
the field created.

Two mornings after the writing of the
letter to the FitzAUeyns, there was a meet
in the neighbourhood of the Hall.

Cecie was bent on going, and asked her
husband to take her. Something: had
occurred to ruffle his temper, and he declined
to go, asking Geoffrey to take care
of his wife instead.

Louise Challoner would not hunt, so
Darrell was to drive her to the throw-off,
and he looked forward with some pleasure
to the idea of having her in his care till
Cecie returned.

Lady Mainwaring was in high spirits ;
once fairly out of the house, and through

the lodge gates, she could not keep them
down, but laughed and chatted to Geoffrey
so brightly that he began to hope things
were happier for her.

She was enjoying the whole thing immensely.
The soft gray mist that lay over
everything seemed to her as though she
were in Fairyland, and this gauzy veil had
been drawn over the earth by some kindly
fairy, who would presently wave her wand,
and — Hey ! Presto ! — it would roll away,
and reveal a scene of untold beauty.
Then her thoughts came down from the
land of visions, and she wondered what sort
of a run they would have. Was not Geoffrey
sure it would be a good run ? She was ; she
felt as though she were going to enjoy herself
to the full, only she wished Herbert
were but there, and then her every thought
would be gratified.

*' I never felt so content in my life,"
she said ; *• I am thoroughly happy this

I 2

morning." And long afterwards Geoffrey
remembered her words.

Everything went merrily as a marriage-bell.
The hounds were put into covert,
soon found, and, after rattling their fox
about for some time, forced him into the
open, and the scent being good, the field
was soon enjoying what afterwards proved
to be one of the best runs of the
season.

Cecie was a fearless rider. Sitting well
down in her saddle, and getting her horse
well in hand, she was away with the first
flight ; and, taking her fences like a bird,
maintained her forward position during the
whole of the run, and if in the excitement
she thought at all, it was but to revel in
the exhilaration of the moment.

She was one of the few in at the death ;
and then came the first pang that had
crossed her heart since she woke — her
husband was not by her to share her

pride when lie was presented with the
brush.

'san out-and-out good run," was the
universal opinion as the rest of the straggled
field came up.

The one wild excitement over, the keen
ones — and Cecie was one of the number —
were impatient for another, and waited
anxiously while the hounds were thrown into
try an adjoining covert.

But if the riders had no consideration
for their horses Dame Fortune had, and by
the turn of her wheel ordained that the
covert should be drawn blank.

A whimper or two was heard from young
inexperienced hounds, but the sages of the
pack never lifted their voices, and reynard
not being at home the huntsman got his
hounds together, and those who had waited,
agreeing with the master that the good
run they had had was sufficient for one
day, gradually the field dropped ofi", and

Cecie reluctantly turned her horse's head
towards home; Geoffrey seeing her to the
Hall, and then riding away on some business.

She reached home about three, and as she
crossed the threshold inquired for the guests
and her husband.

Miss Challoner and Mr. D'Eyncourt are
out walking, my lady," the butler replied ;
but Sir Herbert has gone out alone. He
left word that he would return at six, and
wanted particularly to see you when he
returned, my lady."

Cecie walked through the hall, wondering
what he could possibly want with her, and
on up the stairs to her own room. As
she passed her husband's dressing-room
something prompted her to look in. A
letter was lying on the floor, and beside it
Sir Herbert's pencil case. He had evidently
dropped them.

Careless boy ! " she exclaimed, and went
forward to pick them up.

The letter was addressed to herself, and
had been opened. A feeling of deadly fear
came over her as she looked at it and
recognised the writing. Slowly she took
the letter from its envelope, and read it.

'* You questioned the tie between us when
I asked you for money as from friend to
friend. Now, I demand assistance from a
child to her mother.

*' I shall make it my business to

inform your husband — at what an early age
your talent for acting was cultivated. It
will in some measure prepare him for the
domestic tragedy which is likely to ensue
on his looking up the history of your
relatives, the Wolvermeres."

Cecie felt stunned as she realised that her
husband had read this too, and knew all.
A new spirit seemed to possess her ; she
felt eager to fly from him. Much as she

loved him, she dared not face Hm ; and as
she stood there with the letter clasped in
her hands, she began turning over in her
mind the means of escape.

She must be prompt ; Herbert would be
back at six, and then he would tax her with
her falsity and duplicity. If she went at
all, she must go before he returned. Should
she face him? Should she throw herself
on his mercy, and ask him to forgive
her?

It was a wild thought, but for a moment
it seemed the best course to pursue. Then
crowding back on her memory came the
words he had used when that first letter
came :

I swear to you, that if I found you had
deceived me about your relationship with
those women, I would put you away from
me, and never look on your false face
again."

Herbert would never forgive her. If she

waited till lie returned, it would only be
putting off the hour of her being thrust out
of his home and presence. How much
better to go away before she had seen
him and heard the hard things he was sure
to say. Her memories of him would be so
much sweeter.

Her decision was made : she would go.
Passing on to her own room, she rang and
ordered the carriage to be brought round
at once.

Marie, returning to dress her mistress,
and entering without being observed, found
her busily packing a bag. The woman was
faithful and honest, and loved her young
mistress devotedly. She had noticed Sir
Herbert's neglect, and seeing the agitation
on her lady's face, and the amateur packing
that was going on, she, with all a Frenchwoman's
keenness, connected the two ideas,
and instantly surmised that her ladyship
was going to run away.

With a sob, she fell on her knees before
her.

'' Oh miladi, do not leave me ; T will be
quiet, discreet, anything you wish, only
take me with you."

Lady Mainwaring was disconcerted,
though the woman's honest pleading
touched her ; she had been so anxious that
no one should know of her intentions. It
was no use attempting to deny what was
so palpably a fact, so she only said
kindly :

'*No, Marie, I cannot take you; I am
going away for ever, and should not want
you."

Not want me ! Mais miladi, how will
you get your coifiure arranged ? who will
robe you ? Miladi must have someone to
dress her."

"No Marie, indeed. I shall be very
poor, and perhaps have to work for
myself."

Work ! you, miladi ? Marie will come
and work for you," and she urged her plea
so earnestly that at last Cecie gave in,
and gave her the desired permission ; and
then took her into her council as to how
she could best get away.

Marie hit upon a capital plan.

'' You miladi, will take your money and
jewels with you at once, and drive to Star's
the milliner at Staveley. You should
dismiss the carriage there to call for you
again at six. As soon as you can manage,
you will go down to the station and get the
5.30 express. I will pack all the dresses,
linen, and things I think you are likely
to want, and take them all to my room.
Then I will say to the under-gardener : I
have a sweetheart to whom I am fiancee ;
I cannot bear to part with miladi, and I
must go to my sweetheart, so I have made
up my mind to go my ways before she
returns. Will you take my boxes to the

station, so that no one sees — to the Delving
Station, which is but half-a-mile from here ?
Take the cart, and cover the boxes with
straw to conceal them ; and while you do
that, I will to the servants' hall, and tell
them the fortunes I promised to. Miladi
will get in at Staveley. The next station is
Delving. Miladi will see Marie there, but she
will not notice her till London is reached ;
and then, all will be well."

Cecie thought the plan a good one, and
in her anxiety and trouble could not think
of a better one; so bidding Marie hasten
her preparations, she dressed hurriedly, and
collected all her jewels into a dressing-bag.
Those secured, she thought of ways and
means, and taking out her purse, found
to her horror she had not five pounds
in it.

What could she do ? She paused a few
minutes, and then remembered that her
husband had had a large sum paid him late

the day before, and had locked it in his
escritoire in the library. There was just
the chance that he had not yet taken it to
the bank.

She hurried down the stairs in terror lest
her husband or her guests should meet her,
and, locking the library door, went to the
writing-table. The drawers were locked ;
in her excitement she had never realised
that such would of course, be the case ;
but she did not let it be an obstacle. A
dagger, which Sir Herbert used as a paperknife,
was lying on the table. In an instant
she had it in the drawer, forcing it open.
Two minutes of uncertainty, and then it
yielded with a crash.

A quantity of notes and gold lay before
her. Without waiting to count the money
she crammed it into her bag, and seeing the
carriage pass the window, unlocked the
door, and walked out of the house with a
firm step — though her heart felt breaking

with the double crime she was committing
robbing her husband, and then leaving
him.

"The Staveley Bank," she said to the
footman, as he closed the carriage-door.

Half-an-hour brought her to her destination
; but to her dismay the bank was
closed.

She was turning away, when the old
clerk, who had seen and recognised the
carriage through!! the bank's wire blinds,
issued forth, and asked her commands.

Cecie descended from the carriage, and,
entering the bank, produced the notes.

*' Give me this in gold, please."

The old man stared.

There's four hundred and sixty pounds
here, my lady," he said, turning them over
with his thumb.

I know," she said calmly.

But my lady, it will be so heavy ? " he
objected.

Have I not my carriage ? " she asked
haughtily.

Pardon me," and he bowed gravely and
left her, in a minute returning with four
canvas bags, which he handed to her. Lady
Main waring placed them in her dressing-bag,
and waited with no apparent impatience
while he counted out the remaining
sixty sovereigns.

Then, thanking the old clerk for attending
to her out of hours, she went quietly back
to her carriage, leaving him intensely
curious and mystified.

I wonder what she wants all that gold
for?" he said to himself. ''V\\ find out
where she is going."

Star and Glover's," he heard the order
given in Lady Mainwaring's quiet voice.

''Ah! ha!" he said. "She's got a
heavy dress bill to pay, and wants the gold
so that her husband shan't be able to trace
it ; and she's a bride of a few months ! "

The old clerk shook his gray head, and
went back to his books a wiser man in
the world's ways.

Lady Mainwaring followed Marie's instructions
to the letter, finding neither let
nor hindrance in so doing, and when the
5.30 train drew up she quietly stepped into
it, without seeming to notice Marie's
anxious face, thrust out of a window close
at hand.

The whistle was blown, the train rolled
out of the station, and mistress and maid
were clear away.

THE DISCOVERY.

Miss Challoner and young D'Eyncourt
had daily been finding greater pleasure in
each other's society.

Though Darrell had been very much
attached to Cecie, he was far too honourable
a man to think of her now but as his friend's
wife ; and the wound that at the time had
been a very grievous one, had been soothed
and healed by Louise Challoner, till it was
no more than the shadow of an old pain
long dead.

Cecie's interest still lay very near his
heart ; but he thought of her as he would

VOL. II. K

have thought of a dear sister, nothing
more.

All the love that he had driven back
into his heart for Cecie was now being
slowly drawn forth by dainty little Louise.
She saw it and knew it — women are very
keen in such matters — and though she
loved him with all her heart, she would
not let him see it. She teased him, and
coaxed him, till Darrell felt quite bewildered
; but the moment he attempted
to say anything approaching sentimentality
she would laugh merrily, and so persistently
make fun of him that he felt in despair.

On the day of the hunt they had started
for a brisk walk, and returning, had gone
to the billiard - room, and after whiling
away a desultory hour over the fire and
afternoon tea, had started a game at
billiards, which proved more amusing to
Louise than to Darrell.

She played in a most ladylike manner.

holding her cue like a spoon, and crumpling
her little hand into all sorts of agonising
positions, which were utterly useless as
rests. She always played with such
tremendous force thafc nine times out often
she put the red in baulk ; occasionally
she would pocket a ball ; but as a rule,
nothing resulted from her stroke but such
a complete scattering of the balls that it
was only by superhuman effort that anything
at all would be made ; and Darrell
had to feel contented to see his score
slowly growing through his adversary's
misses. A hard trial this for a good
billiard-player, however much in love.

After a while Louise began to wonder
where Lady Mainwaring could be ; and,
at last, as she did not come in, went to
dress for dinner.

A few minutes later Darrell, in crossing
the hall, met Sir Herbert.

Just come in, old fellow ? " he asked.

K 2

Mainwaring just nodded, and began to
question the butler .

Has her ladyship come in yet, Shames ? "

Yes Sir Herbert. Her ladyship came
in about three, and ordered the carriage
almost immediately, and has not yet
returned."

Let me know directly she does," his
master said.

You'll wait dinner. Sir Herbert ? "

^^Why?"

*' It's a quarter to seven."

No ; let dinner be served at the right
time," and he went up to his room.

Dinner-time came, but Lady Mainwaring
did not make her appearance. Sir Herbert
tried to seem at his ease, but questioned
Geoffrey eagerly whether he had heard
Cecily say anything about going for a
drive. Geoffrey did not remember, but
he bes^an to feel a vas^ue sense of uneasiness
creeping over him.

It was but a dull dinner. All rose
together to go to the drawing-room. As
they entered, the ormolu clock chimed out
half-past eight.

Sir Herbert could no longer control his
anxiety, but paced up and down the room
in a fever, wondering what could have
become of her.

Who has not felt the horrors of suspense,
waiting and watching for one to return,
till the minutes become hours and the
hours centuries ? At one moment anger
swells the heart against the absentee, and
an arrival at such a moment would be by
no means a pleasant one ; then, as the
leaden-footed moments drag by, fear overmasters
all other emotions, and all the
bitterness is gone, leaving only an intense
longing for a glimpse of the expected
face. The hearing becomes doubly acute,
every footstep, every sound is caught by
the strained ears ; it is impossible to try

to read or work, impossible to settle to
anything but watching and listening ; while
through the brain flit countless ghastly-thoughts
of the horrors that may have
occurred — visions of lifeless forms being
borne to their homes, of broken limbs,
fractured skulls, messengers bearing woful
tidings, till at last the well-known footstep
comes by, and the missing one returns
provokingly well, happy, and jolly, and
not in any way disposed to be grateful
for the misery his defalcation has caused,
but far more inclined to grumble at the
long face with which he was greeted.

Had Cecily returned at this moment her
husband would have received her with open
arms, and been only too thankful she had
returned, even though he was furious against
her and meant to upbraid her for having so
basely deceived him.

All the afternoon he had been pondering

how to separate from her without causing
any public scandal.

He was determined she should no longer
live with him ; and as there was not sufficient
plea for a divorce, he decided against
the scandal of a legal separation, and had
half made up his mind to go abroad at
once.

As the moments passed and Cecie did not
return, the soft feeling vanished ; and as he
strode up and down the room a heavy frown
gathered on his brow, and he began to be
furious with her for causing him this
anxiety.

A perfect tempest gathered in his breast ;
his anger grew fiercer every moment ; he
was forced to restrain it ; and it was well
for Cecie she was not at hand for him to
wreak his rage upon.

In that hour he would have been glad to
see her lying dead at his feet, and to know

that the disgrace she had brought upon him
had died with her. The wives of the
Maintains had always been women of
family, and he ground his teeth to think he
had been the one to besmirch their hitherto
unsullied escutcheon.

Nine o'clock struck, and roused him from
his reverie. He rang the bell, and desired
Shames to come to him.

The old butler entered with a rather
scared face.

Has her ladyship returned ? " asked his
master.

No Sir Herbert ; the carriage has returned,
but without my lady."

What can this mean ? " cried the
baronet ; " and what does Charles mean
by returning home without his mistress ;
send him to me at once."

The interview with the coachman elicited
very little further. He had waited all the
afternoon outside Star's, and when the

footman saw them beginning to close the
shop, he had gone in to inquire if Lady
Mainwaring were still there ; he had then
learnt that her ladyship had been there
early in the afternoon, and after buying
some gloves had walked through the shop,
and left it by the door in Queen Street.
The coachman then thought the best thing
to do was to return home at once, and had
done so.

Had they stopped at any other place
besides Star's ?

At the bank ; her ladyship was in there a
few minutes after it had closed.

Sir Herbert dismissed the man, and paced
the library for a few moments ; then he
threw himself down in the chair placed at
his writing-table, and thought over the
coachman's statement again. As he did so
his hand wandered idly amongst the papers
and litter on the table, and lighted on the
steel paper-knife he always used. As at

such moments little things will occupy the
attention, when great things are at stake,
so the paper-knife for a moment absorbed
his thoughts. He noticed the handle,
admired its beautiful damascene work, then
looking' at the blade he discovered it was
bent and notched. How could that have
happened ? He was so careful of the knife,
and thought so much of it. A little
splinter of wood was adhering to it —
something had been forced open. In an
instant he glanced towards the drawer in
which he had placed the money. It was a
little way open, and empty.

At first he felt dazed at the second minor
misfortune, following so quickly on the
greater one ; then the whole thing flashed
across him — Cecily had stolen the money
and left him. At first the true reason did
not occur to him, then the idea crossed his
mind that by some means or other she must
have got wind of the letter from Miss Fits

11, and fled from his anger. He put his
hand in his pocket to search for the letter he
had intercepted. It was not there ; he
remembered changing his coat, and went
upstairs to look, but there was no letter.
In crossing the floor he stepped on something,
and stooping to pick it up saw his
pencil case, and near it some coppers.
Then the whole thing was as clear as
daylight to him ; he had dropped the letter
out of his pocket, his wife had found it, and
taken flight before he returned.

His idea of hushing things up could not
be carried out. He must brave the world's
remarks, shut up the Hall, and go abroad
for a time.

He went slowly down the stairs, and
entering the drawing-room, begged his
brother and Darrell to come to the library
with him.

When the door was closed he turned and
faced the two men.

"Her ladyship lias run away," he said
quietly.

Good God ! " Geoffrey exclaimed.

In heaven's name, where has she gone
to ? " queried Darrell.

*'I neither know nor care," Sir Herbert
said brutally.

** Herbert ! " broke from both men.

"I mean what I say. I had found out
who and what she was, and meant to put
her away quietly ; but as she has taken the
law into her own hands, and forced a
scandal on me, I mean to close the Hall,
and go abroad till next season, when I
shall go into Leicestershire for the hunting."

And your wife ; what of her ? " Geoffrey
said sarcastically.

I have done with her from this moment.
The illegitimate child of an actress shall
never be wife of mine."

*what!" cried Darrell, starting up.

I can prove what I say. I read a letter

this morning addressed to Lady Main waring,
from Miss FitzAlleyn, signed 'Your affectionate
mother and seeking to extort
money from her; and in the event of her
refusing, threatening to tell me all. Her
ladyship found the letter, broke open my
writing-table, and having stolen nearly five
hundred pounds, has gone ofi*. She can do
as she pleases now ; she has feathered her
nest pretty well, and won't trouble me till
she has got through what she stole."

Herbert, you have no right to speak of
Cecily in that way, nor must you act as
you intend to. She is your wife recollect,
to cherish and protect, and nothing could
justify you in casting her adrift on the world
so long as she is a good wife to you."

'' 1 want nothing to justify me," Sir
Herbert said. " I am justified in myself.
She grossly wronged me, and basely deceived
me ; and had she stayed to meet
me, I should have told her that from this

moment she should cease to be a wife to me.
She dared not stay to face me, plainly showing
she was conscious of her sin, and if I
wanted any justification, she has given it
me."

I think," Geoffrey said severely, '' that
your unfortunate misguided wife fled because
she feared your brutality. I have
not been blind all this while ; I have seen
her yearning for kindness from you, and
receiving instead words far worse than blows.
That poor girl's life has been a torment, a
misery to her. I don't blame her for concealing
the truth from you. Have you ever
given her a chance ? You forced her,
through abject fear, to write that last letter
to those women. You never gave her any
encouragement to be frank and open with
you. You have brought it all on yourself,
Herbert. At heart that girl was as good a
woman as ever breathed ; she was a wife in
whose keeping any man might safely trust

this honour ; and had you only chosen to
mould her, would have been all you could
have desired. But no ; you repressed her
affection, snubbed and ill-treated her.
"Was she warm and loving, you became cold
and distant; and did anything occur to worry
you, treated her to all your rough words until
the edge had worn off your annoyance.
A timid girl like Cecily would naturally
have feared violence, after the lano^uas^e
you used over the first letter from her
aunts, and when she found the second
one and learned that you were already
master of its contents, it is not to be
wondered at that she ran away.; womanlike
preferring to brave dangers of which
she knew nothing, than face a squall of
whose extent she was perfectly cognisant.
There was much good in Cecily ; but what
have you done with her finer and better
nature ? You have trampled it under foot,
and treated her with little short of tyranny.

And why ? Because she felt herself daily-growing
more like those horrible women
who brought her up, and accepted you
without caring more for you than as a
means of liberating herself. Had she
known what she was doing when she
married so thoughtlessly, she would have
hesitated ; but she was so young. She
was wrong to hide the secret of her birth
from you ; but again, why should the
innocent suffer for the guilty? Why
should she be a Pariah for the sin of her
mother ? '"'

'' That homily is all very well Geoffrey,"
his brother answered calmly ; " but it cannot
alter the fact that she has wronged
me deeply. I devoutly thank heaven
that she has gone."

'•'And do you mean to take no steps to
find her ? " cried Darrell.

Most certainly not."

"Shame on you then. But she shall

not be deserted. I will take on myself
the task of finding her, and will not rest
till she is safely placed amongst friends."

** I will join you in your search' said
Geoffrey, grasping Darrell's hand. " I
trust that in a few days we may have
found her ; and then Herbert, my first
steps will be to secure from you a liberal
allowance for her."

Sir Herbert scowled, but made no
reply.

Let us start at once," urc{ed Darrell.

'' We will, if possible. I will go and
question the servants, to get any further
information I can from them, and you
might be preparing for the start meanwhile."


^^What about Miss Challoner?" Darrell
asked suddenly.

"Oh," Sir Herbert rejoined gloomily;
"you can tell her all. I will not see
her ; so you must let her understand that

VOL. II. L

this house is no longer a fit place for
her to remain in, and that she had better
go home."

Strange emotions were at work within
Darrell's heart as he passed from the
library to the drawing-room. He was
infuriated with Sir Herbert for thus
treating his unfortunate young wife, and
felt only profound pity for poor misguided
Cecie. Then, again, he shrank
from his task of telling Louise and opening
her pure eyes to the miseries of the
world.

When he entered the room she was
seated at the piano, softly playing
snatches of melody. Agitation made him
bold. He took her hands from the piano,
and looked into the gentle upturned face.

What is the matter ? " she asked,
reading in his looks that something serious
had occurred. '^ Oh Mr. D'Eyncourt, is
Lady Mainwaring ill ? "

No," he said gently ; " but something
very serious has happened."

She rose and stood beside him.

^' Tell me," she said simply.

Darrell essayed to speak, but as he
looked into the innocent eyes words failed
him, and he could only gaze silently and
sadly at her.

She grew impatient, and moved towards
the door.

Let me go to her," she said. Darrell
laid a gentle restraining hand on her
shoulder, and stooping over her, he said :

You cannot go to her, Louise ; she has
left her home, and we don't know where
she is."

Louise drooped her head, and waited for
more. Darrell continued :

She has fled from Sir Herbert's cruelty."

She raised her head ; the soft mouth
was quivering with pity and sympathy.

'eyes, and having driven her away, he

T "

does not mean to make any effort to find
lier ; but neither Geoffrey nor I can bear
to think of that poor chill adrift and
friendless, so we are starting almost immediately
in quest of her, and I have come
to bid you good-bye, Louise."

I am so glad you are going to look for
her," Louise said softly, raising her eyes
big with tears. "It is indeed too dreadful
to think of her alone in the world. Oh
Mr. D'Eyncourt, how good you are to go
after her ! "

*' Good ! " he answered, '^ I would as soon
hear that you had left home and friends as
poor Cecily. Louise, this sudden trouble
makes me speak words I had meant should
remain unsaid a little longer : child, you
are dearer to me than life itself ; can you
love me a little in return ? "

His face was very near hers now, and he
strove gently to raise it, and gazed lovingly
on the flushed cheeks and the white lids

that could not be lifted from the shy
eyes."

Look up, my darling," he pleaded, but
she, with a soft gesture, drew her head
away, and whispering :

No, no ; it is wrong to be happy now,"
buried her burning cheeks on his shoulder.

For a moment he held her to him, then
bending over her, pressed upon her fresh
young lips love's first sweet kiss.

*mine for ever," he murmured, and the
shy smile on Louise's face seemed to say
she was well contented it should be so.

Some time later Geoffrey came in with
the unwelcome intelligence that they could
not possibly catch the last train, and must
therefore wait for the mornings.

He believed Cecily had gone to London,
and meant to cross over to France. Her
maid had also left that afternoon, taking a
quantity of luggage with her, and had told
the man who helped her to get the boxes

away, that she was returning to her own
country, though when he spoke of it five
minutes later, she denied having said so.

As there was nothing more to be done
that night, they decided to go to bed at
once, to be ready for an early start in the
morning, and it was arranged that Louise
should accompany them to town.

CRUSHED.

From amongst a heap of papers and bills
that lay on the breakfast-table, Maud Fits
picked out a letter that bore Cecie's
handwriting. She glanced at it, then
dropped it with a loud cry.

What is the matter dear ? '^ Lyn asked,
looking up from The Morning Post.

I wish to goodness you would mind
your own business."

It must be bad news ; tell me, whom is
the letter from ? "

What in the world is that to you ? "

"Everything," Lyn answered temperately.

'' Come Maud, don't be silly. What concerns
you must concern me, our lives have
been too closely interwoven for a blow to
fall on one without touching the other ;
we must each take our own share of the
calamity."

Well as you are so anxious for yours,
pray take it, and enjoy it," Maud said
savagely, tossing the letter across. " Cecie
has gone, and I wish I had been hanged
before I wrote that last note to her."

Cecie gone ! What do you mean ? "

'' Head the letter and you will find out."

Lyn read it out. It ran thus :

Before this reaches you, I shall have
left my home for ever, and you will have
the satisfaction of knowing that it is
through you I have gone. My husband
has seen both your letters ; after the first
one he threatened to turn me out of his
house if any tie really existed between us ;

and jour second letter he had opened
during my absence. I dare not Avait to
face him ; and through my mother's kindness
am forced to leave my husband, and
seek refuge from his violence in the
world.

I am sorry for you, you have killed
the goose that might have laid you
countless golden eggs.

'' Cecily Mainwaring."

'' Oh Maud ! " Lyn gasped, when she
had read the letter through. *' Poor
child ! what can we do ? "

'* That is precisely what I am thinking,
for if we fail to raise money somehow,
we shall be in a pretty mess."

*' I did not mean that, Maud," Lyn said
impatiently. " I was thinking of poor
Cecie. She was an incubus, but I cannot
bear to think of her alone, and goodness
knows where. Let us search for her, sister;

we have a right to look after her — let
us find her and bring her back to live
with us again. A pretty young thing like
that ought not to be left unprotected."

Lyn, you are a mad idiot," was all
Miss FitzAlleyn vouchsafed ; after a few
moments she went on, " If the girl is
foolish enough to leave a good home, fora
sentimental notion, she must bear the
consequences, I don't intend to keep her
again."

Then at least let us search for her,
and put her amongst people she will be
safe with," urged Lyn.

Miss FitzAlleyn brought her hand
sharply down on the table.

Look here Lyn, let's have no more of
this folly. I won't have anything to do
with the girl. She has ruined us, and I
would not stir a finger after her. We have
quite enough before us in meeting our
own debts, without seeking her out and

supporting her. She has made her bed ;
let her lie on it."

Lyn made no reply, she was gazing
absently into the fire ; apparently she had
not heard her sister's speech.

Miss FitzAlleyns impatience could not
brook this inattention. She rose hastily
and seized her by the shoulder.

"Do you hear me Lyn? We have
troubles enough of our own to think of
without taking fresh ones upon us. Weare
ruined."

What ! " cried Lyn, starting up and
confronting her sister.

"Yes, ruined. I kept it all to myself,
hoping for a good cheque from that ungrateful
Cecily ; but as that has failed
there is no denying the fact — ruin is
staring us in the face. The man who
sold us this house says he must be paid
up at once, as he is leaving England.
Then the butcher and the baker, and all

the rest of the harpies, say they can give
no more credit. What is to be done ?
AVe have about thirty pounds to our
name at the bank till the next quarter
is due from Hugh. He is away, goodness
knows where, so we cannot hope
for help from him ; and, as you know, he
withdrew the allowance for Cecily on her
marriage. Our pittance is now but a
miserable five hundred a-year. What are
we to do ? "

Lyn was silent, digesting the unpleasant
news her sister had given her. After a
while she spoke,

We must leave here."

*' How ? It's very easy to say we
must leave ; but perhaps you have not
calculated our liabilities ; the people here
would not let us leave."

"Can't we sell what we have got here
and pay ? " Lyn said, sighing.

Maud laughed.

*' Oh you dreamy old stupid ! How-are
we to live after. With the bills, and
the furniture, and the purchase-money of
this house, wee owe about seven thousand.
What we have to sell would fetch about
two, and we should be disgraced beggars
to the end of our days'

I think we shall be more dish-raced if

o

we don't."

Lyn, what has come over you. Are
you mad ? "

I don't know," Lyn said, bursting into
tears. " I feel as though I could not
bear this life any longer ; it kills me.
Oh wdiat would I give to have a fresh
start ; to be an honourable respectable
woman ! Oh if I only had the chance I
would be such a good woman ! "

"Well there is nothing to prevent your
going back to the old home. I daresay
our kind father is still living, and he
would do his best to put you out as

housemaid or something of the sort. You'd
have to take low washes at first in consequence
of having no character."

'' Oh Maud, how can you be so cruel ! "

'' Well, don't be so ridiculous. It is
all very well to talk ; but you know you
would not give up your life of luxury
for all the innocence the ^vorld contains."

I would. I would gladly work and
gain an honest living, to be free to look
other women in the face, to hold up my
head amongst them, the honoured wife
of a good man. What had I done that
all the holiest purest joys should have
been put far from me, unattainable, though
so madly longed for ? What had I done ? "

Why committed the sin of being a
good-looking woman, without money or
position. Come, let us have done with
moralising. We cannot alter the past, but
we can mould the future. Put sentiment
aside for a little and listen to me. You

suggest we must leave ; but we cannot
do that, we must bolt. There is a fine
distinction between the words. I shall
write to Mr. Edwin m 7^e his precious
Sibthorp Manor, that I have had so many-calls
on me lately that I cannot send him
his cheque for a month, but that during
that time I return him the title deeds
till I can fully settle with him."

*' And what then?"

'before the month is out, we must be
clear away from this."

*' But he will have his eye on us, and
detain us."

*' Then I must frame the letter differently
know what I can do. Til write and tell
him a relation of mine is dying and I
must go and see him at once, and that I
have not time to attend to business before
I go, but that immediately I return I will
settle with him. I will write in the greatest
grief and distress, and we will be off tomorrow

before the letter is posted, taking
with us everything that is valuable and
portable, and get clear away before he has
time to think."

'' Must we ? " sighed Lyn.

'^ Certainly, unless you would prefer to
stay and be torn in pieces by irate Bod-minutes."


Very well," Lyn said sadly, and rose to
leave the room.

'for goodness' sake put off your languor
till the day after tomorrow, and be sensible
now. I want you to go quietly about collecting
everything that seems saleable. I
will get as much silver together as I can,
and you get the best china from the 
and those silver carvings, they will
fetch a handsome sum. Don't take enough
to be noticeable, and let whatever you take
be of value ; then, with our own clothes and
jewels, we shall do very well. We won't
take a maid ; she would only be in the way

and might perhaps betray us. I rely on
yoii to be prompt ; I shall write my note
now, and then come to you," and Maud
turned to her writing-table as Lyn left the
room.

VOL II.

Struggle.

In a small, neat, but poorly-furnished room
a girl was seated, a thin dog's-eared book in
her hand — studying diligently.

She was tall and very pretty, with a slim
rounded figure and a delicate complexion,
that hardly seemed in keeping with the
dark brown hair that clustered in rings on
her forehead. Altogether there was something
very incongruous about her ; she was
handsomely dressed, and what jewellery she
wore was costly though plain, and yet she
was to all appearances at home in this
simple, almost humble, room.

The door opened, and a neat maid appeared
; she had evidently just been out,
and had brought a heavy bag of purchases
to show her mistress.

"Well Marie!" says the lady; and
when she speaks the voice is Lady Main-waring's,
but what is the difference in
her — how is she altered ? A closer
scrutiny reveals the whole secret. It is
the mass of sunny hair that is wanting
to make her the Cecie of old — by Marie's
advice she had dyed it a dark brown —
and so effectual a disguise has it proved,
that only yesterday she passed young
D'Eyncourt in the street without being
recognised.

'' Madame," said Marie ; '^ I have brought
everything necessary for the day ; shall
I give directions for the dinner, and
return to dress you for your walk ? "

Yes, I think you had better ; and I
shall want you to come with me toil
2

day. I know my part quite well
now, and feel confident of getting the
engagement."

Madame, do you think you are strong
enough for the stage ? The life seems
so hard."

"I must do something to live Marie,
and I really think I am quite strong
enough for the life ; and besides, I don't
know what else I could do."

Need you do anything madame ? Let
Marie work. I can make bonnets, and
the like, and earn plenty in that way
Oh madame ! do let me work for you ;
indeed you have not the strength ! "

No Marie ! good, faithful girl ; you
shall stay with me always, and go where
I go, but I will work — if you call it
working. Why, think how easy my work
will be, only a few hours every evening,
and I love acting. I hope Mr. Gilmore
may be satisfied with me to-day. I have

no secrets from you my faithful friend,
so I will tell you why I am so anxious.
Mr. Wilmore has said that if I can
satisfy him with my rendering of this
part, and advance one hundred pounds
towards the production of the play, he
will give me the heroine's part and a
salary of five pounds a week. If I get
that I am made. What do you think
about it Marie?"

Will the gentleman say all this in
writing ? "

"Yes; oh, I will be cautious."

Then madame, I think it would bea
very good thing to do, that is, if you
will do it."

I must Marie, and I shall be so
delighted if I can only get this engagement.
I shall then be free from this
horrid walking-lady work I have had todo
lately. They say I do it very well,
but I can't be content with it, when I

feel I could be doing so very much
better. I think Mr. Wilmore will be disappointed
if I fail, for he told me he
was sure I could do it if I tried, and
he said, when he saw me in ' Contraband,'
he was sure I was capable of
something much better than that horrid
little vulgar part. And if I do get to
the , shall I not be most fortunate
? It is one of the best theatres in
town. I have been very lucky so far
Marie. Fancy getting an engagement the
first time I tried for one I '^

Yes ; le hon Diei has been very good
to the poor stricken lamb. Wonderful
have been His mercies to us, and every
hour I praise Him, and each time I tell
my beads I will say an Ave for madame,
that she may have strength to pursue
the work she has set herself."

You are always thinking of me, I
believe. Now go and get me my hat.

and tell them I am going out, bub that
if anyone calls I shall be back at four."

Soon after they were on their way , to
Mr. Wilmore's.

'mrs. Maitland' the man announced,
ushering them into his master's study.

"My dear Mrs. Maitland — punctuality
itself," said Mr. Wilmore rising to greet
her, and speaking in a pleasant rich-toned
voice. " Brought the part I see. If you
don't mind we will get to business at
once. You must remember that I am
expecting to find a second Mrs. Siddons
in you, and that I shall be horribly disappointed
if I don't ; so you must do
your best for my sake. In face and
figure you are cut out for the character."

Cecily smiled at the compliment, and
without further delay began upon the
business in hand.

In the corner sat Marie, a silent, observant,
and intensely admiring audience ;

while with book in hand, reading now
one part, now another, was Mr. Wilmore,
acting himself, and giving distinct individuality
to every speech, but yet never
losing a word or gesture of Mrs. Maitland's.
In the open space that served for a proscenium
was Cecie herself — her heart and
soul in her work, identifying herself with
her part. She was no longer poor misguided
Cecily Mainwaring, but the unfortunate
heroine of the play, suffering
with her, rejoicing with her, feeling every
thrill of emotion that must have throbbed
in her heart ; forgetful of self, but living
a new life in the story entrusted to her.
It was a fine piece of acting — strong,
vigorous, and realistic, and, above all,
sympathetic.

When the last word had been spoken,
the last scene gone through, there was a
short silence, broken only by the sobs
of Marie, whose butterfly French heart

had been deeply touched by her mistress's
ife-like representation.

At last Mr. Wilmore spoke.

"My dear Mrs. Maitland," he said,
"let me congratulate you. The part is
yours ; and I need not prophesy a great
success for you. You must feel it all in
yourself, and be fully conscious of succeeding

What is the matter, my

dear madam ? " — this as Cecie, looking
deathly pale, and pressing her hand to
her side, had sunk half-fainting into a
chair.

Marie rushed to her.

"She is always like this after coming
off the stage. I do not believe she is
strong enough for the life."

Mr. Wilmore had some brandy ready ina
moment, and as he handed it to Marie,
he said,

Let us hope your mistress will get
stronger, for talent such as hers ought

not to be hidden away. She must make
a great hit."

By-and-by Cecie recovered.

'' It is my heart," she said apologetically.
" It troubles me like this sometimes,
when the excitement is over."

The manager smiled blandly.

Let us hope it will soon pass away,.
Mrs. Maitland. I have known many
young ladies feel ill effects from overfatigue
and that sort of thing when first
they went on the stage, but it passes
away in time. Novices who are really
clever take things too much to heart at
first, and really suffer with the characters
they assume. After a while they begin
to take things more quietly, as older
actresses do ; and though they still continue
to feel their parts, they do so ina
calmer manner, and lose the disagreeable
after-effects. It is only a species of
nervousness."

I think that is all, for I am really quite
strong' Cecie said, gazing anxiously in his
face to see whether her indisposition had
produced a bad effect on him.

^^You are strong in talent if not in
health," he answered gallantly, " and I have
much pleasure in offering you the engagement.
After seeing you in the character,
no one else would do it justice in my
eyes."

'' And about the hundred pounds,
madame ? " Marie interrupted.

"That I would gladly waive altogether,"
Mr. Wilmore replied ; " but as you are so
young an actress, and will besides have made
such a sudden leap from insignificant parts
to a principal, you will be certain to rouse a
great deal of jealousy amongst the rest, and
through it I may be put to some expense ;
so to save all bother, I shall let it be understood
that you paid me that sum to be
brought out."

*' I see," Cecie answered.

Marie fancied her mistress was not feeling
well enough to look after her own
interests, so came to the fore quietly and
unobtrusively.

Will monsieur write all that down, and
state the salary madame is to have ? "

Certainly. We will have a proper
agreement. If you will call tomorrow we
can sign it," Mr. Wilmore replied, a shade
of annoyance crossing his face at Marie's
interference. The shrewd Frenchwoman?
however, thought there was no time like
the present, and nothing daunted by the
evident disfavour with which the manager
regarded her, said,

'' Does not madame think it better to
have all settled at once ? Madame might
take another engagement, or monsieur
might change his mind, and give the part
to someone else ; or, worse still, he might

find the jealousy of his artistes so very
terrible that he would not dare to p-ive
the engagement to madame. Would it not
be wise for monsieur to write down what
he said, and let it be signed and settled
while we are here this morning ? "

Yes, I think it would be nicer to have
it all settled at once," Cecie said. '' And if
you do not mind Mr. Wilmore, I should be
glad to have it arranged now. You would
give me my agreement, fixing date of production
and everything, and also a receipt
for the hundred pounds, for which I would
give you a cheque."

Certainly, if you wish it," Mr. Wilmore
answered, " though your companion need
not have feared my giving the part to anyone
else. I think I have as keen an eye
for a good speculation as most men, and as
I expect great things of you Mrs. Maitland,
I should not be likely to let you slip through

my fingers very easily. It is perhaps a
good arrangement however, for it makes
me sure of you."

After a short delay the agreements were
brought in and signed, Mrs. Maitland
binding herself to appear in the piece
about to be produced as "Florence," at a
salary of five pounds per week for the
term of three months ; and Mr. Wilmore
on his part, engaging himself, should the
piece not run, to give Mrs. Maitland her
choice of characters in whatever succeeded it.

"Well Marie," said Cecily as they left
the house and turned their steps homewards,
"are you not going to congratulate
me ? Am I not fortunate in getting
all so nicely settled ? "

I can only congratulate madame when
I find her health quite sufficient to stand
the strain on it," Marie said gravely, almost
ominously.

THE Truth AT LAST.

*why Mainwaring, old fellow, whatever's
the matter with you ? " was Dick Challoner s
greeting to Sir Herbert, as he met him one
afternoon in Pall Mall, a few weeks after
Cecie's flight.

"I should think you know; I should
think all the town knows," was the surly
reply.

"Have you been let in heavily lately,
then ? I've been about the clubs as usual,
but have heard nothing about it."

Sir Herbert turned and confronted him.

*' Come Challoner, no humbugging. Do

you mean to say you have not heard my
wife has bolted ? "

"What! Bolted! On my soul I have
never heard a word about it."

'^I expected to find it in everybody's
mouth ; but I suppose after all, when one
vegetates in the country for a few months,
one's most intimate friends forget one's very
existence."

Come Herbert, don't go on in that
strain. No one has forgotten you as far as
I know ; and if this has not got wind all
the better for you, and her — when you get
her back. Where has she gone to, and
why ? "

'' I shall never trouble myself about
getting her back. She's gone, and I have
done with her. As for her whereabouts, I
know no more where she is than you do."

*•' But who has she gone with ? "

Sir Herbert turned fiercely.

What do you mean ? "

Challoner laughed.

My dear boy, you know perfectly well.
Is it likely your wife ran away with herself !
You ought to have been more careful of a
young and pretty woman like that ; she
would not have run away before the honeymoon
was well over if you had not given
her too much liberty."

I must beg you not to make remarks of
that kind about my wife," Sir Herbert said
stiffly. " She has left me, but not for the
reason you suppose. I think, whatever her
faults. Lady Mainwaring would not have
condescended to leave me for another man,"
and Sir Herbert bit his lips angrily at the
mere notion. He might not love her
himself, but he had the consciousness that
she loved him wholly and solely, and that
his honour was safe in her keeping.

Dick Challoner was completely mystified.

What does it all mean then ? "

Simply that I found out who she was

VOL. II. N

by reading a letter from that beautiful
woman, ber mother; and she found out I
knew everything, and ran away before I
bad time to put her away."

I am more at sea than ever," said
Challoner. "What was it you found out
that you did not know before you married
her?"

Everything."

Why my dear fellow, Stapylton showed
me a letter in your own writing saying you
were well acquainted with Cecily's past
history, and did not wish the subject mentioned.
If it had not been for that letter I
should have spoken to you."

You knew all then ? "

Of course I did."

And yet you never warned me — and I
looked on you as my friend."

I did not know till I was in the church,
and I saw those two women. When I
knew them they were under another name ;

SO when you mentioned your future wife
was under the care of a Miss FitzAlleyn, I
took no more notice of the name than if
you had said Miss Brown or Miss Green.
When I saw them I went straight to
Stapylton and asked if you knew, and for
reply he showed me your letter. We were
in the church ; I had no time to do more.
Stapylton ought to have told you, and yet I
suppose your letter deceived him as well
as it deceived me ; though certainly in
his position I think he ought to have
insisted on explaining things."
'' Why in his position ? "
"Then you don't yet know all."
All ! Is there more to know ? "
Only that Stapylton is Cecily's father,"
Challoner said calmly.

"Stapylton her father! And you knew
all this, and never told me ? "

In the face of your letter "

Confound the letter, and you too. Had

N 2

you lead the spirit of a mouse you would
have saved me all this disgrace. You have
called yourself my friend, and have been my
cruellest foe. Kichard Challoner, you are a
cur."

If it were not for the years I have
known you, I'd thrash you for that,"Challoner
cried in a fury, grasping his cane. "As it is,
I decline to say another word in the matter.
If you wish to know the whole thing, you
had better find Sir Hugh, and get it out of
him ; " and hailing a hansom, Challoner
jumped in, and bowled away, before
Mainwaring had time to stop him.

His blood was on fire. He was determined
to get to the end of this matter,
now it had gone so far ; so, entering his
club, he began inquiring from everyone he
knew if anything had been heard of
Stapylton lately.

No one knew where he was.

A messenger was despatched to his club

for his address, but returned with the intelligence
that they did not know where
he was ; there were a great many letters
waiting for him, but he had never written
or sent for them since he last left town.

Main waring fumed. Find him he would ;
but how and where ? Where should he go
first ? He was half inclined to wait a few
days, to see if he could get any clue to his
neighbourhood, when a man he knew slightly
accosted him with,

Were you inquiring for Stapylton ? "

"Yes ; I am most anxious to know where
he is at the present time. Can you tell
me ? "

"He is with Meltham, on board the
Mona ; they have been cruising about the
Mediterranean for the last month or two,
and were talking, when I saw them last
week, of laying-up at Naples for a few days,
and then saying good-bye to civilised lands
for a while. They had not decided whereto

go : Meltliam was for making straight for
Japan, while Stapylton wanted to go first to
Calcutta."

'' Last week you say ? How long did
they talk of stopping at Naples ? "

Only a few days I believe."

"Do you think it would be possible to
catch them before they leave ? I have some
business of vital importance with Sir Hugh
Stapylton."

"You might do it; but I would advise
you not to lose an hour, for the odds are
ten to one that you just miss them by a
day."

Hurriedly murmuring his thanks, Sir
Herbert left the club, and lost no time in
making his preparations to start by the
mail that same evening.

Travelling night and day, he at last
reached Naples, and there had the satisfaction
of finding the Mona lying-to in the
offing. As he looked at her a sail was

being hoisted, and he saw he was not a
moment too soon, for there were evident
preparations being made for a start.

Chartering a boat, he offered a handsome
reward if the boatmen could bring him
alongside the yacht before she sailed.

On board the Mona there was the usual
confusion consequent on putting out to sea.
Sir Hugh had gone aft to get out of it
all, and was leaning over the taflfrail taking
a farewell look at Naples.

At last he sighted a small boat pulling
hard towards them.

By Jove Meltham," he said to his host,
who at the moment joined him, ^'I do
believe this boat is making for us. They've
a passenger in the stern. I wonder who it
is. Looks like a gentleman, but I don't
recognise him, can you ? " and he handed
the glass to his friend.

'' Never seen him before," Meltham
affirmed; "he must have made a mistake.

or the Neapolitan wiseacres muddled the
yacht's name. What a nuisance when we
wanted to be off. We shall have to give
him lunch, and lay-to for another three or
four hours."

A few moments more, and the boat was
within hail.

"Is Sir Hugh Stapylton on board?"
a voice inquired.

'' Certainly, here he is'' Sir Hugh
answered.

I am sorry to delay you, but I must
have a few minutes' conversation with you,"
and in a few seconds Sir Herbert stood on
the yacht's deck.

Why Main waring ! " cried Sir Hugh,
extending his hand, but the other declined
to touch it.

You must excuse me," he said, " but at
the present moment I cannot clasp hands
with you."

Something unpleasant has occurred,"

thought Meltham ; so, coming forward
courteously, he said,

You want to speak privately to my
friend. Stapylton, go into my cabin ; you
will be free from interruption there, and
if you want cigars, champagne, or anything,
just order whatever you like."

When they were alone. Sir Hugh waited
silently for Main waring to speak.

I have followed you," he said at last,
''to demand the truth about my wife.'

Sir Hugh said, as Challoner had said
before him,

"From the letter you wrote me before
your wedding, I thought you knew the
truth."

"There was a misapprehension between
us ; I was hurried into the marriage by
everyone. Why did you not insist on
seeing me before it took place ? I thought
you only referred in your letter seeking an
interview, to my wife having been under

the care of those women. I never guessed
there was anything further, though I own
that till I heard you were her uncle I was
sceptical about her family. But I never
dreamed that one man would play off his
illegitimate daughter on another, in the
way you got rid of her by forcing heron
me."

^' I had nothing to do with the forcing ;
till this moment I thought you married her
of your own free will," Sir Hugh said
calmly, keeping his temper under control,
as he saw how agitated and fatigued the
other was. '' Besides, who said Cecily was
illegitimate ? "

AVho could say anything else ? "

*' I can. Her mother is my wife, and has
been for the last eighteen years''

^' Your wife ! "

eyes," Sir Hugh said bitterly, "my
wife, and the curse and bane of my
life."

In his own trouble Mainwaring could feel
something of the grief that had so long
weighed down Sir Hugh, and stretching
out his hand, he grasped Stapylton's, and
looked into his face with an earnest
sympathy that made them friends then and
for all time.

You may wonder why I don't acknowledge
her," Sir Hugh said with a bitter
laugh, "so I had better tell you the whole
story and then we can dismiss the subject
for ever'' and forthwith he related the tale
of his most unhappy life.

When he had come to the end, he called
for some refreshment for his guest, and
after a pause, asked,

"What of Cecily, how is she?" Sir
Herbert coloured and looked uncomfortable,
at last he said,

I don't know, she has left me," and
at once he made Sir Hugh acquainted
with the story of Cecily's flight.

And have you tried to find her ? " Sir
Hugh asked.

Mainwaring made a clean breast of it.

No, I have not. When I found hour
I had been deceived in her, I was so
furious with her, that I never attempted
to find her, and was indeed glad, rather
than anything else that she had left
me."

'but I don't think Cecie did deceive
you. I don't think she knew anything at
all about the matter."

She may not have known it all ; but
I am sure from her manner that she knew
who her mother was."

But she must be found."

Yes now I know all, I will myself
endeavour to find her ; but Sir Hugh she
shall never live with me again. That shall
never be, she has deceived me once, and I
can never forgive her for it, nor could I
trust her again. We will endeavour to

find her, and place her in comfort with
some friend we can trust, but the rest of
our lives must be spent apart."

Could you never forgive her that one
false step ? I believe her to be deeply
and devotedly attached to you ; when I
last saw her she spoke of you as a woman
only speaks of the man she really cares
for. She is so young to be punished all
her life long for one offence, and — pardon
me — you are very young to make yourself
so stern a judge."

"No Sir Huo;h, it is no use aro^uinor
the fact with me. I did not care for
Cecily when I married her. I was forced
into it by Mrs. D'Eyncourt ; and even
had Cecie proved all that a man
could desire, I doubt if we should
have been happy. I should always have
girded at the idea of being entrapped
into a marriage, when I had not enjoyed
half the years of bachelorhood a man.

likes to have. Now I think I must be
returning to Naples. I am glad I was
in time to see you, and that we have
been able to explain matters so far," and
rising, Mainwaring once more extended
his hand.

"Good-bye," he said.

*' Stay a moment," Sir Hugh said ;.
If Cecily is missing, there is as much
necessity for me to search for her, as
for you. We are I think, equally responsible
for her welfare. I will speak to
Meltham, and I think I had better accompany
you on your return journey."

Leaving the cabin Stapylton sought his
host. Poor Meltham ! Once more his
yachting party was broken up. When he
heard that Stapylton was wishing to leave
him he was very much put out.

Of course you can't help it, my dear
fellow," he said; "but it's the deuce and
all. What the dickens am I to do cruising

about alone ? I should drown myself byway
of a change. I don't want to part
with you, and I don't know what to do
if you go; but I suppose you must go
if you say so. Would this important
business not keep a month or two ? "

'^ I am afraid not. I really must go ;
but I am very sorry to disarrange your
plans."

swell, well, it can't be helped,"
Meltham said moodily, puffing away at
his cigar, and pacing the deck.

A minute later he rejoined Sir Hugh
with a beaming face.

** Stapylton, does your friend want to
return to England also ? "

'^ Yes ; we shall go back together."

'then I'll take you. I can't be left
here by myself. We will go back to
England together, your friend as well if
he will come ; we will have a few more
pleasant days together, and I'll run upto

town with you from Cowes and try
and make up a fresh party for a fresh
start."

Thus it was arranged. Sir Herbert
was quite agreeable to the idea ; the
boat was sent back for his baggage, and,
when evening came, the Mona was put
about, and steered her course for the
white cliffs of old England.

ON THE TRACK.

In" one of the best hotels in the West End
three men sat chatting. Dinner was laid
for four, and they were speculating how
long it would be before the fourth man
arrived.

If he is not here in a few moments,"
Dick Challoner opined, 'rit is no good
waiting for him and getting everything
spoiled. I shall be glad to meet the lad
again for we parted in anger, and I ought
to have remembered the unhappy state of
mind he must have been in, and known
better than to take offence at anything
he might say'

VOL. II. o

I am particularly anxious that Herbert
may come to-nights' Geoffrey said quietly.

"Why ? Have you any special reason?"
asked Darrell D'Eyncourt eagerly.

I think I have a special reason ; but
at present it is my secret. I shall not
divulge it till Herbert comes. Ah, here
he is," as the door was flung wide and
Mainwaring entered, closely followed by
Stapylton.

*' I have brought Sir Hugh with me,"
he said.

*' Sir Hugh in town ! The ! " was

Challoner's muttered remark.

"Ah Challoner, how are you ? " Sir Hugh
said, coming to him and drawing him
aside.

The two men glared at one another in
silence for a moment, then Sir Hugh said
hoarsely,

"This is not the time for saying what
I have to say to you, Mr. Challoner."

You can say what you please when
you please," the other responded coldly.

I hope you have been contented with
dragging that woman's fair name through
the mire."

'that was all I had to make me
content," Challoner said.

A light shone in Sir Hugh's eyes.

"Do you mean that that telegram was
all a lie ; that she never was thereat
all?"

I am not in the habit of telling lies,
either by telegraph or in any other way."

That is no answer. I asked you a
plain question ; answer it plainly. Was
she there ? "

She was."

Sir Hugh gave a smothered groan.

"What right had you to entice her
there ? " he asked fiercely.

Exactly the same right that you had to
make yourself foolish over her. When you

o 2

were once away why did you not stay,
instead of returning to spoil everything ? "

*' What have I spoilt by returning ? " Sir
Hugh asked hastily.

"Nothing," Challoner returned, afraid lest
in the heat of the moment he had betrayed
himself; and joining the others, he deliberately
cut short the unpleasant conversation.


Sir Hugh was puzzled. He could not
understand it altogether. How had he
spoilt everything by returning ; and what
did Challoner mean by letting slip that
things were not so smooth v/ith Miss
Ainsworthy as he would have had it
supposed ?

Sir Hugh determined to investigate this
before he again left England, and then
returned to the others.

Any tidings of Cecily ? " was the
eagerly-asked question.

I have none to give," Darrell said sadly.

My search has been so far utterly fruitless.
I cannot gain the slightest clue to her
whereabouts. When we do find her, I
expect we shall hear that she took no precautions
whatever to conceal her movements ;
and thus completely mystified us all, and
the police into the bargain, by the very
simplicity of her actions.'^

"And yoa Geoffrey?" Sir Herbert
asked.

Mr. Tremayne was silent a moment, and
then said quietly,

"No, I've no proofs for you ; but here is
dinner, let us eat first and talk after. I
have something to tell you, but not much.
Nothing I fear, of any vital importance'*

When dinner was nearly over Mr. Tree
astonished the party by a curious
request.

"Will you fellows come to the theatre

to-nio^ht ? I have taken a box at the .

What do you say to it ? "

Sir Herbert looked across at his brother
in amazement.

*' Considering the subject we were going
to discuss after dinner, I am rather surprised
at your suggestion Geoff," he said.

I don't feel inclined for it," Sir Hugh
chimed in. "I must confess to feeling a
great disinclination towards a theatre
to-night. I am impatient to hear about
this slight clue Tremayne seems to have
lighted on."

'what if I tell you my object in

asking you to come to the to-night

is to follow up this supposed clue ? "

Tell us more about it," all cried.

"About a fortnight ago I was walking
along the Strand, when I saw in the
distance a figure much resembling Cecily's
hurrying along before me. I quickened
my steps ; but with the number of
passengers on the pavement it was utterly
impossible to overtake the girl. So after

two or three vain efforts to get nearer her,
I had to content myself with following
at a distance, and keeping her well insight.
By-and-by she turned up a side
street, and before I had time to reach it
had vanished. She was no ghost, so I
felt sure she had gone into some house
in the street ; but as there were no shops
I felt rather astonished at the quick way
she had gained admittance. I strolled
up the street, and a moment later the
mystery was solved. I found myself

abreast of the stage-door of the .

The girl I was looking for had gone in
there. I tried to follow her, but was
ordered back in a peremptory manner by
a surly old doorkeeper. I propitiated him
with some silver, and toil him I wanted
to speak to the lady who had just gone
in. " What was her name ? " queried
the wily Cerberus. I did not know,
so hummed and hard a moment before

answering. The hesitation was quite
enough. '' You don't know her name,

he said roughly, "and I ain't going to
have no one annoyed here," and so saying
he slammed the door roughly in my face,
and left me to my own reflections.

I determined to wait and watch for her.
In about an hour s time the girl emerged
again. The old doorkeeper must have said
something about me, for she turned back
after speaking to the old man, and by-and-by
emerged with her face covered with so thick
a veil, it seemed impossible even to guess at
a single feature. Her figure was exactly
like Cecily's ; her height the same. I should
have gone and spoken to her, but for one
thing. This girl had a quantity of dark
brown, almost black, hair, and Cecily's
was a bright golden tinge. I followed the
girl to her home, and there found that she
was a Mrs. Maitland, an actress ; and that

she was in lodgings in the house, with her
maid. Her likeness struck me as so remarkable,
that I made up my mind to hunt
up this Mrs. Maitland's history. I found
that she had gone on the stage about ten
days after Cecily's disappearance. She had
begun with little minor parts, but had
showed herself so clever that the manager
was giving her the heroine's part in the new
play. She is to play to-night, and I want
you all to see her, that you may be able to
judge for yourselves whether it is Cecie or
not. The likeness is certainly marvellous,
but I have not been able to speak to her —
to tell you the truth, I have not felt justified
in accosting, and perhaps frightening a dark
girl when I am in search of a fair one."

We will all go with you as soon as we
have finished dinner," Sir Hugh said, *' and
amongst us all we shall be able to fathom
any disguise if it indeed be Cecily."

Somewhat hastily the dinner was concluded,
and ere long the whole party were
seated in the stage-box, waiting for the
curtain to rise.

FOUND.

''I WISH I had not to go on to-night,
Marie," said Cecily Mainwaring languidly;
'' I feel so depressed to-night, that I don't
feel at all equal to the effort."

*' Don't go then miladi," Marie urged.

No Marie ; I should go if I were only
just able to walk. You don't understand :
the success of a piece depends upon the
charm being kept up till its position is
quite assured as a favourite with the public.
Managers won't brook under studies till
there is no fear of the public getting disgusted
and flocking elsewhere. The piece

seems as if it would have a run, and, when
it has gone for about six weeks or so, then
ril take a rest if I feel to need it ; but now,
while I have strength and life in me, my
duty is to appear. Get me some tea, will
you Marie ? A good strong cup may
revive me."

Cecie sat in the twilight in her little
room ; the fire shone brightly around, and
showed how well her own good taste and
Marie's loving care had transformed the
modest little place into a home.

Anyone looking in from outside would
have said : *' What a cosy room ! How I
should like to live there ; it looks so homelike
and happy." But alas! the time had
come for Cecie when pretty surroundings
had lost their charm for her. Contentment
had fled, and left her house desolate.

She realised fully when she learned to
love her husband, how she had wronged
him ; and bitterly she regretted the past.

and wished it were possible that she could
undo it all, and set him free.

The ground seemed to crumble under
her feet as she stepped on it. The past
was despair, the future hopeless, the present
a round of duties that alone gave her forgetfulness,
and saved her poor worn brain
from reeling.

What unhappy lives some people seem
to have : apparently for no cause, everything
seems to go wrong with them — joy
to turn to Dead-sea fruit, and nothing to
flourish but sorrow.

Possibly such are in need of this severe
discipline to fit them for a better life.
Undoubtedly all is arranged by an all-seeing
eye for an all wise purpose ; but
nevertheless it is strange that to some
should be meted all the happiness, and
to others all the grief.

After all, what is happiness or joy ?
A vain, evanescent thing that eludes your

grasp, will-o'-tlie-wisp-like. If I could
have such and such a thing I should be
happy, says one ; and when the object
is gained, he finds himself not a bit
happier, but stranded again — longing
for something else. The greatest good is
contentment — contentment with our present
lot, be it what it may — a fixed
determination to make the best out of
our lives with whatever materials are
given to us, no matter how poor they may
appear. That is the only way to find
happiness. Be content with the good that
you have, and you find yourself happy
and at peace without knowing why.

There is no person living without some
beauty ; no one, however plain or ugly,
without some redeeming point, even if it
be but in figure or manner; so there is
no life, however cheerless and barren,
without its oasis.

The mistake is in overlooking these

little green spots ; in saying, *' Pshaw I do
you think I am going to be content with
half-a-dozen blades of grass, when my
soul is pining and wasting for a park ?
Shall I put up with a sapling, when I
desire a forest ? "

There's the mistake. The grass would
increase, the sapling grow to a fine tree;
and would we but encourage these tiny
green spots, we should find, before we
had time to think of it, that our half-dozen
blades of grass were stretching and
waving around us for acres and acres ;
our insignificant sapling had grown such
a noble tree, that we could sit under its
spreading branches, and rest, listening to
the birds that made their nests and sang
among its leafy arbours ; and to the giddy
insects that hummed around.

The thing is to realise the golden
moment, and seize it ; to know where
the green spots lie, and cultivate them.

By-and-by Marie returned with the tea.
Her mistress shivered as she took it from
her.

''I can't tell why," she said; *' but I
have a presentiment something is going
to happen. I can't shake it off, do what
I will. I have been trying to reason
myself out of it all, but it's no good."

"The room is triste in this light, it
has affected miladi's spirits," Marie returned,
bustling: about and lio^htinof the
gas, drawing the curtains and giving the
room a few little touches here and there.
** See miladi, that is more cheerful. The
presentiments will fly now."

"No, Marie, I don't think they will.
Come here, Marie ; I want to talk to

you."

Marie obeyed, seating herself in the seat
her mistress indicated.

You have been a good faithful friend
to me Marie," she went on, " and I

have often thought how well you have
behaved in coming into voluntary exile
with me, without ever seeking to discover
the reason I have felt sure you
must have wondered."

I always felt that miladi had done
what she thought best, and that was
sufficient for me. I did not seek to
know the reason, for I felt that did
miladi wish me to know, she would
tell me."

*' You have been very good, and I
thank you for it'' Cecily said, grasping
the girl's honest hand. "I have been
thinking a great deal this afternoon. I
could not even get my usual after-dinner
nap for thinking."

*that is why you feel indisposed now
then, miladi ? "

It may be ; but I feel that I must
tell you before I go to the. theatre. I
shall just have time, and if anything

VOL. II. P

happens, I should like you to have heard
the truth from my own lips ; and I want
to tell you for another reason. If I
should only live till my child is born,
I want you to be as good a friend to
the child, as you have been to the
mother ; and in after years, should people
try to fling stones at my memory for
what I have done, you will be able to
clear me in my child's eyes."

Oh, don t talk so," pleaded Marie, her
tears springing forth.

Hush," Cecily said, " I have no time
to spare. If all goes well, and nothing
happens to me, I shall have done no
harm in telling you, and if things are
the reverse way, it will be a great
comfort to me to know I have told
you. Don't cry, Marie. I don't want to
die. When I think that ere very long
I hope to feel clinging baby arms about
me, I long to live. I did not want to

live till I thought of that, and now I long
for the moment when I shall feel a soft,
nestling thing in my arms, that will take
away all my cares and pain, and bring
such joy, such peace into my heart. Now,
Marie listen to me carefully, and when you
don't understand me tell me, and I will
explain," and in a few words Cecily told
the story of her having concealed her
real parentage from her husband, how he
had discovered it, and how she had fled
to escape his anger. She did not mention
who her mother was, but simply
that she had been an actress, and she
had told Sir Herbert differently when she
married him.

With no protestations of sincerity, but
with a calm manner that showed she was to
be trusted, Marie, when the story was ended,
gave her mistress her word to look after
the babe from the hour of its birth till
her own death ; and then, at a sign from

p 2

her mistress, began making preparations
for the start to the theatre ; and at last
appeared ready dressed with Cecily's fur
cloak, and close-fitting cap and veil.

I have called a cab miladi," she said.
I thought you were already too fatigued
to walk, missing your afternoon sleep
and all."

They drove up in silence, alighting at
the stage entrance. Marie held aside the
swing door for Cecie to pass through.

Good evening. Any letters? " she asked
of the doorkeeper.

No, ma'am ; not to-night. A parcel
came for you, which I sent to your
dressing-room. But two gentlemen came
to-day and asked for your address."

My address ! What did you say ? "
she asked quickly.

I asked who they was, and as they
seemed to hesitate, I told them I wasn't
allowed to give none of the ladies' addresses.

Then one says lie was your brother, and
you was expecting him. So I says, * That
won't do,' I says. 'Mrs. Maitland is a
very particular lady, and don't like people
a folio win' her.' So I says, ' If you really
are her brother, and wants to see her,'
I says, ' I'll call the manager ; he happens
to be in just now, and he can use his
own discretion about giving you the
address. I'm forbid to, and should lose
my place if I did,' I says. So with
that they laughed, and said they would
not be after troubling the manager ; but
would call again this evening when you
was here. So I told them if they did they
would have to wait till the performance
was over, and then, if they came inside of
the door, they'd have to see the manager
afore they could see you, as he would not
have his ladies worried. So they says
something about a douce of a lot of
trouble, and away they went ; and half-an-hour

after comes the parcel, which it
is my belief is flowers, from these same
young gentlemen."

"You're a very good fellow to have
been so firm about it," Cecie said, putting
a shilling into his hand.

Only my duty, ma'am ; only my duty,"
he answered as he pocketed the douceur
he had expected.

Along a dark passage, with one side
open to the under part of the stage, and
looking a perfect chaos of beams, supports,
ropes, and pulleys, up a rickety flight
of stairs and across the back of the stage
went Cecie ; getting little or no respect
paid her by the busy scene shifters and
carpenters who were getting the scenery
ready to set, the moment that — as a rule —
odious exhibition of romping and vulgarity
the farce — was over.

Down at the wings to the opposite
prompt to have a peep at the farce, see

how far it had gone and calculate how
much time she had to dress, then up the
stage again, pausing a moment to speak to
the prompter while he worked the rain —
split peas in an iron cylinder — and then
down a tiny, narrow, dark staircase to her
dressing-room, where Marie had already
laid out the first dress, spread the toilet,
arranged the " make-up," and was waiting
orders.

I wonder whether the general public
have any idea of the dens from which the
brotherhood of the sock and buskin issue
forth to their nightly triumphs, so
perfectly dressed, so fresh and trim in
appearance.

Many people I daresay, if they think
at all, fancy they are comfortable rooms,
like one's own bed-room. They would be
rather desillusionne could they look into
half the theatres and see the tiny, dirty,
comfortless, badly-ventilated rooms, from

which the talent issues forth which brings
grist to the manager's mill.

The only comfort to be found in dressing-rooms
is that they are well lighted. Nine-tenths
of them have no carpet, or an apology
for one. A broad dresser or shelf running all
the way round ; a washhand-basin and jug
propped on a corner of the dresser, a chair,
and, in the case of the leading lady, a large
looking-glass, and the furniture of the room
is complete. Very little for use, and
nothing for ornament, does a dressing-room
contain. It certainly seems strange
that the people who bring all the money
to the house should have their comfort so
utterly disregarded, and when they come
off the stage, perhaps a little exhausted
with their efforts, they should have no
better place to go and re-invigorate themselves
for their next entrance, but a tiny
cupboard with two or three gases flaring

away, and often no window or outlet of any
description to let off the bad air.

The green-room is often dirtier and more
comfortless than the dressing-rooms, and
in many theatres converted into a kind of
extra property-room, and half filled with
lumber.

Of course there are exceptions to every
rule, but the green-room and dressing-rooms
described would answer for more
than two-thirds of the theatres in the
kingdom.

Cecie had no need to hurry, for she did
not make her appearance till nearly the
end of the first scene. At last she was at
the side waiting for her cue, and Marie
with her, holding a looking-glass, puff, and
a glass with Liebig in it, which Cecie
sipped each time she came off.

At last her cue came, and Marie having
taken the shawl in which she was wrapped,

and given one final touch to her dress, she
stepped forth on to the stage.

The occupants of the stage-box had been
waiting impatiently for Mrs. Maitland to
appear, but even when she did, and
after the burst of applause which greeted
her entrance had subsided, and they had
time to look at her, they could not say
positively that it was Cecie. The dark hair
had changed her utterly, and completely
baffled them.

The figure and the expression when she
smiled seemed like Cecily ; and yet there
was a tone in the voice, a look on the
face in repose, that were certainly not
Cecily's. Both tone and look had come to
her in her days of sorrow and remorse since
she left her home ; no wonder they were
new to them.

Challoner had declined to come, saying
he did not know Lady Mainwaring well
enough to recognise her, so there were

only the four men in the box. Sir Herbert —
her own husband — could not identify her,
and they sat silently watching for some
sign which would make them certain.

Mrs. Maitland seemed far more lovely
than Cecily Mainwaring ; her beauty was
so spirituelle, and Cecily had always been
of the robust, healthy type, though always
of refined style.

Her acting was superb, she held the
house by a magnetic chain ; from the
moment she entered till the end of the
first act there was a breathless stillness,
only broken by some well-merited applause
for one or other of the players ; but when
the curtain fell on the act, there arose a
mighty clamour, such a call for Mrs.
Maitland as might well have stirred an
older heart with pleasurable pride.

Smiling and bowing she came forward,
showing in her face the pleasure she felt ;
but instead of crossing the stage, she merely

bowed and withdrew again, thereby saving
passing close before the stage-box in which
sat her husband.

Was that design, do you think ? " Sir
Herbert asked.

No, I think not," Geoffrey replied.
** She must have been tired with that last
little bit, and spared herself any extra bit
of walking."

It was indeed so. Notwithstanding Mr.
Wilmore assuring her she was excelling
herself, Cecie felt as though it were impossible
to continue. She had not noticed the
occupants of the stage-box ; her heart was
thoroughly in her work, and besides she
felt too ill to look about, even had she
been inclined.

The curtain rose again, the piece progressed,
and concluded without any one of
the four men having come to a definite
conclusion. They dared not go to the

stage-door and wait for her coming out,
in case it should not be Cecily after all.

There was another call for Mrs. Maitland
as the curtain fell on the last act. It was
not responded to. A few seconds elapsed,
and the applause and cries got louder and
more imperative. The curtain quivered,
moved, was pushed aside, and Cecie, pale
and trembling, appeared before the
audience.

She seemed exhausted, and leaned
heavily on her conductor. She moved
slowly across the stage, trying her best to
smile and appear at her ease. As she
neared their box something at last struck
Sir Herbert. He felt convinced it was
she, and starting to his feet, leaned far
out of the box to look at her.

The sudden movement attracted Mrs,
Maitland's attention. She looked towards
the box, and stood for one moment gazing

straight into the eyes of her husband.
Then with a cry she sank down senseless.

A swift movement, a leap, and a gentleman
from the stage-box alighted on the
stage, and lifting her tenderly in his arms,
bore her away.

It was Sir Herbert.

PEACE.

Miss Ainsworthy was reading in her
sanctum. Her shapely figure was folded
in a soft delicate-tinted dressing-gown, that
fell around her in graceful flowing curves,
her long brown hair unbound and falling
over her shoulders.

As she sat back in her chair, the strong
light of the reading-lamp falling full on
her face, showed how severely the last few
months had tried her. The fine eyes wore
a pained expression, a mute appeal for
sympathy, such as one sees in the clear
sad eyes of a dog. The whole face had a

graver look than of yore, and in place of
its usual calm serenity, a look of deep-seated
pain.

All the household were in bed. Miss
Ainsworthy might stay up reading to what
hour she pleased ; but everyone else, from
the head mistress to the kitchen maid, must
retire when eleven struck, or she would
know the reason why ; and Mabel Ains-worthy
was a woman who would not be
lightly disobeyed, and for all her pleasantness
could administer a good sound scolding
when occasion demanded.

It was past twelve, when suddenly her
reading was broken in upon by the clanging
of the door-bell. She was not a woman
who cared in the least for midnight alarms.
She just glanced up from her book.

' A run-away ring," she thought, and
went on with her reading.

Another peal of the bell, louder this
time.

'' The policeman ! Those stupid servants
have left a window open," and leaving her
room, she crossed the hall to the street-door.


A man's shadow fell across the glass at
the side of the door ; the hat was an
ordinary one, not a policeman's helmet.
Miss Ainsworthy thought it behoved her to
be cautious, so returning to her room she
rang a bell that was hung in her maid's
room, just over her bed, which never failed
to wake her, and then went back to the
street-door, which she unbolted and opened
on the chain.

Who's there ? " she asked.

The man standing on the steps called
out in agitated tones,

Does Miss Ainsworthy live here ? "

'' Yes, I am Miss Ainsworthy ; what do
you want with me at this time of night ? "

"Open the door, and let me speak to
you.

VOL. II. Q

"Most certainly not. Tell me your
business, and I will let you in."

** I cannot tell you my business standing
here."

Then wait a few minutes," Mabel said
quietly, and shutting the door, went to the
foot of the stairs, and met the maid
descending, looking half-dazed, half-asleep,
holding her lamp — which was happily one
of the safety benzolines — upside down.

'' Go and call James, and be quick. Tell
him to come here ; there's a man at the
front-door who wants to come in."

Off flew the maid, wide awake now,
and only too thankful to get out of the
hall, lest the man — who could be no one
but a murderer — should squeeze himself
through the keyhole and devour her.

In two minutes up came James, looking
sleepy and cross ; behind him the page,
mouth and ears wide open, yearning for

something horrible to happen ; and, in the
extreme background at vanishing point, the
maid, her lamp dimly showing her frightened
face.

Now go and open the door."

James obeyed. He would have liked to
grumble had he dared, but was obliged to
suppress his wrath at the moment, though
doubtless he pommelled the page when safely
out of his mistress' sight.

The man on the doorstep, tired of
waiting, rushed precipitately into the hall,
towards Miss A ins worthy ; the maid
shrieked, the page gave a whoop of
delicious anticipation, and James, delighted
to be able to vent his ill-temper on somebody,
swung round and collared the intruder.

Here, don't do that. Miss Ainsworthy,
I am Geoffrey Tremayne, Herbert Main-waring's
brother. "Will you come to Cecie ?
We fear she is dying."

Q 2

*' She is found then ? " Mabel exclaimed,
forgetful of the presence of the servants.

"Yes. Can 1 speak to you privately''

Come into this room. Bring some
wine and biscuits, James. Louise, get
my things ready to go with this gentleman.
I will come to you in a moment ;
and you Charles, go to bed this minute.
What do you mean by coming upstairs
when you were not called ? Go to bed at
once, and don't let me see you again
to-night."

The page disappeared precipitately, horribly
disgusted at the tame turn affairs
had taken ; and James and Louise departed
on their errands.

Miss Ainsworthy turned back into her
sanctum ; and in a few hurried words Mr.
Tremayne told her the story of the finding
of Cecie, and how she had been so long
before she recovered from the fainting fit,
and that when they got her home she

seemed so terribly ill they sent for a
doctor ; that he shook his head and looked
grave, and they all feared she was dying.
She had been asking for Miss Ainsworthy,
and Geoffrey begged her to be quick and
accompany him. His cab was a few doors
farther up, as he had a difficulty in
finding the right number.

Leaving him while she hurried away
to dress, Mabel soon returned ready for
the start, and with all possible speed
they hastened back to Cecily's rooms.

As she passed through the sitting-room,
Mabel was only conscious of seeing several
gentlemen there, but did not recognise
anyone, as Marie hurried her into the
bed-room, closing the door behind her.

To the watchers in the sitting-room the
time seemed interminable. The second
doctor Sir Herbert had sent for, arrived,
and was ushered into the silent room.
Another long, long interval, and at last

as the clock was on the stroke of four,
the door of communication opened, and
Marie's tear-stained face appeared. Beckoning
Sir Herbert she laid a bundle gently
in his arms, and stood by weeping
silently.

Sir Herbert looked wonderingly at the
roll of flannel, as though uncertain what
it could be ; till Marie opened the folds,
and showed him a tiny, frail little form,
from which as the light touched its eyes,
a faint wail emanated.

Tears were in his eyes as he gazed at
the tiny thing, and the others gathered
round him.

"A little heir Sir Herbert," was all
Marie could say.

"The mother?" he asked. Ere Marie
could answer, a gentle hand was laid on
his arm, and Mabel's kind voice said,

You must take this little life for hers,
and cherish it for her sake."

She is not " he stammered, turning

ghastly pale, and trembling so much, that
Marie hastily took the precious bundle
from him.

No," Mabel answered, " but, I entreat
you be calm — she cannot live through the
night, she knows you are here, and has
been asking for you. Go to her ; but I
beg you to control yourself, else you will
excite her, and the poor child may betaken
from you without the forgiveness
for which she craves."

Slowly he entered the chamber of death,
softly he closed the door, and approached
the bed whereon lay the wife he had never
loved.

Over that parting scene a veil should
be drawn ; but when later on the others
were one by one admitted, there was a
smile of radiant happiness on Cecie's worn
face, which was faintly reflected on Sir
Herbert's, as he sat beside her, holding

in his arms the tiny life she had given
him.

Then Geoffrey Trcmayne went to call
Sir Hugh ; he had begged earnestly that
she might know him before she died.

Miss Ainsworthy met him at the door
as he entered ; a silent look of recognition
was all they gave, and Sir Hugh passed on
and stood beside the bed.

He waited silently till Cecie became
conscious of another presence, and taking
her eyes from her husband's face, gazed at
him steadfastly a moment, and then said
faintly, trying to smile at him,

'uncle Hugh!"

He knelt beside her, and, taking her
hand, said gently,

Not Uncle Hugh, my child. Call me
once by my right name — Father."

Cecie half-raised herself, and looked
intently at him.

Tell me. My mother — was not Aunt
Helen ? "

Yes, my child. Aunt Helen is your
mother, and my wife."

Thank God'' she murmured faintly.
I feared so much — now I am so happy.
Kiss me, my father," and she lay back
once more on her pillows, her eyes wandering
to their old resting-place — her
husband's face.

Sir Hugh never forgot the smile of happiness
that spread over Cecie's face as she
whispered the word so sweet to him —
*^ Father."

Another hour and all was over ; husband
and wife had but been united to part once
more ; but on Sir Herbert's face a new light
was shining as he clasped the infant
in his arms, and turned sadly from the
room of death. In his heart there was a
prayer for strength to guide and guard

rightly the young life entrusted to him,
and to cherish it as entirely as he had
neglected her who had given it him ; and
in after years this silent heart-prayer bore
noble fruit.

The sun was high in the heavens when
Mabel Ainsworthy, pale and haggard from
her long night's watching, prepared to leave
the house.

She had hardly given a thought to Sir
Hugh ; the time was not one for thoughts
of self, but now that there was nothing
more to be done, the old pain came gnawing
at her heart again.

Why had he gone away and made no
sign ?

Now, as she turned into the street, she
heard someone follow her quickly, and
looking up with the intention of saying
something civil about not needing an
escort, she met Sir Hugh's deep earnest
eyes fixed on her.

"Mabel!" he said.

A dead faintness came over her, try as
she would she could not speak to him,
could not meet his eyes.

He on his side had been doubting all,
when he saw her moving about so deftly
and quietly, a veritable ministering angel.
Doubting all, and saying in his heart that
it could not have been true what Challoner
affirmed ; that this one — of all women, was
pure and true. He thought when he could
speak to her and gaze into her face he
should read the truth ; and now, when she
trembled and paled before him, and could
not meet his eyes, he took it for a sign
of guilt, that, having vowed to be faithful
to him even though they were parted, she
was afraid to meet him, ashamed to look
him in the face.

''I had hoped never to have seen you
more," he went on sternly, 'never again
to look on the false face that has shattered

all the new found faith I had in women.
Having met — for the memory of the past,
I could not let you go without a word ;
but I tell you I now bid you good-bye forever,
without regret, and yet when I saw
you again to-night I felt I must clasp your
hand once more. And now," taking her
passive hand in his, *' good-bye for ever."

He paused, waiting, hoping, fearing,
longing for her to speak. She seemed fora
moment as though she would have fallen
to the ground, but with a great effort
controlling herself, pointed to a passing
cab, saying only,

'that cab."

Sir Hugh called and having placed her
in it, would have moved away ; but she
made a gesture to him to stop, and leaning
forward said in low, husky tones,

Have you been to your chambers yet ?"

He waited a moment, angry with her for
asking such a trivial question ; and then,

fancying he saw her drift, and that she had
sent a letter there trying to explain and
smooth things away, he said harshly,

''No, I am going there this morning ; but
the letter I shall find there can make not
the slightest difference in our relations. I
know all, and what the letter contains
also."

Then may Heaven help me," she said,
falling back in the corner; and as the
cab drove rapidly away, he caught sight
of a white despairing face.

Her words haunted him as he strode
away back to the hotel. The look in her
eyes kept coming back to him, do what he
would. And then that cry of hers !

What did she mean ? It must be more
than a plea for forgiveness, and yet what
else could it be ? He half made up his
mind not to go near his chambers to fetch
the letter, arguing that if she looked on it
as of such importance, it must be one that

she had expended all her energies over in
the writing, and which would most probably
make him very uncomfortable if he did
read it.

No, he would not go. And then back
came her words and her look. He could
stand it no longer; he would call at the
chambers on his way to the hotel, get the
letter, and take it back with him to read
when he was rested ; and then he would beat
rest, and find out for himself if there
was anything out of the ordinary in that
haunting tone and look, or if he only
noticed it from being tired out.

LIKE C^SAKS WIFE.

What a comfortable thing it would be for
many of us if, in our times of great affliction,
we could only follow the example of
heroines in fiction, and gain oblivion for
the time of all that was going on around.

'' Enter Tilburina, mad — in white satin —
enter her maid, mad — in white linen — "

What a pleasant thing to be able to give
way utterly, and ramp about, and rave,
and twine straw in your hair, and refuse
to eat. Half the pain in these latter
enlightened days is the keeping it in,
hiding the grief to prevent yourself being
too offensive to your unhappy relations.

To let

Concealment,
Like the worm i' the bud,
Feed on the damask cheek.

That is the hard task. To go about as
though nothing had happened, with your
heart hot within you and wrung with
anguish, and scalding tears ready to gush
forth, if only they dare be let flow.

This was Mabel Ainsworthy's case. The
morning's routine had to be gone through,
and she must appear the calm, serene
mistress in the eyes of her pupils.

She honored to take the rest she so much

o

needed, but dared not, knowing well the
haunting demons that would seize her for
their prey the moment her door was closed
on the world, and she was alone and in
their power.

At last there was no further excuse for
her to linger in the schoolroom, and she
was forced to go to her own room.

She sat down at her writing-table, her
white hands lying listless and idle in her
lap, her eyes fixed on vacancy, and her
thoughts so far away that she never heard
the unclosing of the door, or noticed the
entrance of Sir Hugh Stapylton.

He stood a moment gazing at her, at
the white face, the heavy rings round the
eyes, and then said softly,

'mabel!"

*who spoke?" she cried, starting to
her feet, trembling.

Then, as he approached her, she drew
herself to her full height, and with all the
proud passionate blood of her race mantling
in her cheek, she said,

I should have thought Sir Hugh,
that after our conversation of the morning,
a visit from you was superfluous."

"I have come to you because of this;"
he said quietly, laying before her the
letter she had written that memorable,

VOL. II. R

miserable day after her return from
Westham. " I despise myself for coming,
and yet, if it were possible that anything
cour restore my happiness — I have suffered
too much to let this letter pass unheeded."

He spoke brokenly. He did indeed
despise himself for going near her after
all that had happened, and yet he had a
lurking hope that she might possibly be
able to give some explanation of that
abominable telegram. For to that matter
only did he fancy the letter alluded.

Challoner's words of the night before
had struck him strangely. What did he
mean by "returning to spoil everything,"
and that scandalising was all he had had
to " content him " ? There was evidently
something more in the whole matter than
he had at first thought ; and when, after
the meeting with Mabel he had fetched
her letter from his chambers and perused
it, the hope grew up in his heart that

after all she might be able to offer some
explanation, particularly, when he saw
the date on her letter was about the
same time as the date of his leaving
England. He neither trusted Challoner,
nor believed all he said, he remembered
the past ; but still he also remembered
how Challoner had vowed to have his
revenge, when at that time long ago, he
had foiled him.

He remained for some hours in a state
of indecision, and at last called a hansom
and drove to Miss Ainsworthy's to do
his best to sift the matter through.

Mabel broke the silence that had lasted
several painful minutes.

I wonder," she said bitingly, " that so
proud a man as you, should condescend
to take his release from the hands of a
woman he has not scrupled to insult a few
hours back."

'' Take my release ! " he answered

R 2

wondering ; " I don't understand you.
If you will, you can relieve my mind of the
bitter burden it has borne these last few
weeks."

Has it only galled you then for a few
weeks ? I thought I could release you from
the bondage of years."

He advanced a step towards her, a light
springing in his eyes.

'tell me " he began; but she

silenced him with a gesture, and going to
her writing-table, unlocked a drawer, and
after a few moments' search, drew out a
small packet of letters. These she placed
in his hands, saying quietly,

'' It was to give you these that I wrote
the letter summoning you here ; now, I
think, all further conversation is unnecessary,
and " she waved towards the

door.

He took up his hat, gazing curiously at
the packet of letters in his hand.

I don't understand how these can concern
me ? " he asked, seeing they were
addressed to Richard Challoner.

They concern you so far that, it seems
to me, they render you a free man."

What ? " he cried, and setting down
his hat, regardless of her intimation, he
murmured hurriedly : " AVith your permission,"
and, drawing one of the letters
from its cover, read it though. Then he
took the next and the next, till he had
mastered them all ; but his hands were
trembling so, he could hardly hold the
paper.

He looked up at her at last, all else
forgotten in the gladness of the moment.

Mabel ! " he cried, '' do you understand
these ? Do you know you have restored
my happiness to me — freed me from the
curse I have so long borne ? Tell me, do
you understand it all ? "

*only partly."

Let me tell you then. See, these letters
are from an Italian addressed to Challoner,
evidently thinking that he was the
husband of Ada Wilmot — Maud Fitz Alley n
offering to rid him of his wife for a handsome
consideration. From the next letter
it would appear Challoner had told him
Ada Wilmot was not his wife, but offered
twenty pounds for the secret, and the Italian
indignantly refuses such a small sum.
There is a lapse of three months between
the next letter. I daresay the man tried
to find the real husband and failed. He
seems in poverty by his manner of writing.
Do you see, Challoner may have the secret
for fifty pounds ; and Challoner evidently
gives it, for here is a receipt attached to
this document — the one which restores to
me^ife, youth, and hope. It certifies
that Ada Wilmot was married to Luigi
Fratelli, March 17th, 1856, and, as she was
not married to me till October, 1862, and

these letters to Challoner were written in
1866, Ada Wilmot is no more my wife than
she is Challoner's. These papers are a
copy of the certificate of her marriage to
Fratelli ; and here — what's this ? oh, a
certificate of Fratelli's death in 1869.
This, then, explains the last letter, written
March, 1869, in which he says he is
starving, and asks Challoner for money.
He evidently did starve, from the certificate.
Challoner must have seen his casein
the paper, and obtained the certificate.
And he has known this fourteen years, and
never told me ! That I can understand,
though I never fancied he was such a
scoundrel as this proves him, though I
knew him to be thoroughly unprincipled.
He has always hated me, because I foiled
him. We were both in love with Ada
Wilmot I believed her to be f^ pure,
good woman ; and when one day I overheard
Challoner arranging to carry her off

from the theatre I was furious, and seeking
her, demanded an explanation. She wept *
and implored me to protect her from him ;
and I, believing her to be all she appeared,
resolved to be champion, at the same time
make Challoner ridiculous. I told one
or two fellows about it, and got them to
assist me. Enlisting the doorkeeper of
the theatre she was at — on our side, we
smuggled a slim young fellow about Ada
Wilmot's height in at the stage-door ;
wrapped him in the skirt and long cloak
she usually wore, and, with a wig and her
hat on, he really did not look unlike her.
Challoner was waiting outside, and seeing
the familiar cloak and hat thought it was
Ada Wilmot, and, bowing, offered to take
her home in his brougham ; without a word
the supposed Ada stepped in, and the
coachman, who was one of my own servants,
drove rapidly off to an hotel, where all the
men who were in the plot were waiting

for him. His rage was boundless when, the
wig and cloak being thrown aside, he saw
what a fool he had been made ; and when
an hour later, after seeing Ada Wilmot safe
to her lodgings, I joined them, he swore
he would be even with me. Challoner is
a man who never forgives being made
ridiculous. The end soon followed. I
suppose, acting by his advice, Ada Wilmot
declared I had compromised her, and wept
and wailed till I married her, and now —
all the misery has rolled away like a horrid
dream, and I am free."

All seemed forgotten in the moment's
happiness. Mabel stretched out her hands
and clasping his, said fervently,

'' Oh Hugh ! I am so glad, so glad."
He moved as though he would have
taken her in his arms, then suddenly drew
back and paced the room rapidly ; at last
he came and stood beside her, his face
stern and gloomy.

Mabel," he said constrainedly, " I
hardly know in what terms to couch my
gratitude to you for the great service you
have done me. The proofs lie here before
me that Ada Wilmot is not my wife, I
will see that they are substantiated, but
I feel it my duty to ask you now to be
my wife."

With a start, she remembered the scene
of the morning.

This morning you called me false, and
now you ask me to be your wife. You
have thought fit to doubt me, and we are
parted for ever," she said proudly.

You say that as calmly as though it
would not pain you in the least."

*' Why should it ? "

If not, why did you sell yourself to
gain these ? " he said, touching the pile of
papers on the table.

**I do not understand you."

Mabel, you can't deceive me now.

Remember I know all, everything, and
holding this knowledge, I yet ask you
to be my wife ; though not as I once
hoped to do, happy in the thought of
your truth and fidelity — even to me, who
had deceived you."

What can you mean ? " Miss Ains-worthy
asked, her face ashen white.

** Oh Mabel ! why do you thus fence
with me. If we are ever to be more to
each other, I beg you to drop this acting,
acknowledge what you cannot deny, and
then let us forget the past. I ask you
again to be my wife. I cannot offer you
my love ; that you have forfeited."

Why, why ! " she asks passionately ;
then adds, '' Was your thraldom then
so sweet to you, that you speak to me
thus for freeing you ? I, who have waited
and watched hour by hour for your
return, and grieved at the cruel silence
I could not understand. Is it to me you

say, ' I ask you to be my wife as the
reward you were scheming for ' ? Do you
think I would accept you on such terms ?
The time you have been abroad has made
you forget me strangely."

'would to God it had effaced the
memory of your perfidy."

My perfidy I I do not understand
you in the least."

*' You soon shall," he said, coming
close to her, and laying his hand on her
arm ; " you are trying to discover how
much I know, I tell you I know all."

And what is that ' all ' ? " she asked,
her lips curling.

*the means by which you obtained
these papers."

Her face flushed, and then paled, and
her lips trembled as she said the one
word,

Well ! "

For answer, he drew from his pocket

the telegram that had crushed out all
his happiness, the message from Richard
Challoner :

** Sorry can't dine with you tomorrow,

as Mabel A is here. This between

ourselves."

Mabel read it through with dilated
eyes.

It is false," she said, *' cruelly, wickedly
false."

I wish I could think so," he said,
fervently.

"Was it this that caused you to go
away without one word ? "

"This, and this only."

"It is not true, indeed ; it is false from
beginning to end."

"Give me proof; tell me you never
were at Westham, that you did not get
these papers from Challoner."

Mabel paused, and then said firmly,

I cannot. I was there, and I did get

the papers from Challoner ; but yet this is
not true."

All you say but tends to verify it," he
said coldly. ** You were at Westham,
you did get the papers from him ; to me
this telegram seems true enough."

Miss Ainsworthy paced the room slowly
and thoughtfully. Sir Hugh flung himself
into a chair, and looking at her, and
watching the queenly grace of her movements,
wished he could believe her.

Suddenly she stopped in her walk, and
going over to him, stood for one moment
looking intently in his face ; then, dropping
on her knees beside him, clasped his hands
in hers, and said in low, earnest tones,

Oh Hugh, is it possible that you think
I could do this thing ? I can give you no
proof but my word — the word of a woman
who has never lied. Will you not believe
me ? You know — you must know how I

love you ; can you think for one moment
I could care for another ? ''

"Mabel, if you could only tell me you
did not go there with him," he said, raising
her, and placing her in the chair. Then he
broke forth, '* Darling, no matter what the
truth is, I cannot shut you out of my life.
My heart is wrung with the thought that
you are not the pure-minded woman I
worshipped, and yet at this moment I love
you more madly than ever."

He folded her in his arms, and drew
her head on to his shoulder. There
was a long silence broken at last by his
murmuring,

"Mabel let us forget the past, and be
happy in the future."

No Hugh," she answered softly, " herein
the shelter of your arms, with my head
on your breast, I feel that I can tell you
all. Richard Challoner sent me a telegram,

saying you were ill at Westham — dying,
I feared. Without a thought of there
being any foul play, I started off, to find
that you had never been near the place,
and that it was all a cruel trick of his
to part us. Nothing but the thought of
you being dangerously ill would have
made me obey a summons from Richard
Challoner. When I found it all out I
was furious, and — dear one, I have said
I would tell you all — he did speak of love
to me. You know how I would reply.
Then he spoke of my love for you, and at
last told me about those papers. He told
me he had them with him, and that, if I
chose, he would give them to me. Darling,
forgive me, but then for your sake I
appeared to listen to him ; for your sake I
suffered his hateful lips to touch mine.
Oh, don't shrink from me Hugh ! it was so
hard to endure that I was punished enough.
And then, feeling quite content, he left me

to order some dinner, and I stole the letters
and fled."

There was silence, she rested in his arms
waiting for some sign from him, but none
came. At last she raised her lead and
looked into his face. It was stern and
cold.

*' Oh Hugh, do you not believe me ! "

*'I am trying to."

'' Only trying to ! "

Her face grew white again, the flush of
hope had died away, she withdrew herself
from his arms. He tried to restrain
her.

*' Let us forget it all. Be my wife, and
let the past be the past," he said.

"No Hugh, never. So long as there is
a doubt of me in your mind I will never
be your wife. I see you have so little
faith in me that you cannot even believe
my word ; so the only thing to do is to
say good-bye — for ever. There could be

VOL. II. s

no happiness for me unless I knew you
trusted me. I have given you all my love,
Hugh, and in return I must have all yours,
or nothing."

'you have all my love," he answered.

All your love, maybe ; but not your
faith, nor your respect. Hugh, there are
three kinds of love that must go together
to make the one perfect love that alone is
worth having. The love of the eye, the
heart, and the mind. Two of these are
mine, but ere I accept one I must have
the entire trinity. Can you tell me that
your mind, your nobler self, does not shrink
from a union with a woman you distrust,
and cannot honour ? I would rather die
than hang such a millstone round your
neck, as such a marriage would be."

"Mabel," he cried, ''I cannot, will not
be parted from you, only let me be with
you and I will believe anything."

You insult me, Hugh," she said gently.
Till I can prove what I have told you, we
must never voluntarily meet. Your love
for me shall never become the base passion
you would degrade it to. When I can
prove to you that I am blameless, will bethe
time for you to speak of love."

Are there no proofs ? " he asked, despairingly.


None," she answered. " Stay, I remember
I wrote to you the moment I
returned to this house. Where is the
letter ? it may be of some use to us. I
will not send for James, or he could tell
you about taking the letter to the club
that very evening, nor for the maid who
travelled down with me. The proof must
be found without letting the servants into
all our most private matters."

Sir Hugh fetched the letter from amongst
the papers on the table.

**No/' he said, scanning it, "this is no
help to us, there is not the slightest
mention in it of Challoner or Westham."

Mabel took it from him. Suddenly
her face lighted up.

Give me the telegram," she said,
with trembling eagerness. After looking
at it a moment, she said : '* Here is a
proof, Hugh. Look at this. The telegram
was sent out at 6 p.m., and here on
my letter is Wednesday, 16th, 6.30 p.m.
The dates are the same are they not ? "

"Yes," he answered.

Then there is plenty of proof if you
will but receive it. Half-an-hour after
that telegram was sent out, I was in
my own house writing this very letter
to you."

There was a silence, a deep, long silence ;
then from Sir Hugh came the one word,

"Forgive."

And from Mabel, as she laid her hands
in his, only a low murmur of,

Dearest, I forgive you freely ; had
you not loved me as deeply, you would
not have felt thus strongly."

A FEW days later Maud FitzAlleyn, seated
working in the garden of the pretty little

French town of X , saw Lyn coming

towards her with a letter.

"From Hugh' she said, 'shall I read
it to you ? " and as Maud acquiesced, she
broke the seal and read :

I have at last discovered everything,
and know the disgraceful deception
practised upon me for so many years.
Be thankful that I do not intend punishing
you as you so richly deserve. For

the future I will not render you the
slightest assistance ; from this moment you
pass out of my life, and more especially
so, as, from your plots, you have removed
the only being who could have softened
me towards you. Cecily Mainwaring is
dead ; killed by you as surely as though
your hand had done the deed.

"Hugh Stapleton''

Au Teste. Dick Challoner wisely went
abroad and kept out of the way till Sir
Hugh was married, and he hoped his anger
would be softened in his new-found
happiness. Sir Hugh, out of the fulness
of his joy, forgave him, so Dick goes on
sinning and smiling, and will continue
to do so while he has a limb above ground.
After Louise's marriage with Darrell
D'Eyncourt, he felt all responsibilities
removed from his shoulders, and I believe
grows younger daily.

Mrs. D'Eyncourt and Mabel are great
friends, and Mabel is one of the happiest
women in town, and ber house the most
popular ; so much so, that the arch plotters,
Mrs. Weed, Mrs. Treholme, and Mrs.
Ch^lloner, are very glad that after all,
their machinations came to nothing.

THE END.

^

Charles DICKENS AND EVANS, Crystal PALACE PRESS,
