^'m

\

\

\

THAT OTHER PERSON

BY

MRS ALFRED HUNT

AUTHOR OF ' THORNICROFT's MODEL ' ' THE LEADEN CASKET ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


the right of translation is reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

Chaplet PAGE
I. WHOM ARE TOU EXPECTING? 1

II. A YELLOW FOG 32

III. THE DUTY OP A SCHOOLBOY 49

IV. THE SECOND Master's WIPES PEW . . . . 75

V. A BIT OP WHITE PAPER 101

YI. THE LITTLE BROWN MAN . . . . . . 127

Til. Philip Arnold's dress 159

Vin. OLD Catch U5

IX. WHEN DOES THE POST GO OUT .^ . . . .211

X. WHAT HAS TO BE WILL BE 236

XI. I WISH YOU HAD SEEN HIM 262

XII. ON THE BLACK BOX 290

CHAPTER L

WHOM ARE YOU EXPECTING?

Was man in der Nugent wainscot hat man im Alter der
Fille. — Goethe.

It is barely a mile from a well-known centre
of fashion, and yet it is one of the most unfashionable
parts of London. Step by step as
you approach it, you become aware that you
are drawing nearer to a quarter inhabited by
those to whom fortune rarely comes with both
hands full. The trees by the road-side disappear
; the pavement shrinks to half its former
dimensions ; the road itself does the same ; the
sumptuous soup-tureens which have hitherto
imparted such grace and dignity to the summits
of the houses of the upper classes cease to

VOL. I. B

delight the eyes ; balconies and stone facings
are the next things to be cut off; and at last,
when you reach Lome Gardens you find 
occupying the very smallest plot of
ground on which it is possible for a ' genteel
residence ' to stand. There are five-and-thirty
houses in Lome Gardens, and they are tall,
grey, and dismal-looking, will are exactly alike.
You see that they are ugly, and you feel that
they are uncomfortable. And yet they have
such a pretty, tantalising name ! What would
one not expect from Lome Gardens ? Scotland,
and Scott, and pleasant wanderings far away
from brick and mortar come into our minds at
once. It is riot an absolute fiction to call them
gardens, for behind each house is a strip of
ground some thirty feet by fifteen, enclosed by
rather high brick walls, and for the most part
occupied by wooden posts intended to support
lines of cord to dry the family linen. Few wash
at home in Borne Gardens, and yet there are
always two or three houses where dingy inflated
garments flutter about hour after hour, and blight

the happiness of all living near who have any
aspirations towards gentility. For the residents
in Lome Gardens, though they have no carved
stone soup-tiu'eens on the tops of their houses, no
balconies, no heavy stucco facings, no gently
graduated flight of steps leading up to their front
doors, no power of saying that they live in a
highly select neighbourhood — seeing that only a
few doors off they can find their butcher, baker,
green grocer, and even a pawnbroker — cling
fondly to gentility, and look with no favour on
people with large families of children who do
their own washing, and otherwise ' let down '
the neighbourhood.

On a certain afternoon in the beginning of
February a girl was sitting in the drawing-room
of Number Five. That is to say, it was the
drawing-room if you liked to call it so ; for if
you preferred to say dining-room, there was no
reason to suppose you were doing wrong, since
it was one of two rooms each furnished pretty
much alike, and only divided by folding-doors.
She was sitting in an easy chair near the

B 2

window, not looking out, not employed in anyway,
but sitting there with eyes fixed vacantly
on the street. An open book lay on her lap,
but certainly not because she had any desire to
read. Two of her sisters were in the room
with her. They were doing their utmost to
cut out some articles of apparel by the help of
paper patterns from a second-rate ladies' newspaper.
Their hearts were in their work, but
their hearts were not happy, for there was not
quite enough material to make the garments
required, and no changing about or turning up
or down of the various parts of the pattern

would ensure success.
«

It does seem such an awful pity ! ' said one.

It's the most vexatious nuisance I ever
knew ! ' said the other ; • and then they glanced
at their sister, who was still sitting by the
window, neither seeing nor caring for any of
their troubles.

'I say, Polly, some people take things
mighty easy ! ' exclaimed one of them, with a
smile.

Yes, indeed they do, Aggy,' replied the
other, with a toss of the head.

Josephine did not hear one word that they
said. The two girls who were so busy with
the patterns were of a much coarser mould
than their sister Josephine. Their faces were
broad and round, and though not handsome,
comely — very comely some people thought
them, for they had large clear blue eyes, and
firm-looking and tolerably well-shaped mouths
which disclosed two regular rows of fine white
teeth ; but their crowning glory was that they
both had such masses of beautiful light brown
hair that they might have been taken for
Germans. Josephine's face was delicate in its
lines, and pale in colour. Her eyes were large
and grave-looking when she was at rest as
now, but they seemed to burn when she raised
them to any one's face. Her own face was
rather a sad one, but very beautiful. It was
wonderful to see her sitting there so long in
such perfect stillness. Her sisters were all
activity. They fixed their obstinate bits of

tissue-paper, they unfixed them and altered
their arrangement, knocked over a large box of
pins, giggled, jested, lamented, and went through
the most intricate calculations. Josephine may
have heard something of this, for she frowned
slightly once or twice, but that was aP. Polly
and Agnes wore highly coloured, broadly
marked, large-checked dresses ; hideously ugly
things they were, and the dressmaker had so
contrived them that the checks should form
brilliantly outlined squares round each of their
shoulder-bones.

Josephine's dress was a pretty blue one
with silver buttons, and her closely curling
black hair, though it seemed so carelessly
arranged, was a work of art which was not
produced without time and thought, and in
spite of her absent-mindedness she had not
once injured its appearance by putting up her
hand to thrust it back, as Polly and Agnes
were constantly doing to theirs, until at last
every inch of their foreheads was laid bare.

Do what they might, it was all in vain

The mantles would not let themselves be cut
out without another yard of stuff, and that yard
they did not know how to obtain. At length,
in great vexation, they flung the patterns on
the floor, and then sat down, feeling completely
worsted. Polly, in her despair, began to fan
herself with a fashion-book ; but Agnes, whose
temper was thoroughly ruffled, threw herself
into the same attitude as that in which her idle
sister Josephine was sitting, on which Polly
could not help laughing. On this Josephine
slowly raised her eyes from the ground, and
turned them on her sisters in wonder.

Aggy at once exclaimed, 'Well, what do
you want ? '

I want nothing.'

I suppose you mean that you want nothing
if you are to take the trouble to get it
for yourself ! You are always complaining of
this house, and saying that everything is shabby,
or untidy, or something ; but I never see you
try to make anything better except in your
own bedroom. You have no regulation in

your mind, Zeph. Why don't you either give
up that awful habit of grumbling, or try to do
something ? '

I am neither grumbling nor complaining
now,' replied Zeph rather scornfully.

Not in words, but you are in looks. Do
something, I say. I wonder what you would
think of me and Polly if we were to put on the
best dresses we have and. sit without speaking
a word, as you have done for the last hour or
more ! Do you think that would make things
more comfortable ? '

Yes, I am sure it would. It would be
much more comfortable if you would be silent ;
I do not see why you should speak to me — I
am not interfering with you.'

But why don't you get something to do ? '
reiterated Aggy.

How do you know that I am not doing
something ? '

Zeph, how foolish you are ! ' said Polly.
Come, Aggy, you and I cannot afford to work
hard at sitting still like our eldest sister. Let

US try again. Be quick ; it will soon be
dark.'

I don't see why you need make the room
so untidy when you are working,' said Zeph,
who had suddenly become aware of the state
of things around her. ' Every chair is covered
with your patterns and bits of stuff, and you
seem to have emptied your workbox on the
floor.'

What matter ? Iso one is coming,' said
Polly.

There is no one to see it,' said Aggy.

We see it. Why cannot we have the
pleasure of seeing things in their places ? I
hate disorder. You all seem to think that we
need not care how much confusion there is
unless some one is coming ! '

Oddly enough, as if in prompt confirmation
of this, the door opened, and a middle-aged
lady came in. She was short, slight in figure,
and upright, and had a good-looking face for
her years, but it was rather pale, and its prevailing
expression seemed to be one of gentle

resignation. She was dressed in a very plain
black serge — it was old, too, for there was
many a shining tract on the most exposed surfaces.
Her hair was almost white, and was
smoothly braided and hidden away beneath a
plain cap. She fixed her languid blue-grey
eyes, out of which all radiance had long died
away, on Zeph, and apparently it was the pretty
blue dress which struck her, for she exclaimed,
Whom are you expecting, Zeph ? I didn't
know that any one was coming.'

I am expecting no one,' replied Zeph, with
tears in her eyes. ' Why should you suppose
that I am ? Can't I put on a tidy dress without
being asked if I am expecting some one ?
I like to keep up some kind of decency of
appearance. You need not remind me of our
poverty,' she added vehemently, for she saw
that her mother was about to speak. * I know
we are poor ; how can I possibly forget it ?
But my dress does not cost a bit more than
those hideous checked things Mary and Agnes
are wearing — not one halfpenny more ; only I

hate being a fright when there is no need for it.
I hate untidiness, too, and I don't see why you
let them make everything so uncomfortable
here. Can't they do their cutting-out somewhere
else .^ It is a very hard thing not to
have one room in the house left in such a state
that we can sit in it without feeling degraded ! '
Polly and Aggy, who were good girls in the
main, and very fond of Zeph when they were
not in a bad temper, thought this so absurd
that they could not restrain their laughter.
Mrs. Treherne said, ' Don't talk that way, my
dear Zeph. I like tidiness as much as any one,
but when people are working very hard they
cannot always help showing that they are.
The girls might try to keep things in order, of
course, and I wish they would ; but I am still
more anxious that they should make less noise.
They are moving about and pushing chairs
about, and they are disturbing their poor dear
father frightfully. There must be no more
noise — none whatsoever. That is what I came
upstairs to say ; but, Zeph, if you really are not

expecting any friends to call, I must say that
I think you had better go upstairs and put on
an older dress. That merino will be a handsome
dress all next year if you will but consent
to take care of it, and only put it on when it is
likely to be wanted.'

Zeph rose from her lowly seat, kissed her
mother, whose only fault was that she had
yielded to her surroundings without a struggle,
and silently left the room. She went to her
own little bedroom — an attic with a sloping
roof and one large square skylight — and there
she took off her pretty dress, put on an old
black one, and then sat down on a large box
which was the mainstay of the Treherne family
whenever it went from home. It happened to
be the only seat in the room that was available
there were two chairs, but each was slightly
broken. She hated contention, she hated
poverty ; she liked elegance, grace, and luxury,
and would have liked to lead a happy life,
wearing dainty dresses, reading delightful books,
and never seeing a distasteful sight or hearing

an unsympathetic word. For the last hour or
two she had been wondering how she could
best fit her thoughts and wishes to her circumstances,
or whether it might not be possible
to raise her circumstances to the level of her
thoughts and wishes. Hers were such poor —
such miserably poor circumstances ! Life at
5 Lome Gardens was uncomfortable even for
those who had no desire for elegance or luxury.
Edward Treherne, father of the three girls
whose acquaintance the reader has just made,
was a man of good birth, and a barrister by
education and profession ; but, alas ! the law
had never been more than a profession with
him — he had never earned a penny by the
practice of it. He had married when he was
very young. A small competence had at first
secured him against want, but as time wore
on, and expenses increased, there where dark
moments for the imprudent young man, who,
with three hundred a year for all his wealth,
had taken on himself the task of maintaining a
wife and family. Josephine, Mary, and Agnes

came in quick succession, and finally a son ;
but long before the birth of the latter Mr.
Treherne had learnt to eke out his income
with his pen. Given an adequate amount of
intellect, what more delightful mode of eking
out an income can be imagined? This is
the first thought of most people when they
hear of a man adding to his means by writing ;
but none but those who do write can know
how hardly the bread must be gained which is
earned by struggling to keep the head clear,
judgment calm, and mind open to impressions
in a small, ill-built London house, with noisy,
incompetent servants, squalling young children,
barrel organs, street cries, and all the many
miseries which fall to the lot of a brain worker
under the conditions which fettered Edward
Treherne. He was a very clever man, and
wrote well, but slowly. By some mischance
he had not at first turned his attention to the
kind of literary work which pays, but had
undertaken the task of editing books for a
well-known antiquarian society with barely

money enough at its disposal even to reward
its editors for the labour of transcription. He
had fallen in love with work of this kind, and
succeeded in throwing so much light on everything
he touched that he made himself a name.
He made some money, too, but every hundred
pounds he earned was worked for as if it had
been three or four hundred, and his hard labour
and the urgent need for it had all but completely
isolated him from his own children.
He occupied a room on the ground-floor which
had been intended for the dining-room of the
house. Here he had lived for the last twenty
years, gradually adding new shelves to those
already existing on the walls as his stock of
untidy second-hand books of reference became
larger, and himself growing year by year more
shaggy, unkempt, and limp-looking as year by
year he abandoned himself more entirely to
his work. Sometimes, it is true, this work
obliged him to go from home, to this or that
public record office, or to some old country
house or castle whose owner had at last been

persuaded to yield up to competent inspection
stores of deeds and charters which had hitherto
been zealously sequestrated from all examination.
These are the great occasions of an
antiquary's life, when papers full of historic
interest, as yet unseen by any eye possessed of
insight, are entrusted to his hands, and he
suddenly finds himself reading a letter which
draws a track of light over some obscure
passage in history, and can scarcely believe in
the good fortune which has reserved the discovery
for him. But such opportunities are
rare, and most rare with Edward Treherne, who
spent week after week within the four walls of
his study, with no other exercise than an occasional
stroll up and down his room, shuffling
about in a pair of loose carpet slippers. Could
any one who had seen him when he was the
pride of Magdalen have believed that he would
have degenerated into something so like the
typical fellow of a college of a hundred and
fifty years ago ?

His appropriation of the dining-room had

obliged his family to take their meals in a
small square room at the back of the house,
which, as Mr. Ruskin observes of another room
of the same description, ' commanded a partial
view of the Vater-butt,' and was otherwise well
within range of all the household industries.
It was not an exhilarating dinner-room. Mr.
Treherne rarely joined the family circle either
in this room or in any other. His dinner was
carried into the study to him on a plate, and
sometimes he ate his food while it was hot, but
more frequently he forgot that it was there,
and only remembered it when tormented by
the pangs of hunger, or when his wife ventured
to remind him. The consequence of this
seclusion was that he scarcely knew anything
of his own children, and that they were left to
the management of the woman for whose sake
he had reduced himself to this plight. A good,
kind woman she had always been to him,
serving and loving him with more than the
devotion of a dog to its master. She would
gladly have walked ten miles every day of her
VOL. I. c

life, if by so doing she could have procured
any delicacy to tempt him to show enjoyment
in what he ate. That he never did, and it was
a great grief to her. There was nothing that
she would not have done for him, but there
her self-devotion stopped. She had no idea of
humouring the nonsensical fancies ' of any of
her daughters. According to her theory, they
were nothing more than three able-bodied
young women, to fall back on if she herself
should be ill or prove insufficient to make her
husband's existence comfortable. She did not
see that they had any reason to be discontented.
They had everything girls ought to want while
they were at home. Her own joys were
simple, but none the less real for that. First
there was the consciousness that her husband
could not have endured to live without her.
She rose early every morning of her life,
and herself dusted his room and arranged the
papers, which no one else was allowed to
touch : proudly she fingered them, and liberally
she furnished him with pens and ink and

paper. After breakfast she herself dusted the
sitting-rooms above, lest a heavy-footed servant
should disturb him. Then she went out and
did the shopping, and, not content with that,
herself brought home most of her purchases,
because the house bell disturbed him. That
by no means completed the sum of her services :
all day long she sat with him doing anything
in her power. She copied documents when he
would trust her with the task, looked out
words in the dictionaries for him, or sat for
hours, pen in hand, ready to make any note or
memorandum that might occur to him.

All this time poor Zeph has been left sitting
on her black box in her bedroom, crying till
she made her head ache, because the life that
seemed to be assigned to her was so little to her
taste. 'It is a poor life,' she thought, as she
sat bewailing her lot. ' I can understand the
pleasure of living in a cottage, and having
to keep it clean and work for my daily
bread ; but I hate to live here and get up
morning after morning, knowing that the

c2

largest aim of my existence during each day
will be either to make sixpence do the work of
a shilling when I am buying some small article
of dress, or to save my sixpence altogether ! I
have no duties, for my mother does them all ;
no pleasures — pleasures cost money ; I never
see my father for more than an hour or so. I
never see mother, either, for she is always
running about after him. I never want to see
my sisters, for they are great rough, odious
things ; ' and then poor misguided Zeph once
more dissolved in tears. It was quite dark :
she did not care. It was very cold : she
scarcely knew it. She could not bring herself
to go downstairs. Suddenly she heard a knock
at her door, and Jack, her ten-year-old brother,
came in.

I say, Zeph,' said he cheerily, ' do comedown
: I want you. I have been wanting you
ever so long ! '

It's nice to hear of any one wanting methought
Zeph. ' What did you want me
for?'

Why, to see you, of course ! ' said he ;
why shouldn't I ? '

She made him sit down by her and kissed
him. 'You had Polly and Aggy,' said she
rather jealously ; * why should you want
me?'

Because I do. What's the use of Polly
and Aggy, when their heads are filled with
nothing but clothes ? Tea is ready, Zeph ;
come down.'

'I don't want any tea,' she answered, remembering
all her sorrows.

'Well, but Mrs. Simonds, Frank Simonds'
mother, you know, has got four spare
tickets for a concert, and she wants us to go
with her — we are to go, she says. It begins at
half-past seven, and it will take us more than
twenty minutes to walk. It's in Kensington
Town HalL'

Up jumped Zeph. In a moment she had
forgotten all the miseries of the last hour or
two, and the only regret she felt was that she
had had the trouble of taking off her pretty

blue frock. She ran briskly downstairs with
Jack. The usually dull room in which her
family were assembled seemed bright and warm
and cheerful. Such magic had been wrought
by a present of four sixpenny tickets for a
concert benevolently intended to bring good
music within range of the poor !

CHAPTER 11.

A YELLOW FOG.

A yellow fog, wliicli is the curse of London. I would
hardie take my share of it for a share of its wealth and its
curiosity — a vile double-distilled fog, of the most intolerable
kind. — Sm W. Scott's Diet.

It was excellent music, and they all enjoyed it.
Polly and Aggy forgot their late discomfiture,
and beamed with good temper and appreciation.
Mrs. Simonds and Zeph were equally
happy. Once or twice Zeph could not help
wishing that her sisters would not show their
satisfaction by sitting with a constant smile on
their lips, and she would have been happier if
Mrs. Simonds had not worn a bonnet with
quite such a mass of tropical vegetation on it ;
but she whispered to Jack, who was a very
handsome little boy, ' Keep with me when the
concert is over ; let us walk out of the room

together ; ' and, having done that, did not care
about the bonnet, for she was not seated by
the good lady's side, and no one need know
that they all belonged to the same party.

Towards the end of the evening little wisps
of white film seemed to be floating about the
hall, and soon the air was filled with that indefinable
something — indefinable, but palpable
to almost every sense — which betrayed the
existence of a fog. February had already
come, and it had not been a foggy winter as
yet, so no one felt particularly alarmed ; but
when the music was over, and people began to
think of home, it was wonderful how quickly
the news flew through the hall that there was
the worst fog which had been known for years.
Every one struggled towards the door of the
hall. That could be found easily enough, but
where was the door into the street? There
was no need for Zeph to be ashamed of being
with Mrs. Simonds ; no one had time now to
despise his neighbour for wearing a bonnet
crushed down by a weight of tropical vegetation

— every one was in sore distress to know
how to get home.

Oh, my dear Jack ! ' gasped Zeph,
promise me faithfully to keep quite close
by my side. Let me take hold of your
hand.'

It is most dangerous ! ' said Mrs. Simonds,
pale with anxiety ; ' but we must not lose our
courage, and we must keep together. At least,
that's what we ought to do, but I am sure I
don't know how it's to be managed.'

Hoar indeed ! They had not gone half a
dozen yards before Mrs. Simonds was walking
off to Knightsbridge, holding Aggy by one
hand, while with the other she grasped the
arm of an honest tradesman from the Earl's
Court Eoad, who firmly believed that he was
convoying his own wife safely to the home he
fervently wished he had never left. It was a
thoroughly bad fog — pungent of taste and
strong of smell, — and it rolled against their
faces in damp waves, half choking them as
they tried to breast it.

Come on, girls,' said Jack encouragingly ;
I know my way quite well. We have to
walk straight on for about five minutes more,
and then we must turn to the right, and the
others are close behind us ; ' for as yet he was
unaware that Mrs. Simonds and party were
now making the best of their way in an opposite
direction.

'It's not such easy work as you want to
make out,' said Polly. ' I have always heard
that all the carriages and horses come on the
pavement when there's a fog like this, and you
may be quite sure that those great awkward-looking
omnibuses will think nothing of crushing
us to death.'

The people are far worse than the omnibuses,'
said Zeph. ' How they do push against
us ! '

Just then a party of boys who were roaming
about under cover of darkness, yelling,
hooting, and thrusting lanterns into the faces
of startled foot-passengers, came by, and one of
them thrust his lantern in Polly's eyes, making

the most hideous contortions of his own face
and uttering the most appalling cry as he
did so. Polly started back screaming in an
agony of terror.

Come on,' again said Jack ; ' never mind
him. Here's the turning, I am sure ; I have
kept my hand on the railings all the way. We
can't have come wrong.'

But we seem to be going round and round,'
said Zeph. So they were, for they were walking
round and round Kensington Square.

Suppose we have lost our way ! ' she continued,
her teeth chattering with cold and
terror. Each moment she expected some one
of the terrible-looking men of whose existence
she from time to time became indistinctly
aware, to fling strong arms round her, and
drag her away into the darkness and murder
her. Jack was her only protector, and he was
a boy of ten !

I don't believe the others are behind us,'
said Polly ; and to satisfy herself, she called,
'Aggy! Aggy!'

She's there,' said Jack ; ' I'll swear I heard
her voice a minute since

^ Call her, then,' said Polly.

Jack called, they all called ; but their cry
was only taken up and mocked by a group of
demoniac link-boys. They waited and called,
and waited and called again. No Agnes was
there to answer, but somewhere very near
them there were two carriages in unfortunate
proximity to each other. This they gathered
from the cries and bad language of the coachmen,
but immediately afterwards the lost children
heard a crash, and felt sure that one of
the horses had become entirely unmanageable.
It was pimping wildly about, and so near to
them as to be extremely dangerous.

We shall be killed ! ' exclaimed Zeph.

It's going the other way,' said Jack.
Stand still.'

Oh no, it is not ! ' said Polly. ' Zeph is
right, we shall be killed ! — that's just one of
the ills one does go and get heir to directly, on
a night like this ! '

Jack, who, after all, was the calmest of the
party, had dragged them close to the railings
aod made them stand still. ' Polly is quoting
a bit of one of my lessons, and quoting it
wrong,' said he, ' but still it is Shakespeare.'

Jack dear, do hold your tongue,' said
Zeph, in great distress and fear. ' How can
you talk of such things as that, when we may
all be dead next minute ! '

'Now it's safe to move,' said Jack. So
they grasped each other's hands tighter than
ever, and hurried from the neighbourhood of
such danger as quickly as they could. This
fright completely drove away any ideas they
might have had on the subject of their route,
but that was of no real consequence, for they
were already completely lost.

And all this for a common sixpenny
concert, where they did not even number
the seats ! ' moaned Polly. ' I do believe we
shall lose our lives for nothing better than
that ! '

As if it would be pleasant to die after

being at one which had cost a guinea I ' exclaimed
Zeph.

Well, I don't know.' continued Polly ; ' I

think ' but what she thought they never

knew, for just at that moment she stepped over
the edge of the pavement, which was rather
high there, and fell into the road, uttering a
loud cry for help. Jack at once went to give
what help he could ; Zeph stood waiting where
she was, consoled by hearing Polly say that she
was not much hurt. He soon returned, and
they once more walked on, but Zeph did not
speak, for she was intent on what she almost
hoped was a ray of light, a little clearer than
any she had yet seen from any of the lamps
they had passed. It turned out to be a very
poor thing in the way of light when they came
a step nearer to it ; so, in great disappointment,
she said, ' Suppose that instead of being in the
Uxbridge Eoad, as you say we are, we find out
that we are miles from home ! What is the
matter. Jack ? Why are you stopping .^ '

A strange voice answered, ' I am stopping

because I am very much afraid that you have
made a mistake, but I hoj^e it is not too late to
rectify it.'

To see the face of the speaker was of course
impossible, but there was no need to see it —
she knew he was not Jack. ' I thought you
were my brother ! ' she said in great distress,
dropping the hand with which she was about to
grasp his, and standing still in dismay. ' Then
I have lost him ! What shall I do ? '

Let us turn back at once. You can only
have left him a minute or two ago, — we are
certain to find him.'

Do you really think so ? ' said she more
hopefully, ' I will call him. Jack ! Jack !
Mary ! I am here. Do come.'

But no one answered, and no one came save
strangers as wayworn and lost as herself. She
stood still, utterly overwhelmed by this new
blow. Then she felt she must give some explanation.
'We all went to a concert,' she
began, her voice broken with sobs, which she
tried to restrain but could not,— 'my two

sisters, and my little brother Jack, and Mrs.
Simonds, a friend of ours, and her boy. You
know what a night it has been ! Mrs. Simonds
and one of my sisters were behind, and somehow
we were parted from them ; but I never
thought I should lose Jack and Mary too,' here
she was interrupted by a sob, ' and it was all
done in a moment ! My sister missed her footing
and fell into the road, and poor little Jack
left loose of my hand to go and help her, and
when you came by I fancied you were he, and
walked away with you, and now I shall never
find him ! Oh, it has been a wretched night ! '
sob, sob, sob.

'Oh, don't take a small misfortune so terribly
to heart,' said the stranger ; ' I can understand
your distress, but no one has been hurt,
and we shall find your brother. He must be
very near. We should find him quite easily if
this fog didn't deaden sound so much, but weare
quite certain to find him. Besides, if the
worst come to pass, and we do not, you can tell
me where you five, and I will take you home.'

Oh, thank you, thank you most heartily ;
but I must not go home. I must stay here
till I find the others. They will be so miserable
about me ! Jack ! Mary ! Jack ! ' Again
and again she called them. She was conscious
that crowds as anxious and bewildered as herself
were hurrying by ; none knew her voice ;
many of them seemed to be in great alarm
about friends of their own. She gave up calling
her brother and sister, and stood in silent
anguish.

'Tell me where you Hve,' said he. She
made a great effort to answer him, but, even
in this moment of emotion, could not mention
the name of the district in which her home
was without a pang.

I live in De Manvers Town,' said she at
last ruefully. ' My father writes books, and
he likes to live there because it is so quiet ; '
and then she would have given worlds to recall
that assertion, which had been made on the
spur of the moment because no other excuse
presented itself, for quiet and De Manvers

VOL. I. D

Town had no kinship with each other. ' Besides,
we are poor,' said she pathetically, asa
sort of amends for having so outstripped
truth.

If you will stand here by this lamp-post,'
said he, ' I will run back and try to find your
brother.'

Oh, no, please don't go ; I beg you not
to leave me ! ' cried Zeph in great fear, ' I shall
die of terror if you do ! '

He did not speak for a moment. He was
thinking what he had better do.

You are a stranger to me, I know, and I
ought not to be troublesome to you,' said she
apologetically ; ' only every one else is so very
much more strange.'

'But I am delighted to be of service to
you — ^I am indeed. Do not be afraid of my
being so base as to desert you : I promise not
to leave you until I have provided for your
safety. The first thing to do is to find out
where we are. A policeman would tell us —
that is, if he knew himself. But stay : I'll

ring the bell of the first house I can make out
to be lighted — some of those we have passed
must be, but it is impossible to see either
houses or lights.'

He talked ; Zeph could do nothing but
weep. She was cold, and unhappy, and terrified
: and wherever she was, she was sure she
was a long way from home.

We had much better give up any idea
of finding your brother and sister,' said he,
and make the best of our way to your home.
Take my arm ; you must not stand here
any longer ; you are coughing so much, we
really ought to be moving. Are you warmly
dressed ? '

But I am anxious about them. Jack is
quite a little boy, he is only ten ; and Mary is
younger than I am, and I am only nineteen.
What will they do, poor things ? '

He had while she was speaking touched
her shoulder, and found that she was wearing
some garment which felt very damp. She
said that she was warm enough, but he was

D 2

afraid she was not. ' I'll take you home first
said he, ' and then if your brother and sister
are not there, I promise you I will do my best
to find them. Take my arm, please, and then
I shall not lose you.'

He saw a glimmering light and felt his
way to the steps of a house, a large house it
seemed to be by the portico, and at last he
found the bell.

This is Number Five Ambassadors' Gate,
sir,' said a servant very gruffly, for the fog
which rushed in through the open door was
repugnant to a delicate sense of comfort which
it had been the business of his life for many
years to cultivate. ' Oh, I beg your pardon,
Mr. Daylesford ; I did not see it was you, sir.
Would you allow me to get a lantern and
show you to your own house, sir .^ '

No, thank you,' replied the stranger.
Then he turned to Josephine, whose face and
figure he was beginning to be able to see a
little. ' My own house is six doors from this ;
I live at Number Eleven. Would you like to

take shelter there, while I send for a cab for
you ? I will escort you home if you will
allow me, whether you walk or drive ; but I
think we had better have a cab.'

Oh, no, thank you.' she replied, * I don't
think I dare go in a cab, but I wish you would
tell me what I ought to do.' She said this
very humbly, she was so unused to act for
herself, and so uncertain what a girl would be
expected to do in such circumstances. She
wished he would take her home as quickly as
possible, but was afraid he would not really
care to take the trouble to go as far as De
Manvers Town with a poor little girl who was
lost. Just at that moment he was willing to
take much more trouble for her than he had
been before they had rung at that bell : he had
been sorry for her before, but now, having had
the opportunity of looking at her afforded by
the small amount of light which issued from
the hall at Number Five, he had become aware
that she was very beautiful, and had the most
wonderful eyes he had ever seen in his life.

So when she said, ' Tell me what you
think I ought to do,' he replied, ' I think you
had better let fine try to help you to find your
way to your own home at once.'

'But then you will have to walk all the
way back here again,' said Zeph, grieving over
the thought that hers was not a home into
which she could freely invite a lordly stranger
accustomed to better things.

My dear young lady,' said he firmly, ' you
quite forget that I am a man, and strong, and
able to find my way about quite well when I
don't mind losing it a little — even if I had to
walk about all night, it would not hurt me.'

You are very kind ; I am afraid that even
if I am putting you to great inconvenience I
shall still have to accept your kind osier : please
let us go.'

Mr. Daylesford then cautiously made his
way back to the main road. This he could
only do by a careful computation of turnings,
and by keeping his hand on the railings of the
houses all the time. But now that they were

en route, he resolved not to let his companion
make such a misery of the adventure. He
began to talk to her, and was determined that
she should answer. ' You have been to hear
the "Elijah" at the Albert Hall, I suppose?
Was it good ? '

Oh, no, no,' replied Zeph, who was hardly
ever free from a feeling of mortification at her
own poverty. 'No, we don't go to these — I
mean we have not been there ; we only went to
a People's Concert at Kensington Town Hall.'

Was it good ? those concerts are sometimes.'


Yes, very good. I enjoyed it, but then I
go out so seldom that I always enjoy everything.'


Do you like going to the theatre ? '

'Yes,' replied Zeph most emphatically,
but I have only been twice in my whole life.
If any one were to tell me that I should go to
the theatre next week, I don't believe I should
sleep an hour until the play came, for thinking
of what was in prospect ! ' He was silent fora

moment, and she added, ' And some people
go nearly every night ! '

Yes, and I am afraid that I used to be
one of them. I only returned to England three
months ago, and English theatres were new tome
— now I don't go half so often.'

*You are getting tired of it?' asked Zeph,
hoping to hear him say that this joy, which
was one of those she most coveted, ceased to
be a joy to those who could indulge in it to
their heart's content. She could endure her
own pleasureless existence more patiently if
those who seemed to have better lives did not
get the full amount of happiness out of the
amusements which fell so plentifully to their
lot.

I am afraid I am ; but then I can give up
going when that happens — there is always
something else to do.'

She could have torn away her hand from
his arm : his world and hers were so utterly
and so cruelly different : there was always
something else that was pleasant for him to do.

No such consolation was hers. She sighed,
and was silent.

Don't sigh,' said he. ' I know by certain
landmarks that we are going right, and what
is more, I am certain that the fog is not quite
so thick. Look — don't you see a dull kind of
glimmer there — it means a brilliantly lighted
room.'

Josephine drew a long breath of relief,
'It has been a dreadful night — at least, it
would have been if I had not met you. What
should I have done without you? Do you
know, I believe I should have crept into some
portico, and have sat still in a corner until I
could see to go home.'

Not a- bad thing to do,' said he cheerily ;
'but it really is growing much clearer.' He
spoke with more certainty on this point than
he seemed to have any warrant for, but he was
so sorry for her. He could feel by the way
her hand lay on his arm that she was utterly
weary and despondent. Nevertheless, parties
of two and three persons passed them by

frequently, and they were surely much more
visible than before. At length they came into
a street where an immense gin-palace actually
lighted up a large piece of pavement in front
of it. When they came within range of its
brilliance, they both turned as if by mutual
consent to look at each other — each longed
to see the other's face. When the door of
Number Five had been open he had seen hers,
though imperfectly ; but she had been so
indifferent to everything except getting home
again, that she had scarcely looked at him.
She saw a tall brown-haired and brown-bearded
man, looking searchingly in her face. He
had a good nose and mouth, and a remarkably
pleasant smile, and he could not help smiling
both with eyes and mouth when he met her
inquiring gaze. Her eyes fell at once, but soon
she raised them again, though this time she
tried to show less curiosity.

It is very natural that we should wish to
see each other,' said he. ' We have been
walking along side by side in total darkness for

more than an hour, neither of us having the least
idea what the other was like. There's something
just a trifle ghost-ike about that, isn't there ?
You might have had the same kind of gentleman
with you that Leonora had when she set
out on her midnight ride, and I might have
been escorting the lovely Maid of Colonsay to
her abode ! '

Ah, but she did not reside in De Manvers
Town,' replied Josephine, who had never heard
of the Maid of Colonsay, but could not forget
that very soon she and this gentleman, who
looked so handsome and dignified, and belonged,
as she could easily see, to a class of
society far above that of any one whom she had
ever known, would enter the street in which
her father's house was situated, and before they
could reach it would have to pass the line of
shops which blighted the neighbourhood. What
would he think of her ? She would never see
him again of course, but it was dreadful to
think of his carrying away such an impression
of her and her surroundings! Would the

shops be open or shut ? When open they were
generally illuminated by flaring jets of gas,
and so lavishly that all their cheap catchpenny
contents could well be seen. The nearer she
came to them the more uneasy she grew. The
worst shop of all was one for ready-made
clothes, and during the last week or two its
window had been filled with a row of trousers
dangling before the eyes of all passers by, each
bearing a large white ticket with this touching
appeal : ' Give us one trial. lOs. 66?.' She felt
that she would rather die than walk past that
shop with Mr. Daylesford. He had been talking
all this time, but she had only been able to
return short and unsatisfactory answers to what
he said, for her thoughts were chilled by this
fear.

I am afraid you are very tired,' said he at
last.

Oh no, I am not,' she replied joyously, for
she had just ascertained that all the shops were
shut, and that there was not enough light to
reveal the worst features of Lome Gardens.

I am not at all tired. I am anxious about
the others, though. Do you think there is any
hope of their being at home ? '

Oh yes, I do ; but you will see if they are
in a moment. Five Lome Gardens, I think
you said ; here is Number One.'

And now Josephine had a new terror. Suppose
her poor dear hard-working father should
have become aware that she was missing, and
were to shuffle to the door in his lamp-shaped
slippers and dressing-gown when he heard the
bell ring ! On such a night as this it was not
absolutely impossible that a certain amount of
anxiety might not penetrate even to his study.
Or Polly, with a loud ' Here is Zeph ! ' and still
louder kiss, might rush forward to welcome
back the sister she loved and quarrelled with
so heartily. Zeph tried to say good night and
to thank Mr. Daylesford at the foot of the
steps.

Oh no,' said he decisively, ' I must know
if you are relieved of all anxiety about the rest
of your party before I say good-bye.'

She ran up the steps and rang. The door
was opened directly. It was Jack who opened
it, and her father was standing close behind him.

That's right ! ' exclaimed Jack. ' Here's
Zeph, and now we are all here ! '

Thank Heaven for that, and also for letting
father be well behind Jack,' thought Zeph ;
'no one can see his feet if Jack stands still
where he is.'

Father, this gentleman found me when I
was lost, and kindly walked home with me,'
said she simply.

Mr. Treherne thanked the stranger in such
a dignified and graceful manner that Zeph was
delighted. He even asked him to come in.
To her great satisfaction, however, this invitation
was declined. ' It is too late, thank you,'
said the stranger. 'I am very glad to have
been of service to your daughter. I hope she
will not suffer from her exposure to the cold.
Is there a cab-stand near ? ' Jack volunteered
to show him one about five minutes' walk from
the house, so they departed together, and no

sooner had the door closed on them than Zeph
said, ' Father, who was the Maid of Colonsay ? '

Come to my room tomorrow, and you
shall read about her,' replied Mr. Treherne ;
his anxiety about his child had actually produced
an invitation to the study ! ' I have
been very uneasy about you, dear,' he said.
You have been in great peril. This comes of
going out ! Girls ought not to leave their
parents' roof — they ought to stay quietly at
home. Good night, dear Zeph ; this has been a
sad anxiety and hindrance to my poor work.'

Is Mrs. Simonds safe ? ' asked Zeph when
she was upstairs vdth her sisters.

'Yes,' replied Polly ; ' Aggy and Jack and
I ran round to see as soon as the fog cleared
away a little, and Frank is safe, and so is she ;
but her bonnet is completely ruined! The
fog has made all those lovely flowers quite
dirty and black ! '

I do call that a misfortune ! ' said Aggy.
But Zeph did not, and went upstairs to her
own little room — where, weary in mind and

body, she sank on to her hard black box.
Ten minutes later Jack knocked at her door.
I was awfully afraid you were lost for ever ! '
said he ; and then, before she could speak, he
added, ' I say, Zeph, that fellow that walked all
the way home with you asked an awful lot of
questions about you and all of us ? '

'What did he ask?'

What your name was. What Zeph stood
for. I believe he thought it a very queer
short name ; and then he wanted to know
which of my sisters I liked best.'

Which did you say ? You are a wicked
boy if you didn't say Zeph ! '

Never you mind what I said. And then
he wanted me to tell him if you were fond of
reading ; and I said no, you never opened a
book ! '

Jack, you need not have said that.'

Well, you never do ; and besides, if you
did, why should he be told about it ? I don't see
why a man who will never see you again need
inquire whether you are fond of reading or not.'

CHAPTEE III.

THE DUTY OF A SCHOOLBOY.

Char. Ili will night days er hoffen soil, und ici ann lin
doch night yerzweifeln lassen. — Egmont.

I SAY, Zeph,' exclaimed Agnes a few days
later, ' would you like to hear a bit of news ?
What do you think has happened? Mother
sent me directly after breakfast with a message
to Mrs. Simonds, and she had just had a letter
from John. He has had an appointment given
him, and is to go to be second master at Axminster
School at Easter, and he is comines to
London to see her now ; but she is quite funny
about this visit, and declares that it is all very
well for him to say that he wants to see her,
but that she is quite certain it is you who are
his greatest attraction. Why, you foolish girl,
how you are blushing ! '

VOL. I. E

Zeph looked as if she could have slain
Agnes. She did not like this kind of conversation,
and walked out of the room. By far
the greater part of her day was spent in the
garret in which she slept. She had made it as
pretty as she could. She had embroidered a
counterpane for her bed, had found a couple
of old hearth-rugs which played the part of a
carpet, and she had adorned the walls with
Cherry Pipe,' ' Little Need Ending Hood,' and
every good coloured newspaper illustration
which came in her way. Some china cups and
saucers were artistically arranged on her mantelpiece,
and her small bookcase full of railway
novels hung on the wall. An old mahogany
looking-glass, on the top of a small chest of
drawers which did duty for a toilet-table, was
furnished with draperies of spotted muslin tied
back with cherry-coloured ribbons; and two
tall china candlesticks with short bits of wax
candle in them stood by and added a sensible
amount of happiness to her life. A glove-box,
a handkerchief-box, and some scent-bottles

were there too, and one or two other trifles.
They were no trifles to Zeph. They represented
the strongest efibrt it was in her power
to make to escape from being dragged down
by poverty and care. All the people downstairs
— for thus she was wont to describe
her father, mother, and sisters — were so prostrated
by the poverty which had taken possession
of the house, that they had ceased to
care for any of the graces or refinements of
life. They ate their daily bread, indifferent
to how it was set before them. They knew
that elegances and luxuries were beyond their
reach, but while surrendering them perforce to
cruel necessity, they at the same time renounced
a thousand small things which lend an indefinable
grace to existence, and which poor
people need not forego. Josephine was resolved
that nothing should ever make her follow their
example. She would do her best to help her
mother if ever her mother would give her anything
to do, but she would not run about in
shoes that were worn out of shape, or wear

E 2

LIBRARY

,r-or Tv nc IIIINOS

dresses with holes in them because they were
not worth the trouble of mending. Zeph^s
dresses were always mended so long as the
material would bear her stitches, and she
always looked nice — though her dress might
not be worth half a crown. After flying from
Agnes's tongue, she shut her bedroom door and
dropped down on the black box to think.
John Simonds had got the second-mastership
at Alnminster School, and was coming back,
and she would soon see him. He was coming
to see her. Time was when she and John had
seen each other every day, and had loved each
other in a simple and childish but very resolute
fashion. He had always said that he loved her
• better than any one else in the whole world, and
that he should always do so. She had said
much the same thing to him — she remembered
it perfectly, and how he had said, ' I want to
say something to you, Zeph ; and that is, that
you must never love any one else but me;
and when I get rich I shall come foi you, and
take you away to live with me always.' But

that was nearly three years ago, when she was
only sixteen. She had never quite dared to let
herself believe that he would remember her all
that long time. Was he rich now ? Was this
appointment a thing to make him rich ? He
would have to hive in Alnminster. Why did he
want to see her? Gradually, as she asked
herself these questions, the past, and his bright
resolute face and cheery affectionate ways, rose
up more and more distinctly before her. She
had not seen him for nearly three years, but
she had never forgotten him. She had always
loved him better than any one outside of her
own family. She did so still. Indeed, in her
heart she was conscious that she loved him
more than she loved any of her own people ;
she meant no unkindness to them, but she was
afraid she did. Was that wrong .? She hardly
ever saw her father and mother ; and her sisters,
except at rare moments when they showed
some affection, were to her little more than
great rough, tiresome girls, who made the house
uncomfortable by their untidy, ungentle ways.

Well, it will be strange to see poor dear
John again,' lie thought, and she sat dwelling
on the idea with the greatest happiness. After
a long time she heard a knock at her bedroom
door. It was Jack.

You might help me with my theme, Zeph,'
said he.

I can't, dear ; I am thinking of something
very particular.'

My theme is particular ; I shall catch it, I
know, if it is not written.'

'What is it about?'

The duties of a schoolboy.'

But surely you know far more about the
duties of a schoolboy than I do.'

I dare say I do, but you can write
better.'

What are the duties. Jack.? '

Oh, if you listen to what the masters tell
you, there are a lot ; but if you listen to what
the boys say, I don't think there is much else
to do than never tell tales. You don't know
what a row I got into, Zeph, last week when I

told the master that one of the fellows was
copying.'

You will write your theme better than I
can ; I should only write a prosy thing that
every one would know was not yours.'

That would never do ! I'll write it myself,
and you'll help me with my arithmetic'

What are you doing ? '

Rule of three.'

I know nothing of the rule of three. I
know nothing of any rule but subtraction, and
I shall never want any other.' Zeph sighed as
she said it. Jack opened his eyes wide and
stared, and said he could not imagine what she
meant.

^ You silly!' said she. ' Some one gives you
ten shillings, and you spend part of it, and
then you spend some more, and so you goon
subtracting and subtracting till you have
nothing left.'

Who told you about that ? ' said Jack,
with much surprise.

'Who told me what?'

That some one did give me ten shillings
the other night,' said he mysteriously. ' Don't
go and tell mother, or she'll want me to use it
in buying boots or something.'

But who gave it to you — not Mr. Dales


Yes, Mr. Daylesford.'

But why didn't you tell me before ? '

Because I made up my mind to tell no
one ; I don't object to your knowing, though.
By Jove, Zeph, but he had a lot of money in
his pocket ! I heard it jingle as he pulled out
half a sovereign for me. He just said, " Here,
my little man, I dare say you have plenty of
uses for this. Buy something in remembrance
of the fog ; " and he did not at all seem to think
that he was giving me a lot. I like Mr.
Daylesford, Zeph.'

I dare say you do,' replied Zeph thoughtfully.
' I rather like him too.'

'Do you suppose we shall ever see him
again ? '

No ; why should we ? '

'Because when he bade me good-bye he
said, " I hope we shall meet again very soon."
That was just as the cab was driving oiOf with
him;

Come, Jack dear, go away and write your
theme,' said Zeph, who wanted to think of
something much more important. He went
and toiled at his theme, scraping up every bit
of schoolboy morality he could muster. She
sat on her box till darkness fell, wondering
what John Simonds would say to her, and
what she had better say to him. She was
called down to tea before she had half done
thinking. Her family were evidently expecting
a visitor. The fire looked bright, the hearth
was brushed up. The chairs were cleared of
odds and ends for which her sisters never
seemed to be able to find any other place ; the
lamp looked as if it had been specially cared
for ; two or three unwonted delicacies had been
put on the tea-table, and Polly and Aggy, who
had made all these preparations for the visitor,
had also flung a big bit of muslin and lace

round their necks, and had each stuck a large
red artificial rose in it just under their left
ears.

Agnes was standing on a footstool on the
hearth-rug trying to see the effect of this adornment
in the little mirror over the mantelpiece,
when John Simonds entered the room. ' Oh,
what a pity ! ' she muttered to herself in dismay.
I do wish he had not caught me at the glass ! '
and her cheeks crimsoned with shame. But
he neither saw what she was doing, nor her
confusion at being detected in an act of vanity ;
nay, more, his colour was as bright as hers
when he warmly grasped Zeph's hand and
eagerly tried to meet her half-reluctant eyes.
Brief as their greeting was, there was something
in his manner which told her unmistakably
what he had come to say. Republished
too, and tried to creep quietly away
into the most remote corner of the room. How
handsome he was ! All the three girls mentally
made this exclamation at the selfsame moment.
He was of middle height, with dark hair and

fine dark warm brown eyes, which danced
with joy now ; and he was a fine, manly, clever-looking
fellow, who looked as if he could carve
his own way in any hne of life, and, what is
more, could undertake to guarantee the woman
he loved against all such misfortunes as were
to be averted by bravery and forethought.
Zeph glanced at him whenever she dared, and
began to feel very proud of him.

How is Mrs. Treherne ? ' said he, for she
had not yet appeared.

Mother is kept in close attendance on
father, and he is so busy.'

I suppose so. How kind she was to me
when I was a little fellow ! I am longing to
see her. Oh, here she is ! '

Before Mrs. Treherne had been five minutes
in the room she began to feel herself a person
of considerable importance, for it was easy to
see that he was in love with Zeph, and she was
Zeph's mother. She was so engrossed by this
discovery that for some time she actually forgot
to take her husband's tea to the study ; not

that this lapse of memory at all interfered with
his comfort, for he always forgot to take it
until it was cold.

'My dear,' said she when she did go with
the tea, ' there is such a nice handsome young
man upstairs, and he is over head and ears in
love with Zeph.'

Is he ? Don't tell me about it just yet,
dear, for I am so busy.'

Mrs. Treherne went back to the drawing-room
; her husband did seem unusually busy,
and perhaps would not miss her if she stayed
away a little longer. That young man was
certainly in love with Zeph ; so Mrs. Treherne
smoothed the folds of her well-worn black silk,
held her head erect, and sat with a pleasant
smile on her lips, watching the young people,
and ready to put in a kindly word if it were
wanted. Not so Polly and Agnes. They saw
that John Simonds loved Zeph, and such being
the case, they quietly but firmly desisted from
contributing anything to the entertainment of
a young man whose eyes and heart were not

for them. They loved Zeph dearly in their
own peculiar way, but they were continually
ruffled by her assumption of superiority. They
eagerly longed for the time when she would
get married, and they would be able to have
more of their own way. When tea was over,
they retreated to a corner and sat apart, but
though they were quite well-behaved and quiet,
Zeph knew that they were watching her most
narrowly, and weighing every word she said,
with a view to discovering if she too were in
love. They made her painfully nervous, and
the silence of every one but herself and John
Simonds was most uncomfortable. She tried
to make them talk ; they only answered in
monosyllables. She then tried to draw her
mother into the conversation, but Mrs. Theme,
who was always rather a silent woman, was
now too uneasy at leaving her husband alone
so long, and too much occupied in thinking of
this new development of the family fortunes,
to be able to say much. Zeph, in despair,
went away to seek Jack. He had retired once

more to his own little room, and there she
found him with inky fingers, hair thrust back,
and pen nibbled to a stump, just finishing his
theme.

'You might have helped a fellow, Zeph,'
said he pathetically ; ' I have had such a turn
with it ! '

'I would have helped you if I had felt
able ; but, dear child, I am quite sure what
you have written is far better than anything
I could have done.'

Perhaps,' said he, ' but I don't think so.
I'll tell you what, Zeph : you might just take it
and read it before you go to bed to-night, and
tell me if you think it will do. There's a fine
lot of it, isn't there ? ' said he, with conscious
pride. ' I have filled one of father's sheets of
paper. I had to go to mother for paper, and
she gave me four of father's big best sheets.
Stop, Zeph : there's another thing. I want to
know if John Simonds has come to London on
purpose to see you ? ' Jack had heard Polly
and Agnes talking, and was curious.

'Why should he come to see me, Jack?
We have known him for years ; he has come
to see us all, I suppose,' replied Zeph, but her
cheeks flamed scarlet. She folded up Jack's
theme and put it in her pocket, and made him
return to the drawing-room with her. But no
sooner was she there than she again felt the
freezing influence of her sisters' silent gaze. If
they would but say something !

Oh, I say, how quiet you all are ! ' exclaimed
Jack, before he had been in the 
five minutes. ' Can't you play some
game ? It's so stupid sitting this way ! '

A spelling game was proposed, but three
of the party did not feel themselves strong in
spelling.

'Then let us play "What is my thought
like," said some one, but Polly and Agnes
affirmed that they had no thoughts.

Well, I have one,' said Jack, ' and that is
that, as you are not going to do anything jolly,
rU just go ofi" to bed ; ' and he did go, bidding
Zeph not to forget what she had to do for him

before she slept. Finally, they agreed to playa
game which required four players, two on
one side and two on the other ; and Polly and
Agnes completely met their guest's wishes, for
they insisted on being partners in the game,
and left him to play with Josephine. They
perhaps only meant to amuse themselves with
the two whom they were already in their own
minds beginning to call the lovers, but at all
events they now behaved quite pleasantly.

You two go out first,' said Agnes, for it
was a game which involved the banishment of
two of the players while the other two laid
their plans ; ' you two go out, and Polly and I
will settle what we had better do.'

Zeph and her companion went out on to
a cold little landing, lighted by a small lamp.
The door was hardly shut before John Simonds
said, ' I have been longing to see you alone,
Zeph.' Zeph felt faint.

You have heard that I have been appointed
second master in Alnminster School .^ '

Yes,' said she, but she could say no more.

Then if you remember the last words I
said to you, dear, you know why I am here
now.'

She trembled with nervousness, but she did
know, and the knowledge did not make her
unhappy. He took her hand. She did not
draw it away. She had known him ever since
he was a boy, and had always liked him, but
perhaps never so much as now.

You do know, and you will say yes when
I ask you to come to Alnminster with me .^ '

'Oh, no, no,' said Zeph in sudden alarm.
You must wait. I don't quite say yes. I
must have a little more time to think.'

Why, Zeph, if you are like me, you have
been thinking all the time.'

Yes, I know ; but now when it has come
so suddenly — no, John, you must '

You won't send me away unhappy ? 1
only got to London at half-past five, and I hav(^
to go to Alnminster early in the morning for a
day or two to make arrangements : let me have
something happy to think '

VOL. I. F

We are quite ready,' cried Polly and
Agnes, suddenly appearing at the door.

One word, Zeph,' he whispered eagerly ;
say one word ; ' but Zeph walked into the
room. He could but follow her and seem
interested in what he was doing, though his
eyes were more bent on piercing the secret of
Zeph's intentions than on picking up any hint
of the mystery of the game from the two girls'
indiscreet glances at each other at critical
moments. Zeph was in such a maze of bewilderment
as to what it would best beseem
her to do that she blundered at every turn,
and at length Polly and Agnes told her withall
the frank outspokenness of sisters that she
was so stupid there was no fun in playing with
her, and sat down to watch and scrutinise as
before. As for John Simonds, he was now in
such a state of excitement and eagerness for
certainty that it was quite pitiable. Zeph
never raised her eyes ; there was nothing to be
learnt from them. She answered when he
spoke, and answered kindly, but so nervously

that his heart ached for her. Mrs. Treherne
somehow seemed to see that she, was called ou
to help the young people, but did not know
how to do it, and talked continuously. ' It
will soon be three years since we have seen
you, John ; there has always been something
to stop your coming home.'

I have always had to take pupils or do
something,' said he. ' You may be sure that I
have wished to come.'

You must find us all much changed,' said
she ; and thus she maundered on until her
speeches jarred so on him in his present state
of nervous excitement that he felt as if he
could bear it no longer. Presently Polly left
the room for something, and he ventured to
draw near Zeph and say to her in a low voice,
Don't send me away without an answer.' She
looked up in his face, but could not bear to seethe
agonised entreaty in his eyes, and, whispering
'Wait a moment,' hastily left the room.
She would write a hue if he wished it, if only
she could find pen, ink, and paper. She

F 2

dared not go to her father's room, and there
was none anywhere else but in that she had
just left. All at once she remembered the
poor dear inky little boy she had so lately
visited in the garret next to her own. He was
now fast asleep ; but she stole in without disturbing
him, and took his pen and ink and one
of the large sheets of paper that his mother had
given him. In the centre of the ample page
she scrawled with trembling fingers, ' Dear
John, don't press me for an answer until you
come back again. I. cannot give one now.
Please wait.' She folded the sheet in half and
then folded it again, put it in her pocket, and
went downstairs to try to give it to him. She
was deeply sorry for him, and knew she loved
him better than any one else she had ever seen,
and yet that was all she could bring herself to
write. They all looked at her with much
curiosity as she re-entered the room, but she
had decided on a line of conduct, and no
longer cared so much. He was standing by
the fire. She went and stood near him, and as

soon as she could do it unobserved, quietly
took the paper from her pocket and slightly
pushed it along the mantelpiece towards him.
He was very quick in possessing himself of it,
and soon afterwards bade them all good-bye.
He ran down the steps into the road and
walked on until he was out of sight of the
house, and then hurried to the first lamp-post
and opened Zeph's paper What a quantity
she had written ! But what did he see ? Had
she given him this as an insult, or had she
made some strange mistake ? What he read

was

this :

'The Duty of a Schoolboy.

The duty of a schoolboy is to behave himself
as a gentleman, not to bully or treat those
that are younger than himself badly. He
should be obedient to his masters, not copy his
work off other boys' papers ; to work hard and
well, not let his character be spoilt by bad
conduct, illness, impositions, or detention ;
not to be rude or use bad language ; not to

be deceitful ; not to go with bad company ;
not to steal or cheat the commandments : everyone
from first to last ought to be able to control
his temper, however good or bad it maybe
; not to tell anyone in charge of him of theft
or even of murder ; not to clime out of windows
or down spouts ; not to tell lies, or if they
do wrong to be frightened to tell of it, and tell
a lot of lies saying he did not do it ; not to contradict
; not to be bribed or cheated ; not even
to steal a penny, though so little, for if he steals
a penny and is not found out, he will steal
pounds ; if he get the opportunity to go to
church regularly ; to save his money till he
wants to buy something sensible, not to spend
it all in eatables at Grubby 's ; not to be greedy
or to covet other people's goods ; to work
hard and do everything I have said here, and
he will get on fairly well in the school if he

does.

'John Seaton Treherxe, 1st form.'

Before John Simonds had read more than a
Hne or so he knew that he had got the wrong

paper, and that this was poor little Jack's
theme of which he had heard them speaking.
He must return it at once, or the boy would
probably suffer. He walked back to 5 Lome
Gardens. Lights were still to be seen in the
downstairs windows : perhaps there was a
chance of his getting the note intended for himself.
He rang very gently. No one came to
the door ; every one was already far advanced
in the task of preparing to go to bed but Zealand
Mr. and Mrs. Treherne. Zeph was in such
a state of restlessness that she had not even
gone upstairs. Mr. Treherne never took any
notice of any bell except to mutter a malediction .
Mrs. Treherne never dared to take any notice
of external noises when she was with him
John rang again.

Who is there ? ' asked the voice of her he
best loved from within.

It is I, John Simonds,' said he. He found
that by putting his lips to the slit cut in the
door for the letter-box he could make her hear
without having to speak at all loud.

You ! ' exclaimed Zeph, and her heart
leaped with joy, for ever since his departure
she had been repenting the coldness of her
letter.

Yes. You gave me Jack's theme instead
of what I wanted ! '

Oh, did I ? did I really ? Oh, I see how
it happened; I wrote on the same kind of
paper as he did. Poor dear boy, what a state
he would have been in when tomorrow morning

came!

But what a state I was in to-night ! Open
the door and let me give it to you, and then
you can give me the paper that was intended
for me.'

Zeph was terribly tempted to obey. It
was such a delight to hear his voice again ; it
would be such a delight to see his handsome
face ! Why should she not open the door and
have that great pleasure? Her fingers were
already on the bolt when she bethought herself
of the folly she was about to commit. If
she opened the door and he came in, it was

quite certain that he would leave the house
with her promise to be his wife. How foolish
it would be to let herself be so carried away by
feeling ! The few lines she had already written
contained all that she ought to say to him for
the present. He was going away for a day or
two. She had surely a right to ask him to give
her a day or two to decide a question which
would undoubtedly affect the happiness of her
whole life !

Do open the door just for a moment,' he
pleaded once more. ' I am afraid of some one
passing by and hearing what I am saying.'

No, I cannot open it ; it is very hard to
open ; besides, there is no need. You can push
Jack's theme under it or put it into the letter-box.'


But I want what you wrote me.'

I'll push that under the door.'

'I wish you would just tell me one thing,'
said he : 'Is your answer good or bad ? '

You will see it in a minute — there, I am
just working it under the door now — and I

have the theme, so I think I must go. Goodnight,
John.'

But I cannot see here. Don't go yet.
Stop one moment, dear Zeph,' he exclaimed
hastily. ' You surely know that I have loved
you ever since the day I first saw you ; say you
love me.'

I can say nothing to night ; you will be
back here in a day or two.'

A day or two is a fearfully long time to
wait when one is so miserably anxious. You
don't like any one else better ? '

Certainly not ! You must know that I
don't — that I couldn't.'

And you are glad to see me back ? '

Very glad — more glad than I can ever tell
you. Now you must not try to make me say
another word. Good night.'

But, Zeph- — ' But Zeph was gone.

CHAPTEE IV.

THE SECOND MASTER'S WIFE'S PEW.

Si jeunesse savait — '

Zeph ! Zeph ! Zeph ! ' screamed Jack at the
very top of his voice as he entered his father's
house next day — ' Zeph, where are you P

Come down this mom ' But here he

stopped, transfixed by the sight of his father,
who was standing just inside his study, and
now strode angrily forward and collared the
unlucky boy who had ventured to make a
noise so near those sacred precincts.

How dare you make such an uproar, you
stupid boy ? I shall not recover the shock you
have given my brain for the next hour I ' and
as Mr. Treherne spoke he looked at the unwitting
boy so sternly that for the moment he

lost all power of speech. Jack had never seen
his father quit the study in that way before ;
he could only hold up a letter with ' Eleven
Ambassadors' Gate ' printed across the back
of the envelope, and stammer forth, ' It's a
letter from the gentleman who took care of
Zeph in the fog ! '

What of that ? ' said Mr. Treherne, with
absolute indifference. ' I should like to know
if that is any reason for disturbing me ? '

Agnes was looking over the balusters at
the top of the house, Polly doing the same
halfway down ; the servants had run to the
top of the kitchen stairs, and Mrs. Treherne
had followed her husband out of the study ;
for such a disturbance as this had never been
known before.

You little rascal ! ' said he angrily, taking
the offending letter, ' I cannot think what you
mean. If the Emperor of all the Russia had
written, you could not have made more noise.
I shall take this letter myself, and then there
need be no more noise about it ; and as for

you, I sincerely hope that your mother will have
sense enough to lock you safely in your own
room ! ' Having said this, he retreated to his
den again, accompanied by his wife, who knew
that there was no necessity to act on his words.

Oh, Jack, what have you done ? ' exclaimed
Polly. ' Couldn't you have waited till
you were safe upstairs? You know what
father is ! '

You see, the postman had just put it in my
hand. 1 knew Zeph would want her letter :
that's why I called her.'

She'll never see it now. Father will just
scribble a lot of notes on it, and then lock
it away and forget where it is, or else tear it
up, and mother won't dare to stop him,' said
Aggy, and then they sat down on the stairs to
wonder if any of them would ever know the
contents of that letter. Zeph was not at home ;
Mrs. Simonds had sent a note early in the
day to ask her to lunch and dine with her, and
Zeph had gone.

She was now sitting by Mrs. Simonds on a

very uncomfortable sofa, and that lady, a very
spare, cross-looking matron of seven-and-fifty
winters, with a very pronounced structure on
her head by way of a cap, was talking about
John, and every now and then fixing an
anxious eye on Zeph's face to read in it, if
possible, whether she was beginning to feel herself
part of the Simonds family.

You had some talk with him last night, of
course ? ' said Mrs. Simonds severely.

'A little,' replied Zeph, shrinking from
the beady-black eyes which were examining
her.

And he told you about his appointment ? '
Yes.'

As Zeph was so uncommunicative, Mrs.
Simonds began to inform her that John would
have four hundred a year and a house, that
he might easily treble his income by taking
boarders, and that people who took boarders
got rid of much of the trouble of providing for
them by sending large fixed orders to the
butcher and grocer regularly once a week.

Zeph listened, but she took little or no interest
in hearing of the number of pounds of sugar,
tea, rice, soap, and sago John's wife might
have to send for if she made his house popular
with the boys and it was always full. She
had never cared for the details of housekeeping.
She constantly indulged in dreams of the beautiful
house she would one day have, where all
should be perfectly managed, but she never
looked forward to taking any active part in
the said management.

'Tell me about Alnminster,' said she,
hoping to change the subject. ' Is the society
good there ? Will John be in it, or is it a stiff
place ? '

Mrs. Simonds assured her that John would
naturally be in the very best society, and that
when he went to the cathedral he would always
sit in a stall specially appropriated to him,
and that his wife would have a special pew
set apart for her. And as Zeph was showing
some half concealed pleasure in this prospect,
Mrs. Simonds took courage and said, 'That's

if he has a wife, of course. Zeph, do you think
he will have one soon ? '

Zeph blushed crimson, and said, ' You must
not ask too much, Mrs. Simonds. John said
something to me last night about wanting one,
but I said he really must wait till he came
back from Alnminster.'

My dear Zeph, what is the use of keeping
him unsettled until he comes back? If you
like him enough to accept him then, you might
have done it at once. He is a dear fellow, and
any girl might be happy with him ! '

Yes,' said Zeph warmly, ' he really is.'

Well, young people understand each other

best, no doubt; only why but I see it

will be all right when he comes, won't it,
Zeph?'

I don't know,' replied Zeph. ' I hope so, I
am sure. But I cannot give a final answer
until he is here.'

More could not be drawn from her. Mrs.
Simonds knitted, Zeph worked. Mr. Simonds,
who was a doctor, stole an hour from his patients

to spend with the girl who was so soon to be
his daughter-in-law. He was a tall gaunt man,
remarkably like Carlyle in appearance, but
with a latent fund of kindness in his composition.
It was dull before he came, it was
deadly dull after ; and at ten o'clock Zeph
went home, saying to herself that John was a
dear fellow, but that even for his sake she could
not endure many such afternoons as that.

The moment she was inside the house,
Polly came to her on tiptoe and softly whispered,
' There is something for you upstairs,'
and leading Zeph thither with much mystery
and many glances of fear in the direction of
the study, took her to the table where the
letter, which they had at last prevailed on
their mother to capture for them, was lying.
Eleven Ambassadors' Gate ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
in great surprise, when she saw the envelope.
She opened the letter and uttered a cry of
dismay.

Oh, what is it? Do tell us ! ' cried Polly
and Aggy in a breath. ' Don't keep us wait-vol.

I. G

ing. We have suffered so much about that
letter already ! '

Eead it ! read it I ' said Zeph. ' I never
knew anything so horribly vexing ; no, never !
And to think of the dulness I have been enduring,
when I might have had this ! ' Polly
read : —

Dear Miss Treherne, — I send for your
kind acceptance an order for a box at the
Levity Theatre, for to-night (Friday). It is a
large box and will comfortably seat four, so
I hope that you will be able to persuade Mrs.
Treherne and your sisters to accompany you ;
and if you like to take your nice little brother
also, he will have no difficulty in finding a
place. The play is " Hamlet." I am intentionally
sending this order at the eleventh hour,
for I have not forgotten your words on that
wretchedly foggy night when I had the pleasure
of helping you to find your home. You then
said, " If any one were to tell me that I should
go to the theatre next week, I should not sleep

an hour for thinking of what was coming."
Now that I have stored up the order until the
morning of the very day when it is to be used,
I begin to be afraid lest I have not given
you sufficient time. I shall be very raucli
disappointed if I do not see you to-night.
Yours faithfully,

'Godfrey Daylesford.'

He won't be half so much disappointed as
we are ! ' said Polly. Agnes looked as if she
were going to cry.

What o'clock is it ? ' exclaimed Zeph.
Would it be possible to get there in time to
see one act .^ I'd go, even for one act ! ' But
no, De Manvers Town was more than an hour's
drive from the ' Levity,' and it was now half-past
ten.

Besides, we are not dressed ! ' said Zeph,
with tears in her eyes.

'That good box!' moaned Agnes: 'just
think of its being wasted like that ! '

None of the three sirs had ever known

the pleasant sensation of sitting in comfort ina
box at the theatre ; on the few occasions
when they had been, they had 'just sat anywhere.'


Such a thing will never happen again ! '
said Zeph tearfully. 'Think what we might
be doing now, and what we have lost ! ' All
three shed tears. What cured Zeph was hearing
Polly say, ' I'd have worn my stripe.'

You would have done nothing of the kind ! '
exclaimed Zeph. ' The order was sent to me,
and I shouldn't have dreamed of allowing you
to make such a fright of yourself! No, you
and Agnes would both have worn your pretty,
plain white muslins with the lace frills.'

Polly and Agnes were about angrily to
deny her right to control their choice of dress,
but they remembered that no dress would
now be wanted, and again all but wept.
Zeph longed to be alone. She took writing
materials with her to her garret. She thought
it would soothe her to pour out her regrets to
Mr. Daylesford. She hastily wrote a letter

expressing all the vexation she felt. She
signed this, and then tore it in pieces. It
would be very undignified to send such a
letter as that. She wrote another — it was
still too full of lamentation. Finally, she wrote
a stiff little note, merely thanking him for so
kindly trying to give her and her sisters a
great pleasure, and regretting that, owing to
her having been out at dinner, she had not
received his letter until late at night. The
pleasure of writing that she had been out at
dinner partly consoled her. ' It will give him
quite a good impression of the family if he find?
that we go out to dinner parties,' she thought.
She put this in an envelope and went to bed.
There will be no " Levity " at Alnminster,'
was her next thought, ' but there will be dear
old John, and I really do like him.'

Jack posted the letter for her early next
morning as he went to school, and as soon as he
was gone beyond recall she bethought herself of
the terrible mistake she had made in it. If she
had not received a letter delivered at one

o'clock in the day because she was dining out,
the obvious inference was that her dinner party
took place at that unseemly hour. ' And I
meant my letter to give him such a good
impression of our ways,' she thought most
ruefully.

The eleven o'clock post, however, brought
lier a letter from John which made her forget
everything else. He would be back in London
about six o'clock on Monday, and would come
to see her at nine, or earlier still if he could
get away. Furthermore, he wrote, ' Administer
is a charming place, and the house I
am to have is both pretty and comfortable ;
but whether I shall be happy in it or not
depends entirely on you, dear Zeph.'

^ How I wish he had not to take boarders ! '
thought Zeph. Her ideas on the subject of
boarders were derived from an establishment
over the way, where a dismal-looking old lady,
assisted by two untidy servants, professed to
board and lodge half a dozen broken-down
gentlemen and ladies,' who might possibly at

some very far-distant period have seen better
days. This letter made Zeph feel that the
crisis of her life was at hand. On Monday
evening she would have to crime him an answer,
and this was Saturday. She knew she loved
him, but in spite of that she did not like to vow
away her whole life without more consideration.
Suppose her love were not strong enough to
enable her to endure the daily, nay, hourly
annoyances inseparable from small means?
She well knew how little comfort could be
procured for four hundred a year. Even her
father's income was sometimes larger than that.
She knew the mortifications and misery of
poverty so well that her heart died within herat
the thought that if she accepted John on
Monday, she would set her seal to an act which
would ensure her having to live always as she
was living now, with every desire of her heart
continually thwarted by want of money. ' I
might easily have made up my mind to marry
him if I had been brought up in a rich home,'
said she to herself. ' Each efirls think it will

be rather amusing to be poor — no poor girl can
ever think that ! It is a shame I should have
been born so poor ! ' Zeph had many a quarrel
with fortune. She never took up a society-paper
and read the praises of some well-known
beauty without feeling that she herself was
probably much more beautiful, only that other
girl went to balls and parties, and places where
she could be seen night after night ; and
besides that, she was always well dressed. ' I
might be the most magnificently beautiful woman
in the world,' thought Zeph, ' and yet,
living as I do, my beauty would be completely
thrown away. Who would ever dream
of coming to a dingy house in De Manvers
Town to look for a beauty's Besides, beauty
must be set off. I never have a dress or
bonnet fit to wear. If people think me good-looking
dressed as I am, there must be something
really good in my poor face, which even
the ugly ill-made things I go about in cannot
succeed in hiding. I wish I could make the
most of myself. Besides, one has to be seen.

How delightful it would have been to have
gone to the " Levity " and have sat in that nice
box last night ! ' Then her thoughts reverted
to the pew set apart in Alnminster Cathedral
for the second master's wife, and she began,
with much satisfaction, to picture herself sitting
in it a month or two hence, in a rich brown
velveteen costume trimmed with fur, and a
small hat made of the same materials. That
was one of the dresses she decided on having,
supposing she went there ; and then she began
to think that there really would be a great deal
of pleasure in having her own way about her
dresses, and in knowing that John had reason
to be proud of his wife. She felt very unsettled
all day, and wandered from room to
room, frequently dropping down on a chair to
meditate on these and other things, but always
on something connected with John. ' I could
not well refuse him now,' she said to herself;
I have all but accepted him already ! Besides,
who wants to refuse him, dear fellow ? He
has been constant to me for seven years.'

Zeph, ray dear child, you sit far too much
in the house ! ' said Mrs. Treherne, who had
been in the study all day, but came into the
room where Zeph was, about six o'clock, and
found her looking pale and tired.

I suppose I do, mother ; I forgot to go out.'

Jack is going to take a book and a note to
Mr. Maxwell for your father after tea ; go with
him. You had much better do that. He is a
little boy to send so far alone, especially on a
Saturday night, and when he cannot go till
after eight.'

Mr. Maxwell lived in Kensington Square.
This was about a mile and a half from Lome
Gardens. Zeph was quite aware that if her
family had not been poor this note and book
would have been sent by post; but for once
she did not rail against poverty, for she felt
as if the air would do her good. ' I wonder
whether this is the last walk I shall ever take
as an entirely free, disengaged girl. Monday
evening will soon be here, and when it is over,
perhaps I shall have promised John to marry

him.' And then she began to plan costumes
which would not ruin him by costing a great
deal of money, but which would look well in
the second master's wife's pew, and make John
proud when he saw her from his stall.

Do I look nice, Jack ? ' she asked after a
long pause, during which her thoughts had
been busied thus.

Yes, you look all right.'

But am I what you would call a really
pretty girl ? You may say what you think — I
won't be cross.'

^ But I never think about it. Yes, you are
pretty — at least, I think you are ; and some of
the big fellows at our school say you are a real
stunner ! '

Which of them says that ? ' inquired Zeph
eagerly.

Ever so many of them have said so ; it's
no use bothering to remember their names.'

And I look pretty now ? ' asked Zeph, for
she recognised the hopelessness of extracting
further information.

Yes, you look well enough. But why do
you keep asking about that ? Who is going to
see you ? '

There Jack had touched a vital point of
complaint — Who indeed ? But Zeph recovered
herself quickly, for she had not been making
these inquiries merely for the gratification of
her vanity; she had been really anxious to
know what the boy thought, because she
wanted to have the satisfaction of feeling that
when she accepted poor dear John on Monday
next, he would be getting a good bargain.
Sydney Smith, foster-parent of all witty sayings,
has defined the feeling which prompts
men to marry as ' an insane desire to support
another man's daughter.' Zeph had never
heard of that saying, but her own view of
the proceeding when the man was, like John
Simonds, possessed only of a moderate competence,
was precisely the same. Had she
been in his place, would she have married ?
Would she have turned what might have been
a peaceful, pleasant home into a miserable

scene of struggle and discomfiture ? No, a
thousand times no ! She would have lived a
cheerful bachelor's life — have taken a delightful
bachelor's holiday, and have left marriage
to the rich folks of the earth and to the extremely
poor.

Here we are,' said Jack reproachfully,
and you have hardly said a word to me all
the way ! '

I am so sorry, dear. Let us talk now. I
feel much better than I did when we came out:
the air has done me good.'

'That's the garden we walked round and
round in the fog,' said Jack, pointing to the bit
of ground in the centre of Kensington Square.
How we did lose our way ! and you, Zeph,
went farther still — you walked as far as
Ambassadors' Gate ! I say, when we have
got rid of this book, let us just go over the
ground we went over that night and see how
we got wrong.'

All right,' said Zeph, who always indulged
Jack in his fancies. They did their best to

retrace their steps, though they could not be
quite sure that they always succeeded in doing
so.

That's the house where Mr. Daylesford
knocked when he wanted to find out where
we were,' observed Zeph when they reached
Number Five. 'What a splendid large house
it is!'

Mr. Daylesford's own house will be just as
splendid,' said Jack. ' Let us go and take a
look at it.'

What possible good will that do us ? '
Zeph exclaimed snappishly. She did not like
people to have such good houses.

Don't stop, please. Come, you might do
what one asks you, Zeph : he only lives six
doors farther on.'

Yes, but that's a long way ! Look what
great wide houses they all are ! ' but she let
him draw her on. Zeph and Jack always
walked hand in hand. The dining-room of
Number Eleven was lighted, and the Venetian
blinds on one side of the bay having been

carelessly drawn down, two gaps had been
left through which Jack could see a large
portion of the room. ' Oh, my wigs,' he exclaimed,
' what a swell dinner he has had ! He
must have had a party ! ' The street was deserted,
so Jack had mounted on the low bit of
stonework in which the iron rails were fixed.
Get up beside me, Zeph,' he whispered.
You will see a lot more if you do.'

She refused, but he teased her to do it, and
at last drew her up by the hand he held,
saying, ' Why shouldn't you have a look ?
no one, will see us — no one will ever know.
Do you see all those glass sugar-basins round
the table ^ What pretty colours they are ! '

Hush ! Those are finger-glasses. Jack,'
said Zeph, ashamed of him. Half a dozen
small lamps with pink shades stood on the
table, and showed the two children what to
their inexperienced eyes seemed a vision from
fairy-land. The most exquisite flowers and
fruit were beautifully arranged in lovely china
dishes and bowls. The silver, to their eyes,

accustomed only to the pewter-like appearance
of their own forks and spoons, seemed perfectly
dazzling. Everything was so good, so
pretty, and so tastefully arranged, that Zeph
drew a long breath of astonishment and
delight.

Are those great goblets real gold ? ' asked
the boy in amazement.

What lovely flowers ! ' exclaimed Zeph.
Do you know, Jack, all those in the tall vases
are orchids.'

What can he want with such a lot of
them ? ' muttered Jack. ' People can't eat
flowers. Oh, look, Zeph ; look at all those
smaller vases or things ; they are full, quite
full of flowers that he would have to give at
least a shilling apiece for ! I have seen them
in the shops with tickets to say what they cost.'

How lovely ! How I should have liked
to sit down to such a dinner as that ! ' said
Zeph ; and then she remembered that before
Mr. Daylesford sat down to it he would have
received her letter saying that she had been

dining out. If he lead discarded the idea of
a one-o'clock dinner party he had, perhaps,
imagined her as taking part in some such

entertainment as this, whereas but she

could not endure the thought of such a contrast,
and turned back to the rift in the blind
which showed her pleasant sights. The walls
were covered with water-colour drawings,
the

I say, Zeph,' exclaimed Jack, ' I had no
idea your Mr. Daylesford was such a swell !
He called me your nice little brother in his
letter, didn't he ? How I wish he would just
come out now and give me another half-sov. !
That's what I'd like ! Would you take one,
Zeph, if he offered one to you ? '

But Jack's words had recalled Zeph to a
consciousness of what she was doing, and she
was so dismayed at the idea of Mr. Daylesford
coming, that she had already retreated.

Jack followed her and said, ' Only eight
people have been having their dinner there !
I saw that by the way the table was laid.

VOL. I. H

What a lot of fuss for eight people ! By Jove,
Zeph, but lie would find a difference if he came
to dine with us ! '

Tears rose to Zeph's eyes. ' Dine with us !
No one can dine with us ! We don't dine,
child — we only take some food

Never mind,' said Jack ; ' I mean to work
very hard and get rich, and then I will have
you to live with me. You had better go and
take another look at that pretty dinner-table,
and then you will know how to have things set
out when you and I live together.'

'Dear little Jack said Zeph, stooping
down to kiss him.

I dare say you think that I shall never get
money enough for you to make things look as
well as that, but I really will work. And,
Zeph,' he added shyly, 'I am quite sure that
the masters think a great deal of me when I
do work. They all seemed to have a very
good opinion of my theme. I could see them
showing it to each other, and talking and looking
quite smiling and happy about it.'

Zeph began to think that when she married
John it would be very nice to get him to let
her have Jack to live with her. He could goto
the Grammar School ; John would then
teach him himself, and the dear handsome
little fellow would look very well sitting beside
her in the second master's wife's pew.

She went home in very good spirits. Some
people must be richer than others. It was
folly to make herself miserable because her lot
was cast among the poor ones. She might be
very happy at Alnminster with John.

She walked into the family sitting-room
with rosy cheeks and bright eyes. Agnes came
quickly to meet her, holding something carefully
concealed behind her back. ' Guess what
I have in my hand for you, Zeph. You shall
not have it till you do.'

Another letter from John Simonds ? ' said
Zeph, blushing very prettily, and holding out a
timid hand.

No. Guess again,' but Zeph could think
of nothing else ; so Agnes, who was too curious

h2

herself to wait any longer, thrust into her hand
another great square letter with ' Eleven Ambassadors'
Gate ' running across the back of the
envelope.

Dear me,' remarked Zeph, ' he is very
polite ; my note did not require an answer.'
But when she opened the letter, another order
for the ' Levity ' was inside it, and she read :
I am so sorry I did not give you a little more
time. I have been to the office, and have
secured the same box for Monday evening,
when I hope to have the pleasure of shaking
hands with your whole party.'

'whole party" means me,' said Jack.
That's nice ; but I do wonder what makes Mr.
Daylesford take so much trouble to be polite
to us.'

CHAPTER V.

A BIT OF WHITE PAPER.

Phil. — Now, by my life, this is unkindly done,
To vex me with thy sight — Pilaster.

Zeph had grumbled at having the drawing-room
turned into a workroom, but at nine
o'clock on Monday morning she herself was
sitting there, and every chair and table was
covered with some article of dress. There wa^i
even an iron at the fire, for Polly and Aggy
had behaved like lambs, and made no objection
to wearing the white dresses Zeph had prescribed,
provided only she herself wore the
same. Now they were ironing out every little
crease in them and smoothing folds; while she,
without consulting her mother, had made a
raid on her wardrobe and captured the black
silk, which was the only ' smart ' dress the poor

lady possessed, and was trying by means of
white lace and well-disposed bows of ribbon to
make a handsome evening dress of it. They
had as yet found no opportunity of telling Mrs.
Treherne about the theatre.

Suppose father won't let her go said
Polly.

then his heart must be more fell than
that of the Hyrcanian tiger ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
who had been reading Jack's 'Seven Champions
of Christendom,' one of the very few
books in the house within the range of her
comprehension.

'Oh, Zeph!' said Polly, 'he could not be
so cruel as to say no.'

We will have a cab from the very door,'
said Zeph, holding the dress off to have a good
look at it ; ' no omnibuses, no wretched makeshifts
with a bit of walking and a bit of railway,
but a cab the whole way! We shall never
have a box at the " Levity " again, so let us
enjoy this to the utmost. We can pay for the
cab ourselves. Oh, here is mother 1 ' But as

soon as Mrs. Treherne heard what they were
hoping to do, she at once declared that she
knew her husband would not be able to spare
her.

What have you come out of the study for
now ? ' asked Zeph.

A sandwich. He is hungry.'

Let me take it, and I'll ask him. We
must know at once

Impossible ! ' said Mr. Treherne when she
went ; ' I cannot possibly spare your mother.'

Have you anything very particular for her
to do ? I mean anything that must be done at
once.'

No, but I like to have her at hand.'

'It would do her good to go, and poor
mother would like it. She never stirs from
this room.'

'That can surely be no great hardship,
Zeph. I am sure your mother would not care
to go. I am quite sure she would rather stay
quietly here.' He honestly thought that his
wife devoted herself to his service from intense

love of the various employments he found for
her.

Dear father,' pleaded Zeph, ' will you do
us a very great favour ? Let us have mother
with us just this once, and we will not tease
you again ; and to make up for the loss of her
services, I shall be so pleased if you will tell
me anything I can do to help you. Is there
anything ? '

Well, if you really have nothing else todo,
and would like to do it very much ' — Mr.
Treherne always thought his assistants had a
supreme relish for these long tasks, — ' I have
some terriers which I should like copied.'

Father ! I cannot draw, especially dogs,'
said the dismayed Zeph.

He smiled a wan and weary smile, and
explained the meaning of the word. ' And I
want a good clean copy made of this bit of MS.
It is your poor dear mother's writing, and I
have had to correct it so much that I am afraid
the printers will not be able to make either
head or tail of it ! '

Zeph quailed a little, but when lie saw the
number of pages and the amount of work her
uncomplaining mother sometimes had to do,
her desire to relieve her of some part of it and
longing to help her to one evening's relaxation
and pleasure became so strong that she would
have done anything, and she said, ' I'll take
great pains, father.'

Indeed you must. Leave ample space
between the lines for any corrections I may
have to make. Your copy will have to be
carefully collated afterwards. Stay : perhaps
it is too hard for a beginner. I'U give you a
bit of my essay on Beowulf, to transcribe. If
you do it well you can do the more difficult
bit of writing tomorrow.'

Then mother may go ? '

You may ask her, but I don't believe you
will be able to persuade her. Now run away.
Zeph, my child, you have taken what might be
called a liberty in coming here.'

Zeph knew she had, and wondered at her
own daring ; none of Mr. Tree erne's children

had ever ventured so much before. ' Forgive
me,' said she, ' I know I have. Perhaps if I
copy your Big Wolf to your satisfaction you
will let me do something else.'

Yes,' he replied, with a smile of quiet
amusement ; ' but you had better look carefully
at your hero's name.'

Victory ! ' cried Zeph on her return to the
drawing-room, and she brandished the bit of
MS. she had undertaken to copy. She began
to write at once, and found she got on very
well. This gave her courage, and she wrote
for some hours. Her many occupations left
her very little time to think of John, or to feel
regret at having to break her appointment
with him. She contrived, however, to write a
few lines to tell him that they would all be out
that evening, but that she hoped to see him
the following day, and, that done, she was
content to wait.

All the three girls looked well in their
quiet white dresses, and Zeph superlatively so.
Mrs. Treherne had pulled out an old Spanish

mantilla which had been part of her dower,
and this made her look quite handsome.
While Jack was fetching a cab, Zeph addressed
a solemn appeal to her sisters. ' Promise me,
do promise me,' said she, ' to be very quiet ;
and oh, Polly, if you could but force yourself
to say Agnes instead of Aggy, it would make
such a difference ! '

Oh the joy of that evening ! Never was a
box better bestowed. They were all eyes, all
ears, all happiness. They had excellent places.
Zeph had a slight knowledge of the play from
having once read it; her sisters had not the
same advantage.

Will that young man called Hamlet appear
often in this piece? ' inquired Agnes. ' I hope
not, I am sure, for I don't like him. He makes
himself disagreeable to every one ; he seems
to have no regulation in his mind.'

Mrs. Treherne glanced anxiously at Zeph,
but she had not heard this speech, for just at
this moment she had seen Mr. Daylesford bowing
to her from a stall immediately below. Two

or three very distinguished-looking men were
with him. Zeph thought he must have said
something about her to them, for after a short
pause they looked up at the box where she
was, and their eyes seemed to wander from
face to face until they saw hers. But after a
brief survey of the house, the stage engrossed
all her attention. Had she looked about more
she might have seen many on opera-glass turned
in her direction. She was certainly right in
one thing — she had but to be seen to be
admired. When the curtain had fallen after
the first act, Mr. Daylesford came to their box.
After introducing him to her mother and sisters,
Zeph said, ' Thank you so much for the pleasure
you have given us : I never was so happy in
my life ! '

I am glad you are enjoying the play

I never enjoyed anything so much in my
life. It has driven everything else out of my
mind. Does it make you feel like that ? '

I am afraid not quite.'

She looked up in his face and saw that he

was smiling, but it was a smile of kindly sympathy.
He was infinitely handsomer than she
had believed. He had gay laughing eyes, and
often smiled ; but in spite of this his manner
was somewhat grave and reserved, and there
was something about him which made Zeph
afraid of him.

Do you Hke the play ? ' he asked Agnes.

Yes, all but that young man called Hamlet,'
she replied ; ' he makes himself so disagreeable
that I cannot bring myself to like
him.'

Hush, Agnes ! ' said Polly, who saw that
Zeph was looking much distressed, ' don't talk
that way ! It's natural he should look like
that. Depend upon it, he's the rightful heir.'

The tips of Zeph's ears grew crimson, and
she began to talk almost at random — anything
to silence those girls. ' Oh, everything is delightful,
perfectly delightful. The only thing
that stops me enjoying myself is thinking that
the time must soon come when it will be over,'
said she.

But there are other things to see. They
are playing " The Rivals " now : have you seen
that ? '

Zeph drew back. She was proud, and
afraid that she had bewailed the dulness of her
life so much to him that now he was charitably
trying to make it a Httle better for her.
I think I gave you too bad an idea of my
life,' she said, almost putting her thoughts into
words. ' I am happy enough.'

Tell me what you do all day.'

That was difficult, for she did so little. ' I
get up and have my breakfast — don't laugh at
me — I know it sounds silly.'

Of course not. And then ? '

I mend my gloves, or do some work, or
perhaps read a little, and then I go out walking.'


Where do you walk ? '

Near home somewhere — just in the
streets.'
^ ' And then you go home to luncheon .^ '

Yes.'

To dinner he ought to have said, but Zephyrs
foolishly afraid to tell him so.

And after luncheon ? '

I spend my time much as I spend it in the
morning.'

Do you subscribe to a library ? '

'No.'

Do you play tennis ? '

'No.'

Are you fond of dancing ? '

Oh, Mr. Daylesford, I am fond of a great
many things that I cannot have. My father is
very poor, and it is just as much as he can do
to make a home for us. He cannot let us have
expensive pleasures ! '

Every now and then Zeph's true nature
asserted itself. She was naturally perfectly
honest and straightforward, and detested all
subterfuges and pretence of being other than
she really was, but she was so shy and unused
to society, and so entirely ignorant of it and
its ways, that she was afraid to tell people
the truth about her mode of life lest they

should one and all turn from her in contempt.
Whenever her feelings were really touched she
was good, true, kind, and entirely honest. He
looked at her pityingly. To one who knows
life, and what sadness it has in its keeping for
almost every one as years wear on, there is
something profoundly touching in the idea of
any young creature not enjoying it at its very
outset, when the power of enjoyment is the
greatest. He was silent — so silent that she
looked at him and saw what she almost expected
to see — his eyes bent on her in regretful
sympathy. 'I know what you are thinking,'
said she, ' and I wish you wouldn't.'

Wouldn't do what ? ' he asked, smiling.
She could not help admiring his smile.

Pity me. I hate to be pitied.'

'I am not pitying you,' said he, but she
knew he was.

I was very happy to-day,' she continued,
being resolved to put a good face on it. 'I
had something given me to do which I
thought I should detest, but instead of that,

when once I found I could do it, I really liked
it.'

'What was that?'

I had a bit of manuscript to copy for father.'


And it was amusing ? '

Amusing ! It was all about a king called
Beowulf By-the-bye, would you have known
that a terrier was not a dog? At first my
father wanted me to copy a terrier, or many
terriers, and I said I could not draw dogs '

Do excuse me, but is your father the Mr.
Treherne ? Has he edited a number of books
for the Sermon Society, and is he a great
genealogist ? '

Yes — do you know him ? '

'I know his name perfectly, and I have
seen some of his books. I have heard him
spoken of with the greatest respect — especially
as an antiquary. I have heard my tutor talk
of him, and my grandfather must have known
him, or at all events his books.'

Did your grandfather write too ? ' inquired

VOL. I. I

Zeph. She had just become aware that her
mother and sisters had ceased to talk to each
other, and were now, most probably, hearing
every word that passed, which made her shy.

'No, he didn't write, but he knew a great
deal about books. He had a very valuable
collection of old books, and some that were
unique. He was much more competent to
appreciate your father's works than I. Your
father will know all about the Berkhampstead
Collection.'

I dare say he will, but I Oh, perhaps

mother will know. — Mother,' said Zeph, interrupting
a new conversation between Mrs. Tree
and Polly — ' mother, did you ever hear
father speak of the Berkhampstead Collection?'


Mrs. Treherne's eyes flashed at once. Meek
woman though she was, she shared all her
husband's feelings. ' The Berkhampstead Collection
! Of course I have. It has been one
of the greatest vexations of your poor dear
father's life. Only this very day he has been

lamenting to me that he cannot get access toit
— he has a book now going through the press,
and all kinds of information which would be
perfectly invaluable to him is shut up from
him by the churlishness of the Berkhampstead
family. The old lord, who died a few years
ago, was just as bad as the present head of the

house : he never would allow any one to

My dear Zeph, don't look at me in that way.
What I say is perfectly true ; I am only repeating
what I have heard your father say a thousand
times. They have a large muniment
room — that's what he calls it — and it is
crammed with documents which would throw

light Zeph, I do wish you would not.

Can I be saying something wrong ? '

Zeph's signal of distress had at length made
even Mrs. Treherne see that she must be making
some terrible mistake.

Mother dear,' said Zeph, who at last ventured
to speak, 'Lord Berkhampstead was, I
think, or is, Mr. Daylesford's father.'

Mrs. Treherne looked much shocked. Mr.

I 2

Daylesford hastened to speak. ' He was my
grandfather, and I know that he was in very
bad odour with antiquaries ; but I believe he
did not refuse them the use of his stores from
harshness. It was not that — it was simply
that his collections were so large that he himself
hardly knew what he had. He wanted to
have his MSS. and other things catalogued and
arranged before he let strangers have the run
of them. At one time he did employ a gentleman
to do this, and the first thing this person
did when established in the muniment room
was to discover a deed or a duplicate deed which
showed that my grandfather and his ancestors
had, for I don't know how many years, omitted
to pay about %sq hundred a year to a school in
the neighbouring town. My grandfather naturally
felt obliged to pay it, so he found himself
a good deal poorer for this first antiquary's
visit, and declined to receive any more.'

I beg your pardon, Mr. Daylesford : do
forgive me,' said Mrs. Treherne. ' I am sure I
should have kept them all out of my house

after that, if I had been in Lord Berkhampstead's
place.'

Zeph heard Agnes murmuring, ' Lord Berk-hampstead
! Lord Berkhampstead ! ' in soft
and rapturous accents, and was glad when the
fourth act began and Mr. Daylesford went
back to his seat.

Oh, Zeph, did you hear ? His grandfather
was a lord ! ' whispered Polly. ' Think of
your having walked home with a lord's grandson!
'

What a pity you did not know it at the
time ! ' said Aggy.

Don't be so shockingly vulgar, girls,' exclaimed
Mrs. Treherne, and thought she had
eradicated that distasteful vice.

At length the play all but came to an end.
Oh, how they do go dying one after another ! '
observed Agnes. ' I don't wonder they never
seem to think of calling in a medical man, for
if they did he would not know which of them
to attend to first.'

'Don't make a stupid speech like that to

Mr. Daylesford if he comes back pleaded
Zeph.

^ I shall not make any speech at all to him.
I hope he will keep away ! I don't like such
distinguished personages. I am much happier
with plain people like the Simonides : they
are more like ourselves, and much pleasant
to be with than '

Mr. Daylesford came back before Polly had
quite finished her speech. The sisters looked
anxiously in his face to see if he had heard it,
but he did not seem to have done so. It was
time to go, and Mrs. Treherne was beginning
to shroud her head in a white woollen handkerchief.
He said to her, ' You told me a
short time ago that Mr. Treherne was much
inconvenienced for want of an immediate sight
of some deeds in the Berkhampstead muniment
room. I shall be delighted to afford him the
opportunity he wants. Berkhampstead Castle,
of course, belongs to my brother— I am only
a younger brother ; but as he is not in
England — you know, I dare say, that he is

Governor of the Icarian Islands— I go therefrom
time to time to look after things for him
and he allows me to consider it my home
when I am not in London. I think you said
that time was of some importance to Mr.
Treherne. I am going there tomorrow to
stay till Friday, and shall be very glad if he
will accompany me and stay while I am there.'

Mrs. Treherne looked more and more
alarmed : her husband had not been out of
London for years. She was voluble in her
thanks, but hardly thought he would be able
to go, i,e, could be induced to leave his
den.

Mr. Daylesford made her take his arm,
and repeated the invitation as they went to
the door. ' Will you tell him what I say ?
Will you also say that if he will go I will call
for him at twelve o'clock tomorrow morning ?
I am going to drive there for once. Ask him
to be punctual, as my horses won't wait, or
perhaps it is my coachman ; and there is
another thing I must ask you to say, and tha:}

is, if he kindly consents to come, I expect him
to bring you and Miss Treherne with him, and
then I shall know that he has his two best
assistants at hand.'

Zeph's heart stood still in astonishment and
delight, and then she reflected that this most
delightful invitation might never have been
given if she had not chanced to do a good
action that day. Her offer to do some writing
for her father had brought it all about. Would
he go ? Mrs. Treherne did not know, but was
sure that he would feel very much tempted.
Finally it was settled that Mr. Daylesford
should drive round by Lome Gardens, anyhow,
and that Mrs. Treherne and Josephine would
glady go if Mr. Treherne did. Mr. Daylesford
sent them home in his carriage, and himself
went in a hansom.

Oh, Zeph ! ' gasped Polly as she sank back
in the carriage and it drove off, * what a night
we have had! And he has actually lent us
this beautiful carriage! What things have
happened I *

Haven't they ! ' echoed Aggy. ' I have
been so happy ever since I left our house ! '

And how kind he is, and thoughtful, and
how beautifully handsome, and how pretty that
foreign accent is ! '

They had all so much to think of, and so
many questions of ways and means to consider,
that they were in their own street before they
thought they had gone halfway. They were
not only in a whirl of excitement, but in a
bewilderment of wonder as to how the family
could be made presentable enough to visit in a
castle, and in so short a space of time, too !
All must be done before twelve o'clock next
morning.

'But I am certain your poor dear father
will not go,' said Mrs. Treherne every ten
minutes. Her warning only abated the tumult
of discussion for a few seconds, and then it
raged as hotly as before. How astonished
they were when the carriage stopped !

Go and tell father at once, and get him to
give an answer,' said Zeph. ' We must know

to-night, for we shall have to begin to pack,
and most likely to do some sewing. Don't let
father refuse : do, please, try hard to make him
go ; and if he says yes, and he won't let you
come out of the study to tell us, just push a bit
of white paper under the door, and then we
shall know.'

Jack let them into the house with a latchkey,
and Mrs. Treherne at once hurried to the
study, where she knew she should find her husband.
Polly and Agnes followed her into the
house. Zeph, after waiting a minute to seethe
carriage turn and drive away, was just
about to follow too, when a dark figure, which
she had not observed, came quickly towards
her and said, ' At last you are here ! '

It was John Simonds. His words were ill
chosen. She did not want to be there. She
had enjoyed her evening so much that she felt
sorry to lose sight of the carriage, and to feel
that all was over and she was consigned to her
home again. John Simonds ! How strange it
was to see him! Those happy hours, during

which she had never once thought of him,
seemed to have divided them by years.

John ! You here ! ' said she, stopping
suddenly short, with her foot on the first step,
to look at his pale tired face and bright eager
eyes.

Of course I am here ! I wanted to see
you for a moment, Zeph, if I could not do
more. You know I was to come to-night to
learn your answer.'

It was almost cruel of John to take her
so by surprise — that was what she felt. She
stood looking at him, full of uncertainty.

Well, dear Zeph, won't you speak? '

Oh, don't ask me to speak now, John ;
how can I ? For the last five hours my head
has been filled with such entirely different
things.'

My dear Zeph,' said he in grave surprise,
have you not had all these days that I have
been away to think ? Be kind and give me an
answer. I am not made of stone.'

Don't talk that way, John, I entreat you.

I must have more time. Give me one week
from this evening, and then I promise you most
faithfully to give you an answer.'

John almost reeled, the shock of this disappointment
was so great. She had all but
accepted him a few days before, and now she
spoke thus. She saw the misery in his face,
and it cut her to the heart.

Dear John,' she exclaimed, ' don't be angry
with me : I am behaving ill, I know ; but
indeed I cannot help it. I cannot quite make
make up my mind now ; that's all.'

'But is it really all? Be true, Zeph, at
any cost. Is there any one whom you like
better?'

No ; I swear there is not.'

Is there any one whom you are weighing
in the balance with me ? '

'Most certainly not. You are the only
man who cares for me, and the only one I care
for ; there is no one whom I like half so well
as you.'

Zeph ! Zeph ! Zeph ! ' cried Jack in a low

clear voice from behind the door; and she
could hear him fingering the chain impatiently
as he spoke, and making so much noise that
it was a wonder he did not bring his father out.

Yes, I am coming. I must go said she.
Don't be unhappy, John, and don't think me
unkind.'

I must say this '

'Don't say anything more now. Jack is
calling me, and father will hear him and come.
I really must go.'

In spite of Zeph's alarm, John was just
going to utter a very strong protest against her
conduct, when she darted up the steep flight of
steps and was gone. She felt very sorry for
him, but the thought that she had now a whole
week before her in which to decide this soon
made her hight-hearted again. He was a dear
kind fellow, and very much in love with her ;
he would not consider it too much to wait one
short week for her answer. She locked the
house door with more noise than was altogether
prudent, considering how important it was that

her father should be in a good humour, but
she was too nervous to do it quietly. She
turned to go upstairs. One small lamp hung
on the wall and partially lighted the dark
brown-looking passage. As she was passing
the study door, with, to do her justice, her
mind so full of what had just taken place that
she had all but forgotten Mr. Daylesford's invitation,
she heard a rustling sound, and saw that
a long piece of white paper was being slowly
pushed under the door.

CHAPTER VI.

THE LITTLE brown MAN.

Quoi I Lisette, est-ce vous ?

Vous, en riche toilette !
Vous, avec des Mjoux !

Vous, avec une aigrette ! — Beeangee.

If any one had told Zeph twenty-four hours
before that at twelve o'clock next mormug she
would be seated in Mr. Daylesford's carriage
with her father and mother and on her way to
Berkhampstead Castle, she would have regarded
the idea as incredible. Her father never went
anywhere ; yet he was sitting opposite to her
now, looking rather pale and weary, it is true,
and not the kind of person who ought to be
exposed to full daylight or the open air, but
very different from the recluse of Lome Gardens.
Mrs. Treherne looked modestly elated, and was

showing much interest in the route they were
to take. Zeph gazed regretfully at the steps
where she had stood so recently with poor
John. She hoped he did not think that she
had been very unkind to him ; if he did, she
must be doubly kind some day. But all these
gentler thoughts were forced out of her mind in
an instant when the carriage drove off, and she
saw that it was going to pass those shops which
did so much to embitter her existence. Would
those odious winter trouserings still be lying
ticketed in the windows Would those yet
more odious made-up garments at 
a pair still be hanging in a row above it,
clamouring for people to give them one trial ?
The confectioner's shop, with Madeira cakes
covered with something that looked like strips
of wet leather, and plates laden with edibles
ticketed as ' little seedy biscuits,' was the first
that they came to, but Mr. Daylesford's head
was turned another way. She bent forward
as they came to the next shop and barred
him from the sight of it. That terrible danger

i

was safely overcast, and so was J. Ward's most
obtrusive shoe-shop. If Mr. Daylesford had
seen it, would he have thought she was wearing
Ward's Lady's Button Kid ' at 75. M., or the
'Health Boot'? 'J. Ward's Gent's Elastic
Sides at 7^. 6c?. are a wonder ; ' but Mr.
Daylesford did not see them, and in three
minutes more the carriage had reached a point
so distant from Lome Gardens that responsibility
for the neighbourhood no longer rested
on her. Then she remembered John. She did
not repent what she had said to him, but she
felt she might have spoken more kindly. She
would have been unhappy about this a great
part of the day if she had not resolved to write
to him as soon as she reached the castle. She
was very tired. She had sat up for hours after
her return from the theatre, making such preparations
for the visit that she was about to
pay as were in her power, and even when she
did go to bed she could not sleep. She felt
very drowsy now, and often found that she
had entirely lost the thread of the conversation.

VOL. I. K

Was that her quiet father talking so much and so
well? Mr. Daylesford appeared to be enjoying
his conversation immensely ; Mrs. Treherne was
sitting smiling and looking thoroughly proud
and happy. She did so delight in seeing her
husband ' take his proper place in society.'
Zeph was too sleepy to know much about what
was being said. Sometimes she heard snatches
of what seemed to be most intimate conversation,
and Mr. Daylesford seemed to be making
very confidential communications ; but she
could not rouse herself to endeavour to hear
more. ' That, as you know, is what the law has
decreed ; but I, of course, refuse to abide by it.
My brother can't take the title, and I won't.
We still look forward to some evidence turning
up to prove what we are already convinced of:
but Blackmore's death has made everything so
difficult ; he alone knew where the papers were
deposited, and he was cut off so suddenly that
he had not time to say a word,' said Mr. Dales
; and this and her father's answer were all
she heard with any accuracy.

I entirely respect the line of conduct you
have adopted,' replied Mr. Treherne. ' I hope
and trust your devotion to your mother maybe
rewarded.'

'What is Mr. Daylesford to be rewarded
for?' asked Zeph, when she and her mother
were alone together for a while in the inn,
where they had stopped to change horses and
have luncheon.

For his noble regard for his mothers good
name. What would be a reward to him,
though, would be a punishment to a baser
man. His earnest wish is to prove that he
has no right to the Berkhampstead title and
estates

'I wish you would explain a little,' said
Zeph. 'I thought he was only the second
son.'

'I will so far as I understand the story
myself. The late Lord Berkhampstead was a
very stern, unforgiving man, and he had an
only son, who ' but here she was interrupted
by the return of the gentlemen.

They reached their journey's end just before
sunset. The extent of the park, the length of
the avenue, and the blackness of the fine old
trees seen against the dusky red and orange in
the sky were very starting and impressive to
Zeph, who had never seen anything of the kind
before. She wondered how her father could
go on talking so calmly to Mr. Daylesford ; if
all this were his, he must be a very great
gentleman indeed. The castle was a remarkably
handsome building — some of it was really
old, and the rest a modern imitation of a
feudal fortress. It was large and rambling,
and looked very gloomy in the fast-fading
light. Much of it was covered with a heavy
growth of ivy.

The carriage stopped. A most venerable
old gentleman stood waiting on the steps to
receive them. Zeph wondered if he were the
bishop of the diocese. He came forward and
said something to Mr. Daylesford, of which she
heard nothing but the words ' your lordship,'
on which Mr. Daylesford said rather sharply,

Tompkins, I thought you understood that I
was never to be addressed by that title ? '
Tompkins muttered some excuse, and Undiscovered
that he was the butler. Other
servants were there, chief among whom was
a dignified personage who wore a great deal
of jewellery, and was evidently the housekeeper.
She at once proposed to take Zeph and her
mother to their rooms. They passed through
two magnificent halls, dark with oak panelling,
and decorated with pictures and armour ; then
they came to an old oak staircase, whose steps
were so easy that the ascent was positively
restful. .But life-sized portraits of dead-antigone
Daylesfords hung on the walls by the side
of the stairs, and every three or four steps she
went Zeph found herself standing exactly on a
level either with a portrait of some mail-clad
warrior or silken-doublet cavalier, a rigidly
correct-looking, long-waisted lady, or a smiling
and less correct-looking lady painted by Sir
Peter Lely. They alarmed her, they seemed
to be standing so close by her side, and one

and all to be scornfully wondering what possible
right that insignificant ill-dressed Httle
person could have to set her feet where theirs
had once trod. Then Mrs. Sanderson led Zealand
her mother to a wide corridor with more
pictures and more armour, and finally to yet another
panelled with oak, and here she opened a
door and said to Mrs. Treherne, ' This, madam,
is your apartment.' It was a large room, with
massive furniture, and a blazing fire which just
served to show that it was hung with tapestry.
This represented some scene in a forest, with a
number of figures which stood out from the
dark background like ghosts. Mrs. Sanderson
lighted the candles on the dressing-table, and
then opened a door near the fireplace and said,
That is Mr. Treherne's dressing-room ; and
here, madam,' she continued, lifting up a corner
of the tapestry on the other side, ' you will find
a very pleasant little sitting-room.

Oh, thank you,' said Mrs. Treherne, much
more promptly than Zeph could have done.
She had been accustomed to better things in

her youth, but Zeph was simply amazed. When
they were cold at 5 Lome Gardens, what
anxious thought was always given to the question
whether it would be right to allow themselves
the comfort of a fire or not, before they
yielded to their desire ! Fires were burning in
all three rooms here. All were hung with
tapestry. Zeph was glad she had not to sleep
in any of them. By this dim light those pale
ghosts on the walls looked as if they had been
driven there by some spell, but would much
rather be down in the room and at liberty.
She would be terrified if she were shut up all
night vrith such half-banished creatures.

Now let me show you Miss Treherne's
sleeping apartment,' said Mrs. Sanderson.

'It's not very far from my mother's, I
hope,' said Zeph fervently.

Oh no, ma'am,' said Mrs. Sanderson, but
she walked as it seemed a long way farther.
It's the size of the rooms makes it seem
so far. There is nothing but Mrs. Treherne's
bedroom and sitting-room, and one spare

room, which has not been occupied for a very
long time, between you.'

There was no tapestry in Zeph's room, and
there was a most cheerful fire. An easy chair
was drawn near it, and a table with writing
materials and some railway novels. She felt
quite relieved ; it was a room in which she
could be happy.

I will return in twenty minutes' time,
ma'am,' said the housekeeper, ' and show you
your way to the drawing-room — unless you
would prefer having a cup of tea here in your
own room ? '

'I'd rather go down, thank you,' said Zealand
then another servant came and offered to
unpack her modest trunk. 'How delicious
this is ! ' thought Zeph as she sat by the fire,
and saw the maid laying her white muslin dress
ready for dinner. ' Father is fond of telling a
story about some one who lived long, long ago,
and was called Eobert de Insula; how, when
he became a great man and a bishop, he set up
his mother in state and plenty too ; and how

she did not really like it, and after a while
entreated him to take back all the money and
servants with which he had burdened her,
for the shameful obedience of the servants
made her miserable ! What a fool she must
have been ! How I should enjoy being tried !
I'd never complain of having pleasant-spoken
servants at hand, ready to do everything disagreeable.'


She had rested so much during the journey
that now she felt no fatigue. She tripped downstairs,
looking fresh and beautiful as ever. Tea
was ready. The moment he saw her, Mr.
Daylesford exclaimed —

'Eead this, Miss Treherne, and tell me
what answer you would like me to give.' It
was a note from Mrs. Vincent, a neighbour
of Mr. Daylesford's. She had, she said, just
heard of his being expected at the castle with
some friends, and she hoped that he and they
• would honour her with their presence at a
fancy ball on the following evening. Zeph's
heart sank. It would have been such a delight

to go — but it was simply impossible. How
hard it was to have such a delicious opportunity
and yet be obliged to forego it ! ' Well,' said
Mr. Daylesford, who had been watching all the
variations of the poor girl's face, 'what shall
I say?'

'I am afraid,' said Zeph very humbly, 'that
you must not think of taking me. It is very
good of you to do so, but it is quite impossible
for me to go. Don't you see that people are
to wear fancy dress ? '

Oh, are they ? ' said Mrs. Treherne. ' Then,
my dear Zeph, I really am afraid that you must
decline this pleasure.'

A fancy dress can very easily be found in
this house if you are inclined to go, Miss Tree
he said cheerily.

Zeph looked up with eager, questioning,
but somewhat incredulous eyes.

'You must talk to Mrs. Sanderson; she
has twenty or thirty dresses in her charge
belonging to the different ladies whose portraits
you see. Stay: I think it would perhaps be

better still if you were to inspect the pictures
themselves, and then ask her for a dress as
nearly like that you most admire as she can
produce. There is a very pretty Sir Joshua
costume which I know she has. It was one
worn by my great-grandmother. After all, I
really believe that would suit you best.'

But would it be the right kind of dress ? '
said Zeph, who of course knew nothing of such
things.

Why, what could you have better? Everything
she wore when she sat to Sir Joshua is
here, I know, and you have the portrait to
guide you if you have any difficulty about putting
the things on. Drink your tea, and let us
go and look ; only we shall have to choose a
dress for Mrs. Treherne too — that is, if she has
nothing suitable with her, and will condescend
to rely on the resources of the house.'

'Thank you,' said Mr. Treherne firmly,
my wife never goes out in the evening ; she
does not like it.' Two large tears formed in
Zeph's eyes.

Don't,' whispered Mr. Daylesford kindly ;
I will soon find you a chaperon. Let us go
and look at the Sir Joshua.'

Mr. and Mrs. Treherne were tired, so he
and Zeph went alone.

You are very kind to me,' she said simply.

'No, I am not. I want you to go. I want
you to have this pleasure, and I shall enjoy it
myself if you are there.'

But if mother is not to go ? '

The clergyman here and his wife are sure
to be invited; I'll ask them to dine with us,
and we'll all go together.'

She looked at the pictures on the stairs as
she passed them with an air of something very
like apprehension.

Are you afraid of them ? ' he asked.

'Almost. They make me uncomfortable
somehow. If they were hung a little higher I
should not mind, but they seem to be standing
on the same step with me.'

What a timid young lady you are ! Don't
think of them. I want to see if Phillis Arnold's

dress strikes you as suitable.' He stopped at
almost the last portrait on the stairs. It was a
beautiful picture of a most beautiful woman.
She was standing by a large tree at the end of
a terrace looking pensively at a somewhat uninteresting
sunset, but her figure was slim and
graceful, and her face strangely pathetic. Her
dress was a very pretty light blue brocade,
caught crosswise on the breast, and lovely laces
fell from it in sympathy with the lines of her
figure, and were fastened on her shoulder by
pretty pearl ornaments.

Poor little PhiUis,' said he, ' she had little
need of ball dresses for herself. When she was
young and beautiful no one would visit her.
She was a farmer's daughter, and my great-grandfather
married her.' Zeph did not speak,
but he could see that she was interested. ' If
he had been Lord Berkhampstead when he
married her every one would have been glad to
welcome her, but he was only plain Mr. Dales
very poor, and with no expectation
whatever of ever succeeding to the title. He

lived in our market town, and not only did all
the great ladies of the neighbourhood stand
aloof — which was, perhaps, not to be wondered
at — but all the little townsmen's silly wives
tossed their heads too, and pretended to despise
her. When he very unexpectedly became
head of the family it was a different thing;
they would have come to pay their respects to
her here on their bended knees, but then it
was too late. He shut his doors to every one
who lived in the neighbourhood, and even
when his wife died, he would not let her be
buried where any of these people ever came.
They had refused to go near her when she was
alive, he said, and they should not have the
chance of doing so when she was dead. Do
you like that little story ? ' he inquired, seeing
how earnestly she was listening, and how grave
her eyes had grown.

I do. I like his being so true to her.'
I have always heard that she was a very
sweet creature — most sweet, indeed, and most
beautiful ; I think you rather resemble her. I

feel as if I should like you to wear her
dress.'

Thank you,' replied Zeph humbly.

Then I shall order Mrs. Sanderson to seek
it out immediately, and lay it and everything
belonging to it in your room : I have a fancy
to see how you look in it. I wish you would
wear it at dinner to-night, and then we can ail
criticise you, and choose another dress if this is
not as becoming as it ought to be.'

Zeph would never have dreamed of opposing
him ; he was very kind to her, and he
was lord of all there. But she ventured to
express one doubt : ' Shall I not feel very much
out of place at such a large ball .^ You know,
j\Ir. Daylesford, how unaccustomed I am to
anything of the kind. Suppose the great ladies
at Ever Green treat me as their grandmothers
and great-grandmothers treated poor Phillis
Arnold, if I may be allowed to call her so. I
shall be very miserable if they do. You had
better let me stay at home — I shall know no
one but you.'

You are sure to be introduced to a lot of
people directly, and you must promise to dance
the first two dances with me. I know you
will enjoy yourself.'

When Zeph went to dress for dinner, Phillis
Arnold's braveries were all laid ready for her
to put on, and a very pretty maid came to help
her to dress. Zeph was glad of her assistance.
I am to wear this at a fancy ball tomorrow
night,' said she by way of explanation, 'and we
want to see if it is becoming.'

'It's rather a curious make of dress, ma'am,'
said Lydia, the maid.

Yes ; but you had better go and look at
the portrait at the head of the stairs — that of
the lady wearing this very dress— and then
you will see how it has to be put on ; and,
Lydia, please notice how her hair is done, for
mine will have to be exactly like it.'

It's Phillis Arnold's portrait,' said Lydia
with much interest when she returned, ' her
that was a poor girl to begin with, but became
Lady Berkhampstead before she died ! '

You know about her, then ? '

'Yes,' said the girl, 'we all know about
her. What a heathenish thing it was to bury
her where they did ! I don't call that a proper
burying myself. I don't believe people buried
in that way can ever he really quiet.'

But what do you mean ? Where did they
bury her ? ' said Zeph, who had not understood
from what Mr. Daylesford had said that there
had been anything specially remarkable in her
interment except that she had been laid to rest
far away from every one who had ever flouted
her.

In the garden, ma'am. You can just seethe
place from your windows.' Lydia went to
one of the windows, and lifted the curtains and
blind; and Zeph saw four tall cypresses, and
between them was a low slab of stone, now
white as silver in the moonlight. ' They might
as well have given the poor ]lady a Christian
burial when they were about it,' said Lydia.

Yes, I think so,' replied Zeph ; ' but surely
we ought to begin.'

A^OL. I. L

Not even interest in a pathetic story could
make her neglect the important business which
lay before her.

Perfect I ' exclaimed Daylesford when Reentered
the room. ' Absolutely perfect ! My
dear Miss Treherne, I shall be a proud man tomorrow
evening when I enter the ball-room
with you 1 '

'- You look very well, dear Zeph,' said Mr,
Treherne : fathers do not rise to such heights
of approval as young stranger gentlemen.

Daylesford was sincere in his admiration.
Up to this time he had looked on Zeph as one
of the most beautiful girls he had ever seen,
but in that dress she was matchless. Each
attire enhanced her charms in a way which
her own poor washed muslins had no chance
of doing. The touch of strangeness, too, was
given by the old-world apparel — he could not
take his eyes off her.

'Will all the ladies at the ball wear as interesting
dresses as that ? ' asked Mrs. Treherne,
with a slight tone of longing in her voice.

Zeph detected it at once — her mother
wished to go. ' Father,' said she, ' do let my
mother go with me.'

Zeph ! ' replied Mr. Treherne, ' I do wish
you would not tease your mother by these
perpetual requests. You must know how she
dishes going out — you worry her.'

I could not leave your father ' began

Mrs. Treherne.

Of course not,' interrupted Mr. Treherne ;
and yet Zeph knew that all her mother would
have to do would be to hand him a pen or
find a page of manuscript, and perhaps not
even so much as that.

The evening was very pleasant, more than
pleasant to Zeph. Never before had she been
so becomingly dressed, never had she felt that
her beauty was a strong and firmly established
power. Mr. Daylesford's manner had changed
to her, and had become markedly deferential.

Every one was tired with the long drive
but herself, and a little before eleven all were
ready to go to bed.

L 2

Good night,' said Mr. Daylesford to Zeph.
By this time tomorrow we shall be at Ever
Green. Your dress suits you to perfection ! '

Her dress ! She had begun to feel so
happy and at home in the lovely blue brocade
that she had almost forgotten poor Phillis
Arnold and her sad little story. Now, though
Mrs. Treherne was talking all the way upstairs,
Zeph only gave distracted answers ;
those words brought it back to her mind.

Good night, dear,' said Mrs. Treherne
when she reached the door of her room.
'Come to me if you want anything. I daresay
I shall not be in bed for an hour or two —
I never do go till your father does, and then I
know he cannot want anything more.'

Good night, mother: you look such a lady,
dear ! I am so glad we made you have that
dress.' For that very morning, before they set
out on the journey, the girls had insisted on
their mother taking a cab and going with all
speed to a good shop in Oxford Street, and
buying herself a handsome dress. Now Methought

Mrs. Treherne would grace any table,
and she was proud of her.

She was intending to write to John before
she went to bed — she knew that she should
find writing materials in her room ; but Ashen
she got there she went and sat down by the
fire, put her feet in the strange high-heeled
shoes on the fender, and admired them, and the
colour of her silk stockings and all the splendours
of her apparel. ' Dress does make a difference
! ' she thought. ' How much nicer Mr.
Daylesford has grown to me ! It would be
delightful to know that I should always be as
well dressed as I am now.' She forgot to
write to John, or even to think of him. She
forgot that she had never made her mother tell
her about the mystery of the late Lord Berk-hampstead's
marriage, and why Mr. Daylesford
would not assume the title; she sat holding up her
arm and admiring her gloves and bracelets, and
the wondrous fineness of Phillis's laces, and the
sit of her dress, and thinking of the ball that was
coming, till a clock she had not noticed before

told her that it was half-past twelve. So late !
She must go to bed, or where would be the
triumph that was to be hers tomorrow ? Suddenly
the thought struck her — surely it is almost
treason to poor Phillis to take her pretty
dress to a great gay ball, when she herself
had never been allowed to go to one ? Zeph
sighed. She could not renounce her intention,
but she wondered if it were right to persist in
it. The wind had risen while she had been
thinking ; she heard it moaning outside ; the
lire was burning low. It was time to go to
bed. She rose wearily, turned, and for the
first time was alarmed by the ghostly aspect
of her room. There was a tall four-post bed
with heavy curtains ! it was as large as the
whole of her bedroom at home, and looked
as if no one had occupied it for a century.
There were two wardrobes, black-looking and
enormous. One she had seen open, and she
knew that it held her own slender provision
of garments ; but the other was still unexplored
and the idea alarmed her ; and yet she

would not have opened k now for the worlcL
There was a large cheval glass, too, which
appalled her, it was so large, and capable of

reflecting so much. * Suppose ? ' but-she

dared not think of that.

What folly,' she mentally exclaimed, and
went to the smaller looking-grass on the dress-unstable,
hoping that the sight of her own
face would bring her back to her ordinary
train of thought. It did so. She was happy
again. She smiled at her image; she threw
herself into various attitudes. She composed
her features to listen to her own praises, rehearsing
the hoped-for triumph that awaited
her; but again she was chilled by a thought.
Suppose that glass has never reflected any face
since poor Phillips Arnold saw herself in it ?
This room might possibly have been hers-what
if she were to see her shadowy reproachful
face looking over her shoulder? Suppose
she came to claim the dress and upbraid her
with the disrespect to her memory that she was
guilty of in thinking of wearing it at a ball ?

A feeling she could not resist made her go to
the window and raise the curtain to look at
Phillis's last resting-place. The four cypresses
were swaying heavily to and fro in the wind
which went wailing round the castle. The
moon was obscured by dark clouds. While
Zeph was looking, a trailing branch of some
climbing shrub lashed against the window with
a sudden sharp blow, Zeph started away, and
hastily dropped the curtain, but the first thing
she saw when she turned back to the room was
one of the doors of the unexplored wardrobe
swinging slowly backwards towards her. She
uttered a low cry and ran to the door of the
room, without another glance in the direction
of the wardrobe, for she remembered what
her mother had said, and thought she would
go to her. She had walked about half a dozen
yards along the corridor, when she saw an old
gentleman coming towards her. He wore a
brown coat — that was the first thing she saw
and then the light of his candle fell more on his
face, and she saw that he was a pleasant looking

man, with rather a short nose, and a black
shade over his left eye. A pair of gold eyeglasses
were hanging from a chain — they
caught the light as they dangled in front of
him. Zeph stood still for a moment. He was
evidently full of thought, and had not yet seen
her : perhaps when he did he would think her
mad, for the dress she was wearing was at
least a century old. It seemed to her that, as
she could not explain why she was wearing
it, she had better return to her room and
wait until he had passed by. He was now
close by her mother's door. She turned back,
but before entering her own room looked
round to see how far he had got. He was
gone ! She rubbed her eyes. Yes, he was
gone ! He must have turned into the spare
room between her room and her mother's, for
there was no other, and the idea that some one
was sleeping there made her feel much more
at ease. ' After all, what a goose I am to be
afraid ! ' she said to herself. ' It is not as if I
really believed in ghosts ; ' and she went back to

her room, resolved \jo stay where she was, and
be more sensible. She boldly walked up to
the wardrobe which had swung open, found a
very commodious place for hanging dresses,
perfectly empty, hung up Phillis Arnold's dress
in it, and, with very little further strain on her
courage, composed herself to her slumbers.

She and Mr. Daylesford were the first to
appear in the breakfast-room next morning.
I hope you slept well,' said he.

Thank you, yes,' was her answer. ' At
first I^was so stupid as to be rather frightened
at being so far away from every one, but the
moment I found that little brown gentleman
was sleeping so near me, I felt quite happy.'

What little brown gentleman ? ' asked
Daylesford.

Don't y6u know your own household ? A
nice-looking old gentleman of about sixty-five,
with smooth grey hair, a shade on his left eye,
and rather a short nose.'

Go on,' said Daylesford eagerly.

But I can't ! That is all I saw. There

was no time to see more except that he wore
a brown coat.'

After breakfast he threw a photograph book
in her way, and watched her turning its pages.
Suddenly she exclaimed, ' There is the brown
gentleman — would you like to see his portrait ? '
and she gave him the open book.

You are sure ? '

'Of course I am sure. It is exactly like
him ; but why does a man who only sees with
one eye wear a double eye-glass ? '

'He always did,' said Daylesford in some
confusion.

Did ? ' echoed Zeph, surprised.

Did and does.'

He did not come down to breakfast.'

No, he is gone. He is an old friend of
mine — a shy, odd fellow. You must not be
frightened if you see him again, he just comes
and goes as he likes.'

Frightened ? Of course not ; why should
1 ? ' She fancied he was vexed at her having
happened to see this odd old friend of his, but

she said no more about him. She thought no
more either — her head was full of other things ;
but soon after breakfast, when Daylesford was
taking Mr. Treherne to the muniment room, he
said —

'Don't on any account repeat what I am
going to say to your wife or to any one —
promise me that. You know what I told you
yesterday about our lawyer, old Mr. Blackmore.'


Yes, he was to meet you here as soon as
your late grandfather was buried, and was to
put into your hands the certificates of your
father's marriage with your mother, and other
important documents, but he died on the very
night of his arrival here, and you and your
brother had no idea where to look for the
papers.'

'Precisely. He was a man of sixty-five,
with a good, benevolent face, short nose,
straight grey hair, wore a shade over his left
eye, and usually dressed himself in rather light
snuffy-brown ; and last night your daughter

saw a figure exactly corresponding with this
description walking in the corridor between
her room and yours, and it disappeared suddenly
before reaching her door.

She has seen some one rather like Mr.
Blackmore, and, instead of disappearing, he
turned into one of the rooms.'

There is no other room but one, which is
always kept locked. It is locked now, for I
have been to look ; besides, who was the man ?
There is no such person in the castle. The
ming where you sleep is appropriated to visitors.
If my butler had a visitor of his own,
he would not put him there. The figure Miss
Treherne saw was exactly like old Blackmore.
You must allow that this is a strange '

Very, my dear sir, very : but you can
hardly imagine what a fever I am in to verify
certain statements I am about to make in print.
I shall know no peace until I have consulted
the documents themselves ! '

We will go,' said Daylesford ; ' but you
will see the propriety of keeping all knowledge

of what I have just told you from your
daughter. You won't say anything about it
either to her or to her mother ? '

Certainly not. It would be most unwise.
You may rely on me, I assure you — indeed,
before I have been in the muniment room five
minutes the whole affair will have passed from
my memory.'

CHAPTEE VII.

Phillips ARNOLD'S DRESS.
Rich apparel hath strange virtues ! ' — Ben Jonson.

Daylesford readily comprehended that Mr.
Treherne's antiquarian spirit would know no
rest until he was taken to the muniment room.
It opened out of the library, but of course no
fire was ever allowed in it, so he showed his
guest a writing-table, opened the great storehouse
of ancient documents, and bade him search
for such as he wanted, and bring them out
one by one to examine in comfort by the
library fire. Mr. Treherne's eyes became
bright and keen as he screwed up his features
to critical inquiry, and peered about in quest
of the receptacle likely to contain the papers
he wanted so urgently. Strong boxes of all

sorts and shapes were piled on the crowded
shelves. The contents of some were marked
outside, but there was very little arrangement
to guide him. One shelf was soon dismissed
from consideration entirely, as containing nothing
more valuable than counterpart leases ;
and one side of the wall was occupied by an
iron safe full of old charters. Suddenly he
exclaimed, ' I do believe I have found one
thing I want to get hold of ! '

"- 1 wish you could find what I want as
easily,' cried Daylesford from the warm seat
by the fire to which he had retreated, and
which he altogether declined to leave.

What is that ? ' asked Mr. Treherne, appearing
in the doorway ; 'oh, some paper which
will decide the Berkhampstead peerage question
.P ' he added, making a great effort to distract
his attention from an old deed which he
was tenderly unrolling. Antiquaries always
do regard questions of disputed succession as
questions of purely technical interest, and as
if they had no personal bearing whatsoever.

'That is what I mean, of course,' said
Daylesford ; ' but there is no chance. The
only information Blackmore left behind him
and he only left it accidentally in a letter
to my brother — was the assurance that the
documents which he was about to lay before
us were not kept in the muniment room or
library, and that there was no need for the
keys of those places

Then that is where you will probably find
them,' said Mr. Treherne, once more bending
his worn bit of parchment covered with
fast-fading writing.

Daylesford shook his head and replied,
That is what we thought, but it's not so ;
every paper in both these rooms has been
examined, and every receptacle searched — no,
they are not here. I think I'll leave you,' he
added, for he saw that each word spoken by Mr.
Treherne now was wrung from him with much
difficulty. ' I will leave you installed here,
and ride over to a village a few miles away
to see a friend of mine. You have enough

VOL. I. M

here to amuse you for the morning, haven't
you ? '

'For the morning! For the rest of my
natural life ! There is only one favour which
I should like to ask — would you object to
Mrs. Treherne sitting here beside me ? She
shall not enter the inner room — I promise you
that ; but somehow or other I cannot get on if
she is not with me.'

I'll go and invite her to join you,' replied
Daylesford ; ' but before I go away, I should
like to tell you how I think we may perhaps
account for the figure seen by Miss Treherne
last night. If you recollect, we talked a great
deal on this succession subject yesterday on
our way from London. While we were doing
so, she was sometimes quite asleep and sometimes
only half unconscious. I do not remember
having described poor .old Blackmore's
personal appearance, but it is very likely I did,
and that, quite unconsciously, she heard a
description of him which took possession of
her memory, and she dreamed of him last

night, and then fancied what she dreamed had
really happened. Depend upon it, that is
what has occurred.'

'Probably,' replied Mr. Treherne, with
complete indifference, and Daylesford had not
the heart to try to wring another word from
him.

Mrs. Treherne took her knitting and sat
down by her husband's side, wondering principally
at the goodness of the coals and the largeness
of the fire ; and he was so absorbed in
the laborious perusal of some of the treasures ho
discovered that he forgot to feel annoyed by
the click of her knitting-needles — nay, almost
forgot that she was there. Daylesford went to
see his friend. Zeph's morning was to be
spent in going over the castle with the housekeeper.
Again Zeph was startled. She had, as
she thought, been having in splendid dining and
drawing rooms — she now learned that these
were merely small rooms which were only
used when any of the family came in a quiet
way, and that there were suites of drawing

2

rooms, music-rooms, and picture galleries, all
iuore magnificent than any she had so much as
dreamed of. The housekeeper was eminently
historical, and poured out volumes of learning,
never making a mistake of more than a century
and a half in her dates. Shoemakers' children
are never supposed to be very well protected
from wet feet, and Zeph detected no inaccuracy.


'And do you never use these beautiful
rooms ? ' said she.

Never, ma'am. If only the succession
were arranged to every one's satisfaction, we
might live in the same style we used to do, but,
as it is, we only occupy a corner of the castle,
and we never entertain.'

Zeph was rather lonely that day. After
luncheon she strolled about the garden, and after
some hesitation crept timidly up to PhiUis
Arnold's grave. It lay in the centre of a large
square piece of close-shaven lawn, and was
covered with a low grey stone embroidered
over with golden lichen. On one side she

read, ' Marmaduke, fourth Earl of Berkliamp-
stead ; ' and on the other, ' And Philos, his
dearly beloved wife, lie buried here.' So that
from the very first he had determined to sleep
his last long sleep by her side. Zeph's heart
was deeply stirred — she would have liked to
kneel down and say a prayer, but was afraid
of being seen from some of the many windows
of the house. She wandered about the gardens
in search of any flowers which might let themselves
be found. The gardeners offered her
some from the greenhouses, but she wanted
garden flowers for Phillis, and to gather them
with her own hands. At last she found a
great bed of Christmas roses, and with some
small-leaved Portugal laurels, and the greenish-white
stars of the flowers, made a wreath, shy,
fair, and delicate as her idea of Phillis herself,
and laid it reverently on the cold grey stone.
'I hope she knows that he insisted on being
buried by her,' thought Zeph as she left the
grass, each blade of which was crisp with frosty
pencillings, and returned to the gravel paths.

The castle was so large, it awed her — she
wanted to get far away from it, and walked on
farther and farther, until at length she came
to a small door, which she unbolted, and at
once found herself in a quiet country churchyard.
The church was older than any she
had ever seen. It was worn and grey and full
of cracks. It had sunk a little here, and fallen
out of the perpendicular there, and appeared
to be mainly kept in its place by great strong
branches of ivy, which held it in a grasp it had
taken centuries to rivet, and nothing could
undo. A venerable old porch attracted her,
and she went to it and sat down on one of the
stone benches inside. From thence she looked
out on the tombstones, and began to read the
epitaphs on some of the nearest. The first she
saw was this : —

Farewell, vain world, I've had enough of thee,
And now am careless what thou say'st of me.
Thy smiles I covet not, nor thy frowns I fear,
My days are past, my head lies quiet here.'

And the next was, ' Sacred to the memory of

Mr. Eobert Blackmore, of Gray's Inn, London ;
who departed this Use very suddenly, at Berk-hampstead
Castle, on Tuesday, February 7,
18 — .' ' February the seventh,' thought Zealand
this is the eighth. Then he died exactly
four years ago yesterday. Blackmore ? Blackmore
? I can't think where I have heard that
name. I am sure I have heard it somewhere
lately.'

She could not remember; impressions of
all kinds crowded on her so quickly just then
that one drove the other out of her mind.
This quiet old churchyard soothed Zeph. She
had been overwhelmed by the Berkhampstead
grandeur, and began to feel that she did not
like it. This little worn old church, where all
was left very much as it had been when first
built, was restful and pleasant. The great
rooms she had seen that morning were dazzling
in size and colour, but far too splendid to be
homelike. Perhaps Alnminster would be an
old-world place like this. Why had she not
written to John last night ? It was well that

she had seen those great restful gilded
rooms, with their slippery floors and barren
splendours. She knew it was well. She had
felt more satisfaction in the plain grey stone
which marked the graves of Marmaduke, fourth
Earl, and PhiUis his dearly loved wife, than in
any of the wonderful things in the castle.
They had loved each other — there was nothing
worth having in this world but the love of
some one very dear. She would write to John
as soon as she went in — how could she have
let herself be so dazzled by the sight of unwonted
luxury and magnificence as to neglect
the all-important things of life's She sat in
the quiet porch till the light began to wane,
and left it a better woman than she had been
before.

But how long would her goodness last?
She walked round the churchyard before returning
to the grounds, and found that one of
its low boundary walls shut off the high road.
She heard the sound of a horse's feet, and soon
saw Mr. Daylesford riding quickly towards her.

In the churchyard ? ' said he.

Yes, I don't generally like churchyards —
how could I, in London ? — but I think this is
charming ; I am quite sorry to leave it.'

'Tell me what you have been thinking
about,' said he.

'I cannot tell you quite everything,' she
answered, blushing slightly, 'but I will tell
you as much as I can. I suppose it is wearing
your poor ancestress's dress that made me doit,
but I have been thinking a great deal of
her.'

He smiled kindly.

I wonder whether she ever came and satin
the porch where I have been sitting, and
wished herself poor again .^ '

Poor without her husband, or poor with
him?'

Certainly not without him. No, poor
with him.'

'But why? he loved her no better when
they were poor than when they were rich.'

'I suppose not,' said Zeph, with a sigh,

and yet they' must have been more to each
other. I don't think I like riches, Mr. Dales


'I don't know much about them,' he re-pied.
' I have no experience of them.'

What would he have ? ' thought Zeph.

Take my horse to the stable,' said he to a
man who came up. ' I think I shall walk
home through the grounds.'

As they passed the tombstone to Mr. Blackmore,
Zeph said, ' I do so want to know why
I look at that as if I had heard the name of
Blackmore before. Have I ever heard it ? '

'Probably,' he replied, with studied indifference.
He was very much afraid of alarming
her.

'Do you see that that poor Mr. Eobert
Blackmore, whoever he was, died exactly four
years ago yesterday ? '

'Not really?' he exclaimed, with sudden
interest and surprise. 'After all, why shouldn't
he ? ' and he walked on to the door into the
grounds, talking pleasantly all the way. ' It is

to be a very good ball, I hear,' said he ; ' everyone
is talking of it. I have carefully concealed
from every one what a surprise is in store for
them. I have been thinking a great deal
about your dress, and I declare you might
have stepped out of Sir Joshua's picture I '

As soon as they entered the house, Returned
towards the stairs — she wanted to write
her letter.

Don't go away,' he pleaded. ' I detest
this dull time between the lights. I wish there
was something to do. I generally do find it
dull in the country till I get into the full swing
of the life. How shall we amuse ourselves till
it is time to dress ? I wonder where Mr. and
Mrs. Treherne are, and what they have been
doing ? '

They are where you left them this morning
: I can answer for their never having stirred
from the library.'

Not to luncheon ? '

'Mother came and ate a little, and cut a
sandwich for father. He did not come ; he

never does. I never see either of them at
home.'

But are you not dull sometimes ? '
I am always dull. I am penetrated with
dulness. I am simply bored to death from
morning to night.'

Then you must not go through the same
sort of thing here. I won't allow it. I must
see to it myself. But what can we do now ?
I do believe we shall have to fall back on
throwing cards into a hat.' So saying, he put
his hat on the floor, and for quite an hour
they stood at about ten feet distance from it,
doing their very utmost to dart the fluttering
bits of pasteboard into it. It sounds so easy,
and is so difficult. Each in turn threw the
whole pack, and sometimes only succeeded in
sending in two or three cards. Gradually,
however, Zeph got the range, and began to
throw with much more precision. He was
more impatient, and keenly resented the way in
which the cards, after going three parts of the
distance towards the goal, suddenly showed

signs of being possessed of distinct ill-will, and
either dropped to the ground unaccountably,
or quivered away in an entirely opposite direction.
What he did enjoy was seeing Zeph
playing : her figure, as she stood bending forward
poised on one foot, was so infinitely
graceful. Her attention was wholly given to
the game, and, though she was duly polite and
interested in all he said, it was perfectly evident
that she neither observed his admiration nor
tried to win it. It was odd — rarely had he
paid any one more attention than he was paying
this little girl by his side now, and never had
his attentions been received with so much
indifference I Was she shy ? Was she so
impressed by his superiority in worldly advantages
to herself that she never so much as
thought of him as a possible admirer? Was
she engaged ? He was puzzled. The only
thing he was sure of was that she looked like
a queen ; and though she began to be tired, he
again and again urged her to play one match
more, just for the pleasure of watching her

singularly graceful movements. Tea came, but
he would not let her stop. ' You can drink it
while I am having my tiirn,' said he.

'Twenty in,' she exclaimed at last, 'and
now I can play no more. I am really tired.'

I wish I looked like that when I am tired,'
said he ; for her cheeks were bright with colour,
and her eyes sparkled with light. ' Good
heavens ! ' he exclaimed suddenly, ' do you
know what time it is ? I hope you don't take
very long to dress, for it is rather a long drive
to Ever Green, so we are dining earlier.'

Not take long to dress when I am going to
my first ball ! ' said she, smiling. ' Why, it's
ever so much after six, and we are to dine at
half-past seven.'

Even then he tried to keep her a little
longer while slowly lighting a candle, but at
last she went upstairs, and he to the library,
where he found Mr. and Mrs. Treherne still
quietly sitting, and looking as if they belonged
to an entirely different world. He was altogether
absorbed in the perusal of the document

before him. She seemed to be slightly weary.
She was evidently rather afraid to speak to Mr.
Daylesford lest her husband should be cross at
the sound of her voice, and was thus uncomfortably
divided between her duty to him and
that of being polite to her kind host.

Mss Treherne has gone to dress for the
ball,' said Daylesford in his usual voice. He
could not imagine why the worthy antiquary
should object to a little conversation now and
then by way of relaxation, and was sure that
he had done quite enough work for one day.

What ball ? I don't understand,' asked
Mr. Treherne in great surprise.

You have forgotten, dear,' said his wife.
Don't you remember the delightful fancy ball
that Mr. Daylesford is kind enough to take her
to?'

I remember something about it,' said he
vaguely, 'but, my dear, you are not going —
Zeph cannot possibly go alone ! I am most
particular, my dear sir, about my daughter
always having a suitable chaperon ! ' and he

fixed his mild eyes earnestly on Daylesford.
Mrs. Trelierne hastened to set her husband's
mind at rest, while Daylesford indulged in
some not incurious reflections. Here were
this worthy bookworm and his faithful book-warmest
absolutely insisting on a chaperon for
their daughter when, being surrounded by
scores of her fellow creatures, she least needed
one, and yet they left her for hours together, .
perfectly alone with him.

A long silence ensued. How could it be
otherwise ? Mrs. Treherne's awe of her husband
was infectious. ' Come, my dear friend
said Daylesford at length, ' I must tear you
away. You really have worked quite enough
for one day.'

Mr. Treherne looked up, not believing his
ears.

'It is time to dress for dinner,' insisted
Daylesford. ' We had better put those deeds
back into the safe and lock the door for the
night.'

Slowly Mr. Treherne began to comprehend

that he was not in Lome Gardens. He rose
reluctantly and folded up the sheets of parchment,
sighing heavily the while.

'Would you very much object to my
returning to the library for an hour or two in
the evening ? ' said he at last. ' I generally do
work till midnight, and you will be out, and it
would be such a break in my habits if I did
not.'

You shall do what you like in the evening,
and now too, only I must remind you that we
dine in considerably less than an hour. I am
going to dress now, and if when you next seeme
I look rather like Sir Philip Sidney, so much
the better.'

Zeph had quite forgotten that the rector
and his wife would both have to wear fancy
dress, so when she went into the drawing-room
an hour later she was startled to see a rie^id-
looking minister of the Scotch Church standing
by a trim looking young woman in a tartan
bodice, short blue petticoat, and grey worsted
stockings. ' Let me introduce you to good Mr.

VOL. I. N

Eeuben Butler and Kiss Jeanie Deans. I think
Mrs. Scatcherd's costume a great success ! ' said
Daylesford, whose own dress suited him to
perfection.

Do I look as nice as dear Mr. Daylesford
seems to think ? ' inquired Mrs. Scatcherd after
dinner, when she and Zeph were preparing to go.

You look most charming ! Your dress
suits you exactly.'

You dear kind girl, to say so ! Shall I
tell you what he says of you ? He told me that
you where " without exception the most bewitchingly
beautiful girl he had ever met ! " There,
Miss Treherne, what do you think of that?
Why, surely there is nothing to give you
pain ! '

Two large tears had risen to Zeph's eyes.
So far from being elated by what sloe had just
heard, . her first thought was, ' How hard to
have gifts which, living out of the world as I
do, are absolutely useless to me ! ' She had
never expected such praise, and did not know
how to take it when she had it.

You are beautiful, dear ; if I had been
a hundredth part as beautiful, I should have
been the happiest girl in the world, and the
chances are you would not have seen me here
now.'

Why not ? ' asked Zeph, with no idea of
her meaning.

In a little country rectory ? No, indeed !
But it can't be helped, and, after all, I am
very happy. Well, you look thoroughly bewitching,
and I am certain you will have a
great success ! There will be an awful crowd,
though.'

There was a crowd, and such a crowd as
Zeph had never so much as dreamed of. An
Undine was running about with Queen Elizabeth
and George I. Bloody Mary was arm in
arm with John Knox. Two Moonlights had
struck up an acquaintance with a Symphony in
blue and silver, which was gliding about with
a bar or two of music embroidered on its blue
skirts, and a profusion of bangles. Henry VIII.
might have promenaded at the head of his six

N 2

wives, for each of them found a representative
at Ever Green ; but somehow or other he
seemed to prefer Joan of Arc, who was a pretty
fair-haired girl ; while Lady Jane Grey danced
a great deal more than she ought with the
Prince Regent. Zeph was shy ; every one was
strange to her ; and there was such a glare of
light, such a blaze of jewels, such a confusion
of tongues, and such a bewildering variety of
costumes, that she shrank from entering the
ball-room.

'You will feel quite at home after you
have danced once round the room,' whispered
Daylesford encouragingly ; ' and this is my
dance, so do come.'

Still Zeph hung back and tried to delay.

'Don't be foolish, dear,' whispered Mrs.
Scatcherd. ' You have no idea how every girl
in the room is envying you your partner.'

That might be true, but it was equally true
that many a man was envying Daylesford his.
Who is that wonderfully beautiful creature in
the Sir Joshua dress ? ' was asked repeatedly,

and all the men were trying to obtain an introduction
to Zeph. Daylesford danced his two
dances with her, and then began to make her
promise him some more ; but the difficulty was
to find any left disengaged, and others were
waiting to hear the result of his inspection of
her programme. ' Are you enjoying it now ? '
he asked, with a smile ; and when she said yes,
he assured her in a low voice that she could
not possibly be enjoying it so much as he was.

But you are so much more used to such
things,' she replied.

He looked at her in amazement. Was this
unconsciousness or practised coquetry?

Do you know the romantic story about
that young man you have been dancing with
so often? — your host I mean,' asked Mrs.
Scatcherd when Zeph at last returned to sit
beside her for a while.

No,' she replied ; ' I have heard a word or
two of it — that's all.'

*Then I'll tell it to you. Don't for a
moment imagine that I am betraying any confidence.

Every one in the room knows it, every
yeoman is deeply interested in it, and almost
every man has betted on its issue ; besides, if
you like Mr. Daylesford now, you will like him
twice as much when you have heard all.
Every one likes Mr. Daylesford; he is charming;
but you must let me get on with my story.'

Zeph had not spoken or moved, and was
innocent of any attempt to interrupt her.

Before I begin,' said Mrs. Scatcherd, ' you
might just tell me if my dress looks well among
the others. Stay, keep my seat for me, or it
will be seized in a moment, and I will walk
past you just in front. What I particularly
want to know is if my petticoat is too short ;
it feels very short ; ' and the little lady got up
and paraded twice backwards and forwards
before Zeph with an air of innocent expectation
on her face.

You look very nice and very pretty, but
your petticoat '

Oh, if I look nice and pretty, I won't
bother myself about the length of my petticoat,'

said she, and sat down. ' Now for our story.
I will begin at the very beginning. Old Lord
Berkhampstead's son, Mr. Daylesford, this Mr.
Daylesford's father, was an ill-tempered, perverse,
and rather agreeable old gentleman, and
early in life he married '

This is our dance, I believe. Miss Treherne,'
said an Arab Sheik to whom Zeph had been
introduced by Mrs. Vincent.

You will find me here when your dance is
over ; my dear husband, Eeuben Butler, does
not approve of a minister's wife dancing, so I
have to sit out,' said Mrs. Scatcherd, with a
smile ; but Zeph was claimed so quickly by one
partner after another that she did not get
back for more than an hour.

You look fresher even than when you first
entered the room ! ' said Daylesford, who was
talking to Mrs. Scatcherd when Zeph went
back to her.

I am so happy — so ridiculously happy —
that's why ! Don't laugh at me ; it is my first
ball, and perhaps my last 1'

How can it possibly be your last ? No ;
you have many a pleasant ball before you.'

I should like to go to one every night of
my life ! ' said Zeph fervently.

Then you must not marry a severe gentleman
like my dearly beloved Eeuben. There
will be no more dancing for you, Miss Treherne,
if ever you are so foolish as to do that ! '

Zeph's thoughts flew to John. John was a
clergyman too. Were all clergymen severe ?
Would John be severe ?

Oh, don't look so dreadfully serious,' exclaimed
Daylesford. ' Suppose you dance this
with me.'

CHAPTEE Vii

OLD Catch.

What's the matter ? Keep the peace heine ! '

King Henry IV.

Come and see me the first thing tomorrow
morning,' had been Mrs. Scatcherd's last words
to Zeph, so at twelve o'clock she went through
the grounds to the little door she already
knew, and soon found the rectory, which was
very near the church. It was a long, low,
picturesque-looking house, covered with roses
and honeysuckles, and it stood in a large piece
of ground which in due season would be a
beautiful garden. Mrs. Scatcherd was sitting
in a room on the ground-floor with windows
opening on the lawn, and prettily encircled by
waving garlands of green ivy leaves. She had

a large pile of socks before her — socks of all
colours — and she was darning them with all
her might.

Saturday is my sock morning,' said she ;
but there were so many last week, I did not
get them finished, and I am afraid I have
neglected them for my ball dress ; do excuse me
for letting you see such work. I ought to hire
a woman to darn them, but it's so much more
economical to do it myself.'

They are surely not your husband's ? ' said
Zeph, for there were at least two dozen pairs.

My husband's ! blessed man, he knows his
duties better ! Didn't you know that my dear
John took pupils? He has eight now, but
twelve is the number we should like to have.'

How strange ! ' said Zeph involuntarily.
She was so astonished that any one else should
have a dear John who took pupils.

Not so strange as you think,' replied Mrs.
Scatcherd, who of course could not understand
her exclamation. ' My dear Miss Treherne,
when people earn their living in a very disagreeable,

uncomfortable way, they naturally
want to make themselves independent as quickly
as they can ; and the more pupils we have, the
better for us.'

Certainly,' replied Zeph ; ' but is it so very
disagreeable and uncomfortable to have them ? '

You have no idea what it is ! They are
always either killing — I mean hurting — themselves
or one of the others ; and as for breaking
things, I wonder I have anything left ; but let
us talk about the ball.'

I came to thank you for taking me to it,
and for all your kindness.'

Don't thank me, for I did so enjoy going
with you. It was a great pleasure to me. I
think we all enjoyed it ; I am sure Mr. Dales
did. What a number of times you danced
with him ! By-the-bye, hadn't I better tel you
that story now ? I could not get on at all with
it last night. Can you tell me where I left
off?'

Old Lord Berkhampstead's son, Mr. Dales
father of our Mr. Daylesford, was an

ill-tempered, perverse, and rather agreeable

gentleman, and early in life he married '

repeated Zeph, with a smile.

Oh yes, and it is all quite true, though it
sounds so odd — and early in life he married a
very pretty English girl he met somewhere
abroad, and '

'Please, ma'am,' said a servant, who suddenly
opened the door with a great deal more
noise than was necessary, ' Master Hothouse
has taken down the clothes-lines, and doubled
them up and made a swing of them.'

The clothes-lines ought to have been taken
down before, and brought in. Try to make
him give them back, but if he won't let you
have them quietly, just let him swing awhile,
and get them when he is at dinner.'

Yes, ma'am, if he doesn't hide them ; and
if you please, ma'am. Master Lawrence is
stamping about on the kitchen roof, and cook
is expecting to see one of his legs come through
the ceiling every minute.'

Jane, I really am busy ; I am engaged ; I

cannot attend to Master Lawrence's leg. Tell
your master.'

'Master's not there. He set off to the
dentist with the two Master Persons as soon
as ever twelve o'clock had struck.'

Where is Mr. Andrews ? Tell hin.'
No one seems to know where he is.'
'Well, I really cannot help it. I hope
nothing bad will happen. Go and do the best
you can about everything.'

It is simply dreadful when Dr. Scatcherd's
back is turned ! ' said Mrs. Scatcherd apologetically,
when she thought that Jane had gone;
'how I wish the boys were always working!
There is always some silly craze in this world,
and now people do nothing but talk about
over pressure. Over>pressure, indeed ! If boys
were not a good deal pressed there would not
be one left alive ! Oh, are you still there,
Jane? I really cannot come. Don't you see
that I have a friend with me .^ Get cook to
speak to Master Lawrence.'

Cook won't have anything to say to him,

ma'am. He has been that rude to her in his
observations about the pudding yesterday that
she says she won't stay.'

Dear me, how vexing it is to have such a
naughty boy to struggle with ! and if I go myself
he will only pretend to obey me,' said Mrs.
Scatcherd, reluctantly putting down her sock
and rising slowly. ' Oh, Jane, he is there,' she
added in great delight ; ' Master Lawrence is
there, running across the lawn, so he has comedown
of his own accord.'

Jane retreated, and Mrs. Scatcherd sighed
and said, ' Where was I, dear ? '

He married a very pretty English girl he
met abroad somewhere, and — lived in out-of-the-way
places on the Continent with her for
some years, never daring to let his father know
that he was married, or where he was, or anything
about him. The girl's name was Murray
-Miss Janet Murray. I do not know anything
about her except that she was beautiful, but I
am bound to tell you that many people still
maintain that no marriage ever took place.

However, they had two sons, both born in a
small village in Austria. In a year or two Mr,
Daylesford either tired of his wife or quarrelled
with her, for he left her, and after a while,
having heard that his elder brother was dead,
and that his aged father was most anxious to
find his other son and to prevail on him to renounce
his roving life and return home, he did
return, and spent a few years at the castle herewith
the poor old Earl. This marriage having
been kept a profound secret — I don't know
why it was kept so secret, but I believe it was
the kind of thing the old man would never have
forgiven — great pressure was put on Mr. Dales
to make him marry some lady here. He
was not bad enough for that, however, and if
he had but been on good terms with his wife he
might perhaps have confessed what he had done ;
but he was not, and had no desire to be forgiven.
You see, if Mr. Daylesford's father had forgiven
him, he himself would have had to forgive
his wife or ask for her forgiveness, as the case
might be, bring her home to the castle, and

live very happily with her ever afterwards ; and
that was exactly what he did not want to do.
I told you he was a very odd, perverse man.
He made her a handsome allowance, but never
showed any desire to see her. In the meantime
the boys were growing older, and as his
wife could no longer educate them herself, she
went to Geneva, where she had some friends,
and engaged a daily tutor ; and when her
husband at last went there to see her, he chose
to be jealous of this tutor, quarrelled with his
wife more violently than ever, drove the tutor
out of the house, and resolved to carry the boys
back to England with him, and, whatever it
might cost, tell his father all. Unfortunately
he stayed a day or two in Paris on the journey,
and while there, the little fellows, who were
devoted to their mother and disliked him,
escaped from the hotel and made their way
back to Geneva. He was so furiously angry at
this that he swore he would never see either
of them again. He stayed a day or two in
London to arrange matters with his solicitor,

confided the whole story to him, directed him
to go to her and tell her by word of mouth
that though after what had occurred he would
never either forgive her or see her again, and
most assuredly not pain his dear father by owning
the foolish marriage he had made, yet if
she would continue to go by her maiden name
of Murray — a name by which he and she had
both been known while living abroad — and
would solemnly undertake never to make her
marriage public during his father's lifetime, he
on his part would engage to do certain things
for her benefit. In the first place he would
make her a still more handsome allowance ; he
wished the boys to go to Oxford when older,
and he wished her to live in ease and comfort.
Secondly, he promised to acknowledge her
sons as his lawful heirs immediately after his
father's death, and, as life was uncertain, and
he himself might chance to die before his
father, he pledged his word of honour to
deposit the documents which it would be
necessary to show hereafter in a place of per-vol.
I.

feet security known to his solicitor, Mr. blackmore



Blackmore ! ' exclaimed Zeph ; ' not really ?
Are you sure ? '

Yes, Blackmore, dear ; but let me finish
my story — and to give Mr. Blackmore orders
to make them public as soon as Lord Berk-hampstead
died. He also made over a large
sum of money to Mr. Blackmore for the use of
Mrs. Murray and family, so that if he himself
died there should be no interruption in the receipt
of her allowance, and no necessity to
appeal to his father. Curiously enough, Mr.
Daylesford did die first. He died eleven years
ago, and Mrs. Murray, as he called her, poor
thing, did not long survive hin. Lord Berk-hampstead
only died four years ago. The
young men, of course, were then grown up.
The elder brother, Mr. Marmaduke, was already
in the diplomatic service, and had some kind of
post in Paris, and our kind friend at the castle
was still at Oxford. Lord Berkhampstead died
in the beginning of February, and no sooner

was Mr. Blackmore aware of this than he
summoned the two brothers to meet hhii at the
castle at five o'clock on the afternoon of the
7th, when he would carry out their father's instructions,
and at once put them in a position
to assume their proper rank.

Mr. Blackmore himself was the first to
arrive at the castle — but now comes the dreadful
part of the story ; for, poor man, just as he
was stepping out of the carriage which had
brought him from the station, he fell heavily
forward and lay as if stunned. Everything
was done for him that could be done, but he
was suffering from something much more
serious than a common fall. He was carried
to bed, but never spoke another word. No one
knew whether he was conscious of pain or not ;
there he lay, shut off from this world already.
The two brothers came the same day, one from
Paris, the other from Oxford, full of delight at
the prospect of seeing each other again, and of
having their riojht to their father's and strand-father's
great name and place firmly established.

o2

But when they reached the castle, and found
the only man who could perform this important
service for them lying thus suddenly stricken
down, and the one voice that was to have been
raised in their behalf already silenced for ever
by the strong grasp of death, you may imagine
what a terrible blow it was to them. They
sent for London doctors ; they watched by his
side hoping for some sign of returning consciousness
; but all in vain, and a little after
midnight they became aware that he was
dead.'

How awful ! how maddening ! ' exclaimed
Zeph. ' That is one of those things which are
so cruel that it seems wrong they should have
been allowed to happen ! But do go on, I am
so interested ; and, by-the-bye, do explain one
thing that rather surprises me. How was it
that, as Lord Berkhampstead had to all
appearance died without an heir, there was
not some near relation to step in at once and
claim the estates and all he had left .^ And
then, how did it happen that Mr. Blackmore

could ask people to meet him at the castle, and
act as if he were the master of all ? '

He always had managed things in the
castle — he was the old lord's solicitor, as well
as his son's — his father had been the late lord's ;
the Blackmore had been confidential advisers
to the Berkhampstead family for I don't know
how many generations ; and as for there being
no near relative to claim the peerage, you
forget that there had been no time. The old
lord was lying dead in the house, and the only
member of the family who could expect to
succeed him was travelling somewhere in the
wilds of America. But there was another
reason : this family secret, though it had been
so well kept as regarded the poor old man, who
had just died at the age of ninety, was by no
means so much of a secret to the world at
large. For twenty years or more it had been
rumoured that the heir apparent of the Berk-hampstead
peerage was either secretly married
or ought to be. The boys were called Murray
at school and at college, but there was always an

undercurrent of gossip as to whose grandsons
they were, and it was always supposed that
some day or other they would make an effort
to prove themselves legitimate. Besides, you
must not imagine that there was never any
other claimant, dear ; you may be quite certain
that good things such as those the old lord left
behind him are always well fought for. — Oh
dear. Miss Treherne, 1 hear one of those dreadful
boys screaming ! Is it a scream of pain, or
only just fun ? '

Oh, never mind which it is,' said Zepli
eagerly ; ' do go on.'

They buried old Lord Berkhampstead
and they buried the poor lawyer, and the two
young Murray — I mean Daylesfords — asserted
their claim, and Mr. Blackmore's lawyer son
supported them warmly by repeating his
father's words and showing various letters.
One of these had been found in Mr. Blackmore's
pocket after his death. I will read you
a copy of it which I made from one of the
newspapers at the time — for, of course, everything

was in the newspapers. It was from the
young men's father, and it was found among
his papers after his death.

'"My dear Blackmore, — When you receive
this I shall be no more. I write to remind
you of your promise to me; and if I do so it is
not because I do not trust you implicitly, but
because I desire to leave no loophole whatsoever
for any mistake in the performance of my
promise to my poor wife, whom, strange as it
may seem after all that has passed, I sometimes
think of with a certain tenderness. My father
is eighty, but still has pleasure in his life. I
hold you firmly to your promise that he shall
never know how I have deceived him and what
a wretched life mine has been. I wish also to
remind you of one of the most important
terms of our agreement. As soon as you hear
that he too is dead, you are at once to summon
my boys to meet you at Berkhampstead, and
there you are to hand over to them the papers
you wot of. I write this as I feel a presentiment

that I shall not live long. This letter
will be sent to you, or found by you, when I
am dead. My friend I trust you. Farewell.

" Cyril Daylesford."

*- Where were these papers ? Every paper
and parchment in the muniment room was
turned over and examined in the presence of
certain trustworthy witnesses to see that nothing
was tampered with. Every drawer and
cabinet in the library and every other part of
the house was ransacked. Every book shaken
so hard that it almost turned stupid. Mr.
Blackmore's office was searched, so was his
private house. Agents were sent abroad to
every place the young men had ever heard
their parents mention. They did obtain some
proof of the marriage, but not what they
wanted, and still they went on with their
search until the next-of-kin opponent had
marshalled his forces and the trial began.
You must have heard of the trial. Miss
Treherne ? '

'I am so out of the world,' pleaded Zeph
apologetically.

Every newspaper was filled with it at the
time. It lasted I don't know how long, and
must have cost a fortune. At all events, you
knows what verdict was given. You know the
jury decided that there was proof to establish
the fact that the marriage had taken place
before the birth of the second son, but not that
it had taken place before the birth of the first,
so they pronounced our dear kind friend at the
castle the only legitimate son born of the marriage,
and therefore the inheritor of the title
and estates.'

Zeph was silent a moment. It was a
strange story. ' He,' continued Mrs. Scatcherd,
regarded this decision as a cruel insult to the
memory of a mother whom both he and his
brother love and worship as the best and
noblest of women, and absolutely incapable of
anything even approaching dishonour at any
period of her life. They take their stand on
their knowledge of her character — oi her

loving fidelity to them and to her husband,
which no one but a semi-lunatic like their poor
father could ever have doubted for a moment
and on the tenor of their father's letters to
his solicitor, v^^hich so clearly show that he had
entrusted Mr. Blackmore with the power of
producing evidence which would for ever
establish their mother's innocence and their
own legitimacy ; and that being the case, our
Mr. Daylesford at the castle refused to abide
by the decision of the court. He maintains
that his brother is the lawful Earl. His
brother cannot assume that rank, and he himself
will not. He still hopes that the lost papers
will be found, but in the meantime he persists
in treating his brother as the head of the family,'

What a difficult situation ! ' said Zeoh.

Very ! ' returned Mrs. Scatcherd uneasily.
Do you know I have been fancying for a longtime
that I hear some one moving about overhead.'


'Oh, no ! ' replied Zeph. ' Besides, even,
if you did, why should you mind ? '

But we are just under one of the boys'
bedrooms, and we never let them go into their
rooms during the day. The doors are locked
as soon as the beds are made, and they are not
unlocked again till bedtime.'

'But why?'

You would not ask: why if you had seen
what I have seen. My dear, if they were
open they would be turned upside down and
out of the windows in five minutes — they
would carry off the blankets to make tents,

and the pillows to fight with, and But I

am certain there is some one moving about
above us ! '

Oh, no ! I don't think there is — at any
rate, do just finish what you were saying before
you go. Your last words were, "In the meantime
Mr. Daylesford persists in treating his
brother as head of the family " — that's where
you were.'

'But that's all, or very nearly so. He
maintains that everything belongs to the elder
brother, and, as the elder brother won't take it,

Mr. Daylesford has settled that they shall each
have an allowance of five thousand a year out
of the estate — which is all he considers he
himself is entitled to — and that the rest shall
accumulate till the elder brother's rights are
proved. Mr. Marmaduke Daylesford gets the
best of the bargain, for he has a clear five
thousand a year, and a great salary from the
country besides, while our Mr. Daylesford only
has his five thousand, and spends a great deal
of it in keeping up his brother's property, as he
calls it ; but I believe he had money from his
father.'

But he seems to have the use of the
castle ! '

No, he has hardly ever been here. Now
that he is in England he comes occasionally to
see if all is going on right, but he never entertains
here, and never allows any one to consider
him the master.'

But,' persisted Zeph, ' he is just as much
at home as if he were the master.'

'Not more than he would be in his

brother's house — those two have always loved
each other as brothers do in the proverb, and
perhaps nowhere else.'

Are those two little wretches outside there
brothers ? Is that what you are thinking
of?'

A great deal of noise had been going on
outside for some time, and Zeph had hoped
Mrs. Scatcherd would pay no attention to it
till she had told all she knew. No\y it had
become much worse. Two of the boys were
having a desperate conflict in a retired corner
of the garden, and their bloodthirsty companions
were urging them on, alternately backing
Fox major and Fox minor. These young
gentlemen were twins, so that the difference
their names betokened was purely illusory.

They'll kill each other, and we shall have
the disgrace of an inquest in the house,' cried
Mrs. Scatcherd, now for the first time becoming
aware of what was going on. ' Oh, how his
nose is bleeding ! Oh, what a wretch of a boy
to strike again! Oh, what shall I do. Miss

Trelieriie? I ought to go, and it does make
me so ill to see such sights as that I Thank
goodness, here's John ! '

The doctor appeared on the lawn, and the
turbulent mass of kicking, plunging, and gesticulating
boyhood at once darted tumultuously
through a well-kept bed of laurels and disappeared.
He folio vied them at once, either to
see that the quarrel was not merely adjourned,
or to capture the ringleaders. Mrs. Scatcherd,
who had turned very pale, recovered her colour
immediately. ^I ought to be accustomed to
such scenes — they happen often enough, I am
sure,' said she.

I am afraid I must go,' said Zeph ; ' it will
sot)n be luncheon-time,'

I won't ask you to stay to-day, dear,' said
her new friend. * This is one of our days for
eating up scraps. But there is time to show
you the boys' rooms and the schoolrooms. I'd
like to do that.' She took a bunch of keys
out of her basket, and Zeph felt it behoved
her to accept this ofFer-=-it would be well for

her to know exactly what taking pupils was
like.

'This is one room,' said Mrs. Scatcherd,
flinging open a door, and revealing four small
iron beds standing one on each side of a very
large square chilly-looking room. The windows
were strongly guarded by iron bars, and
looked on a row of leafless trees. Everything
was perfectly symmetrical. A short length of
carpet Alas laid by the side of each bed, a chair
was placed by the head. Each boy had his
own washstand, chest of drawers, and an illuminated
text over his bed. ' The rooms are all
alike,' said Mrs. Scatcherd. ' I will show you
another, for it looks on the garden. I wish
they were all occupied.' Just as she had unlocked
and was about to enter the next room,
the doctor's voice was heard imperatively calling,
' Rosalie, my dear, come down.'

'I must go — I must go at once,' she exclaimed
in a fright. Something is wrong, I
can hear. Stay, will you look at this room
without me, and I will jzo to him ? I wonder

how that window happens to be open below ?
we never open the lower half of the windows.'

I will shut it,' said Zeph, but Mrs.
Scatcherd had already disappeared.

Zeph went to the window, and seeing a very
dirty foot-mark on the window-seat turned
round to look for the person who had made it,
and caught a glimpse of a bright little anxious
eye peeping at her from behind the towel-horse.
She went towards this piece of
furniture, and found a handsome little fellow
hiding behind it, a dear little russet brown
complexioned boy of nine years old. She would
have given anything for a good kiss from him,
he was so like Jack.

'Don't you go and tell her I am here — •
please don't. It's a caning for getting into the
bedrooms through the window, and Old Scotch
is in such a bait already — he'd be awful.'

Of course I won't tell,' replied Zeph, ' but
you had much better go out by the same way
you came, and at once, and you ought to wipe
off that mark.' .

Oil, don't stop to tell me things, Mother
Scatch will be coming,' said the boy. ' Go out
and lock the door, and keep the key awhile,
please do.'

All right,' replied Zeph, ' but promise me
to go away at once.' He nodded ; he was very
much afraid lest all this talking should lie
overheard. She cast a very affectionate glance
at him, which in reality was intended for her
beloved Jack, locked the door, and went down.
On the stairs she met Mrs. Scatcherd, who was
slowly returning to her, and wiping away a
furtive tear as she came.

He is so cross ! ' said she apologetically.
Men are cross creatures ! I really cannot do
everything, and there are days when everything
goes wrong, do what you will.'

Zeph said a few words of comfort, and then
asked, ' Do you take boys as young as eight or
nine ? ' for she was curious to hear something of
her new friend.

Oh yes, and the most unmanageable boy

VOL. I. • p

in the whole school is a sweet-looking little
fellow of just that age.'

Indeed ! ' exclaimed Zeph, and then she
told herself that, sweet-looking or not, young or
old, she should detest them all if she had to see
them daily, and that she would not live as Mrs.
Scatcherd did for worlds. And yet her John
was a very different man from plain prosy Dr.
Scatcherd.

CHAPTER IX.

WHEN DOES THE POST GO OUT?

Go to — go to ; you have known what you should not.'

Macbeth.

When Zeph returned to the castle, the gong-had
already sounded for luncheon. It had
wasted its strength almost in vain, for no one
was in the dining-room but poor little Mrs.
Treherne, who looked very small and lonely.
She had begun to eat, not knowing whether she
ought to be most afraid of keeping her husband
or those formidable-looking men-servants
waiting.

Zeph, Zeph,' she exclaimed, ' my dear
child, where have you been ? '

At the rectory, mother. I promised last
night to go there soon after eleven. I could

not come to you before I went out for fear of
disturbing father.'

Mr. Daylesforcl was looking for yon. He
came to ask if we knew where you could be
found ; and now he has gone — nay, I don't
remember where.'

When the servants had performed the two
or three services expected of them, and had
retired to their own much ampler and more
protracted meal, Zeph gradually told her
mother everything that she herself had just
been told, Mrs. Treherne had heard some
part of the story from the lips of her host
himself,' but she was so interested in Zeph's
narration that she actually lingered a little
longer than usual before rejoining her husband.
Zeph lingered a little too ; then she went
upstairs to take off her outdoor garments ; she
had come in so late for luncheon that she had
sat down as she was. She might have been in
her room about twenty minutes when she heard
some one knocking at the door. ' Come in,'
said she, with a certain amount of indifference ;

but as no one obeyed her she went and opened
it. Her father was there. The sight of him
startled her so much that she turned pale and
almost trembled — never once in her life had
she known him depart from his habits so far as
to leave his work for any cause whatever at
this time of th day — never at any time had she
known him perform his errands himself — her
mother always came. He stood very erect,
that too was a change, and she could see that
he was under the influence of some very
strong feeling which he was striving hard to
control.

Father,' she gasped nervously, ' father, what
is it ? Is mother very ill ? '

I wish to speak to you,' he answered. ' I
do not wish to be overheard ; can I go into
your room ? '

She bowed her head in humble acquiescence.
What was she about to hear ?

Zeph ! ' said he, ' I am ashamed of you.
You have done something which has made me
thoroughly ashamed of you. I did not believe

it possible that a child of mine could behave so
ill.'

I, father? I ? ' said the amazed girl ; ' I don't
understand you ; tell me what it is.'

He sighed heavily, and said, 'Is it possible
that you yourself do not know how ill you
have behaved ? Here we are, three persons
in all, enjoying the hospitality of a man who
has been most friendly to us in every way, and
who loses no opportunity of heaping kindnesses
and favours on us, and you, my daughter, go
and sit for an hour or two with a silly, unladylike
person who is all but a stranger to you,
drawing from her everything that she is willing
to tell you of his private concerns ! Zeph, your
conduct seems to me perfectly unpardonable.
What right have you to pry into our host's
affairs ? Why should yon know anything about
them at all unless he himself chooses to
communicate them ? Of all forms of curiosity,
that of trying to induce a man's neighbours or
dependants to tattle about him is the most
revolting. That Mrs. Scatcherd must be a

vulgar-minded, gossiping woman. I have been
a good deal brought down by poverty, but
surely not low enough to have to accept such a
companion as she is for my daughter. Zephyr
behaviour has been indelicate in the
highest degree. I give you notice that I can
no longer accept Mr. Daylesford's hospitality
with any comfort.'

Zeph, who had for some time been crying
too much to speak, so cruelly did his words
and the stings of her own conscience pain her,
put out her hand to stop him, for he was now
turning to leave her. 'Don't go away in that
way, father,' said she ; ' don't be so very angry
with me. I did it without thinking how wrong
it was.'

That makes me so ashamed for you,' he
replied. ' I should have thought that every one
had sufficient natural delicacy to avoid '

My dear father,' interrupted Zeph, ' I will
never do such a thing again ; trust me, dear ; '
then she could say no more, her sobs and her
tears came so fast.

I don't want to be unkind,' said he, kissing
her, ' but I would give a great deal that
this had not happened — it is an act of mean
treachery.'

Don't, don't ! ' exclaimed Zeph. She could
bear no more, and flung herself into a chair by
the fire, and he went away. She recognised
the truth of all he said. She had felt some
compunction more than once during Mrs.
Scatcherd's recital, but she had been so interested
— that was the word she had then used —
that she had urged her new friend to go on.
She now felt mortified beyond endurance
to think that she could have been betrayed
into conduct which hurt her father's sense of
honour. Why had she not been born with an
equally delicate sense of honour of her own ?
She wept quietly by the fire for a long time.
Some one was knocking at the door again —
doubtless it was her poor dear father who had
come back to forgive her. She went quickly
to let him in. It was Lydia, with a lovely
bunch of flowers sent by Daylesford, and a

message that Mr. and Mrs. Vincent were in the
drawing-room ; would she go down and see
them? Lydia could scarcely deliver her
message with composure ; the sight of Miss
Treherne's tear-stained cheeks, swollen eyelids,
and absolute inability to conceal her woe-beginners,
so distracted her thoughts. Zephyrs
dismayed at having been thus betrayed
into showing that something very unusual had
occurred, and at having exhibited herself in
all the ugliness of her helpless grief. What
would the girl think ?

Lydia,' said she, with an effort to enlist her
sympathy, ' make some good excuse for me. I
cannot go down ; I am very unhappy about
something.'

No, ma'am, you cannot go down,' replied
Lydia decisively. 'I'll say you are ill with
a very bad headache, and I'll come back, if
you will allow me, with something to do you
good.'

Thank you,' said poor Zeph meekly, and
then burst into tears once more.

Lydia gently took her by the arm and led
her into the room. Then she wheeled the sofa
near the fire, made Zeph lie down on it, and
covered her with a soft eider-down coverlet
; but no sooner was she gone than Zeph
rose wearily to her feet again : how could
she lie stretched in ease on his sofa, and be
warmed by his fire, and comforted by his coverlet,
when she had behaved to him in a way
which her father had characterised as mean
and treacherous? She paced backwards and
forwards for an hour or more. Lydia came
to her once or twice, bringing sal-volatile
and strong tea, but Lydia ' could do nothing
with her, she was much too self-willed for
her.'

Are Mr. and Mrs. Vincent gone ? ' asked
Zeph at last.

'Yes, ma'am, some time ago.'
And where is Mr. Daylesford .^ '
'Li the drawing-room; at least, he was
when I saw him last. He asked if I thought
you would come down soon.'

Lydia, you have not let him know that I
have been crying ? '

I ? Oh, ma'am, how could I ? '

But Zeph was sure that she had hazarded
some statement of the kind. She went to the
looking-glass and inspected her appearance. If
she were to wash her face carefully it would
perhaps pass muster well enough, especially
now that evening was drawing near. She did
wash it, she smoothed her hair, she washed
her face again and again, and finally thought
that she might venture to go down to the
drawing-room. She had made up her mind
that the only way to recover her self-respect
was to confess what she had done, and she was
now setting forth to do it if her courage did
but hold out. She was passing along one of
the corridors when she saw him. He was
standing at a window which looked out on the
garden, gloomily watching the gradual obliteration
of everything by the grey shadows of a
dull evening.

'I was waiting for you,' said he, coming to

her at once. ' I have been so anxious about
you.'

She had spent so much time in trying to
wash off the marks of the tears she had shed,
and yet at these kind words she broke into
tears again,

You have been ill all the afternoon, and
alone,' said he. ' I have so wanted to send
your mother to you ; it was so sad to think of
your being quite alone.'

My mother ! ' said Zeph ; ' but you forget
she could not have left my father.'

I suppose not,' said he, with an almost imperceptible
shrug of the shoulders ; ' but do tell
me what is causing you such pain ? I may not
be what people call an old friend, yet believe
me I would do a great deal to serve you.'

That is one of the things which makes me
cry so much,' she exclaimed ; ' don't say anything
more of that kind.'

He looked at her with much wonder and
compassion, but did not speak.

I want to say something to you — that is if

I dare. Let us go into the drawing-room — no
one is likely to come there ; I mean neither
father nor mother ever do.' She said this very
drearily— he pitied her for her loneliness.

You had better come in here for a moment,'
said he, throwing open the door of a quiet
little sitting-room she had never seen before.
I write my letters here and get over my little
vexations in private— let me try to help you to
get over some of yours.'

Don't be kind to me,' said she, struggling
hard to keep back a fresh torrent of tears —
please don't, or I shall be as bad as ever again.'

He gave her a chair and then sat down
opposite to her — not too distant to hear if she
spoke in a low voice, but not near enough to
seem to be studying every change in the expression
of her face. ' Now,' said he, in a low
kind voice, ' I want you to treat me as a friend
I am one in my heart, though I have perhaps
not known you long. Why have you
been making yourself so miserable the whole
afternoon ? '

I cannot — I really cannot tell you. And
yet I must try. It was because my father
was very angry with me — very angry indeed,
and for the first time in my life.'

Your father ! ' exclaimed Daylesford, almost
incredulously, for it seemed to him that
when Mr. Treherne was busy with books and
papers — and he was never willingly otherwise
he was only partially aware that he had a
wife, and altogether ignorant that he had a
daughter.

Yes, my father. He came all the way
upstairs to tell me how angry he was with me ;
he said the most terrible things to me. Don't
speak, don't say a word against him, for every
single think; he said was true.'

You had done something that he did not
like ? '

Yes, but without knowing '

Then surely '

No, it was not unjust of him — he was
shocked at me for not knowing that it was
wrong. You don't know what cruel things he

said to me ; but he was right, and, Mr. Dales
after thinking about it for a long time, I
feel that there is only one way of regaining my
own self-esteem, and that is to tell you exactly

what I did ; but ' she added slowly, and

speaking with great difficulty, ' it is so hard todo
it.'

Don't try, why should you ? There is no
occasion whatever for such a painful effort.
You admit that Mr. Treherne was partly justified
in speaking as he did, so you are never
likely to offend him again in the same way.'

Never ; but there is such a thing as atonement.
My offence was against you. I shall
never be happy until I have confessed it and
you have despised me for it, and then I hope
forgiven me.'

But I forgive you already,' said he kindly.
Besides, I am quite sure that there is nothing
to forgive.'

That won't do, for you might think differently
if you knew. Don't look at me while I
tell you ; I shall not be able to speak if you do.'

He carefully looked another way, but she
never knew that lie did, for she bowed her
head and covered her eyes with her hand.

I am so ashamed,' she said, ' but I must
tell you, if I am ever to forgive myself. Mr.
Daylesford, you must excuse my mentioning
things which are very personal to you, for that
unfortunately I cannot help. You know that
Mrs. Scatcherd invited me to go to the rectory
early this morning to see her. I did go, and
we began to talk of— of you ; and you must
forgive me if what I am about to say gives you
pain, but I got her to tell me — you can guess
what I got her to tell me — no, I must go on
and say it myself — ^I got her to tell me all she
knows about you and your life.'

What does she know about my life ? ' he
exclaimed angrily.

Your romantic history, I mean,' said Zeph.
'Why, you are Mr. Daylesford, and your brother
is only Mr. Daylesford too, and about the lost
papers. I don't know what made me do it
except that I was so interested ; but when my

mother told my father what I had done, he
came all the way upstairs to my room to tell
me that he despised me, that it was thoroughly
dishonourable of me to pry into your secrets,
and that he could not stay happily under your
roof after I had behaved so ill.'

My dear Miss Treherne, is that all ? ' said
he, stooping forward and taking her hand in
his.

All ! ' said she, unable to look up. ' Isn't
it enough ? '

It's nothing I '

She drew away her hand in some displeasure,
and said, 'Mr. Daylesford, you can scarcely
imagine what it has cost me to come and tell
you this, and now you treat me -'

I only want to comfort you ; and indeed I
do not look on this as a grave fault. From
your point of view I can see that you would
naturally think a great deal of it ; but from
mine, no; my unfortunate history is public
property. Besides, after all it was more Mrs.
Scatcherd's fault than yours.'

VOL. I. Q

Now that is what it most distinctly was
not exclaimed Zeph, able to speak up loudly
when another person was blamed. 'I made
her go on. I said I was interested. She would
often have stopped.'

Don't say anything more about it. I respect
your scruples; they show a delicacy '

'They show nothing, if you please, Mr.
Daylesford, but what I have learnt from my
father's scolding. Before he spoke to me I
had no idea I had done wrong. Will you
explain how that could be?'

I suppose because no one had ever 1

don't know what I do mean — but I am sure
that you have tormented yourself without a
cause.' He looked at her with eyes full of
pitying affection. She was so good and noble
in all points on which her mind had been
opened, but so untaught, untrained, and woefully
neglected in every way, that his heart
ached for her. The two days spent by her
father and mother at the castle might, he supposed,
be fairly taken as a sample of how they

passed their lives at home — and, possibly, of
how they had passed them for the last twenty
years. As parents, therefore, they were all but
non-existent. They stayed in the library here,
or the study at home, from early morning till
late night, leaving their daughters to educate
and train themselves. He was almost certain
that the lecture of to-day was the first bit of
moral guidance that Mr. Treherne had ever
given his daughter Josephine. Mr. Dales
only wonder was that she had grown upas
good and as noble as she was. The moment
what she had done had been put in a proper
light, her sense of right and honour was as
keen as could be desired. He thoroughly
admired and respected her for so boldly, and
at such cost to herself, coming to own her fault
and seek pardon. What might not be made
of such a girl as that ? While he had been
thinking thus, he had been unconsciously gazing
at the fire; when his eyes once more turned
to Zeph she was looking very unhappy.
You despise me ? ' said she sadly.

q2

' I do nothing of the kind. I should
despise myself if I did. I can only say that I
had a very great regard for you before, and
that it is now much increased.'

'Not really?' she said, her face flushing
with pleasure.

Yes, really.'

'Then,' said she, with rather pathetic humility,
' as you see what bad things I am capable
of doing in ignorance, will you, while I am
here, tell me if you see me doing anything
wrong? I have never had any one to go to
when I was in difficulty before. At home
there is no occasion to know the difference
between right and wrong, for nothing ever
happens there ; but just while I am here, will
you?'

'You surely would not have me presume
to find fault with you?' he exclaimed, with
some warmth ; ' I am quite certain that there
is no chance of your ever doing anything that
I should think wrong. And why do you say
while you are here? Am I not to have the

pleasure of knowing you after you have left
this place ? '

'That,' she answered, with a very pretty
quiet smile, 'depends entirely on your own
kindness.'

Her manner, he thought, was quite that of
a child who is kindly treated by some benevolent
old gentleman who is in every way
infinitely superior to herself. Never by any
chance did Zeph show any consciousness that
he was a young man, in no way different from
other young men, and might perchance end by
falling in love with her. If, when at the ball
the night before, he had asked her to dance
once with him, she would have danced once
and have been thankful ; if he had asked her
to dance six times, she would have accepted his
invitation dutifully without attaching any importance
to the fact that he seemed to prefer
her to other partners. Why was she so different
from other girls ? Why did she persist
in regarding him as a man ordained to move
entirely in another sphere? She gratefully

accepted any kindness from him, but her manner
showed that she was firmly convinced that
their lives must be passed apart. These thoughts
coursed through his mind so quickly, that,
without any apparent delay, he answered, ' Oh,
if it depends on me, it is all right.'

Now I must go,' said she, rising promptly
and moving a step or two towards the door.
This had been a business interview, she thought,
and it was over.

Where are you going ? ' he inquired.

To the drawing-room.'

As I shall naturally go there with you and
sit down and talk to you, what is the difference
between going there and staying here ? '

Because it seems a more natural place forme
to be than here.'

'You are right,' said he involuntarily. When
they came to the stairs he stopped at Phillis
Arnold's portrait. ' You ought just to look at
yourself,' said he.

'It does seem strange to think of my
having worn that dress ! '

You pass by quite bravely now ; the day
before yesterday I am sure you expected all
those poor dear ladies and gentlemen to step
out of their frames and walk upstairs by your
side.'

Don't remind me of it ; the feeling might
return. It has only gone out of my mind because
I have had so many other things to think
about. You know that I had never been to a
ball in all my life till last night. How I wish
there was another to go to to-night ! '

As they went through the hall, a long row
of letters was lying on a table in the full
glare of a lamp — the post had just come in
The Honourable Godfrey Daylesford,' repeated
Zeph, in a tone of great disappointment.
' All the letters are for you.' But in a
corner by itself was one substantial square one
which was addressed to her in such a firm,
well-formed, pretty handwriting, that Dales
was just going to exclaim, ' What lovely
writing I ' when something in Zeph's face
showed him that this was no common letter.

He pretended to be fully engaged in examining
those intended for himself, and in congratulating
himself on not being pursued into the
country by a great packet of proof-sheets as
Mr. Treherne was. ' I think I'll take them to
him said he, to give Zeph time to recover.
You will be in the drawing-room when I
come back, won't you ? '

He went into the large and now gloomy-looking
library ; for all light was concentrated
in a small circle near the fire. Mr. Treherne
was, as usual, buried full fathom five in the
perusal of musty parchment records. Dales
would have ventured any sum on it that
he had entirely forgotten the circumstance
which had so distressed his daughter. Perfect
calm reigned in the library ; not one thought
of any human being outside those four walls
troubled either Mr. or Mrs. Treherne. Even
when their host came into the room they did
not exert themselves to keep up any conversation
with him when once the first words of
greeting after their brief separation had been

exchanged. He took a chair for a while, and
watched Mr. Treherne as he sat in the strong
light of the lamp deciphering the crabbed,
much-contracted old writing. It was a face
that pleased him ; he liked to look at that
handsome but sensitive mouth, that well-cut
nose which told of gentle blood, and the clear
eye which always me this gaze so unhesitatingly
when once the poor old man was roused
from his work. It was such a proud face, and
yet so full of gentleness and resignation. The
lamplight shone on his wan temples, where
the skin was so thin and transparent that the
course of the veins could be clearly traced.
Daylesford sighed and turned to look at Mrs.
Treherne. She was sitting in a semi-dark
corner knitting and nodding, and then waking
with a start to wonder if her dear husband
wanted anything. Not that she ventured to
ask the question. He scarcely ever did want
anything but the dimly felt pleasure of her
company. He reminded Daylesford of a
hunter which can eat no food, rest in no

stable, win no race, if it be parted from the cat
which, having been born and bred in its stable,
has won its love. Mrs. Treherne was the faithful
and affectionate cat whose companionship
was indispensable. ' Now I'll leave you,' said
Daylesford ; ' I want to go back to Miss
Treherne.' He watched Mr. Treherne most
attentively as he said this. Not a muscle of
his face moved — Zeph's misdeed, his own
righteous indignation, both had passed away
for ever from his mind. His fine sense of
honour had been so deeply wounded that he
had at once hurried away to reproach her for
what she had done ; had he decided to wait
until the evening Zeph would probably never
have had her scolding, for the tablets of his
memory would have refused to keep any record
of her offence. 'He is a dear old fellow,'
thought Daylesford, ' but he had no business to
marry ! ' He went to Zeph, who had put her
letter in her pocket and was gazing thoughtfully
into the fire.

Well, Miss Treherne, have you read your

letter ? ' he inquired, With much secret curiosity.


Yes she answered gravely. ' Oh yes, I
have read it. When does the post go out .^ '

At seven o'clock ; it's more than half-past
six now. Where are you going ? '

Upstairs. I waited till you came back, as
you asked me to do so, but now, if you will
excuse me, I must go and answer that letter.'

CHAPTEE X.

WHAT HAS TO BE WILL BE.

Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
That would not let me sleep.' — Hamlet.

The post goes out at seven, and it is more
than half-past six now.' Those had been Mr.
Daylesford's words, but when Zeph hurried
down to thrust into the box in the hall a letter
addressed to John Simon ds, it still wanted five
minutes to the hour. In twenty short minutes
she had in that tolerably well-expressed and
neatly written letter shattered the dearest
hopes of his life. She had regretfully but
firmly told him that she would not marry him.
Don't be angry with me,' she wrote, ' don't
reproach me. I have thought till I can think
no more. For yoUr sake as well as mine, I
must write as I do. I could not make you

happy, for I should not be happy myself.
Since I came here I have seen something of
the kind of life I should have to lead if I did
what you ask me, and I know I should not like
it. It makes me wretched to give you pain —
I am very unhappy myself; but, dear John,
it is surely better for both of us to be unhappy
now for a while, than to spend our whole lives
knowing that we had made a mistake. I am
sure I am doing right, but I blame myself for
not having done it sooner. Forgive me, and
forget me.'

'There! that will be the end of all his
love for me,' was her thought as her letter fell
into the box, and her heart died within her,
for there was no one on earth whom she loved
as she loved that man. ' I could never have
done it if I had stopped to think,' said she to
herself, ' but I am glad it is written, and now
the thing is over ! ' and she hastened away lest
she should see the servant coming to empty the
box and be tempted to take back her letter.
One wrench now, a sharply painful one maybe,

and she was saved from a life of cheerless
drudgery. At home she was poor, but she had
no hard work or responsibility ; the life John
had offered her would have burdened her with
both. ' I am not the kind of woman to make
a poor man happy, and I am certain that I
could not bear to spend my days struggling
with twenty or thirty tiresome, impertinent,
self-willed boys. It may be cruel to refuse
him, dear fellow, but it would have been much
more cruel to take him. Besides, after all, he
won't suffer more than I shall.' And Zeph,
who would not for the world have recalled her
letter, walked upstairs half banded with tears.
She dashed them aside, almost angrily. * It's
absurd to make myself unhappy about a thing
that is entirely my own doing,' thought she.
If I can't bear it I can easily get my letter
back ; but what folly that would be ! I am
only nineteen ; why should I close my account
with life at that age .^ Why should I say I
Avant nothing more that it can ever offer me
but this one thing? How do I know what

delicious possibilities of pleasure and delight
may be lying waiting for me if I will but wait
for them? To settle down at nineteen to
manage a whole household of rough boys, as if
that were all I was fit for, would be simple
lunacy. Besides, I have only just time to dress
for dinner.'

That was true, so why did she go to the
window and strain her eyes with trying to see
Phillis Arnold's lowly grave ? The moon had
not yet risen ; all was dark. She could not
even distinguish the four sombre trees which
guarded it. ' Why should I want to see it ? '
she exclaimed, dropping the curtain and quickly
returning to the warmth and light of her room.
Hers was not a life that I should have liked ;
it would have been worse than that I have put
from me. Think of having to live just in sight
of a region where everything is at its best
and brightest, and yet not be allowed to
enter it ! '

She dressed quickly. The emotional excitement
she had gone through during the last

few hours had given her an exquisite colour ;
her eyes were unusually bright ; she had never
looked more beautiful. She wore some of the
roses Mr. Daylesford had sent her early in the
afternoon ; though, had it not been for Lydia's
thoughtfulness, they would by this time have
been hip and unsightly. She had put them
in water, and now they were fresh and bright
and sweet as Zeph herself. She was standing
before her glass putting the last touches to her
dressing, and trying to still a pain at her heart
which would go on making itself felt. ' It is
no use,' thought she ; ' there are only two
courses open to me. I must either write and
tell John that I repent my decision and cannot
be happy without him, or I must drive him
out of my mind.' That was what she intended
to do, cost her what it might. She went downstairs
with a light step : her heart was heavy,
but she was resolved that she would master it.
As she went she remembered some words she
had lately heard — Hamlet's words, 'Thou
wouldst not think how ill all's about my heart ;

but it's no matter.' She repeated these adam
and again to herself as she hurried onwards,
for she was late for dinner, but she only repeated
them mechanically. She glanced anxiously
at her father ; he looked kindly at her —
who, indeed, could have helped doing so ? She
thought he had forgiven her, and she was very
happy. The conversation at dinner was pleasant,
but there was an undertone of regret, for this
was the last evening they were to spend together
tomorrow they were to go back to London.
Mr. Daylesford had done what he came to the
castle to do ; no one knew what that was, but
the work could not have been oppressive.

I shall be your debtor for life,' said Mr.
Treherne to his host. ' You have done me the
greatest service one man can do another —
enabled me to correct a couple of blunders I
had fallen into from following a careless transcriber
; and besides that, I can now give an
entirely new version of a matter about which
we antiquaries have been fighting tooth and nail
for years. The treasures in that room of yours,

VOL. I. K

Mr. Daylesford, are simply priceless ; but they
ought to be arranged.'

They ought. I do so wish you would try to
find some competent person who would do this
for my brother. It would be a very good
thing if you could, and I am quite sure Mar-mature
would be willing to offer him a handsome
remuneration for his services ; indeed, I
would gladly do that myself.'

You surely would not suffer any one else

to have the run of those ' but here Mr.

Treherne, who had begun with great vehemence,
stopped suddenly, afraid lest he had been
betrayed into showing his mind too clearly.

He had said exactly what Daylesford was
wishing to hear, and he at once rejoined, ' If I
could but persuade you, Mr. Treherne, to
undertake the task, I should be so grateful to
you. It would completely fall in with my
wishes, and with my brother's too, I feel certain
; but if you hold out any hopes of being
willing to do it, I will let him know, and he
will write to you himself

If ever a day came when I was installed
in that room, with permission to examine and
arrange all that it contains, I can only say it
would be the happiest of my life — I could not
possibly have a more congenial task ! ' said Mr.
Treherne, with very unusual warmth,

Then let us consider it settled, my dear
sir exclaimed Daylesford. ' My brother will
be only too delighted to hear that you have
consented to do this. Let us settle it at once.
You will come as soon as you are able, and
will stay here till your task is completed, sot
that doing it all at once is essential — it maybe
done in instalments if you prefer it. But
when will you come ? '

Not till I have seen my book through the
press; perhaps that might be in the beginning
of April'

'Well, let us say April, then,' replied
Daylesford, ' Of courier you will bring Mrs.
Treherne and your daughter with you. I
won't take a denial. They have seen this place
in winter: I want them to see it in spring.

b2

Mr. Trelierne was delighted. Every one
was pleased, and the time passed very happily
until they adjourned to the drawing-room,
when Mr. Treherne began to look fidgety.
Mrs. Treherne observed it at once, but she
was timid, and all she dared to do was to
glance appealingly at Daylesford, who was
quite unconscious of any one's looks but
Zeph's.

At length, but after a long time, Mr. Tree
himself took courage and said, ' Would
you think me very uncourteous if I were to ask
your permission to go back to the library for
half an hour — just half an hour? that would
give me time for all I want. We are returning
to London tomorrow, and there is a deed
which I really ought to examine more carefully
before I go.'

Pray do not go away leaving any literary
duty unfulfilled,' said Daylesford. ' I am
sorry I cannot offer to let you take any documents
away with you, not having my brother's
permission ; but if you have the least wish to

spend a little more time in the library now, I
beg you to gratify it.'

Mr. Treherne rose — that Daylesford expected
; but he was not prepared to see Mrs.
Treherue rise too. She did so. He walked
out of the room without another word, and she
unhesitatingly followed him, also without saying
one word, or bestowing one look at her
daughter. Daylesford had already perceived
that these two had a very imperfect recognition
of their parental duties, but that they would
walk away at ten o'clock in the evening and
leave him to enjoy an indefinitely long tete-tete
with their beautiful young daughter, for he
had not the slightest faith in their promise to
return in half an hour, he had not believed it
to be possible. For a moment he was too
much surprised to speak, the next he was
half inclined to laugh. He glanced at Zeph,
with much suppressed amusement trying to
twinkle in the corners of his eyes. She was
quietly looking at the fire, being probably so
thoroughly accustomed to these freaks on the

part of her natural protectors that fchey did not
strike her as odd. She was still gazing at the
hire. It was a wood fire, and flames the greenest
of things blue, the bluest of things green,
were curling up and wreathing themselves
around the blocks of pine which were being
sacrificed to the comfort of Mr. Daylesford and
his guests. Her eyes looked sad ; her face, now
that it was in repose, looked sad too: poor
child, the day to her had been but a sorry one.
He did not know how to begin to speak to her,
and sat watching her for a minute or two. At
length he said, ' I should be very much distressed
at the thought that this was the last
evening we should have here if I had not persuaded
your father to come back in six weeks
or so to fringe those papers '

Zeph look up, and slowly and thoughtfully
perused his face, and then said quietly, ' It is
very kind of you to say so.'

Oh, is it ? ' said he, rather nettled by her
dutiful little answer. ' Do you think it is no
pleasure to me to see you here ? *

The house must seem very large and
gloomy when you are quite alone.'

I am not afraid of ghosts said he, ' but
I like pleasant company.'

At the word ghosts Zeph looked round the
room uneasily, but it was deliciously cheerful
with the mellow glow of many wax candles ;
and besides, ever since her first night at the
castle her fear of ghosts had been laid to rest.

You have no idea how lovely the park
will be when you come back. Every bit of
the wood that is not carpeted with hyacinths
will be bright with primroses. I never saw
such a place for wild flowers in my life.'

Do you know,' replied Zeph, ' I have
sometimes untied one of the bunches of primroses
one buys in London, and have let them
fall, and tried to imagine that when I slowly
picked them up and rearranged them I was
feeling something of the pleasure of gathering
them in the woods and fields ; but I don't
believe it was the least bit like it.'

Of course not. What a barren joy !

When you come back you shall gather primroses
enough to fill that wood-basket. I shall
like to see your pleasure.'

Do you stay here much in the summer ? '
asked Zeph.

No. I don't like being here. I may talk
openly to you, may I notes You know the
circumstances.'

Zeph blushed scarlet : he was reminding
her of her sins.

He saw the blush, and hastened to say, ' I
like you to know them. I think that you must
sympathise with me now and see what I feel
about this place. I am very fond of it, but I
don't like being here; I am reminded of so
many things which I want to forget. If Mar-mature
were here it would be all right.'

'Yes, I wish he were,' said Zeph sympathetically.


We were always together when we were
boys, and now I have not seen him for nearly
four years. I think I shall go out and live
with him. I know he will never return to

Norland for more than a short visit until that
disgracefully unjust verdict is set aside. How
could he ? Every time any one addresses him
by any title but that which is his own, it is an
insult to the memory of his mother.'

Let us try,' said Zeph, ' to imagine in
what kind of place the persons who concealed
those papers would be most likely to put them.
You are sure that they are not in the ,
you say ; but suppose they are,
and my father finds them ? '

It has been searched by Mr. Blackmore's
two sons. No, such documents would not be
placed there. You see, if that had been the
case my grandfather might have found them —
my father was particularly anxious to conceal
his marriage from him.'

'Is there nothing which belonged specially
to your father ? — no desk, or cabinet, or
writing-case, or something with secret drawers ?
that is the kind of thing I mean.'

Every article of furniture, great and small,
has been searched, and almost taken to pieces.

It is a mystery which will choose its own time
for revealing itself. We have searched so
thoroughly that nothing more can be done.
In novels, missing papers are generally discovered
in some book, or hidden between a
book and its cover, or in the lining of some
disused blotting-case ; but we have no hope of
finding what we want in that way.'

Then you will find it in some ridiculously
simple place — some place so obviously the one
most likely to be the first thought of, that no
one ever thinks of it at all.'

He shook his head, but his eyes rested
kindly on her, he was so grateful to her for
taking an interest in what occupied his mind
incessantly. ' It's so hard on Marmaduke,'
said he. ' It's bad enough for me, but it's a
thousand times worse for him. He does
not want to spend his life in struggling to
make the Italians see everything that affects
their own well-being in an orthodox British
light. He would much rather be in his own
country.'

'I am quite sure it is only a question of
time,' said Zeph. ' I have a presentiment that
the papers will be found. My presentiments
are generally right, too. Why did you shake
your head when I said that the papers would
be found in a simple place ? '

Because my father's letter to Mr. Blackmore
seemed to imply that there were certain
difficulties to be overcome before they could be
laid before us. He did not say, " Tell my sons
where the papers are deposited and send them
the key of the place," or " Tell them to open
such and such a cabinet ; " for it was evidently
necessary that the poor old man should come
here himself. However, don't let us think of
this to-night ; what has to be will be ! There
is another gloomy thing I cannot help thinking
about now, and that is I shall not have the
pleasure of talking to you or seeing you tomorrow
evening. I have enjoyed this visit to
Berkhampstead more than I could have believed
possible.'

It has been very pleasant,' replied Zeph ;

more than pleasant I ought to say — the ball
was delightful ! '

He smiled : that ball always came first in
Zeph's mind, and in one way or another she
always contrived to administer a rebuilt to him.
I don't believe that there is the least need of
anything to remind you of that ball,' he continued,
' but somehow, as it is the first we have
enjoyed together, I feel as if I should like you
to have something, and I have got you this.
You will wear it sometimes, won't you ? '

Zeph, much taken by surprise, opened
a small jewel-case, and inside it, reposing on
the softest light-blue velvet, was a very pretty
pearl brooch, exactly like one which had
fastened back the lace on Phillis Arnold's
shoulder, and which she herself had worn. It
was so like it that she thought it was the
same. ' How lovely ! ' she exclaimed. ' But I
ought not to have it — it is a thing which has
been so long in your family ! You lent it tome
for one night, and it was very good of you
to do so, but I ought not to have it altogether.'

It's not the same,' said he ; ' the one you
wore the other night is not mine to give —
it is Marmaduke's ; but London is a wonderful
place, and there are very few things
which cannot be found in it. I sent my
man there this morning with the brooch you
wore, and orders not to come back until he
had found one like it. He came back while
we were at dinner, and he has not matched it
badly.'

Zeph looked delighted. ' You do not mean
that you intend this beautiful brooch and took
all that trouble for me ? '

'Why not? I shall be so pleased if you
will accept it.'

Thank you,' she answered, ' it is too kind.
You are a thousand times kinder than any one
I have ever known.'

You can do something for me in return,'
he replied.

Zeph looked up in eager inquiry.

Promise me faithfully to come here again
in April.'

'How can you call that doing something
for you ? ' she answered.

Because I am very anxious you should
come said he.

I should so like to ask you to do something,'
said she, shyly, after a brief pause ; ' that
is, if I could be quite sure you would not mind
doing it.'

Ask without fear,' said he kindly.

Have you a picture of your mother ? and
if so, would you mind showing it to me ? ' She
had felt very timid while she spoke, but she
could not have asked him anything which
would have pleased him more.

'I have several,' was his answer. 'Most
of them are in London, but I will show you
the one I like best.' He went away, but soon
returned with a miniature of a very lovely and
noble-looking woman with sad but steadfast
eyes.

How sweet ! how beautiful ! how dear ! '
said Zeph warmly, and she meant all she said.
She looked at the miniature for a long time,

and then finding her fingers resting on a very
smooth surface behind it, she turned it round
and saw a coil of golden brown hair which
covered the whole of the back of the miniature,
and was held in its place by a sheet of glass.
Zeph sighed and looked at him in pitying
sympathy. She felt how much he had loved
his mother, and how lonely he was now. ' Talk
to me a little about her,' she said ; ' that is, if
you do not object to doing so.'

Object ! It is a pleasure I never by any
chance enjoy. She was simply everything tome,
and now that Marmaduke is gone, no one
is left who knew her.' He began to describe
his life when a boy, and her constant love and
kindness. He told Zeph how miserable he
and his brother had been when his father
suddenly appeared and tore them away from
her and the only home they knew ; how
they had plotted together to escape if they
possibly could, and how when in Paris they
had stolen out of the big comfortless hotel and
had sold their watches, and so got money

enough to go back to Geneva and their mother.
'She loved my father to the last in spite of
everything,' said he. ' I never once heard her
say one word against him. She was almost an
angel. I only say " almost " to you — I think
her quite an angel. She learnt Latin to help
us with our lessons. She began to learn Greek
with the same object. She went out riding
and fishing with us, and tried to play with us
like a boy. That, of course, was when we
were little fellows, but she Hved for us as long
as she did live

Tears were again stealing into Zeph's eyes.
They were partly tears of sympathy, but in
some degree they owed their origin to a sudden
recognition that she herself had never been so
happy. Mrs. Treherne had always been kind
to her children, but they had seen so little of
her. Sometimes, if there was no shopping todo,
she never left the study except at mealtimes
; and even at dinner or tea she never sat
still for more than a minute or two at a time,
but was constantly running backwards and

forwards with things for her husband. Zephyrs
so accustomed to this that until she heard
Daylesford describe his mother, she had never
been conscious of any shortcomings in the
affection shown by hers. ' How nice it would
have been to have such a mother as that ! '
she exclaimed almost involuntarily. ' Not that
my dear mother is not kind ; only, somehow, I
never see her ! '

He looked at her as she said this, and once
more he pitied her. They had drawn their
chairs nearer the lire when they began to talk,
and now she was sitting in its warm glow
Her eyes were fixed on the hearth-rug. He
thought he could see the dark fringes of her
eyelids quivering on her cheeks. He could
watch each change in her face without any fear
of being observed, but he hardly dared to look
at her, for he had never seen her look so beautiful,
never liked her so much, and never felt so
sorry for her. She had shown a sympathy for
his sorrows which had gone far to win his
heart ; he could not bear to see her downcast

VOL. I. s

face and air of patient sadness. He glanced at
tke clock : it was twenty minutes past eleven,
and here lie was enjoying a most delightful
tete-a-tete^ which he was quite certain the two
old people in the library would never dream of
interrupting for at least another hour, if then.
Well, it was very delicious, and her gentle
sympathy made her infinitely charming. She
looked up and said, ' I wish you would describe
your brother a little more.'

But just as he was about to enter with
hearty good will on this large subject, she
raised her eyes to the clock and saw the
time.

Twenty-five minutes past eleven ! ' she
exclaimed in alarm, ' I had no idea it was so
late ! I really must go to bed. Think of our
sitting up so late, when we were dancing till
three in the morning! '

Wait a few minutes longer,' he pleaded.

I really cannot. I am not used to sitting
up so late.' ^

You wouldn't have wanted to go to bed so

early as this if we had been at another ball
to-night,' said he, rather piqued.

Of course not. I should like to know
what one would not do for a ball,' she replied,
all unconscious of his annoyance.

Well, really — but you are right, it is time
to have some rest. I wonder whether your
father and mother have gone to bed and forgotten
that you are here ? '

They have forgotten that I am here, but
they have not gone to bed. They will not do
that till twelve.'

Then I think I shall wait here for them,'
said he.

Thank you,' she replied quietly, and went.
Just as she was leaving the room she stopped
and said, ' Do not sit up too late, Mr. Dales
for they may very likely never come inhere
after all, but go straight upstairs. Goodnight.'
And so she went, and there had been
something in her unconscious manner that had
made it impossible for him to express any more
regret at the parting which lay before them, ors

2

any stronger interest in her than usual. Her
last words had much surprised him. Surely
she was mistaken. The most careless of
parents, the most ardent of antiquaries, could
scarcely retire to rest without just taking the
trouble to open the door in order to assure
himself that he was not keeping a weary
daughter waiting for him, or leaving her to sit
up as long as she liked, with no other companion
than her youthful host. He sat by the
fire musing, not unhappily, till twenty minutes
past twelve, when, just as he too was beginning
to feel a strong wish to go to bed, he heard a
distant door shut, and then he heard the footsteps
of the worn-out decipherer of manuscripts
and his still more weary wife. He could detect
fatigue in the dull tread of the two outside
quite plainly.

Of course they are coming here,' said he to
himself ; ' I knew that there could be no doubt
of their doing that.' And he rose to open the
door for them. They passed it before he could
do so. It happened to open very noiselessly :

had it been otherwise, he wondered whether
they would have observed him. He was intime
to see them walk quietly through the hall.
Each had a candle, and the light fell on their
grey hair, which in this case certainly did not
betoken wisdom. On they went, thoroughly
satisfied with the labours of the day, and
entirely without a thought of their daughter.
She might have been sitting by the fire he had
just left, waiting for him to return for a prolonged
conversation — it would have been all
the same to Mr. and Mrs. Treherne ! ' And
that's the man who said, '* I am most particular
about my daughter having a suitable
chaperon ! " He is a delightful old man, but
he does not deserve to have such a daughter !
And, by the way, he seems to be equally neglectful
of his other daughters. I have not the least
doubt he has left those two rough girls of his in
London, with no one to look after them but
that little brother of theirs ! People talk about
the debt we owe to men of learning, but now I
know who pays it 1 '

CHAPTEE XI.

I WISH YOU HAD SEEN HIM.

To seek het water beneath could ice,
Surely it is a great folie.'

Ballad of Johnnie Armstrong.

It was a bright frosty morning, and they
were to return to London as they had come
only three days before. It seemed to Zeph
that she had spent weeks at the castle instead
of days, and it required a considerable mental
effort on her part to replace herself in imagination
in the home which she was beginning to
forget. She tried to do so once after they had
set out on their journey, but failed, and gave up
the attempt, for, alas ! she would soon be there,
and the work of readjusting herself to her
former circumstances would be easy, cruelly
easy, when the facts of her home existence
thrust themselves before her eyes at every turn

Don't sigh,' said Mr. Treherne.

'No, don't sigh echoed Mrs. Treherne.
We really have been very happy, but '

Mr. Daylesford's eyes were fixed on Zephyrs
she feeling sorry to leave ? He hoped so.
She saw him looking at her, and said, ' Oh, that
is not what I was sighing about — I was thinking
of something quite different.'

Again she had administered a rebuff, and
yet it was not because she was afraid of owning
that she was sorry to leave the castle, for she
instantly said, ' I might have sighed about leaving
Berkhampstead if I had happened to bethinking
about it — for I too was very happy
there.'

So was I,' interrupted Mr. Treherne. ' I
never was so happy before ! That muniment-room
and that library — not that I ever had
time to do more than run my eye over the
titles of some of the books — it would require
months to appreciate such a collection ! '

I shall look forward to April,' said Dales
; ' in April we will all come back ; ' and
he looked for an answering indication of

pleasure from Zeph, or at all events for some
show of interest, but she made no such sign.
She had retired within herself to take counsel
with her own thoughts, for at the mention of
this she had remembered that it would be
absolutely impossible to come again to a great
magnificent castle like Berkhampstead with
nothing but a half-worn blue merino, a plain
dark-green serge for morning wear, and a poor
little often washed white muslin for the evening.
I can make myself look a trifle better by
wearing flowers, which fortunately can be had
for the asking, and I can change my ribbons
and sashes ; but I don't expect I can deceive
Mr. Daylesford by that — he will know that it
is the same old dress whatever I do. No, if I
go again I must have two or three new ones,
and how they are to be got I don't know. It
is a shame ! '

Zeph always reviled Providence for not
giving her a well-filled wardrobe. If she had
been a plain girl she would not have felt that
she had any right to do so, but, as it was, she

thought herself the victim of an act of injustice.
Nature, or Providence, or the power which had
so far cared for her well-being as to give her a
face which people called pretty, had not the
least right to do that if it intended to neutralise
its gifts by letting her be so poor that she could
never look well. ' The prettiest girl in the
world would look ugly if she wore the ill-made
dresses and hats that I wear. It's a downright
shame ! ' So she mentally exclaimed as they
rolled onward over the hard frosty road on
which the horses' feet rang so clearly.

We are getting nearer and nearer to
London,' observed Mrs. Treherne. Zeph's
spirits fell, not because she was ashamed of
having a mother who made stupid remarks,
but because she disliked going home.

'I do hate going back,' said she.

Daylesford was delighted at this, and was
just going to say something, but Mr. Treherne
began to tell him a long story about an
ancestor of the owner of the property they
were now passing through, and he compelled

Daylesford to attend to him — never having
known what it was not to be attended to since
he married. So Zeph fell back on planning
ways and means of getting two or three presentable
dresses. Gone were her cherished
visions of pretty brown velveteen trimmed with
fur which might have been afforded her as part
of her wedding outfit, and were to have looked
so well in the second master's wife's pew in
Alnminster Cathedral. These dreams had been
very sweet and pleasant, but all that was over.
Now she must be content with such happiness
as she could find in Lome Gardens. Perhaps
when she arrived there she would find a letter
or message from him ; perhaps he might even
have stayed in London on purpose to see her.
As she thought this her heart seemed to standstill.
' Better not,' she said to herself ; ' much
better not.'

They stopped at a wayside inn to have
luncheon, and while it was being got ready the
old people sat by the fire, and the young ones
walked briskly up and down the road in front

of the house. Zeph seemed so changed that
Daylesford scarcely knew her. Where was the
sympathetic friend of the night before ?

'It's only because I am going back to
London,' said she when he reproached her
with this. ' I don't like London ; it chills me ! '

Daylesford himself would have been chilled
in Lome Gardens, and he readily forgave her.

'I am just the same now as I was last
night,' she protested, ' I always shall be. Will
you promise to write and tell me if you discover
the documents you want ? '

'I'll telegraph immediately — no, I will
come.'

It would make me very happy to see you
come,' said she, ' for then I should know what
had happened, and that you had good news to
tell me.'

'Am I not to venture to Lome Gardens
until I have good news to tell ? ' he exclaimed.

Oh, I didn't mean that,' she answered
humbly, ' but I never thought you would care
to come to our poor little house ! '

I go to see people, not houses,' he replied,
and she felt rebuked. And yet it was a horrible
little house, and she could not imagine
him in it! He was afraid he had answered
her sharply, and added, ' You may be quite sure
that I shall wish to see you.' He wondered
why she did not express some polite pleasure at
the prospect of a visit from him. She, much as
she liked him, was so appalled at the idea of
seeing him set foot in that galere, that she was
capable of nothing but a rapid mental review
of steps, passage, stairs, drawing-room, and
every object likely to strike his eye unpleasantly
while making his way from the entrance
of the house to what was by courtesy called
the drawing-room. The steps which led upto
the front door were high, and there were
thirteen of them ; the oil-cloth in the passage
was worn out in places, and of a very vulgar
pattern. The walls were covered with a paper
imitation of Sienna marble, now somewhat injured
and dirty ; the staircase was narrow and
dark. Alas ! what was there in the whole

house that was not dark, or dirty, or vulgar F
Perhaps I am vulgar myself for thinking that
he will ever trouble himself about such things
when he comes to see us,' thought Zeph, with
a sudden perception of the exact truth, ' but I
cannot help it.'

Don't you wish me to come to see you ? '
he asked, for her manner was anything but
encouraging.

Oh, don't imagine that,' she exclaimed
eagerly. He had been very kind to her, and
not for worlds would she have hurt his feelings.
I am only thinking how miserable our house
will seem to you.'

I don't believe it will ; I am certain it will
not if you are at home.'

Perhaps we had better go back to the inn,'
said she, and he wondered why she thought so.

They did go back, and very soon they were
on their way again ; but the second half of the
journey was by no means so pleasant as the
first, for the suburbs of London seemed to have
moved out into the country to meet them, and

they passed through a never-ending succession
of rows of ugly houses. Zeph shut her eyes
and pretended to be tired. After about an
hour more of this they would come to her own
home, which was only a few degrees superior
to those which bordered the road now, Mr.
Daylesford was loud in his expression of horror
of these ; he would be silent when he reached
Lome Gardens ; but she would know what was
passing through his mind. However, that pain
was spared her, for when they reached a cabstand
about a mile from De Manvers Town,
Daylesford, who had for some time been occasionally
consulting his watch, said something
about having an engagement which he must
keep, and hurried off in a hansom, leaving the
Trehernes to pursue their way alone.

'That is a most agreeable and friendly
young man,' observed Mr. Treherne. ' JSTot at
all intellectual, but certainly intelligent.'

No, not at all intellectual,' repeated Mrs.
Treherne, who really was not quite in a position
to have an opinion on that point.

Here we are ! ' exclaimed Zeph joyously ;
after all, she was rather pleasantly excited by
the home-coming. ' I do hope Jack is in.
Yes, dear fellow, there he is at the window.'

Jack ran into the street bare-headed, Polly
and Aggy came tumbling downstairs in such
haste that their back hair rolled down. Zeph
reeled under the fervour of their embrace, but
she liked it.

Oh, how glad we are to see you all back
again ! ' said Aggy ; ' but you have come half
an hour before we anticipated you, or we would
have had things more ready.'

We are awfully glad to see you,' echoed
Polly. 'We thought we should like being
mistresses of the house, but really and truly,
if we had not been so desperately busy, we
should have been just lost in dulness, that we
should ! '

Mr. Treherne had never before realised
how deficient his younger daughters were in
all graces of style. ' My dear,' said he to his
wife, drawing her into the study, ' you ought to

teach those girls of yours to speak correctly ;
it is trying to the ear.'

But when do I see them, poor things ? '
said. Lies. Treherne. 'I am always in the
study.'

That may be, but it is a mother's duty to
train her daughters to be ladies. You do not
seem to have succeeded in that with those two.
Zeph is better.'

In reality Zeph was very little better. She
was somewhat more ladylike naturally, and she
said less; but the principal reason she spoke
better was that she made fewer excursions into
the less accessible parts of theEnghsh language.
Polly and Aggy were very fond of using words
they did not understand. In the meantime
Zeph had kissed her Jack and gone upstairs.
She had known that the house was small before,
but she was simply amazed at the extremity of
its smallness now — it seemed no bigger than a
nutshell. Polly and Aggy went upstairs with
her, loudly entreating her to tell them all she
had done.

VOL. I. T

Tell me something first,' said she. * Has

have you heard anything of John

Simonds ? '

What sort of thing ? '

Has he been here ? '

'Ko.'

Has he sent any note ? '

No.'

Any message ? '

'No.'

And you say that you have heard nothing
of him ? '

Wait till you have heard what we have
been doing while you have been away, and
then you will see that we could have heard
nothing. You knew before you went away
that he was to go back to his pupils — I forget
when.'

And is he gone ? '

'Most likely. Never mind about John
Simonds now, Zeph. Tell us all about the
castle. Fancy your living three days in a
seal castle ! You might just have written to

each of us once, with your address printed at
the top of your note-paper. We could have
shown it to every one we knew : I do so wish
Mr. Daylesford had been a lord — it would
have sounded so grand to say " Zeph has been
staying with Lord Berkhampstead." '

Zeph had seated herself on the time-honoured
black box ; her two sisters had
placed themselves on the floor by her side.
There was no warm fire, no easy chair — she
was once more at home. She told them all
about the ball, the castle, the state apartments,
pictures, gardens, everything. They listened in
awe-struck delight, only interposing a certain
number of appreciative ejaculations. Evening
was stealing on them — not unperceived, alas!
for what could one small candle, which someone
lighted with a very ill-smelling match, do
to hide that fact ? At last all was told, and
Polly said kindly, ' It must seem horribly
strange to you, Zeph, to come back to this
place after seeing things so well kept and nice!'
Zeph shook her head, and tears filled her eyes

T 2

even the scullery-maid at the castle had a
better room than hers.

It's no use worrying about what can't be
helped,' said Aggy ; ' let's tell Zeph our goings-on,
Polly. We have not been going through
such a magnificent phase of existence as she
has, but we have had some fun. Eun of a kind
that you would never have dreamed of, Zeph ;
in fact, you would not have had anything to do
with it if you had dreamed of it ; but we liked
it. Oh, Zeph, we have been living in such a
comical way ! '

Zeph expressed some uneasiness — she was
rather afraid of their fun.

We have done nothing any one need find
fault with — we have just had some fun, that's
all. We planned it directly after you were all
gone, and we lost no time in carrying out our
plan. Come into our room, and you shall seethe
result. Be quick, before that candle burns
down.'

Zeph went into their room, and saw two
new dresses of dark bluish-grey colour thickly

covered with crimson spots as large as a
shilling. One was hanging on Polly's peg,
and one on Aggy's. Every brass-headed nail
in the walls of this room belonged exclusively
either to one sister or the other ; otherwise
disputes might have arisen.

'We had been awfully in love with that
stuff for quite a month,' said Aggy feelingly.
Polly had a pattern of it in her purse, and we
were always pulling it out to have a look at it.
We did not show it to you, for we did not
want to hear you cry out that it was ugly —
you always do call everything we admire ugly,
you know. We began to save up our money
to buy it, but we only got a few shillings together,
and it was twelve and sixpence the
dress, so we did not see how we were ever to
manage to buy enough for two. When mother
was going away on Tuesday morning she came
to Polly and said '

I really do think you might just as well let
me have the telling of what she said myself,'
exclaimed Polly. ' You were not there to hear

her! — I'll tell you, Zepli. She said, "Now,
Polly, I am going away, and you are not used
to housekeeping, so I am afraid you will make
some mistakes ; but whatever you do, you must
not run up big bills for me — here is a pound.
You may spend that while we are away, but you
must pay ready money for all you buy. Make
it do till Friday ; and if you have anything over,
you and Aggy may divide it between you —
that will teach you to be economical." '

Well, in a moment we had a great, big,
good idea,' interrupted Aggy. ' It was my
idea, Polly, so it is no business of yours to tell
about it. We resolved to save nearly every
penny of the money and put it to what we had
saved already ; to pick our old checked dresses
to pieces for a pattern, and make the new ones
ourselves! Wasn't it a splendid idea? So
Polly went downstairs and told the servants
that if they liked they might both have a holiday
till Friday morning, and off they went to
their homes, only too glad. Then I went out
and bought the two dresses, and Polly went to

see how much food there was in the larder, for
we were determined not to bother ourselves with
cooking or providing, and we haven't.'

'You might have a right to starve yourselves,'
exclaimed Zeph, ' but you had no right
to starve Jack. It's too bad if you did.'

We didn't. There was good cold beef
in the larder, which lasted him two days, and
the next day we made him accept an invitation
to dine with a schoolfellow, and to-day
Polly cooked him a mutton chop. She went
out and chose it herself, and toasted it for him
on a fork at the drawing-room fire. He has
been well fed, and so have we, though we
have eaten nothing but bread-and-butter and
jam. And so now we have those lovely,
lovely dresses ! '

But how did you do the work of the
house ? '

We didn't allow the house to have any
work ! ' said Aggy. ' There was none ! We
never so much as went into the kitchen except
to fetch something. We never opened any

of the downstairs shutters, or lighted any of
the fires, or did anything of that kind. We
sat in the drawing-room and boiled a kettle
there, and made our tea when we wanted it,
and ate our bread-and-butter, or jam — apricot
jam it was, Zeph : we did go to that expense
and we worked away like galley slaves atour
dresses, only every stitch that we put in was
a pleasure. And how we did laugh and sing ! '

Zeph secretly wished that the dresses had
been prettier. They were too striking, but
her sisters' taste ran for the moment in that
direction.

They are sweet ! ' said Polly, patting her
dress.

They are just lovely ! ' murmured Aggy,
stroking hers.

But you must often have been hungry ? '
objected Zeph.

No, we have had food enough,' said they ;
'we have really enjoyed ourselves, and we
have cleared away all our pins and threads
and clippings, for we knew you would scold.'

But what can people have thought ? '

That we were away, if they thought at all.
I wish we had hung a card to the knocker
with " Gone to Berkhampstead Castle " on it.'

But what would you have done if any
of our friends had come to call ? Suppose
you had heard a loud double knock at the
door, one of you would not have liked to
open it.'

Of course not.'

What would you have done ? '

What we did do — take no notice. There
were some knocks and rings, but as Aggy and
I did not want to go to the door we sat still
and minded our work, and when the people
outside got tired of knocking they went away.'

Polly, how you do exaggerate ! There
was only one person came.'

Who was it ? ' asked Zeph quickly.

We don't know. We were half inclined
to peep, but we were afraid of being seen, and
we were so busy.'

It may have been John Simonds,' thought

Zeph, and then she took courage and said so ;
but they could tell her nothing.

The family tea was a plainer meal than
dinner at the castle, and there was no occasion
to dress for it. Mr. Treherne at once fell
back into his old way of living, and shut
himself up in his study with his work and his
wife. The girls drew their chairs to the fire
in the drawing-room, and sat there alone.
Zeph was very silent.

I do believe you have refused John
Simonds ! ' said Polly at last, ' and that you
neither like accepting him nor refusing him
when it comes to the point

That's just it, I believe,' said Aggy.

Perhaps,' replied Zeph, whose heart was
softer than usual. On another occasion she
would have resented this intrusion on her
secrets.

Oh, Zeph, he is very nice. Why don't
you take him, dears and get away from here?*
said Polly.

Zeph shook her head.

You ahva3^s liked him, I'm sure.'

I like him still, but I cannot bring myself
to marry him.'

I wonder why not ? ' said Polly.

I don't want to marry any one to have to
live as I am living now, but I am afraid he is
very unhappy. I wish you had seen him, and
could have told me how he was looking.'

If you don't care for him, I don't see why
you need mind how he looks,' said Aggy, who
was much the most practical of the three
sisters.

I never said I did not care for him,'
replied Zeph tartly, but Aggy for once made
no sharp rejoinder, for she could see that
Zeph's eyes were full of tears. Polly saw it
too, and they all sat without speaking for a
long time. The two younger girls were
astonished to see the proud and lofty Zeph
brought so low. They did not know how to
deal with her present mood. She had always
kept them so much at a distance that they
were afraid of showing any sympathy lest she

turned on them and crushed them by a sarcasm
as of old ; and so poor Zeph, whose heart was
very sad and spirit very humble, sat fretting
about her lost lover and love, and feeling many
a bitter pang of regret at the past, and apprehension
of the loneliness of the days which lay
before her. At last Polly and Aggy could
bear it no longer, and made signs to each other
and stole away. They felt utterly unable to
speak to Zeph as they would have liked to do,
and crept off to their own room, where the
sight of the two new dresses soon drove their
woebegone sister out of their thoughts.

As soon as they were upstairs. Jack, who
had been watching his opportunity to speak to
Zeph alone, went quietly into the room, and
sat down beside her, staring anxiously at her
wet eyes and sad face. ' Zeph,' said he, ' if
you have sense enough to cry at what you
have done, I'll just speak to you, I think. I
know all about it.'

You know all about what .^ ' she asked.

About you and John. I saw him before

he went away. I knew nothing about what
had happened of course, and went home with
Frank Simonds, and I soon found out what
you had been doing to him ; by the way John
talked to me — he didn't say much, you know,
but I guessed.'

Zeph looked at her small brother in great
astonishment.

Would you like to hear the message he
sent you ? '

Yes.'

He said that I was to tell you he had
received your letter, but that he did not
believe it was written by your true self — that's
all — at least it's all that part.'

What else was there ? '

Oh, afterwards I suppose he was afraid I
should forget what he wanted to say to you,
and he said he would write a short note and I
was to give it to you when you came home, so
here it is, and I've done it ; but I must say
this — if you have behaved ill to him, Zeph, as
I expect you have, it's a great shame, for he's

awfully fond of you ! No, you need not go
kissing me like that, Zeph. I do think it is a
shame, and I always shall ! '

Zeph did not speak — even this child was
against her.

And it's not as if he were cross and unkind
about what you have done : his mother is —
but he is not. He did not say one unkind
word. He is awfully fond of you ! '

What did his mother say ? '

I don't know — at least I do know, but I'm
not going to repeat it. Besides, her speeches
are of no consequence ; he said nothing bad.
Here is your note. Be a good girl, Zeph.'

Jack went to bed, and Zeph opened the
note and read : ' I cannot accept your answer
as final. It is impossible that you should have
changed so suddenly. Be your own true self
once more and write to me, as you have led me
to expect you would. I shall be in Norfolk
with my pupils when you receive this. Write
to me there. Dear Zeph, do write. If you do
not write within three days, I shall know that

all is over; but I have loved you all my
life.'

'It would be weakness to write,' thought
Zeph, ' but what would I give to do so ! No,
the struggle is over ! I have fought the good
fight, and I will not undo all that I have
done ! '

She might have fought the fight, but she
had not won the victory. She could not overcome
her love for him. She longed to write
and say that all should be as he wished, but
she knew if she did she should regret it. She
sat struggling with her heart's desire till long
after midnight. Never had she gone through
such anguish of doubt and bewilderment. ' I
am in no state to judge now,' she thought. ' I
ought to keep to what I said when my head
was calm. That is the only safe thing to do.'
She sat trying to harden her heart till half an
hour past midnight, when Mrs. Treherne came
noiselessly into the room on her way to bed.

You up still, Zeph ! ' said she. ' How
wrong ! ' She came farther into the room, and

the light of her candle fell on Zeph's haggard,
pale face. 'My darling, how wretchedly ill
you look ! I never saw any one look so ill in
my life ! '

Mother,' exclaimed Zeph rather wildly,
do you at all remember your life before you
were married ? '

Of course I do, dear ; why not ? '

'Do you ever by any chance think that you
would have been happier unmarried ? '

It depends on what you call happier. I
had a very pleasant quiet home ; ' and as she
spoke a smile at the recollection of the tranquil
half-forgotten old house passed over the poor
old lady's face. 'AH was pretty, and I had
not a care in the world. That was very nice —
very ; but then if I had stayed in it I should
not have had your dear father to love and look
after. No, I never wish myself unmarried.
Women were made to live for other people,
as I do ; and if they don't do it they are not
happy.'

Then I am afraid I don't quite want to be

happy,' said Zeph, kissing her poor mother's
pale face. ' You are a dear good woman,
mother, and I love you ; ' and so saying, she lither
candle from her mother's, and the two
went to bed. Thus was Zeph's fate for life
decided, and yet her mother's words • did not
play the part in the decision that Zeph would
fain have ascribed to them. They simply
chimed in with a resolution already taken. She
had been sitting for hours waiting and hoping
for some wind to blow the bark of her destiny
where it was well for it to go, and yet she was
all the time rowing it vigorously onwards to
the goal where she most wished to be.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XII.

ON THE BLACK BOX.

I question things, and do not find
One that will answer to my mind,
And all the world appears unkind.

Wordsworth.

What dull days succeeded that on which Zeph
returned home! One black fog followed
another, and when there was not a fog there
was rain, with an atmosphere through which
the sun never pierced. She did not particularly
care to go out, so she did not mourn the
loss of fine weather on that account, but her
spirits sank to zero. She had nothing to do,
nothing to take an interest in, nothing to think
of that was pleasant. She had driven away
the man who loved her, and would probably
never see him again. There was no one to see
whom she cared about : even Mr. Daylesford

had never come to pay that much talked-of
visit. What was she to do to employ her time ?
Polly and Aggy wearied her — they never came
near without boring her by expecting her to
listen to lonp^ lamentations about its being
such bad weather just when they had got new
dresses and wanted to show them. ' Are you
not going to see about some new things ? ' said
they. ' You are asked to go back to Berk-hampstead
in a week or two — you surely want
something new ? '

What's the use of providing what is never
likely to be wanted ? ' replied Zeph. ' Mr.
Daylesford will forget that he has invited us —
most likely he has forgotten already

Well, I'd be prepared all the same,' said
Aggy. ' He might send a letter about it quite
suddenly, and then you would not be able to
go. I have an idea, Zeph.'

What is it ? ' she asked listlessly ; she did
not care for anything.

You say that you wore an old-fashioned
dress when you were at the castle, and that it

u 2

was much admired ; but Mr. Daylesford is not
the only person who has old dresses ! You
seem to have forgotten what a lot mother has.
Don't you remember her showing us a whole
boxful once when she wanted to see if any of
them would cut up for herself, and father coming
to look at them and saying that they were
"highly curious," and that they were on no
account to be cut up or altered ? It's years
ago — you may know that by father's coming
out of his room, for he never does that now ;
but I remember them quite well ; though I
hate such ugly old things myself. They
belonged to her mother, and her grandmother,
and her great-aunts — sad frights they must
have looked in them, poor things ; but the
silks are thick and handsome. I expect the
Seatons were somebodies.'

I expect they were,' said Zeph, much
soothed bv this new thought. ' I don't believe
we think half enough of ourselves and our pedigree.
Father's family was a very good one, I
know, and mother's must have been good too.'

Of course it was. You may see that in
our appearance and manner,' said Polly loftily ;
but Aggy looked at her broad good-tempered
face and burst out laughing, and Zeph felt that
somehow there was a flaw in the evidence.
However, they got the key of the box from
their mother the next time they saw her, and
disinterred half a dozen lovely old silk and
satin dresses. Polly and Aggy would not have
been seen in them for any consideration — they
never liked to wear anything that was not
entirely modern, and as they fondly hoped
fashionable because they saw its counterpart in
suburban shop windows ; but Zeph was of
another mind. She selected a peach-coloured
silk and a sea-green one, which by the addition
of a few folds of Indian muslin made her exquisite
dresses ; and what was still more
delightful to her, she found shoes, gloves, and
fans which matched these old-world fineries,
lying neatly packed with them. When they
were arranged by Zeph's deft fingers these
dresses were perfect. This discovery removed

one heavy weight from her spirits and burdened
them with another. What would it profit her
to have rich and softly tinted dresses if Mr.
Daylesford had changed his mind and did not
intend to let her father and mother and herself
go to the castle ?

I expect he has quite given up the idea
said she to Polly.

I wonder ! ' said Polly thoughtfully. ' I
don't suppose he has, but why doesn't he
come ? '

At any rate, he might ask you all to dine
with him at that nice house of his in Ambassadors'
Gate. He does have people to dine
with him, you know,' said Aggy.

That idea had never occurred to Zeph.
She was silent for a minute or two, and then
said, ' I don't think we ought to expect that ;
he only asks us to Berkhampstead out of kindness
to father. It would be very unreasonable
to expect him to invite us to his London
house.'

Well, if old Mrs. Simonds is right — spiteful

old thing that she is — we may expect that
as much as we like, but he won't do it ! '

What has she to do with it ? What can
she know about him ? What did she say ? '

She said your head was turned with being
asked to Berkhampstead, and that's why you
had behaved so shamefully to her John, but
that you would live to find out what a mistake
you had made, and that Mr. Daylesford might
invite you to stay with him in the country, but
that you would not find him so ready to open
his door to you in London.'

Did she mean that we were not good
enough? The castle is a far grander place
than the London house ! '

I don't know what she did mean, Zeph.
She was very unkind and disagreeable, and she
didn't get half the bad things said that she
wanted to say, for I came away and left her.
I do wish Mr. Daylesford would ask you all to
the London house, just to show her she was
wrong.'

Mr. Daylesford did not invite them, and a

month and more went by without one word
from him. Zeph had by means of her mother's
treasures equipped herself entirely to her own
satisfaction. No one could have had prettier
or more becoming dresses, but what a grievous
thing it was that both she and they would have
to go on wearing away their beauty unseen and
unknown ! She did not altogether mourn Mr.
Daylesford's continued absence for his own
sake. She liked him, and would have seen
him with pleasure ; but what she did grieve
over, and most bitterly, was that the gate leading
straight into the joys of the great world, a
gate which he had seemed so willing to fling
open before her, was now for ever to be closed.
If he withheld his kindness, her future was a
blank ! Had he really forgotten her existence ?
If he had, that existence was not worth having ;
and she sat hour after hour on her black box
tormenting herself with this thought.

Zeph is moping horribly ! ' said Agnes.
I think she is fretting about the way that Mr.
Daylesford is behaving. I do wonder he does

not call. I think she is a little bit in love with
him.'

She is not ! I am certain she is not ! She
may be in love with his nice house and nice
things, and she likes going to Berkhampstead,
but that's all It is John she is in love with,
if she is in love v/ith anybody.'

Thus pitifully bare to the household were
Zeph's sentiments, and thus was she, the high-minded
daughter of the house (as she fondly
believed), judged by the two she sometimes
affected to despise.

Let us send her to do the errand father
has given us. I dare say it would please her,'
said Aggy.

So Polly went to her and said, 'Stepmother
has found a gold seal of Mr. Dales
in father's waistcoat pocket. Father
must have used it, I suppose, and put it into
his pocket by mistake. He wants some of us
to take it back to Mr. Daylesford. Will you
go ? You and Jack could walk there together
it is his holiday morning.'

If you like,' said Zeph, ' I don't mind
going.'

Did she seem pleased ? ' inquired Agnes ;
but Zeph had shown no sign of pleasure, and
their curiosity was unsatisfied. The truth
was, she felt no pleasure. She did feel a little
sad, though, as she walked with Jack to leave
the seal and a note of apology written in her
father's pretty handwriting and sealed with the
Treherne coat of arms. Zeph was glad the
Trehernes had a coat of arms and undoubted
right to use it. She knew her father was too
devout an antiquary to use it unless he had an
absolutely incontrovertible right to do so. ' I
dare say,' thought she, 'Mr. Daylesford was
kind to us and took us all to Berkhampstead out
of charity, just ae people take workhouse
children out for days in the country. Well,
that coat of arms looks quite as good as his.
We may be poor, but we come of a good
family, and I am awfully glad of it ; but I wish
he had never taken us up at all if he only intended
to drop us directly.'

They walked on briskly, for it was so damp
and cold. Jack was talkative, and found Zeph
dull. ' You are not half such good fun to go
out walking with as you used to be,' said he
plaintively. ' What is the matter ? '

Nothing is the matter ! ' she answered
almost sharply. She knew that he was a
strong partisan of John's, and did not want him
to begin to talk on that subject.

'I know exactly what's making you so
glum and different ; you '

Jack, be quiet,' said Zeph. ' You are a
little boy, and cannot possibly understand such
subjects! '

If you don't choose to talk to me on such
subjects when you have them of your own, I
won't talk to you about any of mine when I
have them — I shall have love affairs some day,
Zeph.'

To this not very lucid speech Zeph answered,
'Wait till the time comes. You are
sure to tell me when it does.'

Zeph, he did not look a bit the same : he

was white, and looked as hard as well, as

hard as hard could be.*

Zeph walked on quickly and got a few yards
in front of Jack. She had not come out to be
made miserable by hearing how John Simonds
looked. Besides, as she always told herself, he
was not the only one who was miserable. If she
herself had been happy and gay it would have
been quite right that she should be forced to
listen. Jack ran after her and said, ' Zeph, I
won't say any more, but it is a shame of you
to do it ! '

When they came to Ambassadors' Gate she
told him to run on and give the note and the
box with the seal in it to the servant who came
when he rang. She herself did not go beyond
Number One. It was daylight, and she was
afraid of being seen, for Mr. Daylesford might
be somewhere near.

While Jack was waiting for the servant, a
very small boy with a cardboard box in his
hand came to her and said, ' Please, ma'am, do
you know if this is Battledore's Place ? '

Do you mean Ambassadors' Gate ? ' she
asked.

I don't know — perhaps that's it,' said he,
fumbling with the box, and turning it round
and round while trying to decipher an address
which he was obviously unable to read. Zeph
looked at it over his shoulder to see if she could
help him, and read, ' Mrs. Daylesford, 11 Ambassadors'
Gate.' Mrs. Daylesford ! She was
strangely startled. His mother was dead —
she knew that ; so he was married ! That,
then, was why he had not been to see them.
He was certainly not married when they were
at the castle with him, for he always spoke of
himself as entirely alone in the world, with no
one to care for him but a brother who lived
thousands of miles away. He had married after
his return to London, and that was why he had
not been to see them, and that too was why
he never would come ; and as these thoughts
careered through her mind Zeph was conscious
that the warm blood was rushing into her
cheeks — she felt it tinging there, and knew

that she was blushing violently. 'It is that
house where you see a little boy standing in
the portico said she hastily, to get rid of the
errand-boy, for she felt ashamed that even this
small boy should see her surprise. ' Inquire at
that house, and then I think you will find it is
all right.' Never before this moment had she
admitted to herself that there had been anything
especially noticeable in Daylesford's manner
towards herself. Now a rush of sudden
consciousness made it clear to her that somehow
he had behaved in such a way as made it almost
wrong for him to be married. He must
even then have been engaged. Her pride came
to her rescue at once. She had never felt one
moment's love for this man : why should she
care whether he was married or not .^ ' Why,
indeed ? ' she repeated, drawing herself up.

I have done it,' said Jack, running back
to her. ' I say, what awfully pretty red cheeks
you have got ! Zeph, 1 never saw them half
so red ! '

They grew even redder at this speech, and

then she saw the boy with the box in parley
with the footman who had just taken Jack's
Httle packet and letter from him. Whatever
the man said, he kept possession of the box,
and carried it into the house with him. Now
the door was shut and the boy was coming
quickly towards her empty-handed.

Stop till I ask that boy if I directed him
right,* said Zeph. ' Was that the right house,
boy ? ' she asked.

'Yes, ma'am.'

Does the — the person the parcel was for
live there ? '

Yes,' said the boy, who did not seem able
to spare a second ' ma'am,' and passed on.

What is the matter, Zeph .^ ' How queer
you look ! ' •

I don't ! ' replied Zeph almost angrily.
Why should I ? We have done what we
were sent out to do — come home.'

Jack was afraid from this that the walk was
going to be very dull, but she talked the whole
way and he was happy.

That woman won't want us in her house,'
she thought. ' Father may perhaps be allowed
to make catalogues and arrange papers, but it is
not at all likely that she will care to have three
people whom she does not know or want to
know staying for weeks together with her — so
that pleasure is lost ! '

Zeph was heavy at heart. She had been
offered a magnificent chance of escaping for a
while from the lowly life in Lome Gardens, and
just as she was hoping to avail herself of this
chance it was rudely snatched from her. ' He
must have been engaged when we were there ! '
she repeated ; ' but Mrs. Scatcherd cannot have
known it, or she would have told me. I
should like to know his bride's name.'

She went to a news-agent's office near home,
and asked to be allowed to search the back
numbers of the Times for the last ^nq weeks,
and having carefully read all the marriages
during that time, without finding any of which
Mr. Daylesford had been the hero, she was
certain that the wedding could not have taken

place so recently. Then he had been married
all the time she had known him ! There was
no reason why he should not, but she never
should have guessed it.

An hour or two later, when Zeph was
sitting on her black box pondering over these
things, Agnes ran upstairs so quickly that she
could hardly speak, to tell her that Mr. Dales
was in the drawing-room, and that it was
very lucky there was a fire.

Who is with him ? '

'No one. You are to go down and say
father is coming directly. Mother told me to
tell you. She is just putting him into his best
coat, she says.'

Zeph rose reluctantly. If Mr. Daylesford
was going to cheat her out of her visit to
Berkhampstead, and all that that visit implied
of gaiety and pleasure, she did not think she
particularly wanted to see him. As she slowly
descended the stairs she composed a subtly
arranged sentence which she hoped would
bring out the truth.

VOL. I. X

How are you ? ' said he, coining eagerly
forward and looking much pleased to see
her.

Perfectly well, thank you ; ' and then she
launched her sentence, ' Do tell fine if anything
of importance has happened to you since I saw
you last ? '

He took this with perfect calmness, and said
very quietly, ' Nothing ; I wish it were otherwise.
I suppose you refer to the one thing in
which I am most interested ? '

Then, nothing has happened ? And have
you done anything particular since I last had
the pleasure of seeing you ? '

Absolutely nothing ! I have just led the
ordinary hum-drum life of a British citizen ; my
existence has been entirely uneventful. I ought
to have come to see you before, but you know
how time slips away.'

Zeph didn't. Time never slipped away with
her, and she was inclined to resent his words ;
but, after all, so long as he did not forget that
he had invited them to pay him a long visit in

April they had no right to blame him for not
coming to see them before.

Mr. and Mrs. Treherne now appeared. He
had been swept and garnished. She had not
had time to improve her own appearance, but
her husband had insisted on her coming
upstairs with him.

Father's note of the morning has brought
us back to Mr. Daylesford's mind,' thought
Zeph, ' that's all — he had forgotten us I '

But no : he at once said, ' How is the book
getting on, Mr. Treherne ? You recollect your
promise, I hope .^ April will be here in a day
or two. You promised to come back to Berk-hampstead
in April, and to bring Mrs. and Miss
Treherne with you ; ' and so saying he included
the mother and daughter in a well-distributed
bow, making them both richer by the sight of
a smile so kindly and pleasant that it was impossible
not to feel the happier for it.

Oh, indeed I have not forgotten,' replied
Mr. Treherne. 'I should like to know how I
could forget such a delightful invitation ; but it

X 2

will be May, I am afraid, before I can say that
my book is really out of my hands.'

Then let it be May. Come when you like,
my dear sir ; but the sooner the better.'

Zeph heard this with dismay, for her green
serge, on which she was relying for a change,
would be of no use in May. Besides, if his wife
was to be there, and no doubt she would be,
she herself would require much better dresses.
Washed white muslins might do for men's eyes,
but not for women's ! Zeph was very absent,
but conversation seemed to flourish without
much aid from her ; Daylesford stayed some
tune, and was very pleasant, and on his departure
presented Zeph with an order for a box
at one of the theatres.

J^ext day he came again, but this time he
said he had a favour to ask. He had a friend
who had recently become possessed of a small
collection of what he believed to be extremely
choice MSS., and would be very grateful if Mr,
Treherne would look at them and give him
some idea of their importance.

Mr. Treherne was all willingness to look
at them whenever he liked to send them.

You are very kind,' replied Daylesford,
but he is most anxious to see you ; he has
other things that he is anxious to show you and
consult you about, and he has ventured to send
me nth a humble petition. I am to dine with
him to-night, and he wants you to be so very
kind as to accept an informal invitation and
accompany me.'

Mr. Treherne was silent for a moment.
Daylesford hastened to add, ' He is not able to
make calls — he is an invalid ; and besides, you
would not care to have people calling, and it is
no party ; there will be no one but ourselves.
Do go ; I beg it as a favour to myself, for it
will be such a kindness.'

Slowly and rather reluctantly Mr. Treherne
yielded. He had not dined out for years. He
was glad to do anything in his power to
oblige his generous friend, but the sacrifice was
great.

He lives very near me,' said Daylesford,

at No. 19 Queen Elizabeth Street. Shall we
meet there ? He dines at a quarter to eight.'
It was settled that they should meet there,
and after a pleasant visit Daylesford took his
leave.

Was he married? That, as Zeph told
herself, was not a matter of particular importance
to her ; but somehow he did not look like
a married man.

Who will walk with father to Queen
Elizabeth Street?' asked Mrs. Treherne. She
was nnich excited by such an unusual event asher
husband's going out to dinner.

Let Zeph and Jack go,' replied Agnes,
carelessly. Zeph made no objection; she had
nothing to do indoors, and was glad to undertake
anything which made her feel as if her
existence was not utterly useless. That was by
no means the case during this walk. She had
not seen her father in the streets for years, and
was pained to find how old and helpless he
looked. The darkness bewildered him, the
swift silent approach of the numerous carriages

which be rat alarmed him ; he feU wholly
unequal to steering his course through the
dimly lighted unfamiliar thoroughfares.

'Take my arm, dear,' said Zeph, who was
full of love and pity for him. He walked so
hesitatingly and seemed so old and frail and
out of place in the world of men, that her heart
ached. ' Take my arm, and let me guide
you.'

Yes, help me, dear,' said he. ' You are a
good kind girl, Zeph.'

Zeph breathed more freely. Life even in
Lome Gardens was worth having when she
was conscious of being loved and wanted by
those with whom she lived.

'It is a long and weary way ! ' said Mr.
Treherne at last.

You ought to have had a cab, dear,' she
replied, feeling much self-reproach at not having
suggested this,

Oh no, a cab would have cost I don't know
how much-this hateful want of money
troubled them at every turn ! It was too far

for Mr. Treherne to walk — he was so unused
to exercise.

Promise me to have a cab to come home,'
said she.

Yes, I promise that.' They were now in
Queen Elizabeth Street, but Zeph would not
leave him till he reached the door of the house
to which he was bound. ' Give me a kiss
before I go,' said she. He stooped down and
kissed her. ' Good-bye, dear,' said she. ' Be
sure not to forget the cab. By-the-bye, have
you any money ? '

Yes, Mr. Treherne had money, though how
that happened was one of those mysteries which
never can be explained, for he never carried
such a thing about him, and never had any need
of it. They waited until they saw him safely
in the house, and then pursued their way
homeward. Ambassadors' Gate was the next
street. They had passed Mr. Daylesford's door
in going, and now they were to pass it again in
returning. A carriage was standing there
which they easily recognised as his. ' He is

actually going to drive to Queen Elizabeth
Street, when he could walk in two minutes ! '
said Jack indignantly ; but before Zeph could
answer, the door of the house opened, and a
girl, who was closely wrapped in a dark crimson
evening cloak, came out, carefully escorted by
a couple of footmen, and entered the carriage.
To the Savoy, Thomas,' said one of them ; and
the carriage drove away. Zeph had seen everything.
Mrs. Daylesford — for no doubt this was
Mr. Daylesford's wife — was, so far as she could
judge, tall, slender, graceful, and ladylike.
Zeph could not see her face, but no doubt she
was handsome.

I wonder who that is ? ' said Jack. " He
is always having parties ! ' Zeph was rather
silent all the way home.

Polly and Agnes retired to bed rather early
that night — and with, as Zeph thought, a
strange and unusual knowledge of the truth,
they declared that they were in much need of
beauty sleep.

For the first time in her life Zeph enjoyed

a quiet evening with her mother. She discourse
of her old home, and Zeph, to her great
delight, was strengthened in her belief that
the Seatons had been somebodies. Mr. Tree
was very late, and they were beginning
to be anxious, when about midnight he returned,
not in a cab, but in Mr. Daylesford's

carriage.

How kind ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Treherne.
Mr. Daylesford is a kind man ! He has
actually ordered out his own carriage for
you ! '

Oh no ! ' said he, ' I should not have
allowed him to do that. I walked as far as
his house with him, and we met it just before
we got there.'

Empty ? ' asked Zeph.

'Yes, empty, so he proposed my going
home in it.'

I suppose it had just taken Mrs. Daylesford
home from the theatre,' said Zeph, quietly.

What Mrs. Daylesford ? ' inquired Mrs.
Treherne.

His wife, of course,' said Zephyrs

wife, my dear ! ' said Mr. Treherne.
That is impossible ! I happen to know that
he is not married.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

rR!\Ti;i) nv

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-stokes SQ0AKB
London

■•n*

^.H'

-i;<^ >

Heh'

'■

THAT OTHER PERSON

BY

MRS ALFRED HUNT

AUTHOR OF ' THORNICROFT's MODEL ' ' THE LEADEN CASKET* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



\Xhc right of translation is reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE
XIII. THE heart's misgivings 1

XIV. Hopes OF SAND 34

Xy. WHAT HAVE I DONE? .56

Xii. THE PENCILLED LETTER 80

XVII. A STRING OP PEARLS 103

Xviii. THE Accent COLUMN . . , , . . . 130

XIX. THIS WAS SUCH PLAIN SPEAKING . . . .156

XX. PEDIGREE SHAKING 184

XXI. BECAUSE I HAVE SEEN HIM 215

XXII. THE GOLDEN APPLE 233

XXIII. THE FLUSH OF THE ALMOND BLOOM . ' . . 263

XXIV. PARIS Borne 285

CHAPTER XIII.

THE heart's misgivings.

Henry. Let it content you now,

There is no woman that I love so well.
Eros. No woman but should be content with that.

Teis^ntson-.

All through the bitter month of March there
had been days when Josephine Treherne could
not refrain from betaking herself to her room
and her seat on the old black box, to bewail
Mr. Daylesford's forgetfulness of herself and
family. He was the only human being who
had ever shown any disposition to make their
lives happier, and he had ceased to care for
them. But Josephine Treherne was not the
only girl who was unhappy about Mr. Dales
There was one who lived under his own
VOL. II. B

roof who was making herself miserable on
much more substantial grounds, and when
April came and he sometimes spent many
hours of each day in Lome Gardens, she
was still more wretched, though she only
partly guessed at where he had been. They
had come to England together in November,
to a house in Ambassadors' Gate, which Mr.
Blackmore had made ready for his client, and
then she who had lived with him abroad for
nearly four years, and had never been parted
from him for more than an hour or so except
when he had to go back to England for the
trial, suddenly found herself separated from
him at every turn, by engagements of various
kinds, social conventions, and arrangements, of
which she, an inexperienced country girl, had
formed no previous conception. She had left
her home for his sake, but she had left it to
go abroad, and though she knew that she was
doing wrong, she was not made to feel it by
the visible condemnation of her fellow creatures
until she returned to her native land.

She had borne Daylesford's name, and they
had for the most part lived m unfrequented
places on the Continent, where English travellers
were rare. They had avoided every one,
and had spent their whole time in sketching.
It was a passion with both of them, and those
among whom they sojourned willingly left them
to themselves.

At length Daylesford had wished to return
to his own country ; he had his brother's property
to look after, and in many respects it
was inconvenient for him to be absent. Even
when he first came to England, ignorant though
he was of English society and its convenances
he had felt that he and Hester must no longer
reside under the same roof. He had told her
that he should seek a pretty home for her in
the neighbourhood of London, where he could
easily see her without offending that inexorable
power called Society.

Hester's ignorance of that power was profound.
' We know no one,' she had said ;
we want to know no one.'

B 2

'That cannot last long he had replied,
and had tried to make her see the thing as he
did.

She had, of course, yielded, but she had
yielded as people do to the surgeons knife;
and he, while assuring her that this partial
separation really must take place, had been so
touched by her distress, that he had day after
day delayed to make the final arrangements,
until February came, and she was still with
him.

These months in England had taught her
many bitter things, which she might have
known before, but somehow did not. She
discovered that Daylesford did not like to be
seen with her. When abroad they had been
inseparable ; now, though the intimation had
never been clothed in words, she had slowly
learnt, by trifling but convincing indications,
that she must never expect to go out with him
when he was in his own country. He never
let any of his friends see her. He had been so
little in England, that he had very few friends,

or even acquaintances — nut a dozen in all ;
but when any of them came to his house,
Hester remained in her own rooms. This she
preferred, and would have done without any
hint from him ; but it was painful to her. She
sometimes saw him studying the advertisement
pages of the 'Times;' she knew that from time
to time he went to look at some house that he
thought would do for her. She felt that she
ought to take an interest in this search, and for
his sake be willing to go, but she could not ;
for it seemed to her that it would be taking
the first step towards saying farewell to him
for ever. Her situation was much worse when
he became acquainted with the Trehernes. He
had told her all about his first meeting with Miss
Josephine. Hester had been very uneasy that
night about Daylesford himself, and had sat
for hours almost despairing of his return. When
he did return from his expedition to Lome
Gardens with Zeph, he had told the tired and
anxious woman, whom he found waiting for
him, what an adventure he had met with during

the fog, and what a beautiful girl he had seen.
He had told her of his subsequent meetings
with the family, and of their visit to the castle,
and then he had seemed to avoid speaking of
them. He had seemed to avoid meeting them
too, and had stayed with her much more than
he had ever done since they had been in England.
They had even begun to paint once
more, and she had been happier than she had
ever expected to be again. That was in March
in March, when Zeph was so unhappy. In
April, however, there was a change. He would
do no more painting ; when he was in the
house he was silent and preoccupied, and
when he went out, which he did continually,
Hester greatly feared that he was with the
Trehernes. She was almost certain that there
had been a period during which he had struggled
against the fascination which the beautiful
Miss Treherne exercised over him. She was
sometimes still more certain that this struggle
was abandoned — that he had yielded, and
meant to yield. What was a poor loving

woman, who desired his happiness more than
anything else on earth, to do ? The answer
readily presented itself to her, but she shivered
at the mere thought. The beautiful Miss Tree
! To a plain woman beauty seems such
an overwhelming power. Hester knew that
she herself was not beautiful, and had never
mourned the deficiency more than now. And
yet she scarcely did herself justice, for though
her face was one which at first sight might
have been called plain, there was something in
her expression which compelled every one to
look twice. It was the beauty of goodness
shining out of her bright, honest, and entirely
sympathetic eyes. Her face was of the good
old Cumbrian type, but with the strange contradiction
of a perfectly smooth skin and fine
complexion, in conjunction with strongly marked
features ; her lips had a curve or two more
than usual among the dales women, and her
forehead and eyebrows more shapeliness. Her
face might be plain, but it was for ever redeemed
by her eyes and the revelation they

afforded of her nature. Her figure, too, was
splendid in its youthful grace and vigour.

One sunny morning in April she was sitting
in her own room, shivering with cold and dread
of the starvation of heart and soul which would
be hers if she had to bid farewell to the man
whom as long as she lived she must love. ' I
had not the slightest idea such a terrible thing
as this could happen,' she said to herself. 'When
once we loved each other, I thought it was forever.'
Her thoughts then turned to her quiet
home among the Cumbrian hills, far away from
this noisy, changeful London. ' If we had but
stayed there, he would never have cared for
any one but me. He says that he cares for no
one but me now, but does he think I cannot
see how he is changed?' She heaped more coal
on the fire, for, warm as the weather was beginning
to be, she could not feel warm. 'It is my
heart that is so cold,' she thought. 'How
shall I bear it if I have to live all the rest of
my life feeling like this ? ' Once or twice she
caught sight of some object in the room, but

she turned away her eyes from it in pain.
There was hardly anything in that room which
she could now look at without feeling as if it
stabbed her. No room could have been
prettier, but almost everything in it had been
bought expressly for her, and with special
reference to her tastes and wishes. The walls
were light and covered with water-colours of
the lakes and mountains and waterfalls which
she had known and loved from her youth up.
There were two pretty white bookcases filled
with books which he had given her ; she had
read and enjoyed them all. ' I ought never to
have come here,' she thought. ' Never ! I
ought not to have left my home with Godfrey
as I did ; but, come what may, he has been
good and honourable to me, and if he has not
been able to go on loving me, it is only because
he has seen some one more like what he really
most admires. After all, what was I but a
poor little village girl? My only merit was my
love for him, and it is not worth much if it does
not last to the end.' And she sighed a long

sigh of pain, for she knew that, by lasting to
the end, she meant being equal to the sacrifice
of resigning him if his happiness demanded it.
Then her memory began to busy itself with the
past, a past not quite four years old, when she
had first seen Daylesford. She was an orphan,
having lost both her parents while still a child.
They had left her nearly destitute, but she had
been adopted by an aunt, the widow of a
country doctor, who had died young. Mrs.
Langdale (Hester's aunt) had stayed in the
lake-side village where her husband had died,
and gained her livelihood by letting lodgings ;
and Hester, who had been at good schools, and
was well educated, and in every way above her
station, did not make the smallest difficulty
about playing the part of upper servant to the
aunt who was doing her utmost to be kind to
her. This was how Hester Langdale had made
Daylesford's acquaintance. He and two or
three other young men had gone to the lakes
with a tutor, and pitched their tent at Mrs.
Langdale's house on the shore of Derwentwater.

Daylesford was reading for his degree. The
young men did a great deal of boating, mountain
dining, and walking, and spent the
summer most pleasantly. Daylesford sometimes
invited Hester to go on the lake in hia
boat, or to join him in some sketching expedition.
She had much feeling for art, and was a
charming companion, full of enthusiasm and
love of nature, and simple and innocent as a
child. After spending weeks in each other's
company an attachment sprang up between
them, though they scarcely admitted the fact
even to themselves.

These peaceful lake-side villages are often
full of subtle dangers, and fevers linger in
them for months and even for years. And yet
tourists come and go without one word of
warning from the inhabitants, for the very word
fever would scatter all the money-bringing
strangers. Daylesford sat down to sketch a
cottage with a lovely porch covered with roses,
and not till Hester saw the completed sketch
did he learn that three children were in bed

with scarlet fever inside that house — a fact
good Mrs. Langdale would assuredly have concealed.
He caught the fever, and the reading
party dispersed in hot haste, leaving Mrs.
Langdale and Hester to nurse the sick man.
In due time he recovered, and then came the
wrench of parting.

No sooner had he returned to Oxford and
gone in for his degree than he heard that both
Hester and her aunt had caught the fever from
him, and the next news was that the old lady
was dead, and Hester dangerously ill. He
went back at once, and saw that she had the
best advice and care. His return saved her
life ; she had been breaking her heart about
him, and did not care to get well, but she recovered
from the very hour when she learnt
that he was in the village again. At length
the time came when he must once more part
from her, but the thought of this renewed
separation was more than she could endure.
She was ill and weak, and she showed her
whole heart to him and entreated him never to

leave her. Daylesford at that time was only
one-and-twenty, and could not marry. His
father, who had always attributed all the misfortunes
of his life to an early and imprudent
marriage, had, when he made over a large sum
of money to Mr. Blackmore for the use of his
own wife and sons, inserted a clause in the
deed which forbade either of the young men to
marry before the age of twenty-five. If they
did so they were to forfeit all share of any
money left by him. The earl had died some
months before, but his death had made no difference
to Daylesford's prospects, for the papers
on which everything depended could not be
found, and though there was going to be a trial,
that would probably end in disappointment.
If he married Hester he would be penniless.
He had told her so, but again she had wept
and entreated him never to leave her.

He never went back to Oxford, but they
went to quiet places in France, Italy, and
Germany, and there they had stayed until about
four months ago, when they had, as Hester

thought, SO unhappily decided to return to
England.

At first Daylesford had been almost as
much out of society as Hester herself ; now she
wondered where he spent his time — now she
began to feel her loneliness.

On this particular day it seemed harder to
bear than usual. Godfrey was out, she did
not know where, and he had gone without a
word or message. He did not come home to
luncheon ; she ate some in a duty-manner, and
then went out into the park. The day was
fine, and the heavy pall, which had hung
above the great city nearly all the winter,
had entirely withdrawn itself, and seemed unlikely
to return for the next six months.
Hester breathed freely, and began, though
with a heavy heart, to take something of a
landscape painter's interest in the beauty of
the trees and grassy undulations. She longed
to make a sketch. It was so wonderful to
see a fine park lying like a green gem in a
setting of miles upon miles of brick and

mortar. And how crowded it was with
people who, though not a stone's throw from
the great highway and still within hearing
of street cries and the heavy roll of omnibuses,
could fancy themselves fifty miles from
London! She walked until she came to a
more reasonable frame of mind. It was folly
(so she told herself) to try to measure Dales
feelings by her own. He was a man,
and he had a thousand cares and interests,
of which a poor little country girl could have
no ken ; it would be madness to expect him
to be the same in London as he was abroad,
and, if she wished to keep his love, she must
be largely trustful and generous in her interpretations
of his conduct, and not chafe him
by watching his moods and spying out shortcomings
in his affection. The open air, the
bright sun, and direct intercourse with such
nature as was to be found ' within the radius,'
soon restored her spirits to a certain amount
of buoyancy ; she was depressed, but by no
means despairing, ' I hope he love me still,'

she said ; ' I shall believe he does until it is
certain that he does not, and then — and then
I shall go, and I hope I shall be true to my
love, and never say one word to make him
unhappy. But I cannot — cannot think such
a martyrdom lies before me ! ' She sat down
on one of the seats, for she was beginning to
be tired. A nurse was sitting there already
with two little girls — pretty, interesting little
quick-eyed, quick-witted creatures — it was a
pleasure to Hester to watch them. She might,
perhaps, have enjoyed this harmless amusement
for twenty minutes, when a fair, placid-looking
lady came up and, bending over the nurse,
said, in a whisper loud enough to be overheard,
'Henderson, I often tell you how much I
dislike your sitting on these seats when you
are out ! I do wish you would remember
what I say ! How do you know what bad
character you may be sitting by ? Come ! *

Hester's face flushed scarlet. Those chance
words struck home with deadly precision, and
made her realise her position more than anything

that had ever yet occurred. They had
been uttered merely in indignation at the
nurse's disregard of a general order, and lead
no reference to Hester, whose appearance was
all that was modest and womanly. The lady
departed with her nurse and children. Hester
sat still, trying to recover the blow. ' I know
I have done wrong,' thought she ; ' but I do
not feel wicked — perhaps I ought — perhaps
God will never forgive me until I do ; but it
is hard to feel wicked when I know that I am,
and always will be, as true a wife to Godfrey
as if I were really married to him.'

She raised her eyes, and, though still at
some distance, saw Daylesford and two young
girls coming towards her. He was talking
gaily, and walking with a brisk, light step,
which betokened a light heart. He was walking
between them, talking most to the one on
his right hand, who was beautified and refined
as one of Raphael's Madonnas, while her sister
was a Eubens-hke beauty, with pronounced
features and vivid colouring. The first must

VOL. II. c

surely be the girl whom Hester most dreaded ;
how strange that she should appear just at this
moment ! Hester's heart died within her.
There was the woman who might possibly
win him away from her ! And not make
him happy! — was her next agonised thought.
Women can arrive at a very fair estimation of
each other's characters almost at a glance, and
Hester saw the truth. ' She does not love him,
but she will accept his love if he offer it, and
will go through life thinking little of the gift.
How cruel, how wickedly cruel and unjust it
is that that girl, who would marry any man
possessed of certain worldly advantages, should
come and take from me the only man in the
world I can ever love ! I wish Godfrey had
been a poor man, and I had been able to work
for him, and keep him all to myself ! Does he
really love her ? '

But there was no time to answer that, or,
at all events, poor Hester persuaded herself
that there was not, for she was not prepared
to face the situation if compelled to admit that

he did. They were now very near ; she
wished to leave the spot before he came up,
but dared not attempt to move lest her knees
should bow beneath her, as they do in dreams
when flight is the only means of safety. She
was obliged to remain where she was, but she
earnestly hoped that he would not see her.
They came nearer and nearer, and at last
were quite close. She had wished him to pass
without seeing her, but now it seemed so horribly
heartless and unloving of him to be able
to come-within a couple of yards of the place
where she was sitting, without being aware
of her presence, that she thought, if he did
so, it must break her heart. They were
laughing and talking gaily, and he was apparently
so well pleased even with the Rubens
girl, that Hester felt full of despair, for
she could see that something was making him
so happy that he was able to see good in
everything. He never saw Hester, but the
girl, who she instinctively knew was called
Josephine, looked at her with an interest which

c2

visibly deepened as she gazed. Either she
was struck by something in Hester's eyes, or
she had received some mysterious intimation
from her own soul, that there on that wayside
seat was one whose fate was linked with hers.
Even that gaze with its torture came to an end,
and they went on their way and soon disappeared
from her sight, but they left her full
of misery. And yet she was far from believing
him false to her. All that she feared was that
this beautiful Josephine occupied a dangerously
large place in his thoughts. 'Should I feel
this if I were married to him ? ' she thought ;
if I were, and we went to dinners and balls
together, I should have to make up my mind
to see him looking very happy with other
people ; but if we were married I should have
a claim on his love. If he took it from me fora
while and gave it to some one else, I should
be very miserable of course, but his house
would be my home, and I could stay in it and
love hmi all the same, and, somehow or other,
I think I should win him back again ; whereas

now, if he loves her, all that I can do for hmi
is to go away and never let him hear my name
again.' Her own thoughts tormented her so
that she could not sit still ; she hurried away as
quickly as possible to the more unfrequented
parts of the park, where, shunning every one,
she walked about for hours, thinking of the
dreary days which might be in store for her.
If she lost him she would be entirely alone in
the world, for she had not a single relative.
Besides, had it been otherwise, she never could
go back to them now. No ; she, a girl of two-ands
twenty, would find herself penniless and
friendless. She never knew how many miles
she walked that day, but at last, when the
light was waning, she, footsore and sick at
heart, began to return to the house which, upto
this time, she had called her home. That
morning's thoughts had destroyed her sense of
security on that point for ever. She was
beginning to know that it was but a house in
which she dwelt at the will of another. She was
there because Daylesford loved her ; when his

love came to an end, there was nothing left for
lier but to go. So she walked slowly back to
his house, envying the happiness of almost
every woman she met on her way. Some were
with their children, some walking arm-in-arm
with their husbands, and uttering the dullest
platitudes about the state of the weather or of
the roads ; but the men they walked with did
not seem to mind how foolish their remarks
were, and were not ashamed to be seen in their
company. Godfrey was ashamed to be seen
with her. What did that means It could
mean nothing but that to be seen with her
would be a disgrace to him. She could have
sat down on the steps of one of the great houses
she was passing as she thought of this, and cried
her eyes out. ' Is there no way of altering it ? '
she asked in her despair ; but, alas ! she knew
that there was none. If even he married her,
he could not now raise her, it would simply
mean that he must sink with her. His future
would be ruined. She had gathered so much
as that from some words of his own about a

certain friend of his. Almost every woman
would even then refuse to know her ; and Dales
was not the man to humble himself to
know men whose wives defined to know his.
If he married her, he and she would, for the
most part, have to be content with each other's
companionship ; and supposing, as she earnestly
hoped would be the case, that he were one day
to set about making some good use of his abilities,
this social difficulty would hinder him at every
turn. ' I knew I had done wrong to come to
him ; but I thought we should love each other as
long as wee Hved, and that that would make all
right.' This was her ever-recurring thought; but
the merest hint of Daylesford's changing his mind
shattered this theory which she had built up.
God help me ! What a thing I have done ! "
she exclaimed. ' I see no help on any side ! '

Her feelings were so overwrought and excited
that, when the servant opened the hall
door as politely and respectfully as usual, and
it closed on her without some one coming forward
to say, ' Go forth, this is your home 110

longer ! ' she found it difficult to restrain herself,
and felt as if she must throw herself down and
burst into a flood of happy, grateful tears.
She passed by the doors of the downstairs
rooms quickly ; Daylesford might be in one of
them, and she was not prepared to see him yet.
Unless, when she did see him, he should say
something decisive to her, he must not be
grieved by the knowledge of how she had spent
her day.

Half an hour afterwards, with all her tears
washed away, and no trace of past emotion
but an unusually calm restrained manner, she
went into the room where he was. He was
sitting with his back to her, not reading, not
doing anything, but looking into the fire.

You are thinking about something, Godfrey
^ ' said she humbly, and hesitating to go
nearer ; she was beginning at every turn to fear
that she might possibly be an intruder.

Yes, I am thinking,' he replied ; ' I am
wondering what you can have been doing all
day.'

This reference to the bitterness of the
bitterest day of her life filled her eyes once
more with tears. Tears were out of the question
now — not for worlds would she have let
one fall in his presence. She was still behind
him, and with a sudden movement of her hand
she dashed them from her eyes, and by a great
effort kept back those that wanted to follow.
She could do that, but she could not speak in
her usual voice ; her words came slowly and
sounded rather solemn. ' You want to know
what I have been doing all day,' said she,
kneeling down by his side and taking his hand ;
I am not sure I can tell you that, for I have
done so little.'

Have you been thinking, too ? ' he asked
kindly.

'Yes.'

Of what?'

Of something that I should like to say to
you if I dared.'

Hester,' he said, startled by the gravity of
her tone, ' what is it .^ Surely you dare say

anything to me, dear ? ' and with his free hand
he gently tried to raise her head, which was
bent down, but she would not show her face.

Wait till I have said it,' she gasped ; ' it is
only a word or so.'

He laid his hand on her shoulder, and at
first his touch gave her courage, for it was loving
and protecting as ever, but the next moment
its very kindness seemed to unnerve her. If
she did not speak quickly she could not speak
at all.

My poor dear Hester,' said he, ' you have
been worrying yourself about something. Has
anything happened ? '

No, dear, nothing, only I seemed to fancy
you loved me less. That might happen, you
know,' said she sadly, ' and I must bear it if it
did. Godfrey, be good to me, and if ever it
does, don't shrink from telling me.'

It has not happened yet, Hester,' said he,
drawing her towards him.

'Thank God! Then promise to tell me
when it does.'

You are too much alone,' said he. ' How
can such a thing as that happen ? '

Promise to tell me if it does,' she persisted.

All right ! ' said he so cheerily that she
seemed to feel all her anxieties flying away
from her in a moment. She kissed the hand
she had been holding in hers, and a warm glow
of happiness began to steal over her. Then he
made her still happier by saying, ' Don't let us
talk of such foolish things any longer. I want
to give you an account of what I have been
doing all day. I went to Bond Street to see
how your pictures look, and then I went to
the club and wrote to Marmaduke and had
luncheon, and after that I walked home by the
park and met two of the Trehernes ; I joined
them and walked all the way home with them,
and by that time I thought it was high time to
come home to you.'

He had told her of his walk with Miss
Treherne ; he had been perfectly frank and
open about it, and he spoke of her just as he
would have spoken of any other acquaintance.

What a jealous, morbid, discontented fool lie
had been ! ' Godfrey,' said she very humbly,
you are far better than I am ! I am afraid I
have been unkind. Tell me something about
Miss Treherne ; tell me a great deal about her.
I saw her to-day. I saw both of them. I was
sitting on one of the seats in the park when
you passed by.'

He understood in a moment some part of
what poor Hester had suffered, and on the spot
sacrificed to her his intention to drop into the
Levity ' about ten to have a few words with
pretty Miss Zeph ; he had promised to go, but'
not for worlds would he pain Hester further.

I don't want to talk about her now,' he
replied ; ' another time I will. I want you to
hear about your water-colours ; that's what I
have been wanting to tell you all the time. I
have good news for you : two of them are sold.'

Sold ! ' exclaimed Hester incredulously.

'Yes, sold. I went into Winthrop's this
morning, and he has sold them.'

Hester's face was radiant. The sale of her

drawings seemed to set a seal on her success ;
her patient labour was rewarded.

Winthrop wants more. You are to send
him some more.'

My dear Godfrey, I am so happy ! ' said
she ; ' now I shall work twice as well as before.
Will he really send me twenty guineas ? '

'I dare say he will pare it down a little
before he parts with it, but he will send you
something that looks rather like that sum ; but
what do you want with twenty guineas ? '

Oh, don't laugh at me ! His paying me
anything at all is so delightful ! It makes me
feel myself quite an artist.'

After dinner they spent a thoroughly happy
evening in looking over folios of sketches and
choosing drawings which Hester should finish
for Mr. Winthrop. Daylesford himself sketched
fairly well, but Hester's love of nature was
much more intense than his, and she had
looked at her north-country mountains until
she knew them by heart. They criticised bits
of composition ; most of the scenes depicted

had associations for both which they dwelt on
with loving pleasure ; they had not been so
happy for months. Daylesford scarcely remembered
that he ought at that very time to
be at the ' Levity ' — that he had promised to be
there.

Once, and once only, was the serenity of
the evening imperilled. Cheered by the success
of her drawings, and happy in Daylesford's
affection, Hester was emboldened to say something
which she would otherwise not have ventured
on. ' Godfrey,' said she, 'I wish you
would let me do something; it is a thing I
have often thought of, but until these drawings
sold I never considered my work good enough.
Let me do two drawings of Berkhampstead—
I might do one of the castle, and the other of
the church, or both might be views of the
castle — I have never seen either, of course, but
I know from all the photographs you have
what good subjects they would be ; I want todo
them as well as I possibly can by taking
pains, and then I will give them to you, and

you shall send them to your brother. He
need never know who did them, of course, but
I am sure he will like to have them.'

Then, seeing that Daylesford was silent,
and, as it seemed, perplexed by what she was
saying, she began to hesitate too. 'Am I
saying anything foolish ? Could you not take
me there ? I thought you could do just as
you Heed there, and might perhaps take me
with you for a day or two next time you
went.'

We will think about it,' said he nervously ;
I should like it, I am sure. The Trehernes
are going, you know, when next I go '

Oh, Godfrey, I don't mean when they are
there ! Of course not then ! ' exclaimed
Hester, with burning cheeks and heart transfixed
by a fresh stab from her true love's own
hand ; but she was anxious to preserve the
happiness of this happy evening entirely unbroken,
and said, ' Let me go with you sometime
when you are certain to be quite alone.'

Impossible ! ' said he. * Hester dear,

don't ask such a thing. I could not do it — it
is not my house.'

You are taking the Tr eh ernes.'

Yes, I am, but ' and he could say no

more.

Once again that day she was brought face
to face with her true and utterly sad, base, and
most pitiable condition. What he meant was
that no honourable man could insult an absent
brother by installing his own mistress in their
ancestral home. For one moment after she
had realised in what a dilemma her request
had placed Daylesford, she felt as if she should
faint or die ; her heart utterly failed her. By
a mighty effort she mastered herself, and said,
Godfrey dear, I begin to understand ; I see
that you could not do it ! Don't distress yourself
about it ; I don't really wish to go there to
stay, but I do feel as if it would be a pleasure
to me to do some pretty drawings of the place
for your brother, whom, for your sake, I cannot
help loving ; and I will do them ; 1 will go
there some time without any one knowing who

I am, and I am quite sure you will humour
me, and send them to him as a present from
yourself.' And thus, by an effort which was
little short of heroic, did the unhappy girl
pretend not to remark that even the man who
loved her best was compelled, when honour
called on him to exclude from his brother's
house all persons whose presence would disgrace
it, to include her among the number.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIV.

HOPES OF SAND.

Poor girl ! put on thy stifling widow's weed,
And 'scape at once from Hope's accursed bands ;
To-day thou wilt not see him, nor tomorrow,
And the next day will be a day of sorrow. — Keats.

Daylesford's heart was deeply touched by
Hester's sufferings, and for ten days or more
he sought no opportunity of seeing Zeph.
This was by no means the first time that he
had made a strong resistance to the fascination
she was beginning to exercise over him. For
weeks after his return from Berkhampstead he
had, as the reader knows, neither gone to
Lome Gardens nor paid her any attention.
He had, as he told himself, cast his lot with
poor little Hester ; he felt that he had acted
very wrongly, to use no harsher word, but

he would abide by his own act and be true
to her. So he struggled manfully against
the strong attraction he felt to Josephine Tree


Had Hester's little success inflamed his zeal
for art, or was it simply good-fellowship that
made him take out his colour-box once more
and set to work ? She sat at one table with a
spirited sketch of the Castle of Bracciano
before her, he sat at another doing his best to
reproduce the blackness of the pine forests at
Ravenna.

Do you think Winthrop would ever care
to buy one of my sketches ? '-said he, holding
the one he was busy with as far as he could
from him, so as to judge of certain points of
composition.

Hester hastened to express her conviction
that Winthrop would be very blind to his own
interest if he did not.

I am afraid there is no chance of it,' said
Daylesford despondingly. No one enjoys the
luxury of turning an honest penny so heartily

D 2

as those who are rich. ' I should like to do
something really good. Do what I will, everyone
of my drawings looks pretty much alike ;
now each of yours has a distinctly independent
existence.'

Yours are very good indeed ! ' replied
Hester, ' but they would be better still if you
were like me, and there were only two subjects
on which you ever cared to think.'

What are your two .^ '

You ought to know,' she answered ; ' you
are one, and my painting is the other ; I don't
believe I ever think of anything else.'

Working as you do,' said he after a pause,
you will soon master all the difficulties of
painting, and then it will be nothing but an
amusement to you.'

Hester looked at him in much surprise, she
lead not expected him to say that. That speech
showed the difference between them. He was
not one to eat his heart in the struggle to conquer
something which resisted all attempts at conquest.
She would have worked like a galley-slave

to reach any goal she set herself. He
would have worked fairly well, but each day
would invariably bring an hour when he would
push away his drawing-board and say that he
had done as much as he felt inclined to do, and
must have a change. That hour had come
now, and the day was yet young. He had not
pleased himself with a sky he had been trying
to put in, but he had resisted discouragement
for some time; now he said, 'I am going out,
I am tired of this.'

• I mean to stick to my work,' said Hester.
Come and tell me what you think of it.'

It looks lovely ! I'd give a great deal if I
could get those effects as easily as you do.' He
always implied that Hester obtained her successes
by mere natural talent, and never took
into account how hard she worked. ' I am
going out,' he again said, but still he did
not go.

Where are you going? ' she asked.

Oh, nowhere in particular,' he replied.
'Indeed, I am not sure I shall go out, after

all.' He seemed always to be halting between
two opinions.

One morning he came into Hester's room
with a large blotting-book covered with crimson
velvet with the Daylesford arms embroidered
in gold on each side. It had a lock, and
its key was a marvel of intricacy, having little
indentations and big indentations, and various
subtleties of invention for the better discomfiture
of nefarious persons, though a lock was no
longer necessary, as the seams of its cover had
been cut open, and it now gaped in a somewhat
unsightly manner. ' There ! ' said he ;
'there, my darling, I present you with a
collection of photographs of Berkhampstead
Castle. They shall be your own, to have and

to hold for ' but here he stopped suddenly,

for he became aware that he was accidentally
straying into what must be unacceptable hearing
to her — the language of the marriage
service. This having to be so careful not to
hurt Hester's feelings was, however, a new
feature, and took away much of the comfort

of home life. 'Take them,' said he, as she
seemed to hesitate, ' take them. I have duplicates,
I dare say, and if not, I can easily get
some ; and there are two or three sketches and
things — you may have them too.'

Thanks, they are very pretty ; ' and then,
to put him at his ease about her wish to seethe
castle, she said, 'I'll try to work up two
good views of Berkhampstead from these
sketches and photographs ; how very kind of
you to give them to me ! But what has happened
to this pretty blotting-book ? ' she exclaimed,
for when she had it in her hand she
saw what a condition it was in.

Its seams have been cut open, that's all,'
he replied ; ' everything was more or less maltreated
a year or two ago, when we were
hunting for papers.'

This can easily be put right,' said Hester ;
its only the sewing that has been undone, I
see — I'll sew it again for you at once.'

Not for me,' he said, for he saw that she
admired the embroidery, and he felt that she

would be pleased if he gave the book to her —
perhaps because the family escutcheon was on
it, and having it, made her seem part of that
family — perhaps for some other reason. ' Doit
for yourself. I present it to you, with all
that it contains.'
- 'Thank you, it is lovely! I never saw
anything so well embroidered; but what a
shame to cut it to pieces in this way ! '

It was my father's ; if you hold one of th
pages of blotting-paper to the light, you will
see that he used it when he was writing his
last letter to his lawyer. Look, there is one
passage you can read quite easily; it seems
like fate that that should be preserved in its
entirety, while the rest is only fragmentary :
My poor wife, whom, strange as it may seem
after all that has passed, I sometimes think of
with a certain tenderness." There are two or
three other bits which can be read, but there is
nothing so connected as this. If the genuineness
of the letter had been disputed, that page
of blotting-paper would have established it. I

thought I was " getting very warm," as children
say, when I discovered it.'

I don't wonder you did ; but you ought
not to give this book away ! '

Oh, yes, I ought. Take it — I hate the
very sight of it — it reminds me of such a bitter
disappointment 1 We all thought that there
was a great chance of something being concealed
beneath the velvet, so we cut it open,
and soon saw a bit of white paper appear. I
can recollect now how my heart began to
thump against my side when I caught the first
glimpse of it.'

Poor dear Godfrey ! and what was hidden
inside it ? '

Nothing was hidden. There was nothing
at all but a lot of white paper. I suppose it
was put there to wedge out the velvet cover,
and make the embroidery stand up well and
look handsome.'

Of course you thoroughly examined the
papers ? '

Thoroughly examined them ! I should

think so ; we held them to the fire, we put
acids on them to bring out secret writing ; you
may see the stains and burns yet, for all the
paper is still inside the folio. Yes, that's it.
We did everything we could think of

But was there no writing ? Was there
nothing ? '

Nothing but that pen-and-ink scribble of
a plan of the castle which you have in your
hand

How miserably disappointing ! But don't
lose heart, dear, I am quite sure that you will
find what you are in search of. I have a
presentiment you will. It is only a question of
time.'

He could not but remark that Hester was
using the very same words that Miss Treherne
had used on that last day at the castle. It
was strange that they should both say the same
thing.

Miss Treherne said the same thing to me,
almost in the selfsame words,' said he.

Hester recoiled. She had not supposed

that he would talk to Miss Treherne on such
intimate matters as this — her eyes filled with
tears. She bent over her drawing to hide
them, she had not even a monopoly of the
right to console him. ' Perhaps I ought not
to begrudge him the comfort of having her
sympathy,' thought she, but it was impossible
not to feel pain. She felt shame too. ' I am
always jealous and suspicious and envious now.
I shall make Godfrey's life as miserable as my
own.'

'What does Miss Treherne do all day?'
she asked, for she wished to remove the impression
that she could not hear her name without
showing signs of emotion.

Nothing that I know of. She has never
been taught to do anything. She is like a
pretty silver shell cast on shore by the waves
on a bed of rough pebbles. She is quite different
from the rest of her family. I am very
sorry for her — very. I think I shall go and
see her, I want to know when that book of her
father's will be done.'

You are going to Berkhampstead when it
is,' said Hester, with faint apprehension in her
tone. ' Is she going too ? '

Yes, and so is her mother

Hester did not speak.

I shall not stay long myself,' said he reassuringly.
' You know I don't like being there.
I shall go backwards and forwards ; ' and then
he went out, and to the Tree ernes.

Somehow or other after this, Hester and
Daylesford had no more happy working days
together. Next morning, when she got out her
Bracciano, she as usual put out his Ravenna.
His pine forests looked black enough to
encourage any one who was straining after
blackness as a merit, but he never so much as
came into the room where his drawing was.
He read his papers downstairs, and then went
into the billiard-room and knocked the balls
about a little alone, after which he left the
house for the rest of the day, and he did the
same for a fortnight or more. Sometimes he
was out in the evening too. Hester was very

lonely and sad, and had not the heart to go
out. She worked hard at the drawings she
was busy with, and tried not to be uneasy, but
her heart was full of sadness and her spirit void
of hope.

At last Daylesford said, ' Hester, tomorrow
I am going to Berkhampstead.'

For Ions ? ' said she ; for though he had
told her he should only be absent four days
when last they had spoken of this visit, much,
alas ! might have occurred to make him change
his mind since then.

For four days at the most, perhaps only
three.' She breathed freely, and said, ' I daresay
it will do you good, dear.'

He thought he detected a faint accent of
resignation, and after a hasty glance at her to
see how she was looking, for he had not been
paying much attention to her appearance lately,
he said, ' Why don't you take a little run somewhere,
Hester ? Suppose you go to Brighton
for a week, or to some pretty place on the
Thames, and do a sketch for Winthrop ? '

If you are only going to be away for four
days, I'd like to stay here. If I went away fora
week, I should not be here when you came
home.'

I shall not stay longer,' said he decisively.
In four days I shall be back. You look as if
you were afraid of being dull — four days are
nothing.'

Hester wondered how these four days
would be got over — quickly enough if she
were sure he loved her as much as ever ; but
days of doubt and sadness have a way of seeming
as long as months.

I will write you two letters while I am
away ; one the day after I get there, and the
other you will receive the day I come home.
Come, won't that do ? ' said he cheerily.

That will do,' she answered gaily ; he was
so kind that she would be a wretch not to
respond. ' I shall miss you terribly, dear, but
I shall not be dull.'

No, you have your profession to follow
now,' said he, with an encouraging smile. She

smiled too and said, ' If you could give me a
piece of real hard work to do for you, it would
help to make the time pass more quickly than
it will otherwise. I should like to perform a
hard task for your sake, and to feel that every
bit of progress I made was bringing me nearer
to seeing you.' She was so sweet and so
tenderly devoted to him that Daylesford could
not help feeling that it was wrong to leave her.

You should have lived in the days of
witches and fairies,' said he, 'and then you
would have had a room full of flax to spin in
four days, or a lake as big as your own dear
Derwentwater to empty out with a tea-spoon.
What shall I give you to do ? I can't think of
anything.'

Hester could not think of anything either.
They had been such a short time in the house,
that everything was in good order. There
were no cupboards or bookcases with the
accumulation of years in the way of books to
dust and put in order. All was trim and new
and well arranged at Eleven Ambassadors'

Gate — there was no finding any occupation for
the demon of unrest.

I shall have to set you to spin ropes of
sand after all. I shall copy Lord Souls — you
shall begin tomorrow, and you shall spin them
till I come back.'

I hope you are bound to me by stronger
fetters than those — you won't stay more than
four days, dear ? '

I am certain that I shall not.'

When he went away in the morning, she once
more reminded him of his promise. ' This is
Tuesday,' said she ; ' you will be back ? '

'On Friday,' said he gaily, 'and you
shall have a letter on Wednesday and one on
Friday. Good-bye ; you have plenty of time
to write, so you may as well let me have a
letter every day ; ' and so saying, he went.

She did not feel so unhappy as she had
expected. Four days was a long time, but it
would pass by, and she no longer feared
Josephine Treherne. 'I will try to do the
Berkhampstead drawings for his brother,' she

thought, ' and then I shall feel more as if I
were with Godfrey.' She began to study the
sketches and photographs. It was but a poor
way of setting about a work of art, but she did
not know that. Her room was full of flowers
grown in the Berkhampstead gardens and
greenhouses — they helped her to realise the
aspect of the place.

Wednesday came. She hurried downstairs
expecting to find a letter on the breakfast-table,
but she was disappointed. ' I must have
made a mistake,' she thought, ' and he only
meant to write one on Wednesday ; I shall get
my letter on Thursday.' But Thursday also
brought her nothing. She wrote to him each
day, and bemoaned her letterpress condition.
He will see how miserable I am at not hearing
from him, and be sorry that he has forgotten to
write — my Friday's letter will be a doubly long
one ! ' But Friday brought her no letter at all.
It is very naughty of him, dear fellow,' she
thought, ' but I suppose, as he is coming home
to-day, he does not see the use of writing.

VOL. II. S

Perhaps lie is right, but I should have liked a
letter.' She ordered a dinner she knew he
would enjoy ; she took infinite pains to arrange
the flowers for the table : she dressed herself
in her prettiest dress, and wore an Indian
necklace he had given her on her last birthday.
He is coming to-day,' she said to herself; ' he
shall see how happy his return makes me ! '
Then she went downstairs and sat waiting to
hear the first sound of his carriage. But it was
beginning to grow late. The train ought to
have been in three quarters of an hour already,
but trains are often late, and it was a
long way to the station. Another half-hour
passed, and she began to think he must have
driven home, as he did the time before. The
servant came to ask if she would not have her
dinner.

No, I will wait for your master,' she
answered sadly.

'We all think my master is not coming,
ma'am,' said the man.

Why do you think so ? '

He never does come without sending'
notice, and Mrs. Mason has had none. She had
a letter from Mr. Carnegie this morning, but he
said nothing about coming back — he would
have been certain to name it if they had been
coming.' Mr. Carnegie was Daylesford's
valet.

Why didn't Mrs. Mason say so to me ? '
asked Hester. ' She might have done so when
I ordered dinner, and then I should not have
expected your master, and have had this disappointment.'


Please, ma'am, she didn't like — she didn't
know but what you had had a letter fixing the
time master would return. I said I had seen
no letter from him, and Thomas said the same,
but we none of us could be certain.'

Hester blushed painfully. How terrible it
was that the very servants should know that
she had not received a single letter from
Daylesford since his departure ! She could not
speak, she felt so humiliated. What must they
think of a woman whose husband treated her

E 2

with such indifference ? for she never supposed
that even the stupid little scullery-maid was
aware that she was no wife, and that one and
all they despised her, and only kept up the
fiction of her being Mrs. Daylesford because it
suited their interests to do so.

You had better have your dinner, ma'am,'
said the man kindly ; he could not help being
sorry for her. ' Everything can be kept warm
for master,' he added, seeing that she was not
inclined to yield.

I must not seem to make his coming home
of such importance ! ' thought Hester, and
down she went and pretended to eat. The
soup she had chosen because it was a favourite
with him seemed to choke her, and so it was
with all she ate. ' Is there a post from Berk-hampstead
in the evening ? ' she ventured to
ask at last ; ' I have never had a letter at night,
but there may be a post.'

There is none from the castle itself,
ma'am, but when it is important lo get a
letter here by the evening, the groom rides

over to the town — it's only a three miles ride
and then we get it.'

I shall hear in an hour,' thought Hester.
Godfrey will know what I must be feeling at
not seeing him, and will either send a man to
the post or go himself; so much kindness as
that I am sure he will show me.'

But he did not, nor was there any letter
next morning. ' That means he is coming today
! ' again said Hester, who was determined
to put the best interpretation on his silence.
The housekeeper came to hear what she would
have for dinner. Hester gazed at her as if
trying to read her inmost thoughts. She
watched every change of the woman's expression,
anxiously weighed each word she
uttered, hoping to see some look or hear some
word which would show that Mrs. Mason had
heard from her friend the valet, and knew
whether her master was coming that day or
not. Hester longed to be able to say, 'Has
Carnegie written to you ? Is your dear master
and mine coming home to-day ? ' Alas that.

for the sake of that wretched thing called
dignity, she must deny herself the comfort of
putting this question !

And yet it was answered, and abundantly
answered, by Mrs. Mason's demeanour. He
was not coming ! Hester knew it only too
well. Mrs. Mason had allowed her to order a
perfectly plain dinner, just what was wanted
to keep a poor little creature like herself alive,
and nothing more. She would not have done
that if her master had been coming home.
She would have said, * Excuse me, ma'am, but
Mr. Dajdesford likes this, or Mr. Daylesford
never seems to enjoy that when I have prepared
it for him.' Hester knew her ways so
well that she was convinced he was not coming
that day, and it was Saturday ; so now there
was no hope until Monday. Alas ! on Monday
his return was as uncertain as it had been on
Saturday. Days passed by, the four became
ten, and still he neither came nor wrote. She
grew pale and thin, and was too unhappy todo
anything. She could not write to Dales

How could she write when he no longer
loved her ? Once a day, and once only, she
roused herself, and that was to see Mrs. Mason.
That good woman's heart allied for the unhappy
girl whose face had, as she said, become
all eyes,' and who ' seemed to be hanging on
every word she opened her lips to say.' Mrs.
Mason knew what Hester was longing to hear,
and though she usually had a strong opinion
about ' such good-for-nothing creatures as that
young woman upstairs, being fit for nothing
better than being put upon the kitchen fire and
bm-nt ! ' yet, somehow or other, when she was
in the criminal's presence her heart was melted,
and she found herself wondering ' how a gentleman,
for to be a gentleman as Mr. Dales
really was, could take and treat a poor
girl he had once made so much of, so downright
badly as he was treating her ! '

CHAPTEE XV.

WHAT HAVE I DONE?

The sweet land laughs from sea to sea,
Filled full of sun. — Swinburne.
Piling roses upon roses evermore. — Browning.

In February, when everything was cold and
unlovely, Daylesford and the Trehernes had
travelled through frost-bound lanes to Berk-hampstead
; and now that beauty had broken
loose again, and all green things were rejoicing
in having freed themselves from encumbering
sheaths and being able to revel in sunshine
and soft air, the same party made the same
journey, but. they used the grim iron way.
Even viewed from the train, however, there
was enough to make a town-keeping girl inclined
to do nothing but gaze out of the
window. Zeph had never before seen the

country early in June. It reminded her of
the scenery of the ' Lyceum,' but was a thousand
times more beautiful ; and when she left
the train and began to drive through country
lanes to the Castle, and for the first time smelt
the perfume of wild roses and honeysuckle,
her delight was still greater. She felt all
the pleasure of a child, and wanted to stop
every minute to capture some particular rose,
being quite sure that it was an exceptionally fine
one, and that never again would she have a
chance of making such a beauty her own.
Daylesford humoured her as much as he could,
but Mr. Treherne was in a hurry to reach his
journey's end.

Zeph dear, don't admire any more roses
and want them,' whispered Mrs. Treherne,
while Daylesford was pricking his fingers in
the hedge.

I'll wear these dear crumpled-up pink
ones to-night,' said she ; ' and now I'll have no
more, thank you.'

Immediately after luncheon Mr. Treherne

begged, as the greatest favour which could be
shown hin, to be taken to the muniment-room.
What a contrast to the sweet fragrance
of hedgeside roses was the odour of mouldering
parchment which issued forth the moment
the strong door was unlocked !

How very disagreeable this damp smell
is ! ' said Daylesford.

Disagreeable ! ' echoed Mr. Treherne, snuffing
it up with much enjoyment ; ' it is delicious
! It may be from association, but I find
it delicious ! '

He was at work again in less than half an
hour, and yet if he had been asked about it, he
would have said that he had been obliged to
sacrifice a very large portion of the day to the
necessity of being polite to his host. He was
now going to work as a paid official — he was
to have so much per annum until his task was
completed, and probably no one employed on
such terms but an antiquary would have
insisted on cutting the period of employment,
and consequently the amount of his pay, short

by working so early, so late, and so continuously.


Daylesford was once more Zeph's only companion.
They strolled about the garden a
little before dinner, and a great deal afterwards ;
for there was light enough then to visit beds of
flowers, and half see them and half guess at
what they were by their scent, and Zeph liked
to explore tracts of shadow, and to wonder at
the length of time certain streaks of sunset
colour lingered in the sky, and at the immense
size of the castle as night stole on.

'How strong and bii^ and forbidding it
looks ! ' said she ; ' how terrible it would be to
be out here and to know that everything one
wished for was inside that great mass of
masonry, and that never by any chance could
one get in ! What black shadows it casts ! '

They strolled about the garden till they
were tired, and then they went in and talked
until they were tired again. Zeph slept soundly,
and at seven awoke to wonder where she was.
The garden was bathed in light mist, through

which the sun was struggling to make its way.
She could see Phillis Arnold's grave, with every
branch of the cypresses tipped by fresh green
shoots ; she could see the heavy-headed roses
bending under the weight of the dew ; she
could open her casement window and gather as
much white jessamine as she wanted. ' The
country in June is simply a paradise ! ' thought
she, 'and the country as seen from a castle is
something better still ! ' She sat gazing out of
her open window until the gong sounded.
Daylesford had been downstairs a long time,
hoping to renew the conversation of the night
before. Zeph liked talking with him very
much, but she never sought his society. She
looked as sunny as the day itself when she
entered the breakfast-room dressed in white,
and wearing a sprig of jessamine gathered from
her own window.

What a delicious day ! ' she exclaimed ;
I have never known such a day as this : have
you, Mr. Daylesford ? '

It was very beautiful, but he had known

many such — he could easily understand that
Zeph had not, for even the June sun cannot
work wonders, and must have something beautiful
to shine on if it is to make a good impression
; in Lome Gardens there was nothing.

You will find the garden and park a
thousand times more beautiful now than they
were when you were here before,' said Dales
to Mrs. Treherne.

But I did not see them when I was here
before, Mr. Daylesford,' said she, turning her
mild, slightly bewildered eyes on his. ' At
least, I only saw what was visible from the
windows.'

Didn't you ? To be sure, when you were
here before, it was much pleasant to take
your exercise in exploring the house.'

'But I did not see the house either,' lie
replied despondently. ' I almost think, if I
could make a little time, I should like to see
something of the principal rooms and picture
galleries this time.'

Daylesford was shocked — it had never before

occurred to Mm that this poor lady was
really too much of a slave. She was meek,
loving, and unselfish, and she reaped the usual
reward of such virtues — no one showed her
any consideration ; no one ever imagined that
it cost her any effort to practise them.

I shall have great pleasure in showing you
the house myself,' said he kindly, ' and the
garden and grounds too ; and as it is so fine,
perhaps Mr. Treherne will dispense with your
company awhile this morning ? ' Daylesford
was distressed to think of her having been shut
up in the library day after day with the
mouldy air of the muniment-room forcing its
way into her lungs for want of any better.

But Mr. Treherne did not look as if he
liked that arrangement.

You will spare Mrs. Treherne ? ' said
Daylesford ; ' you will be so busy, you won't
miss her.'

I shall be busy,' he replied severely.
Work was what brought me here, and it must
be done.'

Yes, of course it must, Edward ; I'll stay,'
began Mrs. Treherne.

Won't I do for once, father? ' asked Zeph.
I'd like to be of some use to you, and I never
shall if you don't teach me.'

I like your mother best ; but if she wishes
to go out '

I don't,' interrupted Mrs. Treherne. ' I'd
much rather '

I knew it ' began her husband.

Oh, but you must both of you humour me
for once,' interposed Daylesford. ' I can't give
up the pleasure of escorting Mrs. Treherne
about ; you really must let her come.'

Very well,' said Mr. Treherne reluctantly
I must make Josephine do, I suppose ; ' and
taking his daughter's hand in his, he led her
away.

Now let us begin our rounds at once,'
said Daylesford. 'Perhaps we had better do
the house first.'

My conscience tells me that I ought not
to take this step,' said Mrs. Treherne, with as

much earnestness as if she were about to elope
with her host. ' I really ought not ! '

Oh yes, you ought, dear Mrs. Treherne ;
I will not allow you to change your mind.
Miss Treherne will be able to do all that your
husband wants,' said Daylesford.

'That's just it, Mr. Daylesford; that is what
makes me anxious. In reality he wants almost
nothing, and I am afraid she will soon discover
that, and not have patience to sit idle as I
do.'

Don't think about them,' said Daylesford
You will see that all will go right.'

All did go right — Zeph never knew how
perhaps because her mind was so full of all
kinds of thoughts, that its activity was reduced
to the level of her mother's, and she was able
to find his pen, and tie up documents, or undo
knots, when he asked her, mechanically.

'You are a dear, good girl, Zeph,' said he,
after a while, with a bright smile of affection.
She was so delighted with this that she began
to understand what was the reward for which

her mother worked, and to feel that it would
not be absolutely impossible for her to bind
herself in the same fetters.

Luncheon-time came, but Mrs. Treheriie
was so tired with her unusual exertions that
she had a headache ; so, in spite of Daylesford's
efforts to lure Zeph out of doors, she would go
back to her father, and Mrs. Treherne went
to rest awhile. This was a great deal more
than Daylesford had bargained for. He
was anything but pleased. If she went
back to the library he foresaw that he should
see nothing of her till dinner-time, and he
followed her to the library door and told
her so.

I am sorry,' said she, ' but I must go.'

At any rate, we will have another walk
in the garden after dinner; promise me that.'

Yes,' she answered, and disappeared. So
he went to Berkhampstead on business which
would otherwise have been postponed.

About five, however, Mrs. Treherne felt
better, and returned to her post ; so Zeph went

VOL. II. F

to walk in the garden. She walked through
the grounds towards the church, and met Mrs.
Scatcherd coming to call on her.

'I heard you were here, dear,' said that
lady, 'and thought I would lose no time incoming
to see you. Don't offer to go in. I'll
walk about here with you; the air does one
good. I have had such a day with some of
those wretched boys ; but don't let us talk of
them. It is the greatest folly to talk of things
you want to forget, and yet people always
make a point of doing it. How lovely you
look ! How do you think I look ? '

Zeph returned her compliments, and asked
after the doctor and the Vincent, and what
Mrs. Scatcherd had been doing ; and then that
lady said, 'Why is Mr. Daylesford not with
you?'

Why should he be with me ? ' inquired
Zeph.

Young people generally do contrive to be
together. I saw him going to Berkhampstead
an hour or two ago. He is a nice fellow ! He

must be lonely, though ; it is a charity of all of
you to come here ! '

Oh, but we do not come in that way,' said
Zeph hastily; 'my father is arranging the documents
in the library — muniment-room, I mean
for him. He is engaged to do it, and I
don't see why Mr. Daylesford need be so lonely
he has relations ; there is a Mrs. Daylesford
who stays with him in Ambassadors' Gate —
why does not she come here with him ? '

'My dear!' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd, with
eager earnestness, ' you don't mean to say you
know about that! That's a thing I should
never have dreamed of naming to you if you
had not spoken of it yourself. How could he
bring her here? The whole neighbourhood
would be up in arms ; every one would cut
him!'

Has she done anything to offend them ?
Don't they like her ? ' asked Zeph, with perfect
unconsciousness.

Like her ! ' echoed Mrs. Scatcherd ; ' but
surely you cannot understand who she is ? '

r2

'That is just what I do not understand,'
said Zeph ; ' at first I thought she was his wife,
and then I thought she was his brother's, but
I am told that they are neither of them married.
Is she an aunt of his ? She might be an aunt,
only I thought he told me his father never had
a sister.'

Mrs. Scatcherd stared at her in amazement,
and said, ' Then you did not know, after all.
Well, the thing is half told now, so you may as
well hear the rest of it : she is a girl who lives
with him — they are not married.'

Zeph turned perfectly white — even her lips
were white. ' You must be mistaken,' she
stammered ; ' you really must ; she is called
Mrs. Daylesford ; I know she is ! '

That is nothing ! ' said Mrs. Scatcherd ;
what I have told you is the truth. Don't go
and faint about it — you look so ill, you frighten
me. I thought you knew, or I should never
have said anything. Every one knows, everyone
here was very glad when he paid you so much
attention at the ball, for they thought he was

perhaps going to break loose from this horrible
entanglement. I hope he will do so still ; it
will be the saving of him if he is really in love
with you, and then he will get rid of this
wretched creature. It seems she '

Hush, Mrs. Scatcherd ! don't tell me anything
about her,' said Zeph, making a great
effort to speak. ' Don't tell me one word more,
I ought not to have heard this. Excuse my
saying it, but I must not let you tell me Mr.
Daylesford's secrets ; my father was very angry
with me for listening to what you told me
before.'

I don't want to tell you any of Mr. Dales
secrets — I know none, indeed ; this is no
secret — every one knows it.'

And people go on knowing him .^ ' said
Zeph, with cold scorn.

Why not, dear fellow ? Of course no one
would be in the same room with her, horrible
creature that she is — that is a very different
matter! My dear, don't look so ill and so
unhappy — he is not the only man who is living

in this way ; the thing is common enough I am
sorry to say.'

Do not let us say another word about it
said Zeph. ' How is Dr. Scatcherd ? '

Oh, John is well — he is strong — it would
be a very bad thing for him if he were not ; but
,1 must say one word more, just one word. Do
not be unhappy about this, dear ; forget about
it ; the one thing to hope for is that our kind
friend should marry some good girl whom he
can love and respect.'

Zeph shuddered.

If ever you marry him,' continued Mrs.
Scatcherd, ' don't go and tell him of this conversation.
Promise me that.'

I marry him ? Never ! What do you
take me for ? ' said Zeph through her angry
tears.

Oh, dear, dear ! what have I done ? I
take you for a dear, good girl, who may be the

means of saving him Oh, here he is ! ' she

exclaimed in much alarm, for she saw Dales
shutting the churchyard door and beginning

to follow them as quickly as he
could.

I cannot see him ! * said Zeph hastily ; ' I
won't. I'll say good-bye and go in;' and
without giving Mrs. Scatcherd a chance of
detaining her, she hurried back to the house
much too quickly for Daylesford to overtake
her, and shut herself in her own room. Her
mother was in the library, there was no one to
whom she could speak. She did not shed one
tear, she no longer felt inclined to shed any.
She was stung to the quick. She felt disgraced
by his notice, ashamed that he should like her.
She had never once conceived it possible that
she could know a man of this kind. She would
henceforth avoid him. She would show him
that he was mistaken in thinking that she was
the kind of girl he liked. When the time
came to dress, she put on her evening dress
with stern calmness, and slowly descended the
stairs with her mother, for whom she had
waited.

Why did you run away when you saw me.

Miss Trelierne ? ' said Daylesford, with a most
injured manner, as soon as she entered the
drawing-room. ' I wanted to have the pleasure
of walking back to the house with you.'

I was tired. My head ached. I was in a
hurry to get back,' said she nervously but very
coldly.

He observed — no one could have failed to
observe — the coldness of her tone ; he searched
diligently for subjects of offence, but found
none but this : she was cross with him for
some implied reproach with respect to her conduct
to her mother, and angry at having been
forced to take her place in the library that
morning. It seemed very unamiable to begrudge
her mother the few hours' pleasure this
had procured her.

I am afraid your morning's work has tired
you,' said he.

'On the contrary, I enjoyed it,' replied
Zeph severely ; ' I hope father will always let
me stay with him.' The tone of her voice
again surprised him ; he thought it advisable

to plunge into general conversation ; he would
have it out ' with her when they had their
walk in the garden after dinner. But when
that time came she declined to go. She was
very sorry, but she had been out before dinner
and was tired ; and when Mr. and Mrs. Tree
retreated to the library at nine o'clock as
usual, she rose to go to bed, and avoiding
all opportunity of being alone with him, and,
as he thought, showing some repugnance to
shaking hands, she retired to rest. He sat
puzzling himself about this change in her demeanour,
and used up the time he had meant
to have given to writing to Hester in vain
efforts to understand it.

Next morning she was just the same, and
when her father went into the library she
followed him. ' Find me something to do,
dear,' she pleaded ; ' I liked being with you
yesterday, and want to stay here to-day.'

He stroked her hair and said, 'There is
work enough for all of us, my darling.' So she
sat down by the table, prepared to make notes

of anything he told her ; this gave her more
than enough time to think. Mrs. Treherne sat
by them, happy in their company.

I seem to have got hold of a letter that
does not belong to me said Mr. Treherne after
a while, doubtfully fingering one addressed to
Mr. Daylesford.

Don't disturb yourself about that, dear,
you will soon have a chance of giving it to him,
no doubt,* said Zeph, eyeing the letter and
the pretty writing of Mr. Daylesford's correspondent
with great disgust and dislike.

I was not thinking of doing anything,' said
he, with his usual accuracy. * He is sure to
come soon, let it lie till he does ; ' and so
saying, he returned to his work.

The neighbourhood of this letter disturbed
Zeph; she knew who had written it. She
flung a sheet of paper over it, and tried to
forget that it was there. After a while Dales
came and asked Zeph if she would go to
the conservatory with him, he wanted to show
her a very fine orchid which was now in bloom.

No, thank you,' said she ; ' not this morning.



Then I think I will ride over to ,' said

he, naming a place about twenty miles off.
Alas ! who was there to offer any objection to
this if Zeph did not P and she appeared to be
absolutely indifferent. He turned to leave the
room with an offended air. Zeph remembered
the letter which Mr. Treherne had
already forgotten ; she pushed it towards her
father.

Oh, Mr. Daylesford, I have carried off
one of your letters ! ' he exclaimed ; ' I cannot
imagine how, but do forgive me.' Zeph studiously
avoided seeing how Daylesford looked
when he saw the writing.

He did not return till late, and saw nothing
of the Trehernes till next morning. No one
seemed to have missed him. This was Friday,
the day he had promised to go back to London.
If things had been different he might possibly
have stayed where he was till Saturday, but as
it was he would go — he had been too unsettled.

to write to Hester, so lie would go — at all
events for a week or so.

I am going back to town by the five
o'clock train,' said he. Mr. Treherne was the
only one of the party who showed any interest.
You of course will stay here with Mrs. Tree
and your daughter as long as you can.
I will give the servants orders to look after
your comfort.'

Zeph insisted on accompanying her father
and mother to the library when they went,
and there she would probably sit in dulness
and comparative idleness while the sun shone
brightly and all outside that room was gay.
Daylesford made no attempt to prevent her —
he knew that it was impossible. While he was
wondering how to employ himself, Dr. Scatcherd
came to ask him to go to Oxford with him for
an hour or two. Why not ? he could go back
to London from Oxford. So Carnegie was
ordered to pack his master's portmanteau, and,
after a few words of farewell to the Trehernes,
he went.

The ' Times ' did not arrive at the castle
till noon ; soon afterwards the butler brought
it to the library to Mr. Treherne with a grave
face. ' I want to show you this, sir,' said he.
I am afraid my master will be in a terrible
way! '

It was a telegram in large print : ' Appalling
earthquake in the Icarian Islands ! Alarming
loss of life at Santa Eulalia ! Grave apprehensions
as to the safety of the Governor ! Government
house in ruins ! Repeated shocks ! '

Pale as Mr. Treherne always was, he turned
paler. 'The Governor is Mr. Daylesford's
brother,' said he in a dismayed voice ; and
then he and his wife and daughter huddled
together over the paper to see if they could
extract a ray of hope from it. Two large
round tears rolled down Zeph's face. The meagre
words of the telegram conveyed nearly as much
as the complete account ; the rest was mere
amplification.

Do you think that there is any hope of
his being rescued alive from the ruins of his

house ? ' lie asked. Iso one dared to hope
much, but there might be room for hope. A
shock had fallen on the Trehernes. Zeph
could do nothing but weep silently ; even Mr.
Treherne could not work well. The evening's
post brought two letters from Daylesford, one
to Mr. Treherne, one to Zeph. He read his
aloud : ' A crushing blow has fallen on me.
My dear brother may be dead. I am going at
once to Santa Eulalia. I shall cross by tonight's
boat.' It was written in pencil, and
bore marks of extreme haste.

Did you say that you had a letter from
Mr. Daylesford too, Zeph?' asked Mr. Tree


Yes, dear ; I'll tell you what he says.'
But when she opened it she seemed much
confused, and at last said, ' I was wrong. No,
I have not had a letter from him.'

Presently she stole away to her room. The
letter was addressed to her by Daylesford in
pencil, as was that to her father, but when
she had opened it she read, 'I cannot come

home to-day as I promised, for I must at once
go to Santa Eulalia to ray brother. The newspapers
will tell you what has happened. Dear
Hester, ever yours.

CHAPTEE Xii.

THE PENCILLED LETTER.

Best of my life, farewell, since we must part,
Heaven hath a hand in it. — Duchess of Malt.

No, no, you have dismissed me, and I go

From your breast houseless ; ay, it must be so.— Keats.

On July 15, five weeks after the day when he
went to Berkhampstead with the Trehernes,
Godfrey Daylesford once more entered his
London house. He did so feeling much apprehension,
for he had not received one hne
from Hester since he had left England, and
yet he had sent her both letters and telegrams.
' How is your mistress ? ' were his first
words.

Thomas looked blank. First he stared at
his master and then at Carnegie, but he did
not attempt to answer. Daylesford repeated

the inquiry. ' Better speak to Mrs. Mason, sir,'
said he ; ' she knows best.'

Mrs. Daylesford is not here, sir,' said that
personage, when she appeared in answer to
his summons ; ' she left ten days after you did,
sir. She seemed much cut up about receiving
no letters, sir.'

Letters ! ' exclaimed Daylesford sharply ;
she must have received letters ; I wrote to
her before I left England to tell her why I
was going, and I wrote again soon afterwards.
Besides, she had telegrams from me.'

'None of them came here, sir; at least not
while she was here. A telegram came about
ten minutes after she had left the house;. you
will find it upstairs on Mrs. Daylesford's
sitting-room table, sir, and three letters from
you which came after it. But she never saw
any of them. We none of us knew you had
left England, and we didn't know, for sometime
after you were gone, what an alarm you
had had about the Governor's safety. That,
sir,' said the housekeeper, who was glad to

VOL. II. G

take this opportunity of airing a grievance of
long standing, 'was because of all the newspapers
going direct to the castle as soon as
you went, instead of coming here.'

Did Mrs. Daylesford not know that atone
time I was afraid my brother was
killed?'

'No, sir, she did not. She never went
out of the house all that time, so she had
not even the chance of getting to know from
seeing the placards, and no one came here to
tell her any news.'

But what must she have thought ? '
Mrs. Mason shook her head, and eagerly
seized this opportunity of making him uncomfortable.
'She was terribly unhappy, sir.
The sight of her when she used to watch my
face to see if I knew anything about you, or
when you were coming home, was quite enough
to break one's heart. She was so quiet and
gentle, and so full of trouble.'

But how did she go, and where ? '

I can tell you how, sir, but I cannot tell

you where. She sent for me one morning, and
said, " Mrs. Mason, I have decided to leave
this house."

'"A change will do you good, ma'am," said
I, though I felt sure she did not intend to come
back.

" Perhaps it will," said she, making up
her mind to let me think she was only going
away for a time. " Will you take one of the
maids with you, ma'am ? " I asked. " I can
easily spare you one while every one is away."
"You are very kind — most kind," said she
humbly, " but I must go alone. May Thomas
get me a cab .^ "

" Will you not use the carriage, ma'am ? "
said I. She shook her head very sadly, and
said, "JSTo, not the carriage, let me have a cab."
So I sent for a cab, and then I went upstairs
again to see if I could be of any use to her, or
show her any kindness. She was walking
round and round her sitting-room, wringing
her hands and looking at the books and
pictures. I said a few words of sympathy

g2

of some sort, I hardly know what, she made
me feel so sadly. But she spoke up very
quickly and said, " Don't pity me, Mrs. Mason,
I cannot bear it ; please don't, or you will
make me cry." There were two small parcels
on the table addressed to you. " Mr. Dales
will find them when he comes home," said
she, in a trembling voice. " May I ask you
where you are going, ma'am ? " said I ; " there
may be letters to forward." " Oh no, he won't
write now," said she ; " but post this letter
when I am gone, and it will give him my
address." And she gave me a letter addressed
to you at Berkhampstead. Perhaps you have
had it, sir ? '

JSTo, I have not ; no letters have been
forwarded. Do you suppose it is still there ? '
asked Daylesford hastily, and he rang the bell.
Thomas,' said he, ' go at once to Berkhamp-
stead. If the trains suit, go by rail ; if not,
ride ; but you must be back here to-night. I
want all the papers and letters which are lying

there for me brought here at once. — And now,
Mrs. Mason, have you anything more to tell
me?'

Nothing but things of the same kind, sir.
She went on walking about and taking notice
of all the things she had been used to see and
to care for, until the cab arrived, and then she
came to me. She held out her hand and said,
Good-bye, Mrs. Mason ; you have been kind
to me when no one else was, and I shall never
forget it." But when she stooped down and
kissed my poor old hard-working hand, you
might just have knocked me down with a
feather, sir, for all I am such a big woman.
She hadn't been gone ten minutes before a telegram
came which we made sure was from you,
sir. Poor lady, it came too late. I was miserable
all that day, and the next, and so I
am still, whenever the thought of her comes
into my mind.'

Did she leave no letter for me ? '

'No, sir, none here. She wrote to the

castle, where she made sure you were. That
is all I have to tell you, sir, except that I wish
to leave you this day month.'

Daylesford, who was thoroughly conscious
of the reprehension she meant to convey, went
upstairs, wondering whether she was taking
her departure because Hester had been there or
because she had left. Her sitting-room looked
very desolate. Every article of furniture was
in its exact place. Three unopened letters and
one telegram from himself were arranged with
symmetrical precision on the table ; other correspondents
she had none. There were two
parcels addressed to him. One was a flat one,
which he opened. It contained two sketches
of Berkhampstead. The other was a small key-box.
It opened by a secret spring with which he
was familiar, but there was nothing in it but
keys. She had left all the books he had given
her, and the pictures on the walls were hers
too. Daylesford was miserable. Instead of a
happy home-coming, he had returned to a
house filled by a haunting sense of the suffering

and sorrow he must have brought on an
unhappy girl who had none to show her any
kindness if he stood aloof.

Even if Daylesford's grief and regret had
not been too acute to allow him to settle down
to any occupation until his messenger returned,
he was not a man who had much power of
finding employment for himself on the spur
of the moment. He began to wish he had
gone to Berkhampstead himself. ' But no,'
he thought, ' I ought to stay on the spot, to
be ready to go to her at once when I get
her letters and learn where she is. I might
have lost some time if I had gone there and
had seen the Trehernes, By-the-bye, I suppose
they are there. It is strange how little I know
about every one. I think I will go and ask in
Lome Gardens. I have time to do that before
dinner.' He hailed a hansom, and soon was
there.

Master and mistress and the eldest young
lady are away in the country,' said the maid,
'staying in a nobleman's castle. The two

young ladies are at home, and so is Miss
Seaton.'

Daylesford remembered that Mrs. Treherne
had told him that she had invited Miss Seaton,
a cousin of hers, to take care of her daughters
while she herself was away, and how astonished
he had been that it should have occurred to
the Treherne mind that such a step was at all
necessary. He thought he would go in and
ask news of the family — it would help to pass
the time. The three ladies were at work. It
was evident at the first glance that Miss Ever-illa
Seaton had improved the girls' appearance.
They were quietly dressed, and their manner was
not so hoydenish as before. Miss Everilda (as
she liked to be called) was a small, bright-looking,
bird-like lady, of forty or thereabouts,
with large blue eyes and a profusion of light
brown hair. She had very pretty white hands
and a very sweet voice. Her manners were
even too refined and elegant, and her sentiments
were often much above the range of her
fellow-mortals.

Yes, sallier and mother and Zeph are still
at Berkhampstead,' said Polly, ' and being so
long away has done them so much good ; they
do look so well. And do you know, Mr.
Daylesford, Zeph is looking quite pretty ! '

Daylesford smiled ; he expected that when
he saw Miss Treherne he should feel inclined
to use much stronger language than this.

And, Mr. Daylesford, what do you think ?
No, you can never guess. We have all been
to Berkhampstead while you were away. We
never enjoyed anything, so much in our lives.
We went for a long day, and spent it with Zeph
seeing the park and the castle. Miss Everilda
went with us, and she thought everything
beautiful too, and you know she has seen a
great many more beautiful places than Agnes
and I have.'

It was most beautiful,' sighed Miss Ever-illa
; ' most ideally beautiful. Such a park !
Such a pleasaunce ! Such lovely green glades !
The place quite inspired me, and I felt as if I
could have written a poem worth something.

But it's no use ; I am such a poor tongue-bound
creature ! I have all the fine ideas, but I
cannot bring them out — I cannot bring them
out ! '

I feel so sorry that this visit took place in
my absence,' said Daylesford politely, ' but I
do hope you will consent to repeat it.' All
three expressed much gratitude, and all three
looked charmed with him and the kindness of
his manner.

We were so glad when we heard of the
Governor's safety, Mr. Daylesford. You must
have been terribly anxious. What a miracle
his escape was ! '

How did it really happen ? ' asked Agnes.

'At the moment of the earthquake he
started to his feet and got as far as a strongly
built doorway, and the walls fell on both sides
of him, leaving him standing upright and safely
built in. Of course the great danger came
when he had to be dug out. He really had a
very narrow escape ! '

What a subject for a great dramatic picture

! ' exclaimed Miss Everilda. ' I see it all
Ms grand figure standing nobly unmoved
amid the wreckage of his home — his heart
feeling nothing on his own account, but dread
of what you must be suffering.'

He must have wanted to get out though,'
said Daylesford, with a kind smile.

Ah, yes, to be useful to his distressed
subjects. I see it all — I feel it all. But it's
no use my seeing or feeling things so vividly ;
when the time comes to write, my ideas vanish,
and every faculty I have is benumbed.'

Would you mind telling us something
about the island which your brother governs ? '
asked Polly, with signal disregard of the would-be
author's lamentations. But Polly was always
practical.

He governs five or six, but he lives on the
principal one, which is called Santa Eulalia.
When I first saw it early in the morning of a
very bright day, it looked baked white in the
heat. We were in the harbour, and were not
allowed to land till the captain had gone on

shore and proved that we had a clean bill of
health, so I had time to inspect all that was
left of the town from the harbour. Father
ugly tall houses were built irregularly about
the shore, and there was literally not one left
standing that had not one or two great zigzag
rifts and cracks in its walls ; of course many
were nothing but heaps of stones. The inhabitants
were all camping out on the hills in funny
improvised tents, and every time a cock crowed
or a bell rang, they believed another earthquake
was coming.'

Did you not note down your thoughts ? '
inquired Miss Everilda. ' You could have
described it adequately. You are not like me
I have the thoughts, but I never can bring
them out.'

I had no particular thoughts beyond the
fact that the earthquake must have been a most
appalling thing, and that I was very impatient
to see my brother. But he soon came, and we
set quarantine regulations at defiance.'

Every one was silent for a moment. Then

Miss Everilda spoke. 'Ah, Avhat sights you
must have seen as you went through the town
with him ! Once happy homes turned into
heaps of stone, great forest trees lying uprooted
! '

Oh, no,' interrupted Daylesford, 'there
are no forest trees on those islands — there are
never-ending hedges of aloes, but no trees to
speak of.'

'That, too, conjures up great thoughts.
But, Mr. Daylesford, did you see no sign of the
dread enemy but the wrecked houses P Were
there no vast chasms which revealed the interior
of the earth smouldering in a red glow?'

'There were any amount of little bits of
sulphur lying about, which were mightily
suggestive of the bottomless pit, but I expect
they are always there, and I saw hot springs
bubbling up, but they are always there too.'

Oh dear, oh dear ! You are sure you
wrote nothing? Even I, hearing it all only
second-hand, feel inspired. Not that it is any
use ; more's the pity ! ' she added mournfully.

Daylesford beat a retreat, and yet he hated
going back to Ambassadors' Gate so much that
he could almost have stayed where he was.
His messenger did not return until late. He
brought a number of letters, among which
were four from Hester. The last of them contained
these words :

I am leaving this house for ever, to-day.
I have waited and hoped for some sign that
this step was unnecessary, but your silence
answers me, and tells me that the time has
come when I must go. I am so unhappy as to
have lost what was more to me than all else,
your love. I sometimes wish you had spared
me so many days of cruel suspense, and had
told me at once what had befallen me. Dear
Godfrey, let me call you so for this last time, I
do not blame you. I know that this has net
come to pass without you too having your share
of suffering. Let me thank you for all your
great kindness to me. Do not be unhappy
about me ; I shall work very hard and try to
be content. I shall always think kindly of

you. I have taken two or three of the books
you gave me, and the colour-box, and all I
need for my work. I thought you would like
me to do this, and I like having these things.
I have left the ornaments you gave me. I
shall never want ornaments again, nor ever
care to look well in the eyes of any one, now
that you do not love me. Do not attempt to
send me any of the things I have left. I am
going where you cannot find me, and I would
rather not have them. Good-bye. Thank
you once more for all you have been to me. —
Hester

Then there was one despairing clutch at
hope in the shape of a postscript. ' Supposing
that by any chance there has been some dreadful
mistake, and you still love me, put an
advertisement in the second column of the
"Times" with these words : "Hester, you were
wrong." I shall look in the " Times " everyday
for three weeks.'

This letter, alas ! had not even been seen
by him until the three weeks named by poor

Hester were gone by, and more than gone by.
Her weary eyes had sought the longed-for
announcement in vain. ' I can still do it,' said
he, ' and I will.' Then he looked at the other
letters. He opened one which had not gone
through the post, and found in it an envelope
addressed to Miss Treherne, The Castle, Berk-hampstead,
in his own writing in pencil ; only
the ' Miss ' had been torn off, leaving it doubtful
to v/hom the letter had been directed.
When Daylesford drew the letter out of this
envelope, he saw that it was that which he had
hastily written in pencil to Hester to tell her
that he was going at once to Santa Eulalia.
This explained everything. Hester had never
received one line from him since he left Ambassadors'
Gate to go to Berkhampstead. He in
his grief and confusion had addressed his letter
to one of the Trehernes, and every letter he
had written since he went abroad was lying
unopened on the table upstairs. She had
indeed been cruelly used ! After a while,
though with much indifference to their contents,

he opened some of the other letters. There was
a warm little note of congratulation from Mr.
Treherne on his brother's safety and his own
return, and as a postscript the words, ' I am so
delighted that you had the happiness of finding
your brother well. — Josephine Treherne.'

These words pleased him more than he
could have believed possible. And yet he put
the note which contained them on one side,
and once more took up the pencilled letter
which had never reached its destination. He
little knew what an amount of embarrassment
and trouble it had caused Zeph before it had at
last found its way into his hands. Somehow,
when he thought about it, he forgot to wonder
how it had gone wrong, or who was the person
whose name he had written on the envelope
instead of Hester's ; he thought only of Hester
herself, and left all else on one side. If Zeph
could but have known that this would be the
case, what anxiety she would have been spared !
She had felt that it would be wrong to destroy
the letter, and yet she did not wish to be sup-vol.

II. II

posed to have seen it. She dared not tell her
father or mother about it, and did not choose
to take Mrs. Scatcherd into her confidence.
She longed to solve the difficulty by flinging
the wretched bit of paper into the all-purifying
element, fire. Let it shrivel away out of sight,
together with other dark and unlovely things.
Ignorant as Zeph was, she knew that it would
be wrong to do this, and the possession of these
hastily written words, intended for the eye of
another, disturbed her. Ought she to return
the letter to Mrs. Daylesford ? She could not
bring herself to do so, even without a v/ord of
explanation. To the housekeeper at Ambassadors'
Gate, then ? That would not be the
same thing. Besides, her own name. Miss
Treherne, was written on the envelope, and the
person to whom she forwarded it would know
that she must have read it, for there was nothing
to show for whom it was meant until the
very end, where the name of Hester occurred.
Zeph knew that she ought not to destroy the
envelope in which it had been sent, for that

was wanted to show how the mistake had
arisen. She had no peace until she had decided
to tear off the ' Miss ' and leave the name of
Treherne ; that would tell him the letter's
history sufficiently, and he would surely not
dare to ask more. Having done this, she had
enclosed the letter in an envelope which she
addressed to Daylesford in writing as unlike
her own as she could contrive to make it,
and laid it on the hall table, knowing that the
butler would carry it away, either to forward
to Santa Eulalia with other letters, or to keep
until his master's return, according to the instructions
he might have received. That done,
though she had no idea that Hester's only
chance of ever receiving a letter from Dales
again depended on how this scrap of paper
was treated, she felt as if a weight were
removed from her mind. And yet she could
never forget the chill that had come over her
when she had found what she was reading. Now,
after weeks of delay, it had come back with its
errand unsped, to the man who had on that

day of anguish been so glad to give a guard on
the railway a sovereign for an inch or two of a
well-used pencil and some writing-paper.

That very evening, July 15, Daylesford
wrote to the ' Times ' authorities, and requested
that the four words which had been chosen by
Hester should be printed in the second column
of that paper for three weeks. Then he went
to Winthrop's. Winthrop was the man who
would probably be able to give him the information
he wanted, for on Winthrop Hester
no doubt depended for means of livelihood.
Daylesford now asked Mr. Winthrop if he had
any more of Miss Langdale's drawings.

No, sir,' said he ; ' I am almost surprised
she has not sent me some. I was not long in
disposing of those she sent me before, and I
have had one or two gentlemen in my place
who have taken a good deal of notice of them.'

Have you had no communication with her
since she brought them, then ? '

None but sending her a cheque.'

This was a thoroughly unproductive visit,

for Daylesford could learn nothing more. The
advertisement, too, brought no response ; it
appeared day after day, but all in vain. After
five or six days had gone by, he began to feel
assured that he had lost sight of her for ever,
and he sometimes felt bitterly ashamed that
this conviction did not make him more unhappy.
And yet his house, which was filled
with traces of her former presence, was most
painful to him. She had taken away with her
all her clothes, and every scrap of paper which
could have revealed that such an occupant as
herself had ever resided in the house. She
had done this with such care that it must have
been done designedly, and for his sake, and she
had left things which when he gave them to
her had made her cry with pleasure. These,
however, were in all cases things on which no
mark had been set which could prove that they
had been hers. He did not like his house now
that she was gone, and he could not raise his
eyes from the ground without seeing something
which brought an accusation against him. He

spent most of his time at the club, and only
went home to sleep, but when a week had gone
by in this way he was tired. Sometimes, almost
to his horror, he even found himself thinking
that it was better that he should never discover
her.

And yet it was strange that there was no
reply from Hester. She had kept her word
and gone where he had no chance of ever
finding her. He began to give up all hope.
Still he would continue to advertise. It was
dreadful to think to what straits she might be
reduced.

CHAPTER XVII.

A Seeing OF PEARLS.

Peu d'oeiivrage donne beaucoup d'amourpropre, beaucoup
de travail donne infiniment de modestie. — Balzac.

Miss Everilda Seaton lead a large acquaintance
among editors of magazines and weekly
papers — at least she thought she had. Perhaps,
as she generally introduced herself to these
gentlemen by sending a copy of verses, and
they kept up the acquaintance by writing to
decline her contribution ' with thanks,' the
friendship may not be considered warm ; but
as she always encouraged their advances by
sending more verses, and as they always responded
precisely as they had responded before,
it might in one sense be said never to languish.
You see,' said she to any friend who happened
to be at hand, * these editors are particularly

kind to me. They always make a
point of answering me themselves, and they
never fail to use a nice adjective when speaking
of my poor little efforts to express my thoughts.
If they chose to be disagreeable, they might
take no notice at all of me, but somehow when
they write they seem to write so gratefully.
It's the next best thing to being a successful
author, to have so many of these nice kind
refusals ! '

Having so many friends among the literary
classes, Miss Everilda was quite delighted when
a friend of hers, who had married an eminent
publisher, asked her to a garden party on July
30, where she was sure to see not only authors,
male and female, but those much more important
persons the publishers, who can, by merely
giving an order, advance battalions of type to
help you to rule in the republic of letters.
The garden party was to be followed by a
dance, and Mrs. Kennedy gave her old friend
permission to bring with her her two young
cousins, Mary and Agnes Treherne ; for be

it known to all who like to hear of instances
of the wonders worked by woman's quiet
influence, Miss Everilda had banished what
she was pleased to designate the odious and
unseemly appellations, ' Polly' and ' Aggy.' The
elegant-minded Miss Everilda had completely
triumphed over these two rough girls. When
first she came to Lome Gardens it had been
quite on the cards that they would act on the
impression that their mother's cousin had been
sent with a special eye to their amusement.
But Miss Everilda was kind. She pitied them
for being so ill-dressed and looking so awkward,
and being rich, did not content herself
with pity, but paid for dancing lessons for
them, discovered that they had good voices,
and gave them singing lessons, and bought
them some pretty dresses. Of course the old
Polly and Aggy were not entirely exterminated,
that would have been impossible, but their
worst vulgarities were banished, and a fine
coat of varnish was put over the rest. If Miss
Everilda had heard any of the doubtful 

THAT OTHER PERSON

]sessions of other days they would have pained
her inexpressibly ; but she never did, and
never so much as suspected to what depths
lier young cousins had erewhile descended.
The Kennedyss lived in St. John's Wood.
Their house stood in a large garden. It was
a half-wild garden, with a few fine trees
standing in a tangled mass of ivy, and there
were banks of ferns which the Kennedyss were
fain to persuade themselves were doing well in
London, and had entirely forgotten that only
a year ago they had been feasting on fresh
air and revelling in damp in a lovely Devonshire
lane. They looked very well in the
garden at Green Bank, for the abundant stock
of life and health they had brought up to
town with them was still sufficient to supply
them with vigorous new fronds. It was a
very pretty garden, with a large lawn in the
centre and broad walks all round it, overshadowed
by trees. When the Trehernes
entered with Miss Everilda, the lawn was
covered with people who were standing in

little groups, talking or silently watching a
very well-played game of tennis. Agnes had
never been to an entertainment of the kind
before, and her surprise was so great that she
exclaimed, ' Oh, my dear Miss Everilda, what
a number of delightful-looking people ! '

Indeed there are,' said Miss Everilda.
Oh, here is Louisa — Mrs. Kennedy, I mean.
How are you ? How kind you are to let me
bring my young cousins ! Don't forget, my
dear Louisa, that though I aija a frequent
correspondent of several of your literary friends,
I don't know any of them by sight. Is the
editor of the " Abstract Hour " here ? Do introduce
me to him if he is, and I should
like to be introduced to the editor of " Culture
" too. He has been so kind to me, he
has written me such nice encouraging letters
at least, he has gone far towards turning the
cold formal notice they send out, into letters,
by his pleasant and complimentary choice of
words.'

They are both here somewhere, I saw them

five minutes ago. Oh, that is Mr. Forester,
standing by the fountain with — I don't know
who is with him ; they are watching the
tennis.'

Watching the tennis ! Well, I suppose he
must unbend sometimes,' said Miss Everilda
discontentedly. She thought it was unworthy
of a denizen of the heights of literature to
watch tennis.

He is generally unbent when I see him.
Come and be introduced. By-the-bye, ,
if I were you, I don't think I would
mention having corresponded with him.'

Oh, but I must. It would be most ungrateful
not ; besides, it seems kinder to spare
him the trouble of racking his memory about
me ; he is sure to remember my poem, but
may have partly forgotten my name. Introduce
me, dear, do.' And the poor little lady
looked at her friend's face in eager anxiety to
know if this crisis in her fate were actually
close at hand or not. Her manner was so
nervous and her gaze so appealing, that Mrs.

Kennedy could not but feel pity for this upper-class
member of the great body of the unemployed.
' Come, dear said she. and began to
move slowly towards Mr, Forester, but she
stopped on the way to introduce Mary and
Agnes to some nieces of hers. Then they
walked on towards the fountain ; but halfway
there Mary exclaimed, 'Agnes, just look, do
look, there is John Simonds ; how nice he
looks, but how ill ! '

Oh, please do not stop now,' said Miss
Everilda ; ' do let me go with Mrs. Kennedy
now while she can stay with me, it is so important.
We can go and speak to your friend
afterwards.' So they hurried on, and the
introduction was performed. For one moment
Miss Everilda gazed on Mr. Forester as if the
rugged steeps of Mount Parnassus had suddenly
been smoothed and laid down with soft o-reen
turf for her weary feet ; then she said in a low
and nervous voice, ' I have so wished to be
introduced to you.' He braved and looked
down in surprise on the fair-complexioned.

blue-eyed, good-looking lady, dressed in delicate
grey, who seemed to attach so much importance
to possessing his acquaintance. She
was so obviously in earnest, and her manner
was so timidly eager, that though, man-like, he
felt a burning desire to get away from what
promised to be a conversation of an unusual
kind, he still felt interest and a certain unaccountable
pity.

'It was so very kind of you to send me
those few words of encouragement — about my
String of Pearls," you know.'

Mrs. Kennedy saw that Mr. Forester had
not the least idea what Miss Everilda meant,
and said in a low voice, ' Something Miss
Seaton sent you for the magazine, I think ; '
then her attention was claimed by some one
else, and John Simonds had come up to speak
to Mary and Agnes, so Mr. Forester was left
with his tormentor.

'Yes,' said she, glad of the help Mrs.
Kennedy had given her ; ' a little poem I sent
you.' (Untrained writers always talk of their

poems ; a poet contents himself with calling
them verses.) 'I christened it "A String of
Pearls," because, you see, it was rather like a
string of pearls. I have the thoughts, but find
it so difficult to give them expression ; I am
shy even with myself. I did somehow manage
to utter some small part of what I was feeling,
but not in the regular connected way that anyone
of a less timid and sealed-up nature could
have done. So I gave the poem a title to
show that I did not consider that I had
achieved quite as much as I ought to have
done. You did not accept it for your magazine,
perhaps I ought not to have expected you
to do so, but you wrote such a kind little word
on the printed notice ; without your name, of
course, but I learnt that when I came here today.'


Mr. Forester looked bewildered ; he remembered
the poem, but he did not remember
any special kindness in the refusal of it, or that
he had any hand in it.

It is only a fortnight ago, and you may

have forgotten the circumstance entirely, but I
have not, and I thank you.'

I am afraid you are thanking me for very
little,' said he, bowing and preparing to move
away. He did remember the ' poem ' in question,
but only because of the very odd note
which had accompanied it. He had read that
first, and had then turned to look at 'The
String of Pearls.' He had found the string
easily enough, but had never succeeded in
finding the pearls, and had declined the contribution
with the editor's compliments and many
thanks, and that was all. He got away as soon
as he could, and later in the afternoon, as he
went home with the editor of ' Culture,' the
two compared notes. The latter had had the
offer of ' The Cry of the Wayside Dove,' by the
same pen, which he had not thought pertinent,
and had declined in polite terms, but had happily
escaped the writer's gratitude.

Oh, John, who would have thought of our
seeing you here ? ' Mary had exclaimed when
she saw John Simonds by her side.

Why not, Polly ? ' he asked.

'Hush!' said Mary anxiously. 'Don't say
Polly now ; you really must not ! '

I beg your pardon,' said John sadly : ' do
forgive me. I know I ought not to be so intimate
now, but it is so difficult to break myself of the
old habit.'

Oh, John, it is not that at all ! Why
should you not be just the same with us as you
have always been ? It is only that we have
dropped a great many careless ways of talking.
A cousin of my mother's is staying with us
who is quite a distinguished authoress ; you
don't know what a quantity of beautiful poems
she has written ! They make a pile quite a
quarter of a yard high, and all good ; and she
has spoken to us about some of our words and
ways, and taken a great deal of pains with our
looks and our manners, and now we always say
Mary and Agnes, and never use those ugly
short names — do we, Aggy ? ' This slip of poor
backsliding Polly's broke the ice effectually,
and John, who had looked very grave and re-vol.

II. I

served when he first joined them, was soon
nearly as much at home with them as ever.

Have you given up calling your other
sister by her short name too ? ' he asked. He
could not altogether shake off reserve when
speaking of her.

Zeph, you mean ; no, we are to go on
giving her the same name we have always
done. Miss Everilda says, because there is
something original about it. She says that
names beginning with Z are so uncommon that
they are quite distinguished. Miss Everilda —
Miss Seaton, I mean — lives near Alnminster,
John ; have you heard of her ? '

He had just heard of her ; and then they
asked him how he liked. Alnminster. He liked
it, he said, but he did not like being so faraway
from every one. Then he said rather
shyly, ' Are you alone here ? I mean is your
sister with you ? '

No,' replied Mary, ' Zeph has been staying
at Berkhampstead Castle since the beginning of
JuDe.'

I might have guessed it,' said he, looking
very much downcast.

You need not think that she is there for
any reason of the kind you seem to be imagining,'
said Mary impetuously. * She is only
there because father and mother are. Mr.
Daylesford asked father to go and arrange all
the MSS. at the castle for him, and gave him a
very good salary for doing it ; I am sure you
will be glad to hear that. Zeph and mother
were asked to stay there with father as long as
they liked ; but you must not think that Mr.
Daylesford himself has been with them, for he
has not. He has only been at the castle for
two days, or perhaps three, ever since they
first went.'

Is that a fact ? '

Of course it is. He has been all the way
to the Icarian Islands to see his brother, and
since he came back he has stayed in London
he has not been with them in the country at
all. That is true, John, I assure you. We
ourselves saw him when he first came home ;

and besides, Zeph would have told us if lie had
been there.'

When did you last hear from her ? '

Three or four days ago, and she said they
were quite alone.'

John sighed, and then he looked at Mary
as if he would like to ask her something.

John,' said she, with a sudden desire to
try to make him look happier ; ' you look as if
you would like to ask me something, and there
is a great deal I should like to say to you.'

John glanced at the crowd. What man
ever does forget the presence of his fellow-creatures
; not even when a few words which it is
most important that he should hear could be
said quite safely? Polly looked to see what Miss
Everilda was doing. She was talking of the
wrongs of authors with a sister in the craft to
whom she had just been introduced by Mrs.
Kennedy, and with whom she would evidently
be content to stay for hours. Agnes was talking
to a good-looking young figure-painter
who was longing to ask her to sit for Gudrun.

They are all happy,' said Mary to John
Strands. ' Let us walk round the garden.
We can talk there, and I have something to
say to you.' They strolled to the shady path
under the elm trees, she wondering much at
her own audacity the Awhile. How had she
dared to say this to him, and what more was
she going to say when they reached the spot
where they would be comparatively alone ?
She had been distressed by the sight of his
evident unhappiness, and she could not but
remember the time when they were all young
together, and how, even then, he had loved
Zeph. She respected his constancy with all
the respect of a person who was not at all sure
that she herself could ever attain to any proficiency
in that virtue. He had been such a
dear amusing fellow in those old days, and so
upright and honourable, that if he said a thing
was wrong, she and her sisters felt at once that
it must not be done. Now he was manifestly
suffering great depression on Zeph's account,
and part of it Mary thought was caused by the

consciousness that Zeph had behaved in a way
that was unworthy of her. ' John,' she said
very earnestly, ' you must be surprised at my
asking you to come and talk to me. Promise
me, even if you are vexed with anything I may
say, to believe I spoke with a good motive.'

'I can promise that quite easily,' said he.
I know you are acting from the best of
motives — I can see that you are.'

Thank you,' replied Mary gently. ' You
make it easy for me to speak. What I want to
say is this : I think you are blaming my poor
sister very much in your own mind for her
conduct to you — I won't pretend that I do not
know what has happened, for I cannot help
knowing it — but if you think that she behaved
as she did because she preferred another and a
richer man, I honestly assure you you are
wrong.'

He looked at her, and there was something
in his eyes which showed a struggle to believe
her, but a strong feeling that she must be
mistaken.

Don't look as if you could not believe me,
John ; it is perfectly true. I ought not to tell
Zeph's secrets — indeed, I know none that I
have not discovered for myself — but I am sure,
absolutely sure, that if she loves any one, it is
you ! '

He shook his head gloomily, but she saw
that he walked more lightly, and she took it asa
sign that he was beginning to have a little
more belief.

But, Polly,' he urged, wholly oblivious of
her late remonstrance, ' if that be the case
why did she refuse me ? '

Zeph is odd in many ways,' answered
Polly. ' She is naturally much more refined
than any of us. She likes everything to look
pretty and go smoothly, and has endured so
many of what she calls the rubs of poverty, that
she will never, of her own free will, marry a
poor man. Excuse my seeming to call you a
poor man, John.'

'Oh, I am poor, there is no denying that ;
but I shall not always be poor, Polly. I mean

to work ; and even as I am, I almost think that
she and I would be better off than she is at
home.'

Yes, but at home she does not feel responsible
for what she has to bear — she dislikes
it, but she did not choose her lot, and if
she were to marry you, it would be choosing
a certain way of life with her eyes open. I
know she thinks that : I have heard her say
things from time to time, and have pieced her
opinions together.'

If those are her opinions she cannot love
me ! ' said John, as if all were definitely over.

I am perfectly certain she does, and that
she is very unhappy because she has refused
you.'

Impossible ! '

Not impossible at all ! I am convinced
that I am giving you a faithful idea of what
she feels.'

If she loved me she would be content
to run the risk of having to bear a few years
of comparative poverty with me. She would

wish to do SO, in fact, for she would hope
to make it easier to me. Do you mean to
say, Polly, that if you loved any man in
my position, you would shrink from marrying
him from the motives you assign to your
sister ? '

Polly blushed from the roots of her hair to
the tips of her fingers — John had never seen
such a sudden blush before. She struggled to
answer, and said, 'I would not, but Zeph
would.'

And yet you say that Zeph loves me.'
And yet I say that Zeph loves you,' repeated
Polly mechanically. She was feeling
shyer than she had ever felt in her life, and
terribly afraid that she was playing the part of
a traitor in revealing what she believed to bethe
true state of her sister's mind. Something
she could not account for had made her speak.
She knew what Zeph was suffering, and she
had only to look at John to see what Zeph's
decision had cost him. Why should these two
people go on being wretched if she could conquer

her dislike to speak to him, and by telling
him the honest truth bring them together ?

He was hard to persuade, principally because
he did so wish to be persuaded. ' It
cannot be true, Polly,' said he ; ' you are a
dear kind girl, but you are deceived. Zeph is
much more likely to be in love with Mr.
Daylesford than with me.'

Oh, but I happen to know that she is not,'
replied Polly stoutly.

He turned suddenly, and looked at her
with such eager hope kindling in his eyes, that
her heart ached at not having any further
comfort to give him.

That young gentleman is making an offer
of marriage,' said a passer by, the moment he
reached a safe distance.

Is the girl going to take him .? ' asked the
lady who was with him.

I don't know ; there are evidently rocks
ahead. I would trust a great deal to her
power of moulding circumstances. She is a
fine-looking creature — not a beauty, I don't

mean that — and not quite of the upper class
perhaps, but made of good stuff.'

Oh, but he is a thousand times too good
for her,' replied the lady ; ' he is really handsome
and gentlemanlike, and she is — at least, I
cannot help thinking she is — a little vulgar; she
looks very like a shrew on her good behaviour.'

Their secluded path was therefore not quite
secluded enough to prevent their encountering
a little criticism now and then, but they
dropped their voices, or were silent when anyone
approached ; and as for the criticism, they
were unaware of it.

You can solemnly affirm that it is your
belief that there is nothing between your sister
and Mr. Daylesford ? ' repeated John earnestly.
Dear Polly, do not be so unkind as to say
one word more than you can say with perfect
certainty.'

Polly paused in order to answer this with
greater conscientiousness. ' I sincerely think
no, I am perfectly certain — that there is no
affection on her side : I cannot answer for his

feelings. I have only seen him once or twice,
but I do not think that there is any sign of his
being in love with her, unless it is his troubling
himself to know us at all, and I think father's
being of such use to him in arranging his
MSS. would account for that. They went to
Berkhampstead in June — he went with them.
When he had been there for two days, or
perhaps three, he went away to the Icarian
Islands, but if he had not gone there he was
coming back to London that same day. When
he got to Paris he must have heard that his
brother was safe, but he went on and he paid
him a long visit ; he was away for at least a
month, and when he did come home he did not
go to Berkhampstead to see her, and he had not
had any letters from her, for he came to our
house to ask if father and the others were still
at the castle, and when we told him that they
were, he did not go to them, for Jack saw him
in Oxford Street. Now, John, does what I have
just told you convince you that there can be
nothing between them ? for it is my opinion it

ought. Besides, is it likely that a man in
Mr. Daylesford's position would condescend to
marry Zeph ? '

This was too much for John, he was in
arms at once. ' Condescend to marry Zeph — I
should think he, or any man, however high his
position was, might feel it an honour and a
privilege to win your sister's love ! You say
that he has not won it ; can you give me equally
good proof of that ? '

No, Zeph is reserved, and I am sorry to
say she and I often have quarrels — she would
never confide in me. She does not confide in
Agnes either ; it would be Jack if it were anyone
— Jack is the one she loves most, and he
says she loves you, and I am certain she does ;
and as for her caring for Mr. Daylesford, do
you think if she did that she would have said
what she did to me when I was at Berkhamp-
stead for the day ? '

What did she say ? Polly, do excuse me,
but it is life or death to me.'

I asked when he was coming back, and

she said she hoped not at all while they were
at the castle, and that she was very glad he
had gone to his brother, and hoped he would
stay a long time. Then I asked if she would
like to see you.'

What did she say to that ? '

She said nothing at all. We were walking
in the park, and she hurried away from the
path and stooped down to gather some flowers,
and I followed her, and when she got up again
I saw two great glassy tears standing in her
eyes, and knew that she had gone away to hide
them. I said, " Zeph dear, why don't you let
John come ? half a word would bring him to
you wherever he was if you would but say it,
or let some one else say it for you." She put
her hand on my arm and said, " Hush, Polly !
don't talk of that, you make me so unhappy."
So I said no more, but you must see that it is
you whom she loves.' John turned very pale
and leaned against a tree by the edge of the
path ; he dared not let himself believe it, and
yet belief was trying to take possession of his

mince Polly was silent ; she had nothing more
to say, but she looked at him with pitying
kindness.

What would you have me do ? ' said he
hoarsely.

My dear John ! ' said Polly, and there
was something in her voice which showed her
astonishment at his question. He looked up,
wishing only that she would direct his conduct
a little ; his head was reeling at the sudden
change of outlook.

Why, go to her of course — go at once !
I don't quite know how you have managed
things, but so far as I can judge you must have
said what you wanted to say to her at odd
moments or by letter. You have never had a
real talk with her — never ! See her ; say what
you want to say by word of mouth ! I am
absolutely certain that if you do she will not
be able to resist you, for her heart is on your
side.'

I will do it ! ' said he resolutely ; ' I will
go. God bless you, dear Polly, for the kindness

you have shown me to-day. Whatever
happens I shall never forget it — and it costs a
girl an effort to speak as you have done This
speech was an indication of one of the strongest
points of John's character. Filled as his mind
was with his own anxieties and newly born
hopes which had not strength to soar, he could
yet divert his mind from them and put himself
in her position. He took her hand and held it
in a warmly affectionate grasp, and the two
who had observed them before caught sight of
this action from afar, and said, ' She has accepted
him ! '

My dear Mary,' said Miss Everilda to that
young lady when she at last returned to her
chaperon's side, ' I have had such a delightful
conversation ! This lady, Miss Lampeter — let
me introduce my cousin to you, Miss Lampeter
knows much more about authorship than I
do, and she has told me all kinds of things
about getting poems and articles published that
I never knew. I now see quite clearly why
my poor poems have never been printed. It

all comes of my disregarding the most trifling
formality imaginable. I ought, when I sent
one to this or that editor, to have always enclosed
my visiting card as well. It does seem
such a pity that I did not know this before.
Some one should really have told me.'

Miss Everilda was so light-hearted, that if
the editor of ' Culture ' had asked her to tread
a measure with him she would infallibly have
done it. Failing that, she watched the young
people enjoying themselves, and she began a
poem in which gaslight and moonlight where
contrasted, and asked John Simonds to come
and see her when they were back in the north
again, and read some of her MS. poems. John
hung about, waiting for the chance of a little
more talk with Polly, but had to be content
with such as could be had in odd moments
between the dances. He was well content to
wait her pleasure, for by a few words she had
changed the aspect of the world to him.

VOL. 11.

CHAPTEE Xvii.

THE AGONY COLUMN.

And I had rather have one twinkling,

Child Waters, of thine ee,
Than I wolds have Cheshire and Lancashire loth.

To take them mine own to be. — Ballad of Child Waters.

Unthinking persons, Zeph Treherne among the
number, were apt to maintain that Dr. Simonds
was nothing more than a dry and most uninteresting
old gentleman, whose conversation was
so heavy that no dinner party could overcome
the weight of his presence. There was truth in
the assertion so far as concerned conversation
on topics which did not interest him, and
nothing did interest him heartily but matters
concerning his own profession, or in some way
allied with it. It was his religion, his poetry,
his art. He had been heard to say that there
was no sight in nature more beautiful than a

perfectly healthy, healing sore ; but if he had
an eye which admired wounds of this sort he
had a heart to feel for mental wounds likewise.
To the outside world he was a cold man — he
was a perfect slave to his patients. He became
so interested in them that if he had thought
the recovery of one of them was ever so slightly
retarded by the non-fulfilment of some wish, he
would have gone miles to remove the difficulty
if it were in his power to do so. He considered
that he was under a solemn obligation to better
the condition of all who entered the wards over
which he presided, and beginning his ministrations
in that spirit, he often ended in being all
but a father to his patients, whose sorrows became
his own. Dr. Simonds was physician to
St. Elizabeth's Hospital, and for some time his
thoughts had been much occupied with a patient
who, some few weeks ago, had been brought
into one of the private wards. She was a girl,
Hester Langdale by name, and young. When
she first came in she had been suffering from a
brain attack presenting some features which

were unfamiliar to him. She had evidently
been placed in circumstances which had caused
her acute mental pain, most probably the desertion
of her lover ; but the result had been
that she was now the victim of a strange freak
of memory. There was nothing that had ever
been learnt, or read, or seen by her that did
not reproduce itself now. Whether it was a
long poem, or a psalm of David's, or a prayer,
she could repeat it with perfect accuracy, word
by word, and the lines followed each other
with as much ease as if she had been winding
off silk from a perfectly unentangled ball. Her
father had not been able to buy books for her,
and had therefore, even when she was still a
young child, made her learn by heart every
poem or fragment of poem that he himself admired,
and these were torturing her now. Her
mind was strangely active in furnishing her with
opportunities of exercising this newly developed
power. Hardly had she completed the task of
going through one poem which had been stored
away for years in the limbo of long-forgotten

things than another line from another equally
forgotten poem darted into her thoughts and
she was stimulated to try to recollect the next,
and then the whole poem gradually unrolled
itself before her mental vision, and she was able
to repeat it to the very end. Then came the
wish to know the beginning also, and to repeat
it up to the very point at which memory had
supplied the line which had started her off.
She always seemed to feel a certain difficulty in
remembering the first line, but no sooner did
she do this — for she never failed to succeed in
her attempts in a few minutes — than she was as
familiar with it as she had been with the rest ;
and it was the same with conversations and
scenes which had taken place almost in her
babyhood ; and thus she became aware of many
a circumstance of which she had hitherto had
no knowledge. The consequence of this most
unnatural state had been that Hester was worn
to a shadow. She hardly ever slept or rested,
for her brain would not consent to let her have
any repose. There was a terrible amount of

grief and despair lurking behind all this triumphant
recollection of bygone days and things,
for she always seemed to triumph a little when
she succeeded in repeating something she had
learnt to please her father, who had died so
long ago that his image was fading from her
mind. Now his features were distinctly seen
by her and his words to herself distinctly remembered,
and that not with pain, but with a
certain amount of pleasure. The pain came
when she was going through some poem which
Daylesford and she had enjoyed together. Then
she burst into agonies of tears ; and these attacks
and her sleeplessness were what Dr.
Simonds at first found it so hard to struggle
with. He had done so with success; the
over-excitement of brain which reproduced so
many apparently extinct impressions had been
relieved ; but, strange to say, the recollections
she had thus regained remained with her in all
their freshness, but she was so weak that Dr.
Simonds was often alarmed. Every day since
she had first come to the hospital that she was

able to speak at all, she had repeatedly asked
for the ' Times ' newspaper, and at first it had
been given her in compliance with her most
piteous entreaties. She had never looked
beyond the first page, and had wept so after
seeing it that her doctor had forbidden it to be
brought to her any more. For some time she
had said less about it ; in fact, the period during
which she had any reason to expect to see
Daylesford's advertisement was over, and she
knew it. Still she sometimes asked for the
paper ; but discipline was strict at St. Elizabeth's,
and she was told that Dr. Simonds had
forbidden it as seeing it only made her worse.
Dr. Simonds is mistaken, he does not understand,'
said Hester wearily.

He ought to know. Miss — he is a doctor,'
said the nurse, shocked at such language.

I shall ask him this morning,' said Hester,
on the morning of the very day when the Tree
went with Miss Everilda to the Kennedyss'
garden party. ' I am better, it won't dome
any harm to-day,' she pleaded, when he had

come and she was preferring her request. He
looked at her pale face: how large her eyes
looked now that she was so thin ! she had no
idea how ill she still was.

Feel my pulse,' said she ; ' look at me,
and you will see for yourself how much better
I am.' He saw that she was trying to seem
stronger than she was for the sake of carrying
her point, while even the energy with which
she had said these few words had been too
great a tax on her strength. She saw a denial
framing itself on his lips, and turned her face
away and began to weep quietly. ' Send for a
copy of the " Times," nurse,' said he. ' There,
you shall have your way for once. Miss Langdale.
I wish you would tell me why you want
it,' he added, when the woman had left them.
I am an old man, you need not mind confiding
in me ; I might be of service to you, my
poor dear child.'

'Yes, you are kind,' murmured Hester,
^ very kind. It was you who made them put
my hair where I can see that it is safe.' They

both glanced at a shining roll of hair which
was tied by a ribbon to a nail in the wall by
the side of Hester's little white bed. During
the worst part of her illness he had ordered
her hair to be cut off, and she, who had then
been so weak and ill as to be careless about
preserving her habit of reticence, had said, 'I
must have that hair kept. If Godfrey ever
sends for me to go back to him, he will be
vexed with me for letting my hair be cut off! '

Who is Godfrey, and where is he ? ' the
doctor had then asked, but she had shaken her
head in tearful silence.

You are getting a little better,' said he.
Do you feel the improvement yourself ? '

I don't know,' she replied gloomily ; 'I
am not sure that I want to be better. Oh, that
is so ungrateful ! ' she exclaimed, for she remembered
his constant kindness. ' Yes, I feel
better — much better.'

Your " Times " will be here in a minute,'
said he. ' Promise me, if you do not find
what you want in it, not to make yourself ill

again with crying. That is what makes me so
afraid of letting you have it. Do try to bear

up;

You do not know what I have to bear up
against,' she answered piteously, "- and it came
on me so suddenly too ! I hope I shall bear it
better some day, and I will try to make that
day come as soon as possible to please you.'

The nurse now came with the ' Times.'
Hester at once turned to the second column of
the first page, but no sooner did she look at it
than her eyes fell on the four words for the
sight of which she had hungered so long.
Hester, you are wrong,' in large letters. She
could scarcely believe her senses. It seemed so
impossible that those words could really be
there. Could it be true, and were her days of
misery at an end? Then a bright but most
delicate flush overspread her wan cheeks, and
she looked into the doctor's face, her eyes
blinded with happy tears. ' Look ! ' said she,
and pointed to the words.

He saw them in a moment. ' There ! ' said

he triumphantly ; ' didn't I always tell you you
were wrong ? '

You did,' she answered gently, ' but you
did not know what a terrible number of reasons
I had for thinking myself right. I was so
wretched when first it happened that I thought
I must have drowned myself. I don't know
how I escaped that. I don't know how long it
is since it happened, for I have been so ill.
He went away. He was to come back in four
days and to write to me during the time, and
he never wrote and never came, and from that
day to this I have never heard one word from
him.'

But,' said the doctor anxiously, ' how can
you be quite certain that this announcement is
intended for you ? '

'Because when I left his house — I felt I
ought to leave it — I wrote a line to say that I
was going, but that supposing there had been
some unfortunate mistake about his letters and
he had written, and did not want me to leave
him, he was to put a message to me consisting

of these four words in the " Times ; " and oh,
doctor, perhaps they have been in every day
for a long time. You have never allowed me
to see a paper. I don't want to say anything
unkind to you, but how could you refuse me
that ? I might have been happy all the time.'

I did it for the best,' said he. ' I was only
thinking of your health.'

I know you were,' said she warmly ; ' but
now I must go. I must go at once.'

Impossible ! You are not able. It is as
much as your life is worth to attempt it.'

I must ; I will rest when I am there.'

But how far is it .^ ' asked Dr. Simonds, for
in spite of himself he wavered for one moment.

You must not ask that ; but it won't hurt
me — it's not far.'

'I cannot give my consent,' said he, recovering
his firmness. ' The risk is much too
great ; and you must compose yourself and not
talk any more. I am afraid you will suffer for
this ; I shall have to administer a sedative.'

How can I compose myself when I have

seen that announcement ? How can I stay here
when I might be with him ? Doctor, you are
kind and good, and you have saved my life I
know ; but now that I am so much better, one
word from him will do more for me than all
the medicine and care in the world.'

Listen,' said he authoritatively. ' It is
absolutely impossible for you to leave this place
for some days, perhaps not for a week.'

A week,' she began ; but he interrupted
her.

Let me finish what I was saying. And
you must be absolutely quiet.'

Quiet ! You forget what is in that paper.
I must answer it. I must see him. You must
let me so ! '

In a day or two,' he said firmly.

In an hour ! Think how many hours of
being together have already been lost ! You
forget that he is unhappy too. I should be unworthy
of his affection if I let him suffer one
half-hour's unhappiness that I can spare him.'

The doctor looked embarrassed. He was a

quiet, God-fearing man, who liked people to be
bound by the ordinary rules of Christian
morality. He could see that she wore no wedding
ring ; every word she said proved that
she was no wife ; he shrank back from his own
desire to offer to do something to help her.
How could he be the go-between in an affair
of that kind ? ' My dear child said he, ' I pity
you from the bottom of my heart; but ought
you to go back to him ? Perhaps God has
parted you from him for your own true good.'

If God did that,' said Hester humbly, ' He
will guide the rest until He shows His will.
Let me do what I think best.'

Well, so far as to-day is concerned, at the
very most I can only allow you to write to him.
Write and say where you are, and ask him to
come perhaps, and I will send your note by my
coachman. He can drive there, wherever it is,
as you say it is so near, and still be back here
before I 'am ready to go. I have other patients
to see.'

The nurse's eyes seemed to say, 'Indeed

you have, sir ; ' but she knew his ways.
Hester's beamed with happiness ; that did seem
such a quick method of communicating with
Daylesford ; but when a pen was put in her
hand she found out how weak she was, and at
first it seemed as if she would not be able to
form a legible word. They had given her a
sheet of note-paper with the hospital address
printed on it, so all that she really needed to
write was ' Godfrey, I am here ; come,' and
sign her name. That is what she did write,
but in such trembling characters that she
feared it would be impossible for him to read
it.

Doctor,' said she anxiously, ' I shall have
to ask you to be so kind as address this for me.
I dare not trust my own writing. You will
keep my secret ? '

He bowed, and silently took the pen and
wrote, The Hon. Godfrey Daylesford, 11 Ambassadors'
Gate. Again he felt that there was
some story connected with that name ; he was
sure he had heard it before, but could not say

when or where. He was a very absent and
oblivious man ; but Hester did not know it, or
she would not have lain back on her pillow
now with such a happy smile on her lips. He
bade her farewell for the day, intending at once
to send off his man with her note ; but in the
corridor he was waylaid by the house surgeon,
who had been wishing for some time that he
would deal more expeditiously with that case in
Private Ward Number 4. A poor man, in
whom Dr. Simonds had quite as much interest
as in Hester Langdale when once he was insight
of his evident suffering, was anxiously
waiting for his visit, and an important change
had taken place in his symptoms ; so, without
having the least idea what he was doing, the
doctor put the note in his pocket and hurried
to the patient whom he had neglected too long.
Then he had to see another and yet another.
He did not remember what he had left undone
until more than an hour afterwards, when he
was descending the hospital steps and saw his
own coachman. Then he bethought himself of

the errand which he had promised to entrust to
this man.

'I have lost more than an hour,' he
thought ; ' and that unhappy girl will belying
there counting every second ! Eleven
Ambassadors' Gate,' said he, getting into his
carriage as quickly as he could. He would
deliver the letter with his own hands at Mr.
Daylesford's door, and thus do his best to atone
for his culpable forgetful ness. He soon reached
his destination, and jumped out with professional
promptitude. As soon as the footman
saw him he bowed and said, ' Please to walk in,
sir ; you are expected.'

What was this ? Had Hester after his departure
written another letter to say that he
would call .^ But she could not have done so,
for his going there was a pure accident, and
she had no reason to expect him to do it. The
doctor was bewildered, hopelessly bewildered
and undecided, and stood at the door not
knowing what to do.

Please to walk in, sir ; you are expected,'

VOL. II. L

ait-ain said the footman, and there was so much
decision, not to say compulsion in his manner,
that Dr. Simonds made a few steps forwards
and immediately found the house door shut
behind him. Perhaps it would not be amiss if
he did see this Mr. Daylesford, as he could not
only put the note into his own hands, but give
him an urgent warning not to let his patient talk
much or think of moving until she was actually
convalescent. This idea gradually shaped itself,
but he was not quite sure whether it would not
be taking too great a liberty if he were to acton
it. He meditated on this point as, he followed
the footman through the hall and corridor
to the library. ' What a handsome house ! '
thought he. ' Mr. Daylesford is rich, that's
very certain. It is stupid of me to forget what
I have heard about him. I don't think I have
ever met him, but I shall know that directly I
see his face.'

Dr. Simonds was not destined to see his
face that day ; the door opened and Mrs. Mason
bustled in, looking very important and full of

business. 'We have been expecting you, sir,'
said she. A feeling of expectation seemed to
have established itself in the mind of every one
in the house. ' Mr. Daylesford said you would
call,' she added.

I am sure I don't know how Mr. Dales
could expect me to ' began Dr. Simmonds

in ponderous amazement.

No, nor I either,' interrupted Mrs. Mason.
If he wants things to go right, he really ought
to come himself and get the young lady to
come, and then things could be arranged as
they ought to be.'

Oh, I should oppose that ! I could not
think of allowing her to come here ' interposed
Dr. Simonds.

But I should have thought you would
have been very glad to have her here, and
have some of the responsibility taken off you,
sir.'

1 am accustomed to responsibility,' replied
Dr. Simonds in his best professional manner,
and with an admirably haughty bow.

L 2

Well, you must be,' said Mrs. Mason, who
was for a minute or two considerably impressed
by his lofty manner, but the remembrance of
certain bills enabled her to recover herself
quickly, and she added, ' And then, you see, the
high prices you charge go to cover that.'

I am not aware that my prices are higher
than is usual in the profession — they are not so
high as those of many practitioners.'

Perhaps not,' said Mrs. Mason doubtfully ;
but had we not better go over the house and
settle what is to be done for the young lady's
reception? I shall have left Mr. Daylesford's
service before she comes, but I should like todo
all I can for him.'

But so little is needed — no great preparations
for her reception are wanted ; I will tell
you anything I can think of. I should like to
see Mr. Daylesford ; I must say a word or two
to him about her if you will kindly let him
know I am here.'

He is not here, sir ; I thought I had
explained that,' replied the disturbed housekeeper.

'Do let us just take a look round for
you to form an opinion of what will be wanted ,
You say it will be very little. That's what Mr.
Daylesford himself thinks ; he says the house
was put in thorough order a short while since
when he took it, and all that he now wishes is
that you should say what is absolutely necessary.
He is intending to go abroad for three
or four months very soon after his marriage,
and he and his bride will only be here for a
fortnight or so before they set olBT, even if they
come at all.'

Dr. Simonds had heard nothing of this
speech but the bit about Mr. Daylesford's marriage
; his joy on hearing this was so great that
he had thought of nothing else. It was a
thousand times better than he had dared to
hope. ' I am heartily glad he intends to marry
her,' he said.

Mrs. Mason was beginning to be impatient.
She liked to be treated as if she were a person
of some importance, and she did not care to
waste so much time on an old gentleman whose

principal occupation seemed to be wool-gathering.
' Are sou intending to examine into the
state of the house or not, if you please, sir ? '
said she.

I presume that you mean from a sanitary
point of view ? '

Yes, that is one thing that has to be seen
to, but then there's a suite of rooms upstairs
that has to be re-decorated.'

I don't see what I have to do with decoration,'
observed Dr. Simonds, who was more and
more at a loss to understand her. ' Madam, it
has struck me ever since I came in that we
were more or less at cross purposes, and excuse
me, my time is valuable.'

That's what I have been thinking, sir. Before
more time is wasted, may I ask if you are
Mr. Waddilove, the upholsterer and decorator ?
My master told me that I was to expect him
this afternoon, about doing up the suite of rooms
upstairs, and to see what more was needful.'

Doing up a suite of rooms — decorations !
I am a doctor, madam, and I came here about

an announcement, which as I am informed was
put in the " Times " newspaper by Mr. Dales
I must know where he is to be found —
I must be able to take back some message to
the lady to whom it was addressed ! I have a
note for him ; how am I to send it ? '

I beg your pardon, sir. Mr. Daylesford
is at present at the family's country seat. A
letter will be sure to find him if you direct it
to him at the castle. Berkhampstead Castle,
sir.'

Dr. Simonds started and turned a shade or
two paler. Now he knew who Mr. Daylesford
was. He had heard his name more than once,
some months ago, and never without much
bitter comment. That was when Mrs. Simonds
was most enraged against Zeph. Latterly all
mention of her had been avoided as stirring up
thoughts full of nothing but sorrow and pain,
and in the whirl of professional life Daylesford's
name had slipped out of the keeping of the
doctor's memory. All that he had retained was
that there was some man of fashion who had,

as bis wife maintained, turned Zeph's head by
his unmeaning attentions. But the name of
Berkhampstead brought everything back to his
mind, and brought a dread of new sorrow as
well. Up to the moment when the housekeeper
uttered that name the doctor had not felt the
smallest shade of doubt that Daylesford's undivided
love was Hester's. How could he have
had any anxiety on that point? How could
any honest man have any ? Had not the doctor
seen an announcement in that day's ' Times,' put
in by Daylesford himself, which according to
agreement with Hester was not to appear unless
he still loved and wished to be reunited to her?
How could a man who had let that advertisement
be printed, be about to marry any one but
the woman to whom it was addressed ? Nor
the doctor's heart was filled with an acute
sense of danger and alarm. Zeph Tr eh erne was,
as he believed, at Berkhampstead Castle ; Dales
was there also. A marriage between these
two would break the hearts of two far nobler
creatures than themselves, and judging by the

course of events in this wicked world, that
seemed precisely the reason why such a marriage
should take place.

Shall I write down Mr. Daylesford's address
for you, sir? ' inquired Mrs. Mason, for he
seemed quite indifferent to her presence, and
was simply standing in a state of bewildered
disquietude.

She recalled him to his senses, and he said,
Oh no, there is no fear of my forgetting it ; '
and then, fumbling with his hat, and with a
faint hope that she might contradict him, but
more than all with a conviction that it was his
bounden duty to obtain certainty, he added,
Berkhampstead Castle, you said. Is not that
where Mr. and Mrs. Treherne and some of their
family have been staying ? '

They are staying there now, sir. It is the
oldest Miss Treherne, you know, whom Mr.
Daylesford is going to marry. It is quite a
recent engagement. We only heard of it this
morning.'

But is it really an engagement ? Do you

know for a fact that he is going to marry her,
or are you merely supposing he intends it
because he has been paying her some attention
? '

Well, I do think it begins to look uncommonly
like a marriage when my master writes
himself to tell me that he is going to be married,
and that Mr. Waddilove will call to make
some arrangements for the reception of his
bride. None of us know the lady, I think I
understood you to say you did ? ' and she fixed
a piercingly interrogative eye on the doctor.

What is your Mr. Daylesford's Christian
name, madam ? ' asked the doctor, ignoring her
curiosity entirely, for a sudden thought had
come into his mind which had set his heart
beating with renewed hope ; there must be two
brothers.

His name is Godfrey ; Mr. Godfrey Dales
; and he might be Lord Berkhampstead if
he would but consent to assume the title ; and
the young lady is said to be of good family too,
and one of the most '

Don't speak of her I ' exclaimed the doctor
with loathing. ' Good morning, madam,' and
he began to hurry out of the room.

'You think you can manage to recollect
the address I gave you ? ' inquired Mrs. Mason,
for to her mind he did not seem competent to
put his own hat on his head. ' You won't forget
Berkhampstead Castle ? '

Not till my dying day ! ' said he between
his teeth, and thus left the house. But what
was he to do? His spirit quailed when he
thought of what lay before him. He would
have to break this terrible news to the poor
girl whom he had left lying at the hospital,
supremely happy because the man she loved
was still true to her, and having taken from
her the only thing in the world for which she
cared to live, he would have to go home and
blight the existence of his best beloved son.

CHAPTEE XIX.

THIS WAS SUCH Plan Speaking.

Pray, pray, pray — no help but prayer,
A breath that fleets beyond this iron world.
And touches Him that made it. — Tennyson.

Let no one accuse Dr. Simonds of cowardice
because he went home instead of going back to
the hospital to tell the worst to Hester. He
told himself that he was not quite sure that the
housekeeper's news was true, and that even if
it were, his patient should bear it better if
fortified by a night's rest after the excitement
of the morning. That was the rock on which
he took his stand, but let him look where he
would, he saw no other rocks to stand on. He
went to his own room and wrote a hasty note
to Hester to tell her that Mr. Daylesford was
out of town, but that he would forward her

note to him. Then he wrote thus to Mr.
Daylesford : — ' I am physician to St. Elizabeth's
Hospital, and Miss Hester Langdale is at
present a patient in one of the private wards
under my care. She has asked me to convey
the enclosed letter or note to you, in answer, I
believe, to an advertisement of yours in the
Times." I do so, but. for her sake and without
her knowledge, I must add a line to say that,
as her health is in a very critical state, I must
entreat you to use the greatest circumspection
in your dealings with her ; any abrupt or
painful disclosure or communication might be
highly injurious, if not fatal, in her present
condition.'

I ought not to have written this,' thought
the doctor, ' but I'll take the breach of etiquette
on my own conscience.' He wondered what
Daylesford would do. The housekeeper had
said that his engagement was quite a recent
affair ; suppose it had been entered into under
the impression that Hester was dead, or lost forever.
He would not have advertised in the

Times' if he had not wished to find her ; perhaps
he had intended to make her his wife. When
the note went to Berkhampstead, he would
know that she was found. He would then be
obliged to make his choice between the two
women. If his choice fell on Hester, the
renewal of love would probably end in a marriage,
and if it did not fall on Hester, the
doctor feared that he himself had perhaps been
the cause of her unhappiness. He had refused
her the sight of the ' Times.' He had done so
because it always made her ill to see it. But
would it have made her ill if she had found in
it what she wanted ? Had Daylesford's message
to her been in the paper during the time when
he had kept it out of her hands ? and if so, was
he, the doctor, answerable for the loss of her
happiness? He could not forget that the
housekeeper had said that the engagement was
an affair of the last two or three days. If
Hester had seen the advertisement sooner this
fatal engagement might never have taken place,
and Daylesford might have married her. He

sent for the back numbers of the ' Times ; ' his
wife kept such things, so there was no difficulty
in finding them. He picked out all the supplements
for the last three weeks, growing more
and more despondent as he did so, for that
announcement was in large print, and always
caught his eye as readily as the name of the
paper. Before long he was sitting, looking perfectly
woebegone, with twelve supplements on
his knee, every one of which contained the
words, ' Hester, you are wrong ! ' They had
first appeared on the 17th, and they had been
in every paper since, ending with that very day,
July 30th. And not one of these but the last
had Hester been allowed to see ! He was
wretched.

After some time had passed, Mrs. Simonds
looked in, and seeing him absorbed in thought
a state which she always described as sitting
still and doing nothing — exclaimed, ' Well, my
dear, you seem to be pretty well tired out.'

Yes, dear, I am tired ; I have had an
exhausting day.' The doctor had no intention

of increasing this many difficulties by telling
her about Zeph, but he did want a little
sympathy.

I am sorry you are so tired, Ealph, but
you do take your work far too much to heart.
When you come home you ought to dismiss your
patients from your mind — other doctors do.
What's the use of fretting yourself to fiddle-strings
about other people's troubles ? and I am
sure, at the rate you are paid for your hospital
work, you can hardly be expected to give
much thought to the cases when once you have
turned your back on the building.'

He smiled, but very drearily, and said, ' I
shall be all right presently. Where is John ? '

At a garden party at St. John's Wood.'

Dr. Simonds sighed.

Now why should you sigh because John is
at a garden party at St. John's Wood ? It is
not as if you had to go.' But even that immunity
brought the doctor no peace.

At dinner he tried to eat and speak, but in
the evening he relapsed into silence again.

My love observed Mrs. Simonds, ' no
one can say that you are cheerful company.'

I am afraid not,' he answered ruefully ;
but I have such a difficult matter to think
about.'

Let me help you,' she pleaded.

She was so wonderfully sympathetic that he
forgot how rigidly severe her judgment was
on certain points, and said, ' It's about a poor
girl in the hospital who is just recovering from
a brain attack, and who has been very cruelly
treated by her lover.'

Mrs. Simonds was up in arms in a moment,
and exclaimed, ' Dr. Simonds, you surprise
me. Why should you trouble yourself about
such a person ? A girl in the hospital ! What
kind of a girl ? '

A very interesting one, but she has been
most unfortunate. Her story is so sad.'

Is she a respectable person .^ '

The doctor was sorely put to it — the question
was so direct,
von. II. M

No, not what you would call so, but she

ism

dear, I hope your ideas on these points
are not getting confused with seeing so many
queer people.'

Oh no, not that ; but if you did but know
how distressing it is '

Oh, I know the kind of people you go and
get unhappy about ! Whenever you see any
who are utterly good-for-nothing and useless—
so bad that no one else would look at them
you go and pity them all the more because
you know no one else does, and then you worry
your life out in trying to do some very difficult
thing which will set them on their feet again.'

My dear, I don't deserve such a high
character ; I should be proud indeed if I could
set on his feet one poor creature whom everyone
else had left lying as a desperate case.'

Well, you may feel like that if you choose,
but I call it feeling very like a fool ! Any one
knows people of that kind cannot really be seton
their legs-they stand up while you hold

them, or while it amuses them to let you think
you can hold them, and then they just drop
down again, and laugh at you.'

Never mind that, Eliza, if you know that
you have done your best.'

Oh, but the more I have done, the more
angry I am when it comes to nothing. It is
far better to give them no chance of laughing
at you.'

And never try to do a good action,'

replied the doctor languidly ; he was again
thinking — there were so many things to think
about ; and now, having satisfied himself that
he had done all in his power to lighten Hester's
sufferings, he felt at liberty to torment himself
with another aspect of the same affair, and one
which touched him much more closely. How
would his son bear the intelligence ?

John came in very soon after the doctor
had decided that there was no reason why he
too should not be allowed to have one more
night's rest unconscious of new sorrow. John
looked twice as happy as when he went out,

M 2

and Mrs. Simonds saw it, and raised her eyes
from her knitting with a genuine touch of kindness
in them. ' How bright you look ! ' said
she. ' Who was at the Kennedyss ? Any one
you knew ? '

Yes, the Trehernes were there,' he replied
joyously.

Not Zeph, surely ? ' asked the doctor
eagerly.

JSTo, not Zeph, but the two others. They
have grown into such fine handsome girls ! '

Mrs. Simonds muttered something very disparaging,
and her rugged brow clouded over ;
then she said, ' Surely we have had enough,
and more than enough, of these people ! Their
presence cannot have added much to your
pleasure, John.'

It did — I was very glad to see them
again.'

Oh, I think I will say good night,' she
observed severely. 'I don't care to sit up to
hear the praises of people I detest ;• and I like
people, to be consistent, and you are not. One

of them has done all she could to make us
miserable, and now these two younger ones
seem to want to try to do the same. Leave
them alone, John ; they are as heartless as their
sister, I make no doubt.'

During this speech both John and his father
had been endeavouring to soothe her. ' Jjct us
talk of something else, dear,' the doctor had
said.

Don't go away, mother,' exclaimed John ;
but she would listen to no entreaties, and went.
She had not been gone a minute, however,
before she opened the door again for one last
attack on the Trehernes.

They are a thoroughly worthless family, I
tell you, and, for my part, I greatly wonder
how you can condescend to speak to any of
them — so now you have my opinion ! ' Having
said this, she retreated without giving him time
for an answer, and then John told his father
all Polly had said to him, and that he was
going to see Zeph next day. The doctor was
rather silent, but, on the whole, hopeful, for if

Zeph had been engaged, surely Polly would
have known it. Next morning the doctor
meant to tell his son what he had heard at
Ambassadors' Gate — that night he should sleep
unvexed by doubt. As for the doctor himself,
he was too much perplexed to sleep, and yet he
had to pretend to be fast bound in its thrall,
for if he moved or gave his wife the least
opening to suspect that he was awake, she
broke the welcome silence by some such speech
as this : —

'Ealph, listen to me — you must listen tome.
You may be lax about things — you always
are ! You may be willing to let those odious
Trehernes play fast and loose with you and
your family, but I give you warning — a solemn
warning that I will never be civil to any one of
them — none of them shall ever set foot in this
house ! ' She rang changes on this the whole
night long, the doctor always pretending to be
too much under the dominion of sleep to take
in the meaning of her words, and scarcely
answering a syllable. But this night was so

disturbed that he overslept himself, and the
first thing he was conscious of in the morning
was his wife standing by his bedside, saying,
It is too indecent ! Such barefaced pursuit of
a young man is positively disgraceful ! '

What is the matter, my sweet EHza ? ' he
asked, not in irony, but from imperfect comprehension
of what was arousing him to play a
part once more in the troublesome world from
which he had for some hours escaped.

That forward creature, Polly Treherne,
has actually sent that spoilt little brother of
hers here — here to this house, I tell you, Ealph
with a note to John ! She cannot even wait
till he has got his breakfast before she tries to
get hold of him again ! Now, Ealph, John maybe
what is called grown up, but I hope he is
not too much grown up to obey a kind father,
and I insist on your ordering him to keep away
from those scheming girls ! '

The doctor was wide awake in a moment ;
he greatly feared he knew why this note had
been sent. ' Let me get up and dress myself,'

said he ; ' I will go to John.' When he did go,
John silently put into his hand Polly's note,
which had evidently been written under the
influence of strong feeling, and he read, ' Don't
go to Berkhampstead to-day, John — don't go
any day, for I have had a letter from my sister
this morning. All I told you yesterday was
wrong, though, God knows, I thought I was
telling you the truth : she is engaged to marry
Mr. Daylesford. I shall never forgive myself
for causing you so much pain'— (here it was
easy to see that Polly had let one or two heavy
tears fall on her paper) — 'never. And I am
ashamed of her — she ought not to have done
it. Dear John, try to bear it bravely and
forgive me.'

Dr. Simonds gazed blankly at his son, he
was shocked at the anguish in his face. Polly's
letter had been a fearful blow to him after so
many hours of hope.

My dear boy,' said the doctor ; but he
himself looked as ill as his son.

I shall bear it better in a short time,' said

John as cheerfully as he could. ' It has come
on me rather unexpectedly, that's all. Don't
tell my mother just yet.*

There could be no doubt now, and father
and son went downstairs to face the world,
which just then seemed inclined to treat them
very hardly.

Mrs. Simon ds was sitting at the breakfast-table
looking full of just wrath, and pouring
warm water in and out of the tea-cups
with an air of consciousness that she was performing
a service for two people who were
miserably unworthy of any such kindness.
Her face expressed a whole Commination
Service.

I suppose we had better begin,' said she
coldly, looking from her anxious and unhappy
husband to her equally unhappy son.

There was no satisfaction to be obtained
from the face of either. If Dr. Simonds had
carried his point and made John promise to
have nothing more to do with the Trehernes;
especially with this forward, giddy Polly, surely

he would have seemed pleased. If, on the contrary,
John had held his own, and maintained
his right to keep on good terms with the friends
of his youth, surely there would be some sign
of firmness about him, if not-of elation; but
one seemed as depressed as the other. Breakfast
was a silent and most uncomfortable
meal. The two men rose up from it with a
visible air of relief, and prepared to leave the
room.

Where are you going, Ealph ? ' inquired
Mrs. Simonds imperatively.

To the hospital.'

My dear, it's not your day ! '

That's nothing ! I shall have to go,' said
the doctor resolutely.

There are three or four people waiting for
you downstairs — your own patients, you know
you will surely see them ? '

Mrs. Simonds always affected to consider
the hospital work as entirely outside of her
husband's practice.

Why was I not told before F I must go to

the hospital, of course, but it will do if I go
rather later ; ' and as he looked glad of the
respite, she was somewhat mollified.

Here is a telegram for you,' said she, for
the servant appeared with one. ' Now you will
probably find some other work cut out for you
than running to the hospital when you are not
expected ! '

My dear Eliza,' he began ; but he stopped,
for who can check the torrent of a wife's eloquence
?

He opened the telegram as he went downstairs,
and when he saw who had sent it he was
glad he had waited till then. It was from Godfrey
Daylesford, Berkhampstead, and merely
contained these words : ' Thank you for your
caution. My lawyer will be with you at half-past
twelve, to speak on the subject of your
letter.'

Dr. Simonds went to his room and his
patients, and Mrs. Simonds having, as she
thought, her son at her mercy, said to him,
Your father is going to waste his time at the

hospital, and you, John, I suppose, are in a
hurry to be off to the Trehernes ? '

Yes, mother, I am. I want to see Polly
about something.'

Mrs. Simonds had not expected this answer.
She had only been indulging in irony. When
she heard it, she flung up her arms in horror at
both father and son. Men were mad, unreasoning
creatures at the very best, but surely she
had become possessed of two of the worst specimens
of their kind.

At two o'clock the doctor was on his way
to the hospital. He had seen Mr. Daylesford's
lawyer, who, as chance would have it, had
been at Berkhampstead on business when the
doctor's note enclosing Hester's had arrived.
Daylesford had at once despatched him to
London to see Dr. Simonds and explain his
position. It was not a position to be proud of,
and there was very little that the lawyer could
say. Daylesford wished Hester to be informed
that he had been abroad for a month or more,
that he had written to her while away, that he

had advertised for her, as requested in her last
letter, as soon as he had received it, which he
had not done till his return to England ; and
besides that, he had made every possible inquiry
; but all being in vain, he had given up
any hope of ever finding her, and had finally
made an offer of marriage to a young lady to
whom he had been for some time attached, but
whose society he had avoided from a feeling of
loyalty to Hester. Had he been able to find
Hester he would, no doubt, have acted differently
; but as it was, his heart and his honour
were alike pledged to another. Mr. Blackmore
had wound up by saying that all that now remained
for his client to do was to express his
profound sorrow at having caused Miss Langdale
any unhappiness, and his determination to
settle an income of five hundred a year on her.
The doctor had affirmed that he was quite certain
she would not accept this. The lawyer
had' smiled faintly, and said he should be very
much surprised if she did not. The doctor had
said that many things that appeared surprising

did nevertheless happen ; for instance, some
people might think it surprising that Mr. Dales
who was actually engaged to Miss Tree
should put an announcement in the newspaper
to inform Miss Langdale that his affection
for her was unchanged, and yet that had actually
happened.

Oh, no, no ! ' exclaimed the lawyer, roused
from his professional calmness by this attack.
Let me explain that. Mr. Daylesford only
proposed to Miss Treherne on the 28th ; gentlemen
do not usually attend to business at such
times, but he wrote at once to stop that announcement
appearing any more ; but I suppose
such things get set up in type earlier than we
outsiders imagine — his letter was not in time
to prevent it.'

Mr. Daylesford seems to have been remarkably
business-like!' observed the doctor
bitterly. ' If he only became engaged to Miss
Treherne on the 28th, he certainly lost no time
in writing for an upholsterer and decorator todo
his house up ! '

That also might be explained in a way not
altogether to Mr. Daylesford's discredit,' said
Mr. Blackmore, ' There was a suite of rooms
in his house especially devoted to Miss Langdale's
use, and the sight of them was painful to
him.'

I wonder what his feelings would be if he
saw the poor girl herself ? ' said the doctor.

'But, Dr. Simonds, you must allow that
my client i^ behaving as well as he can under
the circumstances.'

So much depends on the value people
attach to money,' replied the doctor bitterly ;
'I don't think Miss Langdale will care to
receive any of his.'

At all events you will let her know what
Mr. Daylesford proposes,' said Mr. Blackmore.

Some day I will, not yet. He may already
be able to look on things from that point of
view-^I am certain that she is not *-! doubt if
she ever will be. Good morning, sir. People
pity us doctors for having disagreeable work todo,
but it seem to me that lawyers also are by

no means exempt from it. I will now go to
my patient, and will tell her as much of this as
I dare. I suppose I may infer that this is the
only reply to her note that Mr. Daylesford
intends to send ? '

Precisely,'

Then I wish you good morning, sir.'

The doctor had dismissed the lawyer hastily
and with ill-concealed contempt ; but the contempt
was principally directed against his
employer. He detested the idea of this man's
endeavouring to salve his own conscience by
offering a girl like Hester a money compensation.
How could he who Ime her insult her
so ? Meantime the doctor's hansom was rapidly
approaching St. Elizabeth's. The old man's
heart was very heavy. He did not think that
the blow would kill Hester, but he thought it
would tax her strength to the utmost.

She has slept the whole night through,'
said the nm-se ; ' she looks much better, but she
is very anxious, sir.'

The doctor went in. Hester was lying

with her eyes fixed on the door, and lie
watched him enter the room. His head was
slightly bowed. There was no brightness in
his eyes, and they were not raised frankly to
meet her own. He neither smiled cheerily as
was his wont, nor were his lips set together
like those of one who had a firm purpose —
they expressed the anxious indecision of a man
who has a painful duty to perform and has not
been able to decide on any way of doing it.
She drew the sheet over the lower part of her
face as if she foresaw that ere long she would
have need to hide the anguish that would be
seen in it, and kept her eyes fixed on his. He
came to the side of the bed, tried to speak, but
his voice seemed thick ; then he took her hand
and seemed more than ordinarily desirous to
ascertain the true state of her pulse, but she
felt that his hand was trembling.

Tell me what it is, doctor,' said she, very
gently. ' I know there is something that yoM
are afraid to tell me— I see it — I feel it.'

He tried to gain time, for his courage failed

VOL. II. ]S"

him, and he said, ' I hear that you have had a
very good night.'

Yes said she, ' a very good night. And
yet I have heard nothing from him. You sent
my letter ? '

Yes, I sent it.'

Can there have been any mistake ? He
was away, you said, but you know he would
get it this morning, and he might have sent a
telegram just to make me happy. — Doctor ! * she
exclaimed suddenly, ' There are tears in your
eyes ! — you have bad news for me which you
are afraid to tell ? ' He bowed his head in
sign of assent — no man could have felt more
wretched.

'He is going to be., married ?' said she,
rushing at once to the furthest limit of her evil
imaginings. He did not speak. She felt that
he could not contradict her words. She lay
perfectly still, but he could see a movement
under the bed-clothes which revealed that she
was clenching her hands together, and her face
gradually assumed a rigidness which showed

that she was bracing up her nerves to endurance.
Two tears rolled down her ashy pale
cheeks, but no others followed.

Are you quite sure of this ? ' she at length
asked in a very low voice. She spoke very
slowly, but her voice was quite firm.

My dear child, yes. I myself could not
believe it at first, but unhappily it is true.'

Why did he seem to want me back again,
then? Why did he put that message to mein
the paper ? ' said she, and each word she
uttered seemed wrung from her only by a
supreme efibrt of will.

Don't think of it — don't think of him ; his
conduct is inexplicable.' The doctor and nurse
both looked at their patient in the greatest
apprehension — her face was growing more and
more deathlike ; but they could see that she
was resolutely determined to endure to the
end.

Be as calm as you can, miss ; you see
you have your own health to think of,' urged
the nurse, and she put out her hand to smooth

N 2

away a bit of Hester's pretty brown hair from
her forehead. She meant it more as an encouraging
caress than a work of necessity, but
at the last moment she shrank from doing it.
Hester was far beyond reach of anything she
could do to soothe her, and the nurse recognised
the fact, and retreated.

My dear,' said the doctor, ' Mr. Dales
housekeeper told me that this was quite
a recent engagement. I shall always reproach
myself for not letting you see those papers.'

The tears once more dimmed Hester's eyes.
She put up her thin white hand to wipe them
away, and hide a look of pain which was passing
over her face.

I am so grieved if you feel that I have
done wrong about them,' said the poor old man.

I don't. I don't think about that at all.
I don't think about anything but him and all
that I have lost ; for he is lost, and for ever ! '
Then after a long pause she said, ' Is it Miss
Treherne ? ' and when the doctor said ^ Yes,'
she hid her face with her hands, but lay perfectly

still. After some time she said, ' Don't be
unhappy about the papers. If I had seen them
it would have made no difference. He might
perhaps have let me go back to him, but his
heart would not have been with me. He has
loved her for some time. You must tell him
I'm bearing it well. I don't want him to be
miserable on my account. I think, if you
please, I should like to be alone a while.'

The nurse, a homely, ignorant woman,
made the doctor a sign not to consent to this.
Ghastly visions of what might happen if he
did, flitted before her mind's eye; but the
doctor knew better, and said, 'You shall be
left alone; you are so good and brave that
you deserve to have your way. Come, nurse.'

He went and saw some other patients, and
an hour afterwards he looked in on Hester
again. Her cheeks were wet with tears, but
she was not actually crying ; only from time
to time tears of which she was all unconscious
slowly welled into her eyes. He looked
very anxious. He would have preferred a

hearty outburst of grief. She tried to speak
to him, but her voice failed her, and she could
not utter one word. She held out a wan hand
and looked gratefully in his face. He gave the
nurse some directions in private, and bade heron
no account leave Hester long alone. She
lay very still after he was gone. Afternoon
gave way to evening, and evening to night,
and still she was lying there with wide-open
eyes full of quiet misery. When the nurse
spoke to her she answered, but it was easy to
see that she preferred being left alone. * Try
to sleep,' said the nurse, in the early morning
hours ; ' a little bit of sleep would do you more
good than anything. Shut your eyes, and
then you will soon go over.'

Hester shut her eyes obediently, but they
were soon wide open again.

1 had a sister who went wrong, too,' observed
the nurse. ' Oh, miss, what she did
suffer when he deserted her ! '

Hester fixed eyes full of apprehension on
the nurse's face. This was such plain speaking

for a poor wounded girl to hear ; but, alas !
she could not complain of the view of her
conduct which the woman was taking.

He deserted her ? ' repeated Hester.

Yes, miss ; they all desert them sooner or
later,' replied the woman.

A flood of tears rushed to Hester's eyes.
The nurse's words had unsealed the fount of
tears.

Ay, cry, miss, do ; it will do you more
good than anything. It's terrible bad to bear,
I know ; but, miss, dear, I do hope what you
are feeling now will drive you to lead a better
life in future.'

Oh, nurse, be silent ! Do you want to
kill me ? ' But that kind, though coarse-texture
woman had said things which brought
the truth to her mind. The whole current of
her thoughts changed, and instead of lying
there feeling herself a wronged and despitefully
entreated woman, she began to wonder if
she were but receiving her deserts.

CHAPTEE XX.

PEDIGREE MAKING.

Forbear a while,
There's something tells me (but it is not love)
I would not lose you. — Merchant of Venice.

She does not love him, but she will accept
his love if he offer it, and will go through life
thinking little of the gift.' This had been
Hester's bitterest thought after she had seen
Daylesford and Josephine Treherne together.
At that time, if Zeph had been asked if she
would accept him she would have answered
by a decided negative ; a day or two later she
would have denied the possibility of such a
thing even with scorn ; and now she was his
engaged wife! How had this change been
brought about ? She knew of this other tie —
she knew of a strong feeling in her own heart

which ought for ever to have separated her
from him. She was not a child to be talked
into a marriage against her will, and besides
that, who was there to try to persuade her ?
Not her dreamy preoccupied father, not her
mother who so perfectly fulfilled the whole duty
of woman according to Blake's conception of
it, namely, that she should be an emanation of
the man whom she had chosen. Zeph had
not been surprised into the engagement. She
had had time to think and carefully weigh the
question ; but, alas ! when a man like Dales
is weighed in the scales, so many other
things, and most delightful and fascinating
things, cannot fail to be weighed with him.
Zeph's own life seemed to her to be dull, commonplace,
and even tragic in the ugliness and
meanness of its environment. She shuddered
when she thought of it ; her long visit to Berk-hampstead
had made her so alive to the horror
of it that she could not bear the idea of returning
home. ,It was so delicious to pass day after
day knowing nothing of the weary struggle to

make one pound do the work of two, and two
servants do the work of three. Life in Lome
Gardens, as compared with Hfe at the Castle,
was like living down in a coal-pit instead of in
the blessed light of day. And yet, after a while,
she would have to return to that wretched
existence. Her father could not stay at Berk-hampstead
for ever. All was beautiful and
harmonious there, and it was so easy to be
good. Sometimes she was a trifle dull, for she
had not many resources of her own, but she
had got into the habit of going into the library
with her father, and he generally found her
some little employment which made her feel
busy. It was strange Daylesford did not come
to see how they were going on ; sometimes she
felt a little piqued at his indifference on that
point, but if Mrs. Scatcherd said anything about
it, she declared that she could not understand
why he should leave London for such a quiet
place. If he had come to the Castle there
would surely have been a little more gaiety,
and Zeph pined for gaiety, and most of all for

another fancy ball. She had begun to forget
about Hester, and the pain she had felt on first
hearing of this liaison. These quiet weeks with
her father and mother had done much to restore
her calm, and yet in spite of tranquil days spent
in peace and great delight at the pleasantness
of the life she was then leading, Zeph could not
quite forget. On the afternoon of July 27,
Zeph was not doing anything particular, for
Mr. Treherne needed little help just then ; she
was in the library, but only for the sake of
companionship, and she was trying to make
herself believe that she was enjoying a book
she had in her hand. Suddenly she was called
away, for Mrs. Scatcherd had come in the
prettiest of pony-carriages to ask her to accompany
her to a village about six miles off. ' It
will do you good,' said she, kindly ; ' you sit in
the house too much ; you mope ! Not that
moping seems to suit you badly — I never saw
you look so pretty. Your complexion is lovely !
I wish I were a pretty young girl like you, but
I am quite old and plain.'

Go into the drawing-room, and look at
yourself in the glass, while I put on my things,'
said Zeph, for Mrs. Scatcherd and she were
standing by the hall-door ; ' do go, and then I
am quite sure you will see that you are not

Oh, yes, I am ; but I would not have come
out in this dingy tussle if I had known what
a radiant sylph was going to sit by my side.
White does suit you, dear, you look quite
delicious ; and how clever of you to wear those
becoming violet pansies. Put on that little
straw hat of yours, and then I defy any one to
resist you. You will be the queen of fairyland,
and I shall be the nut-brown maid. It can't
be helped. Be quick.'

Zeph was quick, and the pony made a
brilliant little departure. The day was splendidly
fine, but not too warm. The sky was
cloudless, the air calm. Everything was
steeped in sunshine. Zeph's heart bounded —
she was happy, she knew not why. Perhaps
it was the change of scene, for without quite
knowing it, she was often dull. How could

she be otherwise, having as she did with two
old people whose sole aim in life was to identify
themselves with the parchments they were always
poring over. From the summit of a long low
hill and far away on the road before them,
Zeph and her companion saw a cab struggling
slowly upwards. The sun glinted on the top
of it and made shining white patches of light —
the dust rose in clouds behind it.

Oh, look at the dust that wretched cab is
making ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd. ' We
shall be in the midst of it directly, and then
good-bye to all our nice freshness of appearance
! It is too bad — we make no dust.'

But we must,' said Zeph. ' If it makes
dust, we must make it too. We don't feel
that which we make ourselves, perhaps.'

I said I was old,' observed Mrs. Scatcherd,
but there is one thing which used to torment
me when I was a child that I remember as if
it were yesterday, and I could not be more
than three, if so much. I was so little that I
just came up to the knees of the big people

who took hold of my hand whenever I walked
out ; and I used to be choked with the dust
they made. I can recollect the clouds of it
they made each step they took, and it just rose
to the level of my eyes and mouth. That is
one good of growing up — your breathing arrangements
get to a better level. Do you
remember suffering from that ? '

I ? Oh no,' replied Zeph, as if she were
disappointed at having been deprived of these
inconveniences ; ' I have none of these memories
— my youth was spent in a town.'

I wish my age was ! ' said her companion,
fervently. ' I should like to know who is in
that cab — there is some luggage beside the
driver.'

'Some one for the Castle probably — perhaps
a new servant.'

Oh, no,' replied Mrs. Scatcherd, who was
intimately acquainted with the affairs of every
household within a radius of ten miles of her
own home. ' They are not changing any of
the servants at the Castle — ^I know that.'

Perhaps it is Mr. Daylesford ? '

Oh, you don't suppose that he would come
in a cab — he would have telegraphed for the
carriage. Fancy his coming in that thing ! '

'And he wrote to the butler about some
arrangements yesterday — I know he did^~he
would not have done that if he had intended
to come to-day.'

He may have changed his mind — he must,
for I do believe it is he ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Scatcherd, in great delight. ' But how sunburnt
he is, poor dear, I should scarcely have
known him ! ' She was right. It was Dales
He stopped the driver at once and got
out of the cab to speak to them, looking very
bright and handsome, but, as Mrs. Scatcherd
had said, richly bronzed by Icarian sunshine.
He expressed his delight at meeting them
so unexpectedly. They did the same, together
with warm congratulations on the happy termination
of his anxiety. Mrs. Scatcherd, as
usual, monopolised most of the conversation,
but Zeph looked quietly pleased to see him.

When he had re-entered his cab, which now
seemed dingier than ever, and they, too, had.
begun to pursue their way in an opposite direction,
Mrs. Scatcherd said, 'My dear, I
always thought that man was in love with
you, but now I am absolutely convinced of
it!'

Zeph made no reply, but when Mrs. Snatched
looked to see why she was so silent, she
saw that she was blushing violently. In truth,
Zeph herself had seen something in his greeting
which made Mrs. Scatcherd's words no surprise
to her.

'You need not deny it. I am never
deceived in things of that kind. That man
is over head and ears in love with you, and
you are a very lucky girl ! '

Zeph, trembling with strong feeling, laid
her hand on Mrs. Scatcherd's arm and said,
I think you are forgetting what you yourself
told me before Mr. Daylesford went away —
about that — that girl, you know.'

At first Mrs. Scatcherd was puzzled by

Zeph's words, but when she added that last
fragment of explanation, a light broke in upon
her brain — she understood what she meant at
once. ' It is he who is forgetting her, not I ;
and a very good thing too ! Such disgraceful
things must come to an end some time, and it
ought to be a great comfort to you to know
that you have helped to put an end to this-you
have been the means of rescuing him from
the clutches of this wicked woman — be thankful,
my dear.'

He ought to marry her,' said Zeph, in a
low voice.

Marry her ! I should like to know who
is going to do that ! '

I don't suppose you are right about his
feeling for me,' said Zeph, completely ignoring
what her friend had just said ; ' but I am afraid
I could never return his liking.'

Not return his liking ! ' Mrs. Scatcherd
stared at her in amazement. ' Not return his
liking ! I never heard anything so absurd in
my life ! Why, you might search the whole

VOL. II.

world through and not find any one so worthy
to be loved ! Any girl might be proud of
him ; he is a thoroughly fine fellow, manly
and noble. Just think how splendidly he has
behaved to his brother ; and how rich he is,
and handsome, and what a position he has ! '

Yes ; but in spite of all that, a girl could
not make herself love him if she were not inclined.'


Oh, yes, she could. She would be a very
fooHsh creature if she couldn't. Any girl of
sense would contrive to love him somehow or
other — that is, if she did not love some one else
already ' — added Mrs. Scatcherd unexpectedly,
and at the same time she fixed a piercing look
of inquiry on poor shrinking Zeph.

Zeph could not meet her gaze, her eyelids
fell, and she said in a low voice, ' It is not anyone
I can ever marry.'

Then if it is some one whom you can never
marry, you ought to be wiser than go on
thinking about him. My dear, you would be
acting most madly if you refused Godfrey

Daylesford, supposing such a great piece of
luck befell you, and he were to offer to
you.'

Mrs. Scatcherd, you forget what I cannot
you have no idea how that '

Stuff ! Besides, it is your duty to save
him. Nothing but really loving some good
young girl can save him.'

And very likely you are entirely mistaking
his feeling for me.'

Very likely,' replied Mrs. Scatcherd, with
mock humility. ' I never was considered a
person of much penetration ! My dear,' she
added with much fervour, ' I tell you again,
that man loves you ! '

I wish you would not talk of it,' said Zeph,
piteously. She herself was almost inclined to
believe he did, but she could not bear to hear
a half-formed thought put into words.

They spoke of other things ; they made
then call and set their faces homeward ; they
talked to each other, but in a dull subdued
way, avoiding all mention of Daylesford. Zeph



had a consciousness that she was each moment
drawing nearer and nearer to a crisis in
her life. Earnestly she wished that things
had been rather different. There was that
dark circumstance in Daylesford's previous
history, and there was another and yet more
potent obstacle. She still loved John Simonds.
Do what she would, she could not forget him.
Had it not been for these two obstacles, how
brilliantly happy she might have been — that
is, if what Mrs. Scatcherd had just said were
true. Everything life could offer that was
delightful would then have been hers. Dales
was charming, and Daylesford was rich
and great, and Zeph was ambitious to her
heart's core.

How you have been worrying yourself all
the way home ! ' observed Mrs. Scatcherd when
they reached the park gates. ' Your poor,
dear face has shown me how you were tormenting
yourself. And my dear child, your duty
is so plain.'

« Oh, don't say any more about it,' pleaded

Zeph, looking weary with the distress of her
own thoughts. They tried to keep up something
that might be called conversation on
other matters, as they drove through the long
avenue ; but it was a vain effort, and it was a
relief when they came to the Castle. ' Goodbye,
my dear,' whispered Mrs. Scatcherd.
Take my words seriously to heart.'

Zeph went straight to her own room ; she
wanted to escape from sight, and had not much
more time than was necessary to dress for
dinner. Her manner was very subdued all the
evening. She answered when she was spoken
to, but did not originate anything. All that
she could do was to look beautiful, and very
gentle and sweet. Mr. and Mrs. Treherne
stayed in the drawing-room all the evening asa
compliment to their host. He could have
dispensed with this act of self-sacrifice, for he
had been hoping for a repetition of his former
tete-astute with their daughter ; but he was
touched and pleased by Zeph's warm though
unobtrusive sympathy when he told them how

this brother Lad been saved. Mr. Treherne
reported progress, too, and dwelt on some discoveries
he had made, and there never was a
chance of speaking to Zeph alone.

The next morning was not unlike the evening
before so far as regarded restraint, but it
was very wet. When breakfast was over, Zeph
went to the window for a minute or two, and
stood watching the heavy rain beating down
the flowers outside and making great pools in
the corners of the beds.

Come, Zeph,' said Mr. Treherne ; he had
become accustomed to having her in the library
with him.

Oh, don't go to the library ! ' exclaimed
Daylesford. ' Come and play battledore and
shuttlecock in the corridor.'

One of the battledores is broken,' answered
Zeph, who was very much afraid of being left
alone with him, for she had a presentiment of
what was coming.

Oh, but we will mend it,' said Daylesford ;
we will get your father to pick us out a nice

strong bit of parchment from one of the charters
in the imminent room.'

My dear friend,' exclaimed Mr. Treherne,
fervently, ' you are no doubt speaking in jest ;
but if you knew the fate of many a precious bit
of parchment as well as I do, I think you would
forbear. The second decade of Livy was used
just as you want me to use your charter. One
page only was rescued from an injured battledore.
Think of that ! one solitary page !
Promise me — promise me solemnly — never to
say such a thing again, even in jest.' Then he
went away, and quietly, but decidedly and as
if she preferred it, Zeph followed her father and
mother.

Daylesford began to see that all the delicious
opportunities of seeing her alone which he
had once enjoyed were over. She now seemed
to feel that her place was with her father and
mother, and he was vexed to think that he had
himself to blame for this ; for it was he who,
for the sake of showing Mrs. Treherne the
castle and park, had suggested that Miss Theme

should for once become her father's
assistant. Zeph's manner was quite friendly,
but he was certain that she wished to avoid
him. He looked into the library once or twice
it did seem so strange to see her sitting therewith
the old folks — they seemed to take it asa
matter of course that she should be by their
side — pen in hand, making notes, copying
something, or, more usually, doing nothing.
Very soon he began to hate that rooni, and
look upon it as a dismal pit expressly constructed
to swallow up youth and beauty. He
went there, for the third time, later in the day.
She was looking tired ; Mr. Treherne was lost
in the depths of the inner room ; Mrs. Treherne
quietly knitting. ' The sun has come out. Miss
Treherne,' said he ; 'do give up work and take
a little turn. If you think the garden too
damp, we will go into the conservatories —
there are some flowers I want you to see.'

She looked up in some distress, and put her
finger on her lips. ' Don't say anything more
about going out just now,' she whispered.

Father wants me in a minute or two, I think.'
She whispered — did she not know that she
might have spoken in her usual voice — her
father had made up his mind to endure periodical
visits from his kind host, and never to let
himself be disturbed by anything that occurred
when Daylesford was there ?

Mrs. Treherne will do anything he wants,'
pleaded Daylesford.

Yes, but he likes me to be there in case
he has anything for me to do,' answered Zeph.

Then let us go to the far bay-window
until he comes out of the muniment room.
You will be within reach of recall, and we can
talk without fear of disturbing him. Do come ;
I want to tell you some of my adventures — we
have scarcely had a word together yet.'

Very reluctantly Zeph retreated with him
to the other end of the room. The window
was a wide bay, with a long low window-seat,
on which they found comfortable places side
by side. A writing-table stood in front of it,
and Zeph, who now seemed to think that she

could not exist happily without a pen in her
hand, mechanically drew this table nearer to
her and began scribbling on a sheet of paper.
He gently took the pen from her and said :
No ; you may have a pen in your hand when
you are sitting at that other table, but while
you are here, I mean to have your undivided
attention.' She folded her hands in assumed
meekness and sat dutifully looking at him.

He smiled and said, ' Are you taking me as
part of your daily stage of duty ? ' He was so
glad at having got her to himself, even so much
as this, that he felt quite gay.

I don't at all dislike duty,' replied Zeph.
It grows on one.'

It's a case of " seen too oft, familiar with
its face," I suppose,' said he.

But Zeph's range of reading had not included
the poem in question, and no ray of
intelligence betraying familiarity with the quotation
brightened her eyes. He did not mind
that, he had not lost his heart to her because
she knew where quotations came from. Just

at this moment, Mr. Treherne emerged from
the inner room and made his way to his own
table with a bit of discoloured parchment in
his hand. He was feasting his eyes on the
sight of it as he went, and he carefully cleared
a place to spread it out in safety.

Now I must go,' said Zeph.

Oh no, he has not so much as looked to
see if you are there,' said Daylesford. ' Wait
till he remembers your existence, at any rate.'

Zeph apparently resigned herself to this.
Daylesford was anxious to take her beyond
reach of a summons. He looked out of the
window behind him and said, ' It is so fine outside
now ; that shower has made everything
deliciously fresh. Do come out for a minute.'

No, thank you,' said Zeph, rising ; ' I
ought to go back to my work; ' and so saying
she began to move.

You surely would not be so unkind,' said
he, venturing to lay a restraining hand gently
on her arm. She dropped back into her seat
in a moment to make him take his hand away.

'Your father is buried in that document
said he, in a very low voice, for he was so
afraid of reminding him of their presence ; 'and
you know you were not really doing anything.'

You don't believe in my work ! ' she said,
looking dissatisfied.

Oh yes, I do ; you must be quite a good
antiquary by this time.'

Quite. I know all about terriers now ;
and do you know, Mr. Daylesford, I can
actually draw up a pedigree. I dare say you
don't believe me, but I can.'

Oh, can you ? I very much want you todo
something to my pedigree.'

What is it ? '

To help me to make an entry in it.'

I wonder whether I can,' she said.

You certainly can.'

'How proud I shall be if I have learned
enough to do it.'

You can do it without knowing anything.'

'Ah, how you lessen the honour and
glory ! ' she complained. ' I was so hoping for

an opportunity of showing my newly acquired
antiquarian knowledge.'

But I shall give you an opportunity of
showing me something I value a million times
more than that,' said he, in a still lower voice.
He looked so different from his usual self that
she began to wish her father would call her
back to his side, but he was hopelessly absorbed
in the perusal of his parchment treasure.
Again she looked at Daylesford, and saw his
eyes fixed on hers with an expression so full of
meaning, and meaning which she could not
fail to understand, that she almost cowered
beneath his gaze ; and turning her eyes in
another direction made things no better, for
she still seemed to feel his fixed on hers, and
knew what she should see in them if she dared
to look round again. Blushing, trembling, and
hardly able to speak from nervousness, she
made a last great struggle to restore their
interview to an easy footing, and pulled a sheet
of paper towards her, saying,

'Let me show you how clever I am at

drawing up pedigrees — I will do yours, but I
can't begin at the very beginning, for I don't
know the names of all the people, and how
things went in your family, — I mean if fathers
always succeeded sons properly, or if collateral
sometimes came in.' She was in such a state
of confusion and agitation, that she had no
idea how she was reversing the usual laws of
succession in this speech, and was only partly
conscious how her voice was trembling. ' I
shall have to begin with the husband of my
dear benefactress, Phillis Arnold,' and as she
named her, she involuntarily turned to lookout
on the lawn where her tombstone lay, a
gleaming grey slab in a broad expanse of sunlit
green.

Daylesford watched her as she wrote, and
she wrote quietly for some time.

You are doing it all right,' said he, ' so far
as their names go ; but you ought to give the
dates of their births, deaths, and marriages, and
you don't know them.'

Oh, I shall easily get them from the

registers and tombstones in the church,' said
Zeph lightly, for she was beginning to hope
that she was going to escape the danger of
which she had just been in such terror. She
heard him say, ' Unhappily, you won't get all
of them there.' Then she remembered the circumstances
of his father's marriage, and what
an unfeeling creature she must appear to him.
Oh, how thoughtless I must seem to you ! '
said she, now looking sorrowfully in his face.
Forgive me ! My head is confused with other
thoughts.'

Mine is confused too, and yet it is only full
of one thought,' he replied, ' and the sooner
you know it '

Don't tell it to me now,' she exclaimed ;
she felt as if she would have liked to sink into
the earth.

Then I'll write it,' said he. ' Give me
you: pedigree, and I will add something which
will make it entirely right according to my way
of thinking;' and he took a pen and wrote
something hurriedly. Then he laid a sheet of

blotting-paper on it, and looked anxiously in
her face.

Father is getting so fidgety ! ' said Zeph ;
he hears us talking.'

It can't be helped ! ' said Daylesford —
never had Mr. Treherne's feelings been so disregarded
before.

Daylesford folded the paper and gave it to
her, looking fixedly at her as he did so. ' Eead
what I have written,' said he, ' and tell me if it
is right.'

Perhaps it is difficult to understand,' said
she.

No, not at all.'

Difficult to answer then ? '

I hope not. Look at it — you are trying
me too much. Eead it, and remember that the
happiness of my whole life is in your hands.'

Don't ask me to read it while you are
here,' said she, piteously.

He rose to go in a moment. Had he been
alone with her he would have stayed to plead
his cause, but as it was, with Mrs. Treherne

looking up from her work every three or four
minutes, and with the certainty that if he raised
his voice Mr. Treherne would be disturbed aud
at once call Zeph back to her duties, he felt he
could say nothing likely to move her. ' I'll go
into the garden,' said he ; ' you will make me
unspeakably happy if you will come to me
there.'

Zeph watched him leave the room, and
then opened the folded paper. She saw the
pedigree she had been trying to draw up, but
at the end she saw some words in his handwriting.


Marmaduke, = Phillis, tau. John Arnold, Esq.
1). d. . I of Sunny Lea ; l. d.

Marmaduke, h. = Sicilia, tau. and heiress of

d. Feb. 4, 18—. I Sh Gilbert Dent, of Boughton
I l d. 18—.

I I

Jasper, & Cyril, l. = Janet, tau. Lieut. Murray ;

d. unmarried, d. before his father. I h. 18 — d. 18 — .

I

Marmaduke, h. 18 — ; Godfrey, l. 18. —-josephine,

became Governor of the eldest tau. Edward

Icarian Islands, and was Trelierne, Esq., and dearly

much loved by his brother. loved hy Godfrey Daylesford,

on the very earliest day he could

prevail on her to close.

VOL. II.

She sat in a kind of stupor — that which
she greatly feared had come upon her. She
saw him in the garden and could not but own
that he was a man any woman might be proud
of. He was handsome, kindly, and had generously
offered her so much. And yet it was so
difficult to know what to do ! She sat buried
in thought. Her head drooped lower and
lower, and at last she laid it on the table and
tried to still its throbbing.

Mrs. Treherne observed this and made her
husband look.

Zeph, my love,' said he, ' I hope you are
not ill'

No, dear,' she replied, sitting up at once ;
not ill at all, thank you.'

Come here, then, and let me have you near
me,' said he.

She crossed the room with slow and faltering
steps and sat down in her accustomed place
she even took up her pen.

No, my child,' said he, * you shall not do
any more work for me to-days You do not

look well. You may give me that bit of writing
you did after breakfast, I am ready for it now.'

Zeph, in a maze of confusion, began turning
over the papers lying before her — her version of
the Daylesford Pedigree, what she had copied,
and other things. Seeing that she could not
find what he wanted, he put out his hand to
examine the papers himself. She took up the
pedigree and gave it to him.

Will you read that, father,' she said, ' and
tell me what I am to do ? '

What is it ? ' he asked. ' What have you
been doing ? '

What is it ? A pedigree ! ' said Mrs. Tree
who had come nearer and was reading
over her husband's shoulder. Zeph rose and
went to her father, put her arm round his neck,
and laid her soft cheek against his.

Dear father, help me,' said she. ' It is a
fragment of pedigree that I drew up to show
Mr. Daylesford that I had learnt something by
sitting here with you, and he wrote that bit at
the end, and that is how he says he wants his

p 2

pedigree to be, father ; and now he is in the
garden waiting till I give him an answer.'

Mr. Treherne drew his head away from her
that he might look in her face to see if she
were in her sound mind. He had never thought
of Zeph's marrying at all, much less of her
marrying a man like Daylesford. His eyes were
full of astonishment.

Zeph, my child, are you in earnest ? Mr.
Daylesford has offered you his hand ? '

Yes, dear, he has, but '

Such a marriage exceeds my most sanguine
hopes ! My dear Zeph, a place in such a
pedigree as the Daylesfords' is not offered to a
girl like you once in twenty years ! '

But, father dear, I am in doubt whether I
can love him enough to marry him.'

'Then you had better go to your room
and take solemn thought with yourself. You
must not accept him lightly. You yourself best
know the state of your owen feelings. Go, my
dear, and take ample time to reflect.' Then, as
this was a crisis in her life, and he loved her

dearly, he added, ' My dear, would you like to
have your mother with you ? I will spare her
to you, if you wish it.'

No, thank you,' said Zeph ; ' I had better
be alone. Thank you for not trying to persuade
me.'

She shut herself in her own room and tried
to think she loved Daylesford, for a life linked
with his would exactly suit her ambition. She
could not deceive herself. She admired him,
she liked to be with him, but he had never
touched her heart, and she knew why. After
more than an hour had passed, she resolved to
write and say she could not marry him, and to
give him the true reason, for she knew he
would accept no other. She wrote her letter
and sat for a long while looking at it. The
sacrifice was too great for her, she could not
send that letter. If she did she would lose a
brilliant future — she would have to leave the
Castle at once ; she would never be invited
there again ; never be invited to anything by
Godfrey Daylesford, but have to live in Lome

Gardens just as she had Hved before she knew
him ! She could not do it ! Why should she
sacrifice so much for the sake of a man she
never intended to marry? She absolutely
shuddered at the thought of Lome Gardens.
She tore up the letter she had written. It was
a foolish letter she thought, but it had done her
good to write it. She took a new piece of
paper and wrote ; ' It shall be as you wish
some time,' put it in an envelope, and sent it
to Daylesford. And thus was an engagement
which brought such misery on others entered
into.

CHAPTEE XXI.

BECAUSE I HAVE Seen HIM.

The bridegroom spoke low and led onward the bride,
And before the high altar they stood side by side,
The rite book is opened — the rite is begun,
They have knelt down together to rise up as one.

Lay of the Brown Rosary.

'And now that the thing is done,' said Zeph,
I do not intend to make myself miserable
about what has gone before. I shall take all
the good that comes in my way and enjoy it.'
This she said to herself in the stillness of her
chamber, but she had not the slightest conception
of the amount of good (good according to
her conception of the word) that would come
her way. Before she was engaged to Dales
she had been a pretty girl on a visit at
the Castle, whose existence was to be made as
pleasant as possible while she was there, but

that was all. Now she was the great lady of
the place, and every one treated her with a
deference that at first made her uncomfortable.
Daylesford himself was so happy and
proud of her that every minute of her life
seemed a triumph. Hitherto she had known
nothing of such homage as this. She was
almost distressed by it. And she was consulted
about everything. She had suddenly
become a person whose voice had weight in
every discussion, and whose lightest wish was
sure, if possible, to be gratified. She had the
great happiness, too, of seeing that her father
was delighted with her engagement. She taxed
him with caring for it because it gave her
the entree of the Daylesford pedigree, but she
-knew that she did him an injustice and that
he heartily liked her betrothed husband. Her
days were now spent in a bewilderment of
pleasures and arrangements. The ' County '
came to congratulate — the county entertained
them, and the most beautiful presents arrived
daily. She had said that she would not allow

herself to think of the past — it is scarcely too
much to say that from the time when her
engagement was made known she had no
leisure to think of anything but each day's
brimming measure of excitement and occupation.
Long conversations with Daylesford and
endless consultations with dress-makers and
milliners, and letters to shops, and letters
thanking people for wedding-presents, and
hours spent in receiving pleasant visitors and
paying pleasant visits made up the sum of
Zeph's existence. Sometimes the thought
flashed into her mind, ' I might have been
sitting boring myself to death on my old black
box in Lome Gardens if I had not the sense to
tear up that letter of refusal ! ' and she sighed
a deep sigh of relief at having for ever escaped
that woe. She was not even going back thereto
be married ! Mr. Treherne did not want to
have to take a journey and leave his work for
so long, and Zeph hated the thought of going ;
so she entreated Daylesford to let the wedding
take place quietly in the little tumble-down

parish church close by. Dr. Scatcherd was to
perform the ceremony, and Jemmy Benson,
the little boy who had been hiding in the
bedroom at the vicarage, on the eventful day
when Zeph had spent the morning there, and
who had become a great friend of hers, was to
help Jack to hold up her magnificent train.
Marrying quietly did not mean anything beyond
the use of the word. Zeph was to have
her due length of train and due richness of
silk, and she was to wear the diamonds that
her brother-in-law the governor had given her.
He was coming all the way from Santa Eulalia
to be present at the ceremony. She was to
have four bridesmaids ; but there was a little
vexation connected with the bridesmaids, for
she had had great difficulty in persuading her
sister Polly to be one of the number. Polly
had refused, and the only reason she had given
was that she did not care about the engagement.
Polly had yielded, but her words had
left a sting, which on the very rare occasions
when Zeph had time to think of such things

still caused her pain. She could not help
thinking sometimes of her own sisters and their
sayings, but she never thought of the lover of
her youth ; and as for Hester, for the present,
at all events, all remembrance of her was
absolutely wiped out. If any one had told
Zeph a week or two ago that a day would
come when these things would pass from her
mind, she would have laughed the idea to
scorn — but such was the case now ; her every
thought was given to pretty dresses, jewels,
carriages, court ceremonies, and all the rest
was a tissue of bright hopes.

She was rather afraid of the governor.
My dearest Zeph, you need not be afraid of
him,' said Daylesford ; ' he will love you, I am
certain, both for your own sake and for mine.'

I hope so, I am sure,' said she ; * you must
promise me to tell him that both the Trehernes
and Seatons are very good families.'

He was so much in love that he scarcely
smiled, and when she went on to tell him that
she was glad he had no other near relations.

he did not object to that either. The governor
came a fortnight before the wedding. He was
as handsome as his younger brother, and very
like him, but stronger, and perhaps cleverer-looking,
and he seemed to be at least ten years
older than Godfrey. His arrival doubled the
excitement ; and now there was a constant
coming and going of London people and great
and small county neighbours. Miss Everilda
and Polly, Agnes and Jack were all at the
Castle now, and sometimes Zeph was in an
agony of apprehension lest Miss Everilda's
absurdities should disgrace the family, or Polly
or Agnes seem too infinitely below the Dales
standard of propriety. Miss Everilda was
enraptured with the Castle — she sat for hours
together crouched on the stairs gazing at the
pictures, and jotting down any great thoughts
which occurred to her, in a crimson morocco
note-book. She wrote poems by the dozen,
and when writing of the two Daylesfords was
not above making use of Castor and Pollux.
Jack spent his time with the Scatcherd

boys, most of whom were Indian children and
had no holidays. Polly and Agnes wandered
about the house, garden, and grounds in perfectly
new, well-chosen, and well-made dresses ;
for Miss Everilda would not have them lightly
esteemed by their new great relations, and had
supplied them with an outfit. They had
blossomed out into fine handsome Teutonic
goddess-like girls, and walked with their heads
erect, and with honest clear eyes looked straight
out on a world which was now treating their
family with most unexpected kindness. They
had never seen such a handsome place as the
Castle. Zeph had paid visits to handsomer
places with her betrothed, and knew that it
was not by any means the most splendid nobleman's
house in the kingdom, but they thought
it was.

It is such a pity that it is not really yours,'
said Agnes, one morning when they were all in
Zeph's room. ' Isn't it, Polly ? '

Polly, who though much reassured as to
Zeph's feelings, could not forget how John

Simonds had looked and spoken that day at
the Kennedyss, did not speak ; she was often
silent when the Daylesford honours and glories
were under discussion.

It is rather a pity said Zeph, pensively.
especially as Marmaduke is always away ; but
then it is so nice to think of Godfrey behaving
so well, and of the two brothers being such
good brothers to each other.'

They might have been just as good
brothers,' replied Agnes, ' and the place have
belonged to your Mr. Daylesford ; as it is, it is
lost ! It can't be said to belong to either of
them now.'

Oh, it's all right ! ' exclaimed Zeph ; ' they
have arranged it as they think best, and I quite
agree with them.'

Well, I don't ! ' said Agnes, decidedly ;
and I think the governor puts himself too
much forward, considering he has no right to
anything but what his younger brother gives
him.'

Zeph went away. She did not choose to

listen to this, and did not see what Agnes
had to do with it. Zeph liked the governor,
and the only fault that she saw in him was that
he absorbed too much of Godfrey's time ; but
even that did not distress her much, for he was
only to be in England that one fortnight. Zephyrs
on her way to the drawing-room to escape
Agnes : on the stairs she encountered Miss
Everilda.

You are the luckiest girl in the world, my
dear Zeph,' said she. ' You have a peerless
lover and a princely brother-in-law, and you
are young and beautiful, and have a career
before you ! '

There she touched a chord in Zeph's nature
which vibrated at once. All this was not
fulfilment — it was but the prelude to a long
course of social triumphs. Godfrey and she
were both fitted by nature to shine in the
great world, and in the great world they would
seek their happiness and find it.

Mrs. Scatcherd is downstairs in the ,'
added Miss Everilda, casually, ' I

got SO far as this on my way upstairs to ask
you to go and see her, and then I had a good
idea, and just sat down a moment to make a
note of it.'

Oh, I am so busy. She is always here ! '
said Zeph, impatiently.

That was true. Mrs. Scatcherd was persuaded
that nothing could go right unless she
herself lent a helping hand to it, and wanted
every one to feel the same. Zeph had become
rather intimate with her without much caring
for her ; principally because Mrs. Scatcherd
was the kind of person who insisted on being
intimate, and now Zeph bitterly regretted
certain conversations which had taken place
between them. She did not want to see her
now, and went back to her room and asked one
of her sisters to go and say politely that she
was too busy to go downstairs.

Too busy ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd to
Polly, who was the one who went ; ' I can well
believe it ! What an exciting time this is !
Even for me it is exciting, but then I really

have had a great deal to do with bringing this
match about. Just think what madness it
would have been if she had refused him ! '

Polly looked at Mrs. Scatcherd in amazement.
The excited little lady was in full swing
of exulting self-glorification, and wanted no
answer to anything she said. 'Perfect madness
! What queer miserable lives girls would
often make for themselves, if they had not
some one with judgment by their side ! You
will scarcely believe it, I know, but it took a
great deal of persuading to make that dear
sister of yours marry Mr. Daylesford. It must
never go beyond ourselves, of course, but for a
long time she was determined to refuse him !
I need make no secret of all this with you
you know more about it than I do. You, of
course, know why .^ '
Polly hesitated.

And you know it is not as if she could

have married this other man that she had such

a fancy for,' added Mrs. Scatcherd. ' She never

would have married him. Just fancy what

vol II. Q

folly it would have been to refuse such a first-rate
marriage as this for a shadow ! Well, let
bygones be bygones — I shall always rejoice at
the part I have been permitted to play. You
must promise me not to mention this conversation
— your dear sister might not like it. Promise
me you won't, and let us say no more
about it. I want to know if she has had any
nice new presents.'

Polly sat for a long time after Mrs.
Scatcherd's frivolous presence had at last been
removed, doubting what she ought to do. It
seemed so dreadful to speak to Zeph on such a
subject as this — so wicked to leave her unspoken
to. At last, slowly and thoughtfully, she walked
upstairs to her sister's room. The two girls had
of late appeared to have changed characters.
Zeph was given over to dress and vanity, and
Polly had become grave and anxious. She
opened Zeph's door timidly. What she saw
was this : Zeph, who, owing to her father's
liberal salary and to his and Miss Everilda's
boundless generosity on this great occasion,

was in no want of money, had received a large
box of hats from London on approbation, and
was now standing at the looking-glass trying to
get an idea of their effect. She was turning her
head this way and that, and smiling her satisfaction
at her own image in the glass.

Polly was very much afraid of speaking to
Zeph about her marriage. Nothing but a strong
feeling of anxiety and duty would have made
her risk her almost inevitable indignation. She
said, ' Zeph, I want to say a few words to you,
dear.' Zeph knew in a moment that it was
something that she would think disagreeable,
and turned to face Polly in a way that made
her so nervous that she uttered her thoughts in
any words which presented themselves. * Zeph,
dear, do you never fear that you have chosen
the wrong man? '

Polly's words fell so strangely on an intelligence
which had separated itself from everything
that did not concern the future, that fora
moment Zeph did not seem to understand
them. Then she coloured violently and said,

Q 2

Mary, how dare you ? How can you say such
a thing to me ? '

Because I have seen him ! ' said Polly,
earnestly. ' I have seen him, and talked with
him, and know how much he loves you, and
how much right you have given him to believe
that you returned his affection.'

Zeph turned away, but Polly saw that her
face was crimson with the sudden shame of this.

Mary, be silent ! ' she said. ' You know
that I am going to be married in a few days.
I wonder your own sense of decency does not
prevent your speaking in such a way ! '

Polly was by no means abashed, there was
a great deal of honest fervour in her. She laid
her hands on Zeph's shoulder, and said, ' Zeph,
I am your own sister. I have loved you always,
even when I seemed most disagreeable ; you
know how we are situated ; you know that we
have no father and mother to guide us. If
I don't speak to you about this, no one will.
I know I am not equal to you in any way,
but be kind to me and listen. Do you love

Mr. Daylesford ? Can you honestly say you
do?'

Zeph tried to break loose from her sister's
grasp, but that was no easy thing to do. Polly
was strong in physical strength, strong in sense
of right. Zeph ceased to contend with her.
Answer, dear — answer truly,' persisted Polly.

How stupid ! ' exclaimed Zeph, angrily ;
how ridiculously stupid you are ! He asked
me that, of course — Godfrey asked me that —
and I said yes, and no one else has anything todo
with it.'

Then let me put my question in another
way — Zeph, I will speak — you must listen ! '
Por Zeph was saying ' JSTo ! No ! ' and trying to
escape, ' Can you honestly say that you have
ceased to love John ? '

Zeph again flushed crimson, but this time
with anger.

Mary, this is unbearable ! '

No, dear, it is not. I entreat you to believe
that I only speak because I love you.'

Then if you speak because you love me,

sobbed Zeph, ' why do you speak of things
likely to make me unhappy ? All that is past
and gone. I never think of it. I never want
to think of it. I could not have been happy
with John, he ought to have known it. Fancy
a girl, brought up as I have been, being willing
to begin another life of the same kind, but of
her own making ! The thing is absurd — if ever
I thought of it I was a fool ! — ^I should have
died of a broken heart ! '

Polly shook her head.

'You still have not answered my first
question,' she urged. 'Do you love Mr.
Daylesford ? '

Of course I do ! ' replied Zeph ; ' am I not
going to marry him in four or five days ? If I
said no, what would you do — take upon yourself
to go and tell him that the marriage must
he broken ofi*?'

Polly sighed wearily, and said, ' Better
even do that than let you marry him when
you loved another man. Oh, Zeph ! say what
you will, I fear you do. Have some sense,

have some true feeling, don't go madly into
this just because all the outside trappings of
the life Mr. Daylesford offers you are so pretty
and handsome, and to your taste. Ask yourself
"if you love him enough to be a good, true
wife to him whether he is rich or poor.'

Of course I do, but I prefer to have him
rich. Mary, I dare say, all this is well meant,
but you are behaving very like a goose ! '

Polly relaxed her hold. She told herself
that she might have known that it was in vain
for a poor blundering creature like herself to
touch the heart or conscience of such a girl asher
sister ! She had tried and she had failed,
and she knew it was in vain to say any more.
Zeph meant to do it. That was all.

I have said my words of warning,' said
Polly ; ' you despise me for saying them.
Give me a kiss to show that you are not angry
with me. God grant you may never regret
what you are doing ! ' and she left the room.
These words rang in Zeph's ears. Her heartfelt
very full, and she sat for a long while

without being able to move. She wished
Polly had shown her the kindness of being
silent on this subject. She had spent an hour
or more much less pleasantly than any she had
known for some weeks. Polly had stirred up
certain thoughts, raised certain doubts. They
were thoughts and doubts which Zeph was
quite equal to laying to rest again, but not
without an effort and assuredly not without
pain.

When she went down to luncheon, however,
her face was bright as usual. She showed no
sign of consciousness or resentment in her
treatment of Polly — no change in her behaviour
to Daylesford. She could look in the
face of both without an effort, and speak as
hight-heartedly as if nothing had happened ;
and five days afterwards, when she went to the
village altar with him, and pledged her word
to love, honour, and obey him, she did it
unhesitatingly ; she shed no tear, apparently
harboured no doubt, shrank from no pledge.

CHAPTEE XXn.

THE GOLDEN APPLE.

Unbidden guests
Are often welcomes when they are gone. — Ilewy VI.

The Abominable, that uninvited came

Into the fair Persian banquet-hall,

And cast the golden fruit upon the board

And bred this change ; that I might speak my mind

And tell her to her face how much I hate

Her presence. — Oenone.

Six months had passed away and the Dales
were at home again after another long
tour on the Continent. Godfrey Daylesford
had enjoyed it much more than his wife had
done, for he had been born and bred abroad
and was more at home there than in England.

Zeph, who was not sufficiently well educated
to take much pleasure in seeing far-famed places,
and so imperfectly acquainted with foreign
languages that she scarcely ventured to open

her lips, especially in her husband's presence,
would gladly have returned to her own
country before winter. To her London was
everything. She had always been aware of
the joys it held in its keeping for those who
were properly equipped to enter into them, and
now she, thanks to her own youth and beauty,
and to Daylesford's position, was, as she fondly
hoped, so equipped, and she ardently longed
for a full measure of them. It was April when
she and her husband reached England once
more. They had travelled quickly at the last,
and Zeph was so tired that it had seemed
desirable to stay the night at Dover, but her
impatience to get to her journey's end was so
great that they left by an early train next
morning.

Oh, I am glad we are back ! ' said she,
turning from the bright landscape she had
been enjoying from the railway-carriage windows
to her husband. ' How lovely everything
looks ! ' He smiled affectionately ; it
was so natural that after being so long a wayfarer

she should pine to be at rest in her own
home ; but England had never yet been a
home to him.

Here we are ! ' said he, two hours later,
and Zeph with some emotion looked at the
house which she was now going to enter as
mistress, and remembered that evening more
than a year ago when she and Jack had been
so amazed with the splendour they had seen by
stolen glances from the outside. She was so
engrossed by the thought of this, that she did
not observe that Daylesford was waiting to
help her out of the carriage.

'Come, dear,' said he, taking her hand;
won't you come .^ '

She walked into the house with conscious
pride.

Welcome home, my darling,' said he.

She put her hand in his and felt that he
was very kind and good to her. He looked
round, but saw no familiar face, for there was
an entirely new staff of servants ; he had
thought it better that his old life and his new

should be kept altogether apart. The other
servants had known Hester, and some of them
had shown a regard and pity for her far above
the wont of their kind ; but they were gone,
and she was gone, and he was now walking
across the hall with a new love who was his
wedded wife. And yet, though he was passionately
attached to Zeph, and felt her soft
little hand lying in his, he could not repress a
host of memories, and at every turn he seemed
to see a ghostly image of poor ill-treated, forsaken
Hester. He sighed heavily and felt the
trouble of this gathering about him, but he
made a violent effort and turned to look at
Zeph. She was gazing around on every side,
and all seemed very magnificent to her. They
went into the breakfast-room which looked
into a large garden, and then they were left
alone.

Godfrey,' she said very gently, ' I feel
such a poor humble little creature now that
you have brought me here. I don't think I
am good enough for you.' She had not expected

to feel this, and was surprised to find
herself doing so.

My daring,' said he, kissing her, ' you
are a thousand tunes too good for me ! '

Zeph was easily persuaded that this was
the case, and then he began to wonder what
they had better do to spend the time till
luncheon was ready, which it would not befor
half an hour. Zeph was guided to her own
room, where she took off her outdoor apparel,
and then looked curiously at some closed doors
near. She was longing to see the house, but
she thought that the proposal to go over it
ought to come from him, and it was one that
he was never likely to make, for he did not
think there was anything worth showing. She
returned to the breakfast-room, and somewhat
discontentedly strolled to one of the windows
and looked out to see if there was a pretty
view from it, and then she sank into a chair
and was soon half-buried in thought, half-occupied
in gazing at all she saw from the
open window. The day was fine, but vexed

by a never-ending contention between sun and
wind. The sun set its mark on the glistening
upturned leaves of evergreens which had borne
the burden and cold of the winter; the wind
dashed the leaves about until they almost
dazzled her as they flashed backwards and
forwards. The flower-beds were filled with
daffodils which tossed their heads in the breeze,
but did not remind her of Words worth's poem,
for she had never happened to read it ; but
there was an exquisite almond tree, and the
tender pink petals rained down, and the sweet
scent of the rosy blossoms filled her soul with
delight. She was by the open window; he
was standing by the fire, for he had found a
table on which a large heap of letters was
lying, and from these he was culling one or
two which seemed to promise to be interesting.
What quantities of letters there were, and what
piles of prospectuses of new companies ! How
easy it seemed to secure ten or twenty percent.,
and v^hat foolish self-restraint not to
accept the offer of it! Daylesford rarely

opened one of these, but he gradually became
more interested in examining his letters, and
the noise he made in converting some of them
into roughly executed balls which he flung
angrily into the grate roused Zeph from her
dreamy state of wonder at the strangeness of
having exchanged Lome Gardens for Ambassadors'
Gate, and fear lest by any chance this
new Hfe which lay before her looking so full of
promise might after all fail to fulfil her expectations.


My dear Godfrey,' she exclaimed, ' what
a noise you are making with those papers ! I
wish I had as many letters as you have

Letters, dear? Bills, some of them paid
long ago ; begging letters, circulars, all kinds
of things one never reads more than a word of.
You need not wish for such letters as these.
Besides, you have a little pile of your own
there on the mantelpiece. Why don't you
open them .^ '

'What an unfeeling husband you are not
to have told me that before ! Do you suppose

that I should have sat all this time looking out
of the window, if I had known that there were
any letters for me ? ' And she took possession
of a tolerably large packet, which when the
circulars and invitations to inspect milliners'
show-rooms and other useless communications
of the like kind were weeded forth, still yielded
a few letters. She gazed at the address with
pleasure, though Godfrey always told her she
had no legal right to be called the Honourable
Mrs. Daylesford. One letter was from Polly,
from Seaton Court, where she was paying a
visit to Miss Everilda which had already lasted
six weeks. Zeph could not but remember that
Alnminster was within a drive of Seaton Court.
But Polly was not the kind of girl to mention
John Simonds — Zeph had no fear of that.
Polly had nerved herself to make that one last
appeal just before the marriage, and having
failed then, would now for ever hold her peace.
She was well and happy. Miss Everilda was
very kind to her. There was little enough in
Polly's letter beyond a welcome home, but

Zeph thought that she detected a certain restraint
in her style which betokened much
suppression. ' She is seeing a good deal of
John, I suppose,' thought Zeph, ' and she has
difficulty in avoiding all mention of him.' She
put the letter down with a certain dissatisfaction.
Polly's style chilled her.

There was nothing to chill her in the next
letter which she opened. It was from Mrs.
Scatcherd. That lady, now as ever, seemed
determined to take for granted that she was
Zeph's dearest friend — the artificer of her high
fortune, the buttress of her life. ' I have
heard with the greatest joy from the dear old
people at the Castle ; ' Zeph gasped — how
dared she speak thus of her father and mother ?
' that you are coming home on April 3. Of
course I shall come to you, my dearest, as soon
as possible. If you feel as I do, every hour
will seem a week until we meet. I don't think
I can wait until you write to invite me. I will
hurry up to town to see you on the 4th. I
should like to go on the 3rd, but must give you

VOL. II. R

time to recover the fatigue of your journey.
This will enable me to bring you the last news
of your dear father and mother. Mrs. Tree
says that she is going to write to you
herself by this post, but I imagine that she is
almost certain to find something come in her
way at the last, so it is a good thing I have
decided to come, for I shall be able to supply
you with the last news of them. Do not
imagine that it is inconvenient to me to leave
home ; of course I would do it even if it were,
but the doctor says he will spare me for a week
or so. I think you will want me at least a
week, and shall therefore come prepared. I am
more than glad to accept his kind offer to spare
me, for the boys are having their Easter
holidays, and you can guess what that means.
As he has no teaching just now, he must
struggle with them as best he can in the absence
of his assistant, who is away too, and I cannot
help thinking that this, though disagreeable,
will be such a complete change of work that it
will do him good. I hope and trust some of it

will be physical, for if ever two boys stood m
need of a good caning the two Lawrence do,
and your friend Jemmy Benson is about as bad.
I shall be perfectly delighted to see you again,
dear, and I hope and trust you will be equally
pleased to see me.'

My dear Godfrey ! ' exclaimed Zeph, putting
this letter in his hand, ' Mrs. Scatcherd
says she is coming to stay with us, and that she
will be here tomorrow.'

Zeph scarcely knew whether she wanted to
see her or not, but her husband had no doubt
on the subject. ' Did you ever ask her to
come ? ' he inquired.

I, Godfrey, when I had only just been
invited to stay in the house myself? ' she
replied.

Then she is a most impudent woman !
We won't have her here. She wants to get
away from the boys and to buy her spring
dresses, but you don't wish to see her for so
long, Zeph. You can't ; it's impossible ! '

I don't want to see her for a whole week.

E -1

and when we have just come home too. She
is kind, but she forces her friendship too much
on us. But she is coming — we cannot stop
her.'

Oh yes, we can. Write and say that we
shall see her in her own home, that we are
going to Berkhampstead tomorrow to see your
father and mother. I'll telegraph — that will
be better.'

But are we really going .^ '

Yes.'

Zeph was half regretful. She dearly loved
her father and mother, but she wanted to stay
at home. She had not spent twenty-four hours
in the same place for nearly three weeks.

I wish I could see Agnes,' said she ; ' she
and Jack are at home. If the Scatcherd boys
are having their holidays. Jack is having holidays
too. I wonder they don't come to see
us.'

Daylesford rang the bell. ' Send the carriage
to 5 Lome Gardens, De Manvers Town,
for Miss Agnes Treherne and her brother. Say

that your mistress lias come home and wants to
see her.'

I'll send a line,' said Zeph, though in her
heart she rather admired this regal way of
doing things. ' Our change of plan has put
her out ; no doubt she came last evening.'

She did, ma'am,' said the man, ' and a
young gentleman came with her.'

Zeph scribbled her note and then opened
a bulky epistle from Miss Everilda, but on
further inspection she found that a great part
of it was a poem.

Hail, beauteous bride of seven sweet moons,'
read Zeph.

Is there nothing about the bridegroom ? '
asked Daylesford. ' How bridegrooms do get
left out ! '

It's all about the bride,' said Zeph, ' and I
almost think I shall read it some other time.'
Daylesford laughed. ' There is a letter from
her, I will read that,' said she.

It will be just as high-flown,' he remarked.

It was. ' Sweet child,' wrote Miss Everilda,

when your eyes fall on this you will be in
your husband's ancestral home.'

We have a seven, fourteen, and twenty-one
years' lease,' said Daylesford, 'and nearly
eighteen months of it are gone ! Go on.'

You are basking in the purple splendour of
his star-like love.'

Let us have that again. You might alter
the arrangement of those words just as you
pleased without making any difference to their
want of sense. I don't think I ever '

Mrs. Scatcherd,' said the footman, suddenly
opening the door to allow that lady to
enter. She came precipitately forward, threw
her arms round Zeph and embraced her tenderly.
Then she put her half a yard away from
her to feast her eyes on the sight of Zeph's beloved
face, and then fell to kissing her again,
doing it deliberately and pecking at favourite
spots on her cheeks just as a bird pecks at the
rosiest and ripest part of a cherry. Daylesford
meanwhile stood watching this ceremony with
every mark of impatience, to the great discomfiture

of Zeph, who occasionally saw his face
over Mrs. Scatcherd's shoulder.

At last Zeph succeeded in breaking away
from this effusive greeting. ' I have this moment
read your letter,' said she. ' We thought
that tomorrow was the day on which you
proposed to come to town.'

No, not tomorrow ; to-day, the day after
your arrival. I should have liked to have been
here to welcome you, but I know husbands like
to be alone on such occasions to show their
wives their new home, and all that kind of
thing.'

We have only been in the house about
three quarters of an hour,' said Daylesford, very
coldly.

We slept at Dover ; I was so tired,' added
Zeph, almost apologetically, ' and I have not
seen the house yet.'

Then do let us go and explore it together,
said ]airs. Scatcherd, nothing daunted. ' I daresay
Mr. Daylesford will be glad enough to let
us find our way about alone.'

The way Mr. Daylesford was most anxious
that she should find was that which would take
her most quickly to her own home again. He
had never much liked this woman, and latterly,
when he had seen more of her, he had actually,
disliked her. He 'had observed how she forced
her acquaintance on Zeph, and intended to put
a stop to this persecution. But how to do it ?
Mrs. Scatcherd was the kind of person who, if
thrown out of a house by the door, would reenter
it by the window. No doubt in the end
she would have to be got rid of as such persons
often are. Daylesford would be compelled to
exert all his influence to secure good preferment
for her husband.

Do let us go and explore the house if you
have not seen it ; but I thought you had —
I thought you came here before you went
abroad,' said Mrs. Scatcherd.

No ; we did intend to do so, but we went
abroad at once.'

We must not go over it yet,' said Zeph.

My youngest sister is coming directly ; let as
wait for her.'

But there are so many things I want to
say to you alone,' pleaded Mrs. Scatcherd.
However, as I am going to spend a week here
I shall have plenty of time to talk. Besides,
here is luncheon.'

'I regret to say that we are going to
Berkhampstead tomorrow,' observed Dales
; ' my wife naturally wants to see her father
and mother.'

Mrs. Scatcherd looked dismayed. ' Tomorrow
! But that is such a very short time.
Couldn't you put it off a little longer ? ' Zeph
looked at Daylesford.

He shook his head. 'It would be very
heartless not to let them have a look at their
daughter after she has been away so long.'

Oh, they are perfectly happy with their
work among the old papers. You know their
ways well enough by this time to be sure of
that. When once they are in that Library, I

don't suppose they ever remember that they
have a daughter.'

That same thought had often occurred to
Paylesford, but now he wanted to make use of
their parental feelings to escape from a visit
that was wholly unwelcome to him.

'They really don't care to have any one
with them,' continued Mrs. Scatcherd, eagerly,
I made my way into the library where they
were at work once or twice, just to see if I
could cheer them a little, and I am almost certain
that they wished me away.'

If Mrs. Scatcherd could entertain any doubt
about Mr. Treherne wishing her away when
she had the hardihood to invade his very
sanctum, of what avail would any resistance be
to her intended visit to Ambassadors' Gate ?
Daylesford was silently considering how best to
meet this difficulty. She turned to Zeph and
said, ' Go to Berkhampstead next week. Let
us drive there together. I have often thought
I should like to drive home from London for
once. It must be very pleasant ; do let us doit

tins time. I have not taken a return
ticket.'

Oh no,' said Daylesfcrd, imperatively ; ' we
must go tomorrow. We shall be happy to
give you a bed for to-night.'

This was not what Mrs. Scatcherd intended,
but the arrival of Agnes and Jack put an end
to the discussion for a while. After luncheon
Mrs. Scatcherd insisted on going over the house
with Zeph and Agnes. Jack professed to
follow them, but was soon absorbed by a book
in the library.

Dining-room, breakfast-room, library, and
billiard-room, downstairs,' enumerated Mrs.
Scatcherd. ' It's an awfully large house for
London. Do you know the rent .^ '

Oh no,' said Zeph, who was almost shocked
at the question.

What a quantity of books there are in the
library,' said Mrs. Scatcherd. ' I often wonder
what people want with books. By the time I
have run through the daily paper and two
society weeklies I know all I care for.'

Upstairs there was a large drawing-roora
and the bedroom Zeph had already seen, and
there was a very pretty sitting-room at the
back communicating with a bedroom and .
The drawing-room met with their
highest approval. It was full of lovely things
of all kinds, but when they saw the suite of
rooms behind, all three ladies exclaimed,
'What charming rooms ! '

So homehke ! ' said Zeph.

So elegant ! ' added Mrs. Scatcherd.

So beautifully furnished ! ' murmured
Agnes. ' There is everything that any one can
possibly want.'

That was true ; there was a piano, there
were books — two lovely white bookcases quite
full of them — and there were water-colour
drawings on the wall which were a delight to
behold. Comfortable chairs and sofas were
placed in inviting corners, and on every table
were the most exquisite flowers all breathing
of the country and of Berkhampstead. Zeph's
heart filled with rapturous delight. She had

never SO much imagined such a perfect room.
She knew that Godfrey had done all that was
needed to make his house pretty to receive her,
and this was the result. The mark of his
generous heart and fine taste was set on all
before her. This was to be her own room ;
here she would sit daily. All was his gift to
her, and it was very good and beautiful. And
those books ; she knew how deficient her
education was, but she would read every one
of them for his sake. ' I shall always sit here,'
she exclaimed enthusiastically. ' I shall never
wish to be anywhere else ! It is the prettiest
room I have ever seen.'

And how nice it is to have the bedroom
opening out of it,' said Mrs. Scatcherd. ' We
have not seen that yet. It's just as pretty as
the sitting-room, and that is all there is on this
floor except the dressing-room.'

These rooms are far prettier than those I
am to have,' said Zeph. ' I like them much
better.'

They are beautiful ! ' exclaimed Agnes, in

great delight. ' Zeph, you have done well to
marry Mr. Daylesford.'

They visited each room in turn.

Those three rooms form the prettiest suite
I have ever seen,' said Mrs. Scatcherd, who
had up to this time been making her observations
in silence. ' They are quite shut off
from the rest of the house, they are charming.
So much taste has been shown in choosing the
furniture.'

It is exquisitely chosen,' said Zeph ; ' look,
Agnes.' But Agnes was not there ; she had
strayed away into the drawing-room, and was
wondering whether fate might perhaps have a
Mr. Daylesford in store for her.

I shall be so grateful to Godfrey,' said
Zeph, warmly ; ' I shall thank him so much. I
ought to do it, and I will.'

Well, my dear, I am not quite sure that if
I were you I would say much about it,' replied
Mrs. Scatcherd, who never could allow anything
to be done without giving her opinion, 'I am
not sure it is advisable.'

'Of course it is advisable said Zeph, impetuously
; ' it would be most ungrateful not.
What can you mean ? '

Well, my dear, I may as well tell you that
I think it is not at all impossible that this pretty
suite may have been furnished for some one else.
A woman's taste has been consulted, I am sure ;
perhaps it was furnished for that — that other
person.'

Zeph, whose heart had a moment before
been all aglow with affectionate thankfulness to
Daylesford for his love and kindness to her,
started back at these words as if she had been
stung. A painful blush mounted to her cheeks,
the very tips of her ears were scorched with its
strength.

Be silent ! ' she exclaimed angrily ; ' how
dare you say this to me ? If you have no sense
of what is due to yourself, I will not allow you
to forget what is due to my husband, and even
to me.'

Why, my dear Mrs. Daylesford ' said

Mrs. Scatcherd, turning to the angry girl with
an air of wonder.

Zeph flung off the hand Mrs. Scatcherd had
dared to lay on her arm, and said, ' Don't speak
to me I I won't listen to a word you say.'

Oh, but you ought not to ' she began

once more. But Zeph covered her ears with
her hands and looked at Mrs. Scatcherd with
eyes which did not fail to express even to such
an insensitive person as she was, some of the
anger her words had aroused.

Oh, I beg your pardon, I am so sorry, I

am indeed ! I had no idea ' she stammered

vaguely.

You can't have one womanly ' began

Zeph, but at this moment Agnes returned, and
both were obliged to be silent.

You may go over the rest of the house
with Mrs. Scatcherd, if you like, Agnes,* said
Zeph ; ' I am not going.'

Mrs. Scatcherd was about to speak, but
Zeph motioned her to the door, and some undefined

feeling constrained the wretched little
creature to obey Zeph's indignant gesture.

Mrs. Scatcherd had great faith in time,
and little knowledge of heart wounds for lack
of material on which to make experiments.
'Give her a little time to be alone,' thought
she, ' and she will forget all about it.' So she
went on her progress through the rooms with
Agnes, who knew Zeph's way so well that she
was certain something was very much amiss,
but could not imagine what it could be. No
sooner were they outside than Zeph shut and
bolted the door against them, and then she
struggled to a seat and burst into passionate
tears. How her fine fabric of happiness had
crumbled away beneath this woman's coarse
touch! Just a minute before Zeph had been
so happy, so grateful, so sure of Godfrey's love
and goodness, and this wretched creature had
come and with one word had destroyed all her
pleasure in life. All her joy in her home was
gone ; all her happiness with Godfrey was over.
It was hateful to be reminded of that wicked

VOL. II. s

woman of other days. Zeph had known about
her before, but somehow or other she had
all but forgotten her existence. Now Mrs.
Scatcherd had made it impossible for her to live
an hour in that house without thinking of its
former occupant. This room which was to have
been her own favourite abiding place was now
a very well-spring of poisoned thoughts. All
she saw had been devised for that other person
everything that was pretty had been bought
for her — here she had lived and moved, and
here memories of her must for ever linger.
Zeph could not control her tears — her cheeks
were blistered by them.

Agnes came to the door and knocked.

Let me in, dear,' she pleaded ; ' I am alone,
and I want so to be with you.'

I cannot. I am resting. I am not ill, but
I am very tired,' said she, doing violence to her
grief and speaking calmly, ' Go away now,
dear, and talk, to Godfrey. Don't tell him that
I say I .am tired. I am coming down very
soon'.

Agnes went, but she did not obey her sister.
She told Daylesford that she was sure Zeph was
either so tired as to be ill, or very much distressed
about something, and he stole away to
comfort her. Zeph was not familiar with the
house and did not know that there was another
way into that suite of rooms besides the door
now under her control.

My darling,' he said, full of concern, ' you
ought to have stayed another day at Dover. I
was sure we ought at the time.'

Zeph recognised in a moment that it washer
duty to bear what she was now suffering
alone. She had known about this when she
married ; how was it that she had not taken
into account all that it might lead to ? Dales
had seated himself en the sofa by her side,
his arm was round her now. She had half
turned away from him ; he was not quite the
same to her as he had been before, but it was
impossible not to feel his kindness.

Forgive me, Godfrey,' said she, ' I ams

2

foolish — strange thoughts have been coming
into my mind.'

Forgive you, dear,' he said, so kindly that
Zeph began to weep again.

'What thoughts, Zeph?' he said. 'Tell
your own husband.'

I cannot,' said she. ' Don't ask.'

Ah, how tired you are ! ' said he. ' Lie
down on the sofa and rest, and perhaps you
may sleep.' He could not believe that she was
really suffering from anything but fatigue, and
brought some rugs and covered her warmly,
and then he stooped and kissed her. ' I am
going to leave you alone,' said he. ' It is the
truest kindness.'

Yes,' she replied, for she longed for solitude.


Is there anything I can do for you ? ' he
asked, still unwilling to leave her.

Send Mrs. Scatcherd away ! ' she said.

He almost wondered at her vehemence, but
he went downstairs to try to do it. How little
did he know the lady he had to deal with ! She

was m the drawing-room, and when he entered
she said, 'I have been thinking a Httle about
plans, Mr. Daylesford ; you say that you are
both going to the Castle tomorrow ? '

Yes,' he said doubtfully, fearing an unforeseen
trap.

Then, as I came prepared to stay a week,
and have my husband's leave to do so, and so
seldom go away, couldn't I just stay on here
and do all the little things I want to do, even
if you do go to Berkhampstead .^ '

He was half inclined to smile, for this was
such a very odd arrangement for a person to
make who had, according to her own statement,
come to London solely because she could not
be absent from Zeph. Now she was ready tolet
Zeph go to Berkhampstead, and herself stay
behind.

'Yes, of course you can,' said he, 'if you
like to do it.'

This last clause was added solely for his
own amusement. She took no notice of it.
She had gained her point, and contented herself

with saying 'Thank you.' Zeph said thank
you, too, when her husband told her about it
just before dinner. She rose from her sofa
wearily. She must go downstairs and appear
to be on good terms with Mrs. Scatcherd ;
Godfrey must never know what had occurred.

THE FLUSH OF THE ALMOND BLOOM.

Fool, saide my muse to me, look in thy heart and write.'

Sir p. Sidney.

About seven miles from Axminster, on the
great North Eoad, was Seaton Court, and here
Miss Everilda Hved in lonely state. Everyone's
life is said to consist of a series of compromises,
but hers involved more than fell to
the lot of most people, and she was unfitted by
nature to carry them out successfully. Her
father, Adam Seaton, had been an ordinary
hunting, shooting, hard-riding, hard-living
country squire and magistrate, with a very
kind heart and a rather weak head. He always
followed his inclinations, but fortunately his
inclinations never led him to do much harm to
any one but himself. He was what the people

264 / THAT OTHER PERSON

around him called ' a fine, free-spoken, openhanded
gentleman, who would not let a body
come to grief for want of a pound or two to set
him up on his legs again.' Many a pound he
gave away, and all day long there was a
constant stream of people coming to the back
door to say that the squire had sent them to get
a bit of dinner, or a glass of ale, or a basketful
of garden stuff. Miss Everilda loved her father
dearly, though no day ever passed without his
inflicting a deadly wound on her tender susceptibilities.
Tobacco-smoke and the smell of
whisky and water were not an atmosphere for
the delicate plant of poetry to thrive in, and yet
that atmosphere hung about Seat on Court all
day long. The house too was overrun with great
rough dogs which often all but knocked her
down, so indiscriminating was their attachment.
Mrs. Seaton was a quietly kind woman who set
herself to help the poor in a very different way.
She admired her husband's pity for them, but
did not approve of the form it took. She often
told him that none of his dependents would

ever do any good so long as they knew that
they had only to come to him and at once find
themselves lifted out of all their difficulties by
his liberality. She tried to make them help
themselves — she set on foot clothing-clubs and
schools and things of that kind, but the triumph
of her life was the establishment of a savings
bank of which she was sole manager and clerk.
The cottagers entrusted her with their little
savings and she promised them a clear five percent,
interest; and so great was her business
ability, that she was able to keep her word
without loss to herself, and so profound their
confidence in her that this undertaking grew
larger and larger, until the fame of it spread
over all the country side, so that when the good
lady died a year or two after her husband, it
was comparatively speaking quite a large concern.
And now came a great difficulty for
Miss Everilda. She had tenderly loved both
parents, and would not for any consideration
allow her mother's good work to perish because
of her own neglect, and yet she had neither her

mother's love of it nor lier talent for management.
Miss Everilda, who would have liked to
inhabit an ideal world in which every one would
roam over sunny plains or sit in shady gardens
or groves, clad in flowing white garments composed
of the simplest materials — say for instance
a large fine white linen sheet arranged with the
soul-sufficing grace and perfection of the drapery
of a beautiful Greek statue — suddenly found
herself obliged to descend to details of the most
sordid nature, respecting calicoes which men
called unbleached, and woollen fabrics of a
coarseness altogether beyond the range of her
experience. She had to fill her mind with
knowledge of subjects for which she had no
liking — she had to carry on the work of a
savings bank and give five per cent, interest
on all deposits when she was almost incapable
of doing a sum in simple addition. She strained
every nerve to do these things well because she
respected her mother's memory too much to
abandon her undertakings, but it is needless to
say that she managed everything so ill that it

cost her a hundred times more trouble than it
had cost Mrs. Seaton, and as she had no fixed
hours for doing work of this kind, she never
had five minutes she could call her own. She
scraped through her difficulties somehow, but
she could not have done so if she had been a
poor woman.

Her filial piety was not shown to her mother
alone. All the dogs which had been such a
nuisance to her in the days of their youth and
beauty were still allowed to feel themselves at
home in the sitting-rooms at Seaton Court, even
though they were beginning to be blear-eyed
and unsightly with age. ' My father would
have liked it,' said Miss Everilda, and that was
enough for her. Her young cousin Polly's presence
was a great boon to her. She did not
believe that she could ever let Polly go back to
London again. Polly kept the savings bank
account, Polly could ' do things in fractions,'
though what advantage that might represent to
Everilda Seaton was doubtful, for she was not
the person to make any payment in fractions.

Polly could teach in the school, could send back
a woman's banking-book without sending her a
long poem by mistake, and altogether was a
most useful person to her cousin. Then Polly-drew
her forth from her ' study,' and led her
away into the green fields and pleasant lanes,
or they drove into Alnminster to hear the
glorious cathedral service, and thus the wholesome
element of change was introduced into her
life.

And to think of my having lived so many
years without knowing you, my dear,' said Miss
Everilda one morning. ' I might have had you
here years ago if I had but known you would
come. Your poor dear mother offended all the
Seatons by the way she neglected them after
her marriage. It was just as if she had shaken
them off and never wished to see any of them
again.'

She is such a good wife to father. She
sacrifices everything and every one to him.'

Yes, it is beautiful — most beautiful ! ' repeated
Miss Everilda, meditatively, ' but if all

marriages were like hers, people would think
more than twice before they gave up their freedom.
I should not like any of you dear girls
to marry and have to live in that way.'

'We should not like it either,' exclaimed
Polly. ' None of us could do it.'

I suppose not. At all events Zeph has
married very differently.'

Indeed she has. Zeph would never have
been happy with a poor man.'

Miss Everilda sighed and said, ' If she had
been very much in love with any poor man,
she would have married him.'

'Mr. John Simonds,' said a servant, appearing
most unexpectedly, and John Simonds
followed him into the room. He had got into
the way of walking over from Alnminster
sometimes on his half-holidays to see the two
ladies, and his visits were a pleasure to both of
them. Sometimes he stayed for dinner, and
Miss Everilda sent him home in her carriage.
Polly was so startled by his appearance just asher
cousin was saying something which had

such a personal application to himself, that she
could not help blushing, but no one saw her
blush but Miss Everilda, who instantly suspected
a love affair, and invoked a benediction
on their young affection. Scarcely had she exchanged
greetings with the newcomer before
she saw in her mind's eye a sheet of fair white
paper, with the first lines of a poem, in which
she likened young love to the tender flush of
the almond bloom. What was to rhyme to
bloom ? Tomb was not the right word, and
yet it would keep thrusting itself forward.
She liked ' flush of the almond bloom ' and was
resolved to find a good rhyme to it. Boom,
loom. Time's loom and the web of their sweet
fortunes might be worked in, but she must first
see if she could not get something better.
Gloom, doom. All the words seemed very
ominous and unpropitious. She was proceeding
to further researches when she suddenly
found that while her mind had been given to
this, Mr. Simonds had been talking to her, and
that' Polly had answered one speech for her

and was now answering another. Then she
heard her ask a question, to which the neglected
guest replied : —

No, I am afraid that there is no chance of
a reprieve, and I don't think he will try to save
himself by accusing the two others.'

The Assizes were going on in Alnminster,
and there was a very heavy calendar. During
the last two days a murder case had occupied
much attention. There was not much evidence,
for the crime had been committed in a lonely
house in the country. The accused had
solemnly protested his innocence. The facts
of the case had however been very much
against him, fatally so indeed, unless he could
bring home the guilt to some other person ;
this he had made no endeavour to do, and he
had been condemned to death. Public feeling
was much stirred, for a very large section
believed that he could have done this with
complete success, but had refrained, for the
persons whom he would have had to accuse were
his own wife and her brother. The prisoner

bore a good character ; the wife's character
seemed to be less good, and her brother's was
so bad that he could get no work at home and
was about to emigrate. The brother and sister
had avowedly been on the spot a great part
of the time, and had even taken part in the
beginning of the struggle with much enjoyment,
but they said that they had retired from it at
a certain point, and they left it to be inferred
that the prisoner had not done so until he had
committed the crime. The evidence of a
passer-by had seemed to corroborate this, and
yet a very considerable portion of the public
refused to believe it, and regarded the woman
and her brother as the true criminals. Their
manner, and much that they said in evidence,
had seemed to favour this belief, nevertheless
the accused had been condemned. Would he
speak, or would he take upon himself the guilt
of others and die in silence ?

Whatever he does, it is dreadful ! ' said
Polly, shuddering.

Still the person who committed the murder

is the one who ou<^ht to die,' said Miss Everilda,
with a very unusual appreciation of the logical
bearings of the question.

It is so terrible to take the life of any one,'
said Polly. ' What a state he must be in, and
the judge and the barristers must be miserable
too.'

Possibly they may be, but they have no
time to indulge in feelings of that kind. They
are in the court all day, and dine out every
evening. Alnminster may not be a hospitable
place, but it never fails to entertain the judges
and barristers magnificently. People must
dine, but I do wish they would not have balls
on these occasions,' remarked Mr. Simonds.

Ah ! you are thinking of the Sheriff's ball
in the beginning of next week ? ' said Miss
Everilda.

Yes, and it is to be held in the Town Hall
this time, and that wretched man in the condemned
cell will be almost within hearing of
the carriages and music'

Not really ? ' asked Miss Everilda, with a

VOL. II. T

shudder, and then she looked distressfully at
Polly. Polly had been straining every nerve
to get a really pretty fancy dress to wear at
that ball, which was one given by the High
Sheriff to the town and county. ' It does seem
unfeeling to dance at such a time ! ' said the
elder lady, thoughtfully. ' I don't wonder that
you disapprove of it, Mr. Simonds.'

Oh, I don't want to express such a very
strong opinion as that,' he answered. ' A gay
ball-room is a terribly strong contrast to the
interior of a condemned cell, and the two things
will lie near together, that's all.'

That is a great deal,' said Miss Everilda ;
the contrast is awful. And yet, think what
you will of us, Mr. Simonds, my dear little
cousin and I were intending to go ; but I am
not sure that we can do it now that you have
made us realise what it would be.'

Polly sighed. She had so wished to go.
She had never been to a costume-ball, never
been to a good ball of any kind, and as Zeph
had promised to send her a pretty dress from

the Castle, it seemed as easy to go as delightful.
Was she about to be deprived of this great
pleasure ? She was very sorry about that poor
man in the prison, but a ball is always a ball.
She looked at Miss Everilda. Miss Everilda
was evidently thinking. At last she said,
Mary, my love, I don't believe I can go.'

John watched Polly's anxious face, and
wished he had held his tongue. What was he
that he should prescribe to others what they
should feel ? He wished he had not been so
stupid. ' I entreat you not to let anything that
I have said make you change your mind,' said
he, in great dismay. ' I would not for the
world be the means of losing Miss Polly this
pleasure. Why should she not dance ? I
spoke without much thought ; after all, this man
had no objection to go a great part of the way
in the direction of murder, he admitted that he
had a struggle with the unfortunate victim, and
perhaps he actually was the murderer ; the
world cannot stand still because a murderer
meets with his deserts.'

T 2

'Mr. Simmonds, you are not saying quite
what you think. If we do take a wretched
criminal's Hfe we should do it in sadness and
sorrow, his crime points to some fault in us or
our ancestors. Besides, if I did go I should be
haunted by the thought of that cell. Dancing
would seem miserably out of place. You agree
with me, Mary, don't you, dear ? '

Polly looked very grave. A great joy
was surely slipping away from her, and she
knew it.

I cannot say I do not wish to go to the
ball, cousin,' she replied, ' I am afraid I do ;
but I will give it up cheerfully if you wish it.'
And Polly looked anxiously in Miss Everilda's
face, waiting for her fate.

I do, dear. I am not the kind of person
who could go to a ball with any pleasure under
such circumstances, and I '

If you please, ma'am, Jonathan Graham
is at the door, and he says that generally about
this time you do a little for him,' said a servant
who had come in almost unheard.

What does lie want doing for him,
Robert ? ' asked Miss Everilda.

Please, ma'am, he will leave it to you, I
think,' said Eobert.

'Then take him five shillings,' said Miss
Everilda ; ' that's what my dear father always
used to give him. Is that not the best thing
I can do, Mr. Simonds ? '

John took a bold resolution.

If you ask me,' said he, ' I really think it
would be better to see him and learn what it
will be best to do for him. It is seldom good
to give money.'

Isn't it ? And I do seem to give so
much.'

He was very anxious to have a word or two
with Polly, and wanted Miss Everilda to leave
them alone awhile. Miss Everilda slowly left
the room, taking the precaution to have five
shillings ready in her pocket, for she knew
that it would end in her having to give it, however
prudently she might resolve to act.

My dear Polly,' said John Simonds, hastily.

will you ever forgive me for what I have
done ? I am so sorry. I had not the least
idea that Miss Everilda would take any of my
words to heart and act on them so promptly.'

It is disappointing,' said Polly, making no
effort to hide her feelings. ' Perhaps I ought
not to wish to go. There is a great deal of
truth in what you said.'

I ought to have been wise enough to hold
my tongue.'

No, not if you felt strongly on the point.'

I did — I do ; but I cannot bear to think
that I have lost you a pleasure. But have you
really lost it? I will speak to Miss Everilda.'

You had better not. Besides, after what
you have said, perhaps I should feel that I was
doing something wrong.'

Oh, no. I must speak to her — I will.'

But don't urge it if she seems to have
made up her mind to stay away. I should not
like you to do that, for she feels strongly when
she does take up an idea.'

But you ^ ' said he, inquiringly.

I ? Oh, I am not to be pitied. You don't
know how kind she is to me.'

Miss Everilda soon returned.

I have had to give him ten shillings, poor
fellow,' she exclaimed cheerily. 'He did not
seem to think he could make five do this time.'

Then there was a short silence. John was
wondering how best to prefer his request, and
Polly waiting to hear it, but not in hope, for
she knew that Miss Everilda would not go to
the ball when once her feelings had been
enlisted in favour of an opposite course. John
was very much pleased with the way in which
Polly had behaved. It was so entirely honest.
She made no pretence of professing fine feelings
if they were absent from her mind. She
frankly said she should very much like to go,
but was prepared to submit quietly if Miss
Everilda persisted in staying away. He made
an attempt to undo what he had done, but all
in vain. A matter of sentiment was with Miss
Everilda a matter of principle, and she could
not be moved.

'After Mary's disappointment, my only
regret is that I shall not see that dress,' she
said, for she knew nothing of John's attachment
to her other cousin. ' I should have liked to
see her wear it. You don't know about that
dress, Mr. Simonds, but I will tell you.'

Oh, don't tell about it now,' said Polly,
anxiously. ' I beg you not.'

Oh yes, I must. Of course you know all
about my eldest cousin ? '

Tell it another time,' pleaded Polly, not
knowing how to spare John the hearing of
what would trouble him so much.

I will tell it now, dear ; why not .^ Mr.
Simonds, I was going to say that of course you
know all about my niece Josephine's marriage.
She has married a man who is perfectly
delightful, and he is the handsomest man I ever
saw.'

John did not seem to be warmly interested,
but there was no stopping Miss Everilda. She
would tell all about Phillis Arnold, and how
Zeph had worn the very dress that Sir Joshua

had painted her in, and Mr. Daylesford had
fallen in love with her there and then, and she
had promised to lend her sister that self-same
dress for the High Sheriff's ball.

John listened calmly. Polly looked at him
from time to time and marvelled at it. Then
he said, ' Miss Everilda, such a good idea has
come into my head.'

For a poem ? ' Miss Everilda asked
eagerly.

Oh no, for a ball. You have beautiful
rooms, do give one here — a fancy-dress ball,
and let me come and see Miss Polly in the
dress you have just told me about.'

Polly drew a long breath of joy. Joy
because of the chance of this ball, and also
because John seemed able to hear about Zeph
without so much anguish as of old. He had
indeed shown no sign of anguish at all, and he
was even willing to see that dress.

I'll think about it,' said Miss Everilda ;
and then Polly knew that the thing was done.

You had better write by this post to tell

Zeph you don't want her to send the dress yet,'
said Miss Everilda. ' Even if I did give a ball
here, we had better not have it sent till just
before the time when it is wanted. It is a very
handsome dress, trimmed with valuable pearls,
and it is always kept at Berkhampstead Castle,'
she added, turning to John to explain her
anxiety.

Polly did so wish her cousin would leave
Zeph, and the Daylesford jewels, and Berk-hampstead
Castle, and all that Zeph had sold
herself for, out of her conversation when John
was present. Secrecy as to love affairs maybe
commendable, but it often causes pain and
embarrassment.

Miss Everilda was never left in peace for
long. Eobert reappeared. ' If you please,
ma'am, Widow Jackson's youngest boy has
come running to say that the old linen has
never got there, and that the doctor was very
particular about the bandage being changed today.
And please, ma'am, he says that the
doctor did go on so last time because it had

not stayed on well, and he said it ought to be a
figure-freight bandage.'

Miss Everilda put her hands to her ears and
said impatiently, ' These people are the plague
of my life ! What is a figure-freight bandage ?
It is no use coming to me, Eobert, about such
things as that. I never did understand figures,
and I never shall.'

I'll go to the Jacksons', cousin ; it is nota
mile off. Let me go and see what they mean,
and then I can try to do it, and I can take the
old linen at the same time,' said Polly.

Oh, will you really ? ' ejaculated Miss
Everilda, much relieved ' I shall be so much
obliged to you, dear. I'll tell you what I
will do, daring ; if you will do this for me I'll
write to Zeph about the dress for you, and then
I will take a large sheet of paper and make a
list of all the nice people I know. I will not
have any who are not nice. And then we will
write and ask them to our ball.'

And I will walk to the Jacksons' with
you, Polly, if you will allow me ? ' said John.

Thank you,' she replied ; and they went.

And now I hope you will forgive me,'
said he. 'Your cousin will give a delightful
ball, and when we go back we will both set to
work to write the invitations from her hist.'

My dear John,' exclaimed Polly, ' how
little you know my cousin. When we go back
she will have made no list. Do you think if
she has a large sheet of blank paper spread
before her, she will write anything on it but a
poem ? '

CHAPTEE XXIV.

PARIS Borne.

Mess. But yet, madam.

Leo. I do not like but yet, it does alloy

The good precedence, fie upon but yet. — Antony and Cleopatra.

Fair and of all beloved, I was not fearful

Bluntly to give my life into your hand,

And at one hazard all my earthly means. — Heywood.

May, June, and a large part of July had come
and gone, and Zeph was gradually becoming
part of the great world. The men whom her
husband had always known brought their
mothers, wives, and sisters to call on their
friend's wife — he had ' ranged ' himself, and.
the past was buried deep and well. At one
time Zeph had told herself that she should
never be happy in that house now that she had
been brought face to face with its former
history ; and for days and even weeks she had

gone about looking outwardly calm and contented,
but with a heart full of scornful bitterness.
Latterly she had attained to a quiet
feeling of resignation — such wicked things were
Godfrey was no worse than many others;
he loved her truly now, and was not likely to
change. He was very good and kind, and had
shared all he had with her. She knew that
she did not love him as he loved her — that she
had always known ; but she felt very grateful
and affectionate to him, and believed that, as
time passed by, this feeling would, if anything,
strengthen. Meantime the life she lived was
entirely to her taste. It was a life of gay and
pleasant luncheons and dinners, balls, theatres,
and concerts. She need never spend an evening
at home unless she wished. Her husband
made her a liberal allowance, and she knew
that if she exceeded it he would not complain.
She indulged therefore freely in her taste for
pretty dresses, and was admired wherever she
went. Sometimes she said, ' Is not this a sweet
dress, Godfrey ? '

Ah, my darling,' he replied, ' it is pretty ;
but you looked just as charming in the simple
little dresses you wore when I first knew you.'
Oh, they were terrible ! ' said she, feeling
a pang at the very recollection of them.
What a dreadful time that was ! I never had
anything I wanted.'

Say that you are happier with me,' pleaded
Daylesford. She was not demonstrative enough
for him, and he often longed to hear some
spontaneous expression of affection from her.

Happy ! Of course I am happy,' she
answered on one of these occasions ; ' I am
leading just the life I like best.'

But would you be happy with me if we
were poor and living in a little cottage in the
country ? I should be happy anywhere ; but
would you ? '

Oh, don't talk about things that are never
likely to happen,' she answered evasively. ' I
am afraid I should want some dancing even
in the country, and what should I do when I
wanted a new dress ? '

Daylesford was so honest and straightforward,
and so in love with her, that though he
would have liked a loving declaration that she
could be happy anywhere so long as he was
with her, he never doubted her affection.
You would have to rely on my ingenuity to
help you,' said he ; ' I once did find a dress for
you

You did ; and by the way, Godfrey dear,
I have promised it to Polly. She is to stay a
fortnight longer at Seaton Court with my cousin
Everilda, to go to a costume-ball at Alnminster.
The High Sheriff is going to give it to the
judges, or the judges are going to give it in
honour of the High Sheriff, I forget which way
it is, but it is no matter, only poor Polly had
not an idea what to wear till I said she might
have that old dress I wore — the loan of it, I
mean.'

Daylesford looked perplexed. ' I wish
said he, and stopped.

You wish what, dear ? Let me hear what
it is.'

'I wish you had not said that your sister
might have that dress — I don't think she can
have it. It is not mine. It is part and parcel
of the heirlooms at Berkhampstead, and it
cannot be worn to look well without the lace
and jewels belonging to it. Those things are
all Marmaduke's, and though I did not mind
your wearing them when you were staying in
the house, I cannot consent to bring them away
and send them to Alnminster. It would seem
as if I looked on them as my own ; if you were
joiner to wear them it would be different.'

Let it be different as it is. You can easily
give the order to Mrs. Sanderson to let us have
them as you did before.'

Of course I can ; but do forgive me if I say
I don't like to do it.'

I am sure Marmaduke would not mind.'

I know he would not, but I do. The
circumstances of the case oblige me to be so
much more particular. Go to your dressmaker
or to a costumier, and order Polly the
prettiest dress you can design — it shall be my

VOL. II. U

present to her. I should like to make her a
present.'

Zeph was dissatisfied. ' It is immensely
kind of you, dear, but when you have a dress
already which is just the very thing, why not
let her wear it and save all trouble and
expense ? '

But I haven't a dress ! ' said Daylesford.
My dear Zeph, it seems a trifle to you to
borrow it, and it is a trifle ; but I do want to
be very scrupulous in all my dealings with
Marmaduke's property.'

I will write and tell him about it,' said
Zeph ; ' and suppose I ask him to give me leave
to use one of the family dresses sometimes if I
want one for a ball ? '

You must do nothing of the kind, Zeph ;
it would only remind him of a thoroughly
disagreeable and painful subject. He would
write back and say that I have more right to
settle what is to be done with everything at
the Castle than he, and that in any case he
will hand over all the dresses and jewels to

you. Dear Zeph, leave things at the Castle
alone. I understand Marmaduke better than
you do. You would pain him terribly.'

I don't want to pain him or you either.'

'Of course you don't. Go and get the
people who understand these things to make
your sister a beautiful dress. I will go with
you, and then I shall see that you order a
handsome one. Stop, I have an idea. Polly
is a good-looking girl ; go to the National
Gallery and choose a dress from one of the
pictures, and then tell your dressmaker to make
one like it. I'd have a Paris Bordone if I were
you.'

But I don't think we should have time for
that. There would be so much writing backwards
and forwards before everything was
settled, that the dress would never reach Polly
in time.'

Don't write backwards and forwards ; go
and see about it yourself.'

Go to Paris ! ' said Zeph, aghast at the
idea.

u 2

My dearest Zeph ' began Daylesford,

in a tone of suppressed amusement, but he was
afraid she would be humiliated if he pointed
out her mistake.

What is it ? ' she inquired ; ' you did say
Paris.'

Yes, Paris Bordone, that's the name of a
painter. Let us go and see if you like that
picture of his I am thinking of as much as I
do. It is a portrait of a Genoese lady in a
magnificent crimson dress. Her hair is just
like Polly's, and I am sure Polly would look
well in her dress.'

'I am very ignorant, I fear,' said Zeph,
humbly.

He began to fear it too. Books such as it
would have been well for her to read had not
formed part of her father's library. Dales
resolved to devote himself to making her
familiar with the subjects which no woman's
mind should be without. That very morning
he would take her to the National Gallery, and
when they passed a bookseller's shop he would

alight and buy her a copy of Browning's
Poems.' Some one had lately asked her in
his hearing if she did not think Browning's
'Men and Women' very fine, and she had
inquu-ed where they were to be seen? Finally
she had been obliged to own that
she had never heard either of the poet or the
poems.

Come,' said Daylesford, ' let us go.'

My dear Godfrey,' she replied, ' I am so
sorry about this. I am giving you such a great
deal of trouble.'

No, I like going to the National Gallery,
and even if I didn't, I should like going with
you.'

He got out and bought her the Poems on
the way, but when he gave them to her she
said, ' You need not have bought those books,
dear ; they are in the house already in one of
the bookcases upstairs.'

He actually blushed. ' I forget what there
is in those bookcases,' said he.

She looked sorrowfully in his face, for she

was afraid she knew why he never stopped to
look at those books.

They chose the picture he had in his mind
the yellow-haired lady with the rich crimson
dress. ' We must send your sister a photograph
of it, and then she will know how she
ought to look,' said Daylesford.

Thank you ; you think of everything,' said
Zeph. ' My dressmaker can make a dress like
that quite easily, and Polly will look very well
in it. Now let us go.'

Go ! ' he repeated ; ' not yet. Wait a
minute or two longer. I don't suppose you
have been often here.' He was shocked with
himself for having said this ; the thought had
passed through his mind, but the words had
escaped him unawares.

It did not seem to strike her as one of
those things which are best left unsaid. She
answered quite calmly, ' I ? Oh, hardly ever.
In fact, I believe, only once.'

But, my darling, you ought to know these
pictures well. Some of them are magnificent.

We have one of the finest galleries in Europe.
It is a delight to see such pictures as these.
You feel that, I am sure, but if you didn't I
should still have to make you study them. It
is absolutely necessary to do so as a part of
education. You can scarcely spend an evening
in the society of people of any cultivation without
being tripped up by your ignorance if you
are not familiar with them.' They walked
slowly round some of the rooms, Daylesford,
who had a genuine love of art, pointing out
picture after picture for her admiration as they
went. She was meantime secretly meditating
on the fact that after all she was by no means
so well equipped for society as she had believed
herself to be. Something more was wanted
than youth, beauty, good means, liveliness of
manner, and fair wits. More than once lately
she had been convicted of gross ignorance on
points on which it was vital to be well informed.
If she had made that lamentable blunder about
Paris Bordone, in society, society would have
mocked her ; it would have been whispered

about as a good joke whenever she was seen or
named, and whithersoever she went she would
have been conscious of a tell-tale twinkle in the
eyes of people around her which would reveal
the fact that they knew and enjoyed a good
story against her. How dreadful ! And then
if she said more things of this kind, Godfrey
would at last be disgraced by having a wife
whom it seemed legitimate to point out as the
maker of all the malaprop and blunders that
float about on the surface of society's small-talk
and constitute so much of its joy. ' Very
beautiful, dear, very finely painted, I should
imagine,' she said with her tongue, but her
mind was entirely given to these thoughts. How
many of these ignorant and laughable speeches
had she already made without being aware of
them ? Perhaps she was already beginning to
be regarded as a person destined to afford
society a liberal share of amusement. Godfrey
had witnessed her want of knowledge when a
great living poet and his works had been
named, and that was why he had bought her

those books. He had just told her that she
would be considered woefully ill-educated if
she did not make herself acquainted with thereat
pictures in this Gallery, and now he was
labouring hard to drive some knowledge of
them into her head. ' It is wonderfully fine,
dear,' she always said when he bade her admire
one, but with so many important things to
think about as she had, she could not give him
her full attention. Did that other person know
all these pictures by heart ? Was she thoroughly
familiar with all that was good in
literature and art ? Was she, perhaps, wicked
though she was, well-educated and intellectual,
and therefore, so far as companionship was concerned,
superior to Zeph herself? Zeph felt
her heartstrings tightening as this thought came
to torment her, but she did not, could not, and
would not believe it.

Where does one get to know all about
these painters?' said she, after a determined
effort to profit by her opportunities and enjoy
his guidance round the rooms. He named some

books, but told her that the pictures themselves
were the things to study ^ not the lives of the
painters or what men wrote about them and
their work ; that people could find out far more
about a painter's character from his work than
in any amount of books.

Godfrey,' said Zeph once more, ' I never
knew how very little I had learnt or been
taught till I got to know you. Will you make
me learn things and teach me as much as you
can ? It would be a dreadful thing if ever you
were ashamed of me

I am ashamed of you now,' said he, tenderly.
' How can you say such a thing as that
in a public place like this, when you know that
I can't take you to my heart and tell you that
you are my own, and that I shall never have
any feeling for you but true love ? '

Zeph raised her dewy eyes from the floor
and looked comforted and pleased, and she did
not attempt to hurry him away from the pictures,
though she was longing to get to her
dressmaker's. That pleasure was hers in time,

and Daylesford went with her, and between
them they chose a really beautiful dress for
Polly, and then Daylesford was dropped at his
club and Zeph went home. As soon as she
was alone she fell a-thinking of the alarming
discovery she had made of her want of education.
She had never before known that education
was of so much importance. She had
already been mortified to see how much her
husband had felt her deficiency. He always
looked so surprised when she did not seem to
know things. Had he always been acquainted
with women who were thoroughly on a level
with his expectations ? Had that other person
whose name she had never heard, but who now
occupied more of her thoughts than she liked,
been more fitted for society than she herself
was? Such an idea was inconceivably bitter
to Zeph — to know that it was true would cut
her to the heart.

Some fascination of which she could render
no account made her at once go upstairs to
that lovely sitting-room which as yet she had

never been able to use as her own. It seemed
intended for her, but she had never been able
to feel happy in it, and she had remarked that
Tier husband had never once said, ' Why don't
you sometimes sit in that room upstairs ? ' Today
she went to it without pausing for a
moment, and at once began to examine the
books. First she carefully read their titles. If
her knowledge of such matters had not been so
limited, she would have seen that all the
greatest poets of England, France, and Germany
were represented on those shelves, and that
most of the masterpieces of English prose
literature had found a place in the second
white bookcase. Zeph thought that some of
these masterpieces must be very dull if their
titles were to be trusted, but for the present
left that point undetermined. What she next
did was to take out each book, one after the
other, to see if any name — any woman's name.
were written on the blank pages. Her reason
told her that it was impossible that this should
be the case, that Godfrey himself would have

seen to the removal of anything that might give
her pain, but in spite of reason she had a
haunting dread of what she might perchance
discover. Her task was a long one, but no
such name appeared. Once or twice she found
Daylesford's — never any other — and the sense
of relief she experienced was immense. Then
she went to the writing-table and opened all
the drawers. There were a number of them,
but all were empty ; there was not a bit of
ribbon, a scrap of paper, or anything. All were
daintily lined with clean white paper and ready
to receive anything that she herself chose to put
into them. Whatsoever this room had once
held that had belonged to another was to all appearance
gone ; it was now swept and garnished
for herself. Could she bring herself to use
it ? It only required one plunge and the thing
would be done. Why should she not occupy
it ? Why should any sentiment either of regret
or repugnance be allowed to cling for ever
about this one room ? She went into her own
room and brought some embroidery she was

busy with, and spread it out and scattered her
silks about on one of the tables. She cut open
the books Godfrey had just given her, and left
them lying on the sofa : then she went to the
bookcase to seek a book, for she was going to
work in earnest, she was about to try to cultivate
the waste and desolate places of her mind. It
was a gigantic task, and the sooner she took it in
hand the better. She found a French book ;
French had of late often been her despair.
She could read easy conversations, or thought
she could, for the difficulties in French are so
subtle that they usually evade the sight of
ignorant persons, but a bit of description was
to her an impenetrable jungle. She began to
read with a firm purpose of looking out in the
dictionary every word that she did not know ;
Godfrey should not be ashamed of her, she
would not be ashamed of herself. She had
never done any work of this kind, and found
it very irksome, but she performed her task
for nearly an hour with complete fidelity.
Then she began to wish that Godfrey would

return home, or some one amusing come to call.
Why did not Agnes come more frequently, and
she wanted to see Jack? While she was
wondering if she had time to go and see them,
a letter was brought to her. It was from Miss
Everilda. ' I write, my dear Zeph, to ask you
not to send the dress. Mary and I have given
up all idea of attending the High Sheriff's ball.
I am ashamed I ever had such an idea. It is
strange what even high-minded women will do
if they look at things one-widely. We looked
at this on the side of our amusement, but a
dear young friend who often spends some of his

leisure hours with us ' ' Ris leisure,' thought

Zeph with a weight of lead on her heart already,

and hours too ! ' ' has persuaded us not to

go. He wants me to give a fancy-dress ball at
Seaton Court, to make up to your sister for this
disappointment. I am afraid she is disappointed,
though she has taken it so sweetly, dear girl.
1 think I shall adopt his suggestion. I like
doing what he wishes, and besides that I think
I should enjoy seeing this handsome old house

looking once more like itself. Therefore, dear
Zeph, though I ask you not to send the dress
now, please send it a little later, for I should
dearly like to see Mary wear it in my house.
And now I must say good-bye, for they have
gone for a long walk together, and I want to
have my Hst of the people who ought to be invited,
ready for them when they come back. I
believe you knew something of Mr. Simonds
before you were married, at least I think he
told me about an hour ago that he had some
acquaintance with you, but I will ask him again.
Yours ever, Everilda.'

Zeph folded her hands and laid her head
down on the table on them. She had never
thought of this happening. Why should Polly,
who was young, handsome, and free — why
should Polly, who had the whole world before
her to choose from, choose this one man ?
Zeph had sometimes thought it would be an
almost unbearable pain to her if he married
any one, but if he married her own sister it
would be a thousand times worse. And yet he

had a right to marry any one he chose ; the tie
between herself and him was broken. The
worst of it was that she had never quite felt
that it was broken — stupid, irrational, wicked,
mad, let any one call it what they chose — so
honos as he was unmarried he still seemed to
belong to her more than to any one, and she
could sometimes even think of him with a quiet
regard and love in which as she believed there
was no sin. If he married Polly she must
never think of him in that way again ; she
must never see him, of course. She had,
however, never intended to see him again.
She could live as she was living now with
Daylesford in the bonds of quiet affection, and
could go on living with him for ever happily
enough, if John did but keep out of her way.
She did not believe she should ever be able to
meet him unmoved. Even if she never saw
him till she was quite an old woman she feared
that her heart would blaze up with love for the
man whom she had treated so ill. No tear
passed the barrier of her eyelids — tears were

VOL. II. X

impossible ; the heart wound she was suffering
from lay far too deep down for any tears to
rise to her eyes — far too deep for her to visit it
save on very rare occasions. She sat where
she was for more than an hour, and was roused
at last by a kind hand on her shoulder.

Why, Zeph, my darling, what are you
doing P ' Daylesford was the speaker. He
saw the French book and the open dictionary,
but he almost thought his wife had been asleep.
Were you asleep ? Have I disturbed you ? '

Zeph raised her head, which really did look
half stupefied with sleep, and said, ' Asleep, oh
no, I don't think I have been asleep ; I am
sure I have not.'

Of course you have,' said he ; 'you would
not deny it so fervently if you had not. Let
me have a look at you.' He had not seen the
face he loved so much for some hours.

She looked up, but could not meet his eyes :
they were full of such honest, generous, and
true affection, that she shrank away from the
sight of them — she was so utterly unworthy of

it. He was too good himself to suspect any
shortcoming, not to mention disloyalty, in anyone
without absolute proof, much less in her.
He had no conception what thoughts had been
passing through her mind, and only said, ' I
wish I had let you sleep a little longer, dear.'

His kindness touched her to the heart — it
always had done so. Never must she give way
to such thoughts again ; it was foolish, it was
wicked, it was treacherous in the highest degree
to him whom she had vowed to love, and
whom, please God, she would end by loving — if
she did not, it should not be for want of trying.
Not for worlds would she ever let Godfrey suspect
any part of what had been passing through
her mind while she had been alone. ' I have
had a tiring day,' said she. ' To begin with,
we went out, you know, and then after I came
home I did all kinds of things before I sat
down to read some French.'

French ! ' he exclaimed ; he had never
seen her open a French book since they were
married.

Godfrey,' she said, very humbly, ' I am so
anxious to improve myself a little, I can't bear
being so ignorant as I am. I have been trying
to learn a little by myself, but I think you
must let me have some lessons.' ^

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-STREET SQUARE

LONDON

^ y/;^/ ,^u ^

THAT OTHER PERSON

^ towel

BY

MRS ALFRED HUNT

AUTHOR OF 'tHORNICROFT's MODEL ' ' THE LEADEN CASKET* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

|roitb0n

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right of translation is reserved]

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

-^ CHAPTER PAGE

,^J XXV. ' WHOSE WORDS AEE TOU QUOTING ? ' . . .1

^ XXVI. 'but TOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN ENJOYING A

MYSTERY too!'



XXVII. ' I HAVE A VERY PARTICULAR REASON ' . .50

XXVIII. 'it IS A BAD BUSINESS ' 78

XXIX, THE STUDIO 105

XXX. THE Olive-green CAP 130

XXXI. 'have your way' 156

XXXII. SOMETHING HAS GONE WRONG , . . . 174

XXXIII. A MOST STRANGE LIKENESS 202

XXXIV. 'l WAS NOT WORTHY — SHE WAS ' . . . . 229
XXXV. IT IS A THING ON WHICH I HAVE SET MY HEART 256

XXXVI. GOOD NEWS FOR YOU. DEAR ZEPH . . . . 288

CHAPTEE XXV.

'WHOSE WORDS ARE YOU QUOTING?'

She, like a moon in wane,
Faded before Mm, cowered ; nor could restrain
Her fearful sobs, self-folding like a flower
That sinks into itself at evening hour. — Keats.

After a while it occurred to Zeph that her
husband was dull — that he was bored by the
want of some interest beyond that of the daily
routine of gaiety and the petty amount of business
that falls to the lot of a man who has what
is called nothing to do. But ought he not to
have something to do ? He was almost the
only man she knew who was not living in a
whirl of occupation from which it seemed
almost impossible to rescue five minutes except

VOL. III. B

at stated times. ' Godfrey,' she said one morning,
' I wonder why you don't go into Parliament.
Wouldn't you like to do so ? '

Of course I should. There is nothing I
should like better.'

Then why not do it ? ' inquired Zeph.

Dear Zeph, you surely know why I cannot.
You know how strangely I am situated.
I can only go as a peer, and of course I won't
do that.'

Zeph sighed, and said, ' What a pity ! It
is a life that would suit you exactly ! How
vexing to have to give it up.'

'It is no use thinking about it,' said he.
It cannot be helped.'

I suppose not,' said Zeph ; ' you seem to
be always giving up things ! But you have
many resources ; if you had not, I should pity
you for having to spend so much time with me.
I am a very poor companion for a man like you.'

That, of course, he would not allow her to
say. Then she asked him what he had done in
the mornings before she came.

I used to try to do some water-colour
work,' said lie, with a backward glance of
memory at those happy mornings with Hester.

Then why cannot you do that now ? I
wish I could. I am so fond of water-colours.
I do wish you would let me see some of yours.'

With a curious sense of disinterring a portion
of life that had long been dead and buried,
he brought a folio and put it on a chair before
her. She slowly turned over the sketches,
making much havoc of the pronunciation of
certain names of foreign places. He, too,
looked over her shoulder at them for sometime
; but the sight became painful to him, for
he had never forgiven himself for his ill-treatment
of poor Hester.

Don't turn away from them, dear,' said
Zeph, ' I do so want you to tell me the names
of the places. You need not pretend to be
ashamed of the pictures, for they are very
good.'

He came back to the folio, but his thoughts
were with the girl whom he had brought away

from the mountains to make miserable. Was
she now supporting herself by painting ? She
had gratefully, but absolutely, refused to accepta
penny from him, when he had, through
Mr. Blackmore and Dr. Simonds, offered hera
liberal income. Her refusal had added a
deeper regret to his memory of her, for at
least it would have been a comfort to him to
know that she was well off. The sketches he
was now turning over for Zeph reminded him
of so many circumstances which had taken
place while they were being painted — so many
acts of loving kindness and unselfish devotion,
that he soon ceased to be aware of what he was
supposed to be doing, and forgot to turn to a
new sketch. He hoped that Hester was selling
her drawings and feeling no touch of poverty.
The idea that such a thing was possible was
exceedingly bitter to him. He had more than
once looked in at Winthrop's and at other
dealers' exhibitions, but had never ^^^tu. a
drawing by Miss Langdale. Where could she
have found a shelter ? He did not know how

long this fit of abstraction had lasted. Zephyrs
wondering what could have caused it. She
had for some time been glancing furtively at
him, and she could not fail to see that his eyes
were dull, troubled, and full of regret, and his
mind evidently full of sadness. She had heard
him sigh more than once, and had no difficulty
in arriving at the conclusion that the sight of
these sketches stirred up recollections and
emotions that were painful. What right had
they to be so painful, was her indignant
thought ? Shame she expected him to feel, but
not regret.

Godfrey,' she said with some resentment,
you don't like looking at these old things ! '

No,' he replied, rousing himself with an
effort, ' I don't think I do.'

Tell me why,' said she.

She looked in his face as she spoke — he in
hers. The eyes of both fell almost instantly —
neither of them could sustain the gaze of the
other. The eyes of each would reveal to the
other thoughts and feelings that were to be

concealed. Zeph's betrayed a knowledge of
something that made her angry and unhappy
his, a deep and abiding regret. He tried to
answer her question lightly, and said,

'They all look so awfully bad when I see
them again ! '

Oh, no, Godfrey, don't say that — you can't
mean it.'

I do ; and besides, no one ever does like
to see things done long ago — there is always
something melancholy about it.'

But why ? ' persisted Zeph.

Oh, circumstances have changed ; people
have changed ; you yourself have changed —
everything is different.'

But if everything is better ? '

Everything is not always better ; it is
sometimes quite the other way.'

He had not said this with any personal
meaning, but was only speaking generally.
She chose to take it as expressing his sense of
her own inferiority to that other person, and
was deeply hurt and offended.

Don't let us think of looking at them,' said
she, in a voice that sounded somewhat angry, but
showed a very small part of the vexation she felt.

Oh, why not go on ? ' he exclaimed, determined
to conquer his feelings. And he had
his way, and persisted in showing the sketches
to the end. They were principally of foreign
places, and Zeph recognised many as towns
which Godfrey had found reasons for not visiting
when they were abroad together, though
she had wished to see them. Now she began
to think she knew the reason why he avoided
them, and was almost as absent as her husband
had been a while before. She was brooding
over what she was pleased to call her wrongs.
That person who had been with him when he
made those sketches still occupied his thoughts
recollections of her were intimately associated
with them. No doubt she had been able to
sketch, too. They had spent happy quiet days
beneath the walls of old grey towns and towers
set up on high on rocks and mountain-sides —
they had wandered here and there. She had

been able to share his work and his pleasure,
and to speak French and perhaps German and
Italian, and to read all the learned books upstairs,
and to talk to him in an educated way,
which amused and interested him, while she,
his wife, was dull and ignorant, and could do
nothing but bore him, and say things that made
him ashamed of her.

What is the matter, Zeph ? ' said Dales
in his turn. ' How very silent you have
suddenly become ! '

I am thinking,' she replied in a voice that
was not very sweet.

Of what ? ' he inquired. But she would
vouchsafe no explanation. She pretended not to
hear, but to be absorbed in the contemplation of
the castle of Bracciano. It was the last sketch in
the folio — the last Daylesford had ever touched.
Well he remembered doing it, and as he looked
at it now he felt the sharp sting of conscience.

You did not make any sketches when you
were abroad with me ? ' said Zeph, more sadly
than reproachfully.

Her words startled him, and for an instant
he looked almost suspiciously in her face, for
her words had seemed to betoken a contrast
between what he had done when abroad with
her and what he had done when with some one
else. She preserved an equable demeanour;
there was nothing to be learned by looking at
her. He made up his mind that there was
nothing to learn, and that she was only expressing
a regret.

'Next time we go I will. I wish you
sketched too ; take some lessons, and then you
will soon be able.'

'You will never succeed in making me
clever,' said she, bitterly. She was very jealous
of what that other had been able to do.

Nonsense, Zeph ; don't be so unreasonably
humble. You have done wonders with your
French and music'

She shook her head. He took her hand
to draw her nearer to him, but had for the
moment to content himself with kissing the tips
of her fingers, for she had espied something

behind the Bracciano which interested her.
He saw what it was with a pang, and wished
he had remembered that it was there and could
have kept it out of her sight. It was a small
flat parcel addressed to Daylesford in a handwriting
that was very pretty and a woman's,
and Zeph was almost certain that she had seen
it before on a letter that came when she was at
the Castle.

Whose writing is that, Godfrey ? ' she
asked quickly.

I am not sure I know,' said he, suddenly
feeling himself at the end of his resources so far.
as truth was concerned. ' Open the parcel, and
then perhaps I shall be able to tell you.'

It was the parcel containing the two sketches
of Berkhampstead, which Hester had made it a
matter of sentiment to do for his brother Mar-mature.
Daylesford had thrust them into that
folio when he found them on his return from
Santa Eulalia, and had never either seen or
thought of them since.

Zeph unfolded the paper, saw the drawings,

and straightway administered a blow to her
husband's vanity — a blow to which he was by no
means insensible.

Oh, you have done some of the Castle after
all ! ' said she. 'I was wondering why I saw
none. These two sketches are a thousand times
better done than any of the others. No one
would believe that they were by the same
person, they are so good.'

They are not by the same person,' replied
Daylesford, recovering himself as best he might,
They are by a professional — at least I expect
she is quite professional by this time. You
must have seen some of her things at Winthrop's.
She sometimes exhibits there.'

What is her name ? ' said Zeph, faint with
anxiety, and yet all but certain that, when he
answered that question, she would be in possession
of that dreaded name.

Her name is Langdale — Hester Langdale.
She is quite young as an artist, but her things
are very good.'

Very ! ' said Zeph, drawing a long breath,

for the tension was very great. ' And you got
these of her ? '

Yes,' he replied, wishing she would not
involve him in such a web of untruth by her
repeated questions, and yet not feeling able to
tell her how and why the drawings had really
been done.

'And you sent her to Berkhampstead to
make them ? ' pursued Zeph.

No — Yes — I can't tell you how they were
done. I did not send her, but she may have
gone ; not that I ever heard of her having done
so. It was arranged that they were to be
painted, and the rest, of course, was her affair.'

But she could not do them without seeing
the place, could she .^ '

I could not ; but perhaps she could. She
may have been to Berkhampstead ; but you
had more opportunity than I had of knowing
whether she was there or not, for you were
there when they were painted, and I was at
Santa Eulalia.'

I never saw any one sketching there,' said

Zeph, beginning to have a faint hope that she
had been distressing herself and tormenting her
husband about nothing. Then a new fancy-seized
her, and she said, ' I wish you would
give me those drawings, Godfrey. I do like
them so much.'

I cannot do that,' he answered, ' for they
are my brother's.'

Daylesford's brother was a very obnoxious
person to Daylesford's wife. He was made of
too much importance. Nothing of any consequence
could ever be done without reference to
what he would be likely to feel on the subject,
and whether it would in any way, however
small, be prejudicial to his interests. Zeph was
tired of both his feelings and his interests.

Everything is your brother's ! ' she exclaimed
pettishly ; ' at least everything that I
ever happen to want ; ' and having said that, she
let her pretty head droop lower and lower, and
sat looking ill-treated and disconsolate.

Daylesford was miserable at once and penitent,
and yet he could not bring himself to disregard

Hester's wish that his brother should
have those drawings. ' They are my brother's,'
he repeated, ' so I cannot give them away ; but
if you would like some drawings of the place,
you shall have the best that can be made. I will
give a commission to the best artist I know.'

Fo, thank you, ' said Zeph, rather coldly ;
I like these ; but if I cannot have them, never
mind. I don't want to take your brother's
things, of course.'

Daylesford looked perplexed ; he was
tempted to give them to her, but it did seem
so treacherous to give Hester's drawings to
Zeph. Zeph affected to forget her wish, and
turned back to Bracciano. Then she said,
'It is a very long time since we have been at
Berkhampstead ; I suppose we shall go there
soon ? ' '

I have been a great deal more there since
I knew you than I ever was before,' said
Daylesford.

It is "a pity to go so seldom,' said Zeph.
There safe few places so delightful.'

Very few ; but I want to have it well
understood that it is not my place. If I were
always there, and Marmaduke always out of
the way, people would only associate me with
it, and at last they would think it was mine.'

I sometimes wish it was,' said Zeph, who
was out of temper, and could not hide her
feelings. ' As it is, no one gets any good of it.'

Daylesford looked at his sweet young wife
in some dismay. She had said nothing yet
that he could positively object to, but he began
to be half afraid that certain thoughts might be
lurking behind her words which, if expressed,
would for ever rob her of much of his love and
respect.

I suppose we shall go there in a week or
two, as a matter of course ? ' said Zeph, after a
brief silence.

'I never go there as a matter of course,'
said he.

Why not ? One feels somebody there —
all is so old and grand.'

Zeph ! Zeph ! ' said he, remonstrating

with her as he would have done with a
child.

Why do you say; " Zeph, Zeph " ? ' she
exclaimed quickly ; ' those are quite natural
feelings. If one has ancestors one ought to
enjoy having them ; and if one has a splendid
old place, one ought to live in it. I made sure
that we should go there for part of August and
September, and I have almost promised Lady
Lucy that she and her husband and all of them
shall come while we are there. Don't look
vexed, Godfrey, I could not help it; she all
but invited herself You may be quite sure
that I did not want to have her there with us.
She is about as tiresome as a woman can be,
and those daughters of hers are, if anything,
worse.'

They are all appallingly dull. I would
not have them there for the world if the place
really was mine, so why should I have them
when it is not ? '

But, Godfrey, what could I do when she
was so persistent? She forced me to invite

her. She woukl have forced you to do it.
She won't be much trouble, she says ; she and
I will drive about slowly, and rest ourselves
after the fatigues of the season.'

I am afraid she will have to get her rest
elsewhere,' remarked Daylesford, ominously.

But you do go there to shoot sometimes,
I know you do,' said Zeph.

Of course I do, but I never ask a party.
I sometimes go for a day or two with a
few bachelor friends, but I never entertain
there, and I never will. If we were to go
there with an establishment, we should have
to entertain the county, and we should at
once assume a position to which we have no
right,'

No one says that we have no right to it
but you,' replied Zeph, * and it would be very
much nicer for us if we had it. We should be
much more thought of and of much more
importance, and I really cannot see why we
should not. It is not as if your abstaining did
your brother Marmaduke any good.'

VOL. III. c

Zeph had said this without observing that
her husband was letting her say what she liked
in perfect silence, but that his colour was rising
more and more and his hands moving nervously.
' Every one says that,' she added, asa
strong reinforcement of what she had said
before.

Who says that .^ ' said Daylesford, with
growing anger.

Oh, every one. Lady Lucy says so for
one, and other friends whom I meet in society
have often either said or hinted as much to me.
They all say that your refusal to take the title
and estates is Quixotic, simply Quixotic, and
that it does Marmaduke no good. You don't
take them, and he cannot, and the result is that
neither of you have them.'

'And you, Zeph — would you like me to
take them ? ' he asked very calmly, and yet
something in his voice awed her.

I ? Well, yes, I should, but not if it
would give you much pain to do it. Certainly
not, if it did that ; but if not, of course I should.

It would be much pleasant for us to move in
society on a more assured footing.'

Those are not your own words, Zeph,'
exclaimed Daylesford. ' Whose words are you
quoting ? '

Lady Lucy's. She thinks it is ridiculous
self-sacrifice. It is good and kind of you, no
doubt, she says, but it is a mere waste of goodness
and kindness.'

And what other persons say the same
thing ? ' asked Daylesford, eagerly.

Agnes says it sometimes, and so do others.'

Well, they may say it — one and all of
them may say it, and I do not regard their
words. There is one thing of which I am quite
certain, and that is, that your father would
never say such a thing ! He is a high-minded
and honourable gentleman, and he would
utterly despise me if, to please any petty vanity
or ambition, I could avail myself of the accident
which deprived us of the opportunity of producing
my mother's certificate of marriage, and
took the title and estates, when taking them

c 2

involves the admission of what I know to be
utterly false — that my own mother was a
woman of light character.'

He had risen to his feet, and was standing
looking down on her with bright angry eyes
and flushed cheeks. His words came thick
and fast, and were spoken under the influence
of passionately strong feeling — they seemed to
come from the depths of his heart. Never had
Zeph seen him look like that before — never
had she heard him speak in that angry and
excited manner. She dared not meet his eyes
she felt that he was looking down on her,
and regarding her as a mean and contemptible
creature whose ideas were so base that they
could only be heard with loathing. She
cowered beneath his gaze, felt the justice of his
contempt, wondered at her own unparalleled
baseness, and had never admired him so much.
She could not speak ; once she tried to do so,
but her voice failed her. She had never felt
so abject in her life. He was standing there
full of generous emotion, in which it was only

too evident that he knew she could take no
part. He had not said one word of direct
reproach to her, and yet his contempt was
stabbing her like a knife. He was speaking

again.

Never let me hear you hint at such a thing
again ! Never invite people to Berkhampstead,
and if no feeling on your own part prompts
you to such a course, I entreat you, as my wife,
to refuse to listen to all such persons as are
mean enough to recommend what is so base.
If you have committed yourself to Lady Lucy,
I will take a country-house, and you can invite
her and her family to stay with you ; but Berk-hampstead
is my brother's, and always will be
so long as I believe in my mother's truth and
purity ; ' and having said that, he hastily
quitted the room.

He was gone. He had left her without
saying another word. She had not expected
him to go so abruptly. She had known that
he was almost irretrievably shocked by this
revelation of her baseness, but she had hoped

that, when his anger was somewhat spent, he
would say some word to show that contempt
and indignation had not driven out every other
feeling, and that, deeply wounded though it
was, his love for her was not dead. But he
had left her without a word — he had even said
something which might prove that he never
intended to see her again ; ' You can invite
Lady Lucy to stay with you,' as if he himself
would not be there. Perhaps she would never
see him more. Perhaps he would at once goto
the brother whom he loved above all created
beings, and leave her to wear out the rest of
her life as best she might.

He was still in the house, she believed, but
she dared not follow him to entreat his forgiveness.
What, indeed, would it avail her todo
so ? He would, no doubt, forgive her, but
he could not promise to feel for her as he had
done before. She had not quite recognised
how much her words must convey to him until
she had heard his answer. How nobly he had
answered her ! — how true was all that he had

said ! She had never felt so utterly abased
before. What fellowship could there henceforth
be between them ? Presently she heard
the house door shut ; he was o-one.

CHAPTEE XXVI.

'BUT YOU SEEM TO HAVE BEEN ENJOYING A
Mystery TOO ! '

Whatever be my lady's present, past,

Or future, this is certain of my soul —

I love her ! E. Browsing.

Zeph felt that she must do something. She
could not sit there hour after hour, until he
came home, and then not know whether she
dared to creep into his presence or not. perhaps
he did not even intend to come home.
She rose drearily to her feet, went to her room,
and slowly dressed to go out. She would goto
her father's house, and if her husband
wanted her to return, he would come in search
of her.

'Has your master left any message forme
.^ ' she inquired of the footman.

Not any, ma'am ; he only said that he
should not be in either to kmcheon or dinner.'

Then I shall not, either,' said she. ' Tell
him, when he returns, that I have gone to my
father's, and that I shall wait there until he
comes for me.'

She left the house at once and walked
quickly to Lome Gardens. Her father and
mother were now at home again, and she had
already seen them several times. She longed
to do so again. Some one was still left in the
world to love her so lons^ as those dear ones
lived. She climbed up the steep flight of steps
at the base of which she had parted from John,
but her mind was so full of what had just
occurred, that for once she did so without
remembering that scene and thinking of him.
She was soon admitted, and at once knocked
at the study-door. To a married daughter
much is permitted.

Are you very busy, father ? ' she asked.

I am always busy, dear,' he replied, ' and
more so than usual now, for my other work has

accumulated while I was at your husband's
place in the country.'

Don't call it his place,' exclaimed Zeph,
hastily. ' It is not his — it is Marmaduke's. I
thought you knew.'

Yes, dear, I know ; it was only my way
of speaking. It is his brother's, I know. I
wish I had succeeded in finding those papers
your dear good husband is so anxious about.
I hoped till the last, but found nothing.'

Ah, how I wish you had ! ' said Zeph, fervently
; and then she wondered if, supposing
she herself were ever the means of finding them,
he would then forgive her.

I begin to be afraid that nothing is found
because there is nothing to find,' said Mrs.
Treherne.

Mr. Treherne's mild blue eyes turned on his
wife in something very like anger. ' My dear,'
said he, solemnly, ' I sincerely hope you do not
know what your words imply. That is not a
speech a woman should be ready to make.'

What would he think and say if he knew

what words his daughter had that day permitted
herself to use ? And to Godfrey too ! She
would have no defender in her father. Her
husband was right on that point.

The two recluses had welcomed Zeph when
she first went into the room to see them, but
now, after these few minutes' conversation, they
relapsed into an attitude of wanting to get on
with their work. Zeph was very dear to her
father, but she could throw no light on mediaeval
history: her manners were charming, but all
his interest was in those of a bygone age, and he
had a manuscript lying on the table before
him, seen as yet by few, which would teach him
much that he was longing to know. He did
not want her to go quite away ; he would have
liked her to sit down and take a pen in her
hand, to be ready to write notes if such were
wanted, and thus let him continue to have the
pleasure of feeling that she was near him ; but
her poor mind was in such a disturbed state,
that she could not trust herself to do anything
that involved sitting quiet, so she went upstairs

to her sister Agnes, who was still the only one
at home.

Agnes was writing a long letter to Polly.
'Don't let me stop you,' said Zeph ; 'I will
wait — indeed I am going to stay till quite
late,' and fervently she hoped that that would
be all.

Oh, then I will just finish it,' replied
Agnes ; ' I should like to get it off. She writes
so seldom that I don't want to leave her the
excuse of saying that it is because I do the same.
Zeph, do you think that there is any reason for
her writing so seldom ? '

I suppose she has nothing to tell us.'

Or else so much that she does not know
where to begin. That's my idea of it. By-the-bye,
I met Dr. Simonds this morning, and he
said that he and his wife were both wondering
what could make John stay at Alnminster after
the school had broken up. All schoolmasters
go away then, he says.'

'Then John might as well go too. Why
doesn't he ? ' said Zeph, carelessly.

I don't know ; that is one of the things
that I can't help wondering about.'

Well, get on with your letter,' said Zeph,
impatiently ; and Agnes began to wish that she
had held her tongue.

May I go and look at my own poor little
old bedroom while you are writing ? ' said
Zeph, after a silence. ' I should so like to
see it.'

So she went upstairs, marvelling, as she
always did marvel now, at the incredible
smallness of everything. Her room was unchanged.
Every object was familiar, and had
once been dear to her. Each represented a
sacrifice of some kind which she had been
obliged to make before she could afford to buy
it, and yet there was not one thing in the whole
room which she had thought worth carrying
away with her when she married. Before she
knew what she was doing, she had seated herself
once more on the old black box on which
she had done so much hard thinking in the days
when she had been so often unhappy. She did

some hard thinking now. How should she bear
it if she had to return to her father's house, and
occupy this Httle hole of a room, and hive the
joy-forsaken life of other days ? The chances
were that she would have to do it. How should
she break this disgraceful fact to her family ?
She would not do so until the last moment, but
if her husband had not come to take her home
before eleven, she would know that the time
had come to tell what had happened. Never
before had she at all realised the value of his
love and kindness. He was a friend whose
heart had always been open to her. What
were all other ties by comparison with her
husband's love ? She had come home bruised
and almost heartbroken — none of her own
family had even seen that she was suffering.
She had not exchanged a word with any of them
for some days, and yet none of them came near
her ; they seemed perfectly satisfied to let her
sit alone in a garret at the top of the house ;
and yet she was grumbling at what she was
thankful for. She was better alone.

What a wicked fool I have been ! ' she
thought. ' What an incredibly wicked fool !
A dear, kind man was good enough to love me,
and I had not even the decency to abstain from
wounding him in the very tenderest point!
He has given me everything. What have I
given him ? Neither love, nor kindness, nor
common courtesy and forbearance.'

She did not know how long she had been
alone when Jack, who had now returned home
from some holiday expedition, came to tell her
that Agnes had finished her letter, and was
Ravishing that she would go down. The sight
of Jack was too much for Zeph. She would
probably have broken down anyhow, but he
converted the probability into a certainty by
saying, ' Why, Zeph, you look just as you used
to do before you went away ! '

She flung her arms round him and said,
And I feel just as I used to do, Jack. I am
so unhappy about something, dear, and my
head does ache so badly ! ' He made her he
down on the bed, and did his best to comfort

her, and Agnes came, and somehow or other
the day passed.

Had you not better go home ? ' suggested
Agnes, when evening drew near ; ' you would
be more comfortable in your own room. Jack
will run and get a cab, and I will go with you
and stay an hour or two.'

'Fo,' said Zeph, shaking her head, 'I have
made up my mind to stay here till Godfrey
comes for me. It is no use going home ; he is
out, and won't be in till late.' So she lay on
the sofa in the drawing-room with her eyes
fixed on the clock. Would he come and take
her away or not ? She dared not show her
anxiety. For the most part she was alone with
Agnes. Jack went to bed early, and Mrs.
Treherne could not leave her husband.

It is a quarter to eleven,' said Zeph, feeling
more and more wretched as her hopes
began to fade away.

In reality it is a quarter past,' replied
Agnes ; ' that clock is half an hour slow.'

Alas, then, all was over, and henceforth she

was to stay where she now was ! She turned
her face to the wall to hide it from her sister.
She heard a sound which made her wish to
listen, but she had heard many such sounds,
and knew she should only be disappointed
again.

There is the carriage ! ' exclaimed Agnes,
suddenly. ' I am quite sure ; I heard it stop.'

The bell rang ; he was there. How was
she to meet him ? She hid her face and lay
quite still, trembling at the sound of his step.

Poor Zeph has been so ill ever since she
came,' said Agnes. ' I wanted her to let me
take her home, but she would not ; she said
she must wait here till you came for her.'

Zeph half raised her eyes to his face ; she
dared not really look at him.

I am so sorry you have been so ill,' said
he ; 'you had better come home at once.'

She rose to her feet immediately, but neither
looked up nor spoke, and he tenderly led her
downstairs and put her in the carriage. ' forgive
me, Godfrey,' she said, when the door was

VOL. 111. D

shut and they were left alone ; it was all she
could say.

He took her to his heart in a moment, saying,
' My darling, you did not mean it, I know.'
His kindness overwhelmed her ; she laid her
head on his shoulder in thankfulness, and did
not utter one word all the way home.

Was Zeph better for what had occurred ?
Infinitely better in some respects, and during
that day of misery she had come nearer to
loving her husband than ever she had done
before. She respected him for the just indignation
he had shown, and she had learnt the
value of his love. But she was not so happy
as she had been before ; she could not forget
how she had writhed beneath his scorn, and
was perpetually conscious that she had descended
to a considerably lower level in his
estimation. He was kind — he was more than
kind, but an indefinable something had sprung
up in his manner, which showed that she was
no longer the woman whom he reverenced,

but the woman whom he loved and meant to
be kind to in spite of much that jarred on
him. And then he went out alone a great
deal more than he had done before, and
Zeph, who was beginning to find that his society
was necessary to her happiness, felt this
acutely, but dared not notice it, for what was
she that he should care to bear her company ?
She was neither educated enough to be an
intellectual companion to him, nor yet was shea
loving woman who shared his joys and
sorrows and sympathised with all his feelings.
She had unhappily proved herself lamentably
the reverse, and had deliberately wounded him
on the one point on which he was most sensitive,
and earned his contempt by showing him
that the principles of honour and delicacy
which governed his life were to her a dead
letter. She could not tell him that she had
spoken thoughtlessly, and had not expressed
her true feelings. She was too honest to do
that, for it was not the fact. There had been
a time when she admired Daylesford for his

M -1

behaviour with respect to the title and estates,
but intercourse with the great world had stimulated
her ambition more and more. She had
learned the value of honours and dignities, and
wealth and power, and had begun to regret the
waste of those which belonged of right to the
Daylesford family. If Marmaduke could have
profited by his younger brother's devotion,
Zeph would have viewed her husband's sacrifice
calmly, nay more than calmly ; but Marmaduke
was an exile, and would probably never return
to England ; the title was in abeyance, the
money accumulating no one knew for whom ;
the Castle shut up, and all benefit fi-rom this
great inheritance lost to both. Why should
not her husband take what the law had declared
to be justly his ? She had more friends than
one in the great world who had expressed this
opinion to her without the least hesitation, and
gradually she had begun to share it. She felt
very differently now that Godfrey had put the
case before her in its true light ; but now, alas !
it was too late. She had spoken words which

he could never forget. He did not forget them ;
she saw this only too surely, or thought she did
so. She watched him incessantly, weighed his
words, appraised his looks ; was certain that he
loved her less. He did not spend half so much
time with her as he had once done ; what
should she do if things grew worse ?

The time came to leave London, and they
spent the late summer and early autumn in
paying a series of visits. Lady Lucy had
received other invitations, and as her thirst forrest
was likely to be appeased elsewhere, she
did not seem to regret Berkhampstead much,
so Daylesford and his wife were free to make
their own plans. He would not go to Berk-hampstead,
however, not even for a few days.
He said that, if they did, Mrs. Scatcherd would
be sure to infest the house all the time they
were there, and that he would not go until he
had persuaded some one to give her husband a
good living. Zeph found matter for sadness in
these words. She chose to consider that they
implied a reproach to herself. Mrs. Scatcherd

found her a congenial companion, and Godfrey,
no doubt, regarded them as much on a par.
Perhaps we are ! ' thought Zeph ; she was beginning
to estimate herself very humbly.

Early in October they returned to London ;
Daylesford was going to pay a fortnight's visit
to a bachelor friend in Scotland, and Zeph was
for the first time to be left alone. The day of
his departure was drawing very near, when he
received a letter from Miss Everilda. It came
when they were at breakfast, and after reading
it he passed it across the table to Zeph without
any comment. It was an invitation to Seaton
Court. Miss Everilda said she knew that
Daylesford was engaged to pay a visit in Scotland,
but that if he came at once there was
time for him to spend at least a week with her
before he was due there, and that, as Zeph was
not going to Scotland with him, she must makeup
her mind to give her poor old cousin the
pleasure of her company during that time, and
Daylesford could pick her up on his way home.
That, as he thought, seemed an excellent plan,

but, unfortunately, Miss Everilda added, ' T
write to you, my dear cousin by marriage — an
alliance, by the way, of which I am very proud
because, though I have written two letters
already on the same subject to your sweet
young wife, she has refused to accede to my
wishes, and I want to interest you in my
request. I very much want her to come. I
want you even more. Your sister-in-law Mary
has no grown-up brother of her own, and there
are times in a girl's life when this loss is much
felt. A brother would be invaluable to my
dear Mary now. I am with her, and I love her
truly, but my love is perhaps not far-seeing, and
no woman can judge of a man's worth so acutely
as a fellow-man can do. This being the case,
do come. I am not at liberty to write more
openly. It would not be seemly to anticipate
what may be coming ; but if nothing is coming,
no harm will be done by your giving me the
great pleasure of seeing you and your wife here,
and surely it would be pleasant by far for her
to be here, with her own affectionate relatives.

than in London, when you are not there with
her. By-the-bye, I do think you ought both
of you to come, if only to see Mary in the
lovely fancy dress your good taste has provided
her with. Zeph will have told you about the
ball I have been persuaded to give. It is to
take place on the 12th, just when you would
both be here. I did think of giving it earlier,
but had to postpone it till the county magnates
returned from the sea-side.' Daylesford had
watched Zeph's face while she read this rigmarole,
and could easily see that she was feeling
annoyed by something more than the wild confusion
of its style.

She does enjoy a mystery ! ' exclaimed
Zeph, impatiently.

'But you seem to have been enjoying a
mystery too ! ' observed Daylesford, drily.
Your cousin says that she has already asked
us twice, and that you have each time refused.
You never told me that we had been invited.'

Because — I am afraid it was because I did
not want to go,' replied Zeph, blushing.

Not want to go ! But why, dear ? '

Oil, for a great many reasons ; and I don't
think you would like to stay in Miss Everilda's
house, you would be bored to death by her
absurdities.'

But she is so anxious we should go, and
she asks you to stay there while I am in Scotland.
That would be much pleasant than
staying here. Did she propose that before, oris
it a new idea ? '

It is new ; but I don't want to go at all,
Godfrey.'

You need not stay quite so long. Seaton
Court is near Alnminster. Seeing that cathedral
would atone for a great deal of boredom.'

'I don't want to see it, I am sure,' said
Zeph ; and then she would have liked to recall
her words, for he would consider them another
proof of her uneducated want of interest.

But don't you want to see Polly again ?
You have not been with her for months ; and
don't you see that we are both omitting to take
into account the real reason why your cousin

is SO anxious we should go ? Polly has got a
lover! Your cousin is afraid of the responsibility
of letting an engagement take place
under her roof without '

But you surely do not want to take
the responsibility upon yourself ? ' exclaimed
Zeph.

'I don't understand you, Zeph dear,' he
replied, fixing his honest kindly eyes on this
perplexing wife of his.

'Dear Godfrey, that is not my fault. I
have been trying to make you understand that
I would rather not go. Please do not let us
think of it.' '

But won't she say that it is unkind if we
don't? and, by-the-bye, is it not unkind —
to Polly I mean, even more than to your
cousin ? '

Zeph shook her head. ' No, not unkind
at all ; we could do nothing either to help
her engagement or to hinder it, whatever we
thought, and we shall not be considered unkind
if we give a good reason for our refusal.'

But what reason would be a good one in
answer to such a letter as that ? ' he asked,
wondering more and more.

'Let us think a little,' said Zeph, hoping
that she had persuaded him.

'Have you any idea who this gentleman
is ? ' he asked. ' I don't want you to tell me
Polly's secret, if they are secrets, but I suppose
she has told you all about him.'

Zeph blushed so painfully that he was sorry
for her ; but he could not imagine why she
should do So ' Lie has never said anything tome
— never given me the least hint that anything
was going on.'

Just as Zeph said this, and mercifully as it
happened, for it helped to screen her, a note
was brought from Agnes. Miss Everilda had
invited her to go to Seaton Court with the
Daylesfords if they went, and to stay there for
some time, and Agnes, who had not been from
home for more than a year, and then only fora
week to Berkhampstead when Zeph was
married, was full of delight. She would be

there for the ball, — she would enjoy many
other pleasures as yet unknown to her.

What is it ? ' asked Daylesford, perceiving
that Zeph was not pleased by what she was
reading.

Oh, she has asked Agnes to go with us,
and Agnes is very much delighted.'

Another reason for our going,' said Dales
' It would be cruel to disappoint her.'

Zeph went to the window. If Godfrey
persisted in urging her thus she would have to
speak of something that she did not even like
to think about. It was cruel of him to try
to make her do what he must see she dished
so much. He would not have done that
six months ago, when he loved her, and this
thought made her very unhappy.

At this moment Agnes came in. She had
followed her own note very quickly. ' You
have got my note ? You know that Miss
Everilda wants me to go to Seaton Court with
you ? ' she asked, her eyes dancing with
pleasure.

Yes, but I don't think we are going — at
least I don't want to go,' replied Zeph.

That is what I was so afraid of,' said
Agnes, sadly ; ' I thought you might perhaps
not quite like to go.'

Not quite like to go,' thought Daylesford ;
why should she not ? ' It was manifest that,
whatever the reason might be, Agnes was well
acquainted with it.

'I do so want you to accept,' pleaded
Agnes ; ' I have never been anywhere or seen
anything, but I'm not to go unless you do.'

Zeph made some answer which did not
amount to much, and looked at Daylesford.
He would have liked to know more about this,
but, being a gentleman, and seeing that the
two girls were not able to talk as freely as they
wished in his presence, he made some excuse
and left them alone.

Why should my wife dislike paying this
visit ? ' He asked himself this question again
and again. When he went home he found
that xlgnes had completely changed her mind

and no longer wished to go to Seaton Court,
and that the two his had, subject to his consent,
arranged to pass the fortnight which he
was to spend in Scotland, together ; Agnes was
to come and stay with her sister. He could
not but believe that his wife had persuaded the
poor girl to sacrifice her wishes.

What do you say to our plan, Godfrey ? '
asked Agnes.

I do not know what to say. I think Methought
to go. I am afraid, if not, Polly will
think her unkind.'

Polly think her unkind ! ' exclaimed the
indiscreet Agnes ; ' Polly is not the one who
wants Zeph to go. I don't suppose she even
knows that Miss Everilda has written to ask
her. Polly would have stopped her if she had.
She would '

Zeph was looking much distressed. Agnes
caught sight of her face and checked herself
suddenly.

Why should Polly stop her ? ' asked Dales
rather indignant with the expression.

Because she would be perfectly sure that
Zeph would not want to go there ! '

I am afraid I don't quite understand,' said
Godfrey.

I mean it is so dull there,' said Agnes, who
had not Zeph's straightforward determination
to tell the truth at any cost.

Dull, when so short a time before Agnes
had been longing to go because of the many
pleasures she would enjoy! Zeph looked distressed
; nothing would have induced her to
make such a false excuse. Daylesford, of course,
noticed the discrepancy between Agnes's present
and past views, but he felt sure that, when he
and Zeph were alone together, she would give
the explanation which now seemed to be really
needed. But Zeph made no attempt to explain
anything, and Daylesford felt aggrieved. She
looked at him as if she would like to say something.
He gave her openings and opportunities
to do it ; she never availed herself of any of
them, and he grew more and more dissatisfied
and estranged from her.

If you don't want to go to Seaton Court
you shall not go, but I think I shall for a day
or two,' said he.

'Thank you, Godfrey,' she replied, and he
did not know whether she was thanking him for
sparing her a trial or for being ready to undergo
one himself. Zeph was very subdued in
her manner nowadays, for she was perpetually
tormented by the consciousness that she had
forfeited much of her husband's love. She
watched for signs of this, and made herself
miserable when, as was often the case, she
thought she found them, and he in his turn was
watching her just as narrowly. He could not
fail to observe that her manner to him was
much changed ; it was anxious and deferential ;
and he often saw her looking at him with eyes
full of sadness. ' What is it, Zeph ? You are
not quite happy about something,' he sometimes
said.

It is nothing,' she always replied, for she
was afraid it was but natural that he should
love her less after what had occurred, and

ashamed to complain that he left h(3r alone so
much more. Men were not expected to devote
almost their whole time to their wives ; she
knew that. He had been very good when the'
first came home, and all was new and strange
to her ; then he had always been at hand.
She could not expect that kind of thing to goon
for ever. Nevertheless it made a great
difference.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

I HAVE A VERY PARTICULAR REASON.'

This sounds as bad as truth. — Shelley.

Daylesford did not go to Seaton Court until
his return from Scotland, but that did not prevent
his receiving a warm welcome from Miss
Everilda.

Where is Polly ? ' he asked, soon after his
arrival.

She is doing something for me ; you will
Se her directly, poor dear,'

Is anything amiss with her ? ' asked
Daylesford.

No ; yes. My dear Mr. Daylesford, our
house is full of excitement just now — a great
deal that is interesting is going on in it. I
don't know when I have enjoyed anything
more ! I asked you here to give your opinion

of one lover, and now we have actually two
coming ; at least one of them has given upcoming,
and that's what makes it so interesting.'

Two ! ' said Daylesford in some confusion,
as was not unnatural, considering the vagueness
of the information she gave him.

Yes, two ; at least I suppose I may say
two, for I am sure that Mr. Cuthbert is in love
with Mary, for he is always* coming to see her ;
and Mr. Simonds won't come, so he must have
a very strong feeling for her too.'

I don't quite see that,' said Daylesford.

Oh, yes, I do ; he was always here till he
got vexed and jealous ; and he would not have
got jealous if he had not been in love, now
would he ? — and isn't it interesting ? '

I wish you would explain a little,' said
Daylesford.

I will — I want to do so. I will put the
situation perfectly before you. Our first lover
was Mr. Simonds, one of the masters at the
Alnminster School, and he used to come here
very often before the ball. Lover number two

E 2

LIBRARY

made his first appearance at that ball. He is
a rich young squire in the neighbourhood.
Mr. Simonds, you know, perhaps, does not
dance much, and is not much at home at balls
or entertainments of that kind, and Mr. Cuthbert
is quite different, and appears to great
advantage in society. I told dear Mary at the
time that she was dancing far too much with
Mr. Cuthbert, and letting him make her too
conspicuous ; but she said she could not help
it, for there was no keeping him away from
her, and that he asked her for nearly every
dance. Mr. Simonds saw this, and began to
look very black and indignant, and finally he
went away and walked on the terrace 'outside
in the moonlight. Wasn't it deliciously like a
novel ? I did so enjoy it ! Then Mr. Cuthbert
called next day, and came back the day afterwards
on some excuse, and Mr. Simonds was
here then, and saw him, and was vexed by
his attentions to Mary, and perhaps with her
manner to him, and left abruptly, and now he
will not come at all. He has refused all my

invitations for the last fortnight, so nov I have
resolved to let him have his own way and stay
at home if he likes, for in every respect Mr.
Cuthbert is a better match for my Mary, and he
lives only three miles off, so I should see her
whenever I liked, and have her at hand to help
me with my banking books.'

But which of the two does she like best ?

I don't know. She ought to prefer Mr.
Cuthbert, for John Simonds has behaved ina
very stupid, ill-tempered way. I feel quite
offended, for I have been very kind to him, and
now he refuses all my invitations.'

Don't distress yourself about it — leave it
to time.'

It does not distress me, except for Mary's
sake. So far as I am concerned, nothing could
have happened better. It is a mine of study
and inspiration to me. Stop, as we are alone,
I really do think I might read you one or two
of the things I have written lately. I owe
every one of them to this, and they are by far
the best things I have ever done.'

But ought I not to see Polly ? ' said he, in
much trepidation. 'You said that she was at
home.'

Yes ; she is in the breakfast-room with
Mr. Cuthbert,' replied Miss Everilda. ' She
went to add up my savings' bank accounts forme.
and he said he would not mind helping her
John Simonds used to help her before. She
does not know that you are here. They are
very difficult to balance, and I told Thomas on
no account to interrupt her.'

Then perhaps we ought not to interrupt
her,' said Daylesford.

Perhaps not. I want you to see Mr.
Cuthbert ; but there is no need to be in a
hurry about that, for he is going to dine here ;
I asked him when he came.'

Tell me all about him, as his case seems
the most pressing,' said Daylesford. 'I am
very anxious about Polly's happiness.'

It won't be secured by letting her marry
that ill-tempered Mr. Simonds — Mr. Cuthbert
is worth twenty of him ! I think, if you will

let me read a poem I wrote about Mr. Cuthbert
yesterday, you will get a better idea of
him than I could ever give you in plain prose.'

Oh, no ; as it is a matter of business, do
tell me in plain prose,' said Daylesford, in great
alarm ; 'I think it will be better for me, I
really do.'

I will try. I will do my best to set him
before you. His father was a sporting squire
of good family, and he died when this George
Cuthbert was a boy, He has two sisters, who
are well married and living in the county, and
he is rich, and young, and rather good-looking.
He does not care for poetry, I fear ; but if he
marries Mary we must try to get him to like it.
At present I am sorry to say he always falls
asleep if I read anything long to him, especially
if it is my own composition ; but when he marries
my dear little cousin, no doubt he will feel
more interest. He has a large estate and a
charming house about three miles off. He has
just returned from America, that is why he and
Mary have not met before.'

It sounds well. Is there no drawback ? '

Some people might think it a drawback
that he is a widower ; but I don't.'

That depends,' said Daylesford, oracularly.
And now tell me something about Mr.
Simonds.'

I have not patience to speak of him. It
is rude to refuse ray invitations, but he shall
have no more till this is settled. His father is
a doctor in London ; but there is no need to
tell you about him, for the Simon does and the
Trehernes have always been friends, and you
must have heard all about them from your wife.
You shake your head ; well, they played together
as children, and ran in and out of each
other's houses and called each other by their
Christian names. Mr. Simonds is always saying
Polly when he speaks to Mary now ; and then
he checks himself; and I daresay it would bethe
same with Zeph. However, he is not so
good a match as Mr. Cuthbert, so I am very
glad he has given up coming. I am very
anxious Mary should choose wisely.'

What is wisely ? '

Ah ! that remains to be proved ; if she
marry the one lie loves best, all will be
right.'

Miss Everilcla had said that Mr. Cuthbert
was a young man, so Daylesford was considerably
surprised when a gentleman of thirty nine
or forty walked into the drawing-room. The
poor lady knew that he was a little younger
than she herself was, and every one who was
younger than herself was young in her eyes,
for she measured her age by her feelings, and
they were as youthful as ever.

Polly was unfeignedly glad to see Dales
and the glow of pleasure which brightened
her face at once was sufficient for sometime
to hide all other feelings. After a while,
however, he could see that her words lagged,
that her manner was anxious and constrained,
and that she sometimes returned very short
answers to Mr. Cuthbert's polite speeches. He
seemed to be full of plans for Daylesford's
amusement and pleasure. He invited them all

to go next day to see one of the show places of
the county, an old manor-house and abbey
standing in a beautiful little estate of which he
was the owner. It was ten miles off, and the
weather was beginning to be cold for a long
drive, Miss Everilda said, but yet Mr. Dales
ought to see this ; or would he like to
make sure of seeing Alnminster first ? Polly's
eyes seemed to show some anxiety as to his
decision ; he saw that she was hoping he would
pronounce in favour of Alnminster, but, before
he could do so, Miss Everilda exclaimed, ' Oh
no, we will go to Alnminster another day ;
there is no fear of bad weather ; it is never wet
when I want to go anywhere.'

'Yes, please go to Aislaby tomorrow. I
want you to do that first,' said Mr. Cuthbert.
How shall we go ? You might take Mr.
Daylesford in the brougham, and then I would
drive Miss Treherne in my mail-phaeton.'

Polly cast such an imploring glance at
Daylesford that he came to her rescue at once
and said, ' Oh, no, let us go together ; we could

go in an open carriage if the ladies took a good
supply of wraps.'

So it was settled, and later in the evening
Polly thanked Daylesford for what he had done
for her. ' I did not want to drive all the way
to Aislaby alone with him. Miss Everilda is
the one who likes him, not I. I should have
had to do it though, had it not been for you

You must always give me a hint when I
can do anything for you,' said Daylesford, who
had a great regard for Polly.

May I ? Then will you do something else ?
Mr. Cuthbert will want you to put off going to
Alnminster till Friday, but I wish you would
say that you must go tomorrow. I have a
particular reason for this — a very particular
reason.'

All right,' said Daylesford, ' I will. You
don't much care for Mr. Cuthbert, I think ? '

'No, not very much, though he is kind,'
she answered. She looked as if she would like
to say more, but dared not, and almost immediately
afterwards Miss Everilda, who had left

them alone for a minute or two while lie made
some arrangements for next day's expedition,
returned. ' Dear Mary,' she said affectionately,
you don't seem quite yourself to-night ; are
you tired ? I have not heard your pretty laugh
all the evening.'

Mary returned no answer, so Daylesford
looked up quickly to see why, and caught sight
of something glistening in the girl's eyes ; they
had filled with sudden tears : a word or two
of kindness had been too much for her. She
turned away to examine a card on the mantelpiece
and answered as lightly as she could, but
from that moment his heart was enlisted in her
cause. He would not leave that house until he
had done all he could to make her happy.

The drive to Aislaby was enjoyable enough,
and it was a most beautiful place, even at that
chilly period of the year.

Keep with me, please, Godfrey,' Polly had
whispered when they alighted from the carriage,
so he never left her. He felt that Mr. Cuthbert
was regarding him as a stupid creature who

was determined to stay where he was not
wanted, and was continually looking at him
with a very discontented eye ; but he obeyed
Polly and never strayed from her side. They
walked through the park and soon came to a
lovely river side path between tall trees and
chris. The trees were magnificent, and even at
that late period of the year they were still
covered with leaves ; some were even green,
others were russet or scarlet, and many a bright
gold one was even now fluttering down to the
feet of the passers-by. Some fell lingeringly
into the impetuous little brown stream which
was hurrying so fast onwards to meet the strong
river, in which ere long its existence would be
merged. How it dashed the bright leaves
against the rocks which thwarted its progress !
how it whirled them through the rapids
between these barriers ! One leaf might be
traced far on its way. Sometimes it seemed to
have found a resting-place as part of a golden
girdle round some rock, and then some invisible
current began to dislodge it, and point

by point it lost its place in the bright band, and
slipped back into the whirl of the water.

Poor little leaves ! ' said Polly to Dales
' they don't want to leave this place. I
should not want to leave it either, if I lived
here.'

There is a very good house,' said Mr.
Cuthbert, who had approached unperceived,
much to Polly's discomfiture. ' It is just round
the corner.'

Who lives in it ? ' asked Miss Everilda.

Only a housekeeper. It is a sweet place,
but somehow I have always preferred thorny.
The kennels are there, you see. We
will go and look at the house.'

It was a pretty old house, not large, but
comfortable.

Come in,' said Mr. Cuthbert, ' there
are some pictures ; I want to show you
one.'

They went and saw the pictures, and the
gardens, and the ruins, and then returned to
the house to luncheon ; Mr. Cuthbert trying

all the time to detach Polly from the rigorous
guardianship of her brother-iix-law.

You must let me escort you to Alnminster,'
said Mr. Cuthbert when they reached home.
We must all go. Shall we go on Friday ? '

Daylesford remembered his promise to
Polly, and said he must go on Thursday ; and
then he learnt why she had made him do so,
for Mr. Cuthbert at once said he had an engagement
on Thursday and could not go.

'It must be Thursday, I fear,' replied
Daylesford, ' for on Friday I return to London.'

Thank you for what you have done for me
to-day,' said Polly, when Mr. Cuthbert, who
had stayed to dinner, had at last gone home.

And what can I do for you tomorrow ? '
asked Daylesford.

Polly blushed crimson. 'Nothing that I
know of,' said she ; ' but I will ask you if I
do think of anything.'

Is that a bargain ? ' he said.

It is, a faithful one, and it is my interest
to keep to it.'

They set off to Alnminster about ten.

I mean to devote myself entirely to showing
you the beauties of the place. I shall not
enter a single house, or waste a minute in
speaking to any one,' said Miss Everilda.

Unless it is some one who is very agreeable,'
said Daylesford.

Oh, no, not even then.'

Of course, as soon as they reached the
Cathedral Close, Miss Everilda darted off to one
of the canons' houses to inquire after some
invalid friend, and Daylesford and Polly were
told to make their way into the cathedral and
get a verger to show them round. Miss
Everilda did not mind missing that part of the
day, as she knew every word he would say to
them. When they came to the door leading
out of the cloisters, however, they were kept
back by a man with a wand. Service was not
quite over ; it was a Saint's day, and that made
it rather longer. There was a good deal to
look at, and they did not object to waiting.
Suddenly a whole band of white-surprised

King's Scholars streamed forth, and presently
Daylesford saw Polly shaking hands with a
handsome man in a surplice avIio looked very
glad to see her. He had little difficulty in
guessing this to be John Simonds, and strolled
away to examine the roof of the cloisters and
leave them the opportunity of saying a word
or two in peace. In a short time she came to
him with her newly-found companion. She did
not introduce him to Daylesford, but said, ' We
ought to go inside and find a verger, or Miss
Everilda will think that I am not doing my
duty by her guest.'

You need not have a verger, if you will
allow me to be your guide,' said Mr, Simonds.
I have nothing to do now till school begins
again at two o'clock, so I am entirely at your
service. Wait one moment, please, till I get
rid of this surplice.'

He soon rejoined them, and they all went
inside the building together, and still she did
not introduce the two gentlemen to each other.
Daylesford heartily liked the new-comer; he

VOL. HI. F

liked his honest, manly way of speaking, and
handsome kindly face. ' He is worth a dozen
Cuthbert,' thought he, ' and I am glad Polly
knows it.' Polly evidently did know it ; she
had become a different being.

You have not been to see us for a whole
fortnight,' she said to John, when she was sure
the reconciliation was so firmly established that
she could risk an allusion to the past.

Don't remind me. Do you think I don't
know and feel it ? Will Miss Everilda let me
go back with you, and stay to dinner this
evening, or shall you all be too tired .^ '

We shall not be tired at all,' replied Polly,
who could now have walked all day without
knowing that there was such a thing as fatigue.
Daylesford thoroughly enjoyed the hour spent
in the cathedral, for Mr. Simonds made all they
saw interesting. It was a whole hour before
Miss Everilda returned. At last she came,

Oh, Mr. Simonds ! ' she exclaimed, ' yoi.
here ? ' She was surprised, and never concealed
her feelings.

Yes,' said he, ' I had the great good
fortune to meet Miss Polly at the door. It is a
Saint's day, you know, so I am here.'

You might have — but no, I will forgive
you,' said Miss Everilda, magnanimously. ' But
you really have been long in coming to see us.'

It has seemed longer to me than to you,'
murmured John ; and then he said, ' I have
just been wondering whether I might go back
with you to-day and spend the evening. I
could walk home.'

We shall be delighted. Do come.'

You won't go till after four ? ' said he ; ' I
am not free till then.'

Oh, no, my cousin has never been here
before, and there is a great deal to show him.
Come, Mr. Daylesford, we must be moving

Daylesford was speaking to Polly. John
started and said, ' Mr. Daylesford ! Is that the
name of your friend ? '

Yes. Have you not been introduced .^
Mary, how thoughtless of you not to introduce
Mr. Daylesford to Mr. Simonds ! Mr. Simonds,

f2

Mr. Daylesford. You know who Mr. Dales
is, of course. I am proud to say that he
is a relative of mine, for he has married my
beautiful niece Josephine Treherne. You remember
her, of course, in your young days,
Mr. Simonds ; was she not a sweet creature ? '

Polly looked dismayed. Miss Everilda
would have run on still further if Daylesford,
who saw that something had occurred that was
extremely displeasing to John, had not come
up and silenced her for the moment by attracting
her attention to a bit of fine carving.

John had turned pale. Polly came to him
as soon as Miss Everilda had gone away with
Daylesford, and at once she said, ' John, forgive
me ; I purposely refrained from introducing
you ; I knew his name would distress
you.'

Oh, no, it does not distress me,' he
answered, recovering himself. ' It is not that
it was only the first shock — that's all.'

You would like him if you knew him,'
said she.

Now that, perhaps, is going a little bit too
far — at least for the present. I daresay he is
extremely pleasant, but T don't wish to be acquainted
with him. I shall not come out to
Seaton Court to-day. What excuse shall I
make ? '

Go away now, and say nothing about
going back with us, and then send a note to
say that you cannot. But I am afraid Miss
Everilda will be offended again.'

What are you two plotting ? ' inquired
luckless Miss Everilda. ' Come, Mr. Daylesford,
we must be going. Oh, Mr. Simonds, do tell
Mr. Daylesford the story about that mark on
the tomb there.'

I am extremely sorry,' replied John, ' but
I am afraid I must leave you or Miss Polly to
tell that, for I shall have to hurry away — I
have an engagement at home now.'

Indeed ? ' said Miss Everilda, incredulously.
Even she, though she lived in a poetical haze,
could see that he was leaving them because, for
some reason or other, he did not want to stay.

Daylesford saw it too, and could not but remember
that an hour ago he had said that he
had no engagement till two o'clock.

I really must go,' said John.

Well, good-bye, then,' said Miss Everilda ;
we shall meet again at four.'

He bowed so as to include the whole party,
and hurried away without looking at Dales
who could not fail to perceive that he
himself was the mark of this man's dislike.

What can be the matter with him now ? '
said poor perplexed Miss Everilda ; ' that
young man is much too ill-tempered to have
the management of boys. Don't you agree
with me, Polly ? '

Polly hung her head and seemed to decline
to think at all. They walked about the town
and saw the castle and all the fine views, and
at last it was time to go home.

But where is Mr. Simonds ? ' inquired Miss
Everilda.

I don't believe he will come,' thought
Daylesford ; and he was right, for a note came

instead to say that a duty had unexpectedly
been thrust on him which would detain him
the whole of that day, but that he would take
an early opportunity of calling at Seaton Court.
Miss Everilda threw his note on the floor
and said that his conduct was unpardonable.
Daylesford looked at Polly, who did not seem
either surprised or distressed.

You knew that he would not come,' said
Daylesford in a low voice some ten minutes
later, while Miss Everilda was jotting down a
line thought.

Polly made no answer — she could not deny
it. He could say no more, for the carriage
was ready, and they set out on their way home.
Little was said during the five-miles drive.
Miss Everilda had a bad headache, and Polly
was tired. She was not unhappy — Daylesford
could see that ; in fact she was infinitely
happier than when she left home in the morning.
He resolved to ask her for an explanation
of Mr. Simonds's strange manner before he
returned to London. Chance favoured him,

but not until late in the evenings when Miss
Everilda, whose headache had grown worse
retired to her own room.

Now, Polly,' said Daylesford, '' as we are
at last alone, do help me to understand some
things which are puzzling me.'

Polly looked very uneasy.

'Don't mind talking plainly to me, dear
Polly,' said he ; 'I am your brother, and I
want to be a good one. You may always
come to me in full confidence that I will do my
best to serve you.'

Thank you,' replied Polly, ' I am sure you
would. I trust you entirely. Miss Everilda is
kindness itself, but she takes such odd fancies,
and such sudden ones too.'

I can imagine it. Polly, do explain why
Mr. Simonds's manner changed so when he
heard my name.'

Polly looked much embarrassed, but at last
said, ' I thought you would know that — that
Zeph would have told you herself. Poor
fellow, he was very much attached to her.'

Daylesforcl was full of astonishment at his
own stupidity ; he saw the whole situation in a
moment, and wondered why he had not seen it
at a glance. Of course that was the reason,
and that was why Zeph had refused to come to
Seaton Court. She had known that she should
meet Mr. Simonds if she did. ' I might have
known,' thought he ; ' of course I might have
known.'

But when he is so obviously cured of his
attachment to your sister,' began Daylesford —
Polly blushing all the while like any rose, for
she could not but see what he meant — ' he
might surely be able to endure my presence
without showing so many signs of dislike. It
is not as if she had refused or deserted him for
my sake.' Polly hung her head. ' He is
a very good fellow,' continued Daylesford,
cheerily, ' and very much in love with you.'

Poor doubting Polly looked up in a
moment, ' Do you really think so, Godfrey ? '
she asked eagerly. ' He has behaved very
strangely to me lately.'

That's nothing. I am certain he is in love
with you, and if his conduct has been strange,
it is because he has been jealous of your Mr.
Cuthbert— that's all'

Perhaps it is ; and, after all, if he was
angry about lira it was natural enough ; he
thought he was going to be treated in the same
way again.'

Daylesford started ; her words fell on him
like a heavy blow. Had Zeph jilted this man
for the sake of one who was richer — for himself
.^ Polly's words could bear no other interpretation.
And he had never known it !

This explained everything. Not only did it
account for Mr. Simonds's jealousy of Mr. Cuthbert
and indignation when he thought he saw
Polly going the same way as her sister, but it
also explained Zeph's extreme reluctance to pay
this visit ; and, alas ! it also explained her

coldness to himself. He had often thought her

<

cold — often longed for some sign of her love,
and now the reason why she never gave him
any such sign was evident. She felt no particular

affection for him — she had married him
for his wealth and position ; she felt a certain
amount of kindness and much gratitude to him,
but her heart was given to another.

Daylesford was sitting in a dark corner by
the fire, or Polly, preoccupied though she was
with her own feelings, must have observed the
change that had come over him. ' Godfrey,'
said she timidly, ' you are sure you think that
he cares for me ? '

Daylesford started. ' I do. I am sure he
does,' he said.

Then if Miss Everilda talks to you about
him — she is sure to do so, I think — please
make her understand that it is wrong of her to
encourage Mr. Cuthbert so much, for I don't
care for him. I don't want him to come here,
and she is always asking him, and she won't
ask John.'

You had better tell her a little about Mr-simmonds's
past history,' said Daylesford, making
a great effort to be calm and reasonable for
Polly's sake ; ' about his affection for Zeph, I

mean. You see, as she is ignorant of that, she
naturally misjudges him. Tell her, and she
will understand his behaviour ; it is quite
natural under the circumstances.'

Quite,' replied Polly, emphatically, and her
answer was another anguish to him.

He must cut this short — he could not bear
it ; it was even a strain on his honour. He
was so tempted to ask Polly when this affair
with Simonds had happened, and if it had been
during the latter part of the time when he himself
had known his wife as Zeph Treherne. He
feared that it was so — he was almost certain of
it. He longed for complete certainty either
one way or the other. Polly could give it to
him, and doubtless would do so, but he must
not ask her. He must seek foi* no explanation
except from Zeph.

I want to write a letter,' said he ; ' I had
better do it at once. Be happy, Polly ; I will
speak to Miss Everilda ; she will listen to me,
and all will be right, I am sure. I like your

Mr. Simonds, and shall be very glad to welcome
him as a brother-in-law.'

Polly had not expected so much warmth
from him. ' Thank you,' said she, ' if ever
such a thing does come to pass, we must all try
to be happy about it. I don't see why not.
Zeph and he will be able to meet without
minding it, some day. Good-night.' She left
him, but he never wrote that letter, and it was
not a good night to him.

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

IT IS A BAD BUSINESS.'

Theseus. Say what abridgment have you for this evening ?
What mask? What musick ? How shall we beguile
The lazy time if not with some delight ?

Midsummer?' Nights Dream.

And cold hard words have we to deal with now.

K. Browning.

Poor Zeph ! ' said Daylesford to himself, as he
crossed the hall to find her on his return to
London, ' Poor Zeph, it is a bad business ! ' He
had thought about it all through the long cold
journey home. She had married him without
loving him — everything proved it — a thousand
words and looks and deeds — trifles in themselves,
but a heavy weight of evidence when
taken in combination with what Polly had so
unwittingly let fall the night before — all confirmed
the cruel fact. She had perhaps expected

that love would grow up of its own
accord after marriage, but alas, she had, week
by week, cared for him less. That is what
he thought all day long as he was making his
way to her over the frost-bitten marshes and
meadow lands through which the train hurried
him so fast. There was little enough to be
done now, he feared, beyond trying to make
the best of things.

He entered the room in a very softened
state of mind. Agnes was sitting by his wife's
side. He had not expected that Agnes would
be there. The sight of her reminded him of
the day when their visit to Seaton Court was
under discussion. He hated the memory of it,
and he greeted both the girls much more coldly
than he was aware of.

How is Polly ? ' asked Agnes.

'And Miss Everilda?' added Zeph, and
there their interest ceased. He supposed that
they both felt it was safer not to ask questions.
And yet Zeph knew Hon: Miss Everilda's letter
that some man was on the point of asking her

sister Polly in marriage — it was odd that she
did not want to hear something about him.
She had professed entire ignorance on the subject
when her cousin's letter came ; but she
could not have been so ignorant as she pretended
— she must have known it was John
Simonds, or she would surely show some curiosity
now. Agnes, too, had been tutored, and
was equally silent. He began to dislike Agnes.
He looked round the room — it was full of
material warmth and comfort — what other
warmth or comfort was there ? None I It
was contrary to his nature to let himself be
condemned to pass through life in this dreary,
half-hearted way without making some effort
to regain peace of mind, and even happiness.
He rapidly decided that he would speak plainly
to Zeph. He would tell her all he knew, and
thought, and feared, and ask for explanation
where explanation was needed. Surely by
means of honesty and forbearance, they might
arrive at some agreement which would enable
them to dwell somewhere on the borderland of

happiness, if they could not penetrate farther.
But what a difficult task it would be to speak
to her ! He would have to ask if she, his
wedded wife, had loved another man when she
went through the ceremony of marriage with
himself, and if she still preferred that man to
him?

How could he say such a thing? How
could they continue to live together if she
owned that it was true ? And yet better say it
now than have it on his mind as long as life
lasted — besides, was it right to have it on his
mind without giving her an opportunity of defending
herself? Yes, he would speak to her,
and soon. This constraint was intolerable to
him.

She was looking at him all this time and
trying to read his thoughts, but he did not
know it. How changed he seemed to be !
How different in his manner ! She had been
afraid that he might be cold to her, and though
anxious to see him again, had half-dreaded

VOL. III. G

return on that account ; for she was firmly
convinced that she had for ever lost his affection.
He had despised her ever since that day
when she had owned that she should like him
to assume the Berkhampstead title. She often
wondered how she could have done so, for in
her heart she admired him for his firmness in refusing
it, but one or two worldly women had
temporarily influenced her for evil, and in one
of her many moments of jealousy of his
brother she had given vent to the fruit of their
counsels. She knew that he could never love
her after that.

His coldness and silence were oppressive ;
and what right had he to be so unforgiving ?
He had never reproached her for what she had
said. She would have liked him much better
if he had. She began to feel very bitter
against him. Before he came, her mind had
been filled with pleasure at the thought of
seeing him again. Now he was with her, and
he could only make disjointed remarks about
the weather, or the fire, or the dog — she was

SO chilled that she could but answer his cold
speeches in their own tone.

He was mentally swearing at Agnes.
What a nuisance her presence was ! He
could not forget that after being in such a
state of delight at the prospect of going to
Seaton Court because of its gaiety, she had
suddenly declared that she did not want to go
because it would be so dull. Polly was worth
hundred of Agnes, and, he was almost afraid,
of Zeph too.

How lovely Zeph looked in the soft lamplight
— he dared not trust himself to look at
her — her love was none of his, and any appearance
of it had been a delusion. And yet
his eyes were drawn to her in spite of himself;
how sad she was beginning to look ! If that
odious Agnes were but away ! How could
Zeph have been so thoughtless as not to know
that he would like to be alone with her ? He
and Zeph had never been separated before ; he
had now been absent for three weeks, and
yet on his return he had to sit and talk

G 2

of indifferent matters because that girl was
there.

Zeph's heart, meanwhile, was hardening
more and more — show silent — how stiff* — how
terribly unkind Godfrey was now ; and she,
poor foolish girl that she was, had been rejoicing
all day because she should so soon see
him ! What was the use of seeing him ?
What was the use of having him back, if
he were always going to look as absent and
indifferent to her as he did now? What a
wretchedly dull evening it was going to be if
it were all like this ! She found herself wishing
he had stayed away a little longer. Agnes
and she had enjoyed their evenings hitherto —
there was always the theatre, if they had no
other engagement.

Godfrey,' said she, yielding to an uncontrollable
feeling of pique, and being for the
moment careless whether she wounded him or
not, 'you know that you have come a day
before we expected you ? '

Oh yes,' he replied, ' I told you I should

stay away till Saturday, but Polly asked me todo
something for her — to go to Alnminster
on Thursday instead of Fridays, that was all —
but in order to have a presentable excuse for
doing it I had to come home a day earlier.
She did not know that, of course, and I did
not think it would make any difference in your
arrangements. I telegraphed this morning.
You got my telegram ? '

'Oh yes, I got your telegram — it made no
difference. We have an engagement for this
evening ; you won't object to being left alone
a little, I am sure ; indeed perhaps you will
prefer it, for you don't seem inclined to talk ? '

What kind of an engagement .^ What do
you mean, dear .^ '

I mean a very ordinary sort of engagement,
an engagement to an " at home " Mrs.
Corrie asked us to some time ago.'

Well, you are not bound to go to a thing
of that kind unless you like.'

But we do like. We both enjoy going
out very much, and have a great horror of

being always at home. We have been out
every evening since you went away.'

Then I am sure you will not mind spending
this evening here now that I have come
back.'

But you might like to go yourself '

I ? Oh no, and I don't want you to go
either.'

Zeph looked as if she wanted to press the
point, but he said, ' Stay at home to-night if
you please, I particularly wish it.'

Of course we will stay if you wish it,' said
Zeph. But why should he wish it ? she thought
him ill-tempered and disagreeable.

He was paying very little attention to anything
that passed, but was earnestly thinking
how to find some way of living happily with
her, the woman whom he loved above all.
others. He would speak to her solemnly and.
lovingly, and he would do it at once. He had
the greatest faith in absolute openness.

Dinner came, and dinner at last was ended
it had seemed long, and weighed down by

perpetual restraint. Zeph and Agnes went
away together, and Daylesford said he would
smoke a cigarette and soon follow them. He
did smoke a cigarette, but he did not follow
them immediately. He could have no opportunity
of speaking to Zeph until that sister of
hers was gone to bed ; so he sat thinking how
to begin the conversation, and how best to say
what was so disagreeable to say and to hear.
Time passed unawares, he seemed to himself to
have sat twenty minutes or so, when he looked
at the clock on the mantelpiece and found that
it was nearly eleven. He rose rather wearily ;
he had slept little the night before, and his
journey had tired him. The time had come to
speak to her, but he made his way to the
drawing-room with no alacrity. He detested
his errand — he loved his wife in spite of everything,
and he felt that he was going to torture
her.

The drawing-room was empty ; Zeph and
her sister had gone to bed, then. He went
upstairs ; the door of Zeph's room was open,

and some one was moving about inside. It washer
maid. ' I was just folding up some of Mrs.
Daylesford's things, sir,' said she, ' but I have
done.'

Where is your mistress ? ' said he.

'Didn't Charles tell you, sirs It is very
wrong if he didn't, for I distinctly heard Mrs.
Daylesford leave a message with him. He was
to tell you that she and Miss Agnes Treherne
had gone to Mrs. Corrie's, but that they did
not intend to stay late.'

Gone to Mrs. Corrie's ! ' repeated Dales
who had never felt more astounded in his
life.

Mrs. Lawley, the maid, fixed a critical eye
on him — he perceived it, and recovered himself
in a moment. ' I had forgotten,' said he,
when once I had decided not to go myself, I
thought no more about it.'

He went downstairs to wait for them. The
lamps were already extinguished. He relighted
one, and drew a chair to the fire. He wanted
no light — he was not going to do anything.

He could not have believed that his wife
would disregard his request and go out. Had
she intended to do so even while she seemed
to be renouncing the pleasure she coveted ?
It must surely have been a sudden thought.
Perhaps that sister of hers had made her go ;
but how could Zeph leave the house without a
word ?

He sat for two hours, growing more and
more angry. ' They must come soon, now,' he
thought, but it was after one o'clock before
he heard the muffled sounds which betokened
their arrival. He did not move fi'om his chair
he felt that Zeph's conduct was outrageous.
When a minute or two had gone by, the servant
must have told her that his master was
still in the drawing-room, for she came in
quickly, with the air of a person who had for
the last three or four hours been so feted, flattered,
and caressed by those with whom her
time had been spent, that all such trifles as had
occupied her mind before she left home were
completely driven out of it. She advanced to

her husband's side with a step in which a trace
of dancing Angered — her hair lay carelessly
about her temples as if it had been blown there
while she was whirling round in the dance —
her manner was light and buoyant. Where
was the heavy-hearted woman whom he had
sat with such a short while before ?

You sitting up, Godfrey ? ' said she, ' I am
so sorry ! You got my message, I hope ? '
Her tone was as careless as her manner. ' * She
did not seem the least ashamed of what she
had done — he felt more and more indignant.

When I went up to bed I heard what you
had done, but not till then,' said he, ' and I
must say that I think you ought not to have
gone out when I so specially requested you to
stay at home.'

'It was a sudden thought. We fully
intended to stay at home, I assure you ; I
said we would when you asked us to do so
before dinner — but after dinner when you
stayed away such an immense time, and seemed
to care so very little for our society, we did

think that we might just as well be enjoying
ourselves at Mrs. Corrie's, as sitting boring
ourselves to death where we where — that
was all'

Well, I think you behaved extremely ill
to me, and I hope you will never do such a
thing again ! ' observed Daylesford, haughtily.

Zeph was nettled by his tone, and there
was another thing which irritated her. In
order to excuse herself she had just been
obliged to call back to her remembrance what
had occurred before she left home, and the
contempt for her society which he had shown
by spending all the evening in the dining-room
once more roused her anger.

'I should never have dreamed of going, if
you had come and sat with us,' said she. ' Of
course not : but I was alone with Agnes, and we
both like going out much better than sitting
alone ; and besides '

Let us say no more about it, Zeph,' said
he. ' Only never treat me so cavalierly again.
You behaved in a way that was far from

courteous, and I think I have a right to expect

courtesy from you, if ' he checked himself,

and did not complete that unpromising sentence.


Zeph was bewildered : the transition from
a brilliant ball-room where she had been
admired by all, to a dimly-lighted apartment
with the presence of a man privileged to scold
her, and disposed to avail himself of his privilege,
struck her as singularly disagreeable. If
Godfrey were going to be always like this,
dull, unloving, and silent unless he had some
fault to find with her, she had little enough to
look forward to. ' I will not do it again,' she
said coldly ; ' I should not have done it this
time if you had behaved differently ; and then
I had Agnes to think of — you forget that!
You are always thinking of what your brother
will like — why should not I sometimes do the
same by my sister ? '

This was a most unfortunate speech — it
reminded Daylesford of a day which he desired
to forget for ever — the day when he and his

wife had had their only quarrel. It was
cruelly unfortunate so far as Zeph was concerned,
for she intended no revival of the
attack she had then made — her feeling on that
subject had entirely changed — she was only
pointing her sentence. It embittered her husband
terribly, and for some time it required all
his self-control to make allowance for her — she
was speaking in anger, he told himself at last
she did not mean it, he was sure.

I am very tired,' said Zeph, ' if you have
nothing more to say I think I shall go to bed.'

It was late — he was very sorry for her, and
yet now was the time to say all that was on his
mind — he could not wait until another day. ' I
have more to say,' he replied. 'Do you think
you can bear to sit up a little longer? It is
very important that you and I should understand
each other.'

Indeed it is, Godfrey,' she said sadly, and
tears rose to her eyes as she spoke. She had
been standing all this time — he brought her a
chair and would have liked to take her in his

arms and speak to her lovingly, heart by heart,
for he pitied her so when she was subdued and
gentle, and he loved her so at all times, but
there was something so cold and strange and
unloving about her — except at the rare moments
when she showed feeling — that he dared
not. After all, when she did show feeling it
was only feeling for herself, or, at the most,
gratitude to him for mere worldly benefits, and
if he did show any love for her, ten to one but
she would repel it. She had never loved him
she had scarcely even made any pretence of
it, and when the truth which was going to be
told was told, he would hear this from her own
lips.

And now, Zeph,' said he, ' I want to
know why you have never told me anything
about Mr. John Simonds ? '

Zeph sighed audibly. ' Ought I to have
done so ? ' she asked very humbly.

I don't know. I am not well-informed
on the subject, and I have refrained from asking
any questions except from yourself, but I

could not avoid hearing hints. If you had an
offer of marriage from him, and all but, or
quite accepted him within a few wrecks of the
time when you accepted me — perhaps even
within a few days — I should say that there can
be no doubt of its being your duty to name
such a fact to me.'

Not within a few days ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
indignantly.

Well, do you mind telling me a little
about it ? Will you tell me when something occurred
which seems to have furnished him with
a grievance against you, and makes you desirous
to avoid seeing him ? I don't wish to force
you to talk about things that are disagreeable
to you, but I must say I do not like the idea of
my wife being, as it were, afraid to see any one.'

I will tell you everything,' replied Zeph.
She was very pale now, but she looked boldly
in his face, and he gazed at her for a moment
with affectionate admiration, for he felt assured
that, cost her what it might, no word would
pass her lips that was not absolutely true.

I think I would rather answer questions
than tell you a long story; ask me anything
you wish to know, and I will answer you,' said
she.

You are sure you don't mind ? ' said he,
for he began to think he was pressing her very
hardly.

I am sure I do mind, but as it has come to
this, we must go on. Ask what you like — I
will answer all your questions.'

Thank you. I won't ask many. I understand
Mr. Simonds was known to you and your
family when you were a child ; when did he
first become attached to you ? '

I don't know,' she answered quietly, but
very sadly, ' he loved me from the very first.
He first offered to me when I was sixteen.'

And what did you do ? '

Oh, I was a child, but he knew I liked
him better than any one else ; then he went
away for three years.'

And when did he come back ? '

The day after you and I first met.'

And he renewed his offer ? '
Yes, he renewed his offer.' Zeph spoke
almost scornfully — John was not the kind of
man to change his mind !

And you ? You didn't accept him ? '
No, I could not quite make up my mind.'
Not after having had three years to think
about it ? '

No, not even after having had three years,'
said she, bitterly. ' I asked him for a few days
more.'

Giving him hope ? '
Yes, giving him hope.'
And then when the few days were over ? '
I asked for another week.'
He could not think you were very anxious
to accept him when you asked for so many
delays,' said Daylesford, who was beginning to
think that Mr. John Simonds had been posing
as a man with a grievance with very little
cause.

But Zeph began to weep, and said, ' Oh
yes, he must have expected me to accept him—

VOL. III. H

how could he help expecting it ? I always led
him to hope. Godfrey, don't judge me too
severely ; I could not bear to refuse him,
and yet so many things made me feel that I
could not be happy with him — I am not the
kind of girl to make a poor man happy, and
I knew it.'

'Was that your only reason for refusing
him ? ' he asked. ' You loved him ? '

She could not raise her eyes from the
ground, but she would not deny the truth, and
as soon as her voice would obey her, she said
Yes.'

You loved him and refused him .? '

I did it as much for his sake as my own.
I should not have made him happy. Godfrey,
you need say and think no more about John
Simonds — in the way of pity, I mean ; you
have not told me, but I suppose Polly is going
to marry him — that will be the end of it all — ■
she will make him far happier than I could
have done — she is worth fifty of me.'

To her great distress, Daylesford did not

gainsay her. He was silent for a while, and
then said, ' I suppose Mr. Simonds had not the
mastership when he spoke to you P '

'Yes, he had,' answered Zeph, who felt
shame closing her in on every side.

Then why did you not marry him, when
you loved him? And how could you marry
me ? You never loved me, Zeph.'

Zeph, miserable girl that she was, longed
to fall on her knees and say, ' I did not love
you when I married you, I own it with shame,
but I do love you now, so help me God, I do
love you now ! ' These very words had already
framed themselves in her mind — could
she summon up courage to utter them ? How
hard it was to say anything at all when he
looked so cold and stern. How doubly hard
to say such a thing as that now, for his love
was extinct ! Before she had braced up her
nerves to do it, he had made it impossible by
saying, ' Poor Zeph, you have turned life into
a very bitter thing for both of us ! I have felt
that there was something wrong about our

h2

marriage from the very first, and now I suppose
it must be wrong to the end ! '

Oh no, no ! ' exclaimed Zeph, making a
great effort. ' We must '

What can we do that can alter the cruel
fact ? You never loved me — you loved another
man ! You would have married him if
he had not been poor. What a curse money
is ! It sucks the honour out of every one and
everything ! '

Zeph was so stung by the contempt of his
words and tone, and by seeing how completely
his love had slipped away from her, that she
sprang to her feet and passionately exclaimed,
Don't blame me too much ! You have no
right to take this tone with me. After all, my
conduct was not worse than your own ! It
was not so bad ! I don't think it was so bad
by a thousand degrees ! When you told me
you loved me you were actually living with a
woman whom you must have said you loved,
or, I think, bad as she was, she would not have
been here ! '

You are partly mistaken,' said Daylesford,
as soon as he recovered the shock of finding
that she knew this, — ' My conduct was bad,
but not quite so bad as you think. I struggled
against my love for you, and avoided you for a
long time because I wanted to be faithful to
her. When I offered to you she had left my
house for some time, and though I took steps
to find out where she was, I did not succeed in
doing so until it was too late.'

'Do you regret that?' enquired Zeph, bitterly.


Don't ask me,' said he, sadly, ' at all events
she loved me.'

Horrible creature ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with
great repugnance, ' I cannot bear to hear of
her ! It makes me miserable to think of your
having lived in that way — it always has made
me miserable ! '

I will not allow you to call her names,'
said Daylesford, warmly. ' She was a noble
good woman ; God bless her, always ! She
lived with me because she loved me, poor girl

you lived with me without loving me ; she
dispensed with the sacrament of marriage —
you profaned it ! You seem to think that
there is no wickedness in profaning it, and a
great deal in dispensing with it altogether. I
do not agree with you — both courses are
wrong, but I know which I consider the worst.
You came to my home pretending to feel a
wife's love for me, while all your love was
given to another man — your life was a lie — it
was a thousand times — noy a million times
more wicked than anything poor Hester ever
did 1 She is a noble woman, and I sincerely
wish I had never '

Don't say it ! ' interrupted Zeph, in an
agony of distress, 'I entreat you not to say
that you wish you had never parted from her.
This is terrible ! Godfrey, I will try to be more
what you wish — don't make me feel your scorn
too much.'

We must both try to be different, Zeph,'
said he, earnestly. ' Our lives have to be
passed together, even though love be absent.'

She raised her aching eyes to his, and painfully

endeavoured to learn the meaning of his
words. Did he mean that love for her was
now, and for ever would be, absent from his
heart ? Alas for her if it were so, for she
could never be indifferent to its loss ! She
could read nothiuo- and dared to ask nothing.
What was she that she should venture to make
such enquiries ? How could she hope for such
a good gift ? She never must hope for it — his
words of scorn still rang in her ears, and would
ring for ever.

'I will go now,' said she, hopelessly and
wearily ; and before he could answer her, she
had risen to her feet, gathered up the train of
her long white ball-dress, and, without daring
to look at Daylesford, had quietly left the
room. And he watched her go, paralysed by
what had occurred between them — his heart
seemed turned to stone. All that he could do
was to watch her go, repeating to himself the
while the self same words which had been in
his mind as he went through the hall on his
way to find her on his return home that very
afternoon. ' Poor Zeph ! It is a bad business ! '

He sat until the grey light of morning
began to steal into the room, and then from
very weariness he fell asleep. He awoke with
a clear recollection of all that had occurred to
make him unhappy, and with a consciousness
that the day would have to be lived through
somehow. Zeph did not come down to breakfast,
and he did not go to her room.

She seems to be unusually tired after the
dance ! ' said Agnes ; ' I begin to think that it is
almost a pity we went. Godfrey,' she added,
Zeph says she wishes you would let her go to
Eastbourne, or Bournemouth, or somewhere,
for a week or two with me. She does not like
to ask you herself, I think, and said she wished
I would, for a change of air will do her good.'

Perhaps it will,' said he. 'Of course she
shall go, if she likes.'

He was very glad that she had proposed
this — when she returned they would be able to
begin their lives afresh, and some day perhaps
but he could not finish that thought.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

THE STUDIO.

Worse and worse ; doubts and incredulity,
They make me mad. — Middleton's Witches.

Daylesford was not a man to yield to misery
without making an effort to escape from it ;
but what was he to do ? It was in vain to
hope for any change in Zeph, it was in vain to
hope for anything but the blessing of work.
Work would dull the pain of his wounds, and
enable him to feel that there was still something
to live for. But what could he do ? He
could never have a profession — it was too late.
He could not go into Parliament as he would
have liked — family circumstances were an
effectual barrier to that. He was all but
seven-and-twenty, and had a title which he
knew he had no right to assume, estates which

were not his to enjoy, a brother whom he
loved and never could see, and a wife — ah !
that was the bitterest of all — a wife who did
not love him ! It seemed a dreary thing to be
so young and strong and full of vigour, and to
know that the days of a man's life were threescore
and ten, and that so many of his own
were yet to come. Half of the years he had
passed had been years of youth and semi-unconsciousness,
all that were to follow would
be full of sorrow and regret, until at last the
sleep of Death would bring rest and peace.
How was the time which lay before him to be
passed by one who had such a miserably poor
equipment to help him to pass it happily?
He had loved his brother so much that while
they remained together he had never cared to
have any other friend. Since they had been
separated, Daylesford had made some friends,
but none with whom he was thoroughly intimate.
He must work and live on alone. But
how was he to work — how was a man who
could never enter into any profession to find

work in which he could steep himself so completely
that the tormenting thoughts which
Averse always presenting themselves would discover
few moments when they could be freely
entertained ? He did not torment himself
about Zeph alone, conscience began to be
busy, and he remembered how he had treated
Hester Langdale. His life was now bare of
love. Who could have loved him more truly
and unselfishly than she ? He had done a
cruel wrong to her, and now he was reaping
his just reward. His punishment was an exceedingly
bitter one, but he owned that it was
his due.

Perhaps it was the memory of Hester
Langdale which, after a while, made his
thoughts revert to the mornings which had
been so happy and so fully occupied when he
worked by her side at his drawings. She had
always encouraged him to cultivate his talent,
and had assured him that all he wanted was
perseverance. He had usually given up when
he got into any difficulty, and she had always

told him that that was just the time to go on.
He had a strong love of art ; perhaps if he
began to work at it again it might prove a
solace. He gathered together his materials
and began to paint in earnest. That is, he tried
to do so, for he could not get on, something
was amiss, something was always wanting.
It was Hester's never-failing encouragement
which was wanting ; he recognised that at last,
and then the doubt assailed him — perhaps in
her pity and kindness she had encouraged him
far beyond his deserts — possibly he had no
talent whatsoever.

He took his poor faulty attempts to an
artist friend and said, ' Tell me what to do. Is
my work hopelessly bad, or is it worth while to
go on ? '

Of course you must go on ; there is a
great deal of merit in your work, but you want
knowledge, your drawing is imperfect ; you
want training, you ought to draw the figure.
Get a good model, and learn to draw the
figure — that is, if you must draw, though why

you who have plenty of money should want to
enter into all the worry and misery of an
artist's life, Heaven only knows ! ' Daylesford
knew, so he hired a big studio, and rather enjoyed
furnishing it artistically, and providing
himself with casts and everything else he
seemed to think he required. What sumptuous
provision he did make, and what magnificent
works have been produced at the cost of a few
shillings ! He was glad he had thought of this
occupation ; it gave a slight zest to an existence
which was otherwise devoid of all interest. He
prevailed on a very good artist to superintend
his labours a little, and as he himself gave the
whole of his time to drawing, he soon began to
make progress.

Two months passed, Zeph was still at
Bournemouth. Once he went down there to
see her. He did not work so well for some
days after this, it stirred up many a sorrow
which had been partly dulled by hard labour.
He wrote to her. She wrote him dutiful
letters telling him what she and Agnes said and

did, and sometimes these letters were almost
affectionate. ^ Poor child, she is trying to fulfil
her vows,' thought Daylesford, ' but nothing
will make her love me,' and he buried himself
in work again. At last she came home, and
Agnes repaired to Lome Gardens. He was
very glad when Zeph came back, though she,
who was now never at ease in his presence,
doubted and feared lest hers should only
trouble him. He had told her about his
studio in his letters, but she had not understood
from them how large a part it now played
in the scheme of his life.

You never come home to luncheon, now,'
she said one evening.

Fo,' replied Daylesford, ' I have no time
to come. Besides, I can get as much as I
want at the studio.'

'You seem to be very tired to-night,' she
said kindly.

Yes, I stand the whole day. I do wonder
how those professional men can do it so easily.'

How do you know that they do it easily ? '

They must. I see some of them about in
the evenings at different places, and they are
all men who are working hard during the day.
I could not do it ; I get quite enough standing
during the day without having to stand about
in people's hot rooms half the night.'

But you will have to go out ; you cannot
shut yourself up altogether.'

I don't mind dining out, for one must dine
somewhere, but I will not go to the miserable
things that people are pleased to call " receptions."
'

He saw that she looked disappointed, and
added, ' Of course I don't want to condemn
you to seclusion, for the sake of my poor
attempts at painting ; when you really want
me very much to go anywhere with you, I
will — and you can go out alone sometimes,
can't you ? '

This was kind enough as far as intention
went, but the first time she put him to the test
unnecessarily, perhaps on an occasion when
she could easily have gone alone — he showed

much reluctance. She never asked him to go
out to evening-parties again, but she had so
little pleasure or happiness in her own home
that she could not forego the chance of finding
a little out of it, and she went constantly. He
did not seem to object. She often wished he
would object ; anything would have been
better than this passive indifference. She believed
that she might say or do what she
chose, provided she abstained from saying anything
against his brother, did not worry him
to go to some evening party when he had
already dined out and wanted to go home,
and did not intrude on him in his studio.

That studio seemed to be a perfect delight
to him. He went to it directly after breakfast.
He never returned till dinner, and was not
infrequently late for that. If she asked him
where he had been all day, he said, ' You
know, dear ; at the studio.'

Have you never left it ? ' she sometimes

asked.

No ; I don't want to leave it,' he replied.

Don't you want exercise ? '

I get quite enough of that in walking
backwards and forwards to the studio.'

The studio — the studio — she could not help
thinking that he repeated the word oftener
than was needful, on purpose. She hated the
very name of it.

Do you never want to see any one .^ You
must tire of being alone.'

I am working so hard that I have no time
to remember that there is any one whom I
could want to see. You don't know what an
engrossing thing work is ! '

Unhappily for her, she did ; he had
already taught her. She detested work.
Here was Godfrey enjoying life merely because
he could stand all day long at his painting, and
enjoying it so much that he never seemed to
think how very unhappily they were living together
— it never appeared to make the least
difference to him that they should live as they
did, only exchanging a few careless words
when they met, and meeting so seldom tha

VOL. III. I

they might, in reality, be said to be almost
living apart. For some months, now, their life
had been on this wise. He had come home so
tired that he never seemed able to enter into
any conversation. If she spoke he answered
her, of course, but only with half his mind, and,
as she thought, in a duty manner. (Thus did
she often interpret his constraint.) She had
soon taken offence at this, and had henceforth
said as little as possible. They had dined in
comparative silence, and then Zeph had gone
away to some evening party — sometimes with
a friend, more frequently alone — and Dales
weary with his long day's work, had
fallen asleep in his chair and gone to bed long
before his wife's return. Once or twice it had
happened that the husband who had some
piece of work on hand in which he was specially
interested, had got up unusually early to
go off to his studio to get on with it, and had,
as he went down, fresh from a long night's
rest, met on the stairs his young wife, looking
as people do look after a night's dancing. The

morning sun streamed in on her pale face, and
he could not help mentally comparing her appearance
with that of the faded and crumpled
flowers which he saw hanging about the front
of her dress. ' Zeph ! ' he had exclaimed, in a
tone of mild remonstrance and wonder, but she
had fancied she detected a good deal of ill-suppressed
contempt in it — ' you are just
coming home as I am going out ! '

She had answered briefly, with downcast
eyes, and had glided past him as quickly as she
could, hiding her torn dress, turning away her
pale face, and trying to hide her shame that he
should see her at such a time. It was his own
fault — she often told herself so. It was very
certain that she would not have cared to live
this life of perpetual gaiety, if he had cared to
have her at home with him. He had made
her what she was — a creature who lived only
for dress and society. That studio was the
misery of her life ! It took him away from her.
It made him happy when he was away from
her — it was the one thing for which he lived.

I 2

It was only a mile and a half off — he had never
asked her to go and see it.

What is your studio like ? ' she said one
day. She was pining to see it.

Oh, it is just like any other studio,' he
answered carelessly. ' They are all very much
alike.'

Describe it a little,' she said, hoping that
he would find it easier to ask her to go and see
it for herself.

But no ! He replied at once, ' It is hung
with some rather fine tapestry, and there are
one or two good bits of old furniture, but there
is nothing particular to describe.'

I should like to see it, Godfrey,' she said,
making a great effort. ' Could I ? '

Of course you could ; I had no idea that
you would be interested in it ; but I should like
to show it to you, if you care to see it.'

Then I will go with you tomorrow, or
perhaps drop in later.'

Oh, you must not do that. You must goat
a fixed time, for Skirrow is painting therewith

me just now ; we are both working from
the same model.'

Bnt I should not stay long, I know that
time is valuable, I would scarcely interrupt him
at all;

You couldn't go when he was really at
work,' said Daylesford, decidedly ; he knew a
great deal more about artists' ways than Zepli
did ; ' I will arrange a time when you can come.'

Zeph said no more. She could not conceive
why he and Mr. Skirrow should mind
being interrupted for five minutes or so. That
was quite as long as she should have cared to
stay. She would just have gone in and looked
round and gone away again. In fact, all that
she had wished to ascertain was whether
Daylesford objected to her going or not. She
said no more. It was evident that he did.
She had a dread which she hardly admitted to
herself — a terrible haunting dread. Hester
Langdale had been an artist. She and Godfrey
had always painted together before, they were
perhaps painting together now ! This fear had

been in her mind for some time — it was rapidly
becoming a certainty. She grew pale and thin,
and could neither eat nor sleep. Daylesford's
studio was in Somerset Place, Chelsea. Zeph
knew that, but did not know the number.
What is the number of your house in Chelsea ? '
she said, one day — she would not use the obnoxious
word, studio — she tried to speak as
carelessly as she could.

'I am sure I don't know, dear,' said he,
with real carelessness — hers, alas, had been a
very poor imitation of it. Her jealousy flamed
up at once ; he must know the number of his
own studio ! Why did he not wish to tell it to
her?

Has any one ever used it to paint in before ? '
she asked, for her woman's wit had suggested
something to her.

Oh dear yes ! ' he replied. ' Skirrow had
it last year, that is how I got to know of it.'

Oh,' said Zeph, and her remark did not
appear to be very connected, but she said no
more. As soon as he was gone she began to

search for old catalogues of the Royal Academy,
to see if that address was given as Mr. Skirrow's,
and at once had the satisfaction of finding
Skirrow, Peter Charles, 17 Somerset Place,
Chelsea, S.W.'

So far so good, but perhaps Mr. Skirrow
was not there quite so much as Godfrey seemed
to wish her to believe. Perhaps there were
days when he never went near the place.
Hester Langdale could paint too — Daylesford
no longer loved his wife — that scheming woman
might have found out where he was, and have
used her opportunity, and be trying to win him
back again.

That very day Zeph found some excuse for
driving twice through Somerset Place. No. 17
consisted only of a room or two. One of them
was a very large one, with a great overgrown
window which ran up into the roof, and there
were two or three dwelling-rooms besides. It
was not a house which possessed any graces of
construction, it meant work and business, the
red brick of its walls made it look cheerful, but

Zeph gazed on it as the grave of all her hopes.
She dared not enter. She did not know who
did enter. She must not linger in the street.
She had already, perhaps, aroused her coachman's
suspicions by requiring him to drive
through the street slowly. It was not a street
to linger in for the sake of enjoying the pleasures
of sight. Small houses made up one side
of it, with the studio breaking in on their
symmetry, and small houses and small shops
repeated themselves on the other. And yet
Zeph had not seen half so much of this street
as she wanted. Next morning, no sooner
had Daylesford left the house than she dressed
herself plainly, put on a thick veil, and
walked down to Chelsea.

With much trepidation she suddenly found
herself in Somerset Place, and was just in time
to see a girl standing at the door of JSFo. 17 — a
young girl dressed in olive-green.

Zeph's heart stood still. She felt that this
was Hester Langdale — that which she had
greatly feared had come upon her. The girl's

back was turned, Zeph could not see her face,
but her figure was young, graceful, and tall,
and she tripped lightly into the house as soon
as the door was opened, as if her feet were
familiar with the way. Zeph's feet failed her
her heart failed her still more, she caught
hold of some palings and stood supporting herself
by them. She must get home somehow.

Want a cab, miss ? ' asked a hansom
cabman, who had been watching her uncertain
demeanour for some time. Zeph felt as if
Heaven had still some kindness for her. She
got home at last, crept upstairs, and locked
herself in her own room to make herself miserable
all the rest of the day. ' I am not going
downstairs, Lawley,' said she in the evening.'
I don't want any dinner, my head aches — it
has ached all day.'

Will you have it served upstairs ? ' suggested
Lawley. ' Mr. Daylesford is not coming
back to dinner.'

Zeph shook her head — what Lawley had
said did not stimulate her appetite. ' How do

you know Mr. Daylesford is not coming back?*
she asked.

Some one has brought a message. I am
not sure who it was. Shall I ask, ma'am ? '

No, don't ask. Why should you ? it
makes no difference ; and don't bring any
dinner here, I want none.'

Zeph was ill that day, but she was much
more ill the next; however, nothing could
keep her at home. This time she took a
hansom all the way from her own door, and
when she reached the studio she bade the man
drive up and down Somerset Place until further
orders. Then she thrust herself back into the
corner as much out of sight as possible, and
-waited and watched. She saw no one, but
presently began to be afraid that her husband
would hear the sound of the hansom and lookout.
Cabs were not unknown in Somerset
Place, but they were comparatively rare. She
dismissed hers and began to walk. She passed
the studio, and went to the end of the street.
When she turned round she saw that the same

girl had approached from a side street and was
now walking about fifty yards in front of her
towards No. 17. She wore the same olive-green
dress, and hat — Zeph recognised it in a
moment, and pressed forward to overtake her.
It was a cap rather than a hat which covered
this girl's head — a cap like that worn by
Raphael in his portrait of himself, and beneath
it was a thick mass of crisp, wavy, bronze-red
hair which sparkled in the sunlight. Zeph
could not help looking at it, could not deny
that it was beautiful, and that this creature
whom she instinctively hated carried her head
like a queen, and walked with an easy grace
the like of which she herself had never yet
seen. Zeph was gaining on her rapidly when
she remembered that this girl would ring or
knock at No. 17, and that it was quite within
the bounds of possibility that Godfrey himself
might open the door for her. She turned
back at once, but looked round continually.
She was soon glad that she had turned back,
for who should appear from one of the houses

near but Dr. Simonds — John's father. She had
never seen him since her marriage — how odd
it was that she should see him here. What
was still more odd was, that the olive-green
girl, who was, as Zeph believed, none other
than Hester Langdale, was acquainted with
him too. With much show of surprise at thus
meeting him, she stopped and held out her
hand. The doctor seemed pleased to see her ;
they talked for a few minutes, and then she
said something anxiously, which Zeph could
easily interpret as a request to know the time,
for the doctor pulled out his watch and showed
it to her, on which, with the quick movements
of one who knows that she is too late for
an appointment, she sprang up the steps, and
stood there exchanging last words with the
doctor until the door was opened. She was
admitted without a moment's hesitation.

Zeph was so astounded that she entirely
forgot that she ought not to let Dr. Simonds
see her ; but this lapse of memory cost her
little. He came quickly towards her ; she was

still standing by the window of an oil-shop,
pretending to be struck by some of its unattractive
contents, when the doctor walked past
her without so much as being aware that anyone
was there. This danger being over, Zeph
ventured to look once more at No. 17. It was
to be her last look, for she was now going
home ; she had seen enough — God help her —
and must get home. Her husband was just
coming out, and his face was set towards her.

She darted into the oil-shop. ' I want — I
want — ' said she — ' Oh, a box of matches.'
She was thankful for this happy thought. But
while the showman was getting her some
matches of a superior and lady-ike make,
Daylesford appeared in the doorway, which was
surrounded by dangling festoons of blacking-brushes,
and began to try to pierce his way
inside. Zeph hastily retreated behind a huge
tower near the end of the shop built of
bundles of firewood. This effectually concealed
her, but her heart was beatings
violently that she was forced to sit down on

an unopened cask of cranberries. If Godfrey
came round the fortification behind which she
had retreated she was for ever undone.

'I have just discovered that I am out of
turpentine, can you let me have some H ' said
he. What a dear voice it was !

Turns,' said the master of the shop
with a majestic wave of the hand to an
underling ; he himself preferred to wait on
the beautiful young lady who was the first
comer.

I had rather not have the very commonest
kind,' said Daylesford. ' Have you a
better kind ? Can I see it ? '

Zeph trembled in every limb, for he seemed
to be moving towards her, but he came no
nearer, and soon he had taken his turpentine
and was gone. He was gone, but she dared
not leave the shop for some minutes. She
paid for her matches, and began to speak to a
child who was sitting on the floor in a corner
with a cat in her arms. The child made no
response to Zeph's advances. ' I wouldn't take

much notice of her, Miss,' said the father, ' she
is not altogether well. She's sickening for
something — that's why she's so cross.'

What is it? ' asked Zeph, in much alarm.

Oh we hope it's nothing worse than the
measles, but she's very red.'

Zeph thought it wise to go, and was soon
out of the shop. She glanced uneasily up the
street. Daylesford had disappeared — he was
once more within those hateful brick walls,
and she must go home. She set out at once,
bemoaning the futility of her morning's work.
Never again would she haunt Somerset Place !
What had she gained by doing it now ?
A sight that had made her wretched, and
an opportunity of sowing the seeds of some
illness.

Daylesford came home late.

You are late ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with some
severity.

I am afraid I am. I have been in a difficulty
with my work. I cannot get on half so
well when Skirrow does not come.'

Doesn't he always come ? ' said Zeph,
eagerly. ' Has he not been there to-day ? '

'No, nor yesterday either. When he is
busy at home with work that is important, he
very often does stay away.'

Zeph had been sure of it before, and yet
now that she heard it from his own lips it
seemed to overwhelm her.

You look ill, dear,' said he, with much
concern ; ' I hope '

Never mind me,' replied Zeph, coldly.
'It is nothing! I don't wish you to think of
me.'

He looked at her with eyes full of pain and
wonder. She saw it and hastened to add, ' I
am not ill — it is the heat ' Then after a pause
she added, ' Does any one ever come to the
studio besides Mr. Skirrow ? Any visitors I
mean ? '

No, never,' he replied. ' Never by any
chance.'

He had denied it. And yet that very day
she had seen that girl arrayed in olive-green

entering the studio door with all the familiarity
of hon£[ custom. She had never until now
believed it possible that her husband could
utter a falsehood.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE Olive-green CAP.

Begone,
Leave me without reply, this is the last
Of all our meeting. — Pilaster.

Hear me forswear his roof by night,

His bread and salt by day,
His talking at the wood-fire hearth.

His greetings by the way. — E. Barrett Browning.

I AM thinking of running over to Paris fora
day or two to see the Salon,' said Daylesford,
one evening ; ' Skirrow wants me to study the
pictures.'

Is he going too ? ' enquired Zeph.

Skirrow ? Oh no, not yet at least — he is
too busy.'

Zeph's heart filled with uneasiness in a
moment. ' Am I to go ? ' she asked, with
a lurking hope that he would say yes.

I think you had much better not ; you do

not look equal to the exertion, and as I am not
intending to stay more than four or five days, it
would be all fatigue. Ask your sister to stay
with you while you are alone, and be as quiet
as you can.'

He meant, ' go to as few parties as possible,'
— but he had no need to advise that — for
the last three weeks or more Zeph had refused
all invitations except such as he himself was
willing to accept. As for being quiet in any
other sense, how could she obey him .^ What
did he imagine her to be made of? And why
should he provide her with a companion now,
she wondered ; surely by this time she was
accustomed to being alone .^ She spent most
of her time in silence, thinking of these
and other, and still more bitter grievances.
Daylesford pitied her from the bottom of his
heart, but he could say nothing to comfort her
she repelled all his advances.

He went to Paris, and Zeph went to Lome
Gardens to ask Agnes to come and stay with

her while he was away.

%i

k2

My dear Zeph, you must be going to far
too many parties, or you would not be so pale.
If you don't take care you will make yourself
look quite ill and old said Agnes.

I don't care if I do,' replied Zeph, ' why
should I ? '

'What do you mean?' asked honest Agnes,
amazed to hear such words from her sister.
Are you unhappy about anything ? '

She looked so sincerely distressed that Zephyrs
recalled to her senses, and said, 'Yes; I
should have liked to go to Paris with Godfrey ;
I want some new dresses. I could have seen
about them while he was looking at his tiresome
old pictures ; but he told me I looked ill,
and must stay at home.'

Agnes was appeased. Zeph went to the
study — she had seen very little of her father
and mother of late, for she had been afraid of
breaking down and telling them how utterly
wretched she was. Mr. Treherne greeted her
with his usual smile.

Do you ever wish you had me back with

you, father? ' she asked, almost hoping that he
would say, ' Yes, my child, I wish you would
come home again.'

He kissed her, and said, ' I like to know
that you are happy. And I have your dear
mother to help me with my work — she never
fails me.'

Mrs. Treherne, who had been sitting all the
morning turning a pen round and round between
her finger and thumb, and waiting till
he gave her something to do, looked delighted,
and said, ' Zeph, have you read the splendid
review of your father's book in the Times
It has made us so happy ! We have a great
many things to make us happy just now, and
you are one of them, dear.' Zej)h cut her
visit short, — not for worlds would she have
darkened their lives with her heavy cares.
Agnes and she went away together, but not to
the perpetual gaiety which had been the joy of
their existence the last time they were under
the same roof. Now, Zeph would go nowhere,
and sat moping from morning till night.

On the morning of the day when Daylesford
was to return, a letter came from Miss Everilda
announcing that Polly was engaged to John
Simonds. Miss Everilda's letter was to Zeph,
but Agnes had a letter of her own frown Polly.
It was brimming over with happiness. She
and John loved each other truly, and were, as
they fondly believed, entering on a life which
was henceforth to be one of never-failing happiness.
Agnes read Polly's letter, which, of
course, did not cause her any surprise ; then
she looked to see how Zeph was taking
the news brought by hers. She had let it
fall on her lap, and was thinking of John,
and how he had loved her once, and of
what she had gained by being false to
him. Her thoughts were very bitter ; she
had gained pure misery, and felt that she deserved
it.

'Zeph, dear,' said Agnes, timidly, 'you look
very unhappy ; do you mind his marrying
Polly?'

I .^ Why should I ? ' she replied in a harsh

voice ; ' I certainly could not expect Mm to
keep single for my sake ! '

You will get quite accustomed to the idea
of his marrying her, in time,' pleaded Agnes.

Agnes, you are wrong ! I have no dislike
to the idea now. I want him to be happy ; I
want dear Polly to be happy, too ; why should
every one be miserable ? '

Agnes did not understand her. She was
afraid that Zeph would never be reconciled to
this marriage, and yet why should she mind
about it now ?

Agnes thoroughly misunderstood Zeph,
whose entire heart was now given to her
husband, and whose misery was solely caused
by her belief that he not only hated and despised
her, but had slipped back into his old
bonds. That made her woe, and Polly's happiness
seemed to add an edge to the sharpness of
her own pain.

She was very silent and sad all day. Agnes
watched her with quiet sympathy ; she had
always known that Zeph had once been very

much attached to John Simonds, but had
never grasped the possibility of her going on
caring for him after her marriage. She was
afraid her poor sister had acted very wickedly
in marrying,; but if she had, she was certainly
suffering for it now. No one could have been
kinder than Agnes during all this long day,
and though Zeph's anguish was caused by
something very different from what Agnes
suspected, her sympathy was soothing and
grateful. Daylesford was to come home in the
evening, Agnes wanted to have all signs of
grief cleared away before he appeared.

This time he was pleased to see her there —
this time her presence was a relief rather thana
restraint. Zeph was upstairs when he came.
Her mind had been so racked by anxiety ever
since he went away, that night after night
had passed and she had not closed her eyes,
and now sheer weariness and the desire to
hide her condition from her husband had
made her lie down to take some rest before he
returned.

Where is Zeph ? ' said he, impatiently.

Upstairs, lying down,' replied Agnes.

She is not ill, I hope ? ' said Daylesford, in
alarm.

No — well, yes, she is, rather. She does
not seem able to sleep — she never gets any
rest. I persuaded her to lie down a while this
afternoon.'

He looked so much grieved that Agnes
hastened to add, ' She will be all right when
she comes downstairs again. A little sleep
was all that was wanted to cure her ; but she
won't like not to be told of your return. I'll
go to her room very quietly, and see if she is
awake, and tell her.'

Better give her a little more time to rest,'
said Daylesford, though he had a great wish to
see her at once. ' Is there any news ? Has
anything happened since I went away ? '

Yes, great news ! Polly is engaged to be
married to Mr. Simonds ! We only heard of it
this morning. Not that there is any particular
newness in the news, after all, for we have

known for a long time that this was very likely
to happen.'

They had only heard of this engagement in
the morning, and Zeph was ill now, or, if not ill,
unable to meet his sight ! She had been very
strange of late, and he had borne her strangeness
as patiently as he could, for she was evidently
suffering. He had known only too well
why she was suffering. She had discovered
how much she loved this man, too late. That
was what had troubled his married life, and
now that the last touch had been put to her
loss she had broken down. Agnes stole away
to see if her sister were asleep or awake, but ina
very few minutes she came running back,
screaming, ' Godfrey, Godfrey, come quickly !
Zeph is very ill ; she is lying on the floor by her
bedside, and looks so dreadful ! Come at once ! '

There was no need to urge him to haste, he
was upstairs almost immediately, and found his
dear young wife lying on the floor in her room,
and looking as if she would never rise again.
All colour had faded from her lips and face.

and she was entirely unconscious. He took her
in his arms and laid her on the bed, but it was
some time before she opened her eyes again.
When she did, they fell on Agnes's kind,
anxious face. Daylesford was standing just
behind her, but when Zeph saw him, she
averted her eyes with every sign of dislike,
and said, in a low voice, ' Make him go away,
Agnes ! Unless you wish to kill me, make
Godfrey leave the room.'

Zeph darling,' said Daylesford, who was
quite overcome by her illness and by this unexpected
treatment, ' don't drive me away ! I
love you so, and am so anxious about you —
I want to stay with you.'

Oh no, no, you do not love me,' said Zeph,
faintly, ' go away ! I cannot bear to see you !
I want to go somewhere where I can get quite
away from you ! ' She looked as if she were
going to faint again.

My dear Zeph,' began Daylesford ; but
Agnes, who had her own ideas as to Zeph's
illness, went to him and led him away, saying :

Go now, she will soon be herself again.
Let her have her way now.'

Before they had reached the door he heard
Zeph say, ' Thank you, Agnes dear, but don't
you leave me, or I shall have no one — I
am all but alone in the world — I have no
husband.'

Dear Zeph,' said he, returning, but she insisted
on his going away without another word.
Daylesford feared that her mind was affected,
and sent a messenger to hurry the doctor still
more, or, if he could not come, bring another ;
but when the doctor did come, he said he could
discover no symptoms of insanity in his patient,
only great depression of spirits and feebleness
of pulse.

Surely there is something more than depression,'
whispered Agnes to Daylesford ; ' she
was almost violent when she declared that she
did not want to live with you, and drove you
away.'

But the doctor was firm. ' So far as I can
judge,' said he, ' she is in perfect possession of.

her senses — she is feeble from sleeplessness and
want of food— you say she has had very little
of either of late, and she seems to have something
on her mind. She must be humoured
and kept very quiet, these things are most
critical — her mind has received a shock.'

On this Daylesford and Agnes looked at
each other with a glance that betokened intelligence
; then Agnes repented of a glance which
seemed to admit a fact against her sister, and
said, ' She will be quite well again when she
has had a night's rest, I hope.'

Daylesford went away and sat for hours
buried in thought — that letter had done it —
but she had been more or less unhappy long
before the letter came.

Agnes sat all night by her sister's bedside.
Zeph slept quietly when she did sleep ; when
she was awake she seemed utterly miserable,
yet she made no complaint. She never spoke
voluntarily ; but she did not seem to object to
answering her sister's questions. Seeing this,
Agnes was at last emboldened to say, ' Zephyrs

anything happened ? What has made you
like this ? I know you had that letter, but why
should you wish to leave Godfrey ? Do tell me,
dear, I am so unhappy about you.'

Don't be unhappy — don't try to persuade
me to stay with Godfrey — I cannot do it, I
want you to go and tell him so ! As soon as I
am well enough to leave this house, I shall go.
I shall try to find some quiet place far away
from him and from every one.'

But why ? He is certain to ask me why,
if I go to him.'

Because I cannot live with him any longer,'
replied Zeph, firmly.

Don't you love him ? ' asked Agnes, and
all Zeph's firmness was gone in a moment — •
she hid her face and wept.

She soon recovered herself, however, and
said, ' It is no use to ask me whether I love
him or not, I don't intend to live with him !
Ask him to give me a little money —-just enough
for me to live on quietly somewhere ; I shall
be all alone — very little will do. And get him

to promise to leave me in peace — he must
never come near me, and he must never write.
I can go away — but the effort I make now
is the last I must be called on to make.'

My poor dear Zeph,' said Agnes, kissing
her, ' you would not talk that way if you were
not ill ! '

Zeph shook her head and said, ' You don't
know. I wish you would speak to Godfrey —
I shall not be well until I know that he will
make no difficulty about my going '

As if he would let you go away when he
loves you so ! ' replied Agnes.

Loves me so I You will drive me mad if
you say such things,' said Zeph, ' I must know
best ! I know he will let me go, but I want to
have it settled. It must be settled, for I tell
you plainly I will stay here no longer, and if
you refuse to go and see him about it, I will
have a cab brought as soon as it is daylight,
and will take lodgings somewhere. Go at once.
Tell him if he wishes to show kindness and
mercy, he will let me go without a word.'

Daylesford was in the library, his anxiety
was much too great to allow him to think of
taking any rest. Agnes went to him and gave
a softened version of Zeph's words and wishes.
He thought he possessed a key to what was so
unintelligible to Agnes. She thought she possessed
one to what must be so puzzling to him.
Each thought, ' Poor Zeph, she has loved John
Simonds very truly ! '

'The doctor told us that she was to be
humoured,' said he, ' and she shall be humoured,
it is right that she should be. Soothe her;
tell her I will consent to anything she likes,
perhaps she will sleep if you do.'

What ! am I to say that she may go ? '
began Agnes.

Oh no, don't say that, unless nothing else
will satisfy her ; say if she is anxious to be
alone for a while, I will go. I will go back to
Paris — I will go to my brother's — I will do
anything, but I must beg her to stay in her
home. Tell her I won't come back till she
gives me leave. If that won't do, tell her she

may go ; tell her anything, promise anything
to give her peace and rest, it will be time
enough to talk of explanations when she is herself
again.'

How good you are, Godfrey ! ' exclaimed
Agnes, warmly.

'Not good at all. I am so afraid that I
have been unkind to her lately.'

I am sure you have not,' said Agnes, and
then she went to Zeph and told her that Godfrey
was breaking his heart about her.

Zeph laughed her to scorn, and told her that
she did not want to hear anything about him
or what he felt except on one subject, and that
was her own departure. Agnes repeated part
of the conversation she had just had with him,
but Zeph exclaimed, ' He shall not go, he shall
not be driven out of this house ! It is his !
Everything is his. It is my place to go, and I
will go.'

Well, dear, he says you shall have your
own w^ ay about everything ; but surely you will
not go without some explanation ; how could

VOL. III. L

you leave your home and your husband in such
a way ? You had better let hin go, he is quite
willing to do it. and will not ask you to see
him until you are well and able to talk to him
about what is making you so unhappy. Would
you rather he went and lived at the studio fora
while ? He could do that, he said, and then
when you were well again you can see him and
let him assure you of his love.'

Zeph had shuddered at the mention of the
studio, but when Agnes began to talk of his
giving assurances of his love, her anger rekindled,
and she interrupted her at once — ' Be
silent, Agnes, I don't want him to assure me of
his love, he never shall. I will never see him
again. I shall never be more able to talk to
him about what is making me unhappy than I
am now, and there is no need, for he must know.
To-morrow I shall leave him and his house forever

1 '

How wicked to do such a thing as that
when you have no reason ! '

I have a reason ! Say no more about it,

you are making me very ill. You are making
me talk of things which give me the greatest
pain ; you know I ought not to talk at all.
Go to Godfrey, you are more his friend than
mine — go to him. I will say no more but that
I intend to leave him.'

Zeph looked so exhausted that Agnes was
alarmed, and yet she could not prevail on her
to lie down and be quiet. ' I am not more his
friend than yours, dear Zeph,' said the poor
tired girl ; ' I love you both ; I will go
now if you wish it, perhaps you will sleep
if I do.' But before Agnes had reached the
door, Zeph said, 'Stop a moment. I will
write a line to him, and you shall take it with
you.'

Agnes sat down feeling sick at heart. All
night long she had done nothing but go backwards
and forwards to Daylesford with cruel
messages, and now Zeph was going to write
something to him which would probably be
crueller still. She watched her pen moving
rapidly over the paper without one moment's

L 2

indecision. How cold and hard and resolute
she looked ! The letter was soon written.

Eead it,' said Zeph, handing it to Agnes,
and then she threw herself back on the sofa
looking pale as ashes. Agnes read this : —
Godfrey, — Thank you for yielding to my
wishes. To-morrow morning early, I go to
Bournemouth where I was before — if not,
somewhere else. We must never meet again.
We ought never to have married. I ask your
pardon for having married you — you ought todo
the same by me. We have been heavily
punished — I much more heavily than you. I
will read no letter from you. Don't attempt to
see me ; I never will see you. I wish to leave
you quietly, but for ever. You will be happier
without me. I could not bear now to go on
living with you — you must not say bitter things
of me — you know why. I make no reproaches.
May God forgive both of us ! I am very
miserable! I don't attempt to conceal it,
but some day, if you will but leave me in
peace, I may come to myself again — here I

never could. Farewell ! Do what you will —
I shall never complain — only keep away from
me.'

Long before Agnes had read to the end of
this, she was crying. Zeph was now lying on
the sofa pale as death, but calm. Agnes was
awed by her attitude and expression, and dared
utter no comment on what she had read. She
stole quietly away to Daylesford. ' Here,' said
she, ' I am to give you this. It is a very cruel
letter, but she is ill, you must not let it make
you unhappy.'

He read it twice, and then wrote a line or
two in answer. ' My dearest wife, I love and
pity you with all my heart. You are ill, and I
feel that I have not been so kind to you as I
ought to have been ; but my love for you has
never wavered, I have pitied you always, I pity
you still more now. You want to be alone fora
while, and perhaps you are right ; but, dear
Zeph, you must stay in your own home. Keep
Agnes with you, and ask Miss Seaton to come
to you. I am going to see my brother, and

when I return, we shall meet, I trust, as if all
this trouble had never been.'

And now, Agnes,' said he, after he had
signed and sealed this, ' I must do some packing.
When Zeph gets up, I shall be gone;
give her this letter, and tell her that I have
gone, and that she must stay here. She will
soon be herself again ; time will do for her
what it has done for so many — at least, that is
my hope. I shall stay a day or two in Paris
for the sake of getting news of her. This is
my address. You must write to me to-day by
the afternoon post. I must know how she
bears my departure, and what the doctor says.
Write again tomorrow, and then, if your
report is favourable, I shall continue my
journey, if not I shall return at once. My
absence will do her good, I think.'

My dear Godfrey,' said Agnes, ' any one
else would be angry — you are behaving like an
angel.'

An angel ! ' said he, ' if I had behaved —
but we shall be happy yet.'

Agnes saw that he did not at all realise the
strength of Zeph's anger, or of her resolution to
leave him. She did not undeceive him. He
went and packed his own portmanteau — a
thing he had never done in his life before, and
by seven o'clock he had left the house. Agnes
had never been so grateful for anything as she
was for having been wise enough to let him go
with a heart full of hope. ' It was the first
shock which made her behave so strangely,' he
had said. 'Each day that goes by will make
her calmer. If she is all right again before I
get away from Paris — you must write and stop
me going farther. I will come back the
moment you say I may.'

Then you think her mind really has been
disturbed by a sudden shock ? ' Agnes had
said.

Yes, by Polly's letter, he had replied, for
all disguise seemed useless. ' In a day or two
you will see that she will care as little for this
as she did when we were first married.'

Agnes feared that there was something on

Zej^h's mind that was not likely to be dissipated
in a few days, but lie was thankful that he
could hope.

Good-bye, Agnes dear ; thank you for your
kindness to me. You shall see what a good
brother I will be to you when I come back.
Don't forget to write to the " Westminster "
both to-day and tomorrow.'

Those had been his last words, and now he
was gone. She went upstairs to Zeph — she
hoped to find her asleep. She heard a noise
of some one moving about, and when she
opened the door she saw that Zeph had been
getting her clothes ready for her maid to pack.
Her dresses were lying in one place, her
mantles in another, and so on, all tidily
arranged each according to its kind.

It comforts me,' said Zeph, apologetically
luxury had worked its will on her, and she
had begun to be ashamed of doing anything
for herself — ' I feel much better when I am
doing something to further my departure.'

You need not think of that ! ' said Agnes,

Godfrey has gone himself ! He is on his way
now to Santa Eulalia. Here is a note he has
left for you.'

I don't want it ! ' said Zeph, resolutely.
Take it away, I will not read it ! '

Zeph ! ' exclaimed Agnes, ' I have always
looked up to you and tried hard to make
myself as like you as I could — I never thought
it possible that you could behave so ill. You
have driven your husband away without a
shadow of reason.'

Zeph did not speak. She sat down, and
looked like one praying for strength to bear
most cruel injustice. At last, and with a great
effort, she said, ' Perhaps if you understood
things better you would speak differently.
You think you understand everything, Agnes,
but you don't. Leave me alone, I want to be
alone.'

Without a shadow of reason,' she repeated,
when the door had closed on her sister.
What would she say, or think, if she knew
what reason I have ? ' She must never know.

What would she say if she did ? What would
Godfrey say ? Would he still give her assurances
of this love ? How dared he do so ?
Only yesterday she had received a convincing
proof of his falseness.

The whole scene came back to her mind
now with picture-like distinctness. She had
been asleep for some time, but had suddenly
awakened, and had found by her watch that her
husband must be at home. She had got up in
an instant — had smoothed her hair, and rejoiced
to see that her sleep had brought a pretty colour
into her pale cheeks, and had then hastened
downstairs to see him whom she was foolish
enough to love. What torture it was to remember
all this now ! Her way had led her
past Godfrey's dressing-room — the door was
open, and his man-servant was just taking his
things out of a portmanteau lying open on
the floor, as Zeph passed by. She saw him
standing with something in his hand, which he
was examining inside and out with an air of
amused surprise. Zeph had seen what it was

at a glance. It was that olive-green cap — that
self-same Raphael-like cap she had seen such a
short while before. Here was proof, and absolutely
overwhelming proof, of all she feared.
Hester Langdale had been in Paris with him —
there was no room for doubt. Zeph had gone
back to her room. Everything had turned
round before her eyes, and she had fallen
senseless to the round.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

'HAVE YOUR WAY.'

Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ?

Romeo and Juliet.

'Is he really gone ? ' enquired Zeph next
day. ' Are you quite sure that he is not living
at the studio ? ' She had been lying on the
sofa most of the day, looking very sad and
thoughtful, and Agnes had been hoping that she
vas feeling regret ; so she said at once, ' Dear
Zeph, you do love him ! I knew you would be
sorry when he was really gone ; for he has
gone.'

Zeph did not seem able to trust herself to
make any reply to this tactless speech, and
Agnes, who could not bear to see pain for
which a remedy was so possible, foolishly hastened
to add : ' He is only going as far as Paris

for the present ; he will stay there for a day
or two, to be within reach of recall — and you
will let me recall him, dear, and make us
all happy ? '

You have his address ? '

Yes, I have his address. I'll write at once,
or will you write yourself — a few words from
you would be worth pages from me.'

I thought you told me that Godfrey was
going to Santa Eulalia,' said Zeph, coldly.

So he is, if you persist in wishing him to
keep away; but though you were not intended
to know it, he is going to stay in Paris for a day
or two to give you time to learn your true
mid, and on the slightest hint of a change in
you, he will come back and all will be well
again.'

It was not in Zeph's nature to reveal to
Agnes her cause of complaint against her husband
— she would spare her sister's loving heart
the pain of hearing of such falseness, and be
loyal in her efforts to preserve Godfrey's good
name ; but it was cruel of him to pretend to

such devotion when his heart was so alienated
from her.

The sooner you put an end to this the
better,' said she. ' It is absurd for him to wait
on in Paris for any change in me ! Give me a
sheet of paper — I will write to him myself.'

She wrote unhesitatingly : ' Agnes tells me
that you are waiting in Paris, thinking that I
may change my mind. Dismiss that idea forever.
I shall never change. I am now well, and
able to form a calm opinion. My calm opinion
is that we must part. I might make charges
and utter reproaches, but as you yourself once
pointed out, my own conduct is not free from
blame. Make some arrangement by which I
can live somewhere apart from you, and I will
never trouble you again. Please accept this as
final, for nothing can alter my decision. I
return unopened the letter you left behind you.'
She addressed this with her own hand and sentit
to the post, and then stole away to indulge
in the agony of sorrow that was fast making its
own of her.

Never mention his name to me again,' she
said to Agnes when they next met. Agnes
obeyed, but she could see that day after day,
from early morning till late night, Zeph's mind
was filled with the thought of him.

In due course a letter came from Dales
At first Zeph was not inclined to open it.
I have told him that I will read no letter from
him, and I detest reading hypocritical professions
of love ! ' said she.

How can you call them hypocritical ? '
began Agnes. Zeph interrupted her and bade
her be silent.

You must read this,' resumed Agnes ; ' you
asked him to make arrangements for your
separation, and no doubt he has done so — you
ought to know what they are.'

Zeph coloured painfully, and her eyes filled
with tears. ' Ah yes,' said she, ' I ought to
know, but I shall be glad when it is over.' She
spoke calmly, but Agnes believed it cost her a
great effort to do so, and that in her heart she
loved him and longed to recall him.

When ZepH opened the letter she read as
follows ; ' I have done all that a man can do,
and have borne more than any man ought to
bear. Have your v^ay — we will never meet
again. I am going to my brother, and then
much farther. I shall not return to England
for years. There is nothing to bring me back
I do not wish to come back — your perverse
and utterly unreasonable conduct shows me
that we can never be happy together. You are
right — it is wiser to part. I make no further
opposition to your wish — in fact, it is my own.
I shall be obliged to you if you will continue to
reside where you are ; I have asked Miss Seaton
to come to you ; my lawyer will give you any
help he can. G. D.'

That was all. She had her way, and thus
without a word of regret or kindness he acceded
to her desire to part — nay, more, he said
it was his own. Every tie between them was
now severed but her dependence on his bounty.
She would have to receive from him once or
twice a year a sum of finney which would

enable her to go on being miserable. Zeph
could have shrieked aloud, her misery was so
great and unexpected. She had not thought it
possible that he would shake her off for ever so
readily. She could not bear to let Agnes see
how overwhelming this shock was — and yet
she had no one to turn to for pity and help but
Agnes.

'Agnes, Agnes,' said she, hoarsely, 'you
have had a letter from him, too, perhaps ? If
you have, let me see yours — it may not be
quite so cruel as this.'

I had rather not show it,' pleaded Agnes,
and then Zeph realised that it was worse than
her own ; he had spoken more openly to
Agnes, and had said all the bitter unloving
things that had long been stored up in his
mind. Agnes watched Zeph with alarm ; she
tried to soothe her, but Zeph soon called. pride
to her assistance and affected to be pleased to
know that he was gone. And now, day by
day, Agnes was more anxious and unhappy,
.for Zeph was growing so unmistakably ill.

VOL. III. ^

Meantime Polly came home. isle was to
be married as soon as the holidays began, and
came to spend sole time with her family. To
Agnes's surprise, Zepli ]had no difficulty iu
meeting her, and took much more interest in
her marriage thai she did in anything else.

How ill she looks ! ' said Polly.

Agnes shook her head. But if they
thought that Zep]i was mourning the loss of
John Simonds and had quarrelled with Dales
for his sake, they were wrong. She had
no love in her heart for any one but her husband
— no feeling of any Ind but perpetual
grief for the loss of his affection. Her coldness
during the last year had driven him brick to
Hester. Hester was probably with him now
wherever he vas, and happy ; he had learnt
her value and would never part from her
again. Ze])h did not know where he was —
she knew nothing of him. He might be at
Santa Eulalia, or he might 1)e in Paris— lie
despised and disliked, and was glad to be rid
of her, and had gone out of her life f :>r ever.

Agnes knew no more tlia'i Zeph — no one
did know anything, unless it were Mr. Blackmore
the lawyer. lie ]had cared once, but
Zepli ]had been too ill to see Inn — now lie
wished that she lead made .an effort — ]perhaps she
would have heard some trilling fact concerning
her husband. Mr. Blacls:inore had seen Agnes
and lead left a cheque for present expenses,
which to Agnes's inexperienced eye represented
at least a year's income, ]put would in reality
perhaps meet the demands made by the outside
world f jr the space of one month. He had
told her that lie w- aid call again very soon.

Did he say how Godfrey was ? ' asked
Zeph, with much interest ; ' it seeius strange to
know nothing' about him.'

He did not know how he was, so I hope
he is well,' replied Agnes ; ' but he said he had
received a letter from him written from some
far-away foreign place — I have forgotten its
name — I will try to remember it — but, after
all, why should I puzzle my poor head, for you
don't care to know it.'

»2

This she said hoping to provoke some expression
of affection. Zeph sighed, and said
gently, ' Agnes, never say such a thing as that
again ! You do not know the pain you give
me.'

I wish he were here,' said Agnes, looking
at Zeph's pale face as she lay propped up with
cushions on the sofa, and thinking that nothing
but reconciliation to Godfrey would ever make
her well again.

I don't,' said Zeph, hopelessly ; ' if he
were, I should be still more miserable.'

Polly came to see her, and looked at her
compassionately with her kind, honest, anxious
eyes. ' Dear child,' said she, when they were
alone, ' you do look ill ! I wish your doctor
seemed to do more for you.'

Zeph was still seeing her doctor. He came
twice or thrice a week, and smiled blandly in
her face, fingered her pulse delicately, and enquired
if there was any particular kind of food
she could fancy, or amusement she could enjoy,
and generally comported himself in such a way

that it was impossible to fail to see that in his
estimation there was nothing the matter with
her body, but a great deal amiss with her
spirits.

My doctor is no good ! ' said Zeph ; ' no
doctor is any good to me but poor dear old Dr,
Simonds — he knows me best.'

Let him come and see you now dear , I
am sure he would, for half a word.'

Zeph shook her head, ' I am sure he would
not ; you don't know how unforgiving Mrs.
Simonds is — she would not let him, even if he
were willing.'

Let me ask him,' said Polly.

Better not,' replied Zeph. Then she
looked up and said, ' You and 1 understand
each other, Polly, though we have never
spoken of these old things. You have no need
to assure me of John's forgiveness, for I know
how good he is, and I have no need to tell
you how thoroughly I rejoice in his and your
happiness. I do rejoice, though I always seem
so quiet. Your engagement takes a weight

off my mii\(I — in every way it is a relief to
Die.'

Polly's warm, vigorous hand was stretched
out at once to take the pale thin hand lying on
her sister's breast. It was cold, and Polly kept
it in the comforting embrace of her own.

Now that I have said so much,' continued
Zeph, ' I will says everything, and then, dear,
you will know that my true heart lies open to
you, but remember that I am speaking in confidence.
I ought not to have married Godfrey ;
it was very wicked of me, but I was young and
ignorant, and hardly knew what I was doing,
and how wrong it was. I behaved cruelly ill
to John. I was punished for it afterwards —
for more than a year after I married Godfrey, I
was unhappy about John ; that may seem very
wicked to you, dear, but my marrying Godfrey
was the wicked part of the business, not my
thinking of John, and fretting about him. I
did think of him, Polly, I could not help it,
and if you had got engaged to him then,
it would have been a terrible trial to me.

Gradually, however. Godfrey's never-failing
kindness and goodness won on me so that I
began to love him most truly, and at last, my
only feeling about John was shame at the way
I had treated him, and grief at the thought of
the harm 1 had done him. It was very painful
to me to feel that perhaps he would think ill
of all women for my sake, and never again have
sufficient trust in any one to dare to love.
When you and he became engaged, all seemed
right. It was even right for me to love him, as
I always shall, for his own sake, as well as for
yours.'

Polly bent over her, kissed her, and said,
Only one thing is wanted to make us all happy
you and Godfrey '

Oh, Polly,' said Zeph, bursting into tears,
that is the worst of it ! There is no happiness
for me ! I shall have to tell you all — he does
not love me ! Just when we might have been
so happy, I found that what I had long feared
was true — I had lost his love.'

Oh, no, no ! Impossible ! ' exclaimed

Polly. ' I heard him talk about you when he
was at Seaton Court, and I know that that is
impossible

Unhappily it is true. I am sure of it —
I have proof. If not, should I be lying here
now, ill, and miserable, and parted from him ?
Polly, you don't know — these things do happen,
and they have happened to me. I said things
which he could never forgive. I behaved so
strangely that he could have no belief in my
affection — there was no ground on which to
base a reconciliation. You don't know how
wretched I have been, and yet I do so love
him.'

But all that seems to be necessary is that
you should own it. You should say you love
him, and show that you do. It is not too
late.'

It is quite too late ! ' replied Zeph, drearily.
You would not have me show my love to a
man who does not care for it? He has left
me for ever ! I shall see him no more.'

But you drove him away ! You insisted

on his leaving you! Zeph, if you have any
love for me, or for him, or for any one, tell me
why you did that ? '

No, Polly,' said Zeph, firmly, ' that I must
keep to myself ; ' but even while she spoke she
was longing to tell her sister all. It would bethe
greatest relief to do so. Polly was stronger
in every way than Agnes, and if she knew,
would give her help and comfort. ' I wonder
whether I dare tell you,' faltered Zeph. ' I
wonder whether what seems to me so dreadful
would strike you in the same way — but I dare
not tell you ; besides, I could not bear to make
you think ill of Godfrey, for I know how much
you like him.'

I shal L always like him, and always respect
him. He is as kind as a woman and as strong
as a man. He could not do a mean action ora
wrongs things.'

That decided Zeph. She could not bear to
lessen her sister's admiration for Godfrey — no,
she would bear her own burden to the end.

I cannot tell you now,' said she, ' I may

never do so, but if I tell anyone it shall be 3^011.
Promise not to let my father and mother know
how unhappy I am ; and yet I am afraid father
must know already, for why should Godfrey go
away as he has, if something were not amiss ? '

'You have forgotten father's ways, Zeph.
He has not the slightest idea of anything of the
kind ; indeed, he has almost forgotten that
Godfrey has gone. Think again, dear, it would
be such a relief to you to tell me. I might be
able to '

Polly,' said Zeph, solemnly, ' don't tempt
me to tell you what I ought not, but do something
for me. Of course you see Dr. Simonds
sometimes. Next time you go there ask him
the name of the girl he spoke to about a month
ago at the door of a studio in Somerset Place,
Chelsea. I can tell you the exact date by
thinking a little, but he will probably remember
if you describe her. Say that she was
a tall, slim, and very graceful girl of three or
four-and-twenty, with ruddy brown hair, and
she was dressed in olive-green. She did not

seem well off, but she was well-mannered. It
was strange that I should see her with Dr.
Simonds. He let her close by Godfrey's studio
door, and they seemed very pleased to see each
other.'

I will do it to-day,' said Polly, ' I am to
dine there this evening. I will take an opportunity
of asking it when Mrs. Simonds is not
there. What name elo you expect him to say ?

The abruptness of this question threw Zeph
off her guard, and she answered immediately,
Hester Langdale,' and then she hid her face in
the cushions, for the very name tortured her.

You seem to worry yourself a great deal
about this Hester Langdale,' said Polly, who
thought her sister most unreasonable.

My dear Polly ! ' said Zeph, struggling
^\ith her grief.

But why do you ? ' persisted Polly.

I cannot tell you — don't ask. You may
know some day.' And having said this, Zeph
either could or would say no more.

Polly sat by lier for more than an hour

trying to stop her crying, doing her best to
win her confidence, but all in vain, and all the
while Zeph looked so ill, so weak, so fragile
and unhappy, that Polly was in the greatest
distress and alarm. She felt so sure that something
ought to be done, and done quickly, to
save her sister, and so uncertain what that
something ought to be. Were ever girls more
desolate than they ? They had parents, but
if Polly went to them for help or advice she
would come back as poor as she went — nay
poorer, for she would have made them unhappy.
Miss Everilda was kindness itself, but
her helpfulness would probably express itself
in a lyric — she would compare Zeph to
the star-like jessamine in the drear north
wind, or the perfumed violet 'mid the plashing
rain, and meantime illness and unhappiness
would keep what they had gained — the upper
hand.

At last Polly had an idea. She rose
suddenly, having taken a resolution. ' I am
going,' said she. ' I may perhaps come back

to you in an hour or so. When does your
doctor generally come ? '

About four ; but he was here yesterday,
so he won't come to-day. I don't care
whether he comes again or not, he is no good
to me.'

Good-bye,' said Polly, without showing
any sympathy for Zeph's dislike of her doctor.
Lie still ; I will soon come back.'

Polly's tone reminded Zeph of the days
long ago when a speech of this kind seemed to
convey a promise to bring back something
good — but no one could bring back anything
that was good in her eyes — all that was good
had gone from her for ever. She said nothing,
but watched Polly leave the room, and hoped
that she would never know such pain as had
fallen to her own lot.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

SOMETHING HAS GONE WRONG.

Not die ; but live a life of truest breath

Aud teach true life to fight with mortal wrongs.

Tekn^ysox.

London was getting very hot, and Polly found
both the heat and the nc^ise distressing after
the coolness aud quiet of Seaton Court. She
walked quickly too, for she had a great project
in her mind. She was bent on taking Dr.
Simonds to cure Zeph. How was she to see
him apart from the ogress who early in life had
made her own of him ? Mrs. Simonds had
never forgiven Zeph, and never lost an opportunity
of proclaiming that she never would do
so. Polly was afraid even to mention her
sister s name in her presence. She knocked
at the doctor's door before she went upstairs.

She Lad been familiar with the ways of the
house ■ ever since childhood, and knew that he
was often at home at this hour. He was not
at home that day. Sie went in search of ]airs.
Minds and soon found Tier. Mrs. Simonds,
who always maintained that doctors' wives
must follow the fashions, was sitting in something
which she was pleased to call a tea-gown.
It was made of grey plush trimmed
with lace, and being, of course, loosely male,
imparted a ^\.\\<c free outline t(; the lady wh->
wore it.

Where is Dr. Simonds ? ' asked Polly,
boldly, though in her heart she was afraid.

Oh, I don't know,' replied Mrs. Simonds.
'What do you want with 1dm? He will be
here by-and-by, I dare say, but I t]i(.)uglit you
had come for a nice comfortable chat with me.'

Comfort and Mrs, Simonds were very wide
apart ; even good, kind Polly thought s.j, anal
smiled a little internally.

No, I want to see the doctor if I can ; I
want him to be so very kind as fo ego back

with me to see my sister Zeph ; she is so ill.
She has a doctor, but he does her no good ;
she has no faith in him, she has no faith in anyone
but your husband ! '

It will be faith without works then,' said
Mrs. Simonds, grimly, ' for she certainly will
not get my husband to demean himself by
going near her ! You must excuse me speaking
plainly, Polly, 1 must speak as I feel.'

Come, dear Mrs. Simonds, be forgiving,'
pleaded Polly ; ' Zeph owns her fault. John
has forgiven her. He has a great regard for
her, and wants everything to be smoothed over,
and all of us to be good friends.'

John is foolishly forgiving. He may do
as he likes, and be friends with her if he
chooses ; but I never will, and my husband
shall not either ! He shall not go near her if I
can stop him. I have a particular dislike to
wickedness set up in high places ! '

Don't be unkind to me,' urged Polly, m
great distress. ' She is my sister, and she is
very ill ; I am most unhappy about her.'

She was always fond of making people
unhappy ! ' observed Mrs. Simonds, who seemed
to think that Zeph's illness was a malicious
attack on Polly's peace. * Here is Ealph ! but
he shall not go ! '

I don't think Dr. Simonds will refuse the
first request T make,' said Polly, gently.

No,' said the doctor, gallantly, ' nor the
second, nor even the hundredth if I keep my
present opinion of you, dear.'

One must marry you, Ealph, I suppose,'
said Mrs. Simonds, ' to have one's requests refused
; that seems to be my case.'

Dr. Seconds looked bewildered, but Polly,
with many apologies to Mrs. Simonds for attempting
to controvert her will, told her story.
Mrs. Simonds, who soon saw that she was
certain to be worsted, made some excuse for
leaving the room. She retreated, consoling
herself with the idea that her husband would
at all events secure a good patient, for this
fanciful creature in Ambassadors' Gate was sure
to be always imagining herself to be ill. She

VOL. III. N

was ' not a person of any resources — fancying
herself ill was one of the few employments left
open to such people.'

Polly narrated her story simply, and soon
interested the doctor. Zeph was ill, weak, and
alone, and in her illness her thoughts had
turned to hiui ; that was quite enough to make
the doctor, who had known her ever since she
was a baby, wish to go to her. Why should
he not ? All the evil she had done to John
was at an end ; John had fallen on his feet, and
had got the best of the three sisters for his own.
The doctor was delighted with Polly and the
engagement. He lead the highest opinion of
her head and heart, and listened to all she told
him with the greatest concern. As yet she
had not touched on any family secret, nor had
she remembered to make the promised enquiry.

Has your sister anything on her mind ? '
he asked.

Polly burst into tears.

Let us go,' he said, ' I have half an hour
at least to spare, and will go with you now.'

Stop one minute,' said Polly, ' I had to ask
you a question. Who was the pretty girl
dressed in olive-green whom you met and shook
hands with in Somerset Place a week or two
ago?'

He shook his head in despair. ' My dear,
I shake hands with all kinds of people. I have
not the remotest idea. Some patient of mine
in whom I took an interest, I suppose ; but that
is no clue, for I am interested in all of them.
Need hair, did you say ? '

Yes, not flaming red ; rather like bronze,
Zeph said. Do try to think who she was,
Zeph is so anxious to know.'

Impossible ! I have not the least idea ! '

Oh, but do try to remember. She seemed
pleased to see you ; you seemed pleased to see
her. She was tall and slim, young and pretty.'

'Young and pretty,' repeated the doctor,
'but, my dear child, I am thankful to say
hundreds of persons exist who answer to that
description.'

You were standing at the door of a studio.'

X 2

I daresay we were, but I don't know when
or where. There are a great many studios
down there.'

Here Polly either confused her instructions
or was carried away by zeal, for she said, ' Was
it Hester Langdale ? '

'My dear,' exclaimed the doctor, in a
startled voice, ' do you mean to tell me that
you know anything about Hester Langdale ? '

No,' replied Polly, simply ' I know nothing
whatsoever about her. Was that girl
Hester?'

No, certainly not. I never saw, or spoke
to Hester Langdale there ; she could not be
there ! Tell me why you ask this ? Why do
you want to know if I spoke to Hester Langdale
there ? '

Ought I to answer that ? Zeph might not
like me to do so ; but when I come to think, I
cannot answer it. I know nothing of Hester
Langdale. I have no idea why Zeph wished
me to put that question, I only know that she
is making herself completely miserable about

her, or something connected with her. I
ought not to say so much — all that I was told
to do was to ask you the name of a very pretty
girl, dressed as I described just now when she
spoke to you in Somerset Place.'

I don't know,' said the doctor, hopelessly,
I am very sorry, but I really do not know. I
see a great many girls, some pretty, some plain
it may have been some one who was in the
hospital.'

I daresay it was, Ealph,' said Mrs. Simonds,
who had approached them unawares, ' I should
think it extremely likely that it was ! I never
liked that hospital. It seems to me to be a
place where good, respectable, middle-aged
medical men just go for the pleasure of being
able to chatter for half an hour or so with
silly young creatures of twenty.'

And cure them when they are ill,' suggested
the doctor.

They are all actresses and artists' models,
I have no doubt,' remarked Mrs. Simonds, ' and
such people are much better ill — if illness does

nothing else for them, it sometimes brings them
to their senses. Frivolous, foolish creatures ! '

You are under a great mistake,' replied the
doctor ; ' but we must go, Polly,'

After a word or two to Mrs. Simonds they
began to go downstairs, but when they were
half-way she came to the landing and called
after her husband : ' I suppose you are aware,
Ealph, that I do not approve of what you are
doing ! I am sure you mean well and kindly,
but I think it very foolish.'

I must not stop to argue about it now,'
answered Dr. Simonds, ' I shall see you again
very shortly, my dear.' And so he left.

You are kind ! ' said Polly, when they
were safely seated in a hansom. ' I ought to
explain to you that Zeph does not know that I
have come for you. It was entirely my own
idea.'

It was a very good one ; I am very glad
to go. You spoke of an artist's studio just
now. What artist was it ? I did not know that
you knew any.'

Mr. Daylesford paints,' replied Polly. ' He
has a studio i]i Chelsea — or had before he went
away.'

Went away ? Where is he ? '

I don't believe any one knows exactly ; he
is in Persia, I think, or perhaps in India.'

Doesn't his wife know ? ' enquired the
doctor, who saw vistas of sorrow opening out
before him.

Polly hung her head and could not makeup
her mind to answer for some time — at last
she said : ' Something has gone wrong ; you
had better not know too much about it ; if you
could persuade her to confide in you it would
be a good thing.'

I will try,' said he, and was silent. He
was sure that this trouble was connected with
I-Ie:ter Langdale. Polly too was silent ; now
that she was actually driving to Ambassadors'
Gate with Dr. Simonds, she began to be afraid
of Zeph's anger. Zeph had been a formidable
personage to her sisters in the old days in
Lome Gardens, and they had not yet shaken

off their awe of her. ' I will go and forewarn
her,' suggested Polly.

No, let me go in with you,' replied the
doctor, ' I assure you it will be better — it is
not as if I were a stranger.'

With some misgivings Polly yielded, and
they walked into the room together. Zephyrs
lying just as Polly had left her, but her
complexion was even more unearthly. She
did not look up until she heard a strange footstep.
She seemed startled when she saw the
doctor, but he fancied that when her surprise
was over, she was rather glad to see him.

I have come,' said he, ' because I heard
you were ill. I have known you ever since
you were a child. One cannot forget these
things, and you and your sisters have always
been dear to me. For the sake of old times
you must let me see if I can do anything to
help you to your health again.'

After the first few words Zeph had gratefully
laid her hand in his, and now she was
lying with a pleased smile on her lips. Polly

and Agnes withdrew, and the doctor began to
ask a variety of medical questions, to all of
which Zeph responded as best she might.

You understand that I am here only as a
friend — I could not attend you in any other
capacity — it would be contrary to professional
etiquette, but in all you have told me I detect
no source of alarm — nothing to cause this low
state of health. My dear child, keep nothing
back from me. You may trust me.'

Zeph was silent. He saw that she was
touched by his words, but dared not speak.
I have always pitied you children,' he resumed,
you seemed to be left so much to yourselves.
You have never had a father or mother to
whom you coidd go with your little troubles and
your big troubles. You have had to struggle
with them yourselves. That adds to their weight
and difficulty, until at last you faint under it.
Zeph, my dear, I shall soon be a relative of yours,
and I want to be a kind one ; trust me ; tell
me what is distressing you so much. If you will,
I have a conviction that I can supply a cure.'

Zeph shook her head and said, 'Oh, no.
There is something — I cannot deny that ; but
I cannot speak of it — least of all to you.'

Dear child, you surely do not think that 1
am less willing to help you because of things
which happened in the past ? If you do you
are mistaken. You caused me and mine
sorrow once, I own it, but it is all over now — -
my sorrow has turned into exceeding great
gladness. I thoroughly love and respect your
dear sister, and for her sake I would come to
you, as I do now, even if I had not another
reason — two other reasons in fact.'

Tears came to Zeph's eyes — she was nothing
to any one — every one who had ever cared for
her could hive happily — nay more than happily —
without her. John and John's father were
congratulating themselves on having got Polly
in lieu of herself; even this good old doctor
was only talking so kiiidlj^ l.*ecause she was
Polly's sister. But it was not for her to repine,
she was but reaping what she had sown.
What reasons ? ' she enquired very humbly.

but with a faint hope that a certain amount of
regard for herself entered into the composition
of one of them.

Firstly, because I have seen you grow up
almost before my eyes ; and secondly, because
the business of my life is to heal and to help,
and I think if you would trust me, I might
help you — I am certain I could 1 '

Zeph looked wistfully in his rugged worn
face. It had been familiar to her from her
earliest youth. He had always been grimly
kind, but that was only because she had never
needed any more particular kindness. Now
she saw a glow of benevolence in his eyes, and
the sternness of his features was softened away
by the earnestness of his desire to give back
hope and health to her.

T' > k you, thank you, most truly,' said
she, ' but it is so dreadful to ; pe.ik of things.'

I daresay it is,' he res': > \ ' and after all
talking is bad for you, but I have some time
on my hands this afternoon,' — alas, poor man,
what a fiction that was ! — ' and I think I

should like to stay here with you a while if
you will allow me — don't speak, I will do the
talking. What shall we talk about ? Let me
see — Polly made some enquiries about a girl I
know very well. Let me tell you part of her
history We doctors are supposed to have
very disagreeable lives, but somehow or other
we see people under circumstances which
oblige them to show their true characters, and
some of them come out nobly — women especially.
Polly asked me some questions about a
girl — she said that you were curious about her
no, anxious about her, I think she said. My
dear, if you knew Hester Langdale as I do, you
would soon see that you had no cause for
anxiety.'

He glanced at Zeph. Her eyes were
riveted on his, and full of the keenest interest.
Yes,' he resumed, ' Hester Langdale comes
nearer to being a saint than any woman I ever
saw.'

Zeph's face flushed ; her eyes drooped, the
hope she had begun to cherish was gone.

Oh, how mistaken you are ? ' said she. ' Unhappily,
I know more about her than you do.
I know all about her — if I did not, I should
not be lying here now.'

You are probably aware of one fact, one
most unhappy fact which she deplores as much
as you. But she is an angel, not a woman !
You do not know what her life has been
during the last two years, — since your marriage,
I mean.'

Zeph was silent for a moment — for a moment
the doctor's earnestness awed her in spite
of her better knowledge. He evidently looked
on Hester as ' a thing enjoyed and sainted,'
and Zeph felt that any ill words or evil accusations
would glide off the pure and holy image
of her which he had set up in his mind, leaving
on it no mark or defacement.

And then you must not forget that she
loved him very truly,' added the doctor.

Zeph hid her face in her hands, and once
more felt scorched to the heart with shame.
The doctor was doubtless thinking what Godfrey

had not scrupled to say, that when her
own life's history and Hester's were judged,
the Great Judge of all would say, ' Woman,
you had no right to condemn her ; her life was
purer than you own. It was you who sold
yourself, not she.' Zeph knew it — she felt it
she acknowledged it in all humility now.

I am not blaming her for what occurred
before I knew Godfrey,' she said, struggling
with a pain in her throat which hardly left her
the power of speech, ' I am not making myself
unhappy about that, but I do think she might

Might have left me my husband now,' was
what she was about to say, but for Godfrey's
sake she forced herself to be silent. The
doctor was ignorant of much that she knew ; if
he were not, he would not dare to exalt this
woman as a saint.

My dear child,' continued Dr. Simonds,
how unreasonable you are ! If you are not
distressing yourself about that, I can assure you
you have no other cause of distress ! '

On this Zepli's passion broke forth into
words, and she exclaimed, ' Doctor, how can
you uphold this wicked girl? She deceives
you ! Lie is unworthy of your kindness. I
did wrong — shamefully wrong, when I married
Godfrey — I know I did, but the wrong would
have been righted long ago, and he would
have forgiven me and we should have been
happy, if it had not been for this wretched
woman ! She never really left him — perhaps
I ought to say that he never really left her. I
was a fool not to know it — I never did know
it. I thought he loved rae, and me only.
Even when he offered to me, he was advertising
for her and trying to fid out where she
was. I myself saw tete advertisement in the
newspaper at the time, and did not know what
it meant, but the other day all was explained,
for I found this — as if I were not miserable
enough already, I found this ! ' So saying, she
went to her desk, and took out a rough copy
of a letter to the editor of the Twines dated
July 15 th, and signed, Godfrey Daylesford,

requesting that an announcement consisting of
four words only should appear at the top of
the second column in the supplement for one
month. The words were, ' Hester, you were
wrong,' and they were to be printed in capital
letters. The word month was corrected into
fortnight and then into three weeks, and that
was apparently why this copy had been discarded.


That announcement appeared even after I
was engaged to Godfrey. I read it myself.
Now, doctor, answer one question. If he
could put such an announcement in the Times,
at such a moment, was our marriage likely to
be happy ? Had I any chance ? '

My dear, I can explain it all — I can explain
it quite easily, but I would rather convince
you in another way.'

No one can convince me — everything
points to my place being filled by another
woman. He did find her — he found her soon
after we returned from abroad — I wish we
never had returned. I have never known what

it was to be happy since. That woman soon
regained her influence over him. She made
him take to his painting again. She paints too ;
(godfrey got a studio out of the house — far from
home, down at Chelsea, and she and he painted
there together. I was never allowed to eo,
lest I should see her. You do not know what
I have suffered ; and there is more — much
more. I have reason to believe that they went
to Paris together. I have proof of it — I know
she went. That is why I said I would never
live with him again, and made him go away.
He vent abroad, and she no doubt accompanied
him. I never expect to see him again.'

May I ring for your maid ? ' said the
doctor.

'You may do anything you like,' replied
Zeph, in despair. If he were so little affected by
her distress as to talk of ringing for maids, what
was the use of his coming to see her? ' You
seem to think nothing of what I have just told
you ! ' she said bitterly ; ' I repeat to you that
after I became engaged to him this advertise-vol.

III.

ment appeared in the Times. I read it myself
with the odd kind of fascination we have
for anything which closely concerns us, though
I had no idea then that it could concern me.
I knew no one of the name of Hester — I had
never heard this wretched woman's name.
Your days ago I found this paper in a book in
the library, and then the whole thing came back
to me, and I understood it, and now I do not
see how you can defend Hester Langdale ! '

Wait one moment,' urged Dr. Simonds.
If I show you Hester La,ngdale now in a place
which to my certain knowledge she has never
left for more than an hour since about three
weeks after your husband went off in such a
hurry to Santa Eulalia when he thought his
brother was killed in the earthquake, will you
believe what I have told you about her ? '

But can you ? ' faltered Zeph ; ' I don't see
how you can.'

I can, and I will. Here is your maid, tell
her to bring your bonnet, and what you wear
when you go out, and let me take you.'

Bring your mistress's things,' said he,
authoritatively, for he saw that Zeph shrank
from doing what he asked. ' My dear, I do
not wish you to do anything difficult or wrong.
Come with me, and you will see Hester Langdale
doing good womanly work which she has
been doing ever since she recovered from the
illness during which I attended her. She was
brought to St. Elizabeth's when she was ill, she
got to know the ways of the place — she was
penitent, broken-hearted, and entirely alone in
the world, and her hope was that by devoting
herself to work she might regain a certain
measure of peace.'

Ah ! ' murmured Zeph, gently, ' she was
suffering ! One forgets that even people of
this kind must suffer sometimes. But do you
mean that she has never left the hospital ? '

Never for more than an hour, and I do not
think that she has often been absent even so
long. She is fond of nursing — she feels of use
the patients like her, and their gratitude is
her only happiness. She might have had a



brilliant future, for she was a very clever
painter, but she laid down all earthly hopes at
the feet of God. Come, I will take you to her
ward. You can look at her, there is no need
to speak. I will do all the talking.'

Zeph still felt great repugnance.

"- My dear, you must come ! I insist on it.
You are one of the doubting people who are
only convinced by the evidence of their own
senses. Come — all that you will have to do
will be to stand by my side while I walk
through the ward ; I will give you my
arm.'

I will come,' said Zeph.

They were soon at the hospital, but already
her courage was almost gone.

Take me back,' said she, ' I shall faint — I
shall do something foolish ! '

Nothing of the kind ! ' said Dr, Simonds ;
'you will take my arm and walk quietly
through this ward with me — that's all. You
are not to speak, and you have a thick veil on
no one can recognise you.'

^ Don't go near her, then,' pleaded Zeph.

They ascended the wide easy stairs and
came to a door. The doctor looked to see if
there were any fear of Zeph's breaking down,
and then entered a long, lofty, airy room. On
each side of it was a row of beds, pretty, pink-quilted
beds, set far apart from each other, and
all occupied. Each pillow was pressed by a
patient's head, and all looked very ill. Some
were sleeping, some writhing in pain, some
lying with dull apathetic eyes, fixed on what
seemed to. them to be vacancy. Had it
not been for the knowledge that these men
were ill, and some sick even unto death, the
ward would have seemed bright and cheerful.
Even Zeph was struck with the perfect order
and delicate cleanness. There were flowers
in abundance, and singing-birds, pictures and
prints. She took these things in at a glance.
They made up a background of which she was
conscious, though she was so touched by the
sight of so many suffering fellow-creatures that
for a moment she almost forgot what she had

come to do. Nurses were moving about,
performing this or that slight but precious
service.

'Hester is one of the nurses said the
doctor ; ' you will see her directly. I will
touch your arm when we come near her.'

Zeph looked at the nurses. They were
quiet, womanly, gentle-looking creatures, all
dressed alike in soft blue-and-white print
dresses, white caps, and large white aprons.
She saw one more pretty than any of the
others, and expected the promised signal, for
she had always thought of Hester as beautiful,
but the doctor walked quietly on until he came
to a bed where a poor man was lying, who was
evidently in great pain. A nurse was bathing
his forehead and hands with vinegar and water,
and so occupied with her task that she had no
eyes or thoughts for anything else. Zeph
could not see her face, but she saw a lock of
pretty brown hair peeping out under her cap.
The warning was given — that, then, was Hester
Langdale. Zeph's heart stood still.

How is he to-day ? ' asked Dr. Simonds.
Hester turned and gave the doctor a quiet
smile of recognition, and in a moment Zeph
received such an impression of angelic goodness
and purity that all ill thoughts of the woman
who bore the name of Hester Langdale were
banished at once and for ever. She was in this
world, but not of it ; her mind was filled with
noble thoughts, her heart with mercy and love.
The touch of her hand would surely bring help,
the sight of her face comfort.

God forgive me for wronging her ! '
thought Zeph ; ' I wish I could ever hope to behalf
as near heaven as she is.'

Hester's voice was soft and musical, and ina
few businesslike words she was informing
the doctor of his patient's exact condition.
The patient himself seemed afraid that she was
going to leave him.

You have done quite right, nurse,' said
Dr. Simonds, and passed on. He was afraid of
trying Zeph too much. Zeph did not feel it a
trial to be there now. She looked back, and

saw Hester once more completely absorbed by
her ministrations, and felt that her life was
holy, and that no one could approach her without
feeling prompted to kind deeds and good
thoughts. It never for one moment occurred
to Zeph that Hester was not beautiful — she was
most beautiful — she possessed that highest
beauty of all, a mind so good and noble and so
tenderly submissive to duty that no eye could
rest on her without being conscious of it.
Zeph walked on with the doctor, but she
turned more than once to look at Hester, who
was aware of nothing but the work she was
doing.

Shall we go ? ' enquired Dr. Simonds.

Yes, take me home', she replied. ' Please
take me home. Wait one moment, and then
let us go.' She went to the box for charitable
contributions and emptied her purse into it.
She took off some rings and dropped them in ;
then they left the place together. She threw
herself back in the carriage in utter self-abasement
; she despised her own miserably selfish

and suspicious character from the very bottom
of her heart.

Was I wrong ? ' said the doctor.

Zeph looked humbly in his face and
answered, ' Dear Dr. Simonds, no. I would
give all I possess to be as good as she is ! '

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

A MOST Strange LIKENESS.

The Sun may shine and we be col(J. — E. B. Browning.
A coeur hesse — Sombre et le silence. — Balzac.

Days passed — a week passed, and yet though
^eph had professed entire belief in Hester,
and satisfaction at the result of her visit to
St. Elizabeth's, she still lay on the sofa, or
wandered about the house, looking the picture
of misery, and no one could induce her to
go out. Dr. Simonds was disappointed in her.
He had expected that the moment she found she
was tormenting herself without a cause, there
would be a strong rebound in the direction of
health, but instead of that she seemed more
desponding than ever. At first she had seemed
happy and at rest, but after an hour or two she
had reverted to her original gloom. The truth

was the unhappy girl had a reason for her
grief. Hester might be, and was, above suspicion,
but some one else was not, and it was
most terrible to Zeph to know that there was
this some one else. Who was the girl in ohve-
green who haunted the studio in Somerset
Place, and whose wearing apparel travelled in
Godfrey's portmanteau ? Zeph was wretched.
Polly was in despair at seeing her in such a
state, Agnes cross, and Dr. Simonds out of
patience. He had hoped everything from
giving this fanciful woman proof that she was
wrong, and she was as woebegone as ever, and,
what was worse, he could not persuade her to
tell him what was on her mind now. Polly
was with her continually ; in the midst of her
own happiness, Zeph's sorrow was a dark spot
which never could be overlooked.

House yourself, Zeph ! ' she said one
morning. ' House yourself, and you will soon
be all right again. Dr. Simonds says he has
convinced you that you were tormenting yourself
about something which was entirely imaginary,

and yet you go on doing it just the
same.'

'Dr. Simonds convinced me that I had
made a mistake on one point ; he never convinced
me that I had no cause to be unhappy ;
no one can do that — no one — besides, I think
he vp-as mistaken himself.'

Zeph ! Zeph ! ' exclaimed Polly, ' what is
the matter ? Why are you looking like that ? '

It was not surprising that Polly was
startled. Zeph, whose sofa was very near
the window, had started up, ill as she was, and
was standing clasping her forehead with both
hands, and her eyes were ablaze with indignant
astonishment.

My dearest Zeph ! ' again said Polly,
what is it ? what do you see .^ ' She did not
content herself, however, with making these
enquiries, but hastened to her sister's side.

There ! ' exclaimed Zeph, pointing to the
portico, ' there she is ! You ask me why I
am so unhappy, that is the woman who is
making me miserable ! There, standing at the

.door, that is Hester Langdale — there are two
women of the name. I was sure there was
some mistake.'

Polly looked and saw a tall graceful girl
dressed in olive-green, standing outside by the
door, and patiently waiting till her modest
knock was attended to.

Who is she ? Zeph, what can you mean ? '
asked Polly.

Oh, don't ask me about her— how dare
she come here ! ' said Zeph, hoarsely, and then
as her feet refused to bear her any longer, she
sat down on the edge of the sofa and pressed
both hands to her heart. But she heard the
great door of the house open, and sprang to
her feet again in time to see the girl outside
in earnest conversation with the servant, and
then she seemed to yield to a suggestion that*
she should enter the house. Zeph heard the
heavy door close again with a dull sound, and
knew that she and this woman were now
beneath the same roof What was about to
happen ? How could she dare to do this !.

The footman now came to ask if Mrs.
Daylesford would kindly give him Mr. Dales
present address.

I cannot,' replied Zeph, hoarsely ; ' he is
moving about.'

The servant retreated, and probably had
to answer a number of questions, for if the
girl had left the house Zeph must have seen
her. After what seemed a very long time,
measured as it was by the throbbing pulsations
of a heart excited almost beyond the
point of endurance, Agnes came and said, with
perfect calmness, and something of the manner
of a person who has already had more trouble
than enough about a matter of no importance :
Zeph dear, I would not trouble you if I could
help it, but do you happen to know anything
about a green serge cap ? There is a girl in
the hall who wants one which she thinks ought
to be found somewhere among Godfrey's possessions.
I have been looking round for it, but
do not seem able to see it anywhere.'

Zeph looked petrified. Agnes stood wondering

why this very simple question should
produce such a starting effect.

My dear Zeph,' said she, ' you are ill I
know, but don't give way to nervousness ; I
only want an answer to a very simple question ;
but after all, I don't suppose you know anything
about the poor girl's cap.'

Don't trouble yourself about it I ' said
Zeph. ' Tell Charles to say that no one
knows where it is, and that she must go at
once.'

Agnes stared at her — Zeph was speaking so
angrily — she was so unlike herself.

I think it is a person called Hester Langdale
' she began.

Well, perhaps it is, but she ought to have
her cap if she wants it. Poor girl, she does
not look as if she could afford to lose it,' said
Agnes, pleadingly.

Zeph rose indignantly and made a few
steps towards the door.

Polly laid a restraining hand on her arm
and made her sit down, and then said to Agnes,

'Tell Zeph more about this: who wants the
cap, and why she thinks it is here, I mean.'

It is a girl who sits to Godfrey for the
picture he is painting at the studio who wants
it,' Agnes replied quickly, ' a model she calls
herself— and she wants it because it is hers.'

A model ! ' exclaimed Zeph ; ' but I did
not know that when people talked about a
model they meant a real girl. I thought a
model was a thing they sometimes call a lay
figure — but that accounts for so much ! '

You must tell me what to do,' said Agnes,
she is waiting outside, and we have kept her
so long. She has heard that Godfrey has gone
abroad, and so, as he cannot want the cap
now, and as it goes with the dress she is wearing,
she would like to have it. She is quite
civil about it, dear, and wishes me to say that
if it was likely to be of any further use to Mr.
Daylesford, and he wanted to keep it, he was
most welcome to do so ; but she does not seem
to think that likely, as he is away.'

Use to Godfrey ! What can she mean ?

enquired Zeph, who still spoke with great difficulty,
but looked calmer.

It seems that it is a peculiar shade of green,
one that Godfrey admires very much, and he
wanted, if possible, to get some Indian silk of
the same colour to make a dress for his model
for this picture, or for some other picture — for I
forget the exact words — and he employed this
Hester Langdale — wasn't that the name you
called her? — to search a number of shops in
Oxford Street and Regent Street to see if she
could find the silk in London, but she could
not, so when he went to Paris — not last time,
you know, but the first time — he borrowed
Hester's cap and took it with him to see if he
could get what he wanted there.'

During this lengthy explanation, Zeph's
face had been a perfect study — its expression
had gradually changed from abject misery to
timid anxious hope. She turned to Agnes and
said: 'Tell some one to look in Godfrey's
dressing-room.'

I won't ask you to explain what has passed,

VOL. III. P

but I can see that you are much happier for it
said Polly, when they were alone.

No, don't ask me to explain anything yet,
I could not do it if you did ; but I will tell
you one thing ; I was wicked enough to think
that this girl was abroad with Godfrey now.
Suppose I have been as mistaken in everything
else as in that ? '

No doubt you have ; go and see her yourself,'
urged Polly ; ' ask her a few questions,
and '

I speak to Hester Langdale ! ' exclaimed
Zeph. ' Impossible ! '

Agnes came dancing in with the cap ; Zeph,
alas ! had seen it before ; how she wished she
had never done so; what misery it had cost
her!

I want Zeph to go and say a few words
to this Hester Langdale,' said Polly, 'but
she '

Hester Langdale ! That's not her name,'
interrupted Agnes. ' I asked her what it was
as I came past, and it is Juliet Merrick.'

Are you sure ? ' said Zeph.

At all events she says so, and it is what
Godfrey calls her. She showed me a note he
had written her from Paris when he went back
last time. He sent her a five-pound note, and
said that he released her from all engagement
to sit to him, for he was going to travel about,
and did not intend to return to England for
many years.'

Zeph was now looking as white as her dress
and utterly exhausted by this most trying scene.
Polly made Agnes a sign to cut it short. She
was afraid Zeph would be really ill. Agnes
went to give the girl her cap and dismiss her,
and Zeph and Polly were again alone. Zeph
sighed deeply ; was it a sigh of complete fatigue
and disheartened, or was it a sigh of relief
and hopefulness ?

You said that Dr. Simonds knew this girl,'
exclaimed Polly, with a sudden remembrance
of what isle had been told. ' Ask him about
her when he comes ; he will be here soon ; I
heard him say so.'

p2

Do I know a model called Juliet ? — I suppose
you mean Juliet Meyrick ? ' said he, later
in the day, when he came. ' Of course I do.
Polly asked me about a slim red-haired girl I
had been speaking to somewhere lately, but
she forgot to say she was an artist's model. If
she had given me that clue I could have told
her all she wanted to know at once. Juliet is
one of the best girls in the world. I will tell
you her story. Her father was an architect, a
very clever fellow indeed, who was just beginning
to make his way when he died. ^ He left
a wife, who had an incurable illness, and two
daughters almost entirely unprovided for.
Juliet had a lover ; a poor man, but he was
ready to share his means with her. She
would not desert her mother. Juliet tried to
earn her living by her pencil. This threw her
among artists and people of that kind, and she
soon found that she ,€OuM earn more as an
artist's model than by painting, and she now
keeps her mother—humbly enough, but they
are very happy. I know them thoroughly well.

Mrs. Meyrick was in the hospital, and I got to
know them all. Juliet, no doubt, has been
sitting to your husband, and if so he has been
fortunate in his model. She is very pretty, and,
as I have said before, as good a girl as ever
lived.'

Zeph could not speak, her feelings overpowered
her. The vast edifice which she had
so carefully built up of base suspicions had
suddenly crumbled away before a few words of
truth. She had tormented herself, her husband,
and every one about her for nothing. She had
driven away her husband and lost his love.
She felt as if she should like to journey forth
on foot over rough places and smooth, and take
no rest until at last she had found him, and
could throw herself at his feet, and beg for
pardon. Dr. Simonds left her, and she sat for
some time woefully contemplating the prospect
which lay before her.

Mr. Blackmore is here, ma'am, and wishes
to see you,' said the footman, breaking in on
her melancholy occupation. She went slowly

into the breakfast-room, feeling mortified at the
thought that even this man knew that she and
her husband were separated for life. She was
so ashamed of what he must be thinking of her
that she could not look him in the face. He
bowed ; she was conscious of that, though she
never raised her eyes. He said, ' Madam, I
come once more, by Mr. Godfrey Daylesford's
request, to see if I can be of any assistance to
you. I have brought a cheque-book, which
Mr. Godfrey Daylesford hopes you will not
scruple to use whenever you are in need of
money.'

Zeph gathered with pain that in this man's
mind the word husband was inapplicable —
Godfrey was henceforth to be Mr. Dales
to her. Mr. Blackmore was right. She
was no longer anything to Godfrey — she
told herself so, and tried to accept the fact
'bravely ; then she said, still without raising
her eyes, 'I would rather know how much
I am expected to spend. Can you not ^:l
a sum ? — I do not wish it to be a large one ;

in fact, I will not accept more than is absolutely
necessary.'

I do not imagine, madam, that Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford has any desire to limit you.
Of course there is a limit at which I myself
should feel bound to utter a word of warning,
or remonstrance, but you are not likely to
overstep it.'

Thank you, but I much prefer a fixed
allowance.'

'I can understand that, madam, and when
I have an opportunity will communicate your
desire ; but that will not be for some time, and
I am sure Mr. Godfrey Daylesford does net
wish '

But I wish — ' interrupted Zeph, ' I wish
to have as little as possible ; ' and as she spoke
she lifted her eyes to her lawyer's face, and
started when she saw it, for, feature for feature,
and line by line, save for the difference between
middle age and old age, she saw before her the
little brown gentleman she had met in the
gallery at Berkhampstead on the first night of

her arrival there. ' Mr. Blackmore,' she said,
in the utmost surprise and alarm, ' you have no
idea what a shock you have given me I '

You must excuse me,' he replied ; ' I am
but obeying instructions. I know this is a
painful business — most painful — these things
always are, it is their nature to be so; but
everything shall be done that lies in my power
to spare your feelings. Mr. Godfrey Dales
wishes it — I wish it myself, madam.'

It is not that,' replied Zeph, hastily, for it
was terrible to have this little legal gentleman
fingering her heart-wounds so freely ; ' it is not
that; don't let us say anything about that. It
is a most strange likeness. It is wonderful that
I did not notice it when I saw you before ! '
and Zeph's heart sank as she recalled the time
when she had last seen him. It was just before
her marriage, and he had read some papers
aloud in her presence ; her mind had probably
then been so occupied with other thoughts that
she had never so much as looked at him. ' Do
tell me something,' said she, eagerly. ' Your

father was a lawyer too, I know ; did he wear
brown clothes, and was he a pleasant-looking
man, with straight grey hair, and was he rather
stout and short, and did he wear a shade over
his left eye and a double eyeglass ? '

So far as your description goes, it is perfectly
accurate said Mr. Blackmore'; 'but I did
not know that you had ever seen him. He
died more than four years before your marriage
with my client, Mr. Godfrey Daylesford. He
died on February 7, 18 '

Zeph sighed ; these recollections involved
other recollections which were far from making
her happy, but the subject was so interesting to
her that she could not pursue it. ' Yes, and
it was on February 7, just four years later, that
I first went to Berkhampstead.'

Indeed, madam ! ' said the lawyer, with
very faint interest.

Yes, that was the very day, and I was in
the great gallery at one o'clock that night, or
rather that morning, and I saw a gentleman who
was exactly like you, only dressed differently,

and of course much older. He was walking
slowly along the gallery with a candle in his
hand, the light fell on his face, and I saw it perfectly,
and besides that, I saw a photograph of
him next day. I remember it distinctly, and I
remember too that Godfrey — Mr. Daylesford, I
mean — seemed anxious to change the subject
whenever I asked about this gentleman whom I
had seen. Mr. Blackmore, I must have seen
your father's ghost.'

We should have to believe in ghosts,
madam, before we could admit that,' replied
the lawyer, coldly. ' One thing that makes your
story curious is that it was the anniversary of
the day on which my father died — indeed it
was the very hour. Stories of this kind are
undeniably curious, but they are nothing more.
There is nothing in them — there never can be
anything in them. To return to business : you
understand, I hope, that Mr. Godfrey Dales
wishes you to remain in this house and
to have a liberal income. I believe I may
take it on myself to say that he is prepared tolet

you draw to the extent of two thousand a
year.'

Then let me assure you that I am not
prepared to do anything of the kind,' answered
Zeph, decidedly. ' It is very kind of him, but
I shall only spend what is absolutely necessary.
Did you ever hear of any one else seeing this
apparition ? '

Never ! ' replied Mr. Blackmore. ' I
should imagine that you had heard a description
of my father, or seen the photograph you
speak of, and fancied '

Oh no, I fancied nothing — I saw a figure
which looked exactly like a real person — and
it is very strange ! '

Oh ! ' exclaimed Mr. Blackmore, suddenly,
I had forgotten something ! You asked me
just now if I had ever heard of any one else
seeing the same appearance, and I said no ; but
my sister once did — I forgot it when you asked
me. I have a great contempt for ghosts and
ghost stories, and they slip out of my mind.'

Do tell me about your sister,' said Zeph.

'What did she see? I have a very particular
reason for wishing to know.' She had
begun to think that this apparition had come
to afford some clue to the discovery of the
papers which were so important to the family
happiness.

I will tell you all I can remember said
Mr. Blackmore, with the lofty air of a man of
science talking down to a person who was the
prey of weak and superstitious beliefs. ' As I
said before, I soon dismiss such stories as these
from my mind. My late father used to go to
Berkhampstead four or five times every year to
receive rents and arrange business matters connected
with the estate. On one occasion he took
my sister with him — she was not well, and he
thought that a few days' change would do her
good. It was in the old lord's time of course,
but he was not at home, and no one was in the
castle but the servants. My sister was put into
a large sombre-looking bedroom with windows
towards the garden, and the housekeeper had
been so foolish as to tell her a great many

stories before she went to bed, which frightened
her. These were all about a farmer's daughter
who had married one of the noblemen who
owned the estate, years and years before.
This girl had never been well received by the
county, and when she died had, by some odd
caprice of her husband's, been buried in the
garden. This Lady Berkhampstead was said to
haunt the castle, and the silly old housekeeper
told my poor little sister, who was only a child,
so many stories of her having been seen here
and there about the rooms and corridors, that
the unfortunate girl was afraid to go to bed.
The castle is, as you know, a great rambling,
gloomy-looking place, and you can perhaps
excuse a young person feeling nervous ? '

Indeed I can,' replied Zeph, with great
interest ; ' I was nervous myself at first ; I have
gone through the whole thing myself. Do tell
me more.'

My sister had been spending the evening
with the housekeeper, for my father was too
busy to have her with him, and did not Hke

her to be alone. He was sitting in the library,
busy with accounts and looking over papers,
and the housekeeper had used the time to such
good purpose that, when bedtime came, my
little sister was terrified at the thought of being
left alone, and longed to ask the housekeeper to
sleep with her, but was too shy. At last she
ascertained that her father was to sleep in a
room near hers — that cheered her a little, and
she went to seek him to see if he were ready to
go. He said he should not be long, so she
went away in tolerable comfort ; but no sooner
was she in bed than she was filled with terror.
She tried to shake it off, but could not ; and at
last got up, lit a candle, partly dressed herself,
opened the door, and stood waiting till her
father came upstairs. She has so often described
all this to me that I am able to tell it
to you exactly as it happened. She said that
she seemed to stand by that half-opened door
for hours. She thought her father would never
come. At last she heard a distant door shut,
and a sound of distant footsteps which gradually

came nearer, and she saw her father ascending
the stands at the end of the long gallery, and
then coming slowly towards her. He came
nearer and nearer, and then she drew back a
little, for he looked very stern, and she was
afraid that he would be angry if he saw that
she had not gone to bed ; but she held the
door ajar, and peeped, and still watched him
advancing towards her. Suddenly, and without
the least warning, she lost sight of him
altogether, and to this day is unable to explain
how. She was so startled by his strange disappearance
that she almost screamed. She
stood pressing her hands to her heart to still
its beating, waiting, and watching for a longtime,
but all was quiet, and after this she
saw no more. At last she crept back to
bed, and I believe ended by falling asleep ;

but '

But, my dear Mr. Blackmore exclaimed
Zeph, panting with excitement, ' it is exactly
what I saw, and what I felt! She had the
same bedroom that I had, and she saw just

what I did. Do tell me how you explain this
story?'

I don't attempt to explain it ; I don't
think there is anything to explain. I suppose
she saw my father going to bed, and when she
lost sight of him, he had turned into his own
room — my sister had mistaken the position of
the door, that's all. The whole story, to my
mind, is much ado about nothing! I only
ventured to tell it because you seemed to wish
to hear it.'

'Oh, thank you,' replied Zeph, eagerly, ' I
am so interested ! Of course I see that there
is some reason for your explaining away the
apparition seen by your sister, for she could
not see your father's ghost when he was still
alive, and she might have made a mistake
about the situation of his room ; but how do
you account for what I saw ? '

'You were probably in a highly nervous
condition at the time, and had worked yourself
up into such a state of excitement that your
imagination might readily play you false, and

lead you to suppose that you had seen this
figure.'

'Granted that imagination is able to perform
such wonders,' said Zeph, doubtfully,
how could it place before my eyes the figure
of a man v/hom I had never seen, ^Yith such
absolute fidelity to truth that when I describe
him to you you recognise him, and if I were
able to draw, I could reproduce each feature
with complete accuracy ? '

You had seen a photograph — you mentioned
a photograph.'

I did not see that till next day. I picked
out the photograph of your father at once,
though it was among some hundreds.'

'Probably, without your remembering the
fact, you had turned over the book it was
in the night before. Consider what you are
taking for granted if the thing did not occur
in some natural way such as I suggest. You
would believe, and have me believe, that the
spirit of my father could once more call back
to its use the perishable body it inhabited when

VOL. III. Q

on earth, and besides this, you ask me to
believe in ghosts of brown clothes, and black
shades, and eyeglasses — and all for what end —
for what end ? Why, for none whatsoever ! '

Zeph's mind was in a whirl. How could
Mr. Blackmore say for no end whatsoever ?
What right had he thus to decide what might
or might not lie within the power of one who
had been snatched from earth with a great duty
left unfulfilled ? Old Mr. Blackmore had gone
to Berkhampstead on an important errand.
The fate of many hung on words which he
alone could utter. He had suddenly been
struck down by mortal illness, but during the
terrible hours when he lay as it were between
two worlds, belonging to neither, who can say
how his mind had been tortured by his incapacity
to perform the service which none but he
could perform? Zeph did not look on these
questions as Mr. Blackmore did — to her mind
it seemed by no means beyond the bounds of
possibility that his father's spirit might haunt
the scene of unfulfilled duty, knowing no rest

until the secret of which he was the sole keeper
was laid bare. She had been thinking of this
so earnestly that she had forgotten she was
keeping the lawyer waiting — when she remembered
him, she saw that he was gazing at her
with an amused smile. ' We shall never agree
on this subject,' said she, ' but you must own
it is strange.'

Yes, but probably the key to it is lying
very close at hand.*

That is wdiat I seem to feel,' said she,
flushing with hope ; * that is what made me so
thoughtful.' But she meant something very
different from what he did. He took up his
hat, and then Zeph, who saw that all opportunity
of learning anything about Daylesford
was on the point of vanishing with him, made
a great effort, and said nervously, ' You correspond
with Mr. Daylesford ; where is he ? '

He was at Santa Eulalia when he wrote,
but was going to Siberia and various parts of
Russia ; intimately, I believe, he meant to go to
India, and I think Japan.'

q2

Will you say I asked about him ? ' said
Zeph, trying to speak calmly.

I will, when I have an opportunity, but I
do not expect to hear anything more of him for
some months.'

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

'I WAS NOT WORTHY — SHE WAS.'

You have taught me
To be in love with noble thoughts.' — Old Play.

The key to this mystery is probably lying very
close at hand.' Those had been the lawyer's
words, and Zeph felt that they had a strange
significance. They chimed in so exactly with
certain thoughts which had taken possession of
her own mind while Mr. Blackmore was repeating
that story of his Httle sister's night at the
castle. All the time he was speaking, Zeph
had felt like one on the verge of a discovery.
She was persuaded that materials for this discovery
lay all but within her reach if the eyes
of her mind could but be opened to perceive
them. The ghost — she believed it was a ghost
had appeared to her no doubt as a token that

she was the person appointed to find the papers
which would bring such happiness to the
Daylesford family, and this thought gave her
immeasurable comfort. 'I would give all the
world to do it,' she said to herself ; ' I might
then perhaps venture to go to my dear husband
and show him my true heart. Armed with
these papers I should have an excuse for going
to him, and once in his presence I would
humble myself, and I think all would be well.'
From early morning till late night she
thought of nothing else. She tried to weave
some connection between what had been seen
by Mr. Blackmore's little sister and what she
herself had seen ; and often she felt as if the
secret were in her grasp, and then it slipped
away from her, and she was left comfortless
and hopeless. Thinking so intensely on this
one subject kept her from being entirely miserable.
Had it not been for the conviction that
what had been hidden so long was about to be
revealed to her, she would not have known how
to hold up her head. It was strange how completely

this had taken possession of her. She
sat twisting and turning all she had heard or
knew into every possible shape, and calling on
Polly and Agnes and Dr. Simonds to help her.
She would listen to no discouragement. Dr.
Simonds nearly lost her favour because he ridiculed
"the idea of believing in. ghosts ; but she
found a firm ally in her own father, who stoutly
maintained that every great family in England
had a well-authenticated ghost story ; and that
in Holland House, which was within a walk of
Lome Gardens, as well as of Ambassadors' Gate,
there were no less than three ghosts under one
roof.

Zeph awoke one morning with a strong wish
to go to Berkhampstead. She regarded this
wish as heaven-sent, and a further proof that
she was the chosen agent of discovery.

Is it open to me to go to the castle for a
day or two ? ' she wrote to Mr. Blackmore.
^ I mean, do you suppose my husband would
have any objection to my going?' She had
written the word husband unawares — she had

not the heart to take another sheet of paper
and write more in conformity with the style
adopted by the lawyer. ' He no doubt would
like me to say — "your chert, Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford," ' she thought ! ' but I cannot
bring myself to do it.' A tear fell on the
paper ; she brushed it away and allowed it no
successor. She resumed her letter, and wrote :
If you feel that I can go there without
doing anything contrary to his wishes, will you
kindly telegraph to the servants to expect
me? I shall take my little brother with me
and stay four or five days.' She instructed
her servant to wait for an answer. It was, of
course, affirmative, so Zeph went to Lome
Gardens to invite Jack. She was so excited
with the thought of what she was about
to do, that she went into the study without
knocking.

'My dear Zeph! ' said Mr. Treherne, 'How
well you look ! How is Godfrey ? '

Edward ! Godfrey is abroad ; how you do
forget things ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Treherne.

Ah, yes, so lie is, I forgot ; but you have
good accounts of him ? '

Zeph did not speak ; she felt, and always
had felt, that it would be cruel to distress her
father by telling him the truth.

I suppose he will soon be at home again,'
said Mr. Treherne. He did not observe her
hesitation.

I hope so,' she answered. ' I want Jack
to go with me to Berkhampstead for a few days.
I have seen so little of him lately. I think he
will like to go.'

Of course he will,' said her father. ' Shall
you drive there ? Do you remember how
delightful that drive was ? '

I am going by train, father,' Zeph replied
hastily. She was afraid of her voice betraying
her. ' I don't think I could bear to drive.'

It would be hot, I daresay,' said her
mother. ' It was rather cold when we went.
Do you remember when we did go .^ It has
escaped my memory.'

We went on February 7,' said Zeph.

Oh, how can you remember dates so accurately
? ' asked Mrs. Treherne. That date
was impressed on Zeph's memory as no other
date had ever been — how could she forget it ?

Of course she remembers it, Hester,' observed
Mr. Treherne. ' She might never have
been the happy little woman she is now if she
had not taken that long drive.' There was
nothing for Zeph to do but go away. Her
father knew nothing, but she was not quite so
sure about her mother.

What a grand lady you are now, Zeph ! '
said Jack next day, when they were seated in
the carriage which had come to Berkhampstead
Station to meet them. ' Do you recollect that
evening when you and I climbed up the railings
to see how beautifully Mr. Daylesford's dinner
was set out .^ '

Jack, you must never mention that ! '
exclaimed Zeph ; even in her grief she was
shocked at this recollection. ' Besides I didn't
climb, so don't ever say I did ; you pulled me
up before I knew what you were going to do.'

You were always wishing for nice pretty
things, Zeph, and now you have got them ; but
I believe Polly will be just as happy as you
are ! ' said Jack, who had always been an inveterate
partisan of John Simonds.

I sincerely hope dear Polly will be very
much happier than ever I have been,' replied
Zeph, fervently.

I hope nothing of the kind ! ' declared
Jack. ' I want her to be happy, of course ;
but I always did like you best.'

As they drove to the castle, Zeph unfolded
to Jack the object of her journey. She told
him as much about the lost papers as she could,
and enlisted his help. Jack had lately been
reading one of Edgar Allan Poe's stories describing
a search for a cleverly concealed letter.
He wanted to unrip the linings of curtains, and
cut to pieces stuffed furniture ; take up floors
and peer about for secret passages. His imagination
was thoroughly fired, and he was most
eager to begin his investigations.

Zeph was alarmed. ' You may search as

much as you like,' said she, ' but you must
injure nothing. Remember it is not our house,
and the servants '

Do you imagine that the retainers of the
family would venture to criticise any of our
actions ? We are their feudal superiors ! ' replied
Jack, impressively.

When Zeph arrived at the castle, however,
she was aware of a subtle something which
made her feel that the retainers of the family-were
well informed as to much that had taken
place, and knew that Mr. Godfrey's marriage
had turned out a distressing failure. They
were scrupulously polite and attentive, and an
different person would have seen nothing to
justify her belief, but from the moment Zeph
set foot in the house she was conscious that
she was under the ban of their censure. They
knew that she had behaved ill and disapproved
of her.

They may think what they like,' said Zeph
to herself. ' I don't care. I have not come
here to trouble myself about them. I have

something to do that is really important ! '
What was that something to be? Her heart
died within her when she thought how entirely
improvised she was with an answer to this
question. She remembered all that her
husband had told her of the thoroughness of
the search which had been conducted by him.
She would, however, bring her woman's wits
to bear on the matter, and would go into every
room in turn and examine places likely to have
escaped a man's observation. She began that
very day, and with Jack's help took out every
drawer of every cabinet and writing-table, and
looked behind each for papers which might
have slipped out of sight. No possible hiding-place
escaped her. Next day it was the same,
and then they went into the library. Godfrey
had told her how systematically the books
had been examined, but she was quite
sure that no man would examine books
with as much patience as a woman would
bring to the task.

A weary task it was ! That day and the

next they looked into the books and they
looked behind them, but they never found
what they wanted. All this work was not done
without the housekeeper seeing and quickly
divining what they were about. ' It is nothing
but a waste of work, ma'am ! ' said she ; ' there
is not a square inch of the whole castle that
has not already been well examined at least
half a dozen times by at least half a dozen
people.'

'Never mind, Mrs. Sanderson,' said Zeph,
doggedly, ' I have such a wish to try what I
can do ! '

Of course if you have a wish, ma'am — but it
will be no use,' said Mrs. Sanderson, oracularly.
When those papers are found it will be
because it is intended that they should be
found. No looking will do any good ! ' and so
saying she departed. Zeph greatly feared that
she was right, and yet the only thing that she
now seemed able to do for Godfrey was not tolet
herself be daunted by any fatigue or discouragement,
but to proceed with her search

strenuously. She was utterly weary, but her
excitement prevented her from knowing it.
On the fifth day of unremitting labour, she
remembered Jack. ' Dear Jack, you must be
tired to death ! ' said she.

Perhaps I am when I begin to think about
it,' said he, ' but what matter if we have the
glory of finding what no one else has been able
to find ! '

Jack, I begin to be very much afraid ! '
said Zeph, sadly. ' When the long bookcase at
the end of the room has been looked through,
we shall have nothing left to do. Go out,
dear ; I can do all that remains. I have been
very selfish to keep you indoors all this time.'

They had been five days at the Castle and
had never once gone out. Zeph did not want
to go out, or to see anything. If she had not
come with one paramount object, nothing
would have induced her to revisit a place
where there was so much to make her miserable.
Jack went out, and she continued her
task alone, and late in the afternoon turned

over the pages of the last book and knew that
all chance of success was over. She had failed
in her search, and would have to go home next
day as she came, carrying with her the knowledge
that she had thrown away the happiness of
her life by indulging in stupid, ill-tempered, mad
jealousy. She sat on the steps in the library
in a state of complete despondency. Something
had emphatically told her she should
succeed, and yet here she was — alone, disappointed,
and profoundly miserable. No words,
too, could express her self-contempt and remorse.
She loved Godfrey — and she had
driven him away for ever. He was not Hkely
to return for years, and he could never, either
now or at any period of his life, look on her
as anything but a perverse, unloving, selfish,
suspicious creature, whom he had married
because he loved her, and who had repaid him
by ruining his life.

Jack came back late in the afternoon and
found her sitting looking pale and discomfited.
Found it ? ' was on the tip of his tongue as he

opened the library door, but it was enough to
look at her. He himself was in great spirits.
'I have been to the rectory,' said he; 'old
Scatch is away with mother Scatch, but some
of the boys are there. Old Scatch has gone to
look at a having which has been offered to him.
Benson says Mr. Daylesford has got some one
to offer it to old Scatch, and he is very likely
going to take it, Benson thinks. You know
Benson, Zeph ; he held up your what's-his-name
at your wedding — I mean helped me to do it,
for I was, of course, more of a principal person
than he .? Don't look so miserable, Zeph ; we
will have that paper yet I '

After dinner Jack made her go out ; he
said it was awfully jolly out in the garden, and
to please him Zeph let herself be taken the
same round that she had so often taken with
Godfrey. They walked by the fading light
through the solitary garden paths, and she
thought how happy she might have been.
That night when she went to bed an idea
occurred to her which comforted her a little.

VOL. III. K

She was walking through the long gallery
where she had seen ' the little brown gentleman
when this idea came to her. She had seen him
on February 7 — the day of Mr. Blackmore's
death — and on the night of February 7 next
year she would watch in that gallery again, and
if that apparition appeared she would speak toit,
and follow it, even if it cost her her life.
She knew that she was a poor weak girl, but
for love of Godfrey she could nerve herself todo
so much as that.

I hate going home beaten,' said Jack, next
day. ' It was so jolly when we came here, for
we felt as if we were going to do such a lot.
Don't look like that, Zeph ! '

Zeph did her best not to ' look like that,'
but she felt utterly crushed, and though when
she was at home again she made a brave
struggle to resume her usual way of life, she
could resume nothing but the sorrow and
suffering that now seemed to have made their
own of her. ' I am quite well, thank you,'
said she, when asked how she was ; ' there is

nothings to be anxious about.' She did not
like to be asked how she was, or noticed in
any way, and generally took a book and pretended
to read. Both her doctors were now
more concerned about her than before. They
wished her to go from home, to travel, to do
anything in fact that might shake off the
weight of depression that seemed to be settling
down on her ; but she refused to leave home.
She seemed to rouse herself a little when Polly's
marriage took place, but she soon relapsed
into her usual condition. Sometimes Agnes
stayed with her, but more usually Zeph preferred
to be alone.

One evening about nine, she was told that
a person was in the breakfast-room who particularly
desired to see her. ' But who is she ? '
asked Mrs. Daylesford.

It is a lady, ma'am — at least, I think she is
a lady. She says she wishes to speak to you
on a matter of extreme importance.'

Why do you let people of this kind into
the house, Charles ? ' said Mrs. Daylesford, frets

2

fully. ' You surely ought to know that she has
only coKie here to beg.'

I don't think she has, ma'am — at least, if
she has, it is Dr. Simonds who has sent her, or
advised her to come.'

Then why didn't you tell me so at
once ? ' said Zeph. ' Bring her here, please.'
And then she thought, ' Perhaps it is that poor
girl who is a model, Juliet — JuHet Meyrick — I
will be kind to her if it is, for I did her a
great injustice.'

The footman soon returned ushering in
tall graceful lady dressed in dark grey, whose
face was almost hidden by a veil. Zeph rose
to receive her. She stood hesitating by the
door. Then she spoke, and Zeph immediately
became aware that this was Hester Langdale ;
but she felt no repugnance to the sight of her —
to wish to escape from what was about to be
said — something in the speaker's voice and
manner conquered her at once.

Forgive me for thus intruding,' said
Hester, coming rather nearer, but pausing at a

little distance from Mrs. Daylesford, who was
standing with one hand resting on a chair by
her side ; ' I hope you will forgive me ; my
hope is to be of service to you. Dr. Simonds
has talked of you very often lately, and has
told me of your desire to be the means of
discovering thee papers which are so important
to your husband and his family. Dr. Simonds
told me of the appearance seen by you in the
long gallery at Berkhampstead Castle, and also
of what occurred to Mr. Blackmore's little
daughter. I have thought a great deal about
everything that he has told me. I seem to
have spent night after night in thinking of
nothing else. And at last I think I have
perhaps hit upon a solution of what you both
saw, which, with the addition of a fragment of
evidence I myself am able to supply, may
possibly help you to put your husband in the
way of finding what has baffled him so long.'

Zeph's heart stood still — it was too good to
be true. Then just because she wished for
this so much, a slight feeling of mistrust took

possession of her, and she said, 'Why do you
wish to give this information to me ? '

Hester wavered a little. Mrs. Daylesford's
words seemed almost cruel. She could say all
that seemed necessary in a methodical, straightforward
manner, but when suddenly checked,
or made to see that she was acting in a very
unusual way, her courage failed her at once.
To whom should I give it,' she answered
sadly, ' if not to you ? Dr. Simonds ridicules
me for seeming to recognise the existence of
ghosts — he would not listen to me for a
moment. If I had not come to you I must
have kept this to myself — I might, perhaps,

have gone to your lawyer, but ' and here

she seemed to take courage. ' But I am not
speaking truly — I had another reason for
coming to you ; if I tell it to you I entreat
you not to be angry with me, or pained — I
seemed to gather from what Dr. Simonds said
that you were ill and unhappy — very unhappy,
and that some difference had arisen between
you and some one dear to you, and it seemed

to me that if I could come to you and persuade
you to listen to certain fancies which have
come into my head, and to act on certain suggestions
which I wish to make, that perhaps
I might be doing you a service — and doing
him one too, for no doubt he is as unhappy as
you. That is all,' said Hester, humbly, ' that
is what made me venture to come.'

You are very good ! ' exclaimed Zeph,
warmly. ' No ! good does not half express it.
You are very generous, and I am unworthy
of '

Let me tell you what I think,' interrupted
Hester, and it seemed as if she were in great
fear of her courage giving way. ' Let me tell
you all, and you shall judge whether I am
right in being so sanguine of success. I earnestly
trust that I am not comforting myself
with a vain hope and misleading you.'

But do sit down,' said Zeph, giving her a
chair, for up to this time the two girls had
been standing, and Zeph, who was so nervous
that she was scarcely able to keep her feet, had

little doubt that Hester was feeling as she did.
Tears rose to Hester's eyes, but she recovered
herself in a moment. ' Thank you,' she said,
with a slight shiver of dismay. ' I will not sit
I had rather not — I could not — I am only
going to stay a moment, only until I have told
you what I came to say.'

Zeph, full of pity for her, advanced a little
nearer. Hester said nervously, ' Take no notice
of me, I entreat you. Let me say what I wish
to tell you — I must do it in a businesslike
manner, or I cannot do it at all. Dr. Simonds
said that when you were at Berkhampstead, on
the anniversary of Mr. Blackmore's death, you
chanced to be in the long gallery about midnight,
and you saw an old gentleman dressed
in brown, and wearing a shade over the left eye,
coming, candle in hand, along the gallery towards
you, and that you, thinking he was a
visitor to the castle, and knowing that you
were in a fancy dress which would seem strange
to him, drew back a little till he passed, but
that he suddenly disappeared, and you, after

speaking of this at breakfast next morning,
and receiving some explanation which seemed
sufficient, thought no more of what you had
seen.'

That is quite true. I was easily led to
believe that I had seen an old friend of the
family, and I always did think so until some little
time ago when I had a visit from the present
Mr. Blackmore, and was so startled by the likeness
between him and the gentleman I had seen
in the gallery, that I made enquiries of him.
Ah ! what a great deal of disappointment this
caused me, for I began to think that the apparition
in the gallery would lead to the discovery
of the secret.'

So it will, I hope ; I believe it has put the
clue in my hands.'

In your hands ! ' exclaimed Zeph, with
exquisite pain, and then she bowed her head
and thought, * I was not worthy to do it ; she
was.'

Yes,' said Hester, ' I think so. I hope so.
Let me go on. Your lawyer told you that his

sister when young had gone through an experience
of the same kind, only it took place
during her father's lifetime.'

Yes,' replied Zeph, ' he said so — that was
what puzzled me. Why should she see her
father's ghost while he was still alive ? '

That is what gave me the clue,' said
Hester, 'not at first, but after some thought.
His little sister saw her father walking through
the gallery, and he suddenly disappeared. I
take that to mean that he was actually there.
He had gone down to the castle on business ;
and late at night, when he expected the whole
household to be asleep, he visited some secret
hiding-place where these important papers were
kept. When he disappeared he had pressed
a spring, and entered some secret door. That
was the reason of his disappearance. The
figure she saw was her own father. It was
very different with you — at least I think so.
You may consider me superstitious, but you
know the circumstances under which the poor
old gentleman died. I cannot help thinking

that you saw his ghost paying a midnight
visit to the place which he was about to visit
when he died.'

I do believe there is something in it ! ' said
Zeph, trembling with excitement, 'I never
thought of this myself — I never should have
thought of it ; but you said you had other
proof.'

Yes,' replied Hester, speaking with much
effort, for this was a personal matter, ' I have, I
trust, more proof. Some years ago, Mr. Godfrey
Daylesford gave me a small embroidered velvet
blotting-book. It had been cut open in the
search for papers. Some papers were found
between the velvet and the boards, but it was
considered that they had only been put thereto
wedge out the embroidery, for after they had
been exposed to heat, and experimented on
with various acids, they were regarded as
valueless and left in the case. They were, for
the most part, sheets of blank paper, but one
had a kind of rough plan on it, and on re-examining
it, after hearing what Dr. Simonds told

me, I have come to the conclusion that it maybe
a plan of the long gallery and the rooms
opening out of it, and there is a something indicated
by lines of shading, which may be a narrow-passage,
and if so, it perhaps leads to a secret
chamber which may be the place where the
papers were kept.' Here, Hester, who had not
come to that house or into Zephyrs presence
without a violent effort, broke down and burst
into tears, but she struggled with herself and
tried to say more. Zeph was by her side in a
moment, and took her hand, saying, ' God forever
bless you, Hester Langdale, for what you
have done now ! I know why you have done it,
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
If you had not been good and generous, you
would not have come here. You know that I

and -' But here Zeph paused, she could

not add what she had meant to add, ' that
Godfrey and I are parted, and you are trying
to reconcile us.' »

Go to the castle with an architect,' said
Hester, 'and see if there is any ground for

what I have imagined, and you had better have
Mr. Blackmore with you, for he will take charge
of the papers if you are so fortunate as to be
successful.' Hester was hurrying through what
remained to do, for her strength was failing
fast.

Oh no, no, I cannot do that ; there is a
coldness about these professional men which
simply kills me. If I went there with them
and found nothing, I should be ill.'

You ought to have help. This secret
hiding-place must be very well concealed, or it
would have been found years ago. I hope this
is the plan, but I am sure no one but an architect
can understand it.'

I will go to Mr. Blackmore in the morning
and ask him to hold himself in readiness to
come to Berkhampstead with an architect next
day — but I must have a little time to look
about before they come — I must see if there is
any such place as you think. Let me go alone
first — I shall be better prepared for disappointment
if I do.'

Here is the plan, then,' said Hester, handing
her the blotting-book.

But you are giving me the whole thing ! '
said Zeph. 'I need not have the case — the plan
is quite enough for me.'

Take all,' replied Hester, gently, ' it is
more in its place in your hands than in mine.
And now I will go. I must thank you for
listening to me so kindly, and request you, if
you succeed, never to let any one know that I
have done anything to help you.'

Oh, don't ask that — it would be most
unjust — your goodness must not remain unknown
! '

I entreat you to yield to my wish. I could
not bear to have my name mentioned, or my
poor share in the discovery discussed. You
may say that I gave you the blotting-book if
you are obliged to say anything, but avoid it if
you can, and you must say no more. Promise
me this, or you will give me pain.'

I promise,' said Zeph, ' but I would much
rather tell the truth. I ought to tell it — you

have been so good and noble. As long as I
live, whether the papers are found or not, and
whatever happens, I shall be grateful to you.'

Don't praise me ! don't thank me ! You
have been very kind to me, and I feel your
kindness ! ' said Hester, fervently, and she
turned to leave the room.

Ah, you are going, and I can do nothing,'
said Zeph. She could not bear to see her go
thus, and hurrying to her side, took her hand
and said, ' God bless you ! Thank you once
more. I would give anything to be as good as
you are ! '

CHAPTEE XXXV.

IT IS A THING ON WHICH I HAVE SET MY HEART.

This day
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love. — Henry V.

Zeph was at Mr. Blackmore's office next
morning before he himself arrived there. Her
horses were impatiently pawing the ground,
and she was impatiently walking backwards and
forwards to make the time of waiting seem
shorter. ' I want to go back to Berkhampstead,'
said she, the moment she saw him, ' I suppose
there can be no objection — you must let me go
I shall not stay so long as I did before, I
hope, and I want to go this morning.'

Mr. Blackmore was astonished at the change
in her appearance. She was not like the same
person. She held her head erect, and her eyes
were bright with renewed hope. When he had

taken her into his room and heard as much as
she chose to tell him of the circumstances which
had wrought such a change, he felt it his duty
to crush this hope at once. ' I am sorry to say
anything to damp you,' said he, ' but if you had
the least idea of the character of the search instituted
by the two Mr. Daylesfords, my clients,
you would not for one moment entertain the
hope of succeeding where they failed.'

'I have heard something of it. Mrs.
Sanderson told me last time I was there, that
there was not one square inch in the castle
which had not been thoroughly examined at
least half a dozen times, by at least half a dozen
people.'

She told you the truth. No search could
have been more exhaustive.'

Did you look for secret chambers ? '

Secret chambers rarely exist, except in
novels ; but we did look for them, and had there
been any at Berkhampstead we must have
found them.'

Oh, but, Mr. Blackmore, I have a plan

VOL. III. s

which seems to point to the existence of something
of the kind. It may not be a room, but
it is certainly a passage, and surely there would
not be a passage unless it led somewhere. I
know that part of the castle so well that I am
quite certain no one knows of the existence of
any passage in the place in which it is marked
in the plan.'

In spite of himself the lawyer was slightly
startled. ' May I see this plan ? ' he asked
eagerly.

If I show it to you will you promise not
to take the task of looking for this room out of
my hands ? I wish to be the one to make the
discovery — it is a thing on which I have set
my heart. You must arrange for me to go
there with my brother, and to stay till I either
succeed, or give up all hope — I don't want you
to come until I summon you.'

Your wishes shall be respected,' said the
lawyer, bowing. ' But there is one condition
which I must make — I cannot allow you to
interfere with the fabric of the castle — no walls

must be pulled down unless I am there to
sanction it.'

Of course not ! ' replied Zeph, ' it will not
be necessary. I should not think of doing
such a thing; I will show you the plan.'

He got up to ring the bell to send some one
to the carriage for it — he expected to see a
large imposing-looking roll of paper backed
with linen for protection, and was wholly
unprepared to see Mrs. Daylesford take out her
purse and look in one of its pockets for half a
sheet of note-paper which she had folded up
small and placed there. That Alas the plan !
There was nothing but a few rough lines made
by a quill-pen — a child might have done it as
an amusement. He thought she had taken
leave of her senses. ' There is nothing even to
show that this has anything to do with Berk-hampstead
Castle,' said he, coldly ; ' any one of
us who where engaged in the search might have
had this paper in his hands a hundred times,
and have laid it down each time as a things of
no possible use or values

2

You did have it in your hands ! All of
you had it, and you all laid it down as valueless
! This may not be the clue, but any of
you may have had the real clue in your hands
just as often, and have refused to see any importance
in it. I may do no good when I am
there, but I want to go, and you must let me doit,
and remember that you have promised not
to come to me until I summon you.'

My dear Mrs. Daylesford, there is nothing
here to make me wish to reopen the search —
nothing ; I remember it now, perfectly. I
should not think of going. You are too
sanguine — you are preparing a great disappointment
for yourself Why should this
scrawl — for it is little more — be Berkhampstead
rather than any other place? It is only a
scrap of paper that was used as padding.'

Ostensibly it was, but that may have been
to hide it more securely. You say it is not
Berkhampstead, but it is. It is meant for the
long gallery and the rooms opening out of it.
Though it is only a scrawl, I can see that.

This is my bed-room — look, there are the
three windows at the end of it which look out
on the garden. Next comes a large room
which the housekeeper said was not used
because it wanted refurnishing ; the secret
room is on one side of it — that is, if I am right —
and after that the rooms my father and mother
had. The secret room seems only to be a long
slip between them.'

It is such a slip that it is no room at all,
it looks like nothing but a little thickening of
the wall by a bad draughtsman. A person
willing to see, can see anything he likes in a
scrawl of this description. It might just as easily
be explained into being a plan of this office.'

Zeph sighed.

L can give you another reason why this
cannot be what you think — a reason fatal to
your theory.'

Let me hear it — tell me quickly,' this
time she feared what he said was the fact.

The papers were concealed by Mr.
Daylesford. He wished them to be kept in

safety, but in some place where his father could
never find them. If there was a secret room,
the father would be quite as well aware of its
existence as the son, and if they had been
placed there the old man might have found
them at any moment.'

I am not convinced,' replied Zeph ; ' it
sounds convincing, but it is not. The Earl was
a very old man, he might have forgotten that
there was such a place, and his son might have
known that he had — most likely he did. Anyhow,
Lord Berkhampstead would never go toit.
Why should he ? Such places are dangerous,
they are not safe for old people, there
was nothing to take him to it, I expect that
Mr. Daylesford locked them up in some strong
box and left them there in all confidence.'

You are mistaken,' said Mr. Blackmore,
and yet, though his words were still incredulous
and scornful, he had become very grave and
thoughtful, and he stood gazing at the plan as
if he had more belief in it than he was prepared
to admit. 'I cannot help fancying that I have

seen this plan somewhere or other very recently,'
said he, — ' since I saw it in Mr. Cyril
Daylesford's blotting-book, I mean.'

Perhaps your father had a di;^>licate copy.
If I am right, and it is what I think, your
father would be very likely to have one.'

Oh no, he had nothing of the kind, it is
only a fancy of mine that I have seen it,' said
he, giving her the sheet of paper.

My train goes at eleven,' said she, ' I
must leave you. I have two or three things todo
before I oro.'

c

Remember ! No pulling down of walls,'
said he, with a smile of benevolent superiority.

None ! You will come at once, if I telegraph
for you ? '

Oh, certainly I will. I will come without
fail,' said he, still smiling.

I really mean what I say,' said Mrs. Dales
— she was afraid that he did not. He
persisted in mocking her enterprise. ' You
must let no business here in London prevent
you.'

Nothing shall prevent me ! If you telegraph
for me, madam, I shall consider that
you have made some discovery so important
that every other engagement shall give way to
my business with you. I repeat, emphatically,
nothing shall prevent me.'

Zeph felt sobered at once. How could he
speak so? Had he forgotten his father, and
w^iat had come to prevent him ? She was just
leaving the room when he said, ' Let me give
you one caution ; in the, I fear, highly improbable
event of your finding the evidence that
has been lost so long, be careful to place it
where there is no possibility of its being tampered
with — or, better still, make no examination
of it until trustworthy witnesses are with
you.'

I never thought of making any examination
at all,' said Zeph. ' You shall do that. All
I propose to do while I am alone is to ascertain
whether there is a concealed room or not.
As soon as I am sure of that, I shall send for
you and wait.'

Mr. Blackmore could not help smiling at
himself as he went back to his dingy room
after taking Mrs. Daylesford to her carriage.
He had actually at last been so led away by
her confident manner, that he had begun to
speak as if success were possible, whereas he
was perfectly convinced that there was not the
remotest prospect of it. He knew what had
been done at Berkhampstead already, and did
not believe that it was in mortal power to do
more. As for secret chambers, they were part
of the properties of the Minerva Press, and the
plan which had affected Mrs. Daylesford's
imagination so much was apparently the work
of a child. He was very busy, and had mighty
little time to think of the absurd imaginings of
a pretty, but empty-headed woman.' They
were absurd, and every time he had a moment's
leisure he told himself so, and yet all
through that morning, while he was mentally
pooh-cooling what was making her so happy,
a curious undercurrent of memory was at work
in his mind, and late in the afternoon, it

gathered force enough to make him exclaim,
I believe I have it ! ' He was now sure that
he had seen that plan, or its counterpart, within
the last twelve months, and he knew where.
It must have been among some papers of his
father's. He took a key and opened a drawer
in a writing-table which had been his father's,
and after some search he found a twin plan,
Line for line, so far as he could remember, it
exactly resembled that which Mrs. Daylesford
had shown him. He was so startled that he
turned cold. ' How that woman will exult
over us all,' he thought, ' if she succeeds where
we failed ! And I really do believe she will !
It begins to look as if she had got hold of the
key to the mystery at last ! ' Many hours
before he found his father's copy of the plan,
Zeph had lost hers. The station at Euston was
crowded, and some deft pickpocket stole her
purse with perfect ease and safety. She never
missed it, and went on her way buoyed up by
the possession of the paper.

My advice,' said Jack, ' is that before we

begin to eat our luncheon or do anything else,
we go into the long gallery and get to know
exactly Avhat it is like, and then we shall get to
know what things are likely to seem hard to
US, and can think how best to manage them
while we seem to be doing nothing.'

That's a good idea,' replied Zeph, cheerily ;
let us go.'

We may get to know where that door is
likely to be — perhaps it is behind some large
piece of furniture.'

I don't believe that there is any large
piece of furniture — in fact, I am sure there
isn't.'

They went upstairs at once. The wales of
the gallery were lined with panelled oak, and
not only was there no doorway visible, but the
panelling was so made that it was at once
evident that no cunningly concealed doorway
could exist.

Don't you see, Zeph, that there can't bea
secret door,' said Jack. ' If there was one
it would have to be cut through the middle

of one of these panels and every one would
see it.'

Zeph saw that he was right and that the
panelling was so arranged that concealment
was out of the question. And yet if there was
the slip of a room or passage indicated on her
plan, there must be some way of getting into
it. ' I will look at the plan,' said she, ' that
will no doubt give us some hint.'

Then she discovered her loss, and was so
cast down that she could eat no luncheon. ' It
looks as if fate were dead against us,' said she.

Nonsense ! ' said Jack. ' Don't you be
down-hearted. It's vexing, but that's all, and
there will be more honour and glory for us
if we succeed without it. I'll go and get the
key of that room they keep locked. We will
look there.' The shut-up room was a large,
dull-looking apartment between that which
Zeph had always occupied, and that in which
her father and mother had slept. There was
no reason for its being shut up except that the
hangings of the bed and coverings of the chairs

and sofas had grown shabby. It woidd not
have been shut up if the castle had been occupied,
but there were more rooms already than
were ever wanted, and this was not to be used
until it was refurnished. It was an oppressively
dull-looking room, and though Zeph and Jack
had examined it as they had examined every
other place when last they were there, it looked
as if the door had not been open for years. Alas,
this time also they found nothing to reward
their pains, though they tapped the walls on
every side.

How wide the walls are ! ' observed Jack,
when he was locking the door again. They
were wide. Zeph was in the gallery, and Jack
close by her in this deeply recessed doorway
which was big enough to make a tolerably good
closet. It was the only door in the gallery
which stood so far back.

I'll tell you what I think,' said Jack, ' when
you fancied you saw a ghost, some fellow was
just hiding in here — there is room enough to
hide, and no one who was a little farther along

the gallery would see him. How far off were
you?'

Oh, don't waste time on that,' replied Zeph ;
the person I saw did not hide — he was too
old and grave to play stupid tricks, and he
could not have gone into the room, for the door
was always locked then just as it is now —
Godfrey told me so.'

They looked through the other rooms —
they tapped the walls of the gallery to see if
they covered hollow spaces, they did everything
that their ingenuity suggested, but nowhere
could they find the slightest indication of a door.

We are going to be disappointed again,
Jack,' exclaimed Zeph ; ' I felt that we were
when I found my plan was gone ! It seems a
thousand times harder to bear this time ! '

They dined, and then went back to the
gallery to practise some newly thought of
devices, but darkness came and found them
as far from the wished-for knowledge as ever.
They were both thoroughly weary, and one of
them was well-nigh broken-hearted.

Come and sit down and rest,' said Jack,
taking his sister's hand and leading her away.
They went into the bright and comfortable
room which was waiting to receive them, bnt
Zeph could feel nothing beyond a cruel sense
of disappointment. She sat close by Jack — he
was all she had now, and she liked to have him
near her, but was too miserable to speak to
him. At last they went to bed. They were
too much dispirited to say, ' To-morrow we will
begin afresh.' They both meant to do it, but
only as a forlorn hope.

Zeph could not sleep. She was too unhappy
to close her eyes. She lay still thinking of
each successive event in her short, sad, and
most disappointing life.

About two o'clock an idea suddenly took
forcible possession of her mind : ' Why was
that one doorway set so far back ? Why was
it so different from all the others ? And why
did the wall seem so much thicker there than
anywhere else ? The wall which ran along the
side of the gallery was a good substantial one

she could judge of its thickness by what she
saw at the entrance of all the other rooms ; but
nowhere in the gallery did it present such an
appearance as in the disused bed-room. Suppose
the secret door were placed in the panelling
on one side of the doorway ? She lit a
candle and got up, put on her dressing-gown,
and went to look at this doorway which had
suddenly become so interesting to her. She
was rather afraid of the gallery, but it would
have been perfectly impossible to her to delay
the search till morning. A glance showed her
that there was just room for a door in the wall
between the door of the disused bed-room and
the gallery. Another glance showed her that
the oak-panelling was arranged rather differently.
And yet, after all, it was arranged in
the only way that was practicable in such a
narrow space. There were two oblong panels,
one set above another. Both sides of the
doorway were alike. Her recollection of the
plan she had lost made her turn to the side
nearest to the room in which her father and

mother had slept. Perhaps if she could but
find a spring, or the trick of setting some
machinery in motion, the whole of one side of
the doorway would open, and such a door, if it
existed, would certainly never be suspected by
a passer-by. Where was this spring ? What
was it F Two oblong panels, with plain but
deeply cut mouldings, do not present much
opportunity for hiding elaborate springs. She
pushed the centre of one panel — then that of
the other — then of the two together. After
this she put her hands on the mouldings and
tried to push them up or down, sometimes
together and sometimes apart — next she tried
to jjush them sideways. Nothing stirred.
Finally, after a long time spent in vain attempts
of all kinds, she touched a small round bit of
metal, concealed at the top of the moulding of
the upper panel. It was not bigger than the
head of a large nail. To her inexpressible
delight she found that this could be pressed
down. She did press it down, but it produced
no effect. She was by no means daunted by

VOL. III. T

this, more especially as she found that there
was no such knob above the moulding on the
other side of the way. She began to go
through all the operations she had already tried
with no result, but this time she combined
them with holding down the little knob. She
put her hand to the moulding, once more
pushed it laterally in the direction of the bedroom,
pressed down the knob at the same time,
and almost to her horror — for the result was
so immediate and unhoped for — the panelling
slipped noiselessly away and she saw a black
cavity before her. She leaned against the door
of the bed-room, and struggled with a disposition
to faint. She soon overcame this, and
took her candle to look, but could see nothing
but a long and very narrow passage with an
arched roof, cut in the thickness of the wall.
She dared not enter it alone, and hurried breathlessly
away to fetch Jack. He was sleeping
soundly, and looked so young, so beautiful,
and so happily removed from the troubles and
anxieties which were afflicting her, that, she had

not the heart to awaken him, for she knew how
weary he was. ' If I love Godfrey, I ought to
be able to venture into that place,' she thought.
I will just see if it leads anywhere, and then
go back to bed.' Animated by this thought,
she returned to the gallery, entered the narrow
passage, and, with a certain amount of trepidation,
walked a few paces forward. She was
checked by finding herself at the top of a long
and very steep flight of steps which seemed to
lead down to unknown depths. In still greater
alarm she ventured to descend these, holding
by the rough walls and scratching her hands
against them as she went. The air felt colder
and more chill each step she took. Finally,
she reached the bottom and found a door, which
she opened. It led into a long and narrow
space too small to be called a room, and
scarcely wider than an ordinary passage. The
walls were bare, and there was no furniture
but an old writing-table, on which stood a
strong-looking box of black oak, clamped with
iron. She remembered her promise and did

T 2

not attempt to open it, but a feeling of overpowering
joy and gratitude took possession of
her, for there, surely, must be the papers. She
dropped on her knees to return thanks for
heaven's bounty to her. She went close to the
table, but forbore even to touch the box. She
was firmly resolved that she would be in a
position to tell the lawyer that she had not
attempted to open it. Then she looked around.
On one side there was a rusty grate, on the
other a curious blurred light which was produced
by the dim grey light of early morning
struggling through a dense screen of ivy which
entirely covered the outside of the window.
Uttering mute but passionate prayers that the
box might contain what her husband wanted,
Zeph stole back to the gallery. She was able
to close the door ; all trace of her discovery
was removed, and now none but herself knew
that secret. She felt the danger of this, went
to her room, and wrote to her husband : ' If I
die to-night, Godfrey, before I am able to tell
any one what I have discovered, this paper will

inform you that the passage leading to the
secret room is near the entrance to the room
which is now never used.' Then followed a
minute description of the spot and directions
for opening the door, after which she added,
I wish you, my dear husband, to know that I
entirely loved and honoured you, and desired
your forgiveness more than anything else on
earth.' That done, she went to bed. She was
more happy than tongue can tell.

By five o'clock she had roused the servants
and had sent off one of them on horseback to
summon Mr. Blackmore. At eight she went to
Jack's little bed and awoke him that he might
hear the great news. His eyes looked so large
and he stared at his sister with so much admiration,
that she soon saw what he thought of
the magnitude of her achievement. 'I hope
you have sent for old Mr. Blackmore ? ' said he.

Zeph was alarmed. ' Jack ! Jack ! ' said
she, ' for Heaven's sake, don't say that ! Don't
say " old Mr. Blackmore," for fear the real old
one appears ! Get up and come down, I have had

110 sleep and am ao hungry. What shall we do
till that man arrives ? '

She went into the breakfast room, and was
startled by finding Mrs. Scatcherd there. ' You
did not expect to see me, dear Mrs. Daylesford,'
said she. 'I happened to hear of your being
here, and as I was away when you were here
last time I came at once. That dear angel of
a husband of yours has got the Crown to give
us a living. I believe he asked for one for us
twelve months ago. We are going to leave
this place at once. We are done with all the
boys we have been training up in the way they
ought to go so long ; they may go where they
like now, and turn out just as they choose.
How lovely you look, my dear ! How do you
think I am bearing all the wear and tear I have
been enduring lately ? '

You are bearing it splendidly ! You look
charming,' replied Zeph, vrho knew what was
expected of her.

Ah ! You always were a dear good girl,
and your husband always was a dear kind man,

and the only thing which makes me not like to
accept this living the Crown has just given us,
is leaving you and him and having to pay that
eighty pounds they always do get out of you
when they give you a Crown living. And that
reminds me — one of the things which brought
me here so early this morning is that I want to
know if Dr, Scatcherd and I, and the dear
children, of course, can come and stay here
for a week or so, while our furniture is being
moved to our new home ? You see it is quite
impossible for us to be in the rectory here when
once our furniture is taken away, and it is impossible
for us to be in the rectory the Crown
has given us, until the furniture has been unpacked
and put in its place there ; so I thought
as your husband had got us the living, you,
dear, might like to do something kind for us,
too, and would take us in while you are here.
It would be very pleasant for us to be with
you, and much more comfortable than any
other arrangement.'

It is Mr. Blackmore who settles things of

this kind, not I,' replied Zeph ; ' I have to ask
him when I want to come myself. He will be
here this morning — I have sent for him. Oh,
what is thisbe Mrs. Scatcherd, do excuse me.'

A servant had given her a note, and to he*-
surprise it was from Mr. Blackmore himself.
Dear Madam,' he wrote, 'I have found a
paper which seems to my mind to support your
theory so strongly that I feel it my duty, in the
interest of my clients, to be on the spot. I left
London last night, by the late train, and have
slept at the village inn here, but I earnestly
request you to make no objection to my coming
to the house. If anything should be discovered,
extreme pains should be taken to have witnesses
present who can testify to the circumstances
under which the documents are found. Doubts
may be cast on their validity unless this is
attended to. You will see this as I do, and
pardon my apparent disregard of your wishes.
The paper I have found materially alters the
aspect of affairs.'

Go to Mr. Blackmore and request him to

come here without a moment's delay,' said Mrs.
Daylesford, eagerly ; ' say that I have already
despatched a messenger to town on the same
errand.'

Ah, Mr. Blackmore will be here then,
directly,' exclaimed Mrs. Scatcherd. ' That is
nice ! I shall have an excellent opportunity
for arranging with him about our little visit, as
you say he is to be asked ; ' and so saying, she
slowly settled down into the easiest chair in the
room.

1 am afraid that I must ask you to leave
me alone with Mr. Blackmore,' said Zeph ; ' I
have to talk with him on important business ! '

Then will you arrange with him about our
coming here ? ' said Mrs. Scatcherd.

'Yes, I will arrange with him,' replied
Zeph, who was ready to promise anything if
she would but go away. And thus Mrs.
Scatcherd departed, then, as ever, compassing
her own ends.

Before Zeph had half finished her breakfast,
Mr. Blackmore came. He entered the room

briskly. ' I have found a plan I ' he said
joyously ; but Zeph interrupted him.

I have lost one ! ' said she. ' My pocket was
picked ; but that is of no consequence, not the
least. Come upstairs, I have something to show
you.'

The lawyer had no idea her success had been
so decided, and said, in a commonplace way,
while going upstairs, ' Was there much in it ? '

In what .^ ' asked Zeph.

In your purse.'

Twenty pounds, perhaps ; why do you ask?
How can you think of such things as that ? '

She took him to the secret door — secret no
longer — she opened it, and was about to enter ;
but he drew her back and made the butler and
the housekeeper come, and then in a strong
body they went, one by one, along that dark
and narrow passage, and down those steps
which were obscure even when lighted by three
candles. Mr Blackmore was now as excited
as Zeph herself Jack, who had followed them,
was the most collected of the party. ' There,'

exclaimed Zeph, ' is the oak box ! I saw it
when I came in early this morning, but I remembered
your instructions, and did not even
touch it.'

Touch it now, madam,' said he ; ' this is
your discovery, and you, in our presence, shall
examine the contents.'

Trembling with anxiety, she tried to raise
the lid, but the box was locked. Mr. Blackmore,
however, had brought with him some
keys he had found in his father's desk, and the
first which Zeph tried — a little odd-looking key
with an old-fashioned handle — turned in the
lock at once. The box contained some papers?
and they carried it into the corridor to examine
them by daylight.

'Will you do it, Mr. Blackmore?' said
Zeph, ' my poor hands tremble so, I can do nothing.'


So the lawyer took her place, and she and
the two servants silently watched him lift out
the papers which might mean so much.

'Victory ! ' he cried, ' Victory ! ' waving a

dingy paper in triumph. ' How I wish my dear
clients had been here! Mr. Marmaduke and
Mr. Godfrey Daylesford ought to have been
here ! This is the certificate of their father's
marriage with Miss Janet Murray. I now see
what has made the discovery so difficult. We
have all believed that they were married in
Austria, or somewhere on the continent — we
were always told so, in fact — but it seems that
they came home to their own country for the
ceremony. They were married at Teeth on
May 14, 18 — , just two years before Mr. Mar-mature's
birth. I do not wonder that the
register was never found. Teeth is in Yorkshire
— it is an out-of-the-way place now, but
at the time of their marriage it must have been
well-nigh inaccessible. I remember hearing
that the people in the villages near went on
praying for George III. until William IV. was
on the throne — so they were not likely to know
how much that register was wanted — but here
is a copy of it, and any one who doubts its
authenticity can go and consult the register for

himself. Now that I know where to find it —
now that we know where the marriage took
place — I shall go at once. I will go this very
evening, but this is sufficient to establish all
that my clients have been wanting to establish
so long — Mr. Marmaduke Daylesford is, as his
brother always said he was, Earl of Berkhamp-
stead, and he will find it perfectly easy to prove
his claim. It is you, madam,' said the lawyer,
turning to Zeph, ' it is you who, under Providence,
have been the means of reinstating
him in his rights ! He might hr.ve lived and
died without ever having his claim recognised
if it had not been for your great sagacity,
your most remarkable perseverance and patience
under discouragement (to my shame
I own that I discouraged you myself), and
your untiring devotion to your husband's interests.'


Oh, Mr. Blackmore, I don't deserve
that,' said Zeph, '1 have done a little — a
very little ; but some one else, to whom I shall
be for ever grateful, has done much more.

Had it not been for her, I could have done
nothing.'

I don't know, madam,' exclaimed Mrs.
Sanderson, ' I am very sure no human being
could have worked harder ! I shouldn't have
liked to slave so myself ! '

1 don't know, either,' said Mr. Blackmore,
but I feel as if our success was entirely due to
you, and I am certain that no event could
possibly have occurred which could give your
husband more satisfaction — more happiness, I
ought to say — than this.'

Was Zeph entirely changed? Something
had just been said which, in former days, would
have offended and pained her deeply. Mr.
Blackmore had affirmed that no event could
possibly have occurred which would afford her
husband more happiness than this. It was evident,
therefore, that in the lawyer's estimation
reconciliation with his wife occupied quite a
secondary place in Godfrey's mind. Zeph
never so much as observed this, for her
whole attention was given to a circumstance

which filled her with delight — Mr. Blackmore
had begun to use the word ' husband '

"&"

again !

The first thing Zeph did was to go into her
own room and write a long and deeply grateful
letter to Hester Langdale.

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

GOOD NEWS FOR YOU, DEAR ZEPH.

Some ships reach happy ports that are not steered.

Cymheline.

And to think said Mr. Blackmore, when he
was taking leave of Mrs. Daylesford an hour
later, for he was not able to stay any longer —
to think that I do not know how to send this
joyful intelligence to your husband ! '

You don't ! ' exclaimed Zeph, and her
spirits sank to zero in a moment. She had
cherished a secret hope that Godfrey's journeyings
were not so much a matter of ignorance to
the lawyer as he would have her suppose.
Then you really do not know ! '

There was so much misery in her voice
that Mr. Blackmore hesitated ; he did not like
to answer her. Observing that he hesitated,

she raised her eyes to his to see if a vestige of
hope remained for her. ' You really do not
know,' she repeated. ' It is true, then, no one
knows where to find him ! '

We don't know now, but we soon shall,'
he replied cheerfully. ' Don't be anxious
about that.'

Telegraph to the Governor,' said she, ' he
will know if any one does.'

That is done ! I did it as soon as we
came downstairs. Of course, I did that immediately.'


What did you say ? '

" The papers are found. Come at once." '

And you really do not know where Mr.
Daylesford is ? ' for still she could not believe
it.

The lawyer was unfeignedly sorry for her.
We shall soon know,' he replied ; ' perhaps
the Governor knows already ; Mr. Daylesford
was in Siberia when last I heard from him, but
even if he is not there now. Lord Berkhamp-
stead will contrive to recall him somehow.

VOL. III. U

Don't think of the difficulty of finding him,
think what a joyful home-coming he will
have ! '

I might have gone up to town with you
if I had thought of it,' said Mrs. Daylesford.
'As it is, I think I shall stay here till tomorrow.'


Pardon me, you must let me look after
you a little, and I think you ought to stay
here for some time. You have been in London
all the summer and-ought to have a change.
Lord Berkhampstead will probably be the first
to arrive. Stay till he comes, and be hereto
receive him.'

No,' said Zeph, firmly ' I cannot do that ;
Godfrey would not like it.'

'Not like it! Who ought to be here at
this juncture, but you? I am quite certain
that Lord Berkhampstead would be very much
hurt if he knew that you had any hesitation.
You naturally wish to be on the spot when
your husband's brother, and I hope your
husband himself, arrive. London is not

healthy now. This is your proper place. Let
your unmarried sister come to bear you company.'


Ah, Mr. Blackmore, you do not know how
things are ! ' said poor Zeph, very piteously.

I know nothing but that everything is
going to be all right again, and as happy as it
can possibly be,' said the lawyer, almost nervously.
' I entreat you to stay a while.'

Mrs. Daylesford yielded. She, too, had a
strong hope that all was going to be well once
more. She would have had to yield in any
case, for the excitement of the past weeks told
on her, and next day she was ill. The snatched
came and went, but Zeph passed the
greater part of their visit in her room. Lord
Berkhampstead came too, but alone. He did
not know where Godfrey was. He was very
kind to Zeph, and very grateful, but Lord
Berkhampstead was not Godfrey.

Will your brother ever forgive me ? '
asked Zeph.

Of course he will — he has forgiven you ;

¥2

he blames himself, and loves you most truly.
Don't allow yourself to think the contrary ; do
your best to get well and strong, so that there
may be no cloud on his happiness when he
returns. Stay here till he does, I ask it as a
favour.'

You are kinder than I deserve,' said she.
'I am bitterly ashamed when I think of the
past.'

She did stay; she took to heart what he
had said, and did her best to recover her
health, but that was rather difficult, for most
of her thoughts were auy thing but cheerful.

She seemed to have lived a long, longtime,
and yet she could scarcely recall one
event of her life of which she could think with
any satisfaction. She hated and despised herself.
She had been so vain of her beauty that
she had thought herself superior to all around
her ; whereas, in reality, she had been false,
selfish, ignorant, useless, and contemptible.
She had been false to the man she really loved,
and refused to marry him because he had not

sufficient wealth to give her a full measure of
the worldly delights on which she had set her
affections. She had been still more false to the
man whom she had married. She had married
him though she loved another man. She had
repaid his love with a false show of love. She
had revelled in luxury until her heart was sofar
hardened that she had actually tried to
make her husband do a thoroughly base action.
She had sunk so low as to be able to propose
that he should dishonour his mother's name,
and commit an act of treason against his
brother. She had asked him to snatch at a
rank that the law had awarded to him even
though she knew that he could only do it at
the cost of all he held dear. She had reaped
her reward in his contempt. That had been
the turning point in her married life ; nothing
had gone well with her since that day, though
he had seemed to forgive her. How he must
have despised her ! Her cheeks tingled at the
mere thought. And yet how kind he had been !
How ready to receive her apologies, how

patient with her ignorance and dulness, how
tolerant of her insane passion for gaiety ! He
had loved her in spite of everything! Then
she had sinned again, and sinned even when
in her heart she loved him. She had dared to
bring a counter-accusation against him ! She
had upbraided him with Hester Langdale.
Never should she forget that night when,
goaded by her words and deeds, and full of
astonishment and contempt for her when he
found that she had known about Hester even
from the beginning, he had told her the truth.
He had told her then that she who had come
coldly and calmly to live with him as his
wedded wife while she loved another man, was
a wickeder woman by far than Hester who had
always loved him truly. ' His words were
hard,' she said to herself, 'they were cruel,
they nearly killed me, .but they were true !
She was a better woman than I, and Heaven
has judged between us, and let her be the
means of performing this service for Godfrey.
I should dearly have liked to perform it myself,

bnt I was unworthy. I see it. I own it. I
am filled with shame ! ' Thus did Zeph bewail
her outcast state. And yet she was not always
unhappy. There were times when her heart
was filled with the hope that Godfrey, who
had always been so patient with her, would let
her begin her life afresh.

Weeks passed, and she and Agnes were
still at Berkhampstead. The leaves which had
waved above their heads when they came were
now lying withered beneath their feet, and yet
nothing was heard of Godfrey. Towards the
end of October, Agnes was summoned home.
Jack was the one who did it ; he wrote and
told her that she ought to come, for he was sure
his mother was ill. She looked wretchedly ill,
he said, and had fainted twice.

We will leave in an hour's time,' said Zeph
to her sister. ' You and I will both go
home.'

Can they be ready for you in Ambassadors'
Gate at such a short notice .^ ' asked Agnes.

'I don't want them to be ready — I said

home,' replied Zeph. ' My old home — I meant
I am going to Lome Gardens too ; I fancy-poor
mother is only ill because she wants a
thorough change. We will see how she is today
; and if I am right, we will telegraph to
Polly to expect her and you tomorrow. You
know she has for a long time been wanting you
to go, and she will be only too glad to have
mother too.'

But father ? ' exclaimed Agnes. ' You are
quite forgetting him.*

No, I am not. I mean to stay with him
while you are away. I can do all that is
wanted.'

You ? Impossible ! He would not consent,
and you would hate it. You would not be
able to endure being at home now — you have
forgotten what it is.'

Oh no, I have not — I want to go — father
will let me write for him — he is used to having
me — Agnes, don't make any opposition ; going
away now may even save mother's life.'

They went — they found that Mrs. Treherne

really was suffering from nothing but close
confinement to one room. All was speedily
arranged with Polly, and next day Mrs. Tree
and Agnes were on their way to Axminster,
Mrs. Treherne looking better already, and
delighting in the idea of going to see her cousin
Everilda and the dearly loved places which she
had not seen since she was a girl.

And Zeph was once more in her garret
under the roof, and her father's companion at
the desk. He had submitted to the necessity
of giving his wife a holiday, and now that she
was gone he was speedily reconciled to the
change of helpmate. What thoughts coursed
through Zeph's mind that first morning she sat
by his side ! ' You must make me work, dear,'
she had said, but in reality he had nothing for
her to do. So she arranged her work herself,
and patiently and faithfully performed every
service which her mother was in the habit of
doing — nothing was too trivial, nothing too
menial for her. ' You may sweep a room to
the glory of God,' says George Herbert — Zeph

did SO. Noiselessly and punctually she each
day did what was expected of her, and in doing
it her soul found peace. Work drove out
thought — the delight of being of use filled her
mind. And yet often after sitting for hours
with her father she found that she had done
nothing more for him than pick up a pen or
find a mislaid sheet of paper, but he always
said ' Thank you, my dearest child,' and gave
her a cheering smile. There are other ways of
helping those we love than performing tasks
which are visible to the naked eye.

keep mother as long as you can,' she
wrote to her sisters ; ' father does not seem to
miss her.' Thus far had she written when she
thought of all that this sentence would mean
to her poor mother, who believed that her
husband could not exist without her. Zeph
took another sheet of paper, and wrote, ' Keep
mother as long as you can, for we are going on
very well here, and it is a real boon to me to
have anything to do which makes me feel that
I can contribute to any one's happiness. My

dear sisters, life is very quiet here, but very
happy.'

At last, but not until the Christmas holidays
began, Mrs. Treherne and Agnes came home.
Polly and her husband were coming to pay a
visit to the Simonides, so they waited for them
and all travelled to London together. Mrs.
Treherne was radiant with health and happiness,
and so pretty that it was a pleasure to look at
her. The very day after her return she fell
into her accustomed place — Zeph was superseded.


I suppose I must go back to Ambassadors'
Gate,' said she to Agnes, ' but I don't seem to
like the idea.'

Oh, wait a little longer,' pleaded Agnes ;
it is like old times having you, and now that
Polly is back again, let us all be together.'

Polly came in that very evening — John had
gone to some public dinner, and she was to stay
with her sisters until he came to fetch her on
his way home. They were very happy together
hours passed almost like minutes — Zeph had

not been so happy for more than a year. She
was lying on the sofa with her face turned to
her sisters — they where both by the lire. Suddenly
Agnes said, ' Is it not strange how when
one is quite gay and happy some thought that
has nothing whatever to do with anything that
is being said or done will keep coming into
one's mind ? There is something that will force
itself into mine, now, whether I will or not,
and it has gone on doing it all the evening.'

What is it ? ' asked Zeph ; but Agnes was
silent.

'Do say,' said Zeph, and yet she felt as if
she knew without being told. ' Come, you must
tell us now you have begun,' she added, resorting
to the old formula of their childhood.

It was stupid of me to begin,' said Agnes.
It is this. I cannot help thinking of that night
when you were here last year — don't you remember,
dear, when Godfrey came to fetch
you, quite late ? '

Zeph felt a strange thrill. Suppose — but
she resolutely crushed hope. And yet it was

strange, for all through the evening, though she
had laughed and talked of so many other
things, that recollection had been curiously
present with her, and was continually starting
forward more and more vividly from the recesses
of her mind. * One does think of stupid
things,' she said, ' I have been thinking of that
myself — I will tell you what has brought it to
our minds. I was lying on the sofa that night
just as I am doing now, only my face was
turned to the wall, and you, Agnes, were by the
fire in the very chair and very place you are
now — that's all. What was it we were talking
about just now? Oh, Polly was telling us

about Miss Everilda and her What is that ? '

she exclaimed, for a cab had stopped at the
door.

It is John,' said Polly, rising, ' and I must
go at once, for he told me I was not to keep
him waiting a moment, as his father and mother
are sure to sit up for him.'

But it cannot be John,' said Agnes, ' it is
only ten o'clock.'

'The dinner has been dull, I suppose, or
your clock is wrong. I must go. Good bye,
dears. My things are all in the dining-room —
no one need go down with me.*

She went, but though Zeph and Agnes were
not paying enough attention to be quite certain
on that point, they did not seem to hear
the house-door shut after her, or the cab
drive away. They went on talking, and forgot
about it.

Five minutes afterwards Polly came back,
breathless, and with a strangely eager expression
in her eyes. ' It was not John,' she said ;
it was some one who has brought good news
• — good news for you, dear Zeph.'

I know it,' said Zeph, faintly, ' I have felt
it coming all the evening ! Where is he ? I
know it is Godfrey.'

Downstairs,' said Polly, simply. ' He has
come, as he did before, to take you home.'

Zeph's head reeled, but she controlled herself
by a great effort and asked, ' Is he with
father?'

'No. He is in the dining-room waiting for
you. He wanted to come upstairs with me,
but I thought it better to prepare you. Come,
Zeph, won't you go down ? '

Zeph stood looking distressed and uncertain
now that the moment for which she had
prayed so long was come, her courage failed
her.

Would you rather see him here, dear ? '
said Agnes.

No,' said Zeph, humbly ; ' it is my place to
go to him, and I will go.'

She had to hold by the rail of the stairs as
she went, but when she entered the room her
step was firm — it was firm at the outset, but
she soon began to falter. There was no need
for her to put her courage to the proof; the
moment she entered the room, he was by her
side and his arms were around her. ' My Zeph
my wife, my own dear love ! ' said he, and
in a moment all the barriers which had divided
them were broken down.

I do not deserve this happiness,' said she.

He was too happy for words.

He led her to a sofa and sat down by her.
I have a great favour to ask of you,' said
she after a while, ' dear Godfrey, will you try
to forget the entire past — will you let thisbe
the beginning of our love, and our life
together ? '

I will do anything you like, my darling ;
but you want to rob me of some very happy
recollections — and I was to blame myself — but
we won't think of anything of that kind now ;
if you love me, I am the happiest man in the
world.'

I do love you, Godfrey. I love you withall
my heart and strength. I loved you long
before you went away, dear, but things made
it difficult for me to tell you so. Where have
you been all this terrible time ? '

I landed at Hull this morning.'

At Hull ! But where have you been .^ '

I have been in Asia and most of the
northern countries of Europe. I only heard
five days ago that you would like me to come

home. I have not been lone: in comiuo-
have IP'

'No. But what a long time you have
been away ; and no one could find you — no
one knew where you were ! Marmaduke
seemed to think that you were going to India
and Japan — it all seemed so vague — so miserably
uncertain.'

I did not think you cared to know. I
told him I was going to the East. I thought I
was. I did not care where I went, so long as
it was somewhere where no one could find me.
I felt as if my only chance of ever being happy
again was getting beyond the reach of the post
and hearing of things that made me wretched.'

But your brother — you wanted to hear
from him ? '

No, I didn't. You may judge by that of
the state I was in. I wanted to be quite alone
and out of reach of every one. I gave u[)
writing to Marmaduke when I was in Siberia
and never wrote again till lately — his answer
to that letter brought me home.'

VOL. III. X

Thank Heaven for that ! ' said Zeph,
fervently. ' You know that the papers are
found ? Marmaduke told you that, of course ? '

Yes, he told me that. He told me that it
was you who had found them — he was delighted,
and so was I, but I am afraid I did not care
quite so much as I ought to have done ; I was
so happy when I read that you wanted me to
come home, that I could think of nothing else ! '

At length Zeph's cup of happiness was full
to overflowing. She was sitting with her head
resting on his shoulder — his arm was around
her — she had never been so happy in her life.
The door-bell rang loudly. Daylesford started
and said, ' What is that ? Surely my cabman
cannot be taking upon himself to say that it is
time we went home ? '

How delicious the word ' home ' sounded
never had she realised what it meant before.
It is John,' she said, ' John Simonds. You
know that he and Polly are married — no, I
suppose you don't, though. It is the only
happiness we have had since you went.'

Mr. Treherne never knew that Zeph and
her husband had been otherwise than happy
together. He had not known of the quarrel,
so there was no need to tell him of the reconciliation,
but he was delighted to see his son-in-law
again, and confessed to his wife that very
night that ' excellent as John Simonds was, he
could not help preferring Godfrey Daylesford.'

My dear,' replied Mrs. Treherne — and the
very fact that she ventured to do so showed
how strong and well her long visit to the
north had made her — ' I do believe you like
him best because he has a long pedigree ! '

If I did, I could defend the position — no,
it is not that, it is something in himself.'

THE END.

PRINTED BY

erOTTISWOODE And CO., New-STREET SQUARE

London

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

CHATTO & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Soli by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Maid, Wife, or Widow? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 33 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Valerie's Fate. Post 8vo,illust.bds.,2g.

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
PostSvo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
123. 6d. Preparing.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt,7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Ci-ay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, SB. each.
Carr of Carrion.
ConfldenoM>

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Cl out's Calendar.
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., 63. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Philistia: AANovel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 28.
Babylon : A Novel. With 12 lusts.

by P. Macnab. Cheaper Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.
For Maine's Sale: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 68.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illus orations, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farrer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P,
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. oxtra^Ss. cl

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection

of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belle. With 300 Illustrations. Cr,
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria. — A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With"
87 lusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations by
H. H. Walker. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

Crown 8vo., cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
English Su names : Their Sources and

Significations. Third Ed., revised.
Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.



Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Basil, Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
EiBAUCHAMP, Post Svo, lust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra , gilt an d gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886. — One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab,— The first Chapters of Mohawks,
a New Novel by M. E.
Brandon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is so famous.
\* Now ready, the Volume for March
to June 1886, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 23. each.

Belgravia Annual for Christmas,
1885. With Stories by F. W.
Robinson, Mrs. Lynn Linton, Grant
Allen, 'Basil,' B. Montgomery
Ranking, and others. Demy 8vo, with
Illustrations, Is.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England.
Songs for Sailors

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortlboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. LucrafL
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Bret Harte, Works by :
Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
\ Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
f Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
'1 Dramatic Works. With Steel Porc
trait, and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
"" —Bohemian Papers — Spanish
AND American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
1 Beautifully printed on hand-made
', paper and bound in buckram. Cr.
8vo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy: A Novel. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post Svo, illustrated boards,
2s.
The Twins of Take Mountain. Cap.

Svo, picture cover. Is.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover. Is.
Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Maruja: A Novel. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by ;

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pp;, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SjrDavicl),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates, Post
Svo, cloth extra 4s. 64.

Brewster (Sir David), conUnued^-
The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.
Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post Svo, cl. ex., 48. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin.— Astronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brillat-Savaris
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story,

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan ».
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab,

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Carav an,

The Master of the Mine. Cheap
Edition,with a Frontispiece by W. H.
OvEREND. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
«B. 6d. UttiyiS*

Bunyan Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev, T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, gilt, 78. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword : Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo. cloth extra, 328.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 28. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Chide Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in Une
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.— To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Lovett Cameron. Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., cr. Svo, cl. ex., 2l8,

Caine. — Time Shadow of a

Crime: A Novel. By Hall Caine.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boar ds, 2g.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Candle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra.
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson.
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 188. ; or separately, 6a. each.

Chatter Jackson.— A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28a.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 68.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d,

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.
Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 6s. [/« the press.

Cloud. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's
Story, By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown Svo, Is.;
Cloth, Is. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2b. each.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer 8c Frances),

Novels by :
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post 8vo, illustrated bds.,
23. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonlna. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERx.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts, Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies, With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman In White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. DuMAURiERandF. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. Files and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep, Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time,
1 Say No."

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allstom
Collins. Post 8vo, illustrated bds.,2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Buckstonb,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Conway (MoncuJ'e D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illusts., 288.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
ey W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo
cloth extra, 63.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece. -
Nights at the Play: A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 33. 6cl. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright In
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England ; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank, Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock. — T',ie Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains, By

Charles Egbert Craddogk. Post
Svo, illust. bds., 23. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Creasy. — Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d,

Cruikshank (George) :

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
HuMOURof Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 73. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
j7 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
78. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Work8

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

in the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.
—

Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles. — Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Daniel. — Merrier England In

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
38, 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s,

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,

Is. 6d. each.

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre, — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille.— A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas NIckleby.
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.—
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
May fair Library. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, Lips. 6d.

Dictionaries;
A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,

Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra 73, 6d.; hf.-bound, 9a.

Dictionaries, continued —

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Authors and their Worlds, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
The Readers Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A: Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Plavwrights,Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 58.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and Out*
of-the-Way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 98.

Diderot. — The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's "Le Paradoxe sur lo
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.



Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
end Cheaper Ed., cr. Svo, cl. ex., 78. 61L

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer'*
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vcv
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. Svo,

cl. ex Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations,withIntroductoryEssay
by A.C.Swinburne; Vol, III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk Lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
Svo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert(Lord)ofCherbury'8 Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown Svo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs.A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: AANovel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post Sro, illutt.
boards, Ss.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History.Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 63.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J . Richardson. Third Edition.
Nearly 600 Illusts. Cr. Bvo.cl. ex.,73.6d.

English Merchants: Memoirs

in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
Frown the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy Svo cloth extra, 128.

Eyes, The.— How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With
52 Illustrations. Crown Svo Is.; cloth,
Is. 6(1.

Fairholt. — Tobacco: Its History

and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information:
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Chaises G. Wheeler. Demy
svo. cloth extra. 7t. 6d

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle:

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other:

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer. — Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farrer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," 4c. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fin-Bec — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or. Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8 vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, clo th limp, 2s. 6d.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tlllotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.

Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
S Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 7b. 6d. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Free. — Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell.— Oneof Two: AANovel.

By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 28.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3S. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.

Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects,Income,Officials,&c. Published
Annually. Cr. 8vo, cloth. Is. 6d.

Gardening Books:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower,Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them,
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers, By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Garrett. — The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. Svo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In

addition to the Articles upon subjects
i in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, " Science Notes," by W.
Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
\* Now ready, the Volume for July to

December, 1885, cloth extra, price ^i,Q^.\

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

\ German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin,
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, ?a. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a each.
Robin Gray. The Braes of Yap-for

Lack of Gold. row.
What will the The Flower «f the
World Say? Forest. [hem.

In Honour Bound. A Heart's Prob-queen
of the TheGoldenShaft.
Meadow. Of High Degree.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For the King. | InPasturesGreen,
The Dead Heart. 1 Fancy Free.
In Love and War.
By Ivied and Stream.
Heart's Delight. preparing,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. 1

A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by 1

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain;
James Duke, Posterior ager.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World— Pygmalion and - Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts— Engaged — Sweethearts—
Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb— •
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— Tha
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing :
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
—The Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — Tha
Mikado — Trial by Jury, Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Blenny.— A Year's Work In

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William GoDWiN
Post Syb, cloth limp, 2s.

IX

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennei.t'8 (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Ipvlng's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems; Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation oi Deism, Zastrozzi, St.
Irvine, &c.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited bv
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
(wilt and gilt edsss, 7s. 63,

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the. Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. HuEFFER. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo,
cloth extra , 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (Jame8),Works by;

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low Life Deeps : An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A NoveL Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 28.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind, Ey
Arnold Guvot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray*
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 48. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
PiNCUS. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, l3. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8S.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey.
and G. Cruikshank. Medium sto,
cloth extra, gilt, 78. 6d.

Holiday.— Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vq
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over loo Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix dk
Salam nca. Post 8vo, cl. l imp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
DIusta. Crown 8vo, cloth eztra,4a. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 23.

Hardy (Thomas). — Under the
Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of •' Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo. illustrated boards, 28.

Haywood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp. Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts.Ss.

The Art oS Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.]. — American

Humorists, Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell, Holmes,
Tames Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis. M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Hawthorne(Julian), Novels by

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Garth. [ Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Question. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
elotb extra, 6s. ; c}. gilt, gilt edges, 68.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by i

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social P pressure.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illus
treated boards, 28.

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 68.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins,
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier
Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
14s. [In preparation.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

Th Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jacl<. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holy. — The Lover's Creed.

B^ Mrs. Castel Holy. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:
The Autocrat of the Breakfasts
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.— Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S.
The Professor at the Breakfasts
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth Ump, 2s.



Holmes. — The Science of

Voice Production arne Voice Preset
vatlon: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, iB. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. cl.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2a.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 63.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. PostSvo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous

Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Hooper.— The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Home.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73.

Howell. — Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ol Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Hugo. — The Hunchback of
Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
sto. cloth limp, 2&

Hunt (IVIrs. Alfred), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornlcroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self Condemned

indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s,

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving (Washington),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

Janvier. — Practical Keramlcs

for Students. By Catherine A,
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6a.

Jennings (Hargrave) The

Rosicruclans: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. B/
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown 8vo
cloth extra, la. 6d.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by:

Post 8vo, Ig. each ; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Qapden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Soup Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse.— Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jeux d'Esppit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Flngep-Ring Lope: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present ; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. "With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo
cloth extra, ISg ; or separately, 6s. each',

Joseph us.The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
hews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
'wo Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Kempt.— Pencil and Palette:

Chapter on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Knight.— The Patient's Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.:
Cloth, Is. 6(1.

Lamb (Charles):
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose

and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

The Essays of Ella. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry fop Ch'ildpcn, and Pplnce
Domus. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:
commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
th Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr.Svo, cloth extra. 63.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cl both extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:
The story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes .

Life In London ; or. The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, inCoiours, after
the Originals. Crown £vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. \

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by :
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves : Essays oa Women.



Linton (E. Lynn), continued —
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Patricia Kemble.

The Atonement of Leam Dunham

The World Well Lost.

Under which Lord ?

With a Silken Thread.

The Rebel of the Family.

My Love!" | lone.

Locks and Keys. — On the Development
and Distribution of Primitive
ve Locks a .- Keys. By Lieut-gen.
Pitt-Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
uses. Demy4to, half Roxburgh, 16s.

Longfellow :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,
Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, 23. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 61.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleece: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown Svo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff,
Demy Svo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:
A History of Soup Own Times, from

the Accession of Queen Victoria to

the General Election of 1880. Four

Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.

each. — Also a Popular Edition, in

Four Vols. cr. Svo, cl. extra, 63. each.
A Short History of Our Own Times.

One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.
History of the Four Georges. Four

Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 128.

each. [Vol. I, fww ready.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dear Lady Dl«daln.
Tht Wardle Neighbours.

McCarthy (Justin), continued —

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon. I IVIiss Misanthrope.

Linley Rochford. 1 Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Caelia: A Girl with a Fortune,
New and Cheaper Edition, Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

"The Right Honourable:' A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., ind Mrs.
Campbell - Prayed. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),
Works by:
An Outlines the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day, Cr, Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 61.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6S. [/» the press.

England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 63.

Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown
Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Our Sensation Novel. Edited by
Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.
Small Svo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

illustrations James Allen. Small

crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.
Guttapercha Willie, the Working

Genius. With 9 Illustrations by

Arthur Hughes. Square Svo, cloth

extra, 33. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis.

Thomas Wlngfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor, Poet Svo,
cloth limp, 28. 60.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Macllse Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs— Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrative
oi the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 8s Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6cL.

Mackay.— Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid,

Through Brittany. With numerous?
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Chart a. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown Svo,
doth extra, 6s,

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post novo, illustrated boards, 23 each.
Open ! Sesame !
Written In Fire

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73, 6d. — Cheap Edition,
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excurs!on,and other Sketches.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
—Cheap Edition, post Svo.illustrated
boards, 2s.

The stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

X7

Mark Twaik'b Works, continued—
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations bv
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 73. 6d.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedy Humaine" and

its Author. With Translations by

H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.
The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval.
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J Gordon Thomson.

Mayfair Library, continued-^
Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from

his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia. By

W. H. Mallock.
New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.
Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmondk

ley-penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Choirs

Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.
Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca,
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Retold. By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

May hew.— London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth e extra, 33. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N, E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl., Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games aud Amusements.
By Clara Brvlew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
Mp.Dopillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Mtt.lfr. Small 8vo, cloth him p, 2s. 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by~i

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management of
the Skin; with Directions for Diet,
Vines, Soaps, Baths, &c.

The Bath In Diseases of the Skin.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation

t o Disea ses of the Skin.

Wordsworth (Mrs.).— Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d. ^

Moncrieff. — The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A Model Father*.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

First Person Singular: A Novel.
Cheap Edition, with a Frontispiece
by Arthur Hopkins. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 72. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about).

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by; Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J
Moor Smith. Post 8vo, cl. extra, 58.

Nursery Hints; A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, la. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor, — Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. By T. P. O'Connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beacon field. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress In England.

Reilly. — Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 53. each ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23. each.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Cast I e-

maine's Gage,
italia.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farina.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbl.

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess NappftX*
Fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, continued.
Othman: A Novel. Second Edition,
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown svo, cloth extra, 63.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Ig. 6d.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each,
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed its Wife.

Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
i illustrated boards, 28. ^

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each

yost Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. i High Spirits.

Under One Roof. | Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exist

Kit: A Memory.

The Canon's Ward.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentlnck'sTutor.lMurphy's Master.
Fallen Fortunes.

Pain (James), continued—

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward

In Peril and Privation: Stories 0!
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Crown 8vo, cloth extra.
33. 6d. [

Pears. — The Present Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A . , F.S.S. Demy Svo, la.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise .

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:
Trooping with Crows. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. [Preparing.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. cl

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Blanche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Worlds, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget. and
other Stories. Post 8vo, illust.bds.,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 23.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M. P. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6cl. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s. [Preparing.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Writers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d.

Pyrotechnist'sTreasury(The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy
By J. Rambosson, Laureate o
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
ex executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by :

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,38.6d.
each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A,

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It Is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils
illustrated by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes,

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, Aera.

A Simpleton Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good Stories of Men and other*
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Reader's Handbook (The) of
Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. svo, 1,400 pages, Cloth extra, 7s. §4.



Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 68.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.

Simmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each,

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poets' Natural History. [Preparing.

Robinson Crusoe : A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
3^ Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates bv
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s,

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profuse ly Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Bal.Tialgn's Sweetheart.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; pos
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Round the Galley-Fire.

On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarn s arid Sea Descry nations.

In the Middle Watch. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63. ^

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 28.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (168S to 1847). Edited
byHENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3,?. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by : Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3a. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mills.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
53. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (1885), at 5s. each.
Ca ses for Binding, Is. 6d. each.

Scott's (Sir Walter) Marmion.

A New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Small 4to, cloth extra, 168,

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.
The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
illustrations,

^'^ BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

•• Secret Out " Series, continued-^

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belle w.
j;jf : With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belles Many lusts.

Magician's Own Book; Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Credere
200 Illustrations.

Senior.— By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric

Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare:
The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6(1.
Thetlansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
shakespeare for Children: Tales
'from Shakespeare. By Charles
- and Mary Lamb. With numerous
-JlrJllustrations, coloured and plain, by
,-r, J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.
'">The Dramatic Works of Shakes
- i epeare : The Text of the First
J., .Edition, carefully reprinted. Eight
• "';,Vols., demy 8vo, cloth boards, dos.
"the Handbook of Shakespeare
- Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.
A Study of Shakespeare. By ,:
nos. Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 88,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers,
&c. : Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan:—

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With 9
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full,
page Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d. ,'

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full page lusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A,
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 183.

Signboards : Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By

iAcoB Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 lusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Sketches.— A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches, Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 68. 64.



Smith (J. Moor), Works by :

The Prince of Rolls: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 33. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch :
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., 63.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. Newand Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown Svo, l3.; cloth, l3. 6d.

Spaiding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. ByT.
Alfred Spalding, LL.B, Crown 8vo,
cloth e extra, 53.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth ex ^a, 63.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dice.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated bds., 23.

A Barren Title. Cr. Svo, l3. ; cl., ls.6d.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 63.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice

of Chess Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. Sv o, cloth extra, 63.

Seaman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Seaman, Author
of " Victorian Po sets." C r. 8vo,cl.ex., 98.

Sterndale^T he Afg h an K n ife :

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post
Svo, i illustrated boards, 2 3.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey In the
Cevennes. Frontispiece by Walter
Crane. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

An Inland Voyage. With Front, by
W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 28. 6d.

Virginius Puisque, and other
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Familiar Studies of Men and Bool<8.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian N'^hts. Crown Svo,
cl. extra, 6s. ; poet Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Stevenson (R. Louis), continued—
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 68.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover, l3. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Third

Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 28.

St. John.— A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John* Post Svo, illustrated
board s, 23. '

Stoddard.— Summer Cruising

In the South Seas. By Charles

Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 38. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 28.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 28.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by William Hone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London: A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6 d.

Swinburne (Algerian C.),

Worlds by: [Fcap. Svo, 5a.

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 78.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 93. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series,

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, 10s.6d.
Bothwell: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,123.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Grown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 68.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 123
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 6s
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. sto, la.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued.
Note on Charlotte Bronte.Cr.Svo.es.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo,6s.
Studies In Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 83.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 8s.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 12s.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small Svo, parchment, 63.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hot EN. M e d. Svo, cloth extra, 7s . ci.

Taine's H i sto ry of En g lis h

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small Svo,
cloth boards, 303.— Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by : Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
Coloured Frontispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them : A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.
%* The Plays may also be had sepa-

ra tell, at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H, J. Jennings.

i With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
S vo, cloth extra, 63.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anec-

5 dotes. Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Cressida. | Proud Malsle.

The Violin-Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous lusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, clottt
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in tl>e Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each,
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Senator

Trollope(FrancesE.), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. I Anne Furnace.



Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
i illustrated boards, 2s.

Trowbridge.— Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8v o, illustrated boards, 2s. [Prep bring.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33. 6d.; post 8vo, ill stated boards , 2s^

Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 23.

tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispi ce by P. Ma cab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Eraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bell . Illustrated by R . Macbeth.

.buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols. , demy S vo, cl. bds., 7 s. 6d. each.

Villars. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars. Fcap.
Svo , picture cover. Is.

WaTford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 1886, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. same, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
sloth, Is.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued—
The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is.
The Shilling House of Common
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.
The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Voiuu;«,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges,
5s.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown Sv o, cloth a antique, 7s. 6d^

WaJtWhTtman'sSelect Poems.

Edited and selected, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition. Crown Svo, printed on
hand-made paper and bound in buckram,
63. [/» the press.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. fd. each.

Wanderings In Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated,

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England In the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 7.% Illustrations,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued—

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman : Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. ByE. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners :
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6a.

Warrants, &c. :—
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute IVlary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 58.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 6s.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

vi^lth the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown

Svo , 18. ; cloth, Is.^.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or. History oi
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List ci
Marks, Crown Svo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler s(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin;
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,ls. [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by:
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 63.

Studies In Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown sackcloth
extra, 6s. \ Preparing.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth

limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Women of the Day : A Biographical

Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Words, Effects, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. Svo.cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 93.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque In Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by Few. Fairholt,F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
Castaway, j The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

2J

NEW Three-volume NOVELS.

SARAH Tatler's NEW
NOVEL.

Burled Diamonds. By Sarah Tatler,
Author of " Saint Mungo's City," &c.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

NEW NOVEL BY Mrs. CAMPBELL'
Prayed & JUSTIN McCARTHY.

The Right Honourable : " A Romance
of Society and Politics. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER,
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Phillstla.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortlboy.
Ivy Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY V/ ALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions Of Men
The Captains' Room
All in a Garden Fair
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. I Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS*
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS
Antonlna.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret,
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman In White,
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss on Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughtep
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET,
Port Salvation

BY JAMES DE MILLS.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears. I Circe's Lovers

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I One by One.

QueenCophetua. I A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir Battle FRERB,
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capet Girls.

looks PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | Fop Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say P
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft. I Of High Degree,
fancy Free. j Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Entice Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS,
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornioroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned,

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kemble.
Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love !" | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleece.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Watergate Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter,

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camilla.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD,
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald,
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame I | Written In Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement, j Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Vai Strange.

A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massing

herd.
Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
Carlyon's Year,
BY E

A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's

Ward. [Town.
The Talk of the
C. PRICE.

Valentine. | The Foreigners

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READS.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief,
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation,
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. f Readiana.

Singieheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt,

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling,
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers,
One Against the World.
The Lion In the Path.

ig

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Meppyweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Roche. I Heart Salvage.
The High IVIiiis. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dulce.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud IVlaisie. | Cressida.
The Vloiin Piayep.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS,
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Fpohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dapl<.
Mp. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-leagues.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPS.
Lille Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Fulness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, Sc.
Stopped from Foreign Novelist*.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT,
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON Awe.
Carrot Caption. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow P
Valence's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Weeping of the Green."
BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Gpantiey Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES Rich.
Ready-money Moptiboy.
With Happy and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little QIH.
The Case of Mp. Lucpalt.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Apboup.
The Monl<8 of Theresa.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
i"he Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Part en Fair.
Dorothy Forever.
Uncle Jacl^

boards, 23. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Helpless of Red Dog.
The Lucl< of Reaping Camp.
Californian Staples.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.
Mapuja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard.
Matt.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Supply Tim.

BY HALL Pains.
The Shadow of a Cplme.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceives Even. I Juliet's Guardian

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cape of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bap Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonlna.

Basil.

Hide and Seek.

The Dead Secret.

Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.

Cheap Popular Nove-ls, continued

Wilkie Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. Haunted Hotel.
Poor Miss Finch. The Fallen Leaves.
Miss on Mrs. P Jezebel'sDaughtep

New Magdalen. The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. Heart and Science
Law and the Lady. "I Say No."
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. 1 From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.

Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Blacksmith and Scholar.

The Village Comedy.

You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky

Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles,
Hearts of Gold.

BY Alphonse DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLS,
A Castle In Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. I Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tiilotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY Pain FRISWELL,
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Cape! Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. Queen of the Mea*

For Lack of Gold. dow.
What will the The FlOwer of tho

World Say.* Forest.

In Honour Bound. A Heart's Problem
The Dead Heart. The Braes of Yarn
Love and War. row.
For the King. The Golden Shaft.

In PasturesGreen Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and Stream.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday.
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY J. BERWICK Haywood,
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Eillce Quentln. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS,
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.
BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle. ( Number Seventeen
BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P



Cheap Popular Novels, continued
Lynn Linton, continued—
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY,
Gideon Fierce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

DearLadyDlsdaln LInley Rochford.
The Watergate MissMisanthrope

Neighbours. Donna Quixote.

My Enemy's The Comet of a

Daughter. Season.

A Fair Saxon. Maid of Athens.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD,

Paul Faber, Surgeon.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate.
BY MRS. Macdonald.

Quarter Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.

Open Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY y. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorilllon.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Vai Strange.
Hearts.
The Way of the

World.
A Bit of Human
Nature.

ALIfe'sAtonement
A Model Father*,
joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the
Sea.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whlteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly,
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-male's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Foils Farley
Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
SIgna.

Princess Napraxlno.

TwoLIttleWooden
Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbl.

In Maremma,

Wands.

Frescoes.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL,
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

ClyfFards of Ciyffe

The FamiiyScape-
grace.

Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

HumorousStories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon 8 Ward

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READS.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. | Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A Woman-hater
Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY JAMES RUNCIMAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Baimalgn's Sweetheart.
BY W. CLARK RUSSELL,
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA,
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion In the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS,
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Malsle.

The Violin Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY,
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRANCES ELEANOR TROLLOPS
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued-^
BY Jet. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
An Idle Excursion.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends

BY LADY WOOD,
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed ite Wife

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author ot

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o* Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I/S, ST. JOHN STREET Eo.
