p^

L I E> Mary

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

Ind

VI

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

V)

NOV 1 8 1987

\«T

L161— O-1096

^

DON JOHN

VOL. I.

GILBERT AND EIVINGTON, PRINTERS,

ST. JOHN'S SQUARE.

S ^tog

By jean Angelo

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1881.
[eau rights reserved']

DON JOHN

CHAPTER I.

It may be doubted whether in all London
there is, considering its width and the size of
its houses, a more gloomy street than Upper
Harley Street.

The houses in this fine street are too
deep to be lighted well within ; and so high
as to give it on a dull day very much the
effect of an exceedingly long railway cutting
between two high hills.

Some years ago, a very young woman in a
widow's cap was furtively peeping out from
an upper window in the front of one of these
houses, and as she gazed down towards
Cavendish Square and up towards Harley

VOL. I. B

/-

Place she made the above comparison in
her mind.

It was rather a dull day in the beginning
of April, but she did not find the gloom of
a London spring at all depressing, for she
was sometimes allowed to take the baby now
lying in a frilled bassinet behind her, into
Oxford Streetjwhere she could feast her eyes
on the splendid contents of the shop windows,
or she might stroll into the Soho bazaar, or
she would be taken for a drive in the park
with her charge by the baby's mother, for she
was wet-nurse to the said baby, and thus
found herself for the first time in her life a
personage of great importance, whose tastes
were to be consulted, whose dinner was by no
means to be delayed, and whose comfort and
even pleasure were considered to be of consequence.


To do her justice, she gave herself fewer
airs than most of her class, and did her best
for the baby, who was the child of a lawyer in
excellent practice.

His name, the very same as that of his son,
was Donald Johnston ; he was of Scotch
extraction, but his family had been for two
generations settled in the South.

Maria Jane Airdd, such was the name of the
nurse, had been highly recommended to her
present place ; and, in order to take it, had
left her own young infant under the charge
of her mother. But that she fretted after
him now and then, she would have been
thoroughly content ; she had not much loved
the young husband whom, to please her
mother, she had married. She was consoled
now, for he had been already dead six
months ; the main regret she still felt was
that during his long illness (he was a carpenter)
all his savings had been spent, so
that she had nothing whereon to begin life
again, and had even become familiar before
the birth of her child with both want and
calc.

She was a sweet-tempered young creature,
had never done any particular good in the
B 2

world ; but then what opportunity had she
found ? for the same reason possibly she had
never done any particular harm.

She had one habit which Mrs. Johnston,
the baby's mother, did not like ; she was
constantly reading books from a circulating
library. Some of these were dirty, and smelt
of tobacco ; Mrs. Johnston had remarked
more than once that she did not approve of
books of that kind in the same room with
the baby.

He was her only son, and a very precious

infant ; everything that love and money could

'^o was to be lavished on him. His three

little sisters were in the country under the

.charge of an old servant, and just as Mrs.

.Airdd withdrew her head and cautiously shut

down the window, a boy with a telegram in

his hand came up the street, containing a very

important message concerning them. They

were expected home that very afternoon, and

their father was gone to fetch them.

Mrs. Airdd, as she turned, looked about the

wide chamber, with that kind of exultation
which comes of a fresh and advantageous
change.

It was before the date when the browns we
use on our wall papers began to be reverently
studied from Thames mud, and the greensand
yellows from mouldy cheese. No one
as yet toned down tender dirty drab within
to match the formless smoky drab without,
no one adored rhubarb tints, or admired the
colour resulting from mixtures of cocoa and
milk.

The walls here were all one flush of comely
cabbage roses making the most of themselves
in quantities enough if they could have been
gathered to fill several clothes' baskets. They
sprawled quite innocent of artistic propriety
over a paper satin-soft, and glossy, and in
hue of a delicate dove-colour. There was
gilding about certain picture-frames, and pink
flemings and embroidered muslin draped the
dressing-table. The baby, as a little god of
love, was half smothered in lace shillings, his

little quilt was edged with swan's-down, and
all his surroundings were enriched with fine
needlework. All was gay and fresh and
clean.

Mrs. Airdd, hearing a step on the stairs,
thrust away her novel, took up a piece of
needlework, and at the same moment Mrs.
Johnston came in, looking very much flushed
and agitated.

The nurse set a chair for her, but she was
too restless to sit down. She had a telegram
in her hand.

''> This has just come from Mr. Johnston,"
she said, 'rit is about the little girls, nurse."

*' Indeed, ma'am."

*' Mr. Johnston telegraphed from Reading
Station."

*' Indeed, ma'am," repeated the nurse, '' I
hope there's nothing wrong ? "

'' I don't know, I hope not ; but he says
my eldest little girl has a slight rash on her
neck."

!dear, ma'am !" exclaimed the nurse,

** don't flurry yourself so ; consider how ill
you have been. I dare say it's nothing ;
might I see the message ? "

With a trembling hand Mrs. Johnston
held out the telegram. It ran thus : —

Have only just observed that Irene has a
slight rash on her neck ; seems unwell, and is
cross. Send baby into lodgings before we
arrive. I hope nothing of consequence. If
doctor says so, can have him back tomorrow."


Upwards of twenty words ; how these
gentle-folks throw away their money ! This
was the nurse's first thought ; after it
crowded in others that nearly took her breath
away.

** I understand, I am told, Mrs. Airdd, that
your mother lives at Dartford, and has the
care of your baby."

'^ Yes, ma'am ; it is a very nice clean
place."

*' Oh, I have of course no thought of
sending you there for only one night."

Mrs. Airdd showed no disappointment in
her face ; she only said, — ■

*^ This handsome street and these squares
about here never have any card up to show
they let lodgings."

'^ Oh, no, no; and there is so little time ;
what can I do ? "

'' There's Kew; is that far off, ma'am ? "

** Kew, yes, of course it is ; but why ? "

^ I have a friend there, close to Kew Green,
a very respectable woman that comes from
the same place in Oxfordshire that my
poor husband did, and she told me this very
morning that an artist gentleman had just
left her, and she wished she could hear of
another let''

*'I hope it would be only for a night,"
mused the mother.

*^ She is the cleanest woman that ever
was," urged the nurse, *' and I am sure she
would not charge much."

** It would be sure to be for two nights,"
thought Mrs. Airdd. ^ ^ I can telegraph as well

as other people, and I might get a sight of my
blessed baby''

*^ Ma'am, I would not deceive you for the
world," she cried, the clear colour at a
thought of this possibility flushing up allover
her face and throat.

^^ You mean that this person is really clean
and respectable ? "

^^ Yes, ma'am."

'^ And no other lodgers taken ? "

Oh no, ma'am, the house is too small for
that."

'rit is a healthy place ? "

'* Oh yes, close to the gardens."

And in half an Your they will be here ;
ring the bell, Mrs. Airdd."

The baby is ready dressed to go out,"
proceeded the nurse as she rose.

'rand the carriage," sighed the mother,
"is already at the door."

It had been ordered in fact to take Mrs.
Johnston out.

If I trust you for this one night," she

pleaded, '^ you will not leave my dear baby
for a moment ? "

'*No, ma'am, it cuts me to the heart to
see you so trembling. I would not, I assure
you, as I am a Christian, But I'll be bound
there's very little the matter with little miss;
perhaps it's scarlatina she's got coming on,
and all children must have that ; the baby
could not have it at a better time."

The sight of Mrs. Johnston's nervous
anxiety and changing colour wrung these
words from the nurse almost in spite of herself,
and though she longed to go ; but the
bell was soon answered by a housemaid who
was told to help Mrs. Airdd at once in
packing the baby's clothes.

Mrs. Airdd observed with excitement and
joy that though the baby was to come back
tomorrow, enough clothes were put up to
last him at least a week. She herself was
told to take a box of clothes with her, and
in a very few minutes all was ready.

** I shall hope to drive over for you tomorrow,"

said Mrs. Johnston, and in the
meanwhile she gave her twelve postage cards
and three pounds, in case she should not
be able to come, charged her not to return
without further orders, and took leave of her
baby, with floods of passionate tears.

In the comfortable closed carriage the
nurse was driven through the streets in a
state of exultation scarcely to be described ;
here at least was absolute freedom for twenty-four
hours, and if it proved that there really
was any danger of infection, she might be left
there some days, and manage to send her
mother money to Dartford to buy a third-class
ticket with, so that she might be
willing to bring over the baby.

This would be a costly pleasure certainly,
but her circumstances as she understood
them were so comfortable that she could
afford it well.

That very afternoon, having taken a
friendly leave of the coachman and footman,
and established herself in all state in the

clean tidy lodgings which were everything
she had described, Mrs. Airdd wrote to
her mother to relate these circumstances,
dwelt on her longing to see her child, and
expressed a naive, and perhaps not unnatural,
hope that the rash might turn out to be
scarlatina, in which case she was likely, as
she thought, to have her time to herself for
at least a week, and she should take it
hard if her mother did not spare a day to
bring the baby.

The next day passed and no notice was
taken of Mrs. Airdd ; Mrs. Johnston did not
appear, and a card was posted to her according
to her directions.

The following day Mrs. Airdd's spirits were
put into a flutter by the arrival of a telegram,
in which she was informed that the little
Miss Johnston really had got scarlatina,
that Mrs. Johnston's doctor would pay
her a visit that day at four o'clock, and that
he would give her any directions which she
might need.

Mrs. Airdd was ready to receive the doctor,
she was so fresh, clean, cosy, and cheerful,
that she looked a very ideal nurse, and the
baby only six weeks old (her own being one
fortnight older), looked already the better
for her ministrations.

The little lodgings were so neat, the
house so detached in its pretty little garden,
the air so pleasant, that altogether the
doctor was very well satisfied. 'you maybe
here a week yet," he observed, knowing
that if she was found to be doing her duty
she would be there much longer. " Of
course it is perfectly understood that you are
never to go into London."

Oh, yes, sir, and I have no such wish,
I am sure. I have not a single friend
there."

Nor are you to go into any houses
here."

Sir, I have not a single acquaintance
anywhere near."

Of course you are to have no communication

with Mr. Johnston's servants, not
even by letter''

** You have not been there, then, sir ? "

It was taking a great Liberty in the nurse
to say that.

'* Certainly I have," he answered a little
sternly; *That is another thing, doctors
understand these matters, doctors never
convey infection."

^' No, sir," answered Mrs. Airdd, as an
echo of his words, but not as conveying any
opinion of her own ; ' ^ I hope the little girl
is not very ill ? " she continued.

** Oh, no, quite an ordinary case."

The doctor then stepped out into the
road.

You are in a position of great trust,
Mrs. Airdd. Prove yourself worthy of it for
your own sake. Mr. and Mrs. Johnston
are both rich and kind. By-the-bye, I maybe
expected to drop in any day."

** Yes, sir, at what time ? "

** At any time."

^^ Then I had letter never take the baby
out of sight of the house."

^^I don't say that, I will always send a
telegram an hour or so before I come, and
if you take care never to be away more than
an hour I shall be sure to find you."

He thus effectually prevented her from
doing more than take the baby for a walk,
but she by her absolutely contented face
when he spoke, prevented his thinking it
needful to come ! She evidently did not
mind the restraint at all, and he left her
without having the remotest intention of
going near her any more. The baby was
thriving, the nurse was well, the lodgings
were all that he could wish, the young
woman had no friend, and believed herself
liable to frequent supervision.

But why was the nurse so well contented
to stay at home ? Because she had got an
answer to her letter from her mother, and it
set forth, to her great joy and surprise, that
this frugal and respectable woman, having

made up her mind to leave her lodgings at
Dartford, where she got as "Maria well
knew such a poor living out of the washing,"
was coming up with the bay to her old
quarters at the back of Kensington Square,
and tomorrow might be expected to drop
in to an early dinner, and, if it was not an
ill conveniency, could enjoy a pork chop or
two and a green gooseberry pudding.

Mrs. Airdd could hardly believe her good
fortune. She saw at once a reason, though
not the reason, for this sudden resolution.
She was herself to have every comfort; if
more pork chops were eaten than could have
been expected, no questions would be asked
provided the baby was well and flourishing.
Her mother intended, of course, to come and
share in some of the good things. The
friend in the lodgings would never tell that
she might now and then have cooked for
two instead of for one. Moreover the mother
had hinted already that she might as well
constitute herself the baby's washerwoman

as allow any other woman to have that post.
Mrs. Airdd was rather late the next morning,
and was about to dress the baby, who,
having only just been washed, was sprawling
on her knee, a little red, limp, crying creature,
when, to her delight, her mother with
her owen baby came in.

^^ Oh, mother, mother, take this one's
she cried, *' and give me mine ! "

The exchange was instantly effected, and
Mrs Airdd began to devour her own baby
with kisses. Her mother laid the little
Johnston down on the bed, and let him
comfort himself as well as he could with his
own tiny fist, while she carefully took off
and folded her own best shawl, and put on
an apron.

'' A nice little fellow," she then said,
looking at him critically. ''A fine boy I
call him, for he's as as big as yours already,
and a fortnight younger. A nice fresh skin,"
she continued, taking him up and turning
him over on her competent motherly aim,

VOL. I. c

** not a spot nor — nor — nor, a mark about
him. Yes, he's as near as may be the same
weight as yours."

The young mother, absorbed in her child,
took no notice of these remarks, but tenderly
cuddling her own baby against her neck,
said sighing, —

*sand to think he's weaned! Oh, how
much more interesting he does look than
that other woman's child."

**La ! " cried her mother, '^ how can you
say so, Maria ! I call that real, real foolish.
Interesting indeed, one's just as interesting as
as the other, same size, same blue eyes, and
what little down there is on their heads, just
the same colour."

swell, mother, you were all for my
having a nurse-child, so you're bound to
make out it's for the best."

'* And I hope it'll prove for the best, my
my girl," said the mother, with a slow,
quiet impressiveness. ^' Well, if this child
ain't gone off to sleep ! I'll just wrap him

in — in the. nursing apron and put him in his
cot. I've brought you a bundle, Maria,"
she continued, cautiously lifting the child.
^' A bundle with your two old print gowns
in it, no need for you to go tramping up
and — and down these dull roads in your good
new clothes. Did you manage to — to get those
library books returned ? I should be loath
for you to get into trouble, through their
being sent for to the house, such a lot as
you had too by what you wrote."

'' Yes, mother, I got them back ; I had to
send them from here by the carrier, and send
the nine pence too in stamps for the reading
of them."

*' See how you waste your money," answered
her mother, cautiously laying the baby
in his cot, *^ read, read, for ever read; that's
what came of — of my settling at Kensington,
and your going to S'Mary Abbots' schools.
What a man the old vicar is, to be sure ! If
all the S'Mary Abbots' scholars can't read
the — the smallest print and — and write the
c 2

longest words as soon as look at them, it's not
for want of his forgetting after them. Little
he cares, I'll be bound, what your mother had
to pay in that very High Street for novels for
you to read by candle-light in bed (all along
of his being so keen after the learning). Ita
wonder you did not burn the house
down ! "

^' Mother," said Mrs. Airdd, '* I don't want
Mrs. Johnston to know I was brought up at
Kensington ; she's not aware but what we've
lived at Dartford all our lives, instead of
only while poor Lanceyy was with us."

** Of course not," answered her mother,
with gentle deliberation, which derived
emphasis from a very slight impediment in
her speech. ^* And she never need. Ma —
Maria."

She showed this imperfection of speech
very little unless she was excited or agitated,
and this is the exact contrary of what
happens in most cases.

< ' She hates the notion of my so much as

looking at poor people, as if the very air of
them could foul her child," said the daughter.

^^Most of 'em do."

'* And as to your coming all the way from
Dartford through me wanting to set my eyes
on my own just for an hour, she'd never
believe it."

'^ Just like 'em again, hut most of us is even
tooth 'em, Ma — Maria, And it does see — seem
a good deal to act out for — for an hour or
two, it does in — deed, Maria."

'^ Well., mother, it does; but you see I sent
the money."

"Ay," continued the mother, Mrs. Pearson
by name, with her gentle, slow hesitation,
'* and don't you go hiring your publishing
no — novels here. It might be found out.
And — and — and I've — I've lit on two or three
first — first-rate ones, that I brought with me,
shilling ones, I got half — half price — Ma-maria."


'why should mother be so put out
about the novels ?" thought Mrs. Airdd ; '' I've

not heard her talk so badly I don't know
when."

** "What are you doing, mother ? "
*swell, I'm not fond of washing frocks
constant ! you're crumpling the child's robe,
and he — he — poor little fellow ! has — has
but one. I'll lay it by till we — we — go
home. And how's Mrs. Leach, Ma —
Maria?" (Mrs. Leach was the landlady.)

*' She's well, and full of joy ; got work
for nine days to come, morning till night,
charing. I'm to have my dinner cooked at the
bake-house, and I shall oblige her by making
my bed, and that."

Master Lancelot Airdd, having been divested
of his best frock, Vv^as now laid in his mother's
bed, with his bottle, over which he also fell
asleep. Mrs. Airdd let her mother know that
now she could do as she liked, she dined at
twelve, and then she could enjoy her tea at
four o'clock, and eat a good supper by half-past
eight.

'^ I wonder how you'll do when you've

weaned this child ? '' observed the mother, her
capricious impediment quite gone; you'll
find a difference then, my girl."

' Don't talk of that, mother ; I hope that
won't be for six months at least."

^' It'll be no trouble," replied the mother,
'^ be it sooner or later — sooner or later. Ma —
Maria. For by what you told me, he has
been used to have the bottle once a day from
his birth. I had no trouble with — with yours
my — my — my girl. And — and if their
being as like as — as two peas is any — any
rule, you'll have none with — with him."

'^ There she goes again," thought Mrs.
Airdd, quite impressed by the uncommon degree
of discomfort that her mother was suffering.

Then it all went off again, the dinner was
carried into the tiny parlour, the two babes
slept in peace, and the two women, leaving
the door open, sat down to enjoy themselves,
a pot of porter, and some new bread, and
other luxuries being set on the table.

*' Mrs. Leach doesn't so much as know I

brought your child," said Mrs. Pearson, the
young widow's mother.

*why should she, mother?" answered
Mrs. Airdd sharply, '^ she might take it into
lier head to tell Mrs. Johnston."

The mother nodded with an air of wisdom
and triumph. 'the children have all got
the scarlatina now, my girl, and one of themis
very ill."

^^ How do you know, mother ? "

** I went and inquired. Said I to the cook,
she was cleaning the steps, ' Mrs. Thompson's
love, and has heard the little Johnston are
ill, and I was to inquire. She told me all I
wanted to know. Mrs. Johnston's very unwell
herself, and the servants say she'll certainly
fret herself sick, so ill as she has just been,
and she won't leave the children a minute.
^ Well,' said I, ^ you won't forget to give Mrs.
Thompson's love to your lady;' and I left.
You've some days to yourself, my girl, yet."

'^ So I think, mother."

^^ Then — then — then do — ijo^ir hest.'^

'' Yes, mother, why not ? " answered Mrs.
Airdd carelessly, when at last her mother had
managed to utter these words. Mrs. Ah'd
now went into the little kitchen and fetched
in the pudding, she was hy no means too
proud to wait on herself when her friend and
landlady was busy.

And now that this comfortable meal was
over, Mrs. Pearson, to her daughter's great
surprise, expressed a strong wish to see Kew
Gardens. "But as you've never dressed the
baby, Maria," she continued, " along of his
being asleep, you have no call to come too,
you can see them any day. There he is
awake, I hear him stirring, and yours '11 wake
too directly." She stepped out into the road,
and before her daughter had recovered from
the surprise of feeling that there was something
unusual about her mother, she was
gone. " I'll — I'll — I'll be in by tea-time, my
my girl," she said; " undo the bundle and
put in any — anything you have for the wash,
and I'll take it with me."

Chapter II.

Mrs. Pearson had no sooner departed than
the Johnston baby began to cry lustily.
His nurse took him up, and while she sat on
the side of the bed, satisfying his little wants,
she gazed at her own child with tender love.

Two or three tears rolled down her comely
cheeks, while the alien baby made himself
at home at her breast, and half choked his
greedy little self, over the nourishment she
had sold away from her own.

As she held her nurseling with one hand,
she drew towards her the bundle her mother
had brought, with the other, untied the knots,
shook out her two gowns, and three shabby
little volumes fell away from them on to the
bed. She lifted one, and a sudden touch of
self consciousness made her feel how odd it

was that her mother should have accidentally
lighted on such a story ; but she put it aside
without another thought, for she had read it
before, and it was not interesting. Then she
took up the next, and when she saw that it
was on the same subject — a very common and
favourite subject with writers of fiction — she
no longer thought there was any accident in
the matter. Her mother, she perceived, had
brought these books to her on purpose to
suggest what she did not dare to say. She
took up the third book — one very dirty volume
from an old-fashioned story called '^ The
Changeling."

She turned very pale; her first thought
was one of almost unreasonable anger against
her mother. If she had been minded to do
this thing, as she now perceived, she could
not have done it without an accomplice, without
doubling therefore the slender chance
of escape from detection. She felt that a
longing that such a thing could have been
done had already existed deep down in her

heart. She accused her mother as alone
having given it form and possibility. The
little nursing, now fed to the full, was awake
and quiet in her arms ; but temptation was
too new to be acted on. She put on his fine
and ample clothes all but his robe, and
laying him down beside the other babe,
began to recall the things her mother had
said. They had the same coloured eyes,
the same coloured down on their heads,
they were about the same size; but as to
bringing the remote romances of a by gone
age into families that lived in Harley Street
and sent a baby with his nurse to Kew
—now, at this very present time— it was a
thing too arduous for thought, too wicked
for every-day life. An Irish castle — tumbledown,
haunted by ghosts, and full of retainers
— had been the scene of one of these
stories. A fugitive family hundreds of years
ago had stolen away the heir of the house,
in another; and had left their child in its
stead.

In the third, children were also changed at
nurse — but there was a gipsy in the case,
and there were awful midnight incantations,
and the nurse was conjured into the crypt of
a ruined chapel, far among the Scotch mountains
; and there the baby was charmed away
from her, and an elf-child left in her arms.

She mocked at her mother, and was sore
against her in her heart. She was holding
up the broidered robe of her nurseling ; did
it look like anything that her child could
wear upon his pretty low-born limbs without
detection ? Yes ! There was nothing to
choose. He was the finer child of the two ;
at least if there was anything to choose
between them.

It was time he had his bottle. She would
warm its contents for him. She did so, and
her tears fell fast, as she leaned over the
little kitchen fire.

When he had finished this meal — each
child being full dressed, excepting that it
had its frock off — she thought she should

like to see how her child would look in the
beautiful robe. She put it on ; and to her
fond eyes he seemed to become it far better
than the other did. To change them ! Oh,
that such a thing could be ! But she was
not unreasonable; she knew as well as
possible that it could not ; but, for the
moment — only for the moment — her child
should look like the gentleman's son.
Nature was not unfair at the first ; the
carpenter's baby as he had come from her
hand was as fair, as refined, as innocent in
aspect as he could be. It would only be
when art stepped in and educated him, that
he would be, however he might dress, all the
cockney and all the carpenter.

His mother (over the Johnston baby's
robe) put on the delicate blue cashmere
cloak, enriched with swan's-down, and the
pretty satin hood, with its lace cockade.
And sat hanging over him with a yearning
sense of envy against the other baby and a
rapture of pride in him.

She did not care whether her mother
came in or not. She would hy no means do
this thing. In fact, it could not be done
with the least chance of success — but not
the less, her mother should know she perceived
she had been tempted — not the less —
A sudden qualm at the nurse's heart. A
noise of wheels ! A dust rising up ! A
carriage! — oh misfortune, a carriage, — and
both the children in the house ; she herself,
sitting in the little bedroom, which was on
the ground floor and led out of the sitting-room,
must have been plainly seen by its one
occupant — a lady ; and this lady was now
descending. It was Mr. Johnston's mother.
Something must be done, and done instantly.
But nothing could ever make things come
right if it were discovered that two babies
were in the house and one of them her own.
She had but one instant to decide ! the lady
was coming up the tiny garden. The little
Johnston was lying contentedly on the
bed — no time to dress him, no time to undress

the other. She kept her own baby on
her arm, and m sheer desperation opened
the bedroom door, and shutting it behind
her, came to meet her guest with a curtsey
and a welcome. Something sadly like a
prayer was on her trembling lips — her
situation was terrible — and for the first few
moments while the supposed grandmother —
a fine capable woman little more than fifty,
who had just come up from Scotland — lifted
the baby's lace veil, kissed him, chirped to
him, and asked how he was, she trembled so
as to attract attention — he was lying flat on
his mother's arms staring at the nodding
feathers in the visitor's bonnet.

'* You look very pale, nurse! " exclaimed
the grandmother.

** Oh, ma'am," answered Mrs. Airdd, the
ready lie rising to her lips. ^^ I was afraid
you might be come to say the children were
worse."

*^ The children are worse, I am sorry to
say," was the answer. ^^I have not seen

them, of course, that would not be prudent
but Mr. Johnston writes me word that
Miss Irene causes them a good deal of
anxiety.

*you may put your bonnet on, nurse.
The darling is dressed — you shall take him
out with me for a little airing in the
carriage."

What ! and leave the other baby all
alone on the bed ? Mrs. Airdd felt as if her
heart stood still.

*soh, ma'am," she exclaimed, lying again,
*^I am so sorry, but the person of the
house is gone out for an hour or so, just todo
a little shopping, and I promised to see
to the house while she was away — and she
has locked the back-door and given me the
key."

*' Oh, well, another time, then," said the
lady slowly, and as if Mrs. Airdd's manner
surprised her.

'' You are quite well ? " she inquired.

'' Oh, yes, as well as can be, ma'am," and

VOL. T. D

all her soul was in her ears. What if the
Johnston bay should cry !

*' Pretty little man," said the grandmother,
again caressing the bay, but not
taking him from the nurse; *^ I hope he is
thriving." She had not seen her grandson
before.

'* Oh, ma'am, he is as good-tempered and
as contented as he can be." The nurse had
now recovered her colour, every moment that
the other baby remained quiet was a great
gain, she was beginning to pluck up courage,
and was trying to look cheerful.

*swell, well," said the lady, smiling
kindly, ^' I confess I do not see much virtue
in a baby's contentment, when he has as
good cause for it as I hear you give this one."

*' Thank you, ma'am, I am sure I try to
give satisfaction."

''I am very well satisfied," answered the
grandmother graciously, " I shall write to
my daughter that I am."

A few more commonplaces, a few more

adverse chances to be over lived, a few more
fluttering of the heart on the part of the
nurse, and then her visitor got up and took
her leave and went back to the carriage,
followed by the nurse with her own child in
her arms. It seemed to her that she had
never listened and never looked before.

That baby on the bed, how her ears were
open to him ! That velvet mantle she was
following, how she noted every fold and
every '' frog " upon it !

But now her curtsey was made and the
carriage was gone.

She ran back into the house, laid her child
on the bed, and burst into tears ; for the
first time in her life she knew what bitterness
there is in the fear of detection. '' The
wages of sin are hard. ' ' Her ruin as regarded
this situation and the character she hoped to
have from it would have been irretrievable
if anything had been found out.

Even if she had meant really to do the
thing, and keep to it, such an inter
2

view would have been more than she could
have borne. What if Mrs. Leach had walked
in and it had come out that she had not left
the house at all ! What if the other baby had
begun to cry ! And yet how sweet that one
of her own had looked when the strange
visitor had nodded and chirped to him, and
he had twisted his tiny mouth into the
promise of a smile !

It was not worth while to go through so
much.

No, that was not exactly it. She loved
herself as well as her baby. She had
not expected to be so frightened. The least
questioning would have betrayed all. She
never could so much as act such a thing again,
and she pulled down the broidered robe, even
tearing it in her hurry, and threw it aside
from her own child. Then she took up her
nurseling, dressed him in all his bravery,
and waited her mother's arrival with an
easier heart. She had not known herself
before. She was aware now what shame

and dread had come of the mere prophecy of
a crime in her heart.

What, then, would experience be ! Well,
it might be a pity, perhaps it was ; but she
was not one of those who could stand such
a thing. It was not her conscience that was
awake, but her reason ; even if she could do
such a thing successfully, she should suffer
constant fear of detection ; she would not do it.

Master Johnston had enjoyed his supper,
and was in his cot, and Master Airdd had enjoyed
his bottle before Mrs. Pearson came in.

She entered slowly, and as if she would
not startle her daughter. Mrs. Airdd had one
of the babies on her knee. Mrs. Pearson
never cast her eyes on him.

''La, Maria, my girl," were her first words;
'' such queer things as I have seen! "

*' No, have you, mother ? " answered Mrs.
Airdd, with a keen consciousness that her
mother cared about the said things nothing
in the world.

''If some of those cactus things wasn't

just like an — an old man's head all over
white hairs, my name's not Fanny Pearson,"
said the mother, without any signs of hesitation.'
^' There was a — a glass-house full of
such. The last time I saw them was the
first bank holiday Parliament made. The
shops all shut up, and yet the Punches going,
and barrows of fruit cried all about the
streets, it was just like — like a wicked Sunday,
that had got sorted wrong and come in
the middle of the — the week."

Her daughter, with a baby on her knee,
remained silent.

^^ And so tea's ready, Maria, my girl, and
very acceptable, I say." She glanced at
her daughter, and noticed the signs of tears
upon her face. '' I'm always glad of — of
my tea," she continued; *show quiet the
dear children are ! " she added, as she drew
her chair to the table.

*sone of them has been crying pretty
hard," replied the daughter, without specifying
which.

She had a Httle white pinafore in her
hand, and seemed to be giving her attention
to the sleeve which she was folding
back nth a button.

Her mother glanced keenly at her, but
did not dare to look at the face of the child
she had on her knee.

Tea was now poured out. Mrs. Pearson
had begun to feel the silence rather awkward,
when at last her daughter said, 'those
three novels you brought me, mother, I wonder
you should have thought I hadn't read
them, they're old things every one of them."

'swell," answered the mother, with
obliging suavity, '' if you don't mean to read
them again, I'll take them back. Ma — ■
Maria."

''No, I don't," said Mrs. Airdd. She
knew she was making her mother uncomfortable,
but a certain slight perversity of
temper afflicted her just then. " I saw
you'd looked them over before you chose
them," she continued.

Her mother reddened, she was not at all
sure that the thing suggested had not been
done. '* Maria's so deep," she reflected,
** that she's quite capable of playing at innocence
with me. Still ' Least said is soonest
mended,' and I wish she would hold her
tongue."

*i'll take them back," she managed to
say, with many breaks and repetitions through
the return of her impediment, and she rose
and tied them up in a blue handkerchief,
and returned almost meekly to the tea-table,
she was quite at her daughter's mercy now ;
she could not articulate tolerably. The
least little smile hovered about Mrs. Airdd's
lips, such a subtle small smile as justified at
once her mother's assertion that she was
«*deep."

** I should burn them, mother, if I was
you," she observed calmly, ^' not that they
signify*'

Her mother answered nothing.

** I've read dozens such — dozens," continued

the daughter. " I've not forgot one
of them. They're enough to dishearten the
willingness sinner that ever breathed."

*^ I don't know what you mean, Maria,"
the mother burst out, anger overcoming her
hesitation. She hardly knew whether she
was most angry with her daughter for
^^ giving words " to the matter at all when
perfect silence would have been most prudent,
or for thus leaving her in some doubt what
she had done or meant to do, or for (as it
really seemed) not being perfectly certain
whether she dared trust her own mother.

Don't know what I mean, mother ?" rejoined
the daughter, that small smile hovering
over her upper lip; '' well, I call them
disheartening because after they've (whoever
they may be), after they've done it so beautiful,
you know, they're always found out."
The mother looked very red and irate.
** No," she continued, appearing to cogitate,
'* I don't remember one but what's found out,
nor one but what's brought to shame for it."

And what was the effect of this speech
on the mother ? She caught the subtle
smile as it went and came, it never rose
higher than the lip) or warmed the eye,
and she was in doubt. Something had put
Maria out she thought; perhaps though
she meant to do the thing that had been
hinted at, the peril of it mixed as wormwood
with the sweetness of her hope.

'' They're always found out," repeated the
daughter.

The mother recovered speech. ^* No,
tlieifre not'' she replied angrily, '* J how
letter than that''

The significance of her manner was inexpressible.
Mrs. Airdd gave a great start, and
with frightened eyes gazed at the woman
who had claimed for herself such awful
experience. But having said so much, the
mother either could not or would not say
more. She poured out some tea, cut her
daughter more bread and butter, and still
not looking at the baby, scarcely looking in

his direction, left her words to work their
due effect.

What she had to do was finished. She
had made a certain suggestion, and her
daughter surely was aware that she might
count on her help to carry it out.

There was silence ; then Mrs. Leach, the
landlady, came in. She had a promise of
several days' charing, wanted for many days
to be away till eight o'clock at night, was
very anxious to propitiate. Did Mrs. Airdd
think she should mind answering the door
herself if anybody came to see the baby ?
Mrs. Airdd was sure she should not, and also
was quite willing to have a baked dinner for
the next few days.

Mrs. Leach had not seen the second baby
who had made his appearance on the scene,
neither the mother nor the daughter cared to
mention him. He was lying on his mother's
bed with his bottle. The little Johnston,
taking it into his head to be very fractious,
Mrs. Airdd carried him into the bedroom,

and there, shutting herself in, comforted him
and contemplated her heir. The mother and
Mrs. Leach meanwhile (tea being over) proceeded
into the back of the house together,
to inspect a new copper, and were a long
while away, so that Mrs. Airdd had plenty
of time for thought.

It was nearly three quarters of an hour
before Mrs. Pearson returned and saw her
daughter sitting by the window with a baby
on her lap. He was dressed in the robe
that had been folded up so carefully in
the morning, had on the neat little grey
cloak and hood familiar to Mrs. Pearson's
eyes, he had also a fine handkerchief
trimmed with imitation lace lightly laid over
his face. A bundle of clothes to be washed
was lying beside her. The nurse explained
that the omnibus her mother had wished to go
back by was very nearly due, and that she had
dressed the baby ready. The grandmother
did not look either at her or at the child
with anything but a hasty glance.

She took the child upon her arm and advanced
to the open door, but the omnibus
was not yet visible. She could not stand
waiting, she felt too much excited, and she
proposed, as well as her impediment permitted,
to go on and let it overtake her. She was
just stepping out when, as if by an irresistible
impulse, the daughter exclaimed, "Oh, I must
have another kiss of him." She flung back
the handkerchief, and, behold, it was the
same baby that had been brought, it was the
carpenter's child ! the grandmother could not
doubt it, and anger reddened her face and
filled her soul.

Then Maria had not done it after all — after
the trouble she had taken to come and live
at Kensington — after the day's work she
had given up in order to bring the child to
Kew. She was so wrath that she would have
liked to box Maria's ears. So irate in fact
when Maria burst into a little chuckling
laugh that she trembled all over till she was
fain to step inside again and sit down, setting

her bundle beside her on the floor. Mrs.
Airdd, after that small laugh, darted into the
bedroom and appeared with the other baby in
her arms and an air of simple innocence. The
omnibus went by and neither of them noticed
it till too late. The mother was trying hard
to calm herself, and the irate hue of her face
was fading ; the daughter had the subtle smile
about her lips when their eyes met, but it
gave way to a gleam of surprise when her
mother spoke as pleasantly as if nothing had
happened.

'* I wish you could have managed to take
him off niy hands for two days while I look
about me, Ma — Maria, he is a great handful."

i i Why, mother, it would be found out, you
know it would."

^^Mrs. Leach don't know he's here; you
couldn't help your own crying now and then
in the night, but there's no ne — need they
should ever bo — both cry together, for the
other you can always stop. They'd only-only
seem to be one."

^' So I could, mother ; how I should love
to have him till you hiring the clothes hack!"

*the doctor is to send a telegram if ever

he comes. There's a girl in the cottage

A round by the green that would take him out

at what's calling time for ladies, Mama —

ria."

^^ To be sure," answered the daughter ;
*' they never lunch till nearly two, they cannot
possibly get here till three at earliest ; I
might send the blessed babe out at that time
of day. The girl need never see my nurse-child.
Well, mother—"

Well, you'll take him off — off — my hands
then, till the clothes are — are — are ready."

Mrs. Airdd took him, that is, she got her
mother to lay him in the cot, for her own
arms were full, and she agreed with her
mother to send on the girl who had been
mentioned to speak to her. The temptation,
as she herself looked upon it, was over, she
had not yielded. She now thought she could
enjoy the sweet for that little time without

the bitter. She could have her own baby to
sleep in her arms for those two nights, and
send him away during the afternoon, so that
she could no more suffer as she had done
during the grandmother's visit. She was
glad at heart. It was only safety she wanted.
Not to do the right, but to be safe in doing
wrong. So the baby was left, and Mrs.
Pearson departed with a light step and considerable
confidence in her mind as to what
would be the end of it. There never was
such a chance, as she told herself as she went
home — babies altered from week to week,
who could challenge them ? The mother who
could at this moment tell her child out of a
hundred was sure not to come near him for
fear of infection ; and though she might in
her jealous love and care send a friend
almost every day to look that he was happy,
clean, and cared for, the visit would be of no
use as regarded the child's real danger, the
only danger that threatened him.

Mrs. Johnston did indeed send almost

every day, and was consoled by letters from
various friends who came at her desire. They
always found a charming, fresh, healthy
young nurse, a clean room and a fat baby.
They never found any one with the nurse.
She seemed glad to see them, and always
expressed much sympathy with Mrs. John-stone.


VOL. I.

CHAPTER III.

At about ten o'clock on the morning of the
appointed day, Mrs. Pearson entered the
cottage at Kew with the baby Johnston's
clean clothes.

Mrs. Airdd looked tired and flushed.
*' Such a night as I have had, mother, you
wouldn't believe ! " she exclaimed; ^' as fast
as one was quiet the other set off crying,
and it's been nothing but cry, cry, one or the
other, all the time I've been washing and
dressing them. They're both just fed, and
I hope they'll take a spell of sleep now, for
I'm about tired out."

The clothes from the wash were then
spread on the table, and Maria proceeded to
pay her mother for doing them.

*sand now, mother, sit down," she proceeded.

*' You are the washerwoman, you
see, sit down, but in case anybody should
come in, leave the money and the clothes on
the table to look natural."

** Nobody will come to-day," answered the
mother, rather seriously.

*^ Why not?"

*' That — that little girl that was first taken
ill — she's dead, Maria."

*^ Mother!"

** Yes, I inquired, and — and the cook told
me ; " she gave a little gasp here, as if
making a supreme effort to overtake and
run down her words, then went on quite
easily. She said, *' They've just sent the
death to the Times, and — and you'll see it
tomorrow, ^ Irene, beloved child of Donald
Johnston, aged three years and three
months.' "

'eyes, she was their eldest child. Poor
Mrs. Johnston ! I wonder how the others
are, mother ? "

u Yevj ill by what I hear; the cook said
E 2

Mrs. Johnston was very ill too, and the
master was so knocked down by that, and
his trouble at the child's death, that it was
a pity to see him."

' He is very fond of her ; I wonder whether
she is going to have the fever."

*' Nobody will know that yet, with grownup
people it seldom shows before the fourteenth
day. But — but — but, dear me, my
girl, you do look tired out."

** I am tired. I'm sorry at my heart for
the Johnston. Mother, I've done a deal
of thinking since we parted."

'' Thinking about what. Ma— Maria ? "

** "Well, partly about you, mother, and
what you let out the other day."

** I suppose, whatever you may have thought
all your — all your life, you — you — you never
thought your mother was a fool ? "

** No, I never did ; but I have thought
there might be things — "

** Things as you'd have a right to hear
when you was older. Well, there might be.

or again there might — might — might not be,
Ma-Maria."

^' But if you go on Hke this, mother, I
shall know as clear as can be that you're
not easy in your mind about trusting me,
and don't seem to like it ; if so, I'd as lief
not hear anything."

*i've no call to be uneasy, Ma — Maria,
what I had a hand in is done constant — constant,
Maria."

^^ Mother! "

'rand if I tell it you now, it's — it's for
your good."

'eyes, mother, what else should it befor?"
but the daughter blushed, and the
mother looked anywhere rather than at her
face.

"Before I married your father, when I
was in service — nursemaid to Mrs. Plumstead
we were in Italy, and the baby died."

Yes, I've heard you say so."

'but she kept me. Ma — Maria, for there
was another expected very soon, and the

master was going so fast in con — consumption,
that she was glad enough of me to help
to nurse him."

She lifted the edge of a Paisley shawl she
had on. *' She was very free-spoken. This
very shawl, such a good one it was, she
gave it me the first par — particular talk we
had. She said she knew he (she — she always
called him he, and whispered as if she was
cautious about being overheard) — she knew
he couldn't live long, and she did so wish
for a boy. Once when — when we talked she
said, * If — if I have a girl, I shall be a nobody;
but if it's a boy, he will inherit the estate,
and I shall have a handsome allowance for —
for bringing of him up.' She said, * Fanny
Slade, my husband is very dark, as — as dark
as most Italians. It's likely his son should
be dark. Don't you think,' she said, very
soft and gentle, * Don't you think I can
manage to have a boy ? ' I knew a — a good
many of her thoughts by that time, I said.
You wouldn't be so cruel, ma'am. What !

and — and leave your own child, if it's a girl,
with these nuns and people.'

'* She laughed me to scorn at that. * Leave
my own, if it's a girl,' she said ; ' for shame
of you, to think of such a thing, but why
why — why shouldn't I have twins, Fanny
Slade ? '

She had a curious smile. Ma — Maria.
Many an hour I sat and thought on it after
I left her. A little smile like — like yours.
She was so deep that I could never make
out more of her than — than she liked to explain.
Yet she seemed so free-spoken. I
often wondered over her. She would sit and
look up in the bare sky, not a bit afraid
of it."

Why should she have been afraid of it ?"

^'Why — ^^^hy, wait till — till you see it,
everything wiped clean away betwixt you and
heaven ; seems as — as if they must see down
so awful clear — everything you're doing,
and that for — for weeks and weeks together.
When — when I came to have things on my

mind I hated that sky, and there seemed to
be nothing worth breathing, it was so clear.
All the time before you were born, I — I
often sat and thought how she would paint
her flowers, and smile when he wasn't looking
at her. He — he was very fond of her.
She had a dove coloured quilted satin gown,
and she would be dressed in it for him to
admire her, and then when he fell asleep
she would smile.

'^ She said, ^ Why shouldn't I have twins,
Fanny Slade ? ' and she looked at — at — at me
so quiet. She would be often painting, and
and she would send me out under the
olive-trees to — to gather flowers for her. I
didn't Hke it. You — you may think your
mother soft. Ma — Maria, but I often cried
over that work, I — I assure you."

'' Why, mother ? "

*they were so mortal beautiful; they
stood so thick together, white, and crimson,
and blue, in the shadow among the green
wheat, all scent and glory. I was afraid of

them, for — for — for I knew the Lord would
never have made them like that, and not
often he coming down to look at them."

All this time the daughter listened wide-eyed,
and the mother whispered, 'ewe had
been all the winter in that little island I told
you of, they call it Capri ; and now we was
journeying — we — we was journeying slowly
home. Ma — Maria. The orange-trees were
full of blossom, and what with their scent
and the sun I — I — I used to feel quite giddy.

We stopped once at a little — little village
inn, for the master was very faint ; he went
indoors, and he laid himself down on the
bed to rest a couple of hours. We sat down
on a bench under a vine. As we sat we saw
a young girl with a very young baby on — on
her arm. Down there they fix them out
straight. Mrs. Plumstead called her, and
began to whisper to her, and she sat — sat
down almost at her feet. She could speak
Italian quite well, but the master could not,
at — at all, no, nor understand it.

*^ Such a pretty young girl she was, and
by— by what Mrs. Plumstead told me, she
had no father for her babe.

*' Well, I went in to see how the master
was, and — and we dined there; after that
they sent for me, and when I came she said,
Fanny Slade, Mr. Plumstead has — has just
noticed that my diamond ring is not on my
finger, and he is sure I had it this — this
morning.' ' Sure,' said he. She looked at
me so — so calm and gentle. Said he, ' I
seem to recall the sound of some small thing
that I heard roll on the floor before dinner,'
and he thought it had rolled under the skirting.
Well, I searched, and when it was not
found, if he didn't have all the flooring up !
she encouraging him. But my thought was
that she had given it to the girl. Well, we —
we slept there, and — and — and the next day
he was better. We went on and then
stopped (because she said she was tired), in
the market-place of a little small town, and
there to — to — to my wonder, I saw that same

girl forty miles from lier home, looking out
for us. I — I looked at missis. She said,
so gentle and sweet, * Love, I wish you were
not so short-sighted,' she said, * there is
such a pretty cos — costume down there,'
that was said to him, but it was meant forme,
he — he could not see the girl. We had
a vast deal of talk that afternoon, she and I,
Then we went on and — and again, in a little
village by an inn door was the girl, she had
gone on before us, Mrs. — Mrs. Plumstead
saying what — what inn she should drive to.
We did not move any more. That — that
night Mrs. Plumstead was taken ill, and
about dawn her baby was born, and — and,
Ma — ria, it was a girl.

** As soon as the doctor was gone I knocked
at — at Mr. Plumstead's door. Well, it — it
was shocking to hear him thank God for my
lie. I told him he had twin children born,
a son and a daughter."

She gave a little gasp here in this the
crisis of her story, and as if her words could

not be commanded, went back to an easier
part of it.

'' Mrs. Plumstead had said to me, ' I mean
to have that girl for a wet nurse, and I have
told her also to — to wash her baby and bring
him to me to — to look at.' I could see in
the dawn light how — how wan Mr. Plumstead
looked ; but he gave thanks as — as well as he
could like a Christian ; and — and said he,
It's a sin — singular thing, Fanny Slade,
that Mrs. Plumstead has more than once
expressed to me a sort of pre — sentiment,
that she should have twins.'

'^ I was obliged to leave him, ill as— ashe
seemed. When I went to him again he
seemed to rally a bit, but little as I knew
then about sickness and death, I knew that
death was nigh.

*sand — and he would send me out for
flowers. There never were such people for
flowers. They were easy enough to get, the
olive-yards were choked up with them, spread-out
anemones, and tulips, and Jacob's ladder.

I pulled an armful, but I was frightened, for
for there was a sign in the sky.'^

*^ Mother ! what sign ? "

^' I had — had seen too many pictures of
angels not to know what sign. It was a
vast way off. It was an angel, you could not
make out the form of its — its body, but
his two long pointed wings just like a gauze
cloud were tilted towards the world as — as
if he was flying down. I saw the — the faint
shadow of them, it fell just where I stood''

'* You saw only the white wings ? "

*eyes, I tell you only the wings. The
sky being so clear there, you can see things,
Maria, that — that here are invisible. It was
the Angel of Death passing — passing down
and going to stop.

^ ^ I ran in. He was propped up with pillows,
writing to his father, to express the birth of
the twins. He — he directed the letter and
sent me to his wife with his dear love, and
how did she feel herself ? When I got back,
dying he was with the letter in his hand. I

could see his face change as I gave him
the — the message. He expressed he was
pleased, but he soon began to ramble in his
talk, and just at noon that day he died in
my Terms, as softly as could be.

*' We kept the — the girl about us, and when
Mrs. Plumstead was able to travel, we took
her and the — the boy-baby too, for it was
made out that the poor lady was — was too
delicate by half to nurse her child.

'^ When we got well away, Mrs. Plumstead
had to give the — the girl a very heavy bribe,
to leave her child. She was a thief and a
good-for-nothing little — little hussy; but
she loved her baby, and at last Mrs. Plum-stead
got out her jewel-case and sat smiling
at her, and showed her — her two diamond
earrings ; and she sat staring as — as if she
would eat them. Then Mrs. Plumstead put
them in her ears, and gave her a little hand-glass
to look at herself; but she kept
sulking and pouting. Then Mrs. Plum-stead
gave her a pink coral brooch, and she

began to talk and smile and show her pretty
^vhite teeth; and — and at last Mrs. Plum-stead
shook out a long gold chain, and looked
at her and smiled, and put it round her neck,
and — and the girl started up and gave a
great cry, and ran out of the room, never
looking back, and took herself off, and — and
we saw her no more.

That's all about it, Maria, it was very
easy done. We soon hired a wet nurse for the
boy, and came out of Italy to a place they —
they call Mentioned.

** But nothing seemed to go right, for here
the little girl baby died, and Mrs. Plumstead
took on most — most fearful, and made out
that I'd encouraged her to do the thing, and
the death of the baby was sent to punish her.
She fretted and used to put herself quite
in a rage over the letters she got from her
relations. She must be — be thankful, they
all said, she'd got her dear boy left.

^^ She was all brown, her cheeks were soft
and brown, and her eyes like — like brown

velvet. The baby was not as brown as she.
Well, Maria, in a few months we came to
England, and there I did a— a foolish
thing—"

The daughter, all eyes, sat listening ; tears
were on the mother's cheeks.

'^ A foolish thing, and lost my hold over
her. I married your father. He came to seeme,
and vowed he would not wait any longer.
And I married him."

*well, mother, many's the time you said
he made you a good husband, and he never
drank."

'^No, my girl; but 5/1^ had promised me
two hundred pounds, and she — she said she
could not get at it before I married, for —
for she must not part with any more of her
jewels. Afterwards she was engaged to be
married again, and I — I heard it. I was benton
having that money. I thought if she put
me off any more, I would threaten her that
I would speak ; and as soon as I got well,
after you were born, I took you on my arm

and went to her house. Oh, Ma — Maria ! it
cuts me to the heart to think on it. I'd
done my level best to serve her, and nothing
was to come of it.

*' * You cannot speak with Mrs. Plumstead
to-day,' said the butler, ^ she's distracted
with — with grief; we've lost Master Geoffry.'
I did see her, though ; she was hiding herself
in her dressing-room. She did not wish it to
be seen that she had no tears to shed. But
oh! she was vexed. He had died of croup.
I saw it was a bad chance for me ; she — she
put me off with promises and promises."

'^ Then why didn't you say you would
speak of it ? " asked the daughter eagerly.

'' Where would have been the use, my girl ?
And — and she promised me so fair. Who
could I tell it to either — nobody cared ? He
was out of the way of the next heir, and —
and — and the girl could never come and
seek her own ; she did not so much as know
our names. But, Maria, it — it seemed hard."

*' Mother, didn't I say that those stories
VOL. I. r

never end well ? They are alike for
that."

** I got but ten pounds of her, Maria, and
when I was put out she smiled — yes, she
did ; she — she looked at me and smiled ! "

^^It was a shame."

^ ' Ay, and she soon went to Scotland with
her new husband, and had live fine boys, one
after the other ; but — but she never gave me
aught but their old clothes for mine, and
paid the carriage of the parcels — I will say
that : she — she paid the carriage."

you've no writing for the two hundred
? " asked the daughter.

*'No — and there's nothing to be done.
I — I — I can't punish her without ac —
accusing myself."

'' If you think so, mother — "
*' I know it, my girl, and it seems to hold
me back ; and me only five and forty and a
widow, to think of my missing such a
payment after — after, as you may say, it was
fairly won ! "

^' I'm sorry I vexed yon the other clay,
mother," said the daughter with absurd
compunction.

'say, Ma — Maria, my girl, it was not
dutiful of you." The daughter kissed her,
and the mother wiped away some tears.
Then there was a long silence.

' You'll stop and dine, mother ? We could
both dine in the kitchen ; and, if anybody
called, I could leave you and baby there,"
said Mrs. Airdd at last.

*'No, I'd best not; but if you could
keep him another day or so — "

To be sure, mother. Why, I find nobody
ever comes except between three and six.
As to Mrs. Leach, she'll not have a day at
home for the next fortnight, so she'll never
see him. Leave him, mother, and, when I
want you to come for him, I'll drop you a
post-card."

So Mrs. Pearson departed, not having
stayed more than an hour or seen either of
the children.

F 2

Mr. Johnston's mother drove oyer again
that afternoon, and wept as she told the
story of the little Irene's death, and the
father's distress. Her daughter-in-law, she
said, was causing great anxiety to them all
by the way that she appeared to be sinking
under this trial. Maria Airdd won golden
opinions for herself by the tears she also
shed when she heard this.

One baby was gone out for a walk, in
charge of the girl ; the other was lying on
her knee : which was it ? If it was not the
same that Mrs. Johnston's mother had
seen two or three days before, she certainly
did not notice any such fact.

Maria Airdd, after that, expected at least
one visitor every day, and never failed to have
one. The day following the grandmother's
visit came a telegram from the doctor. She
was in every way ready for him ; the house
very clean, the baby fast asleep (she said she
had just nursed him), the other baby away.

** I shall not be able to come again," he

said as he departed. ^' Mrs. Johnston's
mother will now see that you have what you
want. At the same time, if anything should
ail the child, you will of course telegraph tome
; for in such a case, you understand, I
certainly should come."

So he took his leave, having done mischief
which, when it disclosed itself, he was truly
sorry for. But what are doctors to do ? He
had changed his coat after his morning visit
to Harley Street, and, as we all know,
doctors never convey infection.

Mrs. Pearson had agreed with her daughter
that a card should be posted to her when
the baby was to be fetched, but she was very
much surprised when a fortnight within one
day had elapsed, and the expected card had
not arrived. " But Maria is very deep," she
reflected, " and, if she is going to do her duty
by her own child, she'll yet be wishful that I
should not know it — know it, for certain.
Very like I may go on to the end of my days
and never hear the real truth from her own

mouth ; but I shall feel sure about what it is
for all that ; and she thinks the child may
alter a good bit in a fortnight. Besides,
she'll have weaned the other."
The same evening a letter arrived : —
^' Dearest Mother,

*' I feel myself very ill. Come as
soon as ever you can tomorrow morning and
fetch away Lanceyy. They are both so very
fractious, I don't know where to turn.
['^ Both so fractions, are they? I expected it of
one of them," mused the grandmother.] I shall
get up as early as I can, and have mine ready.
I do so want you to take him ; I cannot do
with them both [^^ That looks ivell ! "], for my
head aches so, night and day, and his fretting
makes me feel worse. Mother, don't fail to
come.

** Your dutiful daughter,

^' Maria Jane Airdd."
At nine o'clock the next morning, Mrs.
Pearson walked in. Her daughter Maria,
who seemed to be sitting up with difficulty,

was dressing one baby ; the other— presumably
her own — was abbacy in cloak and hood.

The mother's keen glance made her at
once aware of something more the matter
than she had anticipated. The daughter
acknowledged no discomforts but headache
and sore throat, and was presently so giddy
that her mother made her go into the
chamber and lie down on her bed.

And now, as is often the case, the daughter
found herself more than commonly under
the dominion of her natural qualities of mind,
just, as it seemed, because it was more than
commonly needful to success that she should
escape from them. :

She preserved an open innocence of
manner, and said nothing at all to her
mother, who knew, or thought, at once that
no confidence would be reposed in her, and
that all depended on her own keenness of
observation. So she left her on her bed, and,
taking her time to examine the children,
to cogitate, and to make her arrangements,

sent, in about an hour, by a passing child, to
fetch the girl always trusted to carry out one
of the children, put him into her arms in the
little grey cloak and veil, and, having already
despatched a telegram for the doctor, sat
nursing the other child till his carriage appeared,
and out he bustled. Mrs. Pearson
met him.

^^ My daughter wrote me word, sir, last
night, that she felt herself ill, and I have
just come over to see her."

'' What is the matter ? "

^' I hope, sir, considering that — that she
has done her best," the mother began,
following him into the little chamber.

'take the baby out of the room," were
almost his first words.

' I feel so confused, sir, and my throat so
sore," said the poor young creature.

Mrs. Airdd felt more confused as the day wore
on, but she knew her mother was sometimes
present, and that both the babies were gone.

She was quite able also to take pleasure

in the knowledge that she was to be nursed
at the charges of the Johnston, and she did
not forget that, dien her mother said to the
doctor that she knew very well how her
daughter had caught the infection which had
deprived her of her situation, he looked concerned,
said not a word, but put his hand in
his pocket and gave her a sovereign.

She was skilfully and carefully nursed,
and was never seriously ill — scarcely in bed
more than a fortnight.

Then began her education.

She sat up, thin, white-handed, and with
eyes full of brooding thought and doubtful
cogitation. She was to remain in the little
lodgings at Kew for a full month, and then
to have change, that the Johnston might
not have it on their consciences that anything
was left undone for her good, or to prevent
the further spread of infection.

Mr. Johnston's mother had fetched away
the baby, and happily he did not have the
fever. The other child took it, and, of course,

was nursed in the little lodgings at the back
of Kensington Square.

Always in doubt, turning things over in
her mind, Maria Airdd would sit out in Kew
Gardens, pondering over what she had done.
^^ Was it worth while to have done this thing ?
No, but it was now not worth while to go
through the far worse misery of undoing it.
But was it done, after all ? That depended
entirely on what had been her mother's
opinion of matters when she had been left
alone with the children. But, oh, to be well
again ! " thought the young woman, ^'and seethe
baby again. I shall know whether it's my
own or not. If it is, after all I've gone
through, I think I shall be glad, though it may
seem hard, when I'd got it done, to have it
undone. Yet if it is not — oh ! I do think I
must confess it, come what will ! "

But all sense of the possibility of such a
thing as confession and restitution was soon
over, and every day she got more used to
the dull brooding pain that had worn itself

a home in her breast. She knew and felt
that she had done a animal action, hut she
did not, strange to say, hy any means think
of herself as a criminal.

A criminal seemed to he some one whose
crime was a part of himself, sone one with
whom crime was ingrain, and she felt, in spite
of all Bible teaching and school teaching, as
if her fault was external to herself — something
into which she had been tricked by circumstances.


And yet she knew it was wrong to dislike,
as she did, the notion of having to work for,
and bring up, and act mother to, the John-stone
baby. Very soon, almost all her sense
of wrong doing attached itself to this dislike.


She longed to go to service again, though
she should have to pay her mother half the
money she got to take care of this child
and bring him up. And how soon could
she make interest for his being got into
some orphan school ? Then she could go

abroad and see him no more. Better by half
never to set her eyes upon her own son again
than have that other woman's son always
beside her !

CHAPTER lY.

It was nearly the end of July when Maria
Jane Airdd, getting out of an omnibus, passed
through Kensington Square to her mother's
lodgings.

She was expected. Her sister, a girl of
fourteen, ran and snatched up the baby, and,
thrusting him almost into her face, expatiated
on his good temper, and demanded her eulogies
in the same breath. * * Ain't he grown ? ' '
she exclaimed, giving him a sounding kiss.

The mother, having greeted her daughter,
turned again at once to the ironing-board
and looked away, while Mrs. Airdd, without
taking the child, gazed at him with earnest,
anxious attention.

** What ails you ? " asked her sister.

*she's so changed," she murmured.

The thing sat boldly up, and stared at
her — she stared at him.

Though it was a hot night, she began to
shiver ; she remembered so well the two
babes she had parted from, and all the small
but unmistakable particulars of feature and
countenance in which they differed ; but this
differed from both.

This little fellow had a certain small
amount of speculation in his bead-like blue
eyes ; he was more than ^yq months old. He
clutched the little sister's hair, and tried to
suck it ; when she tossed him up, he uttered
an ecstatic squeal to express approval ; he
turned his head when he heard the click of
the iron as it was set down ; when she took
him in her arms he cried, for his dawning
intelligence seemed to assure him that she
was a stranger.

She had thought incessantly on the two
children ever since they had been taken from
her. This child was not the least like her
faithful recollection of either.

** By my not knowing him," she reflected,
*'I am sm-e he is not mine; mine I shall
certainly know, and I shall never rest till
I've seen him."

*she kicks ever so when he wants me to
put him down," observed the zealous little
sister ; *^ he likes to lie on the floor on the
woolly mat."

Mrs. Pearson then came forward to show
off some of his accomplishments ; he took a
great deal of notice, it appeared.

'' Toss him up and make him laugh,
'Elizabeth." No sooner said than done. The
baby crowed and cooed, and showed his
toothless gums, and, at the sight of this
reality, her remembrance faded away.

She took him and pressed him to her
bosom with a sort of yearning, for he might
be hers ; but she soon put him down again,
for — oh, strange uncertainty, he might not !

The baby, the two sisters, and their
mother, all slept in one room that night ;
there was but one other — the living-room,

which also served for a kitchen. There was
scant opportunity for such conversation as
the young widow might have been supposed
to long for with her mother; but it was
characteristic of both the women that, so far
from wishing to talk, they dreaded to be
alone together. The mother, having for so
many years kept her own secret, felt a kind
of resentment against her favourite child for
having been so tardy, so unwilling to take a
hint as to have at last forced it from her ;
the daughter feared to ask a direct question,
lest her mother should prevaricate in her
answer, and so make her feel doubtful evermore
in spite of any protestations that might
come after. No, she should certainly find
her own child less altered ; she should know
him easily enough. She would wait, and in
the meantime try to be good to this one.

Some weeks after this the Johnston
came back to London for a short time preparatory
to an autumnal sojourn at the seaside,
and Mrs. Johnston received a letter,

which she thought a very nice one. She
was quite well herself, and her little girls
were well, so was the baby —-deed, he had
never been otherwise.

'' Madam," ran the letter, ** I have long
been perfectly recovered, and hope never to
forget how good you have been to me. I came
home some time ago and found my baby
very well under mother's charge.

Madam, I feel such a great wish to see
your dear babe ; might I take the liberty to
come some morning to set my eyes upon
him ? I hope he was none the worse for my
being ill so suddenly. Hoping to hear from
you, madam, I am,

'^ Your humble servant,

*' Maria Jane Airdd."

Kindly creature ! " said Mrs. Johnston,
handing over the letter to her husband.
]\rany women feel a great love for their
foster-children. I shall be pleased to show
baby to her."

So one morning, about the end of September,

VOL. I. G

Mrs. Airdd was shown up into the nursery at
Upper Harley Street. She was to dine there
and spend the day. Mrs. Johnston brought
her up herself. The boy was asleep in his
cradle ; he was a great, fat, heavy child, almost
half as big again as the active, lean
little fellow she had left at home. She had
all but made up her mind — the want of
maternal yearning towards the baby at home
having persuaded her most of all — yet she
longed to recognize this child, and so be
sure for ever. She fully looked for certainty,
but this child also was so much changed,
that, as she stood looking at him, she could
not help shedding tears. He awoke, rosy
and cross, and would not come to her, and
she knew she must now tell all to her mother,
and get the real truth from her, or else forever
be uncertain which was which. She
looked round at the pretty little sisters ;
there was no special likeness between him
and them ; just so she had recalled all her
own and her husband's relatives as far as

she had known them in childhood, and she
found no decisive likeness to either child
there. The children were both fair, both
blue eyed ; this was a fine fat baby, but then
he had never been ill. The other had had
an attack of scarlatina, had been pulled down
by it, and was not fat ; that was all.

Maria Airdd did not get out of the omnibus
which brought her to Kensington High
Street till about seven o'clock in the evening;
the day had been hot and the street was
more shady than dusk, though the weather
was remarkably overcast.

As she walked on, she saw a stretcher
preceding her. It was borne on the shoulders
of four policemen, who were pacing carefully
along. At first she knew not what was
upon it — it was something brown. Then
suddenly it revealed itself plainly to her —
a woman's gown. Yes, poor creature, it was
a woman.

Bandages were swathed round and round
her and the stretcher, but she did not move

or show any sign of life. Mrs. Airdd could
make out her figure, and, as she went on,
still the stretcher preceded her up a street,
through the square, then down another street,
then to the little court where she lived, and
there — oh, terror ! it stopped at her mother's
door.

A cry from within echoed her agonized
voice without, ^* Oh, mother, mother ! "

The dull misery of the day was as nothing,
now this more acute agony absorbed all her
thoughts.

The poor patient was carried to her bed,
and her daughters were told of her having
been run over in one of the narrow streets
near, and from the first, having been insensible,
showing in her face no expression
of pain.

A kindly neighbour proposed to take
charge of the baby for the night. The young
widow let him go, scarcely looking at him ;
she remembered every few minutes, with a
flash of fear, that she might now perhaps

never be able to ask the question on which
so much depended. She loved her mother,
and between this love and this fear it seemed
as if nothing could exhaust her. That night
and the next day, and through the next
night, her untiring eyes kept watch ; her unwearied
hands were busy about the silent
patient.

Sometimes a little better, there would
seem to be intelligence in her mother's eyes,
then again there would be a wandering and
aimless gaze.

The daughters were told to hope, and
hope assisted in sustaining them ; but as yet
no communication was possible. At last
Maria Jane Airdd felt that she could do no
more, and left her place by the bed-side to
her sister.

Another weary day and night passed, still
they were told to hope ; then, just at dawn,
the tired sister crept to Maria's bed and
woke her with, '' Mother has spoken quite
sensibly several times;" and she got up, and

came to take her turn at the nursing. The
red flush and solemn light of sunrise was
on the ceiling, and seemed to be cast down
on her mother's pallid and wasted features.
She saw at once an improvement of a certain
kind, but the face was no longer calm ; she
laid her hand gently on her mother's, saying,
in a soothing tone, ^* You must be quite still,
mother dear, and not fuss yourself about
anything — there's no occasion."

Such a commonplace reply, — '' Me not
fuss, and your silk gown gone to the
pawnbroker's ? "

Don't trouble about that, dear mother."

*sand your watch — I heard you both
express that you'd do it when you did not
think I noticed."

'well, mother dear, I can get them out
when you're better," said the daughter
soothingly.

I — I never loved to see the dawn, I told
Mm — told him that lie, just at the dawn."

"It did no harm in the ending of it.

mother dear," she answered, understanding
her instantly.

Then it — it don't signify, Maria, my
girl ? "

"No, nothing signifies but your getting
well."

And Where's the child ? "

I paid fourpence to have him taken care
of for to-night.— Mother ?"

'say, my girl."

'• The child — we were talking of the child.
Is he mine ? "

She leaned down with a face full of
earnest entreaty and anguish ; the mother
gasped, and seemed to make an effort to
speak.

"Is he mine?" murmured the daughter.
Did you change him, mother ? Say yes, or
say no."

And yet neither could be said. There
seemed to be some effort first to speak, then
some effort to bear in mind the matter that
should be spoken of, and after that the little

glimpse of sense and reason was gone. The
daughter thought she whispered, ^' Some other
time;" then her eyes closed, and the salacious
hope of recovery was over.

It was about a month after this that Mrs.
Johnston got another letter from Mrs.
Airdd, and was touched by the simple filial love
and grief that breathed through it. Her
dear mother, the best of parents, had been
knocked down by a cab in the street on the
very day that the writer had spent in Upper
Harley Street, and had met with injuries to
her head. The last sentence Mrs. Johnston
read without any thought of the anguish
which had wrung it from the writer, or of
how much it concerned herself.

'she died, and, madam! there were
words I longed above all things to hear from
her poor lips, and she could not say them."

Poor thing ! " said Mrs. Johnston,
quietly laying the letter aside, '' I like that
young woman ; there's something so open
and sincere about her."

*' But I rather think this is meant fora

begging letter, my dear," observed Mr.
Johnston ; ^' this is rather a telling sentence
as to her not being able to maintain herself
in service again on account of the hidden of
her young child."

He had a newspaper in his hand, and, ashe
spoke, he looked down and aside from it at
the Httle Donald, who was now seven months
old, and was crowing and kicking on the rug —
a puppy nestling close to him, and receiving
meekly various soft infantile thumps from his
fat little fist. A red setter, the mother of the
puppy, looked on with a somewhat dejected
air, as if she knew her offspring was honoured
by the notice of this child of the favoured
race, but yet could have wished those dimpled
hands would respect her treasure's eyes.
Mr. Johnston, from looking at his heir, got
to whistling to him. '^ You're a burden — a
very sore burden," he said, smiling, to him ;
*' did you know that ? "

The baby stared at him, understanding
the good will in his pleasant face, but
nothing more. He was old enough already to

answer the paternal expression, and presently
he smiled all over his little face.

As long as only the puppy had been procurable
as a playmate, he had been contented
with it ; but now, conceiving hope of a more
desirable slave, he made vigorous efforts to
turn himself over, and, clutching his father's
foot, soon got himself taken up, and began
forthwith to amuse himself and make himself
agreeable according to his lights, dashing
his hand into his father's breakfast cup, and,
when this had been withdrawn and dried,
seizing various envelopes, dropping them on
the floor, and beginning to crow and screech
with the peculiar ecstasy of a baby in full
action, while he worked his arms and legs
about, reckless ofthe trouble it was to prevent
him from wriggling off. Meanwhile Mrs.
Johnston smiled \vith some quiet enjoyment,
and carefully removed all the knives and all
the crockery out of his reach.

"Well, love," she said at last, 'shave
you had enough of it ? " Thereupon Mr.

Johnston called to the dog, *^ Die, ring the
bell;" and the setter walked forth from
under the table, and, grasping the bell-handle
in both paws, pulled it down, while
his master, still struggling with the baby,
exclaimed, " This boy has more life in him
than all the girls put together. I defy any
fellow to hold him, and take care of him
without giving his whole mind to it and to
nothing else."

There goes the milk ! " said the mother ;
'* I did not think he could have reached it.
Look, my baby, dear ! does baby know what
he has done ? "

^' He looks as if he did; the sapient air he
gives himself is something wonderful. It is
evident that a man-child from the first is
different from girl babies. What shall I do
with you, my son, when you are older ? "

^' Don't afflict thyself, love," said his wife,
caressing his hand ; " he is just like the
others ; but you know you were never in the
habit of having them downstairs at breakfast

time, nor of otherwise troubling yourself
with the charge of them."

The nurse now appeared, and had no
sooner carried off Master Donald Johnston,
and shut the door behind her, than Die the
setter started up with several little yaps of
satisfaction, and, seizing her puppy by the
neck, deposited it in Mrs. Johnston's lap.
The setter knew very well that her puppy
was a thing of no account when the baby
was present, and she sometimes testified her
dissatisfaction, and expressed her sensation
of dulness in his society, and the neglect
it brought her, by uttering a loud an
somewhat impertinent yawn. Now she was
happy, and probably thought things were as
they should be ; her puppy had curled himself
up in the upstart baby's place, and she
was watching him, with her chin upon her
master's foot.

Mr. Johnston was a man about thirty-four
years of age ; he was about the middle
height ; in complexion he inclined to fairness;

he was neither handsome nor plain ; he
walked much more like a soldier than a
civilian, and he had one remarkably
agreeable feature — his eyes, which were of a
bright light hazel, had a charming power of
expressing affection and frankness. He was
a man whom everybody liked, and most of
all those who had the most to do with him.
People who made his acquaintance often
found themselves attached to him before
they had discovered why.

Mrs. Johnston, on the other hand, was
much above the middle height ; she had not
one good feature, and yet she was exceedingly
admired by the other sex, and had
been won, with great difficulty, by her
husband from several other suitors who
sighed for her. She had that hair which, of all
the varieties called red, is alone beautiful.
It was so light and bright that it crowned
her like a glory, and she had blue eyes and
thick light eyelashes.

An easy, cordial manner, and that

observant tact which always characterize a
much-admired woman, were in her case
mingled with real sweetness of native and
wish to do kindness. These good qualities,
however, by no means accounted for the love
which had been lavished on her. That
must be indeed an unamiable woman whose
lovers can find no good quality to quote in
excuse, or perhaps as a reason (!), for the
extravagance of their love. Mr. Johnston
had never raved about her virtues ; that was,
perhaps, because he had taken them all for
granted; and when, after some months of marriage,
he discovered that her charm was an
abiding one, and that she was just as sensible,
just as devoted, and no more extravagant than
other men's wives, he could hardly believe
in his own good fortune. He also showed
himself a sensible man. Of course she was
lovely — most men thought so — but he never
had her photographed. Photographs deal
with facts, and when the photograph showed
him rather a long upper lip, eyes by no means

lustrous, and a nose neither Roman nor
Grecian, he destroyed it, all but one copy,
which he intended to keep carefully hidden
for himself, and begged her never to be
photographed again.

Then she laughed, but not without a
certain tenderness, and said, " Oh, Donald,
what a goose you are ! "

''Do you think so, my dear?" he
answered, still looking at the portrait rather
ruefully, and then at her as she sat by him
on a sofa.

Of course," she answered, looking him
straight in the face, as if lost in contemplation.


"Well?" he asked.

'•'And yet I always did — and I suppose I
always shall — think you the only man worth
mentioning."

But that little scene had been long over
at the time when Die the setter put her
puppy into Mrs. Donald Johnston's lap. A
discussion took place which concerned Mrs.

Airdd, and which ended in a handsome present
of money being sent her by post-office order,
with a letter from Mrs. Johnston, who told
her that, if ever she did go to service again,
she might depend on a good character from
her as an honest, sober, cleanly, and
thoroughly trustworthy person.

Having written this kind letter, and
shown herself just as able as most of us
judge of character — that is, just as unable
to divide manner from conduct, to make
allowance for overwhelming circumstance,
and bridge over the wide gap, in her
thoughts, which rends apart the interests of
the rich from those of the poor — Mrs.
Johnston almost forgot Maria Airdd. She
had a letter of thanks from her, but she was
never asked for the ^^ character ;" the very
dangerous illness which had caused her to
want this young woman's services, and the
loss of her little girl, began alike to recede
into the background of her thoughts. She
could think of her precious little Irene

without tears. Her two little girls were
healthy and happy, her boy was growing
fast, and she was shortly hoping to add
another boy to her little tribe. Of course
it was to be a boy ; her husband's great desire
for sons always made her feel as if her girls
were failures. He was fond of them, and
imagined that he made no difference between
one and another of his children ; but
his little daughters, though by no means
able to express a contrary opinion, not
only held it, but would certainly have
justified it, if they had known how ; they
shared their father's views, and considered
that their 'boy-baby " enhanced their own

dignity.

It was about the longest day ; Mr. John-stone,
coming home to dinner, was advancing
along Upper Harley Street on foot, when a
young man, who seemed to be loitering
along, looking out for some one, met him and
suddenly stopped short without addressing
him.

VOL. r. ir

Mr Johnston for the moment stopped
short also.

'' Sir," said the man, turning as he went
on, and walking beside him, '^I am aware
that I am speaking to Mr. Johnston."

'certainly you are: what do you want
with me ? "

He paused, for he had reached his own
steps. He had spoken with the brusque
manner that an officer uses in addressing a
soldier. He now looked the young man
straight in the face, and saw, to his surprise,
the signs of great and varying emotion, and
a strange flush of anger or shame. 'not
drunk," thought Mr. Johnston. The man
looked at him, and at that instant the
footman answered his master's knock.

Well ? " said Mr. Johnston.

"I can't say it," exclaimed the young
fellow ; and, turning round, he almost ran
away.

"Queer!" thought the lawyer, and he
entered his own house, pondering on the

matter ; but he soon forgot it, for Mrs.
Johnston was not at all well.

In the course of a few hours there was
another infantile failure in Upper Harley
Street.

The father, intensely grateful for this
endeared wife's safety, went to bed in broad
daylight ; but, first putting his head out of
the open window to inhale the early air, he
saw, looking up — but it flitted away almost at
once — a female figure that seemed familiar
to him. Surely that was the nurse — the
young widow, Mrs. Airdd ? Odd of her to be
gazing up at his window at three o'clock
in the morning — and with her was (or he
was very much mistaken) the identical
young man who had accosted him in the
street, and then so suddenly taken himself
off!

Mr. Johnston closed the window, and

very soon fell asleep, looked down upon by

hundreds of cabbage roses — for this was the

same room where Mrs. xiird had been sitting

][ 2

with his boy-baby when the telegram came
in that sent them out of the house.

A few days had passed, Mrs. Johnston
was said to be " as well as could be expected,"
when one evening, just as he had dined, her
husband was told that a young man wanted
to speak with him.

The young man had been shown into a
library at the back of the house, the Hight
was already going, but Mr. Johnston recognized
him instantly.

'* You accosted me in the street the other
day?"

^* Yes, sir."

The clear hazel eyes looked straight at
him ; his next speech seemed to be in answer
to them, — " I am not come here to deceive
you, sir."

CHAPTER V.

Mk. Johnston rang the bell, and a shaded
lamp was brought in. The young man did
not speak till the servant had shut the door ;
then, looking at Mr. Johnston as he stood
on the rug, ^' I should wish to prevent mistakes,"
he began.

'' You had better sit down," was the
answer.

The young man sat down. *^ I am not
come to ask your professional aid, sir," he
continued; ''I know this ain't the place todo
it in, and I know you've nothing to do
with criminal cases either. But, sir, it is a
crime that I'm come to speak of. Well — no,
I don't know what it is, and nobody else
does."

Here Mr. Johnston naturally felt some

astonishment, and his clear, keen eyes held
the young man so completely under their
control that he seemed to find nothing to say,
but to repeat his former assurance.

'^I am not come here to deceiv^eyou, sir —
why should I ? I might have kept away and
never said a word. But, oh, it's hard upon
me that I should have it to do ! "

'' It seems to me that you have to accuse
some one else, then ? " said his host, intending
to help him.

^^Yes."

'' By the way you express yourself, I gather
that the crime, whatever it may be, is not
committed yet ? It might be a burglary, for
instance, projected but not accomplished ? "

^' Oh, no, sir, no — they were both as honest
as the day, poor things ! "

*' Women, then?"

*^ Yes, sir."

'^ Well, man, speak out ! "

*^ Speak out ! " repeated the young man
passionately ; *^ speak out ! when it's my own

wife, that I haven't been married to three
weeks, and when I don't know what you'll
do to her ? Speak out ! If you'd ever loved
a woman as I love her, you'd — you'd be more
merciful, sir."

Excited as the young man was, he perceived
at once that this exclamation was, in
the ears of his listener, absolutely absurd.
Donald Johnston had, as if involuntarily,
lifted his eyes ; they rested on the wall, behind
where the young husband had been
ordered to sit. He saw for a moment, in their
clear depth, not the assertion, but the evidence,
of a passionate love which, even in the first
freshness of his own, brought his thoughts to
a pause . Then there wa s something deliberate
in their withdrawal which checked the young
man's desire to glance behind him. Something
like a flash of displeasure met his gaze.
He perceived that he was supposed to have
taken a liberty. There was no answer to his
speech ; he must begin again as well as he
could.

'^ It's my wife and her mother," he said ina
low voice, ^'that I've come to speak of —
what one of them did, as we are afraid (for,
mark you, sir, we are not sure) — what one of
them did, and the other let to be done — what
one of them did, and then died, and we think
wanted to speak of first, hut could not find
the words."

*^ Your wife and her mother?" repeated
Mr. Johnston with a weighty calm ; *' and
you feel that you must lay it before someone
? You want advice — is that it ? "

*' No, sir, not advice; my wife wants forgiveness,
if you could forgive her."

Mr. Johnston looked surprised, but not
at all alarmed.

The young man wiped his forehead. *' I
fell in love with her when she had her widow's
cap on a full year ago," he said; " but, when
I offered to her, she would not have me. I
was so fond of her ; I said, ' I ain't
capable of taking a denial without a reason.'
Then she says, * Have the reason : Fve something

on my mind.' Her name was Maria
Jane Airdd."

Mr. Johnston was not surprised ; he remembered
how he had seen this yomig
woman when he looked out of the window in
the night. Pity for the husband arose in his
mind.

'^ She was in a situation of trust," he said,
'^ and I am afraid you mean that she abused
it?"

'' Yes, sir— alas ! she did. But at that
time she would not tell me what her fault was.
You, may be, would not hold to your wish
to take me,' was all she said, ' if you knew
what I have on my mind;' but I did hold toit
— I could not help it — and she never did
speak, though, in the end, she married
me."

His distress was such that Mr. Johnston
tried to help him again.

'' And then she probably told you that she
had unfortunately taken something of value
out of this house—some jewel, perhaps ? If

SO, you are come to return it ? Well, I pity
you, and I forgive her."

^^ Bless you, sir!" exclaimed the young
man, quite impatient at his calm ; ''I told
you they were honest. Sir, don't make it
harder for me and yourself too. You will
have it that this thing is nothing to you.
It is ; I think, if you would sit down, I could
speak better ; won't you, sir ? There, that's
it ! I'm talking of my wife, Maria ; she was
wet-nurse here."

'eyes."

'^ And you sent her away from the house
with your baby ? "

^^Yes."

Now, at last, something like fear began to
show itself in Donald Johnston's face, but it
was a vague fear.

'^ You never ought to have done it, sir."

He was quite well," answered the father,
amazed and pale, ' ' quite well all the time ;
he cannot have met with any injury ? She
must have done her duty by him."

'you should not have done it," repeated
the young man. " Ash make out, you were
so afraid of an illness you had in the house
that you never came near him or set your
eyes on him for two or three months ; and
how were you to judge, when you had a child
back, whether it was the same ? Sir, sit
down; don't look like that ! There! it's quite
possible the children were not changed."

Changed ! " exclaimed the father, shuddering.


I'm sure I don't know how to tell it you,
but my poor wife, all on a sudden, was taken
very ill, and sent for lier mother, who came
with the baby — Maria's baby. Maria did
not see either of the children again, being so
ill. I don't know how to tell it you, but I'm
afraid that woman, Vanishing her own grandchild
in a better position — I am afraid those
children were changed."

No need now to tell the father to take this
thing seriously ; he trembled from head to foot
and could not speak.

*' But we shall never know," proceeded the
young man. '^ ^ Is the other child living f ' I
seem to thmk you would ask. Yes, sir, and
as well as can be."

'' It's impossible your wife should be in
any doubt," exclaimed the other, recovering
his voice and starting up, white to the lips.
^^ Impossible she should not know ! She
must know, she does know, whether this
wicked, base, cruel crime was perpetrated
or not. And what makes her even suspect
such a thing ? " he added, sinking
back faint between his passion and his
despair.

Her mother many times tempted her todo
it, sir, and was angry with her because
she would not," said the young man in a
deprecating tone. " They had words, and
Maria was angry with' her mother too."

^*No, that story won't do. Angry with
her, and then send for her, and leave her
alone with all opportunity to do her worst ? "

** It seems bad, sir," continued the young

man With studied gentleness and patience.
*' And it's only a fancy of Maria's that she
might have done it. We haven't the least
proof, Mr. Johnston."

*'If she connived at it, she is a wretch,
as lost to all justice and mercy as her
mother."

"And that's what lies so heavy on her
mind," said the husband, still in a low, deprecatory
voice.

How did she tell it you ? Let me know
the worst — for heaven's sake let me hear it
all ! "

'' We had but been married three days,
and it was Sunday. Maria was putting the
little chap's coat on. I says, 'He's a credit
to you, Maria.' 'He'll be my punishment
before he's done,' she makes answer ; ' for,
David, this child is what I have on my mind,'
She was kneeling on the ground ; she put
on her things, but you may think we did
not go to church that morning. I carried
the child into Richmond park (I live and

have my trade at Richmond). There we
sat down, and I said, ' Maria, my dear, it's
now time to speak. I've often seen you
fret — and so it's concerning your child ? '
Yes,' she makes answer again, ' for I give
you my plain word for it — and what I say
I mean, David — I don't know whether he's
mine or not.' "

It will be observed that this version of the
story was not the true one, for Maria Airdd
did change the children. All her doubt was
as to what her mother had done, otherwise
she would have known well enough that the
child her second husband was so willing to
be good to was not hers. The young man,
however, did his best to make the thing-plain
; he gave the version he had received.
His wife's sorrow and repentance were
genuine — this he had perceived at once ;
and that she was capable of fretting over her
fault, and yet misrepresenting it, never entered
his head. She screened herself at the
expense of the dead. He never supposed

that her misery, in the sense of this uncertainty,
was half owing to her doubt as to
whether or not she had secured a better lot
in life for her child in return for her own
distress of mind. If she had been sure this
was the case, she would have felt herself
repaid ; but to have lost her own child utterly,
and yet to have no reward— to be unable
to love the one she had in her arms, and
yet not be sure that she did not owe him
a mother's love — was more than her half-awakened
conscience could bear. She had
turned herself out of the paradise of innocence
; she had gathered the apple and not
tasted its sweetness : how was she to know
what a common experience this is ? How
could she suppose that the promised good in
evil was all a cheat, and that she should
find nothing but bitterness in it from the
very first ?

The everlasting lie had been uttered to
her also.

There was silence now, and the young

man did not dare to break it. His heart
was beating more freely, for the dreaded
words had been said. He felt a strange
consciousness of the picture that he knew
was hanging behind him ; but, though Donald
Johnston's head was bowed into his hands,
it seemed impossible to turn and look at it.
But this poor gentleman was thinking of
her whom it represented. '^ Oh, my wife!"
the young man heard him murmur. The
words gave him a lump in his throat ; he
longed to be dismissed ; he thought of rising,
and proposing to take his leave, but did not
see his way to this. How long would Mr.
Johnston sit with his face in his hands ?

Mr. Johnston lifted it up at last, and the
young man had never been so astonished in
his life as he was at the tone and manner,
at the most unexpected words, and the most
keen expression of countenance with which
he accosted him.

'* What is your name, Mr. David ? "

'* My name is David CoUingwood, sir."

** And what is your calling, Mr. David
CoUingwood ? "

** I'm a carpenter, sir, the same as Maria's
first husband was."

** Oh ! Have you any thought of going
abroad — of emigrating ? "

*' Yes, sir! " exclaimed the young man,
very much astonished ; '* that's what I think
of doing as soon as ever I can. I'm saving
money for it."

''1 thought so!"

*sir?"

*^ A child would be a great burden to you
on a voyage."

*^ So Maria has always said, sir."

'' She has, has she ? Mr. David Collins


*' Yes, sir?"

** You know nothing of me ? "

'^No, I don't."

*' For instance, as to whether I am a man
of my word or no ? "

Mr. David ColHngwood here began to look
voi. I. I

a little alarmed ; involuntarily he glanced towards
the window.

His host was looking straight at him.

** Don't be frightened," he said again,
coming close to Mr, David Collingwood's
thought. ** I have no intention of throwing
you out of that ! "

David Collingwood rose quietly, — ^^Sir,
I've said what I had to say."

"Yes, but you have not heard what I
have to say ! "

"No, sir, but I can't make out what you
should have to say as I need be afraid of ! "

Why are you afraid, then ? "

I'm not ! " said the carpenter, but he
trembled.

"Do I look like a man who may be expected
to keep to what I say ? "

"Yes, you do."

Well, I say, then, if you will confess tome
that all you have said to-night is a lie — "

A lie ! " shouted the man.

' Yes, a lie, and that you — not unnaturally

feeling what a burden this child will be to
sou, and hoping to get rid of him, have persuaded
your wife — "

*' A lie ! " shouted the man again, almost
in a rage.

' Have persuaded your wife to bear you
out in this story, I will give you, David
Collingwood, two hundred pounds, and no
man out of this room shall ever hear a word
of the matter."

Why, what good would that do ? " cried
the carpenter, so much astonished that it
almost overcame his anger.

Mr. Johnston was silent. There was a
long pause.

It wouldn't help me to get rid of the
child," reasoned David Collingwood at last,
almost remonstrating with him, ^' because,
anyhow, one of them must be my wife's, and
thereby one of them must be on my hands ta
bring up."

'' You don't think so ? "

'' Don't I, sir ? " said the carpenter, almost
I 2

helplessly, and with an air of puzzlement
indescribable.

*' No, you are just as well aware as I am
that, rather than let you two take over to
Australia — (you a step-father, as you are, and
Bhe a worse than step-mother, as she must
be, whether her tale is true or false, and
whether the boy is hers or not) — rather than
let you two carry away for ever a child who
may be my child, I shall take him off your
hands — do you hear me ? — take him off
your hands and bring him up myself. Do
you mean to tell me you have not thought
of this and counted on it ? *'

David Colhngwood trembled visibly.

*^ I may have gone so far as to think — "
he began.

^*To think what?"

'' That maybe I should do so if I was
you, sir, and one of the children was
mine."

*' And what did your wife say when she
and you talked it over together ? "

'' We never did talk it over together."

** You never said to her, then, that if you
two stuck to this tale, the child was secure
of a good bringing up ? "

^^No, I didn't."

** She never wept over the boy, and said
it would be a sore distress to her to part with
him?"

'*No, she didn't; she has not a mother's
feelings for him, because of her doubt".

*^ Well, David Collingwood, I offer you two
hundred pounds to confess that this is all a
lie, and a plot between you and your wife to
get rid of her child."

David Collingwood was silent.

**I should only add one condition — that
is, that you would stay here, in this room,
till after I have seen your wife, and seen her
alone. I should tell her of your confession,
and then you have my word for silence ever
after."

** My wife would be frightened out of her
senses ! "

*^ Why ? ''

'' She thinks, and I was afeard, you would
have the law of her— take her up and prosecute
her for what she's done."

*but she did not do it."

David Collingwood was sitting down with
arms folded ; he had looked very much
puzzled, and sat long silent. At last he lifted
his face, and when Mr. Johnston saw its
expression, he involuntarily sighed.

'^ I've had mean thoughts in my mind,
like other men," he began. '^ Sir, sou may
go to my wife, if you have a mind, for I
think you have a right so to do. In short,
come what may, I don't see, now I've once
spoken, what I've got it in my power todo
for her. Yes, you may go, of course,
to her ; it ain't in my power to prevent it.
I seem to observe now what you mean, sir.
If I would own to a lie, it would what you
lawyer gentlemen call discredit me as a
witness, and then you could get alone with
my wife, and perhaps make her tell you a

different tale, and so you'd buy your own son,
and be sure you'd got him. But I say — "

'' Yes, David CoUingwood."

** I say, be hanged to your two hundred
pounds ! If my poor wife has done you
the base wrong she says she has — (well, I
mean the wrong she owns to have let her
mother do, wishing and hoping it was done)
that money ain't of any use. It is only of
use in case she has told you and me a lie.
I may have had a mean thought as well as
another man, but I'm not a villain. You
want, by means of that money, to bring out
the falseness of the tale. It cuts me very
sharp to say it to you — the tale's not false ;
worse luck ! it's true."

No answer to this. Donald Johnston,
looking straight before him, very pale, but
not convinced, was searching over his recollections.
David CoUingwood went on, —

** She never told me this that was on her
mind through any thought that I should up
and tell it to you. It slipped out along of her

feeling how fond I was of her, and to reeve
her own mind. She cannot keep a secret.
And when I broke to her that it must be told
to you, she fell into a great faint, and said
you would take her up and she should be imprisoned.
Through that I went to a lawyer."

'soh! you did?"

** Well, I did, sir, and told him all except
the names and the places. If he had said
you could and would prosecute, you would
never have heard a word from me. He
said, * The weak place is ' — but you know
what it is, sir."

»* Go on."

'' * What is the woman afraid of?' he said;

there is no witness — not one ! The person
is dead that is accused of having probably
done this thing.' * I was afraid she might
be prosecuted for a conspiracy,' said I.

No,' said he, ' there was no conspiracy.'
'It's her opinion,' said I, 'that it's more
than likely the thing was done.' 'But,'
said he, ' she cannot be prosecuted for an

opinion, and one that, if she is frightened,
she is not obliged to stick to. If there
had been any evidence whatever, but what
is to come out of her own mouth — if she
had ever breathed a word of this, or if the
other woman had — ' "

Here he paused.

'' Then the supposed father might have
brought an action in hope of obtaining
more evidence — more witnesses — was that
it ? How do you know that I shall not do
so even now ? "

"Well, I satisfied him fully, and had to
pay for it. I satisfied him that the thing —
the whole of it — was in my wife's mind and
nowhere else."

' And then you went home and told her you
believed it ? What was the lawyer's name ? "

Oh, sir, you'll excuse me."

** You paid for his information — I am
willing to pay for mine."

'^ I couldn't tell you, sir."

*^ If he was a respectable man, he told you,

first, that he would have nothing to do with
the case ; and, secondly, that he believed it
was a got-up story intended to extort money
from an unfortunate father. He advised
you to drop it, and said you where playing
with edge-tools."

David Collingwood's look of astonishment
and intense dismay seemed to show that
something very like this had actually been
said to him; he sat silent and became
angry. Donald Johnston never took his
eyes off him, but, with a pang not to be
described, he saw the astonishment subside,
the anger fade away, and the young man said
meeting his gaze with tolerable firmness.

^'And what do you think yourself, sir?
Do you think it is a got-up story ? "

^^ I don't know what to think."

'*No, sir; and as to your wanting to turn
it against me, you've met with such a cruel
wrong that I should be a brute if I couldn't
take it patiently — only — I've met with a
wrong too, sir."

** This concerns my own son — mv only
son. By what you say, I am never to know
never can know — whether the child I am
bringing up is my child or not."

'sand you've tried one way and another
to find out whether I've lied, and you have
a right — I knows it cuts — but it doesn't cut
you only."

*'No, I am truly sorry for you, David
Collingwood. If this is true — "

"For she's not what I thought she was,
and I've only been married to her three
weeks."

He broke down here, and shed tears, but
the other had no tears ; he was extremely
pale, and he trembled as he sat looking at the
portrait on the wall with unspeakable love
and almost despair.

David Collingwood sat some time trying
in vain to recover himself. Not a word was
spoken, his host knew neither what to say nor
what to do. How should he tell this beloved
wife, who had almost died to give him birth,

that he knew not whether their one son was
theirs or not ? how should he bear it himself?
Suddenly a bright hope came into his mind.
The other child might prove to have no
likeness whatever to himself or to his other
children; he might prove to be specially
unlike them. At least there would be comfort
in this if he did.

David CoUingwood spoke while he was deep
in this flattering hope. He rose and said
sullenly, '' What do you want me to do, sir ?
It's late — my wife — "

Your wife will be uneasy ? "

'' Yes, sir."

** I am afraid that on this one occasion
you cannot consider her feelings."

'^ What am I to do, then?"

*^ I am going to Richmond. It is essential
that I should see her before you do."

'^ I never said she was at Richmond ; she
is in the street, waiting for me."

*« And the child with her ? "

**No, sir, she's alone."

'' Then you stay in this room and I will
call her in."

^* You may turn the lock on me, sir, if you
please."

Donald Johnston put on his hat, left the
young husband, and, opening the front door,
looked keenly right and left. There was not
far to look : a woman in black, near at
hand, was dejectedly pacing on. As she
came absolutely to the foot of his door-steps,
he descended and looked straight into her
eyes. She stood and gazed as if fascinated,
the colour fading out of her face, and her
hands clenching themselves.

*you — you won't prosecute me?" she
entreated helplessly, and stammering as her
mother had done.

**No, you base woman," he answered,
*' because it would be useless. Come here ! "

'^ Must I — oh, sir ! — must I come in ? "

She entered. He was even then mindful
of his invalid upstairs, and shut the door
most deliberately and gently behind him;

then he entered the dining-room, locked the
door, put up the gas, and turned. She had
followed him hut a little way into the room,
and was already on her knees ; her terror
was far from simulated, and his quickness of
observation showed him in an instant that
no probable fault of her dead mother's could
ever have brought that ashen pallor and
deadly fright into her face.

'maria CoUingwood," he began, almost
in a whisper, as he stood leaning slightly
towards her and looking straight down into
her eyes, '' you have told lies to your husband
do you hear me ? — lies 1 "

Her white lips murmured something, but
it hardly seemed to be a denial. She was
kneeling upright, and with folded hands.

*' But you may look for all mercy that is
possible from me, if you will now speak the
truth*'

This was far from the way in which he
had intended to begin. Her own face had
brought his accusation upon her. She

stammered out, ''He — he would hate me;
he — he would cast me off, if — if I did. Oh,
have mercy ! " Then she had deceived her
husband; there was no plot, the man washer
dupe.

I will have mercy if you tell me all the
truth."

And he shall not know ? " she moaned.

I'll give you no time for meditation, and
for the inventing of fresh lies ; unless you
speak, and instantly, he shall know what
3'ou have already said; but if you speak,
and I feel that you speak the truth, he shall
not."

And then, at a sign from him, she rose,
took the chair he pointed to, and told all her
miserable story in few words.

Donald Johnston ground his teeth together
in the agonizing desire to keep himself
silent, lest he should frighten back the truth,
and never have a chance of hearing it more.
He allowed all to be told — her temptation,
her yielding, her illness, her intention of

sending away the wrong child, and then her
doubt as to what her mother had done. All,
he perceived, depended on what had been the
mother's opinion. She had no conscience.

sand you incline to think this second
villainy was accomplished — why ? "

smother couldn't look at me, sir, when I
got home."

^' And, on the other hand ? "

** On the other hand, when I saw the
baby here, I seemed to think he was the
most like what I remembered of mine."

CHAPTER YI.

That was a miserable night for Donald
Johnston. It was twelve o'clock before the
guilty woman and her husband were sent
away — David Collingwood almost with kindness,
and his wife without one word. The
possible father had got what he wanted — two
distinct tales, differing from one another, but,
as he listened to the details of the second, he
shared in the resolvable doubt.

He ordered David Collingwood to bring
the child the next morning, and, having dismissed
the pair, he sat till daylight filtered in
between the leaves of the shutters, and could
not decide what to do further.

It was the doubt that mastered him and
confused his mind. And what father in real
life, or in any true history, had gone

VOL. I. K

through such an experience as would be a
guide to him ? He was the victim of an unknown
crime — as truly unknown in life as
well known in the penny theatres. His distracted
thoughts dragged him through all the
phases of feeling, even to scornful laughter
that left a lump in his throat. '^ Have you a
mole on your left arm ? " asks the supposed
father in Punch, ^^ No ! " *' Then come to
my arms, my long-lost son! "

He laughed bitterly, and could not help
it ; then he moaned over his wife. How
would she bear it, and how and when could
he tell it to her ?

There was tragedy indeed here, and yet
what a hateful, enraging smack of the ridiculous
too ! He perceived that he could not
possibly let such a story come out; all
London would ring with it. When the children
were taken out with their nurses,
people would collect at his door on purpose
to look at them ! No, not a soul
must hear of it. How, then, could he do

his duty, and satisfy his love towards his
son ?

He was in his room only three hours or so.
When he came down to breakfast, he said
to the footman, " I have told Mrs. Airdd to
bring Master Donald's foster-brother here.
When they come, show them in." He had
a head-ache, and sighed bitterly as he sat
down; the hand trembled that poured out
the coffee. The moment after, there was a
modest knock at the door, and the little child
who peril cqjs had so vast a claim on him was
perhaps come to his rightful home.

He looked up ; David Collingwood and
Maria Collingwood were standing stock still
within the door. Maria did not lift up her
eyes, she was mute and pale, and she held a
lovely little boy in her arms.

'' Put that child down," was all Mr. John-stone
could say ; and he did not rise from
his place at the table. But, lo ! the small
visitor, not troubled with any doubts or fears
as to his welcome, no sooner found himself

on the floor than he began to trot towards
the rug, on which was lying the old setter,
with a puppy as usual. This one was about
two months old. She seized him as the baby
advanced, and slunk under the table. Then
the pretty little fellow laughed, and showed a
mouthful of pearls, pointing with his finger
under the table.

^^Boy did see doggy'' he said, fearlessly
addressing the strange gentleman; then,
coming straight up to him, he laid his dimpled
hand on Mr. Johnston's knee, and
stooped the better to see the dog.

'^ Up, up ! " he next said in an entreating
tone. Mr. Johnston took him up on his
knee with perfect gravity and gentleness, and
looked at the man and woman who were
standing motionless within the door. The
man was trembling ; the woman, white and
frightened, held herself absolutely still.
You may go," he said.

"One — for — Lancy," lisped the child,
pointing to some strawberries on a plate.

'' You may go," repeated Mr. Johnston;
lie could not trust himself to say more.

' Yes, sir ; when is she to come back for
him ? "

'never ! "

One — for — Lanceyy," repeated the child
with sweet entreaty.

The possible father put one into his little
hand .

I mean, sir, what are we to do — when is
she to take him back ? "

'' I know what you mean : I answer, never! ' '

The young man whispered to his wife, and
she, without once looking at the child, turned
to the door. ''I wish you good morning,
sir," he said, and in another moment they
were gone.

David Collingwood had caused his wife to
spend money of his in dressing the little
Lanceyy. The child was healthy and rosy,
clean, well arrayed, and without the least
shyness. He was a more beautiful little
fellow than the treasure upstairs, but not

quite so big. He talked rather better ; his
hair was a shade browner than that of the
two little girls in the nursery. Little Donald's,
on the contrary, was a shade lighter; and
there seemed to be no special likeness, in
either child, to himself or to his wife.

Left alone with the little Lanceyy, all the
pathos of the situation seemed to show
itself to him. He could endure it well
enough, he thought, for himself; but, like
many another sympathetic and affectionate
man, he had already begun to suffer for his
wife ; her supposed future feeling was worse
to him than his own present distress. If
he could be sure that she could bear it, he
thought he could bear it very well.

Of course the child's face did not help
him. At such an early age, children rarely
show strong family likeness, unless the appearance
of the parents is peculiar indeed.

When we see family likeness, which we
constantly do, we think how natural it is ;
but when we see family unlikeness, which

we also constantly do, it never costs us a
moment's surprise, a moment's thought. In
life, nobody is ever surprised if, or because,
a brother and sister are diverse in feature,
complexion, or character, and yet we all have
a theory concerning family likeness, and
generally it is an exaggerated one.

A fresh series of observations, if theory
could be set aside, would perhaps show that
strong likeness is almost always founded on
peculiarity.

A man of average height, with no
exaggerated feature, with somewhat light
hair, grey or hazel eyes, and a certain
freshness of complexion (neither pale nor
ruddy), together with a figure rather firmly
built, though not stout, — this description
would suit many thousands of Englishmen ;
add a shade of auburn to the beard, and it
would suit many thousands of Scotchmen ;
add a shade of blue to the eyes, and it would
suit many thousands of Irishmen. These are
the men who transmit national Likeness.

But here and there you may meet a man
with a nose Hke an eagle's beak, stalking
about his fields with his young brood after
him. In all probability, a like nose is in
course of erection on their youthful faces.
Or you fall in with a man who has a
preposterously deep bass voice — too deep for
ordinary life — much deeper, in fact, than he is
himself — his children, more likely than not,
echo that voice, sons and daughters both.
Or you see a man, lanky, and so tall that,
when he has done getting up, you think how
conveniently he might be folded together like
a yard measure, his children rise and step
after him like storks. Ten to one his very
baby is taller than it ought to be. Such menas
these transmit family likeness.

The little Lanceyy soon slipped off Mr.
Johnston's knee, and began to talk and
scold at the puppy, because he would not
come and be friendly — in other words, to be
tormented.

The old mother knew better than to leave

him to the tender mercies of a baby-hoy.
She rose, and, taking him in her mouth,
walked slowly away round and round the
table, the child following, and just not overtaking
her* This game was going on when
Mr. Johnston caught sight of a parcel
lying on a chair close to the door. He had
told David Collingwood to ask his wife
whether she had any photograph in her
possession of her first husband — if so, to
bring it.

He now cut open the little package, but
there were no photographs in it, only two
letters — one from a lady, giving an excellent
character to Maria Jane Pearson as a housemaid,
setting forth that she was honest,
sober, and steady. It seemed to have been
preserved as a gratifying testimony of
approval, but did not bear on the present
case. The other letter was from David
Collingwood, and was as follows : —

Sir, — As it ain't in my power to say
what I meant to say when I see you, along of

my feeling so badly about this matter, I
write this to inform you that my wife has
no portraits of her first husband, for he was
very badly marked with small-pox, and
never would be taken, and she says he had
no brothers nor sisters, and his parents are
not living. Herewith you will find her
marriage lines. She has always kept herself
respectable, and do assure me she never did
wrong in her life but in the one thing you
know of. And she humbly begs your pardon.
I am, your obedient humble servant,
^' David Collingwood."

A baby hand was on his knee again. He
looked down ; tears were on the little flushed
cheeks ; the long slow chase had been
useless.

^^Boy did want doggy," he sobbed. Mr.
Johnston felt a sudden yearning, and a
catch in his throat that almost overcame
him. He took up the child, and pressed
him to his breast. For a moment or two
the child and the man wept together He

Soon recovered himself; it was a waste of
emotion to suffer it to get the mastery now ;
there would come a day when he and his
wife would weep together — that was the time
to dread. He must save his courage, all his
powers of consoling, flattering, encouraging,
for that ; the present was only his own distress
— it was nothing.

There was rejoicing in the nursery
upstairs that morning ; the baby Airdd, as he
was called, had come to spend the day. He
made himself perfectly at home; the little
Johnston produced all their toys for him.
'^ What a credit he is to his mother ! " said
the nurse. ^' His clothes quite new, and
almost as handsome as our children's."

David Collingwood, as he led his wife to
the omnibus which was to take them home,
could hardly believe his own good fortune.
The child, 'the encumbrance" that he had
perforce taken with her, and had meant todo
his duty by, had, contrary to all sober
hope, been received into another man's

house, and there he had been told to leave
him. His wife, though confused and
frightened, did not seem to feel any distress
at parting with him.

Is this all ? " he repeated many times to
himself as they went on. '^ Is this over ? "
** Is she truly going to get off scot-free ? "

If so, the sooner he took her away the
better. At the other side of the world he
felt that he should have more chance of
forgetting that which, while he remembered
it, made his love for his young wife more
bitter than sweet to him.

^' Is it over ? " No, it was not quite over.
They got out of the omnibus at their own
cottage door. A hansom cab stood there,
and Mr. Johnston was paying the cabman.
He followed them in. Maria CoUingwood
sank into a chair. Mr. Johnston, not
unnaturally, declined one ; he stood with a
note-book in his hand. ^^ If you've — you've
altered your mind," Maria began, 'i'm
willing, as is my duty, to take back the child."

David Collingwood darted au indignant
look at her, but Mr. Johnston took no
notice of the speech. Various questions were
asked her, and answered; the husband
weighed the effect of her answers as each
was given : "He can make nothing of that ;"
'* He can make little of that ;" "He sees she
speaks the truth there;" "He'll not give
the boy back for that ! "

He^was mean, as he had said, but not base.

The little sister — Mr. Johnston wanted
her address. She was in a place : the
address was given.

"Where was she when your mother
came home with the child ? "

She was in a place then, and till a
month after."

Can you prove that ? "

The matter was gone into. Donald John-stone
hoped then for a few moments, and
David Collingwood feared ; but their respective
feelings were soon reversed, for Maria
did prove it. The sister was in a place as

kitchen-girl at a school, and did not come
home till it broke up for the holidays ; consequently,
she never saw the child till after her
mother had brought him home to Kensington.

'^ Where did Mrs. Leach live ? " Her address
was given. It was asserted that she had
never known there was more than one child
under her roof; consequently, that she could
not have harboured any sort of suspicion
bearing on the case. *^ Where was the girl
who had carried one of the children out ?"
David Collingwood had ascertained that she
was dead. Mr. Johnston stood long pondering
on this matter ; finally he took David
Collingwood with him to the cottage of Mrs.
Leach, and asked a few questions, which abundantly
proved the truth of what Mrs. Airdd
had declared. He therefore said nothing to
excite her astonishment ; but gave her a
present of money and withdrew.

Donald Johnston came back to London in
the course of the morning, and found the nurse
who had lived in his family when the little

Donald was born. She was very comfortably
married, and he agreed with her to take
Master Donald's foster-brother under her
charge for a little while. Mrs. Airdd, he informed
her, had married again, and he
intended to be good to the child. Less could
hardly be said ; and what his own servants
might think of this story, he considered it
best to leave to themselves.

In the course of time, Mrs. Johnston
perfectly recovered, the London season was
just over, and the quietest time of year was
coming on.

The worst, though he did not know it, had
already been endured. His anxiety as to
its effect on her had so wrought on him
that she had discovered it, and a heavy
portion of it was already weighing on her
own heart. It was necessary that she should
now be told, and she was so fully conscious
that a certain something — she knew not what
—was the matter, that when he said she
had something to hear which would disturb

her, she was quite relieved to find that he
now thought her strong enough to know the
worst.

She soon brought him to the point. It
was not his health ; it was nothing in his
profession ; it was no pecuniary loss : but
when she saw his distress, she was sure that
more than half of it was for her, and she did
her very best to bear it well for his sake.
And yet, when the blow fell, it was almost too
much for her. She had all a woman's
horror of doubt. Let her have anything to
endure but doubt ; yet doubt had come into
her house, and, perhaps, for ever was to
reign over her. She, however, took the
misfortune very sweetly and bravely. In
general, the woman bears the small misfortunes
and continued disappointments of life
best, and the man bears best the great ones.
Here the case was reversed : the woman bore
it best, but that was mainly because of the
supreme comfort of her husband's love and
sympathy.

If we consider women whose lot it is to
inspire deep affection, we shall sometimes find
them, not those who can most generously
bestow, hut those who can most graciously
receive. All is offered ; they accept all without
haggling about its possible endurance ; their
trust in affection helps to make it lasting, and
their own comfort in it is so evident as to
call it forth and make it show itself at its
best.

Donald Johnston's wife had a disposition
that longed to repose itself on another.
Her peculiar and almost unconscious tact
made her seem generally in harmony with
her surroundings.

All she said and did, and wore, appeared
to be a part of herself; there was a sweet
directness, a placid oneness about her, which
inspired belief and caused contentment.

'* Why am I so calm, so satisfied, so well
pleased with myself in this woman's presence
?" men might have asked themselves;
but they seldom did, perhaps because her

VOL. I. L

loving, placid nature was seasoned in a very
small degree with the love of admiration.
She had a gracious insight into the feelings
of others, and used it not to show off her own
beauties, but to console them for defects in
themselves.

Many people show us our deficiencies by
the light of their own advantages, but Donald
Johnston's wife showed rather how insignificant
those deficiencies must be since
she who was so complete had never
noticed them,

A sincere and admired woman, her firm
and open preference for her own made her
own for ever satisfied ; yet she always gave
others a notion that she felt she had reason
to trust them, sense to acknowledge their
fine qualities, and leisure to delight in them.

Reverent in mind, and, on the whole, submissive,
she yet was in the somewhat unusual
position of a wife who knows that her husband's
religious life is more developed and
more satisfying than her own.

Master Donald's foster-brother was now
sent for to dine in the nursery again, and
delighted the nurse and her subordinate by
the way in which he made himself at home,
tyrannizing over the little Donald, picking
the grapes out of his fat little hand, and
trotting off with them while he sat on the
floor and helplessly gazed at his nurse.

^'Run after the little boy, then, Master
Donny," cried the nursery-maid; "why, he
ain't near so big as you are ! " But the
little Donald placidly smiled ; either he had
not pluck yet, or he had not sense for contention
; and, in the meantime, the little
Lancy took from him and collected for himself
most of the toys, specially the animals
from a Noah's ark, which he carried off in
his frock, retiring into a corner to examine
them at his leisure.

Mr. Johnston came upstairs soon after

the nursery dinner, and said the little Lanceyy

might come with him and see Mrs. Johnston ;

so the child's pinafore was taken off, and, with

L 2

characteristic fearlessness, he put his hand
in 'gentleman's" hand and was taken down.

Mrs. Johnston was in the dressing-room ;
her husband, having considered the matter,
had decided to spare her all waiting for the
child, all expectation. He opened the door
quietly ; she did not know this little guest
was in the house ; she should guess his
name, or he should tell it her.

She had just sent the nurse down to her
dinner, and was lying on a couch asleep —
the baby in her bassinet beside her.

Fast asleep as it seemed ; yet, the moment
her husband came in with the child in his
arms, she started as if the thought in his
mind had power over her, and, opening her
eyes, she looked at them with quiet, untroubled
gaze. The time she had been
waiting for was manifestly came. She rose,
and slowly, as if drawn on, came to meet
her husband, with her eyes on the little
child, who was occupied with the toys which
he still held in his hand. Neither the husband

nor the wife spoke ; she came close,
laid her hand on the child's little bright
head, and her cheek against his.

'' Lady did kiss Lanceyy," said the child;
then, looking attentively at her, and perhaps
approvingly, he pursed up his rosy mouth
and proffered a kiss in his turn.

'^ Lady must not cry," he next said, almost
with indifference ; then, as if to account for
her tears, he continued, ^' Lady dot a mummy
gone in ship — gone all away."

^^ Does Lanceyy cry for his mummy ? " she
asked the child, who was still embraced
between them.

He shook his head.

*why not? — I feel easier, love, now I
have seen him," she murmured; 'your
children are not like him. — Why not, sweet
baby-boy ? " she repeated.

'Cause boy dot a horse and two doggy."
He opened his hand and displayed this
property. Nothing more likely than that
this infantile account of himself was true.

The animals from the ark had driven all the
mother he knew of clean out of his baby-heart.


'^ He talks remarkably well for tv/o years
and a quarter," she said, and that was
almost an assertion of her opinion, for the
little Donald had only reached the age of
two years, two months and a fortnight.
Mr. Johnston heard it almost with dismay ;
his own opinion was drifting in the other
direction.

She dried her eyes and held out her arms.
^' Will Lanceyy come to lady ? " Of course
he would ; she took him, and sat down with
him in her lap on the couch.

*'I know how this will end," she
exclaimed, holding him to her bosom with
yearning unutterable. Then she burst into
a passion of tears, kissing the little hands and
face, and bemoaning herself and him with
uncontrollable grief. * ' Donald ! how
shall I bear it?"

She was bearing it much better than he

could have expected. He was almost overcome
himself, thinking how cruelly she had
been treated, but he had nothing to say.
He could only be near, standing at the end
of the couch, leaning over her, to feel with
her, and for her.

Then the child spoke, putting his arms
round her neck — '^ Lanceyy loves lady." He
seemed to have some intention of comforting
her in his little mind.

** Estelle ! " remonstrated her husband.

"But I shall know," she exclaimed, "I
shall know in the end. You are making all
possible inquiry ? "

** My bright, particular star ! " was all he
answered ; the tone was full of pity.

"And is nothing found out, Donald,
nothing ?"

It is early days yet. If anything more
can be done, I am on the look-out to doit."


And you find nothing to do at present?"

"No."

"I know how this will end," she repeated.
*' I never will love ny oivn less; he is so
dear to every fibre of my heart."

^* He is most dear to us both."

* But this one has come so near to me
already, and the nearness is such a bitter
pain — such pain. (Oh, you poor little
one !) I know it will end in my so loving
him, from anxiety and doubt, that I shall not
be able to bear him long out of my sight."

'sall shall be as you wish, my Stella,"
said the husband ; but he thought, '' You are
far happier than I, for it will end — I knows it
will — in your loving both the boys as if they
were your own ; whilst I feel already that,
if the shadow of a doubt remains, I shall
not deeply love either."

CHAPTER VII.

The time was a little past the middle of the
century; the "Great Exhibition" had not
long been over ; the Metropolitan Railway
had not yet begun to burrow under London,
encouraging the builders to plant swarms of
suburban villas far out into the fields ; Londoners
paid turnpikes then before they could
drive out for fresh air, and they commonly
contented themselves with a sojourn in the
autumn at the sea-side, or in Scotland,
instead of, as a rule, rushing over and dispersing
themselves about the continent.

But Donald Johnston decided to take his
wife there that autumn, baby, nurse, and all.
First he would establish the children at
Dover ; then he would propose to their mother
that the little Lanceyy — "boy," as he more

frequently called himself — should be sent to
them, and have also the benefit of the
change ; then he would take her away and
reproduce for her their wedding tour.

This had been to Normandy and Brittany,
where they had seen quaint, sweet fashions,
even then on the wane ; beautiful clothes,
which those who have not already seen
never will see ; and peaked and pointed
habitations, so strange and so picturesque,
that nothing but a sojourn in them can make
one believe them to be as convenient as those
of ugly make.

Estelle should see again the apple-gathering,
the great melons, and the purple grapes
drawn into market with homely pomp ; the
brown-faced girls gossiping beside their
beautiful roofed wells, dressed in garments
such as no lady in the finest drawing-room
puts on at present ; creatures like countrified
queens, stepping after their solitary cows,
each one with the spindle in her hand.
He would take her to Coutances, and then

on to Avranches, and there he T\'onld unfold
to her a certain plan.

She fretted much over the doubt, which
at present no investigation availed to solve.
Time had not befriended her : the more she
thought, the more uncertain she became.

Yet he hoped that time might bring them
enlightenment in the end. He would take
her to Avranches, where lived his only sister,
the widow of a general officer, who, from
motives of economy, had settled there, and
did not often come to England.

In his opinion she was one of the most
sensible women to be met with anywhere —
just the kind of creature to be trusted with
a secret— a little too full of theories, perhaps,
almost oppressively intelligent, active
in mind and body, but a very fast friend, and
fond of his wife.

He felt that, if the two boys could be
parted from Estelle for three or four years,
and be under the charge of his sister, it
would be more easy, at the end of that time,

to decide which of them had really the best
claim to be brought up with his name and
with all the prospects of a son. It was
quite probable that, in the course of three
or four years, such a likeness might appear
in one of the boys to some member of
his family as would all but set the matter at
rest.

Nothing could be done if they remained in
London, brought up among his own friends,
and known by name and person to every
servant about him. But if he left them at
Avranches with his sister, among French
servants, who knew nothing about them —
each known by his pet name, and not
addressed by any surname — and if they themselves
knew nothing about their parentage,
there could be no injustice to either in the
choice the parents might eventually make,
even though they should decide not to take
the child first sent home to them.

He was desirous, for his own sake as well
as for theirs, that they should hear of no

doubt ; that would be cruelty to the one not
chosen, causing him almost inevitable discontent
and envy, while the one chosen might
himself become the victim of doubt, and
never be able to enjoy the love of his parents,
or any other of his advantages in peace.

*' We must be their earthly providence,"
he said to his wife, dien he had unfolded
this plan to her; "we must absolutely and
irrevocably decide for them. We must try
fully to make up our minds, and then, whichever
we eventually take, wee must treat altogether
as a son."

And the other, Donald ? "

'' The other ? I think one's best chance
of peace in any doubtful matter is not to do
the least we can, but the most ; we must
give them both the same advantages in all
respects, and so care for, and advance, and
provide for, and love the other — so completely
adopt him, that if we should ever have the
misfortune to find that, after all, we have
made a mistake, we may still feel that there

was but one thing more we could have given
him, and that was our name."

"Then, even in that case, the choice
having once been made, you would keep toit?"


What do you think, my star ? "

It would be a cruel thing on the one
we had taken for our own to dispossess
him."

Yes ; but if we allowed things to stand,
the loss and pain would all be our own ; they
would be nothing to the other. Some wrongs
are done in spite of a great longing after the
right, and such I hold to be irrevocable."

'' I see no promise of rest in any plan.
Perhaps my best chance will be to leave it
altogether to you ; you often talk of casting
our cares upon God. I have tried, but it does
not seem to relieve me of the burden. I
can — I often do cast them upon you, only I
hope—"

"What, Estelle?'^

I hope your sister will not say, as your

mother did when our Httle Irene died, that
it was one of those troubles which was ordained
to work for my good."

*' She was only quoting Scripture."

' When she used to come and pray with
me, and read with me, I felt at last able to
submit ; and I found, as she had said, that
submission could take the worst sting of that
anguish out of my heart. But no one must
talk so to me now. I have not fallen into
the hands of God, but into those of a wicked
woman. This is different."

^'Isit, my wife''

Your sister may say it is a rebuke to me
for having loved this present life, and my
husband, and my children too much, or she
may say it is a warning to me that these
blessings can — oh, how easily ! — be withdrawn.
I will try to bear it as a discipline,
as a punishment ; let her teach me, if she
can, to submit ; but I cannot bear to hear
about blessings in disguise. . My own little
son ; he was the pride of my heart ; and now,

when I liolcl him in my arms, and see the
other playing at my feet, I wonder which
has the best right to me. I know that
nothing can make up to me for the doubt.
I shall never be so happy any more ! "

So she thought ; but she was utterly devoid
of morbid feelings, and quite willing tolet
time do all for her that it could. She
had a sincere desire to be well and happy.
A woman, with any insight into man's nature,
generally knows better than to believe that,
in the long-run, delicacy can be interesting,
and low spirits and sorrow attractive.

She did not aggravate herself with anger
against the nurse. She knew she was to
part with both the boys for years, while a
doubtful experiment was tried. Yet she let
herself be refreshed by the sweet weather,
the rural signs of peace and homely abundance
; and when she drove up to the quaint
abode her sister-in-law had made a home of,
she could be amused with its oddness ; the
tiled floors, numerous clocks, clumsy furniture,

thick crockery ; the charming kitchen,
full of bright pots and pans, so much lighter
and more roomy than the drawing-room ;
the laundry in the roof; its orchard that
stood it instead of a flower-garden, almost
every tree hoary with lichen, and feathery
with mistletoe ; its little fish-pond and fountain,
with a pipe like a quill, and its wooden
arbours, with all their great creaking weathercocks.


And there was one little child, a girl, in
the house — a small, dimpled thing, about six
months younger than the two boys.

That first evening passed ofi*, and both
husband and wife shrank from entering on
the subject of their thoughts. Mrs. Grady,
Charlotte by Christian name, was full of talk
and interest about all manner of things.
She had the disadvantage of being very shortsighted,
and so missed the flashing messages
and expressive communications that passed
between other eyes.

This defect makes many people more in-vol.

I. M

intellectual than they otherwise would be, and
less intelligent, throwing them more on
thought and less on observation. But in
her case it was only a question of wearing
or not wearing her spectacles. When she
had them on, "all the world was print to
her ;" when they were off, her remarks were
frequently more sensible in themselves than
suitable to the occasion.

Politics, church parties, family affairs, the
newest books, the last scientific theories —
nothing came amiss to her, every scrap of
information was welcome.

Mrs. Johnston looked on rather listlessly,
and soon it was evident that her husband
could not make an opening for the matter
that was in their thoughts. He was letting
himself be amused and interested while
waiting for a more convenient season.

When they had retired, she said,—

'* I shall be so much more easy, Donald,
when you have managed to tell her our
story."

But what was I to do ? " he answered.
' I could not suddenly dash into her sentence
with a ' by-the-bye,' as she does herself.
By-the-bye, Charlotte, we don't know
whether one of our children is, in fact ours
or not ! ' "

That would at least astonish her into
silence for a time."

The next morning just the same difficulty !
They were in the midst of a discussion before
they knew that it had begun.

The baby was taken out after breakfast,
by her nurse, into the apple orchard.

'' You hare no servants who speak
English, have you, Charlotte ? " asked Mr.
Johnston, thinking to open the matter.

"No," she answered; 'rand I prefer the
French as servants, on the whole, to the
English. But I like that young Irishwoman,
Estelle, that you have brought
with your baby. There is something sweet
about her that one does not meet with
here. Do you know, I have long noticed
M 2

that, of alL modern people, the Irish suffer
least, and the French most, from the misery
of envy?"

''Do you think so?" said her brother,
only half listening.

"Yes, and hence the Irish chivalry
towards the women of ' the quality,' and the
total absence of any such feeling in a
Frenchman. He, frugal and accumulative,
thinks, ' I am down because you are up.'
The poor Frenchman would rather all were
down than that any should have what he
has not ; but it is the material advantages
of those well off that he envies them ; but
the poor Irishman, wasteful and not covetous,
could not do without something to admire.
One of these two takes in anguish through
his eyes, whenever he casts them on beauty
or riches not his ; the other takes in consolation
through his eyes. He is not wholly
bereaved of grandeur or loveliness if he may
look on them, and he troubles himself little
that they are not his own."

^'When demagogues leave him alone!"
her brother put in.

'' It is singular, though," she continued,
gliding on with scarcely any pause, 'that
though the Irish can do best without education
and culture, they repay it least, they
are least changed by it. Now the English,
of all people, can least do without culture
and education, and repay them most. What
a brute and what a dolt a low Englishman
frequently is ! but a low Irishman is often a
wit, and full of fine feelings."

'marry an Irishman," said the brother j
with a smile, " and speak well of the Irish
ever after."

' Of course ! I always used to say, ' Give
me an Irish lover and a Scotch cousin "

Why an Irish lover ? "

Because he is sure to marry me as
soon as he can, just as a Scotch cousin, if
he gets in anywhere, is sure to do his best to
get me in too."

You want nothing English, then ? "

** Yes, certainly give me an English
housemaid. Let a French woman nurse me
when I am ill, let an English woman clean
me my house, and an Englishman write me
my poetry ! For it is a curious thing," she
went on, ** that sentiment and poetic power
never go together. The French are rich in
sentiment and very poor in poets. How
rich in sentiment the Irish are, and how poor
the English ! We call the Irish talk poetical,
yet Ireland has never produced a poet even
as high as the second order. How far more
than the lion's share England has of all the
poetry written in the English tongue— or, if
you speak of current poetry, you might add,
and in all other tongues.' " Here she
chanced to put on her spectacles, and immediately
came to a full-stop.

'' Well ? " said her brother; but she was
no more to be lured on, when she could see,
than stopped when she could not. His
chance had come.

'' If you will paton your bonnet, Charlotte,"

he said, '^ we will go out about the place.
I have something important — to us — to say
to you."

She rose instantly with the strange sense
of defect and discomfiture that she often felt
when her spectacles showed her other people's
eyes, and thus that she had been at fault
because her own were not better.

It was a difficult story to tell, and at first
she could not be made to believe that all
had been done which could be done.

An resolvable doubt seemed just as unbearable
to her as it had done to the mother.
She sat down on a bench in the apple
orchard with nothing to say and nothing to
propose.

''I do not believe this thing ever was
done," she said hesitatingly at last. ''I
think the nurse's baseness began and ended
when she planted this horrid doubt in your
hearts. She foresaw that it would rid her
of her own child. What could you do but
take him ? "

'but you have told me this," she presently
said, '' because you think I can help
you?"

'' Yes, you can help us — what we want
is to gain time."

He then unfolded his plan. Each of the
little fellows called himself by a pet name.
One went in the nursery by the name of
<' Middy," so called after a favourite 
they had ; the other generally called
himself 'boy."

If they could be taken charge of till they
were five or six years old, and the parents
denied themselves all intercourse with them
during those years, it was not in nature that
the one truly theirs should not show some
strong likeness either to one of his parents
or to some of his brothers and sisters — for
there might well be both by that time — or a
likeness as to voice or even disposition might
show itself ; and, failing that, there was the
other child. He might begin to betray his
parentage ; the Johnston had no likeness

of Airdd, but could never forget his
wife.

An irrevocable choice must be made at the
end of that time ; and when the father and
mother came over to make it, neither child
would have heard anything about his story.
The one selected would soon return their love
and subside into his place with the unquestioning
composure of childhood, and the
other would be equally contented with his
position, having long forgotten all about his
native country and his earliest friends.

Little more than a week after this, Mr.
Johnston was sitting on the sands of a
small French bathing-place, his sister with
him. He had brought over the two tiny
boys, and they were playing at their feet,
while Mrs. 'Grady scanned them eagerly.

' Yours — I mean the one you call ' Middy '
is the most like our family, and like you in
particular," she observed.

*' Yes, we think so''

'rand he is the one whom you brought

up till the nurse herself put it into your
heads that he might not be yours ? "

'* Even so."

*' The other has slightly darker eyelashes
and browner hair than either yours or
Estelle's."

*' Of course we have noticed that."

^' And yet you doubt?"

'' We fancy that ' Boy ' is a little like our
dear child Irene."

*' Estelle says she wants me to dress them
precisely alike, and treat them absolutely
alike."

*' Yes, we have decided on that. We
shall leave photographs behind us. When
they see these in your book, they can be told
to call them father and mother. And we
shall never take these names from either,
but only teach one of them to understand
that he is an adopted child."

The parting with the boys was very bitter
to Mrs. Johnston. She held each to her
heart with yearnings unutterable, though, as

was but natural, only one fretted after herat
all, and that for a very little while.

And when they were brought into the
quaint house near Avranches, it was doubtful
whether either had the intelligence to be
surprised. One was perfectly fearless, and
found out directly that the '' 'stupid mans
and onions could not talk to ' Boy;' " the
other listened to the babble about him with
infantile scorn, and sometimes, baby as he
was, showed himself a true-born Briton by
laughing at it.

But that stage of their life was soon over ;
their French nurse made them understand
her very shortly ; and before they had discovered
that little Charlotte's English was
worse than their French, she was taken away
gone to Ireland to her grandmother, as
they were told. They thought this was a
pity ; her mother, with a touch of bitterness,
thought so too ; but the grandmother had
long urged it, promising to provide for the
Httle Charlotte, and but that the Johnston

had known of lier intended absence, they
would not have proposed their plan.

The poor must do — not what they would,
hut — what they can.

Even if her little Charlotte was left unprovided
for at the grandmother's death, the
mother felt that here was a chance of saving
several hundred pounds for her. Donald
Johnston's payment was to be liberal in
proportion to the importance of the interest
at stake. And, in the meantime, the little
Charlotte cost her mother nothing, and the
two boys were just as happy together when
she was gone.

They had not been a year in France before
they spoke French as well as French children,
which is not saying much. In less than
another year they spoke their English with
a French accent j loved their nurse more
than any living creature, excepting one
another, and had altogether lost the air of
English children, for their clothes were worn
out, and they wore instead the frilled aprons

and baggy trousers of the country ; their hair
was cropped perfectly short, as is there the
mode, and every article they had about them
was equally tasteless and unbecoming.

But their toys were charming.

Their aunt, as they both called her, was
careful to awaken in their infant minds a
certain enthusiasm for England ; they had
many pictures of English scenes in their
nursery. The nurse also did her part ; she
frequently talked to them about the dear
papa and mamma, caused them to kiss the
portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Johnston every
night before they went to bed, and instilled
into them something of the peculiar French
tenderness and sentiment towards a mother.

They both loved this pretty mother, and
they grew on in health and peace till they
were nearly five years old, about which time
it became evident that the Johnston could
not make up their minds to be absent much
longer.

Mrs. 0' Grady had not, for some time past,

founcl it possible to doubt which was her
brother's child, but she loyally forbore to
make the least difference in her treatment of
them, or to convey any hint to her brother.
And now the children where told that dear
father and mother were coming, and this
important news was a good deal connected
in their minds with the growth of their own
hair. It was much too long now, their
nurse said, but English boys wore it so.
They thought it would have been impossible
for father and mother to come and see them
while it had been cropped so short. Their
aunt also had sent to London for complete
suits of children's dress for them. Their
nurse was very gracious as regarded these.
Melanie, the cook, came up to see them
dressed a V Anglais ; she agreed with her that
there was much to be said in favour of the
English style. Certainly, but for these clothes,
the dear father and mother would never have
taken the trouble to come ; it was to be
hoped they would like them.

How slight was the feeling of the children
as to this expected interview I how intense
were the feelings of the parents !

A door opened, and a pretty little boy, who
knew nothing of their arrival, came dancing
into a room where were seated a lady and a
gentleman close together.

In an instant he knew them, and stood
blushing. Then that lady said, —

** Come on, sweet boy ! '' and he advanced
and kissed her hand, and that gentleman
looked at him — oh, so earnestly !

This was the dear mother ; she had tears
in her eyes, and she took him on her knee,
and kissed his little face and head, and
stroked his hair. So did the dear father.

'' Did he know them?"

Oh, yes, and he and Middy had wanted
them to come for a long while. The dear
mother was quite as pretty as he had expected,"
he continued looking up at her. He spoke
in French, and paid her a little French compliment
as naturally as possible. Then he

blushed again with pleasure as she caressed
him, and was glad he had all his best things on.

After a time, his aunt came in, and
quietly took him out of the room.

'^ I should not have known him, he is so
much grown and altered," sighed Mrs. John-stone
; '' but he has made it evident that it
is Middy whom we have not seen."

This is a most lovable, pretty little fellow,"
said the husband.

^^ And not at all unlike our little Irene,"
she answered.

But, in a minute or two, another child,
equally unconscious of what awaited him,
opened the same door, and marched boldly
in. A sudden thrill shook the hearts of both.
The child paused, drew back, and trembled ;
then he put up his arm before his face, and
burst into tears.

What it was that he felt or feared, it would
have been quite past his power to express ;
but the dear mamma was there ; she had
tears in her eyes ; was she going to kiss

Line ? He did not know what to say ; what
should he do ?

He could not look, he was crying so ; and
somebody carried him to her, and put his
arms round her neck, and called him his
dear little son.

** Mamma, I never meant to cry," he presently
said, with all naivete — and mother
was crying too, and so was father — well ! it
was very extraordinary, when he thought he
should have been so glad. i\.nd presently he
was very glad because they were so kind.

They said they had wanted him so much
for such a long time, and he should go to
England — go home and see his dear little
sisters. They said he was just Hke the
others, and there was a baby brother at
home ; he must teach him to play. So Middy
was very happy indeed, as in a child's
paradise he nestled close to the long-lost
mother, and admired his father, and thought
how nice it would be to go to England with
them.

VOL. I. N

It would have been hard to doubt anymore
; the little flaxen-haired fellow was so
like the children at home ; they were so vastly
more drawn to him than to the other, and
yet he too was greatly altered. He was not
such a fine child for his years as when they
had left him. But if they could have doubted,
his own love and agitation would have settled
all. The shy and yet delighted gaze,
his contentment in their arms, the manner in
which he seemed to have thought of them, —
all helped them to a thankful certainty. The
mother had not been without her sorrows.
Since the parting she had lost two more little
girls in infancy, and had longed inexpressibly
to have her boy back again.

Charlotte came in at last ; she still had
him in her arms. There was no mistaking
the father's look of contentment. Charlotte
had her spectacles on, and saw the state of
the case at once.

*' Of course," she exclaimed ; '' how could
it be otherwise ? I am afraid, Middy, father

and mother will be rather shocked when I
tell them that you have forgotten your other
name."

I thought I was Middy," answered the
child.

Of course he did ! Great pains had been
taken to prevent his thinking anything else.

'* But that is a baby-name, my sweet boy !
Don't you know what your father's name
is?"

'eyes, Donald."

'• Well, then, you are Donald too."

N 2

Chapter VIII.

*' I NEVER had any doubt which of the children
was yours," observed Mrs. 0' Grady
the next day.

'rit was the more good of you to say
nothing, then," replied the mother.

'but now I hope you really feel at peace ? "

Yes, at peace ; but, in order to do so, I
must adopt your theory, and believe that
Maria Airdd or her second husband invented
the story of the changing of the children,—
that supposes baseness enough — but how far
easier to do than to effect a real change ! "

And you, Donald ? " asked his sister.

"My dear, I suppose myself to be quite
satisfied which is my child ; but I am not
satisfied to leave the other out of my care
and influence for an hour."

*' It is certainly time Donald was taken
home," observed his sister; '' he is a complete
little Frenchman. And you would not
like to leave Lancy, then, in my charge a
little longer ? "

*' If I had no other reason I should still
think it his right to be brought up as an
Englishman also'

'' Then he must not breathe this air and eat
this diet much longer. Race has not half
so much to do with national character as
people think ! Why, some of the English
families brought up here by English parents
talk like the French, and cannot produce
the peculiarly soft sound of the English ' r,'
they either ring it or slur it over."

^' Companionship, my dear, nothing
more."

But Charlotte would not deny herself
the society of her one child, unless she felt
what she has been saying very strongly,"
said Mr. Johnston.

Donald Johnston looked at his wife.

Tally placid, fair, she was at work on a piece
of knitting, and took her time about it. All
her movements spoke of tranquillity, and she
observed what was going on about her.
Then he looked at his sister, who was netting.
Even the movements of her small ivory-shuttle
had an energetic jerk which seemed
to suit the somewhat eager flash and sparkle
of her clear hazel eyes ; her thoughts were
swift, her words were urgent for release, she
longed to spread her theories, and scarcely
noticed how they were received if she could
but produce them.

*^No, Estelle, companionship is not all ;
your boys have hardly any companions, English
or French, but they do not play half so
boisterously, and they are not half so full of
mischief as they would be if they had been
brought up in equal seclusion on English
soil. The French child is more tame in
early childhood than the English. It is
France that does this, not his race."

*' You really think so?"

Of course I do ; the world is fall of facts
that bear on this point. In many parts of
Germany, the men have a most unfair advantage
over the women. They are better
made, taller in proportion ; they are far
more intellectual, and you must admit,
Donald, that they are handsomer. All this
mainly results from the superior diet of the
men, specially in the towns. Many of them
regularly dine out excellently well, leaving
their women-folk at home to cabbage-soup
and cheap sausages."

"Mean hounds ! " exclaimed Donald John-stone,
laughing.

** Yes, but unless the climate of Germany
had already caused an inferiority in the
women, they would not allow themselves to
be so * put upon.' It is the intense cold
of their winter, together with poor diet,
which dwarfs and deteriorates the women ;
the same cold, with good road, braces the
men. There is no nation in Europe where
the height, strength, and wits of the sexes

are so equal as in France. In fact, I think
the French woman has the best of it ! It
is partly the excellent climate — not hot
enough to enervate, not damp to induce
them to drink — and partly it is the excellent
food. Soil influences air — air influences
food : these together influence manners, and
are more, on the whole, than descent."

'' I shall always feel, Charlotte, that you
have a right to preach to us, and to put
forth as many theories as you please," said
Donald Johnston, when at last she came to
a pause.

*^ Because you feel that there is a great
deal in what I say ?" she inquired.

Then she put on her spectacles, and
caught a smile, half amused, half tender,
flitting over * her sister-in-law's face. Her
brother was openly laughing at her.

"Not at all," he replied, "but because
you are, as you always have been, the best of
sisters and the most staunch of friends. You
can understand people ; you are willing, and

able too, to help them in their own way."
Then, observing that she was a little touchy
and not at all pleased, he quietly stepped out
over the low window, and left her to his
wife, for he knew that it would be difficult
for him to set matters straight again.

The two little fellows were very docile
children, and less independent than English
boys of their age.

donald," as Mrs. 0' Grady was now careful
to call him, 'donald has fewest faults,
but he is the least interesting. Lancy is
a very endearing child."

Has he any special fault ? " asked Mrs.
Johnston.

'well," she answered, "I hardly know
what to say about that."

Mrs. Johnston looked up a little surprised
; her sister-in-law appeared to speak
with a certain caution. "He is a very endearing
little fellow," she repeated.

' But if he has any special childish fault,
I ought to know it, Charlotte."

* Yes, my dear. Well, I must be very careful
not to make a mountain of a mole-hill,
and you must try, if I tell you what has
occurred, not to think too much of it. He
was but a baby, Estelle, when he first did it."

'' Did what, Charlotte ? "

'but I have taken great pains not to
make light of it, and also, I could not let
you know, because it is a fault so rare in our
rank of life, that it would have appeared to
be a telling piece of evidence against him in
your mind. It would have diminished his
chance."

Estelle coloured with anxiety.

^^ The fact is, he has several times taken
little articles that were not his own, and appropriated
them. They were things of no
great value. Can this be hereditary ? Were
the father and mother honest ? "

*^ I cannot tell. But what a fault, Charlotte
! Does little Donald know ? "

Yes, but you need not be afraid for him.
Lanceyy was scarcely more than three years

old when, walking home from the town one day
with his bonne, a minute toy was found in his
hand that he could give no account of. They
had been into several shops, but I never supposed
that he had taken it. I thought some
child must have dropped it, and that he had
picked it up on the road. But, a few weeks
after, I was in the market, bargaining for
some oranges. I saw Lanceyy, who was with
me, looking red and roguish, and was very
much vexed when I found that he had
snatched up an orange, and evidently meant
to carry it off. The woman, with nods and
winks, pointed this out to me ; she evidently
regarded it as a joke. I told her how
wrong she was to laugh at him, made
him give it back, and for several days, in
order to impress his fault on his little mind,
I deprived him of his usual dessert, though
the oranges were always on the table."

'^ This was two years ago ? "

*eyes."

'' Then I am afraid it is not all."

It was nearly all that I know of till
last Christmas, when Donald sent over a box
with some English school-books, and a
number of little presents for the boys ; among
these were two silver medals. Middy lost his
almost at once, and there were great searchings
for it. Lanceyy helped to look, but it could
not be found ; then, one night after they were
both asleep, la bonne was turning out the
pockets of their little coats for the wash, and
the two medals rolled out of Lanceyy' s coat.
One had been tucked into the lining. Poor
little fellow ! when I took him alone into my
room the next morning, and showed them to
him without saying a word, he wept piteously.
And, Estelle, I believe he is cured. It was
very touching to see the distress of both the
little fellows when I made Lancy give back
the medal and confess to Donald that he had
taken it. Donald is much the most affectionate
of the two, and when Lanceyy saw how
much he was shocked and how sorry he was
for him, he seemed to think all the more of

his fault himself. I did all I could to deepen
the impression, to show them the sin of
stealing, and the punishment too. For
several days they were both very triste.
Then Lanceyy said to me, ' When Middy says
his prayers to-night, he's going to ask God
to forgive me.' I could do no less than say
I was sure God would forgive him. But I
have not let the matter drop ; and you
must be on the watch, Estelle, to help the
poor little fellow against himself." And so,
with all tenderness, the childish fault was
told, everything that watchful love could
do being extended to Lancy afterwards, and
to all appearance he was cured, and as a
rule, was a better boy than his foster-brother.
The two little Frenchmen were brought
back to their native isle. At first, they took
it amiss that there was no soup at the
nursery breakfast, but then the nurse never
expected to have hold of their hands when
they walked out. And the dogs did not
understand them; they thought this must

be on purpose ; but, on the other hand, they
were allowed — indeed, they were encouraged
to climb the trees, and the cher yere had
given them some spades and a wheelbarrow.
There were no drums, swords, and shrill
French pipes to parade the garden with, but
these spades were better than nothing. The
cher pere said they might dig as deep as they
liked with them.

^' But the clay would stain their new coats."
'' Oh, that could not be helped ! "
*' Might they dig down to the middle of
the World, then ? "

'^ Certainly, if they could."
They began to think England was a nice
place to live in, and after a short sojourn in
it contrived to make as much noise, and do
as much mischief as any other two little
urchins breathing, for they were in the
country now. The cher pere had a rambling,
homely old house in the country, and there
'they gradually mastered English, learning it
from the little sisters, though they continued.

to the great scandal of the servants, to
jabber French, and tutoi/er one another when
they were together.

Childhood is long to the child, and his
growth is slow, though to his parents he
appears to " shoot up."

Donald and Lanceyy shot up, and neither
of them showing the slightest taste for any
branch of learning whatever, they gave their
governess a great deal of trouble.

The nurse said there never were two such
young Turks. That was partly because,
being of the same age and size, whatever
piece of mischief attracted one, the other
was always ready to help him in. Then the
little girls were always trying to imitate
them. It made them so rude 'ras never
was." As to the nursery children, specially
Master Freddy, who would have been as good
as gold but for them, they took delight in
leading him astray, and had taught him to
speak French too, on purpose that she might
not understand what they said to him.

Master Freddy kept his seventh birthday
without having had any broken bones
to rue, which was wonderful considering
the diligence with which he had studied
the manners and actions of his two brothers,
as they were always called. But, about this
time, they were sent off rather suddenly to
school, it being at last allowed by governess,
nurse, and even mother, that they were past
feminine management.

Mrs. Johnston was excessively fond of
them both.

None of the anguish of doubt remained.
Her boy was her own, and he was intensely
fond of her ; yet towards Lanceyy she felt a
never satisfied yearning. She was rather
more indulgent to him than to Donald, as
if she could never forget her period of uncertainty
; and if there was a soft place in
Lanceyy' s heart— which is doubtful, for little
boys are often hard-hearted mortals — it was
probably reserved for her. It was certainly
to her that he always complained when he

had any grievance against the nurse, and in
her arms that he cried when the governess
punished him for any grave delinquency by
making him stop in doors on a half-hoHday.

Lanceyy remembered long after he went to
school (that is to say for nearly six weeks)
how dear mother had talked to him when he
was in his little bed the night before he
went. She kissed him a great many times,
and she cried, and he promised he would be
so good, and never make her unhappy by
doing naughty things. And then she talked
to Donald. And Donald declared that he
was never going to get into any mischief
any more ; he would promise her that he
never would, and he would always say his
prayers ; and he would never fight with the
other boys — at least he wouldn't if he could
help it ; and certainly he would never tell a
lie whether he could help it or not.

The house in Upper Harley Street was a
far more comfortable abode when they were
gone, and they saw very little of it for

VOL. I. o

several years to come, their holidays always
taking place when the family was in the
country.

As to their entrance on school life it was
much like that of other little boys. It
was rather a large preparatory school to
which Mr. Johnston took his son and his
adopted son, both the little fellows chubby,
brave, according to their years, truthful, and
idle. They had a box of cakes and other
prog with them. He knew better than they
did what would become of it. They had also
plenty of money. He did not, of course,
expect that they could have much to do with
the spending of it, but he found out two of
the bigger boys, whose fathers he was acquainted
with, gave each a handsome tip,
turned his fledgelings over to them, and left
them, feeling the parting, on the whole, more
than they did.

Under the auspices of these their new-friends,
the two little boys, when their own
prog had been consumed, were privileged to

put their money into a common purse, which
happened just then to he nearly empty ; a
great deal more prog, some of it very unwholesome,
was then bought and consumed,
after which the school sat in judgment on
the new boys, kicked some of their caps
round the playground, and ordered them
never to wear them any more ; tore up some
of their books as being only fit for the
nursery, and then decided that such a name
as Donald Johnston was not to be borne.
There had been another boy whose name was
so spelt, but he called it Johnson, why
couldn't this fellow do the same. Yes, it
was a troublesome name to pronounce — not
really long, of course — but it sounded long.
It was an uppish name ; they were sure he
was proud of it. Half of it was quite enough
for any fellow ; from henceforth he should be
called Don John.

Don John accepted the verdict, and took
it in good part. His father had impressed
on both the boys that they must never be


'' cheeky," or it would be the worse for them.
He thought when they next decreed that
Lanceyy should be called Sir Lanceyylot, that
they were rather inconsistent, but he did not
take the liberty to say so, and the two little
fellows made their way pretty well on the
whole, seldom getting into trouble, except by
a too ardent championship of one another.
To learn how to disguise this, their only deep
affection, was their first lesson in duplicity.

Always to take one another's part, right
or wrong, when they dared, was their natural
instinct ; their fealty and devotion was far
stronger than that felt by most true brothers,
they were never known to quarrel. They
were always side by side in their class, because
Lanceyy would not learn as fast as he
might have done, lest he should outstrip
Don John, and get into a higher form ; and
they Vere always together in their play, because
Don John did not care to outdo
Lanceyy, and have to be with stronger boys
instead"%f with him.

But the longing for companionship, a
certain camaraderie as they would have
called it, was not Don John's only reason
for keeping close to Lanceyy. For a long
while the childish fault had been almost forgotten
; if ever alluded to, it was by Lanceyy
himself ; but when the boys were twelve years
old, and had just returned to school after the
Easter holidays, Don John showed symptoms
of illness, and was seized upon and sent
home again forthwith.

He had the measles, and was away for
nearly six weeks. There never was much the
matter with him, and he returned ; but in a
day or two a very slight something, he hardly
knew what it was, seemed to let him know
that Lanceyy was watched, and that he knew
it.

Lanceyy did not meet his eye ; that alone
was strange.

An opinion seemed to be floating in the
air that it was better not to leave things
about. It was hardly expressed, but it was

acted on, and the first hint he saw of such
action drove the blood to Don John's heart ;
he remembered the medal.

The next day the two boys were alone
together in a class-room-for one minute.
Don John looked at Lanceyy, and putting
his head down on the high desk, whispered
with a long sigh that was almost a sob, —

'^ They don't /(;7zon' anything against you,
do they, Lanceyy ? "

No," answered the other little fellow ina
frightened whisper, and feigning to be busy
with his dictionary. 'don't seem to be
talking to me. They only suspect."

Lanceyy's guilt was thus taken for granted,
and confessed at once.

A boy, dashing into the class-room, called
them out to cricket.

'where are the things, then?" sobbed
Don John again. " Can't they be found ? "

I've buried them," replied Lanceyy, and
they darted out together, pretending to be
eager for the game.

As the two passing one another were for
an instant apart from the rest, Don John
cried out, —

'where?"

You can't get them out," repel Lance,
as after an interval they passed each
other again. '' I buried them in the garden,
and you know the door is almost always
locked."

Say whereabouts it was," answered
Don John ? But the two did not meet anymore
till the game was over.

*' What do you want to get them out for ? "
asked Lanceyy, as crest-fallen and sad they
left the cricket-field together.

** Because I know one of them is Mars-den's
Watch. You always said last half
that it was a far better watch than either of
ours. He never will rest till he gets it, or
till they find you out."

He spoke in French, using the familiar
*'tu." He was not angry with him, and
the other was less ashamed than afraid.

*' He only suspects," repeated Lanceyy,
sick at heart, and already feeling the truth
of those words. *^ The wages of sin are
hard."

** And I took some money too — Oh, Don,
how could I do it ? "

You might have known I should have
plenty when I came back. Why couldn't
you wait ? "

*' I don't know. I took two sovereigns,
one was an Australian sovereign. He left
them on his locker, and when he was telling
the boys that it was gone, he said he knew
that was not a safe place to have put it on,
and he looked at me.

^ * Then we must get back that very sovereign, ' '
said Don John ; '^ one of mine will not do."

Lanceyy said no, they only suspected him,
and now he knew the misery that came of
taking things he should never do it anymore.
He then explained exactly where he
had buried the watch and the two sovereigns.
On the head master's birthday they

always had a holiday, and were allowed to
range all over the place. While he was
walking about in the garden on that day,
miserable on account of what Marsden had
just said, he found that the other boys had
fallen back from him, and then dispersed
themselves ; he was quite alone. He hastily
pushed a hole in some loose earth, close to
a melon-frame, by which he was standing,
dropped in the watch and the money, and
with his foot covered them just as some boys
drew near. It was five days since this had
occurred, and the first shower would probably
uncover this property again. In the
evening of that very day Don John had
come back with lots of prog, lots of money.
"And then," said Lanceyy, ''I wished I
hadn't done it."

Don John burst out with, —

If you were found out, you would be — "
he stopped awestruck.

"I know," said Lanceyy, 'rand father

would be sent for — what shall I do —
and mother would know too."

*^ It was wicked," answered Don John
** I won't go to sleep all night thinking what
we can do. It was wicked ; it was horse
than being a cad."

Yes, Lanceyy felt that it was worse than
being a cad. Human language could go no
further; they had both, as it were, made their
confession, and their minds for the moment
were a little relieved.

CIIAPTEK IX.

The morning after this conversation two
remarkable things occurred.

There were four other boys in the dormitory
where Don John slept ; these were
Lanceyy, Marsden, and two younger fellows.

When they began to get up, Don John
complained that his left arm hurt him horribly.
It was very much swollen, and he
could not dress himself.

The weather was hot, the boys had been
out rather late the previous evening in the
playing-field. Don John was a great climber,
he confessed to having had a fall ; he must
have sprained it then, Marsden said. He
seemed to have no opinion to give on the
matter.

His room-mates gave him a good deal of

awkward help, which hurt him very much ;
but when they found that his jacket could
not be put on, they went and fetched their
Dame, and she took him away.

Don John asked if Lanceyy might come
too.

^* Oh, not by no means; he was better
by half by himself."

So she bore him off to a little study set
apart for such contingencies as hurts and
accidents which were distinct from illness,
and there she much consoled him for his
pain by giving him a little pot of hot tea all
to himself, two eggs, and a plate of buttered
toast. He felt much better after this, but he
wanted Lanceyy.

Presently the head-master came in, and
with him a surgeon.

'^ How had he managed to hurt himself
so much ? "

^' He had been climbing a tree, and he
could not get down, so he sprang from the
end of a bough, and fell on his arm."

Then it did not hurt him much at
first ? "

No, it felt quite numb."

Neither asked when this had taken place ;
that it had been just before going to bed the
night before was taken for granted.

Yet the surgeon did testify a little surprise.


'^ It's extraordinary what boys will sleep
through," he remarked.

*' You should have mentioned it last night ;
my boy," said the master kindly. " Why
didn't you?"

Don John said nothing, but he turned
pale.

^^ It gives you a good deal of pain, doesn't
it ? " he proceeded.

'* It didn't, sir, until I began to talk about
it," answered the boy.

In fact he could not bear the pain and the
fear of detection together; he began to
tremble visibly.

But he had much worse pain to bear

before the surgeon had done with him, for it
was found that his wrist was badly sprained,
and that the small bone of the upper arm
was broken.

Soon after this the other remarkable thing-occurred.


At twelve o'clock, when the boys came out
of school, their Dame asked to see Marsden.

^* Master Marsden, you're mighty careless
of your things," she exclaimed, when he
and some of the other boys came running
up. ^^Iwa^just a having your dormitory
cleaned out, and when we moved the box
atop of your locker, look here — if there wasn't
your watch and the two sovereigns behind it
that you've been making a work about."

Marsden took these things and blushed ashe
had never blushed in his life before ;
what to do he did not know ; but Lanceyy
just then passing by and looking as usual
crestfallen and miserable, he obeyed a good
impulse, —

**, I say, Sir Lancelot," he exclaimed.

'look here, I must be an uncommon stupid
ass ! "

Lanceyy looked with all his might, there
was the Australian sovereign, and there ^^ as
the watch and the other sovereign.

'' The were found at the back of my
box ! " proceeded Marsden. '^ I could have
declared I had looked there, but it seems I
didn't."

A friendly boy at that instant stepped up,
and stared him full in the face.

*' Hold your tongue," he whispered, "we
were mistaken; don't /c'^ 02(^ that we suspected
him."

They were found at the back of my box,"
repeated Marsden.

"Oh, were they," said Lanceyy, 'well
I'm glad you've got them again," moderate
and quiet words, but his gratitude was deep ;
he was reprieved.

Of course it's nothing to you," said the
blundering Marsden, *' but I thought you'd
like to know."

Several other boys in an equally blundering
spirit betrayed their former suspicions
by making like speeches, and showing a
sudden desire to play with Lanceyy.

Nobody but Don John, he was sure, could
have done this — but how ?

This was how ; but Lanceyy did not know
it till some time afterwards.

The boys went to bed as usual, and the
others — even poor Lanceyy — soon fell asleep.
Don John then began to carry out the
hardest part of his projected task; this was
to keep himself awake till the dead time of
the night, for he well knew that if he once
went to sleep he should not wake till he
was called in the morning.

He sat upright in his little bed and cogitated.
There were three ways of getting
into the garden ; and once in there were
several ways out, but they were all difficult.

It was well-known that to get in otherwise
than by the door, you must go through the
kitchen, which involved a long tramp down

dark passages, and a great risk of making a
noise. Or if you did not go that way you
must descend the principal staircase (which
had a nasty trick of creaking), and go past
the head-master's own bedroom door; or,
finally, you might creep along the corridor
and descend by the washhouse roof. This,
in hot weather, when the corridor window
was wide open, was by far the shortest and
easiest way, but then, unless the garden-door,
which was always locked inside had the key
in it, how should he get out and get back
again ? He could not come through the
kitchen, the bar would be up ; and that he
could only remove on the other side. He
could jump down from the washhouse roof, but
he could not get up to it again without a short
ladder, which would betray him. Even if he
could surmount that difficulty it was doubtful
whether he should not make more clatter
in creeping up the tiles than in creeping down.
Therefore, if the garden door was locked,
he would have to climb to the top of the

VOL. I. P

high garden wall, by the branches of the
trained fruit-trees upon it, and creep along
the top of the wall till he reached a certain
tree whose branches hung out over it, from
one of these he must spring, or drop himself
down as well as he could. He would then
be in the playground. To break a pane of
glass, and so undo the fastening of a window,
push up the sash, get in, shut it down again,
and softly come upstairs to his little chamber ;
all these things had to be done successfully,
if Lanceyy was to be saved.

And if he himself was found out, what
would happen ?

'* Why, if he had the watch and the two
sovereigns upon him, it would appear that he
was the thief, and, moreover, that he had
committed the high misdemeanour of getting
out at night, perhaps to perpetrate more
thefts. Certainly for no possible good purpose.
Perhaps it would end in his being
expelled; and mother — " Here Don John
choked a little.

^' But then if he did not do it, Lanceyy in
the end was sure to be found out, then lie
would be expelled. And father — " Here he
choked again. ^' Well it's no use fuuMug
or arguing," said Don John to himself, ^' because
you know it's going to be done, and
you're going to do it."

It was almost like a nightmare when he
thought of it afterwards, but he certainly enjoyed
the deed while it was doing.

To slip out of bed, listen all breathless,
and watch his room-mates, while the clock
in the corridor, the wheezing old clock, swung
its clumsy pendulum, this was the only difficult
thing he really had to do. It was the
beginning ; his own assurance to himself
that the daring thing was to be attempted.

But a stealthy exultation in the strangeness
of the adventure was damped by that obtrusive
tick. The old clock was disagreeably
wide awake ; it seemed quite vicious enough
to run down just at the decisive moment, and
wake the second master, who might — whop
2

naturally would think a boy must be at that
moment climbing down by the washhouse
roof into the garden.

It seemed equally natural that he should
look out, and catch the boy.

No, that clock must be stopped at all risks.
He stole out of the open door and along the
bare corridor, full of dim moonlight and confused
sounds of snoring.

A childish figure in a long white nightgown
; he stopped before the clock, and
gently opening its door, seized the great
pendulum in his hand, and with one long
gasping click the clock stopped. Then was
his real danger ; the cessation of a noise so
often wakes people, yet nobody did wake,
not even the master.

What a wicked boy he was ! he felt as if
he had choked off the incorruptible witness.
He held the pendulum squeezed hard in his
hand for two or three minutes, then stole
back to his room and put on his clothes.

Often in his dreams it all came back to

him afterwards ; how he had tied his sappers
together, and slung them round his neck, and
how, as he got out, there was a white cat on
the washhouse roof. In the dim light, her
eyes gleamed on him strangely. He all but
slipped — yet no — he reached the eave, and
jumped down safely into the soft mould underneath.
Then he stooped and put on his
slippers, and effaced the marks of his feet in
the mould.

The cat had jumped down after him, and
was looking on. Here he was in the garden
at one o'clock in the morning, and the moon
was fast going down.

How beautiful those tall white lilies were.
They enjoyed themselves in secret all through
the night, gave out their scent, drank in the
dew, and never let men and women find out
that the night-time was their life and their
day. The great evening primroses, too, white
and yellow, were in their glory, and it seemed
as if they also were keeping it secret, and
still. The cat was very jealous of his being

out to see it all. It would be very unlucky
for cats if people in a body should discover
how much more jolly it was to be out in the
warm golden mist of moonlight, when all
was so fresh and sweet, than tucked up in
their heated bedrooms under the low ceiling
that shut out the stars.

Don John shared in the still stealthy
delight of the flowers ; he knew all was easy
till he had to get into the house again, and
he put off thinking about that till the last
moment. But the moon was fast southing ;
it behoved him to be quick, unless he meant
to stay out till day dawned. So with a beating
heart he went softly across the dewy lawn
among the wet flowers, the cat following him
every step of the way, and looking on, while
he secured the plunder, while he effaced the
traces of his search, while he climbed the
wall by means of the spread out branches of
a fig-tree, and while he softly crept along
the top.

Oh, to be a cat for two minutes then ; for

cats never slip, and cats can see even under
the branches in the dimness of a summer
night !

Don John sprang into the tree successfully,
but whether he mistook a branch for a
shadow, or whether the white cat, springing
after, startled him, he never knew, but the
next instant he was on the grass at the foot
of this tree, and his arm was under him.

He was on the right side of the wall, in
the playground, that was his first thought.

He felt as if he had no arm, it was so perfectly
numb. He was very cold, but presently
thinking of himself, far more as a
sneak than a hero, he got up and crept slowly
towards the house.

' I'm glad I'm not obliged to be a burglar,
too," he said to himself, as he drew near,
for a window was partly open, and he could
get in without breaking a pane.

He had got the watch and the two
sovereigns, but now the deed was done there
seemed to be no glory in it, that was perhaps

because he had hurt himself. He stole upto
his little bed, thinking what a bad boy
he had been to have thought the first part
of the adventure such rare fun. But now
neither he nor Lanceyy would be expelled,
that was something. It was as much as they
could expect, and they must make the best
of it.

It always seemed to him afterwards as if
the cat understood the whole matter better
than Lanceyy did. Have cats a natural sympathy
with wickedness ? probably they have,
for the cat was the fast friend of Don John
from that day forward ; and when his * ^ dame "
came in would march in after her, gravely
inspect his sling, and smell at his nice
savoury dinner.

And Lanceyyyy ? Why, Lanceyyyy at first was
very much relieved, and also very sorry that
Don John was hurt, but both the boys felt, —
one as much as the other, that to have a
broken arm, was as nothing compared with
being expelled, and it did not signify to

either, which had the broken arm so much
as it should have done. Father and mother
now would never know. What real gratitude
Lanceyy felt was mainly on that account.
Don John loved them far more keenly than
Lanceyy did, and this was but natural, but
Lanceyy loved no one better. They were his
all, and Don John's brothers and sisters and
home were his too. The boys never set
themselves one above the other, everything
about them appeared to point plainly to their
being equals, and Httle as Lanceyy had been
told about his parentage, it satisfied him,
and he asked no questions.

He had always known that he was a
dear adopted son, that his father's name
was the same as his own, that he had died
before his child's birth, and that his mother
had married again and gone to Australia.

It was Don John who asked awkward
questions, Lanceyy did not care ; what did it
signify who gave him all he wanted so long
as it was given ? No such thought had

shaped itself distinctly in his young mind,
thought was lying dormant as yet, and the
love that cherished him and the well-being
in which he lived kept it from expansion.

Once Don John asked his mother why
Lanceyy's mother never wrote to him, and
she answered that mothers did not all love
their children as much as she did. The boy
looked up at her with clear blue eyes full of
surprise. It had seemed as natural that a
mother should love as that a flame should
burn.

His arm was just well when she said this
unexpected thing. She had a very long
string of amber beads round her neck; he
loved to rub the larger ones against the sleeve
of his jacket, and make little bits of paper
stick to them. He always remembered
afterwards how she looked down upon him
as he sat by her, when he asked what was
the use to any fellow of having a mother if
she did not love him, and she moved his thick
flaxen hair from his forehead while he made

another little bit of paper leap to the beads,
and then he put his arm round her waist
and leaned his head against her shoulder to
cogitate. She was never in a hurry, this sweet
comfortable mother. She always had time
to listen to every grievance about hard
lessons, and childish scrapes. She even
sympathized when tops would not spin.
She generally knew when her children
wanted to say something to her, and would
wait till it came. She was expecting something
about Lanceyy now, and hoped the
question might be easy to answer, but though
Don John was thinking about Lanceyy, it
concerned what he himself had lately done
for him, and when he spoke at last she was
a good deal surprised.

Oh, mother," he said, '' you don't know
how wicked I often feel."

She looked down on him, but said nothing,
and he went on.

*rand I think Mr. Viser is a very odd
man — particularly for a clergyman."

'what have those two things to do with
one another, my dear boy," she answered.


** Oh, a great deal," answered Don John.
'' But you know, mother, you are the soul of
honour."

'eyes," she repeated, without smiling,
I am the soul of honour."

She meant that when things were confided
to her by her children she always kept them
strictly to herself. Sometimes the confidence
related to quarrels, and then she
generally managed to persuade the penitent
to make them up, or they concerned misdoings,
were in the nature of confessions, and
she was to tell their father, and persuade
him to forgive. They all had a very wholesome
fear of their father.

And you never think of telling."

Of course not ! "

I listened to his sermon yesterday — I
never used to listen, but I did, and — well,
if it's of no use punishing one's self, what is of

use, you know fathers, and mothers, and
masters are always punishing boys."

'' Yes, they are."

*^ To make them better."

** Yes."

^' But if I had done something horrid —
toil a good many Hes, for instance — and
invented a story, which coukl not be confessed
to father so that he could punish me,
I think it extremely mean of Mr. Yiser to
make out that it's of no use my punishing
myself instead."

The mother did not startle her penitent
by asking, '' Have you told a great many
lies?" She only said, 'sand have you
punished yourself, my boy ? "

"Yes, mother," he answered, "and here
is the punishment. I did it up more than a
week ago, when first we came home for the
holidays. It almost choked me when father
and you were so pleased with my papers.
And you know you talked about trusting
me when I was out of your sight, and

feeling sure I should be a good honourable
boy. Oh, you know what you said." He
produced a small brown-paper parcel. *' I
meant — meant at first to dig a very deep
hole and bury it — but I am afraid I might
afterwards not be able to help digging
it up again, for that mouse really is such
a—"

He paused, and still she did not smile or
hurry the penitent, whose hand trembled a
little, and who looked rather red and irate,
and he presently went on, —

*' So whatever Mr. Viser says, you are to
take the parcel, mother, and lock it up— and
mind, I am never to have it any more."

<«Yery well, my boy," she answered, not
at all as if she was surprised, and asked
calmly, " What is there in it ? "

*« There's all my money that grandmother
sent, and my mechanical mouse that runs
round and round when it is wound up, and
several other things that I like. Now I
have punished myself! "

*^ Yes. Can you repeat Mr. Yiser's text
tome?"

^^No, not all of it''

*' Get me a Bible."

Don John fetched a Bible, his wrong
against the vicar did not seem less present
to him when he had read the verses in
question, the beautiful and well-known verses
beginning ^^ Wherewith shall I come before
the Lord," and ending, 'shear ye the Eod,
and who hath appointed it."

*you see it is all in the Bible," she
observed ; ^' and what did he say it meant,
but that we must not think we can please
or propitiate God by depriving ourselves of
our goods, or even of any earthly thing,
though we love it best. Not to punish yourself,
but to confess your sin and forsake it, is
the way to obtain forgiveness."

*^ Yes, but I did say that I could not confess
this ; that would be worse than doing it.
cannot tell the real thing, the thing of consequence,
but I can tell you a Httle more,
and you will be sorry."

'* Yes, I shall — tell me as much as you
can."

'what I said to father when he questioned
me about how I broke my arm, and
when I did it, was all a lie — all my own invention.
I made it up — I am in such a rage
sometimes after I go to bed and think about
it, that I can hardly help crying. I wish
father could punish me for it, and then forgive
me, and I should be all right then."

*^ But that cannot be unless you confess
your fault to him."

^' Oh, mother, I did tell you I could not
confess it. So if punishing myself won't
do, I suppose it's my duty to be miserable
about it, when I don't forget it," he added
with boyish naivete.

*^I dare say Lanceyy knows," she next
said, and when he made no answer, *' Don't
you think he would be glad if you confessed
? " she asked.

*why, of course not, mother," the boy
exclaimed, and then she never doubted that

she should hear the whole ; but no, Don
John was very loving, very penitent, yet he
stuck to it, that he must not tell her anything
more, though when she asked him afterwards
whether he had at least confessed his
fault to God, he answered, *' Oh, yes," with
a fearlessness that surprised her. She was
surprised both that he should have done so
and that he should think nothing of telling
her that he had. Like most other boys
he was in general extremely shy of all such
subjects.

She urged him again to confess his fault
to her, and he paused, as if considering the
matter. *ras God knows everything," he
began, and then broke off.

*' Yes, my dear boy ? "

*^ And Mr. Viser doesn't, I shall not take'
back my mouse." Here being hard put toit
not to smile, she held her peace.

*when boys are at school," he went on
with a certain quaint simplicity that was
natural to him. '' When boys are at school,

VOL. I. Q

it's not at all easy to think about God. But
He knows what I mean. Boys are not so
good, mother, as you suppose. If you knew
everything just as God does, without my
telling you, I should be very glad."

This was all his confidence — childhood
was nearly over, not precisely even in that
fashion could he ever talk to her again.

It was only Lanceyy who seemed never to
have anything to hide. Seemed — he was
such a sweet little fellow, so ready to confessa
fault, so apparently open ; Donald John-stone
and his wife always felt themselves
repaid for the kindness and the love they
had shown him, and the family circle appeared
to be incomplete unless he was in it.
But of course Mrs. Johnston never asked
him anything about Don John, how he broke
his arm, and why he was obliged to tell lies
to his father about it. She would not have
been *the soul of honour" if she had done
such a thing as that.

CHAPTER X.

The family circle, as has been explained,
never seemed perfect unless Lanceyy was in
it, and this was more true than ever when,
after another year, the two boys came home
healthy, cheerful, and well-grown.

Lanceyy had not got himself into a scrape
since the memorable stealing of the watch,
and consequently both the boys were happier.

A somewhat singular circle it was. The
house in Upper Harley Street had been let.
The long rambling homestead in the country
suited the mistress and the children far
better. Her easy household ways often surprised
Mr. Viser, her children inherited her
placid temper and her unruffled ease.

They were all ^' characters " already,
observed with amusement by the neighbours,
Q 2

both rich and poor; at home everywhere,
and perfectly independent.

Mr. Yiser and his wife, Lady Louisa, had
a large, young family, but none of their children,
though taken great care of, showed half
the strength and spirit of the Johnston.

Sometimes Lady Louisa came to call on
Mrs. Johnston, and made quiet observations
on the manners and fashions of that gentlewoman,
but it did not occur to her that these
had anything to do with the sparkling eyes
and high health of the children.

Once she had known Mrs. Johnston to
take up a parasol, when a very great noise of
shouting and laughter almost deafened them,
as they sat in the drawing-room. She went
out into the garden. Lady Louisa accompanied
her ; the boys and girls were easily found by
the said noise.

Were they told to make less ? not at all ;
they were merely admonished to go a little
further off.

The little Misers never shouted ; they never

went out of doors without a nurse or a
governess ; they wore gloves, and generally
had parasols.

A buttoned glove ! handcuffs are hardly
more powerful to restrain. Such an article
was never put on to the little John-stone
girls, unless when they went out
in the close carriage to pay calls with
their mother, then they had also the regulation
quantity of ribbon and feathers, and
behaved accordingly.

The groom in that establishment acted as
an under-gardener ; he also went out on
errands occasionally, but when Mrs. John-stone
ordered the pony-carriage, she never
troubled herself to inquire whether he was at
home or not. Why ? The boys of course
could bring the pony up from the meadow,
run out the little carriage, and harness the
docile beast as well as he could. And, to
be plain with the reader (at the same time
hoping not to shock or displease), the girls
could too.

When Mrs. Johnston heard the wheels of
the pony carriage, as it was brought round to
the front door, she would step forth equipped
for the occasion, and serene as usual. In
holiday time she always found one of the
two boys ready to drive her ; he would have
brushed himself up a little, and put on a
tolerably good hat.

The carriage had a moderately comfortable
seat in front, the back of it was somewhat
like an open square box. There was a moveable
bench-like seat in it, under which old
Die was generally lying, for she liked the air.'
The white cat was not unfrequently there
also (she had followed Don John from
school).

'* So long as you keep yourself to yourself,"
Don John would say, ** there's no objection
to your seeing the country." A third
passenger would be Peterkin — old Die's
grandson. She knew why he was brought.
He was not to be trusted at home by himself.
It was all very well to bark at tramps, '' but

Peterkin was such a cad, that he would bark
at the honest poor."

The mother and son would then set forth
in homely state ; but if their errand was to
the town they would be sure to overtake
Lanceyy and the elder girls, perhaps Mary
and Freddy also, about a mile down the
hill. These young people, as a rule, would
be arrayed in flapping sun-bonnets and
** over-all" garden pinafores, but you perceive
^^ that there would not have been time
to ' dress up,' and mother did not mind."

They also had errands to the town, which
was about four miles off. A couple would
get in behind, when mother told Don John to
drive slowly, at the same time nests, and
ferns, and flowers would be put in. Some
did not attain to the town, but lingered in
the lane picking up property till the return
journey, then they would perhaps all get onboard
the somewhat clumsy craft, pulling out
the dogs to follow on foot. Sometimes on a
sudden they would all get down, excepting

the boy who was driving, and scurry into
the Httle wood on either side, turning in
like rabbits.

This was when a farmer's smart phaeton,
with the farmer's lady in it, appeared at the
top of the hill, or when Mr. Yiser and
Lady Louisa drove into the lane in their
landau.

Such a feeling as shyness was quite alien
to their natures, but they felt that their
garden pinafores rather disgraced mother,
filled as they would be with cowslips,
blackberries, or nuts, as the case might be.
It was as well, therefore, to make themselves
scarce.

Mrs. Johnston never took any notice of
these proceedings. Occasionally Mr. Yiser
could see flitting figures and bright eyes
peeping through the hedge, while the placid
and admired mother exchanged civilities with
her neighbours ; but, of course, he took no
notice, and never looked back ; while the
children stole out again, and quietly got into

the carriage without stopping it, as the pony
laboured slowly up the hill.

Their purchases were as strange as themselves.


Once he saw a gawky girl, the eldest of
the brood, dart into the wood with a good-sized
tin kettle in her hand. That kettle,
which had cost two and eighteen had,
together with a cuckoo clock, exhausted
the whole resources of the family, the clock
had cost eleven shillings, two shillings of
which had been borrowed of mother as an
advance upon next week's allowance.

Mother was not fond of advancing money,
but this was for a great occasion. These
were birthday presents for a particular
friend.

Here it is really needful to give some
account of the friend, together with certain
other friends, their place, and their surroundings.


Within thirty miles of London there is
a good deal of rural scenery. If any doubt

this, let them go and look about them — not
south of the metropolis, of course, and not
west. There are some little towns also with
a general air of being old-fashioned and
altogether behindhand with the world.

One of these was the little town beyond
that long hill that the pony hated and the
children liked ; because his natural pace ashe
climbed it enabled them to fling their
wildings into the back of the carriage without
asking to have it stopped. They generally
got out when they came to the steep
part, and often, in a chivalrous spirit, gave
the lumbering machine an unanimous push
behind, while mother took the reins.

Mr. Johnston had a ** clarence," but this
carriage was mainly used for taking him five
days in the week to and from the station,
which was more than four miles off. His
expenses were large, and he had three sons
to educate and to provide for, when there
should have been but two. But his wife
had persuaded him to let their town house ^

for a term of years, so that it became a
source of revenue instead of an expense to
him ; and when he found that she enjoyed
her quiet life in the country, where there
was next to no *^ neighbourhood," that she
looked more charming and fresh in her
country attire than she had done when they
mainly lived in London, where her milliner's
bill was six times as high, and that all her
children were healthy and happy, he fell
back on his old thought that he was the
luckiest husband going, and let himself take
the same cheerful view of things that she
did.

His abode was called 'Uhe house," and
about two fields off, with no means of reaching
them but a footpath, which led, without
any compromise, through his stable-yard,
were six cottages called " the houses." Each
of these had a nice plot of vegetable
garden at the back, but in front it had
scarcely six feet of flower-border, divided from
the field by a simple wooden railing, and

having no outlet to any road or lane, and
yet this field, a charming field in its way,
might almost itself have been thought of asa
lane, for it was very long and very narrow,
and was divided from its neighbour field
by a running brook, edged with hawthorn
and maple, and a wasteful tangle of brambles
and whitethorn. Very bad farming
prevailed in those parts.

In the first of the tenements, dignified
by this name ^*the houses," lived the very
particular friends for one of whom the tin
kettle and the cuckoo clock had been purchased.
Her cottage consisted of a very
neat and rather roomy front kitchen,
a little washhouse behind, and upstairs
two tolerably comfortable bedrooms. By
calling, she was a humble dressmaker ; she
and her sister worked for Lady Louisa's
children and servants, made the Httle
Johnston's common clothes, worked for the
farmers' ladies, and did odd jobs generally.

In the next cottage (they were all detached)

lived the cobbler. His name was
Salisbury. The particular friend's name
was Carbon — Mrs. Carbon, and she was
aunt to the nurse up at the house. The
houses were supposed to be Mrs. Johnston's
district ; if the people there were ill, it washer
special business to look after them ; she
also lent them books and tracts, and persuaded
them to join the parish coal club
and go to church.

So far as the young Johnston's were concerned,
these cottages constituted ^^ the neighbourhood
;" they frequently went on their own
invitation to drink tea with Mrs. Carbon,
who was a widow, and her sister Jenny.
They generally trundled the loaf, the cake,
the butter, and the tea, they proposed to
consume, through the fields in a child's
wheelbarrow ; frequently they added radishes
out of their own little gardens, or some
fruit.

If the sisters confessed that their coal was
low, the wheelbarrow, after having been duly

emptied, was trundled on to the last cottage,
which was called the shop, where there was
often as much as a whole sack of potatoes on
sale, a matter of three or four *^ hundred "
of coal, gilt images made of gingerbread in
the window, bell's-eyes and yellow butter, together
with a jar of treacle, with other like
dainties, and a moderate allowance of bacon,
all of inferior quality and somewhat the
worse for keeping. A quarter of a hundred
of coals would be purchased, and if the
young Johnston had not the requisite
cash to pay at the time, they brought it
the next day, but if it was at the beginning
of the week, and they had plenty of
money, they bought half a hundred and
wheeled it to its destination at twice. They
then made up a good fire. The sisters
had a capital pair of bellows, presented to
Miss Jenny by the same young friends on
a previous birthday.

They used them liberally. Mrs. Carbon
and Miss Jenny, proud and pleased, looked

on, at the same time continuing to stitch ;
they never thought of interfering with the
preparations.

A great deal of toast was made, sally-hun
cakes were buttered, tea set on the hob to
*brew," then radishes were washed, and the
cloth was laid.

Some of the company sat on Windsor
chairs, others on tall stools or boxes set on
end, which they had imported from their
home.

The hostesses enjoyed their meal to the
full as much as their guests. Nothing ever
interfered, the sisters never had any other
engagements. If they were very busy, the
girls helped to hem frills, or were trusted
to run seams afterwards, or at least they
threaded needles, while the boys made themselves
popguns, or disported themselves in
or beside the brook, catching caddis-worms,
or sailing boats.

Mrs. Johnston knew all about this ?

Certainly.

What a singular woman Mrs. Johnston
must have been !

There was a sweet gentleness about all
these children, and an untroubled air of
quaint independence.

Where, indeed, was their governess ?

Why, she was at her lodgings in the
nearest farm-house, where she spent her
evenings, and where she slept.

It was as much to her enfranchisement as
theirs; but very few mothers would have
deliberately banished her, and undertaken
herself all the supervision required between
five o'clock one day and nine o'clock the
next.

It made the governess — a very good
woman — extremely happy ; it gave an early
sense of responsibility to the children, for if
they got into any scrape, or perpetrated any
mischief, they were expected to go and tell,
which they did.

Lady Louisa called one evening when they
were present. She only stayed a minute.

'* We've come to tea," the company told
her.

Mrs. Carbon, rising, coloured and curtseyed.


Lady Louisa did not look or express
the least surprise. She had several small
books nicely bound in her basket, and she
said, —

^* Mrs. Carbon, the Rector has had his
course of Easter sermons published, and he
wishes me to present you with a copy."

Miss Jenny was a Methodist, so to her
Lady Louisa merely bowed.

She then took her leave and went on to
the next cottage.

Mrs. Carbon, a shrewd, industrious
woman, more than sixty years of age, was
rather silent after Lady Louisa's visit. She
was in the habit of going out to work as
well as of taking work in. She hoped her
entertainment of the party would not stand
in her light as regarded work at the rectory.

Could Lady Louisa disapprove ? Well,

VOL. I. E

though it might be a liberty to think it, what
business was it of hers ?

Mrs. Carbon took up her needle again
with great vigour the moment tea was over,
the Methodist sister having first said a long
grace, expressive of fervent thanks for the
meal. She said just the same grace when
the two sisters had only partaken of stale
bread and the weakest of tea with no milk
in it, but she imparted to the words on these
occasions an unconscious fervour.

'you had need not overdo yourself tonight,"
she remarked, '^ for you're going to
the Hall Farm to work tomorrow."

*eyes, I had need," answered Mrs. Carbon;
"for they look to it there that they
get their money's worth out of me."

*' Isn't it very amusing, Mrs. Carbon, dear,
going to so many different houses ? " asked
Lanceyy.

Lanceyy was waxing Mrs. Carbon's thread.

*' Well, Master Lanceyy, yes, I may say it
is. Not but what two shillings a day is

harder earned working out than working in ;
but you must count in, the experience you
get of life. You see the world. As I often
say to Jenny, * Jenny,' I say, * what should
I be now if I had never seen the world, and
what would you be either ; not that you go
out, my pore girl ! you haven't the nerve for
it.' "

Miss Jenny assented by rather a foolish
simper.

^' Nobody can never be dull," she remarked,
'^ with such an one as sister to talk to, as
we sit and sew. She's better by half than
any printed book that / ever had the reading
of."

Don John, sitting cross-legged on the
floor, was laboriously threading needles. It
took him nearly as much time to perform
this operation as it did the two sisters to work
up the thread. The little girls were elaborately
hemming the frills for the sleeve of a
kitchen-maid's new gown, which was to be
finished and taken home that night.
R 2

** But I look for no thanks — let the fit be
as good as it may — from that sort of customer,"
observed Mrs. Carbon. ^^ It's your
ma that's the lady to say she's pleased or
she's satisfied. To be sure that best — bed
furniture I put up for her after it had been
calendered was the intricate thing I ever
got the better of."

But then you had your reward," said
Miss Jenny, simpering; '* the head housemaid
showed you the drawing-room while
the family was at dinner."

^' She did, Jenny; and I've wished times
and again you could see it, so frequently
as you complain that you can't make a picture
to yourself of what heaven's like. But
you haven't the nerve to go up to the house.
You'll have to wait. It might be an advantage
to you though, if you could see it."

^' Do you think it so very pretty, then, Mrs.
Carbon, dear ? "

*^ Pretty ain't the word. Miss Majore. It
fairly made the tears start, so full of great

looking-glasses, and gilding, and silk hangings.
I felt quite solemn. I said at the
time, * It makes me think of heaven ;' so
clean, too, and so cheerful."

''I know heaven's not a bit like that,"
observed Don John, with conviction, at the
same time handing up another needle,
the thread of which, from much handling,
was not quite so clean as it should have
been.

*swell, and you may be right, sir,"
answered Mrs. Carbon, with due gravity ;
^^ and the Scripture says, as we all know,
eye hath not seen.' And yet it stands to
reason that very beautiful things and places
must be more like than such as are not
beautiful at all."

The company were not able to give an
opinion here ; but they were not much surprised
at what they had heard, being already
accustomed to look at things through other
eyes, and different points of view from those
of their own class.

'there's not much to see at the Hall
Farm," said Miss Jenny.

^^But to them that can take notice,"
observed Mrs. Carbon, *^ it's all interesting ;
it shows one people's ways. I know what it
is to have two candles as good as whole ones
all to myself, and I know what it is to
have to share the end of a dip with two others
working by me."

</ You like as well as anything working
at the Need Farm," observed Miss Jenny,
** where you sit in the kitchen with the mistress.
There's plenty to hear there, if there
isn't much to see."

*^ Ay, I've worked for three generations of
the Holly makes."

'' He was one to argue, was the old Mr.
Hollyoake," proceeded Miss Jenny; 'you
always said so. Why, he would argue even
with a ghost ! "

'* Ay, but you've no call to talk of ghosts
now," said Mrs. Carbon. *' You've not an
ounce of discretion in your whole body,
Jenny.'

*^ You mean because of us' said Marjorie ;
*' but we often play at ghosts at home, Mrs.
Carbon, and father and mother don't
mind."

** Are you sure, miss ? "

** Oh, yes ! and we often go to the Polytechnic
and see the ghosts — real ones, you
know."

** Oh, well, miss, I was not aware. Well,
as Jenny was saying, old Jem Hollyoake was
so given up to arguing, that he would argue
even with a ghost. He had brought up his
brother's son. The lad died, and his ghost
rose, got into the kitchen, and pointed his
long finger at his uncle.

^' * Uncle Jem,' said the ghost, * as you
brought me up — '

** ' Bring you up, did I ? ' interrupted old
Hollyoake, beginning at once. * Bring you
up, did I ? Little enough of that you needed ;
it was impossible to keep you down ! '

^^ * I mean,' said the ghost, obliged to explain
himself, * as you've brought me up to
speak with you out of the silent tomb.'

''^Idid nothing of the sort,' says Mr.
Hollyoake, very much frightened.

'* * You did,' said the ghost.

'* The family was gone to bed, but I daresay
old Jem had drunk enough to keep his
courage up, and argue he would.

'^ ' How dare you tell such a falsehood,' said
he. ^ I wish nothing more heartily than
that you would keep in your proper place.
Isn't your headstone to your mind ? '

'* * Yes,' said the ghost, ' it's a real handsome
one. But, Uncle Jem, you've brought
me up by for ever thinking and thinking about
those seven silver spoons you've lost. I
took them ! *

'^ Mr. Hollyoake said he was sorry, and
the ghost went on, —

a i They're at the bottom of the least
of the two old hair trunks in the garret,
hid under my velveteen coat.' Then he
vanished."

^' Are you sure the ghost said all that ? "

** Yes, Master Lanceyy. But you'll think
it strange that when, the next morning, old

Hollyoake related all this, and got some of
the neighbours to go with him into the garret,
they found the trunk and the old coat in it ;
but the spoons were not there."

^' Not there?"

*'No."

'' Then I don't believe the story ! "

Why not, sir? Oh, you may depend
it's true. It was a story against himself,
and how disrespectful he'd been arguing with
the ghost."

*' You said he was alone when the ghost
rose ? "

** Yes, sir, smoking his pipe in his own
kitchen."

*^ He must have been dreaming ! "

^^ Oh no, sir, not he, the kitchen is
tiled. Why, he has shown me many a time
the very tile the ghost stood upon. It was
a yellow one — all the others are red. The
tile is there to this day ! "

** Well, ghosts are mere bubbles," observed
Don John, repeating something that
he bad heard at the Polytechnic.

** No, sir, the man was most like a bubble
here," said Mrs. Carbon, *' for he broke, and
never paid but two and eleven-pence in the
pound, whereby we got no more than that
for making the mourning his wife stood upright
in when she cried at the ghost's
funeral."

Here the story ended. The young John-stones
pondered over it with deep interest
and attention, as something that would do
capitally to act. They were fond of playroom
theatricals, but thanks to the Polytechnic
they were, so far as ghosts went, perfectly
fear-proof.

** Oh, mother," said Lanceyy, when they
got home, *^ Mrs. Carbon told us such a jolly
ghost story. Will you come into the playroom
to tea tomorrow and see us act it ? "

*^ You should not have asked mother in
that unconventional way," said Naomi,
*' when you know we planned to send a
proper note on pink paper, and paint a
monogram for it."

Oh well, I think it had better be considered
then that I know nothing about the
tea at present' said the mother.

Naomi was modified.

'rand, mother," said Don John, 'may we
have two more 'chairs for the play-room ?
I told you last week that we had got a
Fetch."

"And I did not know what you meant,
Don John."

Why, mother, you must have noticed
that when droll or ridiculous anecdotes are
invented for the papers, or told in books, they
are often palmed off on people who had
nothing to do with them. Well we have
invented two characters. We act them.
And we palm off our funny things that we
say upon them. They are Fetches of our
own imagination, mother."

What do they want with chairs, then ? "

Now, mother, it's not fair to laugh. Why,
we have a seance twice a week ; we keep
minutes of it. Our Fetch is frequently called

to the chair, so we want one, to pretend that
he is in it."

*^Ah, I see."

^'Kobert Fetch Fetch, Esq.; that's his
name. We have pretended a large house for
him in the rectory glebe. It seems quite odd
to go there and find nothing in it. And
Fanny Fetch is his old cousin, who lives with
him."

^' And you want a chair for her, too ? "

*' Oh, yes, that we may know where she is
sitting. Of course their chairs will not appear
to us to be empty. When we act them and
do their voices, you cannot think how real
they seem."

*' You'll come and hear the seance sometimes,
won't you, mother ? " asked Naomi.

^^ Certainly'

*^ You'll like them much better than our
charades; for sometimes, you know, you think
those are rather long."

** I have thought so once or twice when
they lasted more than an hour."

*^ Well, it takes a long time to dress up ;
but mayn't we have the two chairs ? It's
very awkward for our Fetches to have to sit
upon stools."

'' You may take two chairs out of the blue
bedroom."

*^ Oh, thank you, mother; and you shall
see every bit of the ghost acted before tea,"
cried Lanceyy, with effusive gratitude.

He wagged his longest finger.

*rit's a jolly one. * Uncle Jem, as you've
brought me up ' — mind I'm to do the ghost,
Naomi. * Uncle Jem, as you've brought me
up'"

Here Lanceyy, delighted at the prospect,
turned head over heels, and the young people
shortly departed together.

CHAPTER XI.

Shortly before the boys were sent off again
to school, Mr. and Mrs. Johnston went over
to Normandy to be present on an interesting
occasion. Mrs. Grady married again. She
married a somewhat impecunious military
man, and forthwith proceeded with him to
India.

Her one little girl, Charlotte by name, had
been brought up near Dublin, but had lately
come home to her mother ; her paternal
grandmother, who had taken charge of her,
having died. She was pretty, very clever,
very awkward, and extremely shy. Quite
different from most girls of her age, and
keenly conscious of it.

She had never been accustomed to the
society of boys and girls of her own age,

and when she heard that she was to go back
with her uncle and aunt, and be educated
with her cousins, she wept with shyness and
a sense of disadvantage.

Her behaviour when first she appeared in
the play-room was so stiff, her discomfort
was so evident, that she made the young
Johnston feel almost as ill at ease as
herself.

As for Don John, at first he almost hated
her. Boys are extremely intolerant of awkwardness
and causeless fear. But in a short
time what kindness he had in his heart was
touched for Charlotte, and while he scolded
he roughly encouraged her.

** Now then, Charlotte, holdup your head.
What are you so shy about ? "

I can't help it, indeed; it won't go off,
Don John."

*' Won't it? Well we can't stand this
much longer. Do you think it would go off

I gave you a good shaking ? "

*^No-o."

^* Suppose I try?"

He advanced ; they were in the garden.
Charlotte, taking all for sober earnest,
turned, and, fleet of foot as a fawn, darted
along the grass walk and across the first
field, he after her whooping, and with all
the Johnston at his heels.

She reached the brook ; he was gaining on
her, he was close behind. She checked
herself for an instant on the edge, gave a
shriek, made a spring, and instead of clearing
it, splashed into its very midst.

Astonishment, and the water bubbling
about her, brought her instantly to a dead
pause. Then she heard shouts of laughter
behind her. She turned cautiously round,
and when she saw Don John gaping at her
in dismay on the bank, and all the others
laughing, she could not help laughing too.

** Keep as still as ever you can ! " shouted
Lanceyy, as he came up breathless. *^ Well,
I don't know whether this was most furikij
or most 'plucky I "

Cliarlotte by no means wanted courage,
and shyness could not stand against
such an adventure as this. The water
was almost up to her shoulders, and it was
not without some difficulty, and the help
of the cobbler's — Mr. Salisbury's, — bench
that she was extricated, for she was standing
on a little shoal, and the water was
deep on either side of her.

Breathless was the interest of the folk
from " the houses," while Charlotte, dripping
and blushing, was taken to Mrs.
Carbon's house. Marjorie having rushed
home for the nurse, that functionary soon
appeared with dry clothing, and Charlotte
was arrayed in it.

When she appeared outside, Don John
met her looking very sheepish, but instead
of apologizing, he said bluntly, —

You're not to do that again ; it's more
horrid of you even than being shy. I was
only in fun."

VOL. I. s

I shall not do that again, unless you do
that again," said Charlotte, not without a
certain audacity ; for she was still excited
and her shyness for the moment was
gone.

She shook back her thick black hair.
She was a pretty little girl ; but Don John
cared not for her good looks, for the
lustre of her dark blue eyes, and the soft
carnation flush which had spread itself
over her small oval face.

Well, let's be friends," said Don John
bluntly; '' you know it was hateful of you
to be so shy."

'eyes," said Charlotte, '*! know it was."

If you'll be nice to us," he continued,
with a sudden burst of generosity, '' I'll
let you write the minutes of our society,
and tell you all about our Fetches."

Hints of the Fetches had reached Charlotte.
She was devoured with curiosity
about them.

Come ! I don't like writing, and you
can write so fast."

He held out his hand as a token of forgiveness.
She was the culprit, of course.
Charlotte looked at matters in the same
light.

The minutes of our societies. These were
fine words ; they meant the meagre and
badly-spelt notes, written in ruled copybooks,
of these children's fantastic doings.

Charlotte held out her hand, and amity
was proclaimed then and there.

The little girl was now at her ease with
this especial company, and did not know
that the desired state of things had not
come about by any resolution of her own,
but only through accidental circumstances.

Poor little Charlotte ! She was more
utterly at home and at ease than most
people with those whom she did fully know
and love ; but she had a fresh access of
shyness with every stranger, every visitors
2

and even every new housemaid that appeared
on the narrow scene of her life. If
she went to drink tea with the young Misers,
she made herself ridiculous by her stammering
and her blushes ; if a farmer's lady made
a polite remark on meeting her in a lane,
she left the Johnston to answer it and retreated
behind them, flushing furiously.

Sometimes, as time went on, and she
was more shy than ever, she would say it
was hard when her cousins laughed at her.

Then you shouldn't write verses, Charlotte
Only think of a girl of your age
writing verses," observed Marjorie on one
such occasion.

"It can't be that," answered the poor
little victim, drying her eyes.

Oh yes, it is," said Don John, with
youthful certainty and inconsequence.
'' Father says it's the poetical temperament
that makes you so shy."

But I've tried to leave off writing my

poetry, and it makes no differences' said
Charlotte, clinking a sob ; " I haven't written
any for a fortnight."

"And those verses she did for poor
Peterkin's epitaph were perfectly stunning,"
observed Lanceyy.

Charlotte was consoled.

And mother says she thinks it's extremely
interesting to have the poetical
temperament," remarked Naomi, the second
girl.

'' So now, Charlotte, don'tbemooney; set
off ! — proceed ! — go it ! — and finish the
minutes. Don't you know that Fetch is
coming to tea — and mother," exclaimed
Don John.

Don John and Lanceyy were now fourteen
years old, Marjorie was nearly sixteen,
and Naomi fifteen. But the two boys were
quite at the head of the family — bigger,
stronger, cleverer, and bolder than the
sisters, they reigned over all, especially

over Charlotte, though she alone had the
touch of genius, which guided their fancies
and suggested their most amusing play.

The boys were just come home for the
midsummer holidays, and had been to pay
a short call at the houses.

There was poor Mrs. Appleby, who was a
cripple, and lived with her daughter; to
these patient women they took some tea, and
a little shawl, bought with their own money.
Then they paid their respects to Mr.
Salisbury and his wife, and were astonished
to find the cobbler at work in his little
back kitchen, and the front room with a
new square of carpet spread over its brick
floor, a sofa with a soft puffy seat, some
new chairs, smartly covered with rep, and
a good-size looking-glass ; while, standing
on a small wicker-table, was a lady's work-basket
lined with quilted satin, and filled
with odds and ends of coloured threads.

Mrs. Salisbury answered the door when

they knocked. She had on a clean gown
and a white apron.

Glad to see you, young ladies, and you,
Master Lanceyy, and you. Master Don John.
Salisbury and me we have promoted ourselves
into the wash' us."

Mrs. Salisbury looked a little confused.

"We've got a lodger," she continued,
that is out at the present time."

But who might be coming back," said
Marjorie instantly, feeling that to come in
might be to intrude. So the boys, having
been assured by Mrs. Salisbury that they
were so growed as never was," proceeded
with their sisters and Charlotte to Mrs.
Carbon's cottage.

Fine doings, young ladies, and gentlemen,
at Salisbury's," exclaimed Mrs. Carbon,
when the usual greetings had been
exchanged. *' You've heard of the lady,
no doubt."

"What lady, Mrs. Carbon ?"

It's a very 'serious thing," began Miss
Jenny, quite solemnly.

All ! you may say that, my pore
girl ! Jenny has had a shaking of the
nerves lately, pore thing ; but a truer
word she never said, Mr. Don John, than
that as has just passed her lips. There's
a lady come to lodge here ! She have our
front bedroom all to herself (and put in
the best of new furniture) ; and eight shillings
and sixpence a week paid regular
she has promised us for it. And she has
Salisbury's front room for her parlour.
And it's a 'serious thing."

She came in yesterday was a week,"
observed Jenny.

And," said Mrs. Carbon, " I told her
truly when first she walked up to the door,
and asked if we had lodgings to let, ' Iso,
ma'am,' said I, ' not for a lady like you.'
It's not what I've been used to, I'll
allow,' she said, rather high, 'but I feel as

if I should take to this quiet place ; and
I've seen the world, so I can make allowance.'
Lie was all in silks and satins,
and had a long gold chain, and a gold
watch 1 'Why, ma'am,' said I, 'just look
round. There's not so much as a highroad
to look out of the window at, and seethe
carts, and carriages, and what not
pass, when you're dull. A narrow field and
a few bramble bushes are all very well for
poor folks, such as we, to have for a prospect.
But you, that I make no doubt might
lodge in the best street of the town ! Besides,'
said I, ' we've no accommodation.'
She didn't seem convinced, but she went
on to Salisbury's, and there they said the
same thing."

But I think I would rather be in these
houses than in the town," said Marjorie.

'' There now 1 "* cried Miss Jenny, and
shook her head as much as to say ' they none
of them have any sense these gentlefolk.'

A great deal of folding and measuring of
flounces followed ; the girls lent their aid ;
but when all was set in order, and the sisters
could take up their needles again, Mrs.
Carbon resumed the subject so much in
her thoughts.

"Jenny, pore girl, has seen little of life, to
be sure, and her nerves are not strong, so
she is not to be judged (she pronounced
this word judged) like other folks that
have had experience. I went out to work
next day. "When I came home she said —
you did, didn't you, Jenny ? — she said,
Often do I pray against the fear of the
world, but I'm afraid the love of the world
and the handsome things in it has got the
better of me this day. Elizabeth,' she said,
the lady has been here again, and I was
that dazzled with her beautiful gown, made
of the best corded silk, and her things in
general (and the picture of a gentleman
hung round her neck) ; but though you

bad said our place was too humble for such
as she, I took her upstairs when she told
me, and showed her our front bedroom.' "

Yes, that was what I said," Miss
Jenny answered. " Only I didn't lay it all
out so straight on end as you can, sister,
and I went on to her, as was my duty ; I
said, ' It's a poor place, ma'am, for such as
you.' ' I think, Miss Jenny,' she says, ' if
you and your sister was to sleep in the
back room, and put some new furniture
in here, it would do for me very well.' "

And here she is," said Mrs. Carbon,
cutting the story short, for she observed
that it did not much interest her young
visitors.

*' But I hope it's not wronging her to
take the eight shillings and sixpence a
week," continued Miss Jenny, who for the
moment was irrepressible, " being as it is
so much more than our whole rent. And
it's strange and worldly to come down of a

weekday morning as she does in a silk and
cashmere costume almost as good as new."

That's nothing to us," said Mrs. Clarion,
austerely, and the young people took
their leave. They could not stay to tea,
they said, their mother was going to drink
tea with them in the playroom, and they
must go back at once to receive her.

But Don John had spent the morning at
the town, and had not come home in time
for the early dinner ; his noontide refection
had been limited to two buns, he was
therefore about to have a '' meat tea," with
the addition of gooseberry pie and beer.

"You here?" exclaimed Lanceyy, when
he and Don John entered the playroom,
and he saw Mary and Freddy seated in a
corner with all humility.

1^0, you can't stay, you must slope ! "
proceeded the other young despot. " Didn't
we tell you, you might make the raspberry
wine in the nursery ? "

** But we don't see any fun in that."

Oh, you don't ! Well, now, I wish you
would do something really useful for me."

"Yes, we will, Don John."

*' Take two or tln^ee matches out into
the garden, and strike a light, that you
may see whether the sunshine's of the
right sort. If it is, bring me word."

"We wanted to hear you do Sam
Weller."

Don't sniff," proceeded Lanceyy.

And the cake smells so good," continued
Mary, in a piteous tone, and twinkling
away a tear.

Oh, the cake ! " exclaimed Don John.
"Yes, my young friends, that's fair. Now
then, ' share and share alike,' as the tiger
said to the washerwoman ; ' you shall
mangle the skirts and I the bodies.' "

That's meant for Sam Weller," Lanceyy
exclaimed. " Now you've heard him ! "

Pass a knife,' proceeded Don John.

The little sister handed him a handsome
ivory paper-knife. Don John was wroth.

'' What ! mj prize — my carved knife
that father gave me ? Well," he continued,
falling into thought, '* ' I don't see
that it can be put to a better use,' as the
Queen said in the kitchen at Balmoral,
when she stirred up the porridge with her
sceptre."

"And there's no other knife," said
Freddy humbly.

*' And," Mary put in, "we've often seen
you cut with this one yourself."

Don John was feeling the edge of the
knife.

That's nothing," he answered uttering
a great truth without perceiving its importance,
" things are perfectly different, and
are always reckoned so according to the
person who does them."

He dug the knife into the cake, and
carved out a handsome quarter. But just

as the operation seemed about to terminate
successfully, a hard piece of citron got in
the way. A portentous crack was heard,
and the heft broke off short in his hand.

The little brother and sister seized their
share and immediately took themselves off.
Under the circumstances, how could they
hope to be tolerated in the playroom any
longer ? The company set chairs, Lanceyy
nicked out more portions of cake with his
pocket-knife, and then they bethought
themselves of ringing for what they wanted.

When Mrs. Johnston made her appearance,
the paper-knife had been put away
and forgotten. Don John was pouring
out a glass of beer, and saying, —

' I like my drink frothed, and plenty of
it,' as the porpoise said in the storm."

Then, when the foam disappeared with
mortifying rapidity, he went on in more
natural fashion, —

Oh, mother, don't you think father

might let us have the beer a little less
powerfully weak? It really reminds me
of the old story he told me himself, that the
proper way to make small beer was to tie
an ear of barley to a duck's tail, whip it
round the pond with a bunch of hops, and
serve out the liquor. No, mother, you are
to sit at the head of the table opposite tome.
That chair is Fetch's seat."

Is he here ? " asked Mrs. Johnston.

'' Not yet, mother ; he was here yesterday,"
said Lanceyy, " and Fanny drove over
in the pony chaise to convey him home.
Oh, Eob,' she said — his Christian name
is Robert — (here Lanceyy fell into a soft,
foolish tone), ' I left your boots at Salisbury's
to be patched. He certainly is an
ugly fellow ; I little expected ever to see
him, though I have heard of Salisbury
plain all my life. And I have yet to learn,
my dears, why they call him Salisbury
plain, instead of plain Salisbury.' "

'' And then," said Charlotte, " Fetch told
us this anecdote, and said we were to enter
it on the minutes. Three men, after a hot
day's work in the hay-fields, got very
drunk ; their names were Miller, Wright,
and Watt. When their wives came to
fetch them home they had tumbled down ina
heap, and were fast asleep on the hay.
Wright's wife said, ' Wright's wrong
Miller's wife said, ' My man's so jumbled
up with the others, that I don't know which
is which,' and Watt's wife said, ' I don't
mind which is which, all I care for is what's
Watt'"

After that," observed Marjorie, we had
great fun, Lanceyy did Fetch, and Don John
was Sam Weller! He's generally Sam
Weller now."

Rather ambitious," remarked Mrs,
Johnston.

"Yes — we read Charlotte's epitaph on
poor Peterkin, and Sam Weller said, ' Very

VOL. I. T

affecting, " I incline to blubber," as the
whale said when he was half seas over.'
There you see, mother laughed at that quite
naturally, and without trying ! " exclaimed
J^aomi. " I told you I was sure it was
funny. And then Fanny Fetch interrupted
the stupid thing continually says what
has nothing to do with the subject. ' My
pretty Rob,' " Naomi simpered, " ' if you
were to steal a joke, would that be burglary
or petty larceny ? ' There ! mother
laughed again."

But I wish Fetch to come," said Mrs.
Johnston ; "I like him to be present."

'' We can't always make him be here,"
Lanceyy explained ; '^ sometimes we have
nothing for him to say. But he told some
more anecdotes yesterday. He said a man
met one Mr. Tooth, and a lady supposed
to be his mother. The man said, ' Is that
your own tooth, or a false one ? ' She
answered, * He's both.' "

If it's not a breach of confidence, I
should like to know who made Fetch say
that ? "

Well, mother, it would be a breach of
confidence to tell you her name ; but perhaps
I may whisper to you that her initials
are C. O'G. Don John was so much pleased
with the minutes and her anecdotes, that
while she was writing this morning he invented
a Sam Weller for her. * You can't
speak to me now, I'm composing,' as the
little boy said when he was making the dirt
pie, and sticking it round with barberries."

Oh, here's Fetch ! " exclaimed Don
John, rising up and shaking hands violently
with nothing. " How d'ye do ? — how d'ye
do ? You find us in the-midst of our simple
meal — consomme de bread and cheese,
seed cake au naturel, and small beer a la
maitre d'hotel."

Fetch was then bowed into his seat and
introduced to Mrs. Johnston.
T 2

'' Having had nothing to eat for some
hours, my friend," said Lanceyy, as Fetch,
I think I could enjoy a shoe of that
cake."

Good," said Don John, " that's quite
fair."

Lanceyy accordingly began his meal over
again ; but Mrs. Johnston proposing that
the cake should be served all round, stopped
the conversation for a few minutes.

'' And now, my friends, the minutes.
Charlotte get out the book," said Don John,
as Fetch. " I wish to have placed on
record an anecdote of my own family that
I thought of last night."

Fetch spoke in a high raised voice, and
Don John and Lanceyy produced it equally
well.

But I wish you were not so proud," said
Charlotte, " always boasting — about something
— I'm tired of writing down — about
my property — my family."

She spoke quite sharply.

My old clothesman — omj Tinder taker,"
interrupted Don John. '' Yes, it's too true
Charlotte, I am proud ! "

The minutes don't seem natural with
so many anecdotes," persisted Charlotte.

'swell," said Lanceyy, as Fetch, *' but
what am I to say if I can think of nothing
else ? Don't be so peppery ! Some people
are never satisfied. Come ! I'll tell an
anecdote about that. I invented it sometime
ago, but I never got an opportunity
to bring it in. There was once a Titan
who had the largest hand ever seen. Jupiter
proposed to give him a ring. ' I know
it wont be big enough,' grumbled the Titan.
Jupiter was determined it should. He
ordered it to be made as large round as the
earth's orbit. And yet when it was sent
home, the Titan declared he couldn't wear
it. He pretended it was too big."

Mr. Fetch, I consider your anecdote

very good," said Mrs. Johnston. '' But is
it true that you have ever boasted of your
undertaker ? *'

Lanceyy not being ready, Marjorie
answered, —

"It's true, mother, that Fetch signed a
paper securing his funeral to a particular
undertaker, and he received a small sum
down for doing it."

"That shows Fetch's frugal mind," said
Don John.

My cousin Fanny is very saving — very
frugal too," said Lanceyy, as Fetch. " In
fact, I often tell her she is even mean. I
said to her only yesterday, ' Fanny Fetch,
you are so selfish, that if the whole sea was
yours, you'd still charge twopence a bucket
for salt water.' Mother," continued Lanceyy
in his own character, 'the most disagreeable
thing about this game is that when we
have invented anything funny, we can't find
an opportunity to bring it in. I^ow, Don

Jolin said yesterday, when Freddy was too-tattooing
in the garden with his fife unpretending
to drill Mary, ' I always adored the
military, as the young lady-elephant said
when she heard her lover trumpeting in the
rice swamp.' But you know if we were to
wait for a year, nothing would happen to
enable us to bring that in naturally."

I am afraid, my boy, this sorrow of
yours is common to all wits ; yet you see
you have managed to bring it in ! "

CHAPTER XII.

About that lodger.

We often think we are of great importance
to certain people ; that they must bethinking
of ns and onr affairs, that they
watch our actions and shape their course
accordingly. In general it is not so ; weare
quite mistaken.

The young Johnston and Lanceyy
never had any such ideas as regarded the
lodger ; never supposed that she walked up
and down the little path through the fields
between the wood that skirted their garden
and " the houses " on purpose to catch
a glimpse of them ; never thought that
when she was not taking this monotonous
exercise, she was often peeping out between

the small damask curtains of lier so-called
parlour, which had been the cobbler's
front kitchen, in case they should pass by ;
never thought anything of the kind ; and
they too were mistaken. She thought of
hardly anything else but of them and
their doings, specially of one of them.
But through the bushy tangle of the wood
they could always see whether she was in
the field, and so surely as she was they
kept out of the way.

What a bother that lodger is, Don
John would say, when he would notice
her trailing her fine flounces among the
buttercups. She was far too gay to look
otherwise than vulgar in such a country
solitude, and if there was anything pathetic
in her longing to see them, and in
their always thwarting her, they did not
know it.

Sometimes, if it was hot and she was
tired, she would bring out a folding campstool,

and sit upon it in the shade of the
wood, knitting. She was come from
London for the sake of country air, so
she said. Nobody at the house thought
of inquiring her name, or cared at all
about her excepting that the young John-stones
wished her out of their way.

At the houses, when they begged to
ask what they should call her, meaning,
*' What is your name, ma'am ? " she answered,
—

'^ You can call me ' the lady.' "

But they did not.

They called her " the lodger."

They all knew in spite of her shining gold
watch and chains, and satins, and rings,
her handsome silks and her fastidious ways,
that she was not what they were pleased
to consider a lady, by which they meant,
if they had known how to use the English
language correctly, a gentlewoman.

Those women who have an undoubted

right to the title of lady, and yet are
without that culture, that style, that consideration
which would enable them to
pass muster as gentlewomen, are always
very unpopular among the rustic poor. The
lodger, of course, had no right to the title
of lady ; and because'she wanted to pass fora
gentlewoman, which she was not either,
they gave her even less than was her due.

She was rich, free with her money,
not difficult to please, moderately civil
to her hosts ; but they rewarded all this
by disparaging comments.

'^ She was not a lady born, not she !
She's not like Mrs. Johnston ; but she's
well enough, and she pays her way.

But an important day was approaching ;
a friend's birthday.

The young Johnston collected a quantity
of excellent prog, and bought several
presents, among others a box-iron and a
Brighton reading-lamp.

The two boys were allowed to have the
pony-carriage and go into the town in the
morning to fetch home these things.
"We girls," said Marjorie, half enviously,
are never trusted to drive by ourselves'*

I should think not, indeed ! " said
Lanceyy; 'girls must always be properly
attended," and he ran off into the wood,
where the good things were being collected
preparatory to being carried off to Mrs.
Olarboy's cottage.

"How good they smell," said little
Mary. " Chocolate — and ! toffee — and
tarts, and muffins ; what lots of money
you and Lanceyy have. Oh, Don John, I
wish I was a boy ! "

Don John as purveyor-general was looking
on.

It's lucky," remarked Lanceyy, in reply,
that being a girl is not infectious. If
I thought I should catch it of you, Mary,
I would never come, near you or any other
girl, any more."

Of course you wouldn't," said Mary,
with conviction.

But you two little wretches are always
thinking about eating," said Lanceyy, rather
contemptuously. '' It makes me feel that
if we did our duty by you, we should not
think of letting you go to these tea-parties.


Oh, Lanceyy ! "

'' Yes, it does ; most likely you'll
never be allowed to go to any one but
this. JN'ow be off, Button-nose, and you
too, Freddy, and fetch the other parcels."

'' You are always hard on the kids,"
said Don John. " I rather like to hear
them talk their talk, and play their little
rigs in holiday-time."

But they bother one," said Lanceyy.
"And you really did encourage them
yesterday, till there was no bearing their

Then Don John burst forth in these
noticeable words, —

'''It's always a graceful thing to unbend,'
as the goldstick-in-waiting said
when he balanced a peppermint-drop on
his nose, as he stood behind the queen's
chair."

Charlotte" shouted Lanceyy, " here !
Don John has broken out in a fresh place ;
come and write this down, and stick it in
the minutes."

That's a good one," said Charlotte,
but I don't think the gold stick does
stand there.

It doesn't signify," said Don John ;
every one of you now, who reads the
minutes, will be obliged to think of him as
if he did !"

Tell us a Sam Weller, too," said Buttonhole,
otherwise Mary, coming back with
the parcels.

We like Sam Weller better than Fetch,"
observed .Freddy.

You're not to interrupt your betters

Charlotte hasn't done writing jet. Yes,
I'll tell you one presently about — "

"Yes, Don John, about''

About something to eat. I am happy
to see, Buttonhole, that you can blush.
When I was in the town this morning,
and saw all the shops, the butchers', the
bakers', the pastry-cooks', and the rest,
I sighed deeply."

Oh ! "

And said what should we be without
these. Man is made of what he eats. ' This
is the stuff our heroes are made of,' as the
Prince of Wales said when he peeped into
the Eton boys' ' sock' shop. Fetch, who
was listening, burst into tears and said,
'Alas'"

"Why, Don John?"

Because he thought it was so good of
the Prince of Wales to take notice that
we are made of what we eat, and because
he remembered that asses are too."

Is ttiat all the story ? "

It is ; now let the procession be
formed."

Don John marched first, a somewhat
thickset boy, broad-shouldered, fair-haired,
with light eyebrows and lashes, a partial walk,
and a sweet-tempered expression; Lanceyy
came next. They cut across the lodger's
path, so that she paused and waited a
moment. She looked at Lanceyy with all
her eyes. He was not so big as Don John,
he had fine brown hair, pleasant blue eyes,
a general air of roguery, and an elastic
walk. Lanceyy was brandishing the box-iron,
and singing at the top of his voice.
Then came the four girls, all small for
their years. Charlotte very pretty, the
others not pretty, but sweet and rather
graceful ; Freddy brought up the rear.

Lanceyy was rather a handsome boy, the
lodger saw his face well for the first time,
and a perfectly unreasonable pang shot

through her heart as she observed the
utter indifference of his manner towards
her. How should it be otherwise. She
dragged herself on to Salisbury's cottage,
trembling; while Mrs. Clarboj shed tears
of pleasure, as peeping through the blinds
she saw her guests coming.

She only wiped them away just in time
to receive their congratulations.

Well, and I'm sure I'm obliged to
you, young ladies and gentlemen, more than
I can say ; and to think of you always
knowing the very things I should like to
buy myself, if I could afford them. You'll
stay to tea with Jenny and me, now won't
you ? It's but a loaf of bread we've
got in the house, and a bit of butter."

Mrs. Carbon always offered hospitality
in these words, and always feigned not to
see the parcels of eatables till they were
actually presented to her.

Well, I never did ! such a noble lot of
VOL. I. U

cakes, and all so good and acceptable,"
lie exclaimed, '' on the present occasion.
And there now ! I priced that very box-iron
yesterday was a week, when Jenny and
I walked into the town. You bought it of
poor Robinson's widow, now didn't you,
sir ? "

"Yes," said Lanceyy; " she was selling
off."

' Ah,' says I to her by way of being
neighbourly, for I knew she was going to
settle, 'I hear Cupid's been at his old tricks
again.' ' Yes,' says she, ' I'm going to
marry the butcher.' "

With talk like this the time sped till the
cloth was laid, and all the good things were
set out, and then just as the tea was
poured out there was a light tap at the
door.

Mrs. Carbon knew it well, but vexation
kept her silent, and Lanceyy jumping up
went and opened the door.

The lodger !

I wouldn't intrude on any account,"
said the lodger, a little hurriedly. " I
was only just going to pass upstairs to my
room," and she moved a few steps forward,
and then came to a sudden pause, and
turned excessively pale.

Ma'am," exclaimed Mrs. Carbon,
don't you feel yourself well ?"

You're all of a tremble, ma'am," said
Miss Jenny.

Oh," sighed the lodger, " let me sit
down just for a minute."

A chair was set for her. She was a fat
young woman, extremely fair, and now
as pale as a lily.

''If you wouldn't mind letting me sit a
few minutes and taking no notice of me,"
she began.

Marjorie in the meantime brought hera
cup of tea, and Lanceyy handed her a
biscuit. Even Lanceyy noticed her face
u 2

when she looked up at him, it was full of
entreaty, full of love. What does she
want? thought the boy. What a bother
that she should have come to spoil our fun.

She began to sip her tea, and such a
rapture of tenderness made all her nerves
thrill and her pulses tingle, that she quite
forgot to consider her position as an unbidden
guest. Don John sat full in view,
with his side towards her. She could look
at him at her ease, she felt almost repelled
by him, a sense of conscious dislike towards
him, as having been the cause — innocent
enough, certainly — of a great deal of misery
to her made her shrink from his talk,
tremble at the sound of his laugh, and
feel offended and hurt when Lanceyy spoke
to him.

How familiar Lanceyy was with them
all, commanding and admonishing the
two little ones, making fun of the girls,
arguing with Don John. " And what a

real young gentleman lie is," lie felt with
tender love and pride. " 1 could never
have brought him up wherever I had put
him to school, to talk and to look like
that. Oh, that I should long to kiss him,
and mayn't ; it's hard'*

Just as the tea-drinking was all but over,
one of the girls said to Mrs. Carbon that
if she had done reading a certain book,
which she had lent to her, her mother
rather wanted it, and she would take it
home.

Then the lodger with somewhat affected
flurry was shocked to think that she had
got it. She had quite done with it. She
would fetch it.

Don't trouble yourself," said Lanceyy.
*'I can go."

*' It's on the table, sir, I think, in my
parlour," said the lodger.

Lanceyy and Don John said they were
going down first to the brook to look

after a hedgehog, and after that the book
should be fetched.

They departed, and went whooping to
the brookside, their two dogs after them;
and the lodger, quietly rising, went out
the back way into the little kitchen-garden
and so over the little low fence, not two
feet high, which divided this from Salisbury's
garden.

She hardly knew what she wanted todo
— surely not to say anything to Lanceyy
no, she thought not. No, it could only
be to look at him while he was finding
the book. Stop ! the Salisbury's were
both out, but the least little noise in her
parlour warned her that Lanceyy had already
come in. There was a minute window,
consisting but of two small panes
let into the wall, between the front and
back room. A thin muslin curtain was
hanging before it. The lodger, trembling
with a pleased agitation, stepped ap to it,

and through a narrow opening in the
muslin looked and saw — what ?

At first astonishment made her incredulous.
What was he doing ?

He was standing almost with his back
to her, and gazing, as if fascinated, at a
small desk which stood on a table under
the window ; her keys were dangling from
its lock, and it seemed as if he meant to
open it.

No. he turned away, took the book, and
with a boyish whoop sped to the door,
then all in a moment he turned on his
heels and — what a sight for her ! she saw
him go back to the desk, — and turn the
key, — and lift it, — and look in.

He dropped the book on the floor, and
with his now disengaged hand lifted
a little drawer, while he held the desk
open with the other. There was a small
canvas bag in it. She saw him shut
the desk, saw him slip certain gold coins

into his palm, then in one instant return
them to the bag which he put in his
pocket, and let the desk fall to. Then
he darted out of the house, taking the
book with him, and leaving the door of her
parlour wide open.

She stood trembling, but not now with
tenderness so much as with distress.

Through the open door she saw him run
down again to the brook; and shocked
and amazed, she stepped back again
through the garden and into Mrs. Clarboj's
house.

She crept in pale as a lily, all her joy
and excitement over ; she sat down in her
former place, and scarcely heard a word
that passed about her.

Presently the two boys came in again,
Don John had a dog under each arm,
Lanceyy had the book. She looked earnestly
at him, as it seemed to Lanceyy, ap pealing
ugly. For a moment his guilty mind

appeared to assure him that she must
know, and he felt ready to sink into the
floor with fright and shame. Oh, to have
the last ten minutes over again, and put
that money back.

But in another moment his better sense,
as he falsely thought, came back to him ;
it was quite impossible that she could
know. He certainly had not been one
minute in her room ; and he had left her
door wide open, so that the inhabitants of
six houses had easy access to it.

He was a bad boy, guilty, and utterly
unprincipled; but he had not done this
out of mere wantonness in theft and greed
of gold. No, Lanceyy knew what it was
now to be in bondage to a boy who had
found him out, and who was always
threatening him with betrayal. He had
taken ten sovereigns. To this boy two of
them had to go, as the price of his silence.
*' And if I am suspected," thought poor

Lanceyy, " but it's not likely, I'll runaway."


As the young John stones and Lanceyy
retired, the lodger went upstairs to her
bedroom, threw herself on her bed, and
wept. She knew the door of Salisbury's
cottage was wide open, that he and his
wife were gone to the town, and were
not likely to be back till dusk, and she
knew why he, whom she called " her dear
boy, her only dear, her precious Lanceyy,"
had left it so. He had not only taken the
money, but he was more than willing that
some innocent person should be accused of
the theft.

Do they keep him so short of money,
that he cannot forbear to take mine," washer
foolish unreasonable thought. '' Oh, I
must, I will speak to him now. Tell him
I forgive him ! Tell him it shall all be his,
and I have plenty for us both. Oh, my
Lanceyy, you are breaking my heart ! "

The next morning, Mrs. Jolinstone sent
Lanceyy over to the town on an errand.
What could be more opportune ? He ^ got
a post-office order, and sent his young
tyrant the two sovereigns. She had
given him a shilling and told him to get
his lunch there, for he and Don John were
to meet Mr. Johnston at the station, and
walk over from it with him. Lanceyy had
three or four hours therefore to spare, and
he wandered about in the little town and
amused himself as well as he could.

It was market-day; Lanceyy, as any
other boy might have done, sauntered
about in the market, bought a few early
jennings, looked at the gingerbread
stall, kept his dog in order, inspected
some young dormice, and declined to purchase,
saying that he had not enough
money. Nobody looking at him would
have supposed that he was a boy who
had anything on his mind, or that lie

dreaded the moment when he was to go
home and walk with his adopted father
through Salisbury's field.

But that time came at last; Lanceyy, with
Don John, went at the appointed time to
the railway station ; Mr. Johnston, at the
expected moment stepped out of a carriage,
and they all proceeded home through the
field.

And there, just as he turned towards
his own house, skirting the wood, the lodger
saw them.

He was walking with somewhat of a martial
uprightness, coming on steadily and
straightforward ; Don John walked at his
right side, with precisely the same carriage.
The two were talking together;
Lanceyy now a step or two in front, now
behind, meandered about them with a
boyish gait.

'' Who is that person ? " said Donald

JoliTistone, when lie caught sight of the
trailing skirts.

'^ Oh, that's ' the lodger,' " said Lanceyy.

Humph ! " said Donald Johnston.

Father," exclaimed Don John, '' Salisbury's
house was robbed last night, did
you know ? — "

*' Robbed I " said Mr. Johnston, " why
I should not have thought the worthy
soul possessed anything worth stealing."

'* No ; but it was their lodger's things
that were taken. It seems she left their
door open last night, and I think it was
open all night, by what I hear."

Lanceyy's terror was intense ; and Don
John spoke so coolly that it was evident
he had no suspicions.

It is to be hoped she did not accuse
the poor honest people," said Mr. John-stone.


Oh, no. She had left the keys dangling

in her desk ; slave felt sure, she said, that
nobody in the houses was dishonest."

That's a queer story," said Donald
Johnston. " Who ever passes there in
the night ? " and he went marching on ;
while she, afraid to turn too sharply out
of his path, lest she should attract more
observation, came on, hoping he would not
look at her.

He would not have done so, but just as
they met, both the boys lifted their hats.
He had not been aware that they had the
slightest acquaintance with this person.
He looked up with momentary keenness of
attention, the boys, one on each side of
him, went on a step or two ; he came to a
dead stand, and she saw in a moment that
he knew her.

Twelve years' foreign travel, plenty of
money, fashionable clothes, had not so
much changed Maria Jane Collingwood
that she could pass the scrutiny of those

keen eyes unknown. He gave her no
greeting of any sort, but after this involuntary
pause went on again, and the boys
lingering slightly he was soon between
them.

END or VOL. I.

ST. John's square.

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

5e3

DON JOHN.

VOL. II.

Gilbert AND Livingston, Painters,

ST. JOHN'S Square.

S <^teg

By JEx\N Angelo

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

IContlon :
SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle, & EIVINGTON,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1881.

[All rights reserved']

DON JOHN.

CHAPTER I

Donald Johnston walked on to his house
and said not another word.

Maria Jane Collingwood in his field —
the lodger whom he had heard his children
talk of. He had recognized her instantly ;
to what end could she possibly have come
there that did not bode disquiet, if not
disaster to him and his.

He walked straight to his wife's room,
and there remembered that he was to entertain
a party at dinner that night.

Mrs. Johnston was just dressed, her

VOL II. B

maid lead stepped back to survey her. The
two elder girls, who loved to assist at their
mother's toilet, were tying up some flowers.

Tall, upright as a wand, slender, and
placid she stood. He looked fixedly at her,
and sighed.

Father," said Naomi, " mother has got
our favourite gown on. Doesn't she look
sweet ? "

He continued to look at her, but said
nothing.

It's so thick and soft," said Marjorie,
feeling the folds of the satin ; " and just the
colour of cream — and, mother, these roses
are exactly the same colour — and look at
their little soft brown leaves."

The mother took her bouquet and smiled
at their enthusiasm.

You look well, my star," said her
husband. He felt that there was no time
now to say anything to her, and he
hastened off to his dressing-room.

There, while lie dressed, he saw the safe
little woman, who had been the plague of
his life, waddling along the path through
his field, and he hated the sight of her.

He trembled with irritation and impatience,
for nothing could be done. He
must entertain his guests, and he absolutely
must leave his boys and girls to
wander all about the fields that evening,
though she might have come there on purpose
to say to them what he most wished
them not to hear.

His wife's unconsciousness calmed him a
little, however. They were alone together
for half a minute in the drawing-room before
the first guests entered.

Estelle," he began, " I met that woman
this evening whom the children call the
lodger, I wish they had not seen anything
of her."

A tentative remark. She answered with
perfect serenity.

B 2

'' Oh, yes, mj dear — I wish it too — but
there is no harm done ; and I have told
them not to go into the field at all, but to
keep in our woods and garden this
evening'*

No harm done ? " he repeated in a tone
of inquiry.

I meant that there is no reason they
should not associate a little with the honest
poor ; but this person, a vulgar, second-rate
woman, as I gather, is just the sort of creature
we should like to guard them from."

Ah ! exactly so," he answered ; and
added mentally, while the first guests were
announced, " if we can."

Well, I hope there is no harm done,"
he reflected ; '• and yet if that woman had
wished to say anything to either of the
boys, surely she might have found opportunity
to say it by this time. It must be a
month, or nearly so, since I first heard
them mention her."

He made rather an inattentive host that
evening ; he was nervous, and sometimes
absent, but not half as much so as he would
have been if he could have known what
was coming to pass.

Lanceyy's punishment had begun.

The young people, while their elders
dined, were having their supper in the
play-room. It suited Lanceyy to appear
to be in excellent spirits. All the girls
began to talk of the supposed robbery, and
then, frightened as he was, he had to feign
interest and curiosity.

Does the lodger mean to have a policeman
come ? " asked Don John.

Lanceyy turned cold and sick.

I don't know," answered Charlotte,
who had been sent to Mrs. Carbon's house
with a message about some needlework ;
"Mrs. Carbon and Jenny were both
crying when I got there. They said
they were wretched for fear they should be

suspected — and so were the Salisbury;
and yet — **

"Well'* saidLancey.

'' They said they wished they had never
seen her, and yet, when Salisbury came in
the morning to break it to her, that the door
had been open all night, and her keys were
dangling in her desk, where, of course, she
never could have been so careless as to
leave them, she said, ' I know I have been
robbed ; I know all about it.' *'

"Extraordinary I " exclaimed Don John-she

too had been crying bitterly they
Bay.

Lanceyy was so giddy with fright that if
the least suspicion concerning him had
crossed Don John's mind, and he had looked
at him, he must have discovered all. As
it was, dismissing the contemned lodger
from his mind, he said, —

Well now, Charlotte — the minutes — call
in Fetch and let's have some fun."

How Lanceyy got through the next hour
or two he never could remember afterwards.
He knew he was frightened, miserable,
guilty, he knew that in order to satisfy his
tyrant he had risked and lost the happiness
of all his future life.

He gave Barton-nose a kiss when she
was going to bed. It seemed to him
almost for the first time in his Hfe that he
loved these so-called brothers and sisters
very much — that no fun would be so well
worth having if Don John was not there to
share it with him; that if father and
mother found out what he had done, he
never would be so happy any more.

Why had he done it ? At least he need
not have taken so much. If he had contented
himself with the sum that he so
sorely needed, the lodger might have
thought herself mistaken, when counting
over her money she found less than she
expected. And, oh, why had he taken the

bag. And now one and another went off
to bed. Lanceyy was left to the last ; lie
wrote a letter and cried over it, and at
length lie too stole into bis little room, and,
holding the letter in his hand, sat down at
the foot of his bed. The letter was full of
lies — lying came just as naturally to poor
Lanceyy as thieving, and he could already
do both with a practised hand.

Sometimes when people think intensely
of us it makes us think of them. Was that
the reason why, in the middle of the night,
Mrs. Johnston had a singular dream ?

She dreamed that she saw Lanceyy
sitting on the foot of her bed in his long
white night-gown, the moonlight was
streaming in, so that every lock of his
brown hair, every line of his features was
distinctly visible as he sat with his side-face
towards her, and he had some coins in
his hand which he was counting and laying
out upon the quilt.

She thought she spoke gently to him,
thinking that he had been walking in his
sleep. " Lanceyyyy, Lanceyyyy," she said, and
then he turned, and looked earnestly at her
and at his adopted father. She thought
he whispered in a mournful tone, "Oh,
mother and father, oh, mother and father ! "
still sitting on the bed ; and then she
thought he went into the moonbeam and
that he walked in it through the open
window, and so on and on in the air till
he was lost in a cloud.

With a start she awoke, the moon had
gone down, all was perfectly dark and perfectly
still. Whenever anything aroused
in her a solicitude about one of the children,
the f eehng soon spread till it had embraced
them all. She prayed for Lanceyy as she
laid awake thinking of this dream, and then
she prayed for all the others. At last sleep
came to her again, and she did not awake
till it was nigh day. Lanceyy was gone.

He sat on this little bed a long time, reflecting,
and fearing, and repenting, but lie
saw no opening for confession.

To confess such a deed as lie had done,
even to Don John, was past his courage,
because, to have ans effect, it must bring
other confessions in its train.

Could he possibly put back the eight sovereigns
which remained, and having done
so could he stay in his happy home, and
brave all the talk he should hear on this
subject without betraying himself.

He hoped, he thought he could. Flattering
fancy showed him a picture of himself
stealing up between the hollyhocks, softly
undoing the casement-hasp, and slipping in
the money. They would not hear.

Something like genuine repentance made
him sigh and sob as he stole down stairs,
got away into the garden, and crept round
the bushes into the wood. The stars, which
moonlight left visible, looked so bright

and so near, that they seemed to be prying
at him.

Lanceyy walked down the wood-path till
he came opposite to Salisbury's cottage.
He was full of tremor and fear — night-beetles
bumped against his face ; a great
white woolly moth sailed up smelling of
musk, little mice ran across the path, and
all of these startled him. He passed between
the bushes. There was no lio-ht

o

burning within ; the moonlight struck the
little casement-panes without, and made
them glitter. He pushed his finger into
his waistcoat pocket, and felt the eight
sovereigns in the bag. The great experiment
was soon to be made. He stole
nearer, constantly thinking of how Don
John had done that very thing before ;
surely as he wished to do well — good
would come of it ; surely he should be
helped to do what was right.

The lodger did not really know " all

about it," as she lead said. She could
only have meant that she strongly suspected
some person, the wrong person;
and if he could only put so much of the
money back nobody would believe her
story. He must, he would risk everything,
for he was lost and ruined, if once
investigations were made.

His heart beat high, his breath came in
little pants, he was quivering with agitation,
in which was far more hope than
fear. He crept on behind the bushes at
the further side of the brook. It was
nearly midnight when he stole across the
narrow field and risked several times
being seen, so sore was his longing to get
close to the casement window.

He reached it at last, and his hope was
quenched. He laid his cheek against the
glass, and put his fingers on the fastening.
The curtains hung a few inches
apart, and to his alarm he heard soft

whispering voices within. Salisbury and
his wife — perhaps a policeman, who could
tell — were sitting up ; evidently on the
watch.

He edged himself back among the hollyhocks,
and quite calmly went away by the
back of the house. His last chance had
failed, his home was forfeit ; go he must.

He hardened his heart — had he not
tried his very best to repair his fault ! — he
must now keep the eight sovereigns that
was manifest. He supposed all that
money would last a long time, and then
when he had nothing left, why, he could
go to sea.

In the meantime he had always heard
that the best place to hide oneself in was
London.

Lanceyy was young for his years, he was
strangely undecided, he had often longed
to see the world, and wished he could goto
sea. But he loved comfort more than

adventure, and to a certain extent lie
loved the parents who had adopted him,
and the brothers and sisters with whom
he had been brought up.

He thought he would wait another hour
before he started ; he went and took leave
of his rabbits, and of old Die, it was a sore
wrench to leave them behind. He would
stay for this one hour in the church porch,
surely something would turn up — surely
he was not going away for ever ?

The shadows were long now the moon
was southing. He could steal along by
the hedge and not be seen, and he came
and leaned against the old wall of the
church tower and shed some miserable,
contrite tears. But there were strange
creaking and groaning up aloft. He
could hardly believe that the old clock in
the tower was responsible for them all,
and then there seemed to be running up
and down and jumping in the body of the

cliurcli. He turned very cold, something
appeared to fall ; a squeak almost human
followed; in the daytime he might have
thought of rats, but now his mind was on
more awful things. The clock 'gave
warning," it was an awful sound — a new
sound — and when midnight began to
strike, his guilty conscience drove him forth
as if the brazen echoes were proclaiming
his guilt to all. He ran away in good
earnest, glad and almost thankful to go.

About seven o'clock on a sultry evening
a decent-looking woman was laying
the cloth on a small round table in a
moderately clean and very scantily-furnished
parlour in London.

Now and then she glanced curiously at
a fine boy, who looked very tired, and
was sleepily watching her operations.

He can hardly keep his eyes open,"
was her thought ; *' what ever shall I do ? "

Lanceyyyy — for Lanceyyyy it was — lead walked
during the previous night to within four
miles of London ; and then a fit of indecision
had come upon him, and he had
lingered about, losing his way, and lamenting
his fate till it was high noon, then
finding himself close to the railway by
which Mr. Johnston came up to London
every day, he walked across the country
from it till an omnibus overtook him, and
getting in he coiled himself up in a corner.
It did not matter in the least where it was
going, for he himself was not bound to
any place in particular. He dozed, and
ate gingerbread, and in course of time the
omnibus stopped at the King's Cross Station,
the terminus by which he was accustomed
to enter London.

Father " never came up at that time of
day ; but yet Lanceyy did not much relish
finding himself at the foot of Pentonville
Hill, a locality so familiar to him.

He dived into a side street, and observed
almost at once that nearly every
house had a card in some window, or over
the door setting forth that lodgings were
to let in it.

He remembered that he must sleep
somewhere, and if he went to an hotel he
should be far more liable to discovery than
in a quiet street such as this.

So Lanceyy took some cheap lodgings fora
week, a tiny room called a drawing-room,
with a tiny bedroom behind it. He
was tired and hungry, but he was not
equal to the task of ordering dinner,
because his landlady seemed to be examining
him and cogitating over him.

He went out and subsisted on refections
of buns, tarts, and fruit. At last he
came back to his rooms, and his landlady
helped him by asking when he would have
his supper, and what he would like. He
did not know what to have. She told

VOL. IT.

him, and requested money to pay for the
various items, looking curiously at him
while he took out his well-filled purse and
gave her what she wanted.

He had felt very forlorn during the
afternoon. There was a little bird shop nota
hundred yards from the station, to which
he and Don John always paid a visit when
they came to London. The station was
not visible from it, and Lanceyy had felt
irresistibly drawn to it. There were
squirrels as well as birds, dormice, young
tortoises, and goldfish. There you might
buy a cock redbreast for sixpence ; a
chaffinch for twopence, and various other
English birds at moderate prices.

Lanceyy had laid out a small sum in the
purchase of two green linnets in cruelly
small cages, a bag of seed, and a little
tortoise, in a lidless wooden box, lined
with a damp sod.

His landlady, having laid the cloth,

brought him up some mutton chops,
potatoes, tea, and bread and butter, and
left Mm. Lanceyy bad never in bis bfe
been so glad of a comfortable meal. She
told Mm to ring when be wanted her to
clear away.

Sbe was a little bustling, clean woman,
motherly and observant. Her eyebrows
bad a peculiar faculty for raising themselves.
Lanceyy knew as well as possible
that sbe was making observations on bim,
and that frequent sensations of surprise
made these eyebrows go up into ber forehead
as two black arches, wbicb left ber
large eyelids full of little veins, to droop
over ber inquisitive brown eyes, wbicb for
all their penetration made bim feel a certain
confidence in ber. He thought sbe
was a kind, good woman.

When sbe came in to clear away, be bad
set the two cages on the table, and was
shaping two small wooden perches for ibis
c 2

miserable little thralls. He evidently did
not wish to look at lier, and having nothing
else to do was whiling away his time
bj feeding and attending to these new
pets.

As he did not speak to her, she made
an opening for herself by saying, '' You'll
have to pay for the use of the castors,
sir'*

Lanceyy looked up.

'Tor the mustard, and pepper, and
vinegar inside 'em, I mean," she explained.


"How much?" asked Lanceyy a little
uneasily.

Ninepence a week."

On hearing of such a small sum, the
interest and uneasiness of her young
lodger immediately subsided; he pushed
the perch into one of the cages, and when"
the linnet had ended its distressful fluttering
she said in a clear, decided tone, —

Not much used to taking lodgings, T
reckon ? "

Lance J said nothing.

*^ And jour luggage, sir, when might that
be coming? "

'' I have no luggage," answered Lanceyy,
blushing.

Left it at home, I reckon ? " and before
Lancy had time to reflect his answer had
slipped out, " Yes."

She folded up her cloth. *' They're in a
fine taking about you there by this time,
I'll go bail," she observed.

"I don't know what you mean," said
Lanceyy, flushing up.

*' Just as if I didn't know as well as if
you'd told me that you'd run away from
home ; but now here you are as safe as can
be, and you've got at least a whole week to
think it over."

I don't know what you mean," repeated
Lanceyy.

Why I mean that you've paid for these
lodgings for a week — and you can turn
things over in your mind. They're fond of
you I'll be bound — you can turn that over."
She lifted up her tray. " I have a son that
ran away to sea three years ago come
Michaelmas ; I'll assure you he has bitterly
enough repented it ever since, poor
fellow."

If Lanceyy had not supposed himself to be
utterly beyond fear of detection he would
not have answered at all ; as it was, wishing
to shirk further discussion, and so confirming
her in her thoughts, he said he was
sleepy and should now go to bed, which he
did, and in spite of uncertainty as to his
future, sorrow for his fault, and for the
parting from all he held dear, he slept as
soundly and as sweetly as the most innocent
boy in London.

It was ten o'clock before he had finished
his breakfast the next morning, and he

ordered his dinner, wMcli was to be at five
o'clock, with the air of one who so fully
intended to eat it, that his landlady was
sure she should see him again, and hoped
he might be in a better humour for answering
questions than he was at present.

And yet, as he was about to go out, she
did hazard a question.

'rand where might you be going now,
sir?"

To the Polytechnic," he answered
carelessly, and off he set.

To the Polytechnic, why, you poor innocent,
misguided child — for child you are,
and loves childish pleasure still — what ever
am I to do for you ! Who would think
it?" While the landlady said this she
looked after Lanceyy as he walked down the
street, and her eyebrows went up almost
to the roots of her hair.

Yes, Lanceyy was actually going to the
Polytechnic ; he had nothing on earth todo.

" Pepper's ghosts '^ just then were all
in their glory ; he had money enough, as he
supposed, to last nearly three weeks. Of
course, he should not go to sea till the last
minute. He and Don John had been trying
to produce Pepper's ghosts by means
of a magic lantern and two looking-glasses.
He should stop there the whole day, and
tomorrow (unless he altered his mind and
went to see the beasts feed at the Zoological
Gardens) tomorrow he would goto
the docks.

To say that Lanceyy was happy at the
Polytechnic would be to make a mistake ;
but he certainly had intervals of enjoyment,
when he forgot the past and the
future, and puzzled himself over " Pepper's
ghosts," and afterwards listened to a lecture,
which was enlivened by various chemical
experiments, that made noise enough
to delight (and deafen) any boy of average
tastes.

He came home, ate his dinner, and played
with his bird and tortoise. He was more
cunning than he had been the previous
night. His landlady got nothing at all out
of him. He went to bed, but did not sleep
so well. He must not spend all his money,
he now thought, before he had even decided
whether he would go to sea or not.
There might be an outfit to buy, and if it
cost anything like as much as his clothes
did at school, he had not half enough
money for it even now, unless he sold his
watch.

Yes, he must go to the docks. He ordered
his dinner as before and set out.
Where should he get a cheap map of London,
for he had not a notion how to get to
the docks ? He sauntered on till he reached
the Gower Street Station of the Metropolitan
Railway ; for a few pence, as he knew
he could go a long way to the eastward, he
took a ticket and descended. Then, since

a merciful Providence had ordained that,
in spite of his crime, he should yet have
a chance of well-doing, he found that he
had ten minutes to wait, and that on a
dark, dingy book-stall there were maps
and the daily papers ; he asked for a map
of London, and while the selling-boy dived
under the back of the stall he glanced at
the rows of Times newspapers. Standards,
Telegraphs, &c., &c., and his eye
carelessly ran over the first advertisement
on the top of the second column of the
Times.

To L. A. — L., it is all discovered; but
yet there is time. L., only one person in
this world knows. Will you trust that
one, and all shall be forgiven and made
right again ? Do not throw away your
home and your prospects. Trust me, and
come to the Euston Hotel. Write your
own name on a card, and send it up to
No. 16."

Lanceyy read the whole of this before it
occurred to him that the initials were his
own. "With a start his eye then passed onto
the Standard, and there was the same
advertisement to L. A. He was instantly
sure that the message was to him. How
could he doubt that, any more than Don
John had put it in.

But where had the money come from ?
A trembling seized Lanceyy. He began to
be sure that this going to sea was a horrid
and unbearable thing ; that to give up his
home and his family would bring misery and
ruin. He had more than five pounds in his
pocket : if Don John had contrived to borrow
the money here was something towards
it, and he would sell his watch besides. Oh,
to be at home again; oh, how sweet the
promise that all should be set right. " I
don't want the map," cried Lanceyy, as the
boy came forth ; but he snatched the paper,
threw down a shilling, and ran out into

the road and on towards Euston Square,
never daring to stop lest fear should get
the better of him and he should change his
mind.

CHAPTER II.

The Euston Hotel.

Lanceyy readied, it, got in front of the railway
terminus, and looked right and left
with a longing hope that he might see Don
John glancing out at some window. His
heart beat wildly, as if all the life he had
was thumping at his left side. His hands
trembled, his lips were white. What if
after all there was some mistake !

But what mistake could there be ?

Don John had written obscurely, but
that was because he was afraid of being
found out. Lanceyy had written a letter to
his adopted parents, setting forth that he
longed to see the world, and so — he had

run away. But Don John would have lead
time now to put that and the stealing of
the ten sovereigns together. He had no
doubt jumped to the right conclusion, and
would save him ; but Lanceyy did not relish
having to face him. Whenever he had
committed'any peculations, it was Don John
who was sick with shame and rage, not
only with fear of detection, which was what
Lanceyy felt, but with horror at the deed
itself.

He had written his own name on a card,
and though he was full of hope, yet the
dread of what Don John would say, and of
what he might have risked in order to
bring about this interview made Lanceyy
tremble.

Is there a young gentleman waiting
here for me ? " he asked of the porter.

What is the young gentleman's name?"
was the not unnatural answer.

Lanceyy hesitated, sank into the one chair

which graced the vestibule, and gave it,
Master Donald Johnston."

A young woman, who was seated in a
kind of glass case, began to examine some
books.

No, sir," she shortly answered, " we
have no such name here."

Perhaps Don John had not dared to give
his own name. Lanceyy now felt that he
niust follow the directions given.

'* I was asked to give this card, and inquire
for No. 16."

No. 16 ! Ah, yeS; sir, that's it," exclaimed
a waiter, starting forward almost
with alacrity, and taking the card. '' Yes,
sir ; follow me, if you please."

Lanceyy rose to follow, but slowly. It
seemed to him that the young person who
had searched the books looked at him with
amusement, and that the porter at the door
was observant too. He was taken upstairs
and along some almost interminable passages

; then a door was opened ; he was
announced, — " Mr. Lancelot Airdd," and
turning from a table in the window, and
coming slowly on as if not to startle him,
he saw, not Don John — but, the lodger,

There's some mistake ! " exclaimed
Lancej aghast, and starting back.

"No, there's no mistake," she answered,
looking at him with that 
expression in her eyes. "No ; 'twas,
I that advertised, — Lanceyy ! "

Something indescribable in her face and
in her manner astonished him almost to
the point of making him forget why he had
come.

She had passed between him and the
door. She leaned against it, and held the
handle, while he sank into a chair.

Lanceyy," she began again, and said no
more. The silence that followed was so
full of wonderment to Lanceyy that no
words, he felt, could add to it whatever.

those words might be. And yet they did
give him a kind of shock, she said them
with such difficulty and such distress.

**I saw you take it' she whispered,
after that pause.

Lanceyy, I saw you open my desk and
steal the ten sovereigns; and I — I amas
miserable as you are."

Lanceyy looked at her as she still stood
supporting herself against the door. He
was subdued by her paleness, by the distress
and misery in her voice, and the
yearning in her face. He burst into
tears.

0, it appeared so long before she spoke
again !

I want to save you. Do you know
why?"

"Do I know why?" he repeated, almost
in a whisper. " No."

He looked at her, and his heart seemed
to whisper to him what this meant. He

VOL. II. D

put out both his hands as if to entreat her
not to come nearer to him yet.

"I took those lodgings in Salisbury's
house that I might see you — only you,"
she continued.

«' Why should you care about me ? " he
burst out. " I don't know you. What
are you to me ? "

'your mother."

Yes ! He was almost sure now that this
was what he had foreseen — this was what
he had known she would say.

He trembled from head to foot; the
ten sovereigns were far away now, lost ina
wild whirl of disaster, and grief, and
change.

I can't love any other mother than
that one at home," he said bitterly.

She answered, in a piercing tone of distress
and remonstrance, " But you have
run away from her, my Lanceyy. And
could she forgive you if she knew all ? "

I cannot say."

But I do knoT\^ — and I do forgive —
and I will forget. Only repent, my son,
my only dear; or you'll break my heart."

I have repented. Oh, forgive me, and
let me go ! I have left them all, and lost
them. But—"

But you cannot take me instead. I
know it. You cannot love me all on a
sudden."

Lanceyy was too much astonished and
agitated to arrange the many thoughts
which were soon to press for utterance.
Only one came to the front, and he uttered
it.

"It is late in my life for you to ask me
to love you for the first time."

"Yes," she sighed.

She stood pale and mournful of aspect
and leaned against the door. He knew
that her distress for his fault was overpowering
the joy of recovering him.
D 2

He revolved in His mind the circumstance,
and vaguely gazed about him at
the common-place room, the common-place
woman only distinguished from many
others by the over-richness of her dress,
and the fineness of her gold ornaments.
Nothing helped him.

And she said she was his mother !
Which was best ? to run away to the docks
and see what ships were like, and make
trial of the hardships of the sea; or to
bind her to secrecy, and let her save him
as she had said ?

It was easy, this last plan. It was a
respite; but he felt instinctively, for he
was not calm enough for any decided
thoughts — he felt that to run away bore
with it the blessed possibility of coming
home again and being forgiven. But to
stay as her son was to give up this home,
he could not have both. Then he looked
at her, and for the moment was even more

sorry for her than for himself. And he
rose and came towards her, for this
Lanceyy was not always to act basely and
with unkindness. He dried away his
tears.

But I know very well that you love me
now," he said, with her last word still ringing
in his ears. " You would like to kiss
me, wouldn't you ? " and he bent his fresh
young cheek to her lips.

She kissed him, and with what joy and
gratitude no words can tell. Holding him
for a moment round the neck, — *' Promise
you won't run away from me," she entreated.


No, I will not." Then astonishment
getting the better of his emotion, he went
on, " You — no, I need not fear that you
will betray me. But if you are my
mother, how comes it that my own — I
mean my other father and mother — do not
know you ? "

Mr. Jolinstone does know," she
answered, sobbing. " When I met him in
the fields I saw that he recognized me.
So then you know nothing at all about
fine, Lanceyy ?"

She trembled. She was seated on a
chair next to him now, had taken his hand,
and was pressing it to her heart. He
scarcely cared about this, or noticed it.
He perceived that he was saved, but then
he was lost ! This mother who had found
him would want to keep him, and she
could never be admitted as an equal in the
adopted mother's home.

*' I know nothing but that your name is
Colin good," he answered, with a sigh.

'' yes ! my name is Collingwood. You
know nothing more, my son ? Think."

She looked intently at him, and he
added, —

They said that my father's name
was Airdd, and after his death that you

married again." It's quicker than lightning.
I have no time to think, was his reflection,
and he held up his hands to his head.

Yes, but nothing more ? " she asked.

*' Nothing, but that you never wrote tome,
which we thought was strange."

'' We ? "

"Don John and I." Then there was a
pause, and they both wept.

*' Can't you say Mother to me, Lanceyy?"

No," said Lanceyy, dejectedly. " I love
the other one. I don't mean — I don't
wish to love any but her."

*' But surely — " she sighed as if deeply
wounded — " surely you are thankful to
be saved ? "

A lump seemed to rise in Lanceyy' s
throat then, and he trembled even more
than she did.

"I am not saved," he answered hoarsely;
*' I don't wish to say anything wicked to
you. Let me alone, or I shall."

*i'll only say one thing, then," she persisted.
*' That ten pounds : you are welcome
to it. Consider that I gave it to you.
It is yours''

Lanceyy's chest heaved, there certainly
was some relief in that sigh.

Presently she spoke again.

I heard what you wrote in your letter
to Mrs. Johnston — all the servants and
children know — that you had run away to
sea. Nothing could be like the astonishment
of them all. I think it was as good
a thing as you could have said ; and so,
when I got here, I said the same thing,
that my son had run off to sea ; but I said
I hoped you would come and take leave of
me, and I bribed the waiters to look out
for you."

Oh ! what a world of difference there was
between this speech and anything that had
ever been said to him in his lost and forfeited
home.

But it suited poor Lanceyy, and he
gradually became calmer. He was to be
aided with this lie that concealed a theft.
She hoped by means of it to conciliate and
make him lovingly dependent on her ; and
he, by the same means, hoped to pass for
nothing worse than an extremely ungrateful,
bad, and foolish schoolboy, to
obtain forgiveness and get away from her.
Each was subtle enough to conceal such
thoughts. Lanceyy at once determined
that he would try to be more pleasant to
her, and she began to throw out hints of
projected visits to Paris and to Switzerland,
which, without distinctly asking him to go
with her, seemed to show that his company
at home, or abroad, would always bea
pleasure to her. A clock on the mantelpiece
struck one. Now was the decisive
moment.

You'll stay and have your lunch with
me, of course ? " she said.

*'I suppose so," lie answered dejectedly ;
and then, on reflection, added, " If you
please."

The colour came back to Iter face. Lie
knew lier game was won. She rang the
bell, quietly ordered lunch for two, and
added, but rather slowly, 'rand this young
gentleman — my son — will sleep here tonight.
I shall want a room for him near
to mine."

The waiter tried, but not very successfully,
to conceal his interest and amusement.
Lanceyy, with a disconsolate air,
was looking out of the window. Mrs. Col-logwood
put a small piece of paper in the
waiter's hand, on which was some writing.

"You'll see that this goes at once ? "

Yes, ma'am."

It was a telegram addressed to Mr.
Johnston, at his house in the country,
and was thus expressed : —

Sir, Master Lancelot Airdd is with meat

the Euston Hotel ; I await your wishes.
M. J. C."

As the lunch drew to its conclusion,
Lanceyy became hopelessly restless. Mrs.
Collingwoocl noticed this, and asked what
he would like to do.

He had nothing to do. He had thought
of going to see the beasts fed ; but it was
too early. Lanceyy brought out this plan
in his most boyish and inconsequent
fashion.

"But he had two green linnets and
a little tortoise in his lodgings. He should
like to have them with him at the hotel,
for he had nothing to do."

Mrs. Collingwood said she would go
with him and fetch them.

And as I've got some money left,"
continued Lanceyy, sighing between almost
every word ; " money that you have given
me now, I should like some more creatures.
I saw a puppy at the shop yesterday — a

stunning one, a skye — and, perhaps, if I
had it " — there a great many more sighs —
'' I shouldn't be so miserable."

So an open fly was hired, and Lanceyy
appeared at his late lodgings to claim his
property. His landlady was a good
woman. She was pleased to see him with
a fine lady, who thanked her for having
been kind to her son.

"Does he owe you anything?" she
asked.

No, ma'am, nothing."

"Excepting for the castors," said Lanceyy.

Well, now," exclaimed the landlady,
to think of your remembering that, sir ;
and to think of my forgetting ! "

Mrs. CoUingwood paid a shilling for the
use of the castors, and generously forbore
to take back the threepence change.

Lanceyy felt rather less forlorn when he
reached the hotel again with his tortoise,
his two linnets, a skye puppy, and some

wood and wire with which he meant to enlarge
a cage for a staring, that he had
added to his menagerie. He was very
clever with his hands, and being much occupied,
took no notice when a telegram was
brought in for Mrs. Collingwood. It ran
thus, — " I will be with you tomorrow
morning, about ten o'clock."

So after breakfast the next morning — a
meal during which Lanceyy was still disconsolate
— Mrs. Collingwood asked him if
he did not wish to see Mr. Johnston, and
ask his pardon for having run away.

Lanceyy said " Yes," but not with any
hope that this wish would so soon be
realized. In two minutes the waiter announced
Mr. and Mrs. Johnston. A tall
lady entered, and with a jealous pang,
Maria Collingwood saw her boy rush up to
her.

Oh, mother — mother ! " he cried. His
face was on her bosom, and her hand

rested on his forehead. " Ask father to
forgive me," lie cried.

His arm was round her neck, and she
kissed him. How beautiful she was, how
motherly, how tall. The other woman
looked and envied her from the bottom of
her soul ; her face was coloured with agitation,
and her eyes flashed. She had but
vaguely noticed, she was scarcely aware
of Mrs. Collingwood's presence ; but Mr.
Johnston was, he walked up to her, as
she sat slightly turning away from the
unbearable sight of her Lanceyy's love for
another mother.

How much does that boy know?" he
inquired, looking steadily at her, and speaking
low.

"Nothing, sir — "

"Nothing?"

I have told him that I am his mother,
sir," she whispered, "but nothing else;
nothing at all."

Donald Johnston turned ; Lancej lead
made a step or two towards him, but before
lie took any other notice of him, he said, —

*' Set your mother a chair."

"Yes, father," said Lanceyy.

And as Mrs. Johnston sat down she
made a slight movement of recognition to
Mrs. CoUingwood, who was keenly aware
that her Lanceyy was standing humble and
crestfallen for what seemed a long time
before the adopted father, whose steady,
penetrative eyes appeared to look him
through and through.

It seemed a long time, but it could not have
been many seconds. When he did speak
his face changed, and his voice, which was
low, trembled with impassioned emotion.

Have I ever denied you any one thing
that was good for you all your life long ? "

'' Xo, father."

Have I made any difference between
you and the dearest of my dear sons ? "

'' No, father."

Look at me."

Lanceyy lifted up Ms daunted face, and
looked entreatingly at his judge.

Your mother, as we drove along this
morning, begged me to forgive you, Lanceyy,
for running awayJ^

Lanceyy' s eyes fell.

The steady, clear emphasis imparted to
those last words shook him, and frightened
Mrs. CoUingwood no less. There was
more meaning in them than met the ear.
How could he have discovered what she
only had seen ? And if he had not, what
did he suspect ?

He sighed deeply.

«« For running away," he repeated ; " and
I said — I would."

Another pause.

Have I anything else to forgive you
for?"

Lanceyy's head was bent, as he stood, but

he murmured something in his fright and
confusion. It seemed to be " No."

Then the other mother spoke. She said,
Oh, yes, my Lanceyy ; yes. Your father
has to forgive you for long distrust of
his anxious goodness, and care for you. If
you were unhappy at home, why didn't you
say so ? If you longed so much for a sea
life, why did you never tell it even to me ?
Why have you done this to us ? We deserved
better things of you, Lanceyy. You
have been ungrateful and unkind."

Se does know, thought Mrs. Calling -
wood, and she does not.

Lanceyy was completely overcome. He
staggered as he stood, and in another instant
the adopted father was holding him
by the shoulder ; he made him sit down,
and unfastened his necktie. As he bent
over him to do this, Mrs. Collingwood saw
Lanceyy lean his forehead for a moment
against Mr. Johnston's breast.

VOL. 11. E

*' You won't tell mother ? " he faltered.
And Mrs. Collingwood heard the words
with a passion of jealous pain. Of course
he did not care that she knew.

She heard the whispered ''No." Then
she saw him put his hand on her boy's
head. He said, —

May God forgive you, my poor child,
and grant you time to retrieve the past."

A silence followed. The adopted mother
and the true mother both wept. Lanceyy,
now the terrible ordeal was over, felt
almost as if he was in his former place, and
was going to his home as if nothing was
changed, but yet the many strange things
that had come to pass flashing back on his
memory, enabled him quickly to overcome
his emotion.

Mother," he burst out, addressing Mrs.
Johnston, "this — this lady says that she
came home from Australia on purpose to
see me. She says she is — "

She says she is your mother's said Mrs.
Johnston. " Well, my son, you always
knew that I was not ; we always told you
that you were a dear adopted son."

'' You won't let her take me from you ?"

Lanceyy," cried Mrs. Collingwood, '* I
have been very good to you, and this I cannot
stand. But for me, you would have
been on shipboard by this time."

'father," repeated Lanceyy, "you won't
let her take me from you? "

jSTo," he answered, just as decidedly as
if the whole matter was in his own hands.

Sir, you may find that I have something
to say as to that," sobbed poor Mrs.
Colhngwood.

I have no doubt of it," he replied,
and now is the time to say it. If Mrs.
Johnston will let Lanceyy take her to his
sleeping-room, you can speak as you could
not in the presence of the boy, and I can
tell you my intentions."
E 2

Still taking in all respects the upper
hand, lie was soon left alone with Mrs.
Collingwood, and while she dried her eyes,
he said, — ,

Mrs. Collingwood, I am sorry to begin
with a disparaging question. You went
away declaring that you did not know, and
had no means of knowing, which of those
two children was yours — how is it that you
come back, to the full as sure as we are,
if not more so?"

'No answer,

*' This certainty of yours almost ties me
down to the thought that you did know
always ; but that in an unworthy hour you
yielded to your husband's desire to get
rid of your child, and made up a story
which you knew would provide him with a
kind father, and a better mother than you
had been."

'' No, sir," she replied, moving her hand
as if to put all this aside, " don't."

'' How is it, then ? "

*' I came to see which you had chosen, and
the moment I set my eyes on Lanceyy, I felt
I was sure — I could have sworn that he
was my son. I loved him so. I knew that
you were right. I saw your son, sir,
several times first, and felt that I didn't
like him, that he was nothing to me. But
Lanceyy — oh, sir ! you hioiu he's mine as
well as I do."

''I believe he is, so does Mrs. John-stone."


"I have plenty, sir. My husband's — Col-logwood's
— relations in Australia left him
four hundred a year; they had been so
prosperous. It all came by David's will
to me."

That I have nothing to do with."

"Sir?"

'you can leave it to Lanceyy, if you
please ; but that is nothing to me."

I am ever deeply thankful for all you

have done for mj Lanceyy. You have made
a gentleman of him ; but I meant, sir, that
of course I should wish to take him off
your hands now, and finish educating of
him, and provide for him myself."

Quite impossible."

How so, sir."

*you cannot prove that the boy is
yours."

Prove it ? — no, of course not."

Nothing on earth but proof will do forme.
That it is to the last and uttermost
improbable he can be mine, I fully admit ;
but I will not give him up unless you can
prove that it is impossible*'

Why, you have five, Mr. Johnston —
five beside him — and I have none."

'-' The thing is entirely your own doing."

*but my poor husband, Collingwood,
had no doubt in the world; when, after
some years — we had plenty of money and
no children, and he so fond of me — 1 told

him at last everything. How I concealed
from poor mother and denied that I had
changed the children, and so — "

And so she did it herself ; yes,
probably."

Oh, you'll let me have my boy, then ? "

'* No, never."

*' I'm a miserable woman ; but there's
law. I take the law of you, sir."

'' You are talking nonsense ; there is no
law for such a case ; and if you make it
public, you will cover yourself with dis-e
grace, and make your son detest you ; we
have never told him anything at all against
you. To the utmost of my ability, I am
bringing him up as I would if it was
proved to me that he was mine; and
whether he is to be my honour or my disgrace,
so help me God, I will never forsake
him."

CHAPTER III.

Donald Johnston's words, no less than
his manner, which seemed to announce no
doubt whatever that he both could and
would keep her boy, were too much for poor
Maria Collingwood. She wept passionately,
but she was highly irritated also. " You're
extremely unforgiving and hard upon me,"
she sobbed ; " and, as for Mrs. Johnston,
if I had been the dirt under her feet, she
could hardly at first have taken less account
of me."

'' She did not see you. She was thinking
of the boy ; and she never said one
word of reproach to you when she did
see you."

** She was very high — very, and it hurt

my feelings — before Lanceyy and all. She's
not so very much above me noivJ^

*' Listen to reason, Mrs. Collingwood,
and acknowledge what you very well know,
that my wife is immeasurably above you.
She has been as noble as you were base.
She has never said one \yord against you
to the child through whom you wrought
her for some years such unutterable pain."

They can't both be yours," sobbed the
poor woman ; — she still remonstrated.

'' They are both mine in one sense, and
in the same sense neither can ever be yours ;
for if you gave me any serious trouble
about this matter (which I am sure you
will not do), I should tell Lanceyy — the one
whom you want — the whole story. He
would probably believe himself to be yours.
I leave you to judge what he would think of
you compared with the woman dio has
brought him up. But it is possible that
he might do worse ; he might, spite of all

that we think, entertain a lurking fancy
that, after all, he had the best of rights to
every single thing we have done for him.
And what chance would you have of anything
but hatred and repulsion from him
in such a case as that ? "

"It is but right — you'll own it's right
that I should see him sometimes," she
sobbed, when she had pondered this last
speech.

Yes, I own it ; and if you will do my
bidding, I will make this thing as little
bitter to you as I can."

*' I had not left him in your parlour in
Harley Street a day — not one day — before
my heart began to cry for him ; not but
what I truly was in doubt then, sir. But
David — she was so jealous of the child, and
I was that desirous to please him, and that
he should not have the expense of his
bringing up ! It was years after, when he
got fonder and fonder of me, that I relieved

mj mind with telling him all — and
lie did so reproach me ! ' If you'd had a
mother's heart,' said he, ' you would have
known there was no reasonable doubt ;
and now,' said he, ' I want that child of
yours ' (that was when he was ill), ' since
I've none,' said he, ' of my own ! '

"But I give way, sir ; I did wrong ;
and if you won't tell him anything against
me, I'll do my best to be patient. You'll
let me see him sometimes ? "

I will ; and now I am afraid I have to
ask you a question which will give you
pain. His father, Lancelot Airdd — "

Yes, sir."

Well, the thing must be said. Did he
ever get himself into trouble, as they call
it ? — was he ever taken up for any —
larceny ? "

The colour rushed over her face and
neck, and she drew herself up, and darted
a reproachful look at him.

"I think you will do well to answer*
lie said.

'' He was in trouble once — only once'
she whispered. " Oh, sir, I know — my poor
boy ! "

It seems as if it must be hereditary,"
he murmured. " What do you know, Mrs.
ColHngwood? "

She was silent, and shook her head.

It is said that you were robbed three
days ago."

Still she was silent.

When my own dear boy found that
Lanceyy had run away, he was naturally
very much distressed, and told me Lanceyy
had no real desire to go to sea. He also
confessed to me something which had happened
some years ago at school, which
instantly excited a terrible suspicion in my
mind. I could not but perceive what my
boy thought, as I now perceive that you
understand me."

*^I promised him I would not betray
Mm," said the poor, shamed and sorrowful
woman.

'' Then, Mrs. Collingwood, I must myself
make him confess all."

But there proved to be no need for this.
Mrs. Collingwood, with all her faults, was
not a foolish woman ; she soon was
made to feel that the boy's best chance of
being cured of his propensity and duly
looked after lay in his being under Mr.
Johnston's supervision. She gave way.
She would part with him then and there,
only she begged that she might not have
to see Mrs. Johnston again.

Lanceyy was therefore sent for to return
to the room he had left, a little note from
Mr. Johnston asking his wife to remain
where she was. Accordingly, Lanceyy appeared,
but it was with an altogether new
expression on his face. He looked dejected
and ashamed, but the craven air was gone.

He walked straight up to Mr. Jolinstone.
Fattier," lie said, " I have confessed it
all. I have told mother everything."

When Maria Collingwood heard this,
she felt as if Lanceyy was saved, but yet that
he was all the more lost to her. She
had now no hold; the other woman was
supreme, and she was nothing.

"And she has forgiven me," proceeded
Lanceyy, in a whisper.

'may God forgive you, my boy," answered
Donald Johnston, solemnly, '* and
bring you to a better mind. Understand
me."

No, father," Lanceyy burst out ; "I
am not daring to ask you to forgive me
yet ; but I will — I will do better."

Understand me," Donald Johnston
went on, " I am disgraced. Your wickedness
is undiscovered as yet; but I am
amazed with the shame of it, and I feel
that I shall not be able to hold up my
head as I have done."

Oil, father !" Lanceyy interrupted again,
don't say it. Have pity on me."

For better or for worse, I and mine
are so far one that we must rise or sink
together. I have a thing now to hide.
When I meet my neighbours — especially
my poor neighbours — I shall hope they
will not find it out. I shall be ashamed —
I am ashamed."

Father, I cannot bear it."

"And nobody but us knows," murmured
Maria Collingwood ; but happily poor
Lanceyy cared nothing for her opinion.
The only severe punishment he had ever
suffered in his life was now being inflicted
on him, and he felt it most keenly.

Will there never be a day when you
can forgive me, father ? " he sighed.

Oh, yes, I can forgive you even now ;
but not the less I know that you are on
the very brink of ruin, as I am liable at
any moment to your being detected and
my being disgraced."

After this, tliougli Maria Collingwood
perceived the salutary contrition it had
wrought on Lance j, she hated Mrs. John-stone
and Mr. Johnston too ; for Lanceyy
could not think about her — could not care
that she had to part from him ; could not
even take thought for his birds, and his
tortoise, and his skye puppy, which he had
hitherto been making so much of.

Nothing that concerned her signified
much. He knew he had been wicked, but
he felt it most because the other mother had
wept over her adopted son, and he felt the
shame of what he had done because of the
words of his adopted father.

''Oh, to save them for the future ! Oh,
to lead a better life ! " That was what
Lanceyy felt now ; and when Mr. Johnston
drew him aside, and told him that he was
to part from this poor mother of his, and
he was to do it affectionately, he could
hardly give his mind to it, though he was

left alone with her. But her distress was
Hke his distress, though it was from a
different cause.

'' It's hard, mj son," she sobbed, " to
come from the other side the earth to see
you, and then find (I have plenty of friends
there) that you neither care to go back
with me, nor to stay with me here."

He was deep in his own painful thoughts,
and made her no reply.

But you'll call me ' mother ' once,
won't you, Lanceyy ? "

Yes, I will, mother ; you have been
kind."

^'I did the best I could."

"But I don't understand it at all,
mother."

"And I mayn't explain it to you. No;
I know it would do no good to explain it
to you." He was not listening, and she
forbore to go on; but as she sat beside
him on a sofa, she drew his head for a few

VOL. ir. p

moments on to her bosom, and he allowed
her to hold it there.

Lanceyy," she whispered, '' if you get
into a scrape again — "

'' I never will," he answered, and
groaned.

But if you did, my own only one, you'd
come to me, wouldn't you, to get you out
fit?"

"Yes," was the answer. She waited
some moments for it. Then releasing
him, he lifted his face. " Good-bye,
mother'' he said. She kissed him, and
in another moment he was gone.

Poor woman ! She looked out of the
window, and saw Mrs. Johnston step forth
from the hotel and enter a carriage which
was waiting; and then, Lanceyy having got in,
she gazed at him, till the reins where given
to Mr. Johnston, and they drove off, and
the carriage and her treasure disappeared.

He had left all his pets behind, and as

they bad consoled him while he sat disconsolate
in his lodgings, so they consoled hera
little. She took to the starling most,
because she had seen her boy at work on
his cage. She let the puppy set his little
white teeth in the trains of her gowfis, and
worry her slippers, and drag her knitting
over the floor ; and she thought about
Lanceyy, and felt how lonely she was, and
considered, as many another has done, not
only how she could have been such a
sinner, but such a fool.

And now, having made voluntary confession
so far, the boy's involuntary confession
of other delinquencies was soon made
to follow., Don John had told his father of
the suspicions which had fallen on Lanceyy,
owing to certain petty peculations, and
then of the more serious theft, followed by
his own adventure and his broken arm.

After this, as Don John believed, all had
gone well. He had hoped that Lanceyy
F 2

was cured ; and yet lieu it was found
that he had run away, just after the ten
pounds had been stolen, he could not help
dwelling on the recollection that " the
ledger's " room had been entered by
Lanceyy for a moment in order to bring
away a book.

But why — Mr. Johnston pondered —
why had he done this ? He was not a child
Trow, that he could thoughtlessly yield to
temptation not knowing the consequences.
He had felt the fear of detection, and the
bitterness of danger already. So far as was
known he did not care to hoard; could he
have risked so much misery that he might
-have ten pounds to squander away ?

Thinking thus, and pursuing his advantage
now that Lanceyy was penitent and
crestfallen, Mr. Johnston pressed him
with questions. One admission soon led
to another. Lanceyy did not dare to prevaricate,
and very soon the miserable story

of his last fall found out by the boy who
was now his tyrant was told. He had concealed
this from Don John as he now declared
because he could not bear to be despised
by him. Don John had no idea of
the misery he had gone through, constant
threats of exposure hanging over his head.

"And it can never be put an end to'*
sighed poor Lanceyy; "he will soon write
to me again."

Oh yes, it can be put an end to. Where
is his last letter?" asked Mr. Johnston.
Did you leave it behind in your desk ? "

"Xo, father, I was afraid it would be found.
He is at the seaside now, and when I got
the post-office order for him, I put it in my
pocket to be sure that I sent it to the
right address."

Give it to me."

Lanceyy produced it, and Donald John-stone
having read it sealed it up. " Now
you can write to this fellow," he said. " Tell

him you have made full confession of
everything' to your father, who has taken
his last letter from you. ' He remarked,'
you can say ' that at first he thought of
sending that letter to your father, but that
on second thoughts if you at once wrote tome
promising that under no circumstances
should I ever hear from you again, he
should not do so — for if your father was
an honourable man, it would make him
miserable, while you were too old to be
flogged, and no other punishment was
likely to reach you.' "

Lanceyy looked amazed, but he wrote the
letter, and of course was delivered from
that form of bondage ever after, but he
had a good deal to endure. It was soon
explained to him that he could not go to
school again with Don John, or indeed to
any school. He was not to be trusted, he
might disgrace himself and the family that
had adopted him. '* Father always used

to say that Don John and I shonkl both
be articled to him," he remarked to Mrs.
Johnston.

"So you shall," she answered, "if he
has every reason to believe you are quite
cured. I pray to God every day, Lanceyy,
that you may be cured."

Mrs. Johnston in fact never admitted
the least doubt that he would be cured.
She was ardently hopeful, and always
loving; taught him a prayer against his
besetting sin which he promised to say
night and morning, and did all she could
to make him ashamed of his propensity
and afraid of himself.

But Lanceyy was not taken home, he
was sent to be the private pupil of a
clergyman, to whom his fault was duly
confided, and who watched him, prayed
with him, and also taught him. It was
not so pleasant as being at school with
Don John and many other boys for companions,

but lie was there shielded from
temptation, and he also knew and felt that
he was watched. Besides the frequent letters
both from father and from mother had
some effect upon him, while every now and
then his new mother as he called her wrote
to him by permission, and always sent him
a very handsome "tip," which, by way of
being candid and truthful, he mentioned
in his letters home; he had thus always
plenty of money, as well as absence of
temptation, and he appeared to himself to
loathe the sin of theft, because the constraint
and distrust it had brought upon
him were always in his way.

He longed for his home, and even for
his sisters and Charlotte, whom he had not
specially cared for ; but at the end of the
year he did not go home.

The Johnston came as they had done
several times already to see their adopted
son, and brought Don John with them;

and they told him he should take a tour
with them and Don John on the continent,
but that they could not let him be with
his sisters, and close to the scene of his
last delinquency at present.

So he was still during these holidays to
be exclusively with those who knew of his
faults. Well, he thought, he did not much
care — anything to get away from this dull
place, and if he was still to be exhorted,
to enjoy at least a change of exhortation.

Lanceyy was grown, and was a fine,
good-looking fellow. There was something
not unpleasing to him in the deep,
loving anxiety of them all for his welfare.
It made him so important; and as his
moral sense was weak, he did not despise
or reproach himself so much as to diminish
his enjoyment of the holiday tour. He
had done very wrong. It would have
been strange if after so many tears, such
fervent prayers, such tender letters, such

loving care, so much as this had not been
impressed on his mind. He said to himself
that he should never do such a thing
as that again of course. The consequences
had been very unpleasant and the risk
very great. Besides father had taken great
pains to let him know that he would never
be poor — never want, for that he should
leave him a provision by no means to be
despised ; and the new mother had expressly
told him that everything she had
would be his.

Lanceyy was seventeen years old and
perfectly cured in the opinion of everybody
when at length his eyes lighted
on his old home again, and he saw with
delight and surprise the two grown-up
sisters, and Charlotte, and the old garden,
and the still prized and unaltered playroom.

He might have come home a year ago,
but that the so-called "new mother"
pleaded so sorely to have him during the

midsummer vacation, that she was allowed
to do so. She crammed as many pleasures
as she could think of for him into the
time, and sent him back loaded with
presents, but to her sore discomfort he
was just as urgent the following year to
be allowed to go home as she had been to
be allowed to see him. Home he went
accordingly, and was every hour aware
that it was a different home. There had
been a tiresome, shy child in that former
home called Charlotte — a child who teazed
him and whom he teazed, that child's frock
was always crumpled, her hair, like a mat
or a bird's nest as he had loved to declare,
used to hang over her forehead ; she often
pouted. He remembered that she had
always possessed most beautiful blue Irish
eyes with long black lashes, and that he
had not cared about them the least in the
world.

Charlotte — well, this was Charlotte now

Don Jolin called her five feet nothing -—
in fact, she was a small creature and
looked specially so among the tall young
John stones.

Charlotte, the morning after Lanceyy
came home, was sitting at the schoolroom
table writing, her rosebud mouth pouting,
and her lashes hiding the blueness beneath.
What a pretty little figure she had.

Charlotte was very youthful looking;
Don John, only seventeen, looked much
older. Charlotte was his little slave, and
still his partner in the minutes. Lanceyy
rather wondered to see him order her
about. He observed what a charming air
and manner she had — how the small waist
was graced with an ample chatelaine. He
thought she had a pretty gown on, and
admired the little feet which in their trim
slippers were perched on the cross-bar
under the table.

Poetess ! " the voice of Don John was

heard to shout from the garden below.
Charlotte was too deep in thought to
answer — her fingers were inked. She took
up a bit of blotting-paper and dried them
on it, and looked at the tips of them, but
as if her thoughts were far away. Her lips
moved. " She's muttering her poetry,"
thought Lanceyy, very much amused, and in
another moment Don John burst in.
Wasting the morning in this way, Charlotte,"
he exclaimed ; *' and Lanceyy has
never even seen the new pony carriage."
Charlotte turned her dreamy eyes upon
him and gradually woke up. '' Here you
sit all in a bunch with your shoulders upto
your ears — like a yellow-hammer singing
on a rail — what are you doing ? — some of
your rubbish of course."

I was only putting a bit of Chaucer into
modern English, for the minutes."

Modern fiddlestick ! — come on Lanceyy,
and you too, Charlotte. They've found

three snakes in the dairy, and one of them
was drinking the milk." Charlotte sighed,
she was writing of thoughts and things
which had never come near her yet, excepting
in a poetic vision.

I inst copy it out first," she said,
or I shall never remember how it goes."

Don John sat down to wait with a
tolerably good grace, and he too came in
for a share of Lanceyy's observation.

Don John would have been a difficult
person to describe to one who had not seen
him — he was neither short nor tall, he was
neither handsome nor plain, he was not
graceful, he was not awkward. He had
extremely light hair, light eye-brows, a
specially open, sweet-tempered expression,
a good many freckles about his face and
on his hands, extremely white teeth, and
twinkling eyes full of fun. In manner, he
was blunt, in behaviour to his sisters he
was affectionate, but peremptory — as yet

it was firmly fixed in his mind that " the
masculine gender is worthier than the
feminine ;" he was lord and master at
home, reigned over Charlotte more despotically
than over any of the others — scarcely
perceived at present that she was grown
np, admired and loved his mother above
all creatures, and looked on most young
ladies not related to him, as mistakes of
nature and bores.

Charlotte with her pretty head on one
side and her eyebrows slightly elevated,
copied out her version.

'' Still for your sake — by night I wake —

and sigh,
By day I am near — so sore my fear —

to die,
And to all this — no care I wis — ye

deign,
Though mine eyes two — never for you —

be dry ;

And on your ruth— and to your truth —

I cry.
But well away — too far be they — to

attain,
So planning me — on destiny — amain,
I mourn, nor find — how to unbind — my

chain,
Knowing my wit — so weak is it — all

vain.

Think on your name — why do (for

shame) — ye so,
For it shall be — thou shalt this dree —

sweet foe.
And me think on — in such wise gone —

this day.
That love you best — (God, Thou hottest)

alway'*

A deep groan from Don John. " Oh, very
well," exclaimed Charlotte, " if I am not
to finish it now, I never shall."

*' Of all the unreasonableness in this
world," replied Don John, '' there's no
unreasonableness like that of you people
who pretend to be poets." He looked round
the room. *' And what's the good of
poetry ? " he burst forth.

Charlotte felt a certain fitness in Don
John's honest indignation and sincere
scorn ; she wiped her pen.

I never said it was any good," she
pleaded — " only I cannot help writing it."

Even when there are snakes in the
dairy ! and you are expressly told of it."

Yes, I do want to see the snakes,"
said Charlotte. *' Why do you try to make
out that I don't care about interesting
things ? "

VOL. II.

CHAPTER TV.

The young people now ran down into the
dairy, where three snakes were twisting
themselves about under a wire meat-safe,
while Marjorie and Naomi, standing well
away from it with their backs against the
wall, held their skirts with needless care,
and regarded the silvery things with distrust
and curiosity.

Little Mary, the only creature about the
place who could still be considered a child,
was perched upon the slate shelf.

Lanceyy and Don John poked slender
skewers between the wires of the safe, and
Charlotte no sooner heard the snakes hiss
in acknowledgment of this attention than

lie sprang on the top of a covered bread-pan,
and demanded to be saved, to be seton
the shelf beside Mary, to be got out of
their way.

"They're perfectly harmless," said Mary,
looking down from her elevation with complacency
; but she took special care to
keep high above them.

Charlotte, by the help of Lanceyy's hand,
perched herself beside Mary, and began to
feel safe and brave till the cook, coming in,
said to Don John, —

** I hope, sir, you are certain sure there
are no more of the artful things lurking
about on the top shelf ? "

'' The top shelf!" cried Charlotte, "how
could there be any there ? "

"Oh, no," said Don John, "there are no
more ; and, besides, I told you they were
perfectly harmless."

The cook put her hand on her side.
No peace have I had in this place at all,"
G 2

she remarked, *' since you said, sir, it was
a popular error, — ' Cook,' you said, ' it's a
popular error to think of a snake as if it
couldn't glide up a steep slope.' I've been
in here for milk and eggs times out of
number as innocent as could be, and have
heard a kind of rustling, and little thought
the deceitful things were perhaps lolling
their heads over and looking at me."

All the girls shivered in sympathy.

But there it is, young ladies, when
once you let yourself down — begging your
pardon for saying it — let yourself down
to go into the country (being London-born
and one that ought to know better), why,
you can never tell what may happen."

Hiss — s — s " again.

"And me always taught that they lived
in dung-hills, the only proper place for
them, and then to hear that Mr. Don John
with his own hands, pulled two out of
Mrs. Carbon's thatch, that they used to

climb up to by the ivy — and found a long
string of leathery eggs as well — such a
respectable woman as Mrs. Clarboyis too! "

They didn't require a reference as to
character when they went to lodge there,"
said Don John.

And hadn't need, sir," cried the cook,
smiling. "I should hope the wickedest
family that ever lived was-too good for
such reptile things as they."

Mrs. Carbon's roof comes down at
the back of her house to within three feet
of the ground, and the old ivy is almost as
thick as tree trunks, they got up it both
here and there ; a snake must be a fool
indeed if he cannot climb that."

'' Instead of which he is rather cunning,"
observed Lanceyy.

•' Yes," said Charlotte, knitting her
pretty brow into a thoughtful frown,
*' cunning, but not so cunning as to lead
one to any painful doubts or speculations.

I have never supposed that snakes were
reasonable creatures."

Lanceyy looked up surprised. " Reasonable
creatures ! " lie exclaimed.

Oh, it's only one of her theories she's
alluding to," said Don John, " read our
minutes, and you'll see."

The cook now retired, having certain
matters to attend to, and Don John, having
managed to push a flat piece of tin under
the wires, carried away the snakes. Marjorie
and Naomi followed, but Lanceyy
had found some curds on a dish and set it
between Charlotte and Mary, who were still
perched on the shelf, and, helping himself
also, sat down on a wooden stool, and
thought how pretty Charlotte looked.
Charlotte, in one respect much resembled
her mother, her mind was full of speculations,
and in general she was ready to
discuss any of them with any person at
any time.

Lancej wanted to hear her talk, so lie
said, '* How about the reasonable creatures
? "

"Oh," answered Charlotte, "I think that
though we are in this globe at the head of
the reasonable creatures, there are at least
two other races that have reason and are
able to commit sin."

Queer ! " thought Lanceyy. Her speech
had so much surprised him that he had
attended to it, no less than to the well-favoured
face that looked down earnestly at
him, and to the shapely curves of her lips.

Do you think they are responsible,
then ? " he exclaimed.

I said ' can commit sins,' so I suppose
they are responsible — ants, for instance."

They're so small," pleaded Lanceyy,
amazed.

'' They are not in any degree worth
mentioning smaller than we are — I mean
with relation to the size of the globe on

which we live and they live. In my own
mind the more I think it over the more I
feel that I ought not to shrink from the
notion that they are responsible creatures."
'' But what are their sins, Charlotte ? "
They go to war, planning murderous
raids beforehand, they take slaves in battle,
both living ants which they make slaves,
and eggs which they hatch, and bring
up the young as thralls — as subject
races. But what makes me mainly sure
that they are responsible is that they are
punished just as we are, but more severely,
through these very crimes. The eagle is
not punished for stealing the lamb and
picking out its eyes. The pike, for anything
we can find out to the contrary, swallows
a whole family of young fishes, and does
not know he's a cannibal. They are not
punished, but the ants are, for having used
themselves to be fed, cleaned, and waited on
by their slaves, they absolutely lose the

power to do these things for themselves,
so that if the slaves get away or die, they
die too."

'' And why may not all that be instinct ? "
said Lanceyy, cogitating.

'*If it were — which still I think it cannot
be — what do you say to their having domestic
animals just as we have ? We have
tame creatures, flocks that yield us milk ;
so have they."

"It's queer certainly," said Lanceyy.

If they were as large as we are, it
would seem queerer still ; we were ignorant
of it all for a very long time because they
are so small. But only fancy, Lanceyy, if
they were as large as bullocks, and we met
them every now and then driving their
unlucky prisoners home, taking them to
their underground dens and keeping them
there, what a queer sensation it would
give us ! And then when we walked forth
and saw them milking their flocks, the

question is, whether it would be more
strange to us than to see us milking ours
would be to them."

But if they have reason," said Lanceyy,
"why cannot they communicate with us? "

'' I don't know : most likely because one
of their senses is different from ours, on
purpose to keep us apart — they are deaf.
I suppose if we had not only no hearing,
but no consciousness of such a sense as
hearing, we should have no real knowledge
of one another, and none of other races."

Does one sense less, then, make all the
difference?"

'' Oh, I did not say one sense less. If we
had the greater and more perfect faculty
that they possess, we should be very
superior to our present selves, and be able
to communicate also with them. It is our
disability that keeps us back, not theirs ;
and one strange difference must strike
every one. Language, which we address

to the sense of hearing, often deceives —
it is inadequate and often false as well —
but that direct touch by means of which
they communicate seems to cause the
actual flow of one mind into the other.
We have no reason to think it can deceive,
we do not suppose that they can lie to one
another. In a minor sense they may be
said on touching to ' know even as they
are known.' "

"Yes, but all insects communicate by
the touch — are all responsible ? "

Why should they be, any more than
all beasts and birds are responsible because
they can all hear ? "

But I think if they are reasonable
creatures," said Lanceyy, " it's an odd thing
that they never try to communicate with us."

Do we ever make any systematic
efforts to communicate with them ? "

Lanceyy laughed, the question seemed
hardly worth answering.

"And how do we know," continued Charlotte,
'' that they never have made efforts to
communicate with us ? They too may have
come to the conclusion that we have
reason. How do we know what little
longing crafty signs they may, after long
consultation, have put out, hoping to
attract our notice ? "

'* They may wish to let us know," said
Mary, " that they don't like to be trodden
on. I never tread on them since Charlotte
wrote of their ways in the minutes. Don
John says perhaps the negro ants have
found out that we have emancipated our
negroes, and hope we shall some day by
moral force get their masters to emancipate
them."

Yes," said Charlotte, who was very
truthful, " but Don John only wrote
that in the minutes for a joke. He has
no sympathy at all with the movement
at least with my cogitations as to

how, if they have reason, we can possibly
find out how to communicate with them.
I ought not to call it a movement yet !
But is it not a most extraordinary thing,
Lanceyy, that considering what millions of
worlds Almighty God has made, and considering
the almost infinite vastness of
space, that He should appear to act as if
space was very precious, and He wished to
make the most of it ? How crowded this
world is — every inch turned to account as
it were ! So many races under, over, and
beside one another. Only think, if all the
suns and worlds and moons should be as
full as our world is, and all different ! "

"It is strange," answered Lanceyy. " I
suppose she will have a lover some day," he
thought ; " how it will stump that unlucky-fellow,
if she breaks forth to him in such
discourse as this !"

And which do you think is the third
race of reasonable creatures ? " he asked.

Oh," said Charlotte, " I think the observant
mind often gets hints of some such
race, but I do not think it is visible to our
eyes as at present constituted. I mean a
race not angelic nor demoniacal — but that
we (knowing so little of it) are inclined asa
rule to be afraid of."

'* Oh ! " said Lance j.

They're skinned!" exclaimed Don John,
putting his head in, and he and Lanceyy
darted off together.

''Oh, you cruel boy!" exclaimed Charlotte,
for she knew it was the snakes that
had been referred to.

Then she and Mary jumped down from
the shelf, and Charlotte went and finished
the minutes.

Lanceyy, in spite of the joy with
which he had looked forward to coming
home, found that thorns which had
grown up in his absence encompassed the
roses there.

Things were now and then said which
made him feel hot ; he was not always so
much at ease as he could have wished.
There were some places that he did not
want to visit, some people whom he did not
care to see. And yet he would question
with himself as to whether his brothers and
sisters would not think it strange if he refrained
from going to those very places,
would not have their attention attracted
towards him as acting oddly if he did not
expressly seek those very people.

It was easy enough to go with Don John
and see Lady Louisa, and hear her somewhat
tedious talk about her children's
delicate chests, and how she thought of
spending the next winter at Nice, because
Evelyn, the eldest son, had too long a
neck.

Lanceyy bore a great deal of discussion
as to sloping shoulders and the said long
neck, almost with complacency. It stirred

no uneasy recollections. He rose up to be
measured by Mr. Yiser as a proof that he
was not taller than Evelyn.

Then he and Don John stood an examination
as to their health. Their experiences
were mainly negative. They did not
feel by any means disinclined for their
breakfast. They did not feel giddy when
they read. They never heard any drumming
in their ears, and they did not lie
awake at night.

Lady Louisa sighed.

Then Don John burst forth with, —

If Evelyn had no work to do in the
holidays, he would not feel giddy."

Evelyn nudged Don John in a fitful,
weak way, and Don John responded to
the nudge by saying, —

"And German is one of the hardest
things a fellow can have to get up."

Oh," said Lady Louisa, " but Evelyn
ia devoted, perfectly devoted, to his German,

and to the Herr Professor ; lie quite
enjoys his eight hours a day."

Evelyn, fixed by his mother's eye, gave
the answer expected of him, but added,
with a natural sigh, and in a piping voice, —

But I wanted to dig out those water-votes
with them''

Ashen Lady Louisa remonstrated, " But
3'ou would get your feet wet, my boy,"
the long-necked student succumbed, and
Don John and Lanceyy made no observation.

The wild ass tossing his mane in the
desert is so different from the flounder
flopping on his mud-bank, that he cannot
hope to understand him and his fashions.

'Yet his feet. Ugh!" thought Don
John.

'^ I think Evelyn a very nice boy, poor
fellow," said Charlotte, as they were walking
home, " and extremely clever. I like
him."

Oh, yes, of course," answered Don

VOL. II. H

John. " ' Like loves like,' as the old maid
said, when she bought the primrose. You'll
be an old maid, Charlotte, I know you
will."

Yes, I know I shall," said Charlotte, a
little ruefully. " There's no abstract reason
but — "

Nonsense 1 " Lanceyy exclaimed ; " why,
Charlotte is as pretty as — as anything."

Don John looked at Charlotte critically.

She's just as pretty — you're just as
pretty as some girls who are sure to be
married, Charlotte," he remarked encouragingly.
" It's not that."

But you've often said I was improved
since Fetch wrote me those letters," said
Charlotte.

Don John rejoined, —

'' Fetch is a sensible fellow. I always
thought there was a good deal in him.'^^

He did not show his sense in wanting
to alter Charlotte," said Lanceyy, hotly, and

easily perceiving that Don John had written
the letters himself.

'^ You don't know much about Charlotte
yet. You've not heard her dash into abstract
questions, and developed her theories
to fellows when they come to call."

Here Charlotte blushed consciously, and
Lanceyy laughed.

Then Don John said, " 'What's the joke? '
as the ghost asked of the laughing hyena.
Dear sir,' he answered, ' you can't see a
joke in the dark.' But is this fellow in the
dark ? Charlotte, your blushes testify
against you ! Mary, I now feel that I've
done my duty by you — this is meant for a
Sam Weller."

Oh," said Mary, "it's very nice, Lanceyy,
to hear him sometimes remember i:}Oor
Fetch and Sam. Don John, you're so
grand now you know you're to be articled
to father directly — you hardly ever come
into the playroom at all. When I sprained
H 2

my arm, you did Fetch for me every day,
and Sam too — "

They were now close to the back of the
house, and a piano was heard, together with
two fresh young voices singing a duet.
They were not both ladies' voices.

There lie is spooning again," said Don
John, '^ and Naomi playing for them. No,
Mary, I am always telling you that I
cannot do Sam Weller for you whenever I
please. But I'll dance three times with
you round this geranium bed, if you like, to
Naomi's tune. Now, then, ' Do you polkas
the Ornithorhyncus Paradoxes said at
an evening party when they introduced him
to the blue-faced baboon."

And what did the blue-faced baboon
say?"

"She replied that she would dance because
she wished to conform to the usages
of society, but that she preferred swinging
from a bough by her tail, because that

amusement was so much more intellectual."


"How jolly he is!" thought Lanceyy,
'' nothing to conceal, nothing on his mind."
"When are we going to see the people in
the houses ? " he asked aloud, for he was
impelled by dislike to an inevitable visit,
to have it over as soon as possible.

Oh, whenever you like. Shall it be
after lunch? "

So some time after lunch, Don John and
Lanceyy, with Mary and Charlotte, set forth.
Lanceyy would have felt more easy if they
had been a larger party, but it appeared
that there was important practising to be
done. Two tenors and a harytone had
arrived : each evidently thought his voice
suited best with Marjorie's. Naomi stayed
behind to play for them.

And how does the new boiler do, Mrs.
Carbon?" asked Don John, when the first
greetings were over, and Lanceyy had been

assured that lie was almost grown out of
knowledge.

'soil, sir, it goes lovely — lovely it does
but it's rather slow of heating — shall I
light it now, sir, and show you ? "

Yes, do, and Lacey, you sit on the
top and let us know when the water boils.
You won't ? Well, I never knew such a
disobliging fellow ! and when you've been
away so long too."

*' Master Don John, he's always full of
his jokes," said Mrs. Carbon.

"And how is Miss Jenny to-day?" asked
Charlotte.

Thank you kindly for asking, miss ;
and pore Jenny feels herself better this
afternoon. It's a great comfort to her
our niece being with us." Here she made
a show of introduction between Charlotte
and a pretty young woman in a close cap.
"My niece Letty Fane, miss; she is a
trained nurse, and understands Jenny's

nerves. Yes, Letty was in a regular hospital,
Miss Charlotte, but she has taken a
situation in a workhouse now."

*' You must find that a pleasant change,"
said Charlotte.

Ma'am," answered the young woman,
with an aggrieved air, "nothing of the
sort, I find it very dull, there are no operations."


"But she thought it her duty to take
the situation, having a widowed mother to
help, and there being better pay," observed
Mrs. Carbon.

After this Letty Fane went upstairs,
taking with her some food for the sick
aunt, but her account of herself and her
tastes had cast a chill over the guests, and
Charlotte presently rose to take leave,
Lanceyy alone remaining behind to slip a
little present of money into Mrs. Carbon 's
hand for the benefit of the sick sister.

Mrs. Carbon accepted it gracious'.

'rand I am sure, sir," she remarked,
I'm right glad to see you at last. I've
often said to pore Jenny, ' Depend on it,
this is only for a time.' They'll forgive
Master Lanceyy in the end, and have him
back."

It was very wrong of me to run away
from home," said Lanceyy, with apparent
candour. " I have long been very sorry
I did it."

A look of indescribable intelligence
darted into Mrs. Carbon's eyes. She had
the air of one who feels that she knows
more than she wishes to know, and would
fain hide it. She coloured deeply. " Yes,
sir," she answered, without looking at
him, and then added hastily, "And how
might that lady be — her that we used to
call the lodger?" Then she looked at
him. He had drawn back a little, and
seemed abashed. So she hurriedly went
on : " You find all a good deal growed up

about us, sir, you and Mr. Don Jolin;
while you're away at school, or at college,
or where not, the trees grow on ; we
shall be almost smothered in them soon."

'' Yes," said Lanceyy, looking about him
rather forlornly. " Well, good afternoon,
Mrs. Carbon," and he withdrew.

There were the others standing at
Salisbury's door a little farther on.

Oh, what should he do ? Surely Mrs.
Carbon knew something, or at least suspected
something ; but it was manifest
that no hint had ever reached the girls.
He went on to join the party — he must, or
they would wonder why.

'* Good afternoon, sir," said Salisbury,
with a certain gravity as Lanceyy thought.
Presently Mrs. Salisbury came out, and
she too said, ' Good afternoon, sir ; ' and
Lanceyy, who had intended to be patronizing
and pleasant, found that he had
not a word to sav. That visit was made

very short, and Lancej took special care
not to be left one moment behind the
others.

The manner and the words together
amounted to so little — a look in one casein
the other a certain grave restraint. Is
a boy who runs away to sea met in that
fashion by cottagers several years after,
when his withdrawal has been no concern
of theirs ?

Lanceyy considered this matter, and could
not feel at his ease. He took the first
opportunity to ask Don John, —

*' I suppose none of the people about
here know anything about that — about
the unlucky time of my running
away?"

'' Of course not," said Don John, with
conviction.

But they might suspect something."

How nervous you are ! They know
that Mrs. Collingwood is your mother.

Father told them. They know nothing
more."

*' "Were you present when he told them?"

"Yes, and they all behaved like country
bumpkins as they are. They held up their
hands, and some of them said, ' Law, you
don't say so, sir.' "

And none of them said anything about
her having lost anything ?"

I particularly remember that not one
said a word about it."

'' Well, then, I think that was rather
odd ! "

''Xo, there was nothing odd in the
manner of any of them. If they had
known, they must have betrayed the knowledge."


I consider that the poor are far better
actors than we are. They knew father
must hope they had found out nothing (I
always hate myself when I think of the
shame he felt about it). They like both

father and mother ; they may have knowii,
and yet have spared them."

Nobody knows anything," repeated
Don John, yet more decidedly ; " you're
saved, dear old fellow, this once. Only
hold your head up, or you'll excite surprise,
and make people think there is something
wrong."

Chapter Y.

Lanceyy was still glad to be at home. He
admired his two sisters ; he thought his
mother more beautiful than ever, and yet
the pleasure of those holidays was made
dim by his growing certainty that " the
Lodger's " loss and his disappearance were
in some way connected together in the
minds of his humble friends.

Don John was of an open, joyous nature.
He was devoted and most dutiful to his
father and mother ; his abilities were not
by any means above the average, but he
was blessed with a strong desire to do his
best. He was to leave school and be
articled to his father ; there was no talk of

his going to the University. He was delighted
at this, but he well knew that it
arose from a change in his father's circumstances,
not from any desire to please him that
he was to escape from the hated Latin and
Greek, and take to more congenial studies.
Don John accepted all his father's decisions
as if they had been the decrees of fate ; he
was no whit more thoughtful than most
youths of his age, but he had somewhat
unusual observation of character — he could
make his influence felt at home, and much
of his talk was seasoned with a peculiar
humour. The friends of the family considered
him to be a youth of great promise ;
so he was in a certain sense, and a thorough
good fellow ; but though he worked fairly
well at school, and may almost be said to
have done his best, he never brought home
one prize during his whole career excepting
for good conduct, while Lanceyy scarcely
ever came home without one or two.

And Mr. Johnston, having looked over
their papers, always expressed himself to
the full as much pleased with Don John as
with Lanceyy, sometimes more so. Neither
boy was surprised. This was only justice,
and they forthwith subsided into the places
that nature had intended for them. In the
schoolroom Don John ruled just as naturally
as he took the head of the table ; he
headed the expeditions ; if there was any
blame, it all fell on him. If any treat was
to be obtained he went and asked for it. If
any one of the jDarty in childhood had committed
an accidental piece of mischief of a
flagrant nature, such as letting a pony down
and breaking its knees, or making a great
smash of greenhouse glass, Don John,
whoever had been the delinquent, was always
deputed to go and make confession,
and he generally began thus : *' Father, I'm
sorry to say loe^ve done so and so"

Lanceyy was almost as much loved as

Don Jolin, but lie was neither feared nor
looked up to; be did as lie liked, and was
great in criticism, but not in command.

Lanceyy spent many an your in thought
during those holidays. He perceived that
circumstances gave him a certain power.
There was a great deal of cunning in his
nature, he felt a little ashamed of Mrs.
CoUingwood because, as he perceived, " she
was not a lady." He had always been told
that in the course of time he should be articled
to the father who had adopted him ;
but he had hoped for several years at Cambridge,
where he should do much as he
liked. Still he wished to be under Mr.
Johnston's charge rather than under Mrs.
CoUingwood' s. Such love as he had in his
nature he bestowed on the Johnston,
specially on Mrs. Johnston and Don
John.

But his first visit to '* the houses "
changed everything. He could not bear

to think of being so near to those people,
feeling sure as he did that they were aware
of his delinquency.

Another inevitable visit soon took place,
and set the matter at rest in his opinion.
He was sure they knew, just as sure as
that his sisters did not.

And the servants ? Had they, too, been
made partakers of Mrs. Carbon's and Mrs.
Salisbury's suspicions ? He longed to live
at home " again, but his fault had risen
up and faced him when he hoped it was
dead and buried. Why, rather than walk
home through that field three or four times
every week, he thought he could almost
find it in his heart to run away again !

But there would be no need for that ;
he would write to Mrs. Collingwood,
and make use of her to get his own
way.

So he did, he never called her mother,
and he was not base enough to use more

vol. ir. r

expressions of affection than just enough
as he thought to serve his end.
This was his letter : —

My dear Mamma,

'' When you wrote to me about going on
the continent to travel with you for a whole
year, I did not consent to ask father's
leave, for in the first place I knew from
Don John that he would not give it, for he
meant to article me to himself; and in the
next, of course I like better to be with my
own family — the Johnston I mean, of
course, — than with you.

'' But you are very kind, and I am not so
happy here as I expected — because I am
quite sure those people in the houses know
about IT. You understand what I mean.
And so, mamma, if you like, I'll go the
tour with you. I know I sh:il be disagreeable
and cross to you sometimes
when I think that I'm away from them.

but that I can't help, and I can liarclly
bear to Trite this letter, but I must.

"I think the best tiling will be for you
to write to father (not telling that I wrote
this), and ask him if I may travel with you
you have said several times that if he
wished one thing and I wished the same,
you had no chance ; but I think if you wish
one thing and I wish the same, he will
have no chance ; but mind, mamma, if he is
very angry and will not consent, I am off
the bargain.

^' I am, yours affectionately,

L. AlED.''

In a few days a letter was written to
Mr. Johnston by Mrs. Collingwood, just
such a letter as Lanceyy had suggested,
and when the adopted son was told that
the plan was out of the question he seemed
much disappointed.

*' You must either be articled to me or you
I 2

must go to Cambridge, you cannot afford to
waste a whole year on idle pleasure. It is
my duty to see that you are put in the way
to earn a comfortable living — "

*' But I shall have four hundred a year,"
pleaded Lanceyy rather dejectedly.

How do you know that ? what makes
you think so ?

Oh, father, Mrs. Collingwood always
says that of course what she has will all
come to me."

She is young, she may marry again."

'* She says she never will."

'' "Well, grant that. Do you think I
married, and that I bring^up my family, on
four hundred a year ?

•'^N^o, father."

"^^ Or on treble that sum ? "

^ a Perhaps I shall have something more*'

Of course you will. We need not
go into that question. There ! forget this
letter, it will not do — I wish to have you

under mj own eyes, and living here, at
home."

But the people in the houses know itJ^

'' Know what ?" exclaimed Donald John-stone,
forgetting for the moment what
Lanceyy meant.

'' Father, must I tell you what ? "

No reply was made to this, the suggestion
that his poor neighbours knew what
Lanceyy had done was as gall and wormwood
to Donald Johnston.

Mayn't I wait a year, and then perhaps
you'll go back to Harley Street, and I
could be articled to you, and not be in their
neighbourhood."

*' No ; I shall never go back to Harley
Street. I am not nearly so well ofP, my
boy, as I was in your childhood.

And yet you say that I shall have more
than four hundred a year."

There was a long pause. Then Lanceyy
said, —

"Father will you tell me one tiling?"
And before any answer could be made, lie
went on : " My fatter, Lancelot Airdd, did
be — did be save your life ? "

]^o," said Mr. Johnston. He felt as
if be bad been taken at a disadvantage by
this sudden question, but be little supposed
that Lanceyy bad long meditated asking it.

Then be must bave done you some
great — some very great kindness, surely,
father."

No," said Mr. Johnston, " be did
not?"

When you last saw him, did you promise
him that you would bring me up? "

Had the secret been kept so long to be
drawn forth by such a simple question as
that ; such a natural question, one that it
seemed a son might surely have a right to
ask ? Donald Johnston scarcely knew, but
be looked at Lanceyy ; be was impelled to
answer, and could not help it.

'' I never made Lancelot Airdd any promise
of any sort."

He T\'as not brought up with you ? "
said Lanceyy in a faintly questioning tone.

'' No."

When did you first meet with him, then,
father?"

I never met with him at all."

Lanceyy, on hearing this, hung his head.
It was not for his father's sake, then, that
he had been brought up.

You have made a mistake, you see,"
said Donald Johnston, in a low voice.
You have got an answer to a question
which sooner or later you almost must
have asked, and it is a shock to you.
There is another that you now desire to
ask, but it pleases me to observe that you
cannot do it. I will ask it and answer
it for you. It is, I think, ' When did
you first meet with Lancelot Airdd's
wife.' "

Lanceyy, who had coloured deeply, did
not move or lift up his face.

'' I first met with her at a time of deep
distress, when my son was about ten days
old, and there was every reason to fear that
I. should lose his mother. I went once into
her darkened room to look at her, and as
my eyes grew accustomed to the gloom, I
saw seated at the foot of her bed a young
woman in a widow's dress, who had my
poor little infant son in her arms. She rose
and curtseyed when she saw me, and I
perceived at once that she was the wet
nurse of whom I had been told, and who
had been engaged. She was nursing
Donald. The first time, then, that I saw
her, was when her child was about two
months old."

Lanceyy, for the moment, was overcome
with bashf fulness, but when Mr. Johnston
said with a sigh, " I am not displeased
with you, my boy," he put his two hands

on the adopted father's hand as it was
lying near there on the table, and leaned
his face on it and kissed it. Then he said
with a better, sweeter expression than had
dawned on his face for a long time, —

*' I am glad you are such a good man,
father, but — but that only makes it more
wonderful that I should be here, and that
you should be so fond of me. Why, when
I was a little fellow I used always to think
you were even more fond of me than of
Donald."

Did you, my dear boy ? I am exceedingly
attached to you, Lanceyy ; and
when you went wrong, and I was told
of that former delinquency, I lost my
spirits. I became ill."

But I'm cured," pleaded Lanceyy, with
a sob.

Yes, I thank God for that hope. And
now you perceive that by this conversation
you have learned certain things ; you took

me at a disadvantage, and I spoke. You
had meditated for some time asking these
questions ?"

Yes, father," said Lanceyy.

'^ I advise you, as loving you, which I
have proved, and as deserving well of
youth,

yes, father."

I advise you not to ask any more, but
rather to court ignorance. Let things be,
my boy. Even Donald is not more welcome
to everything I can do for him than
you sire. Let that satisfy you, Lanceyy."

I will let things be," said Lanceyy, in a
low voice. " Father, if I never thanked
you and mother /or all this all these years,
it must have been because till Mrs. Col-logwood
appeared it seemed so natural I
should have it, that I never thought about
it — any more than the others did."

Nothing else that you could possibly
have said — nothing ! — would have pleased

me as much as this does ! " exclaimed
Mr. John stone.

Lanceyy was surprised. He saw how
true his father's words were, that he
lead given him great pleasure. He could
not but look inquiringly at him, and thereupon,
with an effort, Donald Johnston
recalled his usual expression; and when
Lanceyy went on, " But I want to thank
you now, and to say that I am grateful,"
he answered, " That is enough, my dearest
boy. Now go. I am about to write to
Mrs. Collingwood. I am sorry she ever proposed
to you to take this tour without first
consulting me, and I must tell her it would
not suit my views respecting you."

So Lanceyy left Mr. Johnston, and even
in the going, though his heart was warmed
towards him, and he respected him more
than for some time past, yet a certain ease
of mind with which he had of late accepted
his benefits was now gone. He

wondered, as he had not been adopted for
Lancelot Airdd's sake, for whose sake it
could be ? His opinion had been highly disrespectful
also towards Mrs. CoUingwood
perhaps hardly more so than she deserved
; but the least suspicion of anything
like the truth, and that he had been adopted
for his own sake, never entered his head.

So Donald Johnston wrote to Mrs.
CoUingwood, and told her that he did
not consider a lengthened period of idleness
and pleasure at all suitable for Lanceyy
at his early age ; that he did not approve
of mere feminine supervision for a high-spirited
youth ; and that he trusted to her
known affection for him not to damage his
prospects by making the restraints of professional
life irksome to him. The first
step was now to be taken towards fitting
him for his profession. "When Mrs. Col-logwood
got this letter she was excessively
disappointed ; and then, on reading

it a second time, she was exceedingly
wrath. She felfc the galling nature of this
yoke under which she had put her neck.
Lanceyy had made her so sure she should
get her own way, that she was resolved todo
battle for it ; and she wrote, urging her
claim to his company, and begging that he
might not be forced against his will to be
frequently among people who knew of
the childish faults which he had been so
long and so severely punished for." " And
besides, sir," she continued, " you are
quite wrong if you think my dear boy has
no natural feelings towards me, his mother.
He knows his duty to you, and he strives
to do it ; but he takes it hard that he is
never to be with me, and you may depend
that I do." Then she went on : *' And I
think it is but right, sir, that you should
ask Mrs. Johnston whether she thinks I
ought to be always kept out of seeing my
dear boy. She knows what a mother's

feelings are; and, though she is always
so high with me, she will tell you that no
mother could put up with what I am
putting up with much longer*'

Of course Mrs. Johnston saw this
letter. She sighed as she folded it up.
'^ Donald, I am afraid if she will have
him, she must have him. When we met,
you carried things with a high hand, and
I hoped she did not see her own power.
Now, on reflection, I believe she does."

Yes," he answered, '' she is sure, you
are sure, and I am almost sure, Lanceyy is
hers. Let her take him for awhile, and I
think she will be appeased ; but withstand
her, and she will tell him all."

You might exact a promise from her
as the price of your consent."

Oh, a promise goes for very little, my
Star, in such a case as this. There is
nothing that we ought not to do for
Lanceyy, even to the point of telling him

ourselves, if lie was in temptation, or
seemed likely to fall again, and to know of
such a possible part in us might help to
keep him upright for our sake — only — "

'' Only," she went on, when he paused.
Only that, for the chance of elevating
him, we should be sacrificing Donald. We
should break Donald's heart."

A boy's heart is not so easily broken,"
he replied.

But he is our good boy — a very loving
son," she answered almost reproachfully.
*' Who has never made us ashamed of
him. Shall we take everything away from
him, and fill him with doubt and distress
in order to give almost nothing to the
other ? "

Not if we can help it, my dear," and
at that moment Lanceyy came into the room.
*' I've got a letter from my mamma," he
said, he would not call her mother. " She
says you do not like me to take a long tour

with her, dear father and mother, but will
I ask if I may go for one month ? " The
letter was duly read ; " one month or six
weeks " was the phrase used, and the
letter was both urgent and humble.
'' You wish to go ? "
"Yes, father, if you don't mind."
Then observing that the tender woman
whom he called mother was moved, and
that her eyes, more moist and bright than
usual, seemed to dwell on his face attentively,
Lanceyy blushed and said, " I think
I ought to pity her, for, as she often says, I
am her only child."

Mr. Johnston looked at him deliberately,
and without any tenderness of aspect, he
seemed to take a moment's time to consider
his words, then he said, " If you were
my only child, I should hardly love you
more ; certainly I could not be one whit
more anxious for your welfare. Therefore,
knowing her feelings, and considering that

lier present request is reasonable (her wish
to take yon away for a year was not), I
think if your mother agrees with me — "
Here he paused, and it pained them botha
little, when, after waiting just one short
instant for her rejoinder, he said rather
urgently, —

"Oh, mother, you always wish me to have
treats — mother, you'll let me go? "

Yes," she said, without looking at
him.

He scarcely observed her emotion, certainly
never divined that it was on his
account, but he gave her the customary
kiss they always bestowed when thanking
her for any favour, and he took out of the
room with him a vivid recollection of what
Donald Johnston had said. He felt a
little daunted by it. He knew it would bea
restraint upon him. But it was no restraint
as regarded that only point at
which just then he was in danger.

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER YI.

Well, now I have leave to go," thought
Lanceyy, looking out of the window of his
own bedroom ; '* now I have leave to go ;
and the question is, am I glad, or am I
sorry ? If it was not for the people in the
houses, of course I would never lend myself
to aid Mrs. Collingwood's plans. Is it
really only because I have not courage
enough to meet those people's looks that
I mean, to go ? Of course things would be
no better at the end of six weeks." He
reflected on a sentence written on a distinct
piece of paper and put inside her
letter by Mrs. Colhngwood : " Show this
letter, my dear, to Mr. Johnston, and I'll

manage, when we have once set out,
to keep you as long as you and me think
fit."

*^ Yes, as long as she thinks fit, whether
I Hke it or not — for I shall have no money,
I shall not even have my allowance."

He sauntered rather disconsolately down
the corridor. After that short conference
with " father and mother " he had, as it
were, dismissed himself that he might write
to Mrs. Collingwood. He looked out at
another window, and there were father and
mother in the pony carriage, and there was
Mrs. Johnston's maid behind with some
bottles and a basket.

Father " for once had taken a holiday,
and all the party were to have lunch and
afternoon tea in a wood about four miles
off. Don John and all the girls were standing
about the donkey — a babble of girls'
voices came up to him very pleasantly. The
donkey turned his head over his shoulder
K 2

with an air of discontent and disgust. Well
he might, for little Mary was seated on
his back, and Charlotte and Naomi were
filling his panniers with crockery, a tin
kettle, fruit, cakes, and all sorts of miscellaneous
prog. Lanceyy was to run after
them when he had written his letter.
Really he hardly knew now whether he
would write it or not.

He sauntered on ; the door of Mrs.
Johnston's dressing-room was open, and
he idly entered.

Lanceyy never had any evil intentions
aimless present opportunity seemed to his
weak mind to be ministering to them.

He was thinking just then, " If I once
go, then, however much I may long to get
back, I shall have no money to do it with."

There was a good large dressing-case of
Indian workmanship standing on the table
opposite to him. Often when a little fellow
he had been allowed to open it. He

remembered low mother used sometimes
to let him and Don John rub her little
amber and agate ornaments with wash-leather
when she was by. There was an
upper trajj with nothing of value in it, that
he had often helped to put to rights ; there
were some ivory hearts and some bangles in
it — how well he remembered them ! — and
there were some Indian silver butterflies,
which trembled on flowers with spiral
stems. There were two or three trays in
that box ; but when it appeared to be
empty there was a little spring somewhere
on which they used to ask mother to put
her finger, and then they used to see a
shallow drawer suddenly start forth and
display its contents.

I haven't seen it for years," thought
Lanceyy; "some old rings were there."
The colour flushed over his face ; he began
to know that he was in danger, for he did
remember again that he had no money.

He made no movement to go out of the
room, but lie half turned his head, and
so it fell out that his eyes lit on a book
which was lying face downwards on the
table. He took it up open as it was.
'mother" had evidently been reading it
before she went out.

For one instant it seemed as if, prescient
of this visit, she had put the book there
as a warning; for what was it that he
read?

'' There are two kinds of sin — wilful sin
and willing sin.

Wilful sin is that into which, because
of the frailty of our nature, because of the
strength of passion and temptation ; not
loving but loathing it, not seeking but resisting
it, not acquiescing in but fighting
and struggling against it, we all sometimes
fall. This is the struggle in which
God's Spirit strive th with our spirit, and
out of which we humbly believe and hope

that God will at the last grant unto us
victory and forgiveness.

But there is another kind of sin far deadlier,
far more heinous, far more incurable,
it is willing sin. It is when we are content
with sin ; when we have sold ourselves
to sin ; when we no longer fight against
sin ; when we mean to continue in sin.
That is the darkest, lowest, deadliest, most
irredeemable abysm of sin ; and it is well
that the foolish or guilty soul should know
that on it, if it have sunk to this, has been
already executed — self executed — the dread
mandate, 'In the day that thou latest
thereof thou shalt surely die.' "

Who wants to commit sin ? '' exclaimed
Lanceyy aloud. *' Always preach, preach,
preaching ; — I'm sick of it. And just as if
I didn't know the difference you talk of as
well as you do — or better. Wilful sin is
what we are dragged in to do for its own
sake, but willing sin is what we plan to do

for our own sakes, because it will be to our
interest at some future time. Well, I had
better go and write my letter."

But lie did not stir ; be gave the pages
of the book a flick and they turned ; he
could not stand there with no ostensible occupation,
he actually began to read again.

For first, my brethren, let us all learn
that the consequences of sin are inevitable ;
in other words, that ' punishment is but the
stream of consequence flowing on unchecked.'
There is in human nature an
element of the gambler, willing to take the
chances of things ; willing to run the risk
if the issue be uncertain. There is no such
element here. The punishment of sin is
certain. All Scripture tells us so. ' Though
hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be
unpunished.' ' The way of transgressors
is hard.' All the world's proverbs tell us
so. ' Reckless youth, rueful age.' ' Ashe
has made his bed, so he must lie in it.'

He that will not be ruled by the rudder
must be ruled by the rock.'

Even Satan himself would not deny it.
In the old legend of Dr. Flushes, when ho
bids the devil lay aside his devilish propensity
to lying, and tell the truth, the devil
answers, ' The world does me injustice
to tax me with lies. Let me ask their
consciences if I have ever deceived them
into thinking that a bad action was a good
one.' " '

Something quaint or strange or striking
impelled him to read thus far, or it may
have been that he was ordained to have
every possible warning this time ; he could
not smother his better convictions without
a long struggle, and he trembled. Something
seemed to whisper within him that
this time he could not say if he sinned
that it was on the impulse of the moment
and almost unawares.

^ Sermon by the Eev. Canon Farrar.

But lie stood stock still. He would not
go out of the room. He sighed, and the
colour faded out of his cheeks. '' But if
I was not to do it again," he whispered,
I ought never to have done it at all."

He put down the book — and went up
and opened the box, and lifted the tray
and touched the little spring.

The small box started forth at once and
displayed its contents before his eyes.

He chose out a little faded ring-case of
yellow leather he found in it. It contained
an old-fashioned, clumsy ring, a ring for a
man's finger. Perhaps about once in two
years '' mother " wore it on her middle
finger. It had belonged to her grandfather.
A handsome diamond ring. He
took it out, closed the leather case, and put
that back in its place. He pushed back
the drawer and closed the spring over it,
put down the trays, then shut the dressing-case
and walked slowly out of the room —

with the ring on his finger. " Mother does
not often leave her box unlocked," he said
to himself, '' she must have been in a
hurry."

He thought with something like dismay
of the good clergyman whose exhortations
had been such a weariness to him. Then
there flashed on his mind the only thing
that had ever been said to him that had
made an impression.

'father" had talked to him but a few
days before, and Lanceyy had without hesitation
claimed as an excuse for his sin a
propensity that he unfortunately had for
laying his hands on what he saw before
him. He was cured now—but there were
unfortunate people who could not help
stealing — and if great care had not been
taken with him — for which he was very
thankful (!) he might have become one of
them.

His mentor answered, " No, my boy, a

thousand times no — what you have suffered
from has been by no means an instinct of
covetousness, but an absence of principle."

I wished for the things," said Lanceyy
faintly.

'' But not for the mere sake of possession
— not to hide them and go in secret
to gaze at them. No, you took fruit that
you might eat it — you took money that
you might spend it. There is no powerful
instinct of acquisitiveness against you : be
afraid of the right thing, a feeble sense
of justice, a slack hold on good principle."


He remembered this now because, of all
that had ever been said to him, it had
most impressed him. He was no Klepto-
maniac, nothing of the sort. Reason
showed him that possession was good,
conscience did not govern him enough
as to how he came into possession.

He spoke within himself from time to

time as he stood in his own room, looking
out at the window.

'* It's worth about fifty pounds, that
ring."

*' Mother does not want it ; will not
know perhaps for years that it's gone."

*' But suppose it should be missed — is it
possible that they would suspect me?^'

Oh, they never would, they never
could ! " — Lanceyy was actually almost indignant
at the thought of such a thing.
He appeared to see — as if he was one of
them, how unlikely such a thing was, what
a shame it would be in their opinion. Xo,
they ought not to suspect him. In fact,
the thing was not done yet in such a way
that it could not be undone.

It was almost time to set out to follow
the family party.

I can easily put it back if I like," he
murmured. '' To rob one who has adopted
me as a son !"

It sounds bad—"

In this house particularly — "

*' But this will only be an ideal loss after
all''

If it's not found out, it can hardly be
said to have been done — "

Very likely at the end of six weeks,
having had no need to sell it, I shall bring
it back."

He that will not be ruled by the
rudder must be ruled by the rod."

I'll put it back."

'' To-morrow I'll put it back."

Before I go on my tour I'll put it back."

Well, if I mean to overtake them intime
for lunch, I must start."

He meant to put it back, but yet to keep
it in his own power till the last minute, /or
he might not have an opportunity to take it
again. Having said even this to himself,
and provided for a possible future wish to
be a thief, he went into a spare room which

was carpeted all over, lifted the carpet in
one corner, and hid the ring under it.

'* I've done it now ! " lie whispered, with
a sigh. " Well, then, they should not try to
make me live down here where that other
thing I did is known."

Perhaps I've done for myself too — "

'* Perhaps. It's Mrs. Collingwood's fault
if I have. Does she suppose I care for her,
that she suggests to me to cheat them as
if I wished to do it ? To cheat them in
order to be in her company ? "

Lanceyy walked and ran through the fair
woodlands and pastures till he came to
the place where he was to join his people.

The father and mother, as more to one
another than ever the children could be to
them, sat a little apart, and looked on
together. Two dark, eager young men
hovered about Marjorie, ambitious to help
her, desirous to absorb her notice.

Naomi and Charlotte cut up salad, Mary

held the dressing, Don John laid the cloth
on the grass and set out the viands.

'* I care for neither of those fellows, mj
star," observed Donald Johnston.

*']N"or does Marjorie," she answered;
don't disturb thyself with any fear of an
unwelcome son-in-law."

^' I suppose this sort of thing will go on
till she makes her selection among the
youth of the neighbourhood. It's rather
hard on Naomi. When first I saw you,
Estelle, you were seated just so —-just two
such aspirants heaved windy sighs in your
near vicinity. In twenty minutes I hated
them with unchristian fervour. In twenty
minutes more I loved I I was blighted ! I
had attained to the very fanaticism of
jealousy ! And I remember even now, how
a girl as graceful as Naomi and as pretty
as Charlotte stood by, and none of us took
the least notice of her. It was Leslie that
I hated most."

Poor Leslie ! " she said, with a quiet
smile ; '' 3^011 were always very jealous of
him."

He laughed.

I could find it in my heart to be jealous
of Leslie even now," he answered.

I know you could, love," was her
thought, but she only said, 'what ! when
our grown-up children are about us ?
Donald, how odd that you should have
taken it into your head to say that just
now ! "

Why just now ? "

Because I had a letter from him this
morning''

No ! "

He is coming home invalided. His
health seems to be quite broken up."

Poor fellow ! What an ass he made of
himself ! but he is a very respectable ass."

And so conscientious ! " she added, with
a little, irrepressible laugh.

VOL. II. L

He looked at her inquiringly.

After expressing this unalterable affection,
his deep respect for me, he desired
that I would show his letter to you — ' it
was only right that you should see it —
and then if you permitted it, would I write
him a few lines of sympathy ? ' There, now
read his effusion ; and Donald, you really
should not talk about being jealous of such
a foolish fellow as Leslie, even in joke."

'' I am quite aware of it, my star ; but
look at our children."

She looked, and the scene before them
often rose in the memory of both parents
afterwards. Don John was dipping water
out of a tiny clear stream with a cup, and
pouring it into a large china basin which
Naomi held, leaning towards him with
supple grace, and keeping her feet away
flora the moist brink. Don John might
now almost be called a fine youth. He
only just reached the middle height, but he

looked very strong, was well made, and had
a charming air of contentment and intelligence.
The two younger children, with
Lanceyy, were hovering about the table-cloth,
and Marjorie, with a somewhat pensive air,
sat quietly on her throne ; it was the
trunk of a fallen tree. The two lovers, one
of whom was a mere youth, a nephew of
Mr. Viser, and the other a young officer,
Campbell by name, gazed at her resplendent
robe, her exquisite gloves, underneath
which were yet more exquisite hands.
They admired the incomparable grace of
that hat with matchless feathers in it. A
small locket rose and fell on her delicate
throat, no jeweller's shop contained an
ornament so deeply to be admired.

Marjorie and her sister were dressed and
adorned precisely alike, even to the locket.
Neither of the lovers knew it, the two
looked so different in their eyes. Her hair
was the reddest brown or the brownest
L 2

red ; wherever the light struck, it looked
the precise colour of rust.

Marjorie admired a trail of honeysuckle
which depended from the bough of a tree.
Both the lovers started up to gather it;
then Campbell fell back, thinking that the
occasion promised him a moment alone
with her. Then Viser also held back ;
how could he leave her alone for that
same moment with his rival?

Mary and Master Frederick Johnston,
now thirteen years old, perfectly understood
this little scene. They burst into a
laugh of keen delight ; Lanceyy joined, and
Marjorie felt very foolish. Freddy's surprised
eyes somewhat daunted her. They
meant that it was ridiculous to have a lover,
and it was ridiculous to be a lover. They
seemed to ask what the young fools could
be thinking of, and Don John exclaimed, —

"It's all very well for a time, but 'Blow
these sparks ! ' as the fire said to the bellows,

if they don't soon burst into flame 1
shall certainly go out."

'' You are a very vulgar boy ! '' exclaimed
Naomi. " Mother hates slang, you know
she does."

Well, they shouldn't be so long about
it, then. Let them propose, and she can
accept one."

Then that one would always be here ! "
"And I shall go out. Grandmother has
asked me many times ; I shall go to Edinburgh."


In the meantime Charlotte had been
walking up and down a short level space-under
the trees. There was a tree-trunk
to bound her path at each end, and when
she reached it she turned ; but getting
quite lost in thought, she at last walked upto
one of the trunks, and, being brought to
a stand, forgot to turn, but stood with
her face close to it cogitating, and quite
unaware that certain peals of laughter

wMcli lie heard had any thing to do with
her.

Don John pelted her with little rose-coloured
fungi, and little buds of foxgloves,
flicking them with such dexterity that
several lighted on her shoulders. At last
he threw a good-sized hedge rose at her
hat. Then she half roused herself, and,
calmly turning, gazed at them all. Even
the lovers were laughing. Charlotte
blushed ; she knew not how to move,
whether to join them or walk away from
them. She was covered with confusion;
but here was Lanceyyyy coming. Lanceyyyy held
out his hand ostensibly to help her over the
tiny brook, and when she put hers into it,
he squeezed it. It was the very first time
any one had squeezed her hand. With
startled eyes she looked up. It was the
same old Lanceyy, the familiar companion
of her childhood, but somehow he looked
different. Selfish fellow, he was only

pleasing himself for the moment ; lie did
look so pretty. His fine eyes looked into
hers and told her that she was lovely, and
that he thought so. The admiration of the
other sexe and what effect it might have
on her, she knew at present nothing of.
Sweet little Charlotte never had pretty
speeches made to her ; nobody wanted to
appropriate the flowers she had worn, the
gloves she had laid down ; nobody stole
her photographs out of the album ; nobody
'' on his bended knees " begged for
one.

Charlotte was surprised to the point of
feeling confused, and yet there was a little
elation too; and when she joined the
party she had forgotten that they had
laughed at her. She hardly knew what
passed.

But Don John knew all about it, or at
least he thought he did. He had seen the
look between the boy and the maiden.

'^ I did not think Lanceyy could be a
muff," thought this sensible youth with
scorn. " And Charlotte to be so pleased !
Ugh ! they're all alike, I declare."

Chapter VII.

Many a long day passed before those who
met at that picnic came together again.

The next morning Lanceyy took leave
of his parents, not without guilty beatings
at the heart, for he took with him the
ring. The affection they showed him — the
almost confidence in him — he could not
accept without some very keen stirrings of
shame. He was only to be away a month,
as was supposed, but he received a great
deal of wise, grave, and truly fatherlike
admonition and counsel. '* What would he
think if he knew all ! " thought Lanceyy, and
he held his tongue, and yet he was shaken,
he was compelled to think the world into

which lie was wilfully flinging himself was
more full of danger, not than lie had
known, but than he had felt.

I'm a valuable article, and it's manifest
that Mrs. Calling wood is not thought competent
to have the charge of me. Well,
father's right there ; I should be a fool indeed,
supposing that I wished to go wrong,
if I could not do it in spite of her."

And now it is fully understood that this
tour is only to be for a month ? " observed
Donald Johnston.

Lanceyy answered, " Yes, father," and to
take a tour of one month he went away.

And yet when he had taken leave of his
sisters and of Don John, and went to kiss
his mother, she was aware of something
in his manner, something which he could
not conceal, which struck her as if it portended
a leave-taking for a long time.

He looked at her ; he was agitated as if
in spite of himself. The diamond ring was

in this waistcoat pocket pressed so tightly
by his arm against his heart that he felt it
plainly. It almost seemed to burn him.
But that was not all. He knew that he
was not to be trusted ; he was sure that
he should not come back. It flashed into
his heart that this was hard on them, for
they had treated him in all respects as a
son. It flashed back to him in an instant
that if he had been their own son he
should have done it just the same, and then
he gave Mrs. Johnston his fresh young
cheek, and having his free choice and time
to think, elected to shake off the salutary
yoke with the peaceful security of home,
and if the tour proved to be delightful or
exciting, leave it to fate to find him excuses
for prolonging it, and to the same " agreeable
party " to get him out of the scrape
if the home authorities should be wroth.

In time circumstances would drift him
home again, he would eventually render

himself so disagreeable to " his mamma,"
that she would be glad to get rid of him,
and then, throwing all the blame upon her,
he could humbly beg pardon. And — would
they forgive him ? Of course they would.
At the end of the month, two or three letters
having already been received from him,
he wrote a very humble letter full of anxious
excuses, and, as it seemed, of perplexity.
He declared that Mrs. Oollingwood, who,
in other respects, was most kind, had suddenly
informed him that she meant to cross
from Brindisi to Alexandria, and spend
some time in Egypt ; that he had no money
to come home with ; that she was very
willing to take him with her and pay all
his expenses, '' as was only right," she
said, " but she declined to give him money
in order that he might leave her." Certain
phrases in this letter let Mr. Johnston see
plainly that Lanceyy had not concocted it
without aid, perhaps prompting, from Mrs.

Collingwood. He was not deceived, but
he felt himself to be powerless. He had
long, indeed always, acted as if both the
boys were his own sons, now he was made
to feel that he could do it no longer without
their consent.

As for Lanceyy, he was generally amused,
often excited, but not always happy. He
could not respect, he did not love the
woman who was helping him to outwit his
best friends. He soon got into idle habits,
and the longer he stayed away the less willing
he felt to go home and work and submit
himself to the restraint of a well-ordered
English family.

Feminine supervision was of little use
to him, and he soon began to take advantage
of Mrs. Collingwood' s want of education,
and more than once or twice helped
himself to money of hers in the changing
for her of one sort of currency into another.
But even that was not enough ; before

the left Europe the ring was gone, and
Lancej was the worse for a quantity of
loose money always under his hand, yet not
wanted for any good or needful expenditure.
And he was the worse also for a fear
that he could never dare to come home
now lest the ring should be eventually
missed and he should be suspected of the
crime. Lanceyy pitied himself and he pitied
"his folks," as he called them. " It's not so
bad for them, though, my running away as
it would have been if I had been their own
son. It might have been Don John. Yes,
and if I had been Don John — no, I mean
if I had been the son and he the adopted
fellow, I should certainly have done it just
the same. Why, what a fool I am ! I
should have done it without half as much
worry and conscience-pricking as I feel
now, because I should have been so much
more sure they would forgive me. Numbers
of fellows run away — hundreds of

fellows, in fact — but — well, they don't take
any family jewels with them. How do I
know that ? Why, I • don't know it. I
dare say I'm no worse than other people."
All the winter in Egypt — wonderful
things to see, strange fashions, a floating
home, sunny temples in the sand, and
blank-faced gods to find fascinations in ;
perfect impunity yet from any questioning
as regarded the ring, and any calling to
order, or even inquiry as to when he meant
to return. And then having written several
somewhat moderately penitent letters
home, he got answers before they went up
the Nile. father " at first was manifestly
displeased, and yet Lanceyy thought he was
restraining his anger, he wished almost, as
it were, to propitiate the scapegrace. And
"mother" did not so much blame as
reason with him. He could have remained
at the hotel if he had pleased, she said, and
there telegraphed to his father to send him

money — lie could easily do so now. Not so
very easily. He did hesitate for half a day,
but to spend almost a whole winter on the
Stile, and see so many marvels, and have
nothing to do but to please himself — how
could he give this up ? He did not give
it up. And to see so much, increased his
thirst for seeing more. So the winter
wore away, and before the cherry blossom
was out in the orchard behind his old
home, just as the buds began to turn white,
and the girls were saying, '' Lanceyy must
be on his way to us by this time," there
came a letter from him dated Jerusalem.

It really was a very nice letter, and it
seemed to make out, though it did not
exactly assert, that he had not heard from
home for a honos time, and he felt sure they
would be pleased to know that Mrs. Col-logwood,
though she would not allow him
to leave her, was yet very kind, and gave
him every opportunity to improve himself.

He said nothing of how '* father *' had proposed
to send him money, but left it to
be supposed that he had never received
that letter.

Mr. Johnston felt that he was foiled.
Mrs. Johnston was very jealous of the
other woman, and, with yearning love,
began to admit for the first time that
much as she had been wronged, Maria
Collingwood had wronged herself more.
She knew perfectly well that Lanceyy did
not love her ; he never spoke of her as
my mother," only as *' my mamma."
As for Don John, he got accustomed in
the end to the loss of this life-long companion.
He ruled and reigned over the
other young people and allowed Majore's
lovers to perceive the good-natured pity
with Which he regarded them, not so
much for " spooning," as he called it,
for that, as he graciously observed, was
natural, but for being so long about it.

VOL. II. M

"I shall take the matter in hand myself,"
lie observed to Naomi. ''Marjorie
likes Campbell best, and, besides, Yiser
will not be able to marry for ten years,
by what I hear."

"Why, what can you do?" exclaimed
Naomi, laughing at him.

"And after that," proceeded Don John,
I shall look up some lovers, one each
for you and Charlotte. If I don't, I shall
have you both on my hands all my life, sofar
as I can see."

Naomi still laughed ; " You can do
nothing," she repeated, "a boy like you ! "
We shall see. Campbell is horridly
cast down because he's ordered to Edinburgh.
And I feel sure that ass Yiser is
putting off making his offer till the powerful
rival is out of the way. I shall write to
grandmother, and — well, I shall tell her my

views."

No, Don John."

I shall ! Lie will invite Marjorie to
visit lier ; and I shall take her clown."

swell?"

Well, father admitted the other daj
that though he had not cared for Campbell
at first, he now thought he should like him
very well as a son-in-law."

"Well?"

He never has the least chance here,
always some of you present, generally one
at least of you laughing at him."

"Well?"

I am not going to stand any more of
this questioning. If Marjorie' s frocks and
feathers and things are not in good order,
you will have to lend her some of yours,
and Charlotte may lend her pearls — for
she is going to Edinburgh in about ' a
week, and I do not intend that father
should be teased for any money for her
just now."

He turned as Naomi, still laughing, but
M 2

believing that lie was in earnest, walked
on to the house.

He was in the middle of the cherry
orchard, and, behold, there was Charlotte
advancing ! The sky was blue above ; a
cup of azure light without a cloud; the trees
were one mass of pure white blossom, and
under foot the ground was covered with
the glossy flat leaves and yellow astral
flowers of the celandine. A blue and
yellow world — all pure white and pale
glory. Was there no red at all in it ? —
nothing to give a hint of coming damask
roses and the intense pure blush of the
carnation ?

Yes, Charlotte drew near ; she was reading
as she walked. Don John's time to
rave about beauty was not yet come ; but
he did look at Charlotte's damask lips and
carnation cheeks; and somehow he perceived
that she supplied a deficiency, that
she carried about with her all that nature

and April possessed of a very precious
colour just then.

A smile of joy broke out over this face ;
something occurred that was a revelation
to himself, and that in an instant he communicated
to her. A crisp sound, as of a
foot treading on last year's leaves and
fallen twigs, was heard behind them ; and
there emerged from the side path, and
evidently was making for Charlotte, a
somewhat jaunty-looking young man,
whose buoyant tread made him almost
seem to dance up to her. Yes, he knew
what he was about ; he had a deprecating
and yet a somewhat elated air.

It was the youthfulness of the curates.
It was he of whom a very ancient dame
in one of the cottages had said, *' He been
a father to me, he have."

At last ! " whispered Don John.
** Now. Charlotte, remember Fetch's admonitions.
The best of cousins withdraws."

He turned, and deliberately marched off,
but so slowly that lie heard the young
man's greeting to the maiden. He heard
him assure her that the weather was all
that could be wished.

Don John joined Naomi.

Naomi was very much his friend. She
thought it was not fair that Marjorie
should have all the lovers and Charlotte
none. For herself, a happy carelessness
made her more than willing to bide her
time. Meanwhile she and Don John
shared confidences, passed family circumstances
under review, and in their youthful
fashion tried to throw good chances in the
way of their sister and cousin.

And what was happening now ?

Charlotte ought to have seated herself
on the wooden bench in the orchard, and
there the youthfulness curate, sitting cosily
beside her, should have been allowed to
say pretty things — that is, if he had any

in his mind to say : but no, it appeared,
after Don John had told the news to
Naomi — the remarkable news that somebody
had actually come to call whose
manifest object was Charlotte — and while
these two, standing behind a white thicket
of bloom, were deciding that mother should
be informed of this call, and asked to invite
the youthful one to lunch — it appeared
that Charlotte, so far from sitting on the
bench, was walking towards the house with
a brisk, elastic step, he after her ; and he
was not talking at all ; it was she whose
words were heard.

The brother and sister drew themselves
closer together behind the bushes ; they
did not care to be eavesdroppers ; but
when they inevitably heard a few words of
what Charlotte was saying, they looked
at one another with just indignation.
Charlotte had naturally been put out of
countenance when Don John, with a good-humoured

but somewhat threatening air,
withdrew, having let her know both what
he thought and what he expected of her.

She glanced at the young curate, and he
immediately became shy, ridiculously out
of countenance and awkward. He opened
his mouth, and, finding nothing to say, left
it open for an instant, then actually fell
back on the weather again, repeating his
encomium on it, and declaring with earnestness
that it was all he could wish.

Now shyness is almost independent of
rules as it is of reasons ; but if any one
thing maybe said of it with certainty, it is
this, that to encounter shyness greater
than itself kills it on the spot. This is
why shy people never think others shy.
The one who has the quickest perception
is instantly cured, and the other has to
bear it all.

Charlotte pitied him, and became quite
at her ease. She began to converse ; he,

more and more out of countenance, found
nothing to say. So in a short time she
came to the conclusion that he had nothing
to say " of that sort." Young men never
had anything of that sort to say to her ;
there was no abstract reason for it, but soit
was.

Now, if it had been Marjorie ! She had
often heard young men talk to Marjorie,
and knew the style quite well of that sort
of thing. In her modest mind, she could
not see anything in herself to give rise to
that sort of thing; she felt no leaning
towards the curate. He asked after her
aunt. Charlotte promptly replied that her
aunt was well, and would be glad to see
him.

So she proceeded slowly towards the
house, and, as silence was awkward, began
to talk about the book she had in her
hand.

It was one of Max Miller's. He, glad

of any tiling which, while detaining him in
her presence, granted him some delay,
while he recovered from this shyness,
which was an astonishment to himself, responded
gratefully. Everything she did,
said, and looked, was right in his eyes. He
thought she perceived the state of his
affections, and with sweet maiden modesty
for Charlotte had a peculiarly modest
manner — was occupying the time (thus, in
fact, giving him the best kind of encouragement,
and all with perfect tact) — the time
till he could recover his manly courage
and pour forth his heart, at the same
time laying himself metaphorically and his
prospects actually, at her feet.

But Charlotte, who at first had talked
coolly enough about the book, presently
began to warm with her subject. He responded
as well as he was able; but, as
she became earnest and eloquent, he found
himself completely drawn away from what

he had intended. He could not think
what she meant. Surely she was overdoing
her part ! He was quite ready to begin
now, and she actually wouldn't let him !

'No ; nothing was farther from her
thoughts. With hazy half-perception the
youthfulness curate heard her explain that
in some respects she dissented from the
view of Max Miller, as she did from the
school of those who had mainly founded
themselves on him.

But before he knew what he was about
he was assenting, while with keen regret
she spoke on the instability of language.
What was the instability of language to
him, particularly just then, when they
were drawing close to the edge of the
orchard ? He was so lost in astonishment
that he opened his mouth again, and it was
at that instant that, passing the thicket of
young trees, Don John and ISTaomi heard
Charlotte say, —

Yes, of course, mere pronunciation is
a matter of secondary importance ; and yet
even in that respect any civilized nation
must desire to escape change."

The curate assented with a forlornness
which imparted an air of doubt to his
words.

It is always loss and never gain that
an old, settled language has to fear,"
proceeded Charlotte. " I think 1 see one
if not two losses not very far ahead of us.
The Italians have utterly lost their aspirate
; and it certainly appears to me that,
even during the last twelve years, for I
have noticed peculiarities of language about
that length of time, it certainly appears tome
that we are losing it too. This is sad,
but I fear it is inevitable."

A murmur repeated at her side that it
was sad.

"Even the pains we take (that is the
more cultivated among us) to give the letter

' h ' due force, the increasing notice it
attracts, the manner in wliicli we measure
culture by its absence or presence, all these
symptoms show that we keep it and use it
with difficulty and against the grain. Yet
that we are in process of losing it I cannot
doubt, and that we have been doing so for
nearly 200 years ; before which date, as you
have no doubt noticed, there is nothing in
literature to show that our common people
used it amiss any more than they now do
the letters T, M, or D."

The curate could not assert that he had
noticed anything of the sort in literature ;
but in a feeble sort of way he foundered
through an answer, which amounted on
the whole to dissent from Charlotte's
opinion.

If you think so," answered Charlotte,
only take notice of the first conversation
you are present at. The aspirate is at present
always given with due distinctness at

the commencement of a long or an important
word, specially if it begins the sentence
; but I must say I often hear good
readers and speakers soften the sound far
too much in the little words when they
conclude it. ' And what did you say to
him ? ' An Irishman will say, ' What did
you say toom ? ' ' She handed me her own
bouquet ; ' when you next hear such a sentence
as that, remark whether the first
aspirate is not sounded much more strongly
than the second. I might give examples
by dozens, but the fact is the danger is
imminent, and I greatly fear the worst
symptom is our unconsciousness. It almost
makes me weep ; but I plainly foresee
what the end will be."

The curate was lost in astonishment ; he
would have liked to comfort her ; but here
they were at the hall-door, and if any one
had told him beforehand that he should
have found Charlotte alone, and been quite

unable to make his offer, and that in his
ensuing state of discomfiture to be with a
dozen other people would seem to him more
desirable than to be obliged to talk about
the instability of language, he would not
perhaps have easily believed this ; but ho
knew Charlotte better now, and himself
too.

CHAPTER YIIl.

When Naomi and Don John appeared to
take their places at the luncheon-table
Charlotte and the young curate were seated
one on either side of Mrs. Johnston.
Charlotte was full of enthusiasm, and the
youthful one was staring at her with an
expression of countenance which Don John
understood perfectly.

He had entered the orchard fully intending
to do a great deed, a difficult deed, and
one that he dreaded inexpressibly. He had
greatly feared a dismissal, and had many
times pictured himself to himself as returning
crest-fallen and dejected to his lodgings,
with some such words as these ringing

in this ears : — '* I have the highest esteem,
Mr. Brown, for jour character, and I
always find your sermons most interesting;
but the fact is my cousin, Don John,
has had my heart from my childhood, and
we are only waiting, &c., &c. ;" — and not
having a high opinion of his own courage,
he sometimes thought he might return
without having been able to make his
offer at all ; or, having bungled through it,
might find himself confronted with a face
full of wonder at his audacity; for, of
course, Charlotte must have a just idea of
her own merits.

Thus he had tormented himself for sometime,
but nothing like this had occurred.
A strange revulsion had taken place in his
soul. He was not dismissed : he was quite
at his ease with Charlotte opposite to him,
and her aunt making him welcome. He
had not committed himself in any Away.
Committed himself ! What an expression,

VOL. II. N

lie marvelled, as lie turned over in this
thoughts the undoubted fact that it had
occurred to him. And now, was lie glad
of this state of things ? He could not tell ;
but he had a kind of involuntary sense of
having escaped. He ate his luncheon with
a certain urgency ; laughed, and was more
hilarious than usual; trembled, and felt
rather cold. Oh, certainly she was handsome,
handsomer than he had ever thought.
He had never seen on any cheek such a pure
perfect carnation. Her eyes did not sparkle
in the least — they shone. She had the
deepest, the most bewitching dimple in one
of her cheeks — only in one — that he had
ever set his eyes upon. It almost prevailed
to plunge him again into his dream, and
thereupon he looked at Charlotte ; his shyness
and embarrassment returned, and with
them a necessity to talk — he must needs
say something. He took up what had
so much astonished him — the instability

of language — Charlotte's favourite despair.


For a few minutes it did well enough.
He found himseK half listening while she
and Don John argued together. Then he
lost himself in cogitations over the situation,
till his wide-open eyes encountering
Naomi's, he saw that her attention was
attracted — she was observing him. He
wrenched himself away from his inner self
and listened.

'* Yes," Charlotte was saying, *' hopeless
to stem the flood when once it has begun
to rise."

"Well," Don John rejoined, "what
then? The language has no abstract
rights, the nation has. The nation must,
it will, use and even change the language
as it pleases."

And, my dears," observed Mrs. John-stone
placably, " I think it was only yesterday
that you two'were rejoicing in some
N 2

changes that you felt to be improvements."


In pronunciation," Don John put in.

Oh, yes, aunt ; it was a very curious
circumstance, we were saying, — that while
some provincial defects of pronunciation
are handed down for generations, others
even in our own day and since Dickens
wrote (Dickens, who only died twenty years
ago) are completely gone out, at least in
the South and in London. ' Spell it with
a We,' Sam Weller says to his father — and
he always calls himself Weller. All that
has vanished. I never hear any one say
vinegar or weal; I never hear William
called Villa. And that shows that this
peculiarity was less dialect than slang.
Slang is always to be deplored."

Deplored! " echoed Don John solemnly.

But dialect to be cherished — one dialect
is just as good really as another."

Just as good as another ! "

Charlotte appeared to find a protest
rather than assent in this behaviour of Don
John's. She went on : "It is only because
our literature is written in one particular
dialect of English that we give that the
preference ; this is intolerant, to say the
least of it."

"Very; and after all a great deal of
literature, and even poetry, is written in
what we unkindly call provincial English.
We have but to step into our own fields,
for instance, to hear language very like 'the
lay of the hunted pig :' —

^f s.

So sure as pegs is pes

Eight chaps fetched I bj the legs.'

I have often wept over the affecting beauty
of that poem ; I could now, only I would
rather not. And how beautiful, how tender
is the speech of the Wiltshire maid to
her lover, when, feeling a little jealous of a
rival, she persuades him —

From her seat lie risen,
Says she, Let thee and I go our own way,
And we'll let she go shis'n.' "

'' Quite impossible to reason with you
when you are in this mocking humour,
and yet what I said was quite true, the
London interchange of Y and W has
suddenly gone out, but one hears people
leave out or soften the aspirate more and
more every day, particularly in church
and by clergymen," she added, after a
moment of reflection ; '' and really and truly
I have sometimes felt as if the service and
the lessons were arranged on purpose to
make this defect conspicuous."

Mr. Brown here felt a tingling sensation
down to his finger-tips, he coloured deeply,
and knew not where to look. His own
aspirates were not conspicuously absent, of
course, but he felt a miserable doubt whether
they were always adequately present.

Mrs. Johnston for the moment could

find nothing to say, but Don Jolin suddenly
burst out witbj —

All, those are ' school of cookery ' tarts,
Marjorie ! I am sure you and Naomi must
have made them after your lesson."

"Of course we did, but how did you
know it?"

Because they bulge out in all directions,
they are as slovenly as a bullfinch's nest.
Let me give you one, Mr. Brown."

The curate accepted one. Charlotte
meeting Don John's eyes as he looked
straight at her, began to perceive that she
had made a blunder, and forbore from any
further remark. The conversation meanwhile
became general, and any contributions
made to it by the guest were received
with flattering attention by Mrs.
Johnston and Marjorie, who managed to
put him at his ease.

"Aunt, have I made a very terrible
blunder?" said poor little Charlotte, while

Don John and his two sisters accompanied
Mr. Brown as far as the schools, which he
had asked them to visit on his way home.
'' I mean an unkind blunder," she added.

Mrs. Johnston was always specially
tolerant of Charlotte's gauche speeches,
and gentle with her shyness.

It was a pity, my dear, that you made
that unlucky remark. I am certain you
did not mean to be unkind ; but he felt it
so keenly as to confirm me in an idea I
had that he admires you, Charlotte."

I thought so too," said Charlotte, 'just
at first, but after we had talked a little
while I was sure he didn't, and then — "

"Well, and then ?^'

Why, we got interested in our conversation,
and I quite forgot it."

'' So you thought he admired you ?"

Yes, but that was because Don John
put it into my head. And it made me feel
so shy and so ridiculous at first that when

I found it was not the case, of course I
was more at my ease than usual. And so I
talked to him."

"You should have let him talk to you."

He had nothing to say. At least he
had nothing to converse about of any real
or solid interest."

Well," said her aunt, taking care not
to let the shadow of a smile appear on her
face, " if he comes again, let him have time
to lead the conversation to any subject he
chooses."

"I could never take any particular interest
in him."

How do you know ? you are almost a
stranger to him."

"I am so sorry I said that," repeated
Charlotte with a sigh."

Her aunt kissed her. What was the
use of arguing with Charlotte or laughing
at her ? she would only be made more shy
and more gauche by such a course.

Lie went to the playroom feeling very
angry with herself, and began to turn over
the leaves of the book of '' Minutes," to
look for the letters Don John had written
to her on her behaviour to the " conflicting
sex." This was the first : —

Charlotte,

The mind of man (in which I include
the mind of woman, even of young
woman), the mind of man, as I have read
in books, ever feels impatient of doubt.

Thus when a fine young fellow, such as
I am, one at the acme, point and prime of
his life, at which time he is most interesting,
and justly so, to the youthful female,
viz. forty-five last birthday — one of good
estate and old family — when, to come to
the point, Fetch Fetch, Esq., begins to pay
frequent and somewhat long calls at a
house where there are three marriageable
young ladies, it is very certain that his

motive in so doing cannot fail to suggest
hopes to each of the three which she
would fain translate into certainty, and
doubt which she longs to solve.

Yes, doubt. ' Why,' she will sigh to
herself, ' does this, the — shall I confess
it ? yes I will — the cherished hero of my
dreams come day after day with a buoyant,
an almost tripping foot, when the schoolroom
duties are over, and having just put
our prettiest frocks on, and our best lockets,
we repair to the drawing-room to afternoon
tea ?'

I think I see you now, Charlotte, as
standing before your mirror you clasp your
hands, while blushing at your own thoughts,
you exclaim, ' Naughty one ' (it is your own
heart that you thus apostrophize), 'art
thinking of thy Fetch again ? Oh ' (I hear
you go on) ' can it be for my sake he stuck
that bunch of daisies in his button-hole ?
Is it because I kissed a daisy one day when

I thoiiglit he was not looking (at least, I
think I thought so), and murmured oyer
it, " Innocent poetic flower, come to your
Charlotte's heart " (at least, I think that's
what I said, or something quite as foolish).
Who,' you go on, ' shall resolve me
this harrowing doubt ? '

Charlotte, I have an imaginative, and
so far as such a thing is desirable in a fine
young man, I have a poetic mind myself —
and in the silence which would be complete,
but that our dog is barking, and
that my sister, Fanny Fetch, is chattering,
and a dozen at least of sparrows are helping
at the top of the rick — in the silence I
hear your spirit calling to me as plainly as
possible, and I consider that it is only
generous in me to resolve the doubt you
have with so much maidenly reserve and
modesty felt impelled to mention, at the
same time telling you for your future
guidance why you are not my object

when I sit spooning over jour aunt's
Bohea.

"Among the many reasons, Charlotte,
why this is the case, one of the foremost is
that you have such a vehement desire to be
instructed. A fine young fellow seldom
knows much. (I do not say that this is my
case.) It frightens him to feel that he is
liable to be put at a disadvantage by being
asked questions that he cannot answer.
And then, again, you have a no less ardent
desire to instruct. If you have picked up
any piece of information, you think it must
needs be as interesting to a fine young
fellow as to yourself. Now I may say for
my own part that there is nothing I hate
like being instructed and having to give
my mind to learning out of school ; when
I am unbending among a lot of pretty
girls, I like to spoon. It is my wish to
feel that I belong to the superior sex. It
is their business to make me sure that I

am an agreeable specimen of that sex. I
must be set at my ease.

^' But I do not wish, as is too much your
own habit, to talk at large and utter aphorisms.
Wish rather to persuade you for your
own good to alter your manner. I laye
heard that remarkably sensible young man,
Don John, say of his schoolboy brother, that
if he declined to obey any of his behests,
he should persuade him with a stick. But
the custom of thus persuading the fair sex
has, to some extent, gone out in this country.
Also it is almost decided now that woman
is a reasonable creature ; in fact, if we did
not think so, we could not blame her for
being the most utterly unreasonable creature
that ever lived, because this would
not be her own fault, which it is. Observation
and experience are counted among
the gifts of reason. I appeal to these. You
observe that fine young fellows fly from you,
and you experience mortification ; therefore,

Charlotte, I leave these ta guide you,
and will no more use (metaphorically) the
stick; but remind you of the conduct of
the charming Marjorie your cousin : when
a stumpy young man with high heels to
his boots stands talking near her and
showing himself careful, by holding himself
scrupulously upright, not to lose the tenth
of an inch of his stature, Marjorie always
keeps her seat if she possibly can ; you
never see her rise and from her graceful
height look down upon him ; when a
stupid fellow blunders in an attempt to
pay her some compliment, the best he
knows how to fish up out of his foolish
heart, she respects his dulness, she never
smiles, she feels for him a gracious pity,
and while encouraging no ridiculous hope,
she saves his self-esteem by helping him
to show himself to her at his best.

With that last sentence, which I feel
to be worthy of me, and very neatly put, I

remain, charlotte, your sincere friend, and
your cousin Marjorie's lover,

'' Fetch Fetch."

Charlotte laughed a little over this
letter. " But after all," she said almost
aloud, " I do not want a lover ! It is not
because I cannot have one that I need
distress myself so much about my gauche
behaviour, my shyness, my unattractive
manner and stiff conversation. It is
because I bore them at home so much
with what they call my ' poetic faculty'
and my ' intellectual fads ' that I wish to
be different. I lay down one subject after
another, and urge it on them no more, but
the fresh one, as I take it up, they laugh at
just the same. I know there is something
in what my aunt says, that there is no
malice whatever in their teasing, and that
if I became just like everybody else, it
would make them all very dull, myself

included, for I should miss that attention
now bestowed on me, and they would miss
what helps to stimulate them and draw
their interest to various abstract subjects,
which otherwise (particularly the girls)
they would never take any notice of at all.

'' How kind and sweet my aunt is ! Is
she right, does it really amuse me as
much as it does them ?

Yes, of course I do not want a lover —
I should not know what to do with one —
and yet, perhaps, even I might have a
lover some day.

''Ah! here's Don John's ode that wrote
to make game of me for thinking that they
could take any interest, any of them, in
my essay on the nature and province of
poetry. How they all laughed ! Lanceyy
more than any of them. It was two days
before he went away — before he helped
me over the brook. Don John declaimed it
in the play-room in a voice of thunder,

VOL. II.

putting intense emphasis on every short
line."

She glanced at the composition in question,
it had been copied into the '' Minutes"
in a round text hand and ran as follows : —

To Charlotte on her demonstrating tome
that poetry was altogether independent
of rhyme.

Unto thee, Charlotte,
Unto thee,

Do

I indite this

Ode,

For thou hast removed, joyful

Day, an insurmountable obstacle

To

My being a poet. I may compare it

Unto a considerable obstacle,

Which,

This time last year, I being in the steamer

Crossing from Holyhead,

Rear'd itself right in front of me,

Looming to ISTortli and South ever nearer
And nearer.
I said, ' Now if I were minded
To
Cross the Atlantic to America I couldn't, in
Consequence of this insurmountable
Obstacle
Which at that moment we ran
Into,
Being prevented bj a buffer from
Doing
Ourselves any harm.
The obstacle was in point of fact
Ireland.
And as to this day.
Whoso would cross the Atlantic,
Must needs sail round that
Considerable
obstacle,
For,
He cannot sail through it
So hast


Thou taught me, O Charlotte,

Sailing clear of the obstacle of rhyme.

To

Be a poet."

Steps on the stairs. Charlotte pricked
up her head; Naomi and Don John
entered.

"Here she is!" exclaimed Naomi, 'rand
not tearing her hair."

'' Let her alone, Nay," said Don John.
"We have • business on hand, and she is
only a poetess." .

I am very sorry, I am sure ; I never
could have believed I should have made
such a blunder," said Charlotte.

Well, we forgive you. We feel that it
is of no use to reason with you; and if
that speech is not severe enough to cure
you, nothing is."

And besides," proceeded Don John,
following up his sister's remark, " if that

young ass bad anything better to do, it can
hardly be doubted that he would do it
instead of — "

Instead of wasting his morning," interrupted
Charlotte, "in paying such a
long call. He only came here to while
away the time."

"Well, he has not much to do; he told
me himself that he walked to the railway
station, wdiicli is three miles off, every day
to buy a penny paper — for there being only
200 poorish people in the parish, and they
being almost always quite well, he felt a
delicacy about paying many visits. ' You
are quite right,' I said, ' not to harry your
parishioners.' Well, now, Charlotte, you
are actually forgiven, and going to help
us — going to be of use to the best of
cousins."

What am I going to do ? "

Help us to write a letter to grandmother
; you are not the only person in this

house who has poetic visions — I have had
a vision too. Me thought (that is how your
last vision began ; I read it, for you left
it in the play-room blotting-book) — methought,
Charlotte, I saw Dizzy and Gladstone
playing at pitch-and-toss with the
British lion, as if it had been a halfpenny.
Heads I win ! ' shouted Dizzy."

And which did win ? "

"You should not interrupt the vision.
Why, the lion methought came down upon
his head of his own accord, and, winking
on them both, spake in pretty good English.
He said fair play was a jewel ; and it was
now time that the public should see how
he looked when he was wrong end upward.
Then the Lord Mayor, for methought he
was looking on, the Lord Mayor said, ' That
was a beautiful and affecting speech, "heads
I win; " ' and when he saw what the lion
had done he put up his hand to feel
whether his own head was in its place.

Then the vision brake and faded (that's a
quotation) ; and pondering on it, methought
I too will play at pitcli-and-toss with circumstances,
as this gracious vision (that's
another quotation) suggests to me. I will
see what will turn up, eke I will write to
my dear grandmother ; and Charlotte and
Naomi shall help. Well?"

CHAPTER IX.

Well ? " repeated Don John : " are you
quite lost in amazement ? I like to see a
poetess gazing at me with her mouth
open."

Charlotte hastily shut her mouth.

"And we want you to give us some
of your large copying paper," observed
Naomi, '' because, as we told you before,
we are going to write a letter
to grandmother — a very particular letter."


Why ? " asked Charlotte.

Don John told her in much the same
fashion as he had loid Naomi in the orchard
having first arranged their chairs in a

triangle that the party might have a
three-cornered crack."

I know Marjorie likes Campbell," said
Charlotte. '' T know she feels his going
away."

'' You do ? "

Don John glanced at Naomi, who
nodded.

Why didn't you take that for granted,"
she observed, " when I consented to help
with the scheme ? "

'' But as you did not know it," observed
Charlotte, " why this sudden zeal for
match-making?"

Well, if you must know, it is partly
because I have within the last few days
heard a piece of news which I know makes
father uneasy."

From whom?"

'' From Lanceyy."

Charlotte blushed, and wished to ask, but
did not, whether Lanceyy was coming home.

Mrs. Collingwood has four hundred a
year of her own, that is, as she told father,
it is absolutely at her own disposal, and she
could leave it to whom she would. She
added that she should of course leave it
to Lanceyy. She made a will before she
went abroad, and deposited it with father
of her own accord. Father has sometimes
alluded to this will to me, and said
it pleased him."

'well?"

Of course we know that Lanceyy being
adopted by both father and mother, they
have always said they should look after his
interests in the future."

Lanceyy is a dear boy," said JSTaomi, with
the least little contraction of her forehead
as if for thought. '' And if father and
mother had any real reason for loving him
so much, of course they would long ago
have told us ; therefore I have for sometime
been sure they have no reason : they

let him come to stay with them for a while,
they got fond of him quite unawares, and
kept him on and on, till at last they loved
him almost as they love us ; and it seems
to them quite natural that they should,
and also quite natural that we should
think so. I never grudged Lanceyy anything
in my life, but though it does seem natural
that we should all love him, yet surely
his place in the family is remarkable."

Don John looked keenly at his sister and
listened attentively while she spoke. This
was a subject on which, from his boyhood,
he had thought a good deal, and nothing
that he had arrived at as a reason for
Lanceyy' s place in the family had satisfied
and pleased him so well. " After all," he
thought, '' why should there be any great
and important reason ? "Why will not this
reason do, which is hardly a reason at all ?"
His thoughts went on while both the girls
were silent. " Perhaps if I had not instinctively

been so careful to hide from
father and mother that I felt the least
surprise, I might have been told."

But the news' asked Charlotte at last,
'' what is it ? "

Mrs. Collingwood is going to marry
again."

Lanceyy says so ? "

Yes ; it seems that she was very desirous
to keep him with her, and she proposed
to go back to Australia, and overpersuaded
him, he says, to go too. She took
passage in the P. and 0. steamer as far as
Colombo, where she promised him they
should stay a month. And there was a man
on board whom Lanceyy calls ' a gentleman
of position and fortune,' but father says the
account he gives of him sounds as if he
were an adventurer. He declared that he
fell in love with that short, fat, little
woman at first sight ; he landed with them
at Galle, and when Lanceyy wrote, his mother

was to be married to him in a day or
two."

'' And that will make a great difference
to Lanceyy ? "

'' Of course, because, if there were no
settlements made before the marriage, every
shilling she has is now her husband's ; and
she cannot make a will. As to the will
she made before, it is no better than wastepaper."


*' Then Lanceyy will have to work ? " said
Charlotte.

'* Oh, yes, of course ; so have I — still — "
he paused suddenly, and did not add,
but my father's children are worse off
than they were by that four hundred
pounds a year, for Lanceyy and I cannot
both be wrong, and we think that in our
early childhood we were told we should be
left equal in father's will, and Lanceyy
thought afterwards that he was to have less
from father by four hundred pounds a year.

'^ And that's very odd," lie said aloud ;
'rit's very extraordinary," and while the
girls bothered him as to his obliging desire
to get lovers for them, and declared
that there was no chance of his succeeding,
he sat lost in thought.

'' This news is only part of my reason,"
he said at last, " and I did think Marjorie
liked Campbell, though I was not sure
as I am now."

Don John was still almost a boy in
years, and he was young for his years,
otherwise he would hardly have concocted
such a scheme, and deliberately detailed
it to his grandmother, which, with the
help of the two girls, he now actually did ;
saying, however, nothing about his father's
circumstances.

His grandmother was excessively
amused, and wrote forthwith, telling him
that she would decide what to do in a day
or two, and desiring that he would on no

account mention the matter to any one.
By the same post she sent his letter to
her daughter-in-law, requesting to know
her opinion, and asking her to name
her wishes, but not to betray the confidence
reposed in her. Marjorie's father
and mother had a long, loving consultation
over it, the father not without shouts
of laughter, the mother with somewhat
admiring amusement.

The family was at breakfast three days
after, when the letters came in, and Mrs.
Johnston, turning one of hers over with
the quietest of smiles, said, " Edinburgh,
I see." The three conspirators blushed
furiously, Don John was pink up to the
roots of his very light hair. Mrs. John-stone
began to read the letter aloud. It
set forth that the grandmother had, for
some time past, not seen any of the girls,
and had quite suddenly determined to ask
her dear Stella to spare one of them.

Here, with the gentlest audacity, she
paused, and beginning again at " quite
suddenly " repeated the sentence. '' One of
them to spend a couple of months with her ;
she should prefer to have Marjorie," here
Marjorie blushed as rosy red as the others
had done, not one of the young people
could look up, the father and mother exchanged
glances, Mrs. Johnston went on.
'' And, my dear Stella, will you let Don
John bring her down, for I have not set
my eyes on the young rascal for sometime."


When she had finished reading, she
folded the letter quietly, the conspirators
neither spoke nor looked up, so she looked
at Marjorie, and said, with a gentleness
which was almost indifference, " Do you
think you should like to go, dear one?"

And Marjorie replied, with unwonted
hesitation, that she didn't know.

That settled the matter in the mother's

mind, she immediately said, miicli more
decidedly, " Oh, I think you should accept
your grandmother's invitation, and besides,
as she asks Don John too, you should not
deprive him of the visit."

Oh, yes," Marjorie interrupted, sparkling
all over, and blushing with pleasure,
*' and he has actually never been to Edinburgh
yet; you would like to go, Don
John, wouldn't you? "

And so the matter was settled. And
all that Don. John had proposed was done
to the letter : Charlotte did lend her pearls,
and Naomi her prettiest feathers, and
scarcely any money was asked for, Mrs,
Johnston, from the contents of the Indian
box, fitting out Marjorie with various-beautiful
ornaments, and having some most
becoming dresses made for her from her
own wardrobe. Nobody knew what was
becoming to Marjorie so well as her
mother, and she sent her forth to conquer.

A^OL. II. p

The daughter had no more than her
mother's beauty, but she had inherited the
same reposeful serenity and convincing
charm.

Don John, with pride and confidence,
took charge of her ; brother-like, he declined
to let her have anything to do with
the taking of the tickets or the looking
after her luggage. It was therefore all
left behind, as was that of a young man's in
the same carriage. When this was found
out, which was in consequence of Marjorie's
looking out of the window, and seeing it
with her own eyes as it stood on the platform,
she made at first some lamentation,
but Don John and the young passenger
became friends over the telegraphing for
it at the first stoppage, after which Marjorie
was almost persuaded by her brother
that it was safer on the platform than in
the van, and would reach Edinburgh
almost as soon — if not sooner !

But there is no need to enlarge upon
this experience of Marjorie's. There is
probably no woman living who has not
gone through it ; a more uncommon part
of the matter was that the three young
people thus left together discovered that
they had many friends in common, that
they knew all about each other's families,
and were going to visit at houses situated
not a hundred yards apart.

The young man's name was Woden.
Campbell is too common a name to please
me," thought Don John, *' but I like it better
than Foden." Why this thought came
into his head will appear very shortly.
Marjorie Foden sounds foolish, so does
Duncan Dilke Foden," he cogitated thus as
they reached Edinburgh. ^

Why, she's as tall as her brother ! "

thought the grandmother when the two

young people presented themselves. '' An

awkward height, and her hair as red as rust."

p 2

Campbell's laid up with the chickens
she whispered to her grandson, as
soon as Marjorie had been escorted to her
room.

The chicken-pox ? " repeated Don
John, with scorn.

'' Yes, all the children of the regiment
have got it, and he caught it."

"Oh, well," answered Don John, rather
dreamily. " I don't know that it particularly
signifies."

His grandmother looked sharply at him.

I suppose you know that he's a great
flirt ? " she went on.

Don John woke up suddenly.

'No, grandmother, I did not."

'' Yes, after I had decided to invite you
both down, his old aunt — Miss Lorimer
Campbell, coming in. amused me, as
she supposed, with tales of his flirtations,"


Don John repeated, with rather more

decision, " I don't know that it particularly
signifies."

And it did not signify at all, for Duncan
Dilke Foden, presenting himself almost
immediately after breakfast the next morning,
to pay an outrageously early and
outrageously long morning call, passed
through a succession of changes in manner,
mind, and face, which the grandmother
read as easily as from a printed
book. He was elated at the sight of
Marjorie, and expressed as much delight
and surprise as if she might have been
expected to evaporate in the night, or to
melt like a lump of sugar ; and then he
became suddenly humble, as one who had
no right to be glad ; and then he was
afflicted with a great desire to talk sensibly
and seriously, as one desiring thereby to
excuse too long a presence ; but at this
stage of affairs Marjorie broke in quietly
with some commonplace question. Duncan

Dilke Foden was taken in hand, first set at
this ease, and calmed, then made to show
himself at his best, and finally let alone to
remember that he had paid a long visit, and
with a tolerable grace to tear himself away.

Pondering on this visit soon after, the
grandmother said quietly to Marjorie,
'' What sort of a fellow is young Campbell?"


He's not very wise, grandmamma,"
answered Marjorie.

Did not I hear something about his
paying ye a good deal of attention ? "

Oh, yes, he did."

'' And not the only one to pay it — at
least, I have had hints to that effect."

Marjorie lifted up her fair face, "But that
is not my fault, grandmother, I do assure
you."

Meaning that ye have no wish to be a
flirt. No, it is not your fault, I dare say ;
but, Marjorie, it is your misfortune."

Yes, I used to be a great deal happier
before I had all these ridiculous compliments,"
answered the young girl, mistaking
her meaning. '' And yet, grandmother,
though I have never had any attentions
from any one I cared for — no, I mean I
never have cared for any one yet — "

'' Well ? " asked the grandmother.

Marjorie laughed, but answered, not
without a little ingenuous blush of embarrassment,
—

I used to be so happy at home with
the others, and now though I could not,
on any account, marry any one of my
lovers — "

No ? " exclaimed the grandmother,
interrupting her.

*' Oh, no, certainly not — yet you cannot
think how utterly flat and dull everything
seems when I haven't got one. I did
not care in the least for Campbell, for instance,
yet I had got so accustomed to his

compliments that when lie went away I
hardly knew how to do without him. You
think me a very foolish girl ! "

Just like her mother," thought the
grandmother. '' And so ye did not care for
Campbell, my dear; well, so much the
]setter for Foden."

'' And yet I do wish to be different,"
proceeded Marjorie.

If the men will let ye ! " interrupted
Mrs. Johnston.

And I was so glad when your letter
came. I am sure I shall enjoy this visit so
much."

'^ And Foden — what are ye going to do
with him? "

'' I sent him away as soon as I could
this morning, without hurting his feelings."

u There has been a great deal of harm
done by that false proverb, ' Marriages
are made in heaven.' "

Grandmother ? "

'* In one sense every tiling is decreed
above ; but in the other sense it may fairly
be said that marriage is the one thing
heaven leaves to be made on earth. Her
birth, her station, her fortune, her beauty
the maid had not the making of; but if
she does not exercise her Avis, and her best
discretion as regards her marriage, nothing
her people can do can much avail her."

'• Of course we ought not to marry for
money," observed Marjorie, demurely ;
*' nor," she went on after a pause, " without
being in love."

How many lovers might ye have had
already," asked the grandmother ; '' six ?"

Marjorie laughed.

'* Well if ye cannot deny it, six it is ;
and, as I said, not your fault, perhaps, but
certainly your misfortune, for if ye cannot
love one of the first six, why should ye
love one of the second six ? The girl that
is really well off is she who waits sometime,

has one chance, and, it being a reasonably
good one, takes it thankfully."

Oh, I shall like some one well enough
to marry him in the course of time," said
Marjorie, who was very much amused at
her grandmother's way of putting things.

'' That is how your mother used to talk.
She felt no enthusiasm, she once told me,
for any of her lovers, and I answered, ' Consider
which is the best worth loving and
on the whole the most agreeable to ye,
then dismiss the others, and let that one
have a chance.' If it had not been for me,"
she went on, with perfect gravity and sincerity,
" your father never would have won
the wife he wished for. She had many
lovers, and did not care to decide between
them ; but I talked to her. I said, ' Yes,
many lovers, but one is old, and one beneath
ye, and one above ye, and one is nota
good man ; and here are two left that are
thoroughly suitable, but one of those even

has an advantage not possessed by the
other, or indeed by any one of the
others.' "

Marjorie was interested, she had not
expected to find that her father had needed
any assistance in his wooing.

'' Well, grandmother ? " she said.

*' Well," repeated the grandmother,
'^ I said to her, ' There are women, Estelle,
that long to keep their sons single, and
there are those who look to patch np fallen
fortunes with rich daughters-inlaw, and
there are women of such a termagant nature
that all their sons have quarrelled with
them, and there are women illiterate
enough to make their daughters-inlaw
ashamed of them, and I know of one who
dreads a beauty more than anything, and
thinks such a one must needs be a spendthrift
; ' and now said I, ' I have named
the mother of every lover you have but
one, and that one longs to see her son

married, looks for none but a small fortune,
and would willingly help him from
her own, desires an equal match and a
beautiful young wife for him, has loved
him more than anything mortal since her
widowhood, and would thankfully resign
him to — you.' "

'rand what did mother say?" asked
Marjorie.

She said she would think of it, and
she did."

"Mother always talks of you with so
much affection. She always says you are
so good to her." Marjorie did not add,
'' and I often hear her remind father that
it is his day for writing to you;" that
would have given pain, but it was true.

There was something rather sweet, as
Marjorie felt, in being thus shown a glimpse
of the past. Something so fixed, so inevitable,
so without alternative as the marriage
of her father with her mother had

hung in the balance then ! — had been a
matter for discussion and for persuasion.


Your mother was greatly admired,"
proceeded Mrs. Johnston, senior, " and as
was but natural, she soon found out that
all the good and worthy young men were
more alike than she could have supposed.
As the proverb runs, ' She wanted better
bread than can be made ivith ivlieat,' she
went on seeking for it. She did not want
merely a good and worthy young man ; she
told me so. But said I, ' Ye do not propose
to live and die single ? ' — ' Oh, no, she
proposed no such thing.' — ' My dear,' said
I, ' men are not made of better stuff than
yourself, far from it ! But ye have had
choice of some of the best of them, and I
think your real difficulty comes from this,
that you put your fancy before your
duty.' "

'' Duty ! " exclaimed Marjorie, drawing

herself up, and speaking for her mother as
well as for herself.

'^ Yes, it is a woman's duty, if she has
many lovers, to set them free from vain
hopes, by choosing as soon among them as
she can, even if she make some sacrifice todo
it, with only a sincere preference for
one, and as your mother said, 'no great
enthusiasm.' Such a self-sacrifice is almost
always rewarded. There is nothing so
sweet as duty, and all the best pleasures of
life come in the wake of duties done."

CHAPTER X.

Don John thus announced his sister's and
his own safe arrival at Edinburgh : —

Dearest Naomi,

We reached our destination last night
just as it was getting dusk. Grandmother
is not at all grown.

I am much impressed with the magnificence
of this city. The streets are
fine, the populace polite, and the various
methods of locomotion, omnibuses, cabs,
tram-cars, &c., are admirably arranged, and
convey the traveller cheaply and expeditiously
in every direction. The view from
Arthur's Seat is remarkably fine, as is also
that from Salisbury Crags. I will not expatiate

on tHe prospect from the ancient
castle, its reputation is European.

I am writing before breakfast, and
have not jet quitted the house since my
arrival. Immediately after breakfast, I
propose to do so, in order to view the
various objects which I have so graphically
described. I trust, my dear girl, that they
may be found to justify the terms in which
I have spoken of them. With this ramble
I shall combine a visit to the railway
terminus in search of Marjorie's luggage,
which I left behind at King's Cross.
Grandmother appeared to think this
strange, but I reminded her that we are
all subject to the law of averages, and as,
on an average, half a box per thousand of
all that this railway carries is left behind,
lost, or delayed, and somebody must be
owner of that half-box, she ought not to
be surprised if that somebody proved to
be her granddaughter. She said that as

Marjorie lead three boxes, and lead lost
them all, her average was rather high. A
truly feminine answer, which shows that
she did not understand the question. Ah!
I see a railway van coming up with those
three boxes in it. Yes, the luggage is
come.

"Best love to father and mother and all
of you.

*' Your affectionate brother,

Donald Johnston."

When Naomi read this letter aloud at
the breakfast-table, one more person
listened to it than Don John had counted
on. Captain Leslie was present, a sunburned,
stooping man, very hoarse, very
grave, and very thin. He had called on
Mr. Johnston the day before in London,
and when he found that he was not recognized,
it appeared to hurt his feelings very
much. But he was so much changed by

VOL. u. Q

climate and illness, that when lie lead been
invited '' to come down and see Estelle,"
Mr. Johnston carefully telegraphed to his
wife of the expected arrival, lest she also
should meet him as a stranger. He was
a distant cousin of Mrs. Johnston's, hence
the use of the Christian name.

When he had seen his first and only love
with her children about her, in a happy
English home, and looking, to his mind,
more beautiful than ever, when he had
heard the cordial sweetness of her greeting,
such a glow of tender admiration comforted
him for long absence, such a sense of being
for at least the fortnight they had named
to him delightfully at home, that his old
self woke up in him; isolation on staff
duties, irritating heat, uncongenial companions,
exile, illness, all appeared to recede.
He had thought of his life — excepting his
religious life — as an irretrievable failure;
but for that first evening he felt strangely

young. He was very stiff, and when he
reared himself up, his own iron-grey head,
seen in the glass, confronted him, and
appeared for the moment to be the only
evidence about him of the time that had
passed. Estelle was a little different, but
it was an advantageous difference, motherhood
was so infinitely becoming to her ;
and as for Donald, he took the honours of
his place so quietly that the old bachelor
and unsuccessful lover did not grudge
them to him as he had done at first. He
spoke but little to his wife, being even
then aware that the old love in Leslie's
heart was as intense as ever.

With a keen perception of everything
said and done in the presence of Estelle,
Leslie felt that her husband scarcely looked
at her ; but he could not know the deep
pity with which his successful rival regarded
him, — what a short lease of life he
appeared to him to have ; how little, as he
Q 2

supposed, there was yet left for him to
enjoy in his native country.

That night Leslie thought a good deal of
Estelle's eldest son ; he was much disappointed
to find him away ; his letter the
next morning presented him in a rather
unexpected light.

Is that your boy's usual style of writing,
Johnston ? " he inquired.

*' Yes, I think it is ; he is a dear, good
fellow, but quite a character, and he always
bad naturally a whimsical way of looking
at things."

'' I am glad the luggage has arrived*'
observed Mrs. Johnston ; '' but is it, quite
fair, Donald, to speak of our boy as an
oddity ? "

'' My dear'' exclaimed her husbands* I
wish him to be what pleases you ; but I
have thought of him as an .oddity ever
since he was six years old, when he said of
the cook on his birthday, ' She put my

cake in the oven, and it rose ambrosial as
Venus rose from the sea.' "

It was clever of him," said little Mary,
for lie had not been to a cooking-class as
I have."

Leslie smiled.

*' And Don John invented Fetch, you
know, mother," observed JSTaomi, '' and
Fanny Fetch and the ' Minutes'"

Mrs. Johnston made no reply, but
Leslie had a real motive for wanting to
investigate Don John's nature and the
character he bore at home ; so after breakfast,
when left alone with the girls, he easily
got them to talk of him, and at the end of
less than a week he was quite intimate with
them, made welcome to a place at the playroom
tea, treated to Charlotte's opinions
on things in general, consulted by her as
to her poetry, and even allowed to read
selected portions of the " Minutes."

These abundantly bore out his father's

opinion that lie was a character ; but Leslie
made one mistake about Don John at once,
for iindi]ig how many of the papers consisted
of criticisms on Charlotte's opinions,
remarks on her behaviour, or counsels to
her on her literary productions, he jumped
to the conclusion that Don John must needs
be half in love already with the beautiful
little cous; he wondered whether Estelle
knew it, and he forthwith began to take a
keener interest in Charlotte also for his
sake.

The girls liked him; little Mary loved
him, '' though he almost always talked,"
she said, '' as if it was Sunday."

He had not been in the house ten days
before he was in the confidence of all the
young people, and at liberty to turn over
the leaves of the '' Minutes " for himself.

He thought he knew Don John thoroughly,
and Charlotte too. His religious
counsels, his unconscious betrayal of a Belong

interest in them and their parents and
their home ; his unexpected knowledge of
various incidents before their birth-which
had hitherto been unknown to themselves,
all combined to make them think of him
as one who might be trusted absolutely,
and who had a right almost to the position
of a near relative. He gave them presents,
too, and discussed with them beforehand
what these should be. As the days went
on he found himself more at home with the
children than with the parents. Estelle was
the love of his whole life ; but she was in a
sense remote. Her children and Charlotte
became intimate with him, as much by
their own wish as by his, and they in the
same sense were near.

He felt towards them as an uncle mio^ht
have done ; he perceived that the parents
consciously allowed them thus to ally
themselves with him, and he did not know
the reason.

On the mother's part it was done because
it made more easy her personal withdrawal.
He must needs love her ; but it
was better for him to widen his interest
and love her children too, and amuse himself
with them than have opportunity to
sit apart with her, and waken up again the
old want which for so many years had
slumbered in absence.

On the father's part it was from pure
pity. Why should not Leslie enjoy the
flattering consciousness that these young
creatures liked him ? His time was so
short ; the sods of his native valley would
be laid over his head so soon.

Leslie did not think so. He supposed
that he had come home to recruit his health.
Estelle and her husband had no reason
whatever to suspect the scheme which was
taking form in his mind ; he delighted
himself with the certainty of this fact.

Various little hints let him perceive that

Mr. Johnston, if not actually somewhat
embarrassed in his circumstances, was assuredly
not well off. "As to my making
their son my heir," he would cogitate,
they have no reason to think I have
anything worth mentioning to leave ; but
it is sweet to know that when I am taken
to my rest, Estelle will reap a benefit from
me, dead, which living I could not give ;
she will dwell more at ease if her eldest
son is provided for. Johnston cannot feel
jealous of my memory as he might have
done if I had left it to her ; and Estelle will
know well that all I did for her boy was
for her sake."

But he is a character," continued Leslie
; '' his father was quite right ! "

Leslie had strolled into the play-room,
the girls had gone to their cooking-class,
and he had wandered through the downstairs
room without finding their mother.
It might have been supposed that he would

go out, but no, the girls lead strictly charged
him to wait for their return, when there
was to be an early lunch, and he was to go
with them to a farm-house to choose 
rabbits which he had promised
them.

'^ He's a character," repeated Leslie, and
he turned over the leaves of the "Minutes,"
as he had full leave to do. " Here's some
of his handwriting — all about Charlotte —
always Charlotte. Let me see.

The Poetry of Mister Barnes, done in the
Dorset Dialect.

'what is it you do find in this their
book?"
Says I.
They poems," says the maid, " they be so
high;
When on un I do look.
They fill my heart wi' swelling' thoughts,
Idyllic,

The most eclogue thoughts they do !
And I attain to view
The world as though 'twas made anew.

And I do feel," she says, says she,
''So frisky as a lamb under a grete work
tree.
So light's a little bird,
A hopping and a chirruping
Over the fuzzen."
(Thinks I, " My word ! ")
Says she, "You mizzen
Lass," for she read my thoughts in a
trice.

Says she, *' This here's the poet's vice
A speaking to 'ee." '' Oh," says I, " shut

I couldn't stand no moor 'ee see.

They all cried, '' What a vulgar boy hebe!"


And I did call out passed trough the door.
For I was forced to flee,

Donee shut up."

"Innocent enough all these writings,"
lie observed to himself, " and they show-activity
of mind in an annual degree. Oh,
that these dear children had the root of the
matter in them ! I must not shrink from
talking to them on their best interests."

To do Leslie justice, he never did shrink
from uttering anything that was on his
conscience, and all his religious discourse
was considerate and evidently devoid of
affectation.

The fortnight came to an end. Leslie
by that time was so desirous to see Don
John, that if any opening had been given
him, he would have proposed to prolong his
stay.

He went away one morning, accompanied
by all the girls to the station. The next
afternoon Don John returned, and was
in like fashion accompanied from it.

After he had seen his mother he was
borne off to the play-room, where, at afternoon

tea, he ate as much cake as would
have spoiled the dinner of most young men ;
but Don John's appetite at that stage of
his career was spoiling-proof.

Mary being present, a certain caution
was observed in the discourse. " You
hardly ever wrote to us," said Naomi.

But I wrote to mother — "

*' Yes, — well, there could have been
nothing particular to tell us. How is
Campbell ? "

Don John looked a little confused during
the first part of Naomi's speech; he
answered the second part.

*' Campbell ? why, we never saw him
once."

Charlotte and Naomi looked as if they
thought this very bad news.

^' Not well yet?"

'' Grandmother thought that for another
day or two he was just as well away.
But, I say, what about Captain Leslie?"

'soil, we liked Mm so much !" exclaimed
little Mary, ''but- lie's a very good man."

But ! ! — Yes, I know he's very religious."


And very evangelical, of course," observed
Charlotte. ' Officers in the army
always are when they are exceptionally
religious."

Why should they be ? "

Well, my theory is that they have so
many rules to enforce and obey — so much
to do with discipline and drill, that it is
natural they should take to that sort of
religion which is the most gentle and free
from hard rules, which insists least on the
letter and most on the spirit — "

How many officers of that sort do we
know, three, isn't it? Quite enough for
you to found a theory on. I think Captain
Leslie must be an odd fish."

No, he is not," said Naomi, " but he
talks often just as father does when on

some rare or serious occasion he has one
of us into his own room and — "

What ! did he pray with you ? "

He asked mamma if he should pray
with us before he went away; she said ' yes,'
and so we all knelt down in this room,"
and here little Mary in all simplicity attempted
to give an account of this prayer.

Don John opened wide eyes of surprise
at his sister, but they had sufficient reverence
for her childhood not to offer any
comment.

And he says that God loves us," she
continued, " and so we ought to love
people — and poor people too."

'' But, my dear little woman," exclaimed
Don John, not at all irreverently, '' I think
we knew that before Captain Leslie came
here."

Yes," said Mary, '' but I did not think
about it ; and now I am going to love the
poor people, you know."

"And Mary took one of her birthday
half-crowns to give to Miss Jenny ; she
asked him if he thought that would be a
good thing to do ; and I went with them
to give it," said Naomi, still quite gravely.
And Mrs. Carbon, who generally knows
how to adapt her talk to her company,
made rather a mistake, and got herself reproved,
for she told us her nephew had
taken her to an entertainment in London,
which she had very much enjoyed. Captain
Leslie asked what it was about, and she
said, 'Well, I can't hardly tell you, sir, what
it was about, but there was a good deal
of music, and Cupid came down and sang
something sacred, his wings were beyond
anything, sir, they were as natural as life.'
Then Captain Leslie said he hoped she
was not in the habit of frequenting the
theatres ; and she assured him she had
never been to one before, poor old soul !
and she was vexed with herself for having

told, and Miss Jenny groaned and was
very much edified."

'' And then we went on to Mrs. Black's,
to give her my other half-crown," said
Mary shrewdly, " and he asked her if she
went to chmxh, and she said ' she'd been
so massacred with the rheumatism that
nobody couldn't expect it of her,' and
then Captain Leslie laughed, and he said
afterwards he was sorry he had done it, and
it showed a great want of self-control."

Poor old Carbon ! " exclaimed Don
John, '' the idea of her frequenting the
theatres ! I don't think she has been in
London more than three times in her life."

Then Naomi went on : " She said afterwards,
' I know your pa's rather in the
same line as that gentleman, miss, and
never takes you to the theatres, but yet I
shouldn't have minded letting him know,
for he's not so straight-laced. However,'
she went on, ' Captain Leslie's a powerful

VOL. II. E

pious gentleman, no doubt, and one like
Mm it was that sent a tract to poor old
Mrs. Smart on lier death-bed. It was
called ' The dying Malefactor.' If ever
there was a peaceable, humble, blameless
creature, it was that woman, and a joined
member too of the Methodist connexion,
but this world had got that hold on her
still, that when I'd opened the envelope
for her, and she saw it began in large
letters "To you," she burst out laughing,
and she and I talked a good bit over it.
It seemed such a queer thing to have
done. I don't deny that we did let a few
secular words pass over our tongues, till
her daughter that is a Methodist too got
vexed, and she says, ' Now, mother, you
have no call to think of these worldly
matters any more, you lie still and mind
your dying.' Miss Jenny had groaned a
good deal during this talk, but she never
dares to interrupt her sister. As soon as

there was a pause site said, ' True it is
that Sarah Smart laughed on her deathbed,
but I have good hope as it was never
laid to her charge.'

* No,' exclaimed Mrs. Clarboj, who
never can understand Jenny's point of
view, ^ she was a good-living woman, and
the Almighty (I say it reverently) would
never take notice of such a small sound
such a long way off.'

' It's not that,' cried Jenny, ' it was
that she was not one to put the least trust
in her own works, she trusted in the Rock
of our salvation, and three days after she
died triumphant.' "

'' If I was a guardian angel," exclaimed
Charlotte, " and might choose, I would
never wait on people like us, but always on
the poor — such people as these. When do
we ever say things so beautiful in their
simpleness ? "

'' Yes," observed little Mary, " the
R 2

angels must be very much amused with
them."

Charlotte and Don John exchanged
glances; "I think, if I were you, I would
include children in my choice," he said.

'' But I forgot to add," observed
Naomi, " that Miss Jenny ended her account
of Mrs. Smart by saying, ' She's
gone where there's no more sorrow — nor
laughing neither ; ' and Charlotte said,
Oh, Miss Jenny, I hope not, I think we
shall often laugh in heaven.' "

But don't we think that at least angels
can laugh ? " asked Mary.

'' There can be no laughing in heaven
or among heavenly creatures that has
malice in it — but many things witty and
droll are without that."

"But, Charlotte, if I met Don John in
heaven, I should like him to call me
button-nose ; ' do you really think he
never will ? "

'" I am almost sure of it, — lie invented
that name to make game of you, only for
fun, you know, but still it was malice."

*' Well, then, I shall say to him, ' Though
you are not to say it here, you must not
forget that you used to say it.' "

*' But why do you want it to be remembered
? "

He never said it when he was cross,
but when 1 sprained my ankle and he used
to carry me about the garden he did, and
when you used all to be doing ' Fetch,' and
Freddy and I knocked at the door, if we
were not to come in he always shouted out,
No, you two kids must go ;' but when
Fred was gone back to school and I
knocked sometimes, he said, ' Oh, it's only
button nose,' and then I knew I might
come in. So, as it's kind malice, I should
like him to remember; for you know I
couldn't help being the youngest."

Well, no, I do not see that you could,"

but, Mary, I shouldn't wonder if when you
get to heaven you find you're the eldest ;
don't you know that it says in the Bible,
the last shall be first and the first last ? "

"Do you think I shall be older than you,
then, Don John ? "

It might be so — "

I shall take great care of you, then,
and if you are a baby when you come, I
shall carry you about and show you all the
beautiful things."

CHAPTER XI.

Don John, now that his short holiday in
Scotland was over, fell at once into his
regular work, going np to London daily
with his father. Meanwhile Captain Leslie
spent a few weeks at different English
watering-places in search of health which
almost to his surprise he did not find. He
meant eventually to live in Scotland, where
he had some distant cousins, his only relatives
excepting Mrs. Johnston, but first he
had wanted to see Don John and Estelle's
eldest daughter Marjorie.

Don John had said in joke of his grandmother
that she was not grown. Marjorie,
under the auspices of this same grandmother,

grew very fast during the months
lie spent at Edinburgh and its neighbourhood.


She was of a grave and gentle nature, moderate
in her demands of Hfe as to pleasure,
and she was high principled and tender.

This same girl, who had not cared for an
early marriage for her own sake, found a
certain charm in it now that her grand *
mother had linked it in her thoughts with
duty and even with self-sacrifice. She
would not make more men unhappy, nor
unsettle any for her sake, but she would
essay to be an elevating hope and then a
helpmate and a comfort to one ; she would
do her part to make one man and one home
what God meant that they should be.

There are such people in the world,
they need sometimes to have it discovered
to them that such they are, and then they
need a little guiding. Marjorie had only a
very little of this last, but she had also the

advantage of being away from a sister and
a cousin who were much inclined to criticize
and make game of her lovers ; and,
further, she had the advantage of a lover
who had many manly qualities, and among
them a capacity for all the improvement
that comes to manhood from loving a
beautiful and pure-minded young woman.

Marjorie, instead of amusing herself with
this lover, looked out for his good qualities.
He was of average height, of average
good looks, his position in life was such asher
own, he had excellent principles, he
could afford to marry, and he loved her.
This was his case, as she said to herself at
the end of a week ; and hers was that she
was inclined to be pleased with him, and
to think a good deal of the self-sacrifice
which life as a general rule demands of
woman.

At the end of another week, she thought
about this again, but as to average good

looks, anybody might see that his was a
face which grew upon one. It was while
she was dressing for dinner that she passed
him in review on this second occasion, but
there was not as much time as before to
think of the self-sacrifice, because she had
not quite finished considering his agreeable
countenance when it was time to go
down to dinner. He was coming to dinner.
Don John was to go away the next morning.
The brother and sister were alone
together for a few minutes at night before
they retired. Marjorie, seated by a little
table, was untying some tawny roses and
putting them in water.

Don John had never said a word yet to
his sister about young Foden. He now
remarked that her flowers appeared to
require a great deal of attention.

Yes," answered Marjorie, " I shall take
care of them because I have told Duncan that
he is only to bring them every other day."

Oh," said Don Jolin, and presently
Marjorie said, —

What do you think of him ? "

*' I think he is one of the jolliest fellows
I ever knew," answered Don John ; " he's
so jolly straightforward and manly."

Marjorie was pleased with this tribute
to Duncan Dilke Foden, boyish though it
might be.

He beats Campbell to fits," continued
Don John.

Oh, you don't care about Campbell,
then?"

"No."

*' Nor do I."

Then after a pause, —

'* Don John ? "

"Marjorie."

Though Campbell paid me so much
attention, he — he went away without
making me an offer."

Just like his impudence."

Oil, but I was going to tell you that
lie wrote to me at home, where lie thought
I was, and yesterday mother sent me on
the letter. He said he felt that on reflection
he could not bear to be parted from
me, and he had made up his mind to offer
me his hand."

Just like his impudence again ! Made
up his mind, I like that. I call it quite
a providence his having the chicken-pox,
quite a providence and nothing
less."

I should like you to take his letter back
to mother, and tell her — "

'' Well, tell her ? "

Of course till he made me an offer I
had no right to consider him a lover — "

'•' 'No, any more than you could any
other fellow who had not yet offered his
hand—"

The last two remarks probably came in
by way of parenthesis, but Marjorie went on

as if she found the second very much to the
point.

"Of course nos, so I want you to tell
mother that even if I was sure no one else
would ever ask mo to marry him, I must
have answered Campbell as I did this
morning. I said it could not be."

I will tell her that."

And nothing else."

Well, so far as your having offers, there
is, as I suppose, nothing to tell."

'' Of course not."

All right," answered Don John, and
then they were silent for a few minutes,
when Marjorie suddenly asked, —

'' What is the middle height for a man,
Don John ? "

Oh, from five feet seven to five feet
nine. I measure five feet eight."

Marjorie reflected awhile, then she
said, —

"' They always say the strongest men are

those of middle height. It's just as well
not to be too tall."

Just as well," echoed Don John. He
was in the habit of thus fervently endorsing
his sisters' remarks when he wished
to call their attention to them as absurd.

Marjorie laughed, but she blushed too,
and then the brother and sister kissed and
took leave of one another, for Don John
was to start early the next morning, almost
before dawn. He left his grandmother in
rather an uneasy state of mind. She saw
no reason to think that Marjorie cared for
young Foden, but she perceived that she
was giving him every kind of modest encouragement,
and from time to time Marjorie
sent a stab to her heart by making
remarks which evidently showed that she
had taken her grandmother's advice in
good earnest, and would be actually glad
to follow it if she could.

This good lady had all her life loved to

give advice ; she had been liberal as to the
quantity of it, and fervent as to the
manner ; but she had become fearless,
because, weighty though she felt it to be, it
hardly ever took effect. She remembered
but two instances in which it had. These
were important ones, it is true. She could
not regret the first ; she might have cause
deeply to regret the second.

'' And it was hardly advice at all," she
would sigh, when thinking this over. " It
amounted to no more than suggestion. I
have put something into her head ; who
would have expected her to be so docile ? "

So the grandmother thought ; but she
could do no more in this matter than her
son had done, when, Donald being a little
boy, he had once come in from the garden
with a large basket of very fine pears just
gathered, and had set them on the hall table.

The little fellow ran up and regarded
them with open admiration, and his father

said, in a bantering tone, '' Do you think,
Donald, if you were to try, you could eat
all those pears before dinner ? "

"I'm not sure whether I could," answered
the child, scanning the half-bushel
basket seriously.

'' What, not to please papa ! " exclaimed
the father, bantering him ; and being just
then called away, the boy and the pears
were left alone for about twenty minutes,
at the end of which time Donald the elder
coming back, Donald the younger greeted
him in all good faith with, —

Well, father, what do you think ? — I'm
getting on — I've eaten nine."

Nine very large pears, — their stalks and
their cores were laid in a row for his inspection.
Donald the younger, strange to
say, was none the worse, but Donald the
elder was much the better : in talking to
his children he took more pains ever after
to make his meaning plain.

And now Don John lead come home
again, and was holding his head rather
higher than usual. Like many another
very 3^oung man, he had a sufficiently high
notion of his own importance both in the
world and in his family.

None but the unthinking or the coldhearted
are seriously displeased with this
quality in the very young. It is in fact
rather pathetic, rather touching ; a proof
of ignorance as to what life, time, and
trouble really are. And it often goes so
soon ! Perhaps it is just as well that they
should begin by thinking they are todo
a good deal, and have a good deal, for
nothing can be worse than to despond
beforehand.

Despond indeed ! Who talks of desponding
when things are so jolly ? Don John
exulted every day of his life. It is true
that he had been perfectly wrong as to
Campbell, but then if it had not been for

VOL. II. s

him Marjorie never could have met with
Foden. When he thought of this he
whistled and sang every morning while he
stopped his razor preparatory to the
morning shave. He only shaved his very
light moustache as yet, to encourage it to
come on. His whiskers were but a hope
at present, they had not sprouted.

His father's dressing-room was next
to Don John's little bedroom, and when he
heard the outbreaks of whistling, singing,
and other signs of good health and good
spirits that the young gentleman indulged
in while dressing, Donald Johnston sometimes
thought of the pleasure expressed
by the poet Emerson on hearing a young
cock crow. It is somewhat to this effect :
When I wake in the morning, and hear a
young cock lustily crowing I think to myself,
Here, at least, is a fellow-creature who
is in the best of health and spirits. One of
us, he would have us know, is well, and has

no doubt as to Ms right to a place in
creation. And this," tie goes on to remark,
is a pleasant thing to be assured of
in this doubting, low-spirited, dyspeptic
age."

Somebody rapped at Don Holm's door,
when lie had been at home two days. He
opened it with a little lather on his upper
lip. It is possible that he was not sorry to
exhibit this to Naomi, who was standing
there.

*' Come into the play-room as fast as you
can," she exclaimed; 'something has happened
! '* and she darted off without telling
him what it was.

The celerity with which he obeyed the
summons may be held to prove that
shaving was not actually necessary, it
must have been performed daily more asa
pleasure than as a duty.

Charlotte was in the play-room, she had
a letter in her hand, and looked at him ass
2

if so much flustered, so much overwhelmed
by the weighty event which had taken
place, that she knew not how to utter it.

Don John sat down on the deal table —
a favourite place of his. He surveyed
Charlotte and his sister. " It's an offer ! '*
he exclaimed. " Charlotte, you've had an
offer ; it can be nothing less."

Oh, dear no," exclaimed Naomi ; '' it's
nothing so commonplace ! Your conspiracy
that we helped you with came to
nothing; but we contrived a better one
while you were away, and it has succeeded,
and nobody knows what it may end in ! "

"Yes," said Charlotte, "lean now see
a vista opening before me ! "

She handed him a piece of paper : as
it was a post-office order for 21. 10s.,
he may have been forgiven for exclaiming,
I don't think much of the vista if this is

it."

But we hope it's only the first of a

great many. Now listen ; Cliarlotte and I,
when you were gone, looked over all lier
verses and essays and things, and chose
out four, which I copied beautifully at
her dictation, and we sent them to four
magazines ; three were rejected, and we
were getting rather despondent, but one is
accepted, and this money is come, and here's
the magazine with her thing in it — and
among the notices to correspondents, ' We
shall be glad to hear from a Daughter of
Erin again.' "

*' Poetess ! I'm stumped ! " exclaimed
Don John. " Even if you'd had an offer, I
could not have been more surprised. Shake
hands ; to think that anything should have
been written on this inky, rickety deal table,
that I have cut my name in with a buck-handled
knife, and burnt my name in with
a red-hot joker ! To think, I say ! 'No,
I am not equal to thinking or saying anything
— the most burning words would not

blaze liigli enough — tliej surge disconnected
in my brain. Type — Fame —
Wealth — Pica — Epics — Colons, and last,
not least — Cousins. I am your cousin,
Charlotte; when you become famous I
should wish to have that remembered."
He fell into thought. " No," he went on.
I never could have believed it."

"Of course not," said Charlotte, "you
always made game of my things, and now
you see ! "

Some of those poems, whoever pays for
them, were the very mildest lot I ever set
my eyes on. Everything you have ever
done is the better for my criticism."
■; "Yes, I know, I always said you had
good taste and great critical faculty — and
now I consider that really — in order that I
may not lose all this money, &c., it will be
your duty to help me as much as you can."

The young person, though she laughs,
is quite in earnest. Yes, that is what

things are rapidly coming to. Some years
ago this might have been thought affecting.
Here is a young man, shall I say it ? in
his early prime, I think, girls, a fellow of
my age — "

"Just beginning to shave," interrupted
Naomi.

'* May so characterize himself — "

'ras he swings his legs, sitting on the
play-room table."

Without undue self-laudation (the
voice of a poetess should never be strained
to such a shriek as that !) — a fellow, I
say—

He says," echoed Naomi.

A fellow, I repeat," shouted Don John,
"just launched into the responsibilities of
life, and it is suggested to him as the
most useful thing he can do, to criticize
the poetry of a girl ; I say it's enough to
make a Stoic grin ; yes, she belongs to the
dominant sex."

My dears," exclaimed Mrs. Johnston,
looking in, '' are you aware that your
father has been calling you for some time ?
What is all this laughing and shouting
about ? "

"And what is Don John roaring out
for about the responsibilities of life ? " said
Donald Senior, looking over her shoulder.

Oh, father and mother ! " exclaimed
Don John, '' I hope you'll take my part,
I am so crowed over by the superior
sex ! "

'' Is that all ? " said Donald Johnston.
Do you good. Come down to breakfast,
my Star, and teach your son to imitate
his father ; put yourself in your right place,
my boy, and you will never be crowed over ;
you should submit the moment you find
out what they wish, and then they will
have no occasion to crow."

A henpecked man never talks thus ; but
the wife in this case was well aware that

either her husband's love for her, or his
deference to her wishes, or his dependence
on her judgment, made her very much what
he often called her, his guiding star. Asa
rule he found out what she wished, and
did it. But he was so absolutely blind
to this fact that he rather liked to boast
of it, and talk about the yoke of matrimony,
which he never would have done
if he had felt it.

But there were occasions when he would
announce an intention, and then she never
interfered.

'* It never rains," says the proverb,
but it pours."

This remarkable news concerning Charlotte
had not been half enough wondered
at and discussed when the letters came in :
one was from Edinburgh, as Don John
saw at a glance before his father opened
it, and one in Lanceyy's handwriting, which
was handed to his mother.

Duncan Dilke Foden " was the signature
of the Edinburgh letter, and before
breakfast was over Charlotte and Naomi
heard, to their great astonishment, that
the said Duncan Dilke Foden, having
made Marjorie an offer, she had desired
him to write to her father.

With one consent his two fellow-conspirators
looked fixedly at Don John, he
must have known that this event was probable,
and he had kept them out of his
counsels. But the event was very interesting.
Mrs. Johnston read the letter,
and handed it back again, when it was
read aloud.

Just like Foden," thought Don John,
who could not help noticing that neither
father nor mother showed the least surprise.


As no one spoke, Don John said, while
Mr. Johnston folded up the letter, " I
call it jolly respectful to you, father.

Foden is such a fine, straightforward fellows'*


'' Yes, the missive really reminds one,
in spirit, at any rate, of some of the old
Pastor letters, ' Right worshipful, and mine
especial good master, I commend me to your
mastership as loivly as I may, and do you
to iveet that an it please you I am fain to
seek your favour with the fair maid, my
Mistress Marjorie, your daughters This
must be a great surprise to you, my
boy?"

Don John looked a little foolish when
his father said this ; he wondered how
much his parents knew, or suspected ; was
it possible that his grandmother had betrayed
him ?

A look darted at him by Naomi showed
that she was thinking of the same thing.

He could not help glancing at his mother,
but she gave him one of her benignant
smiles that told nothing excepting that she

was " well pleased to see her cMd respected
like the lave."

And the other letter ? Well, there was to
be no end to the surprises of that morning.
Lanceyy was coming home.

CHAPTER XII.

Ix another fortnight letters were received
again from Lanceyy. They appeared to
show an altered frame of-mind, and opened
a question which hitherto he had managed
to evade and put by. " He knew he had
acted very badly, he had felt this for a longtime.
It was wrong to have thus gone
away and kept away. He humbly begged
pardon — would his dear father and mother
forgive him ? "

This in the first letter. In the second,
by the same mail, but dated a week later,
Lanceyy said that he and his mamma were
miserable ; that she was very much
afraid of her new husband; she had no

settlements, and could not draw her own
dividends. He had been very kind to her,
till he had got her property into his own
hands, and he now said that her son was an
undutiful fellow, and ought to go back at
once to the good friends whom he had left
in England. That he would advance him
enough money to pay the passage, which
was all he should do for him. He ought
long ago to have been earning his own
living.

This second letter was addressed to Don
John, who for a week or two after its
arrival was almost as miserable as Lanceyy
said he was himself.

But another mail day went by, and there
was no letter at all; then again the day
passed, and Don John made up his mind
that Lanceyy must be coming. He still retained
an affection for Lanceyy, though in
the minds of his sisters such a feeling had
begun to fade. Don John knew all Lanceyy's

faults and delinquencies, yet he clung to
him without effort. The girls knew none
of his delinquencies, but sometimes one
would say to another, " We ought not to
forget him, poor fellow, considering how
fond father and mother have always been
of him."

As for Charlotte, she thought of him a
good deal, but his behaviour, which at first
had given her very keen pain, because she
would not understand it, began in time to
show itself in its true light. At first she
would not see that he had meanly taken
advantage of the Johns tones, had got
away and kept away against their will;
that he was shifty about the letters ; that
he pretended not to understand ; that he
was amusing himself as long as he dared,
hoping to come back when he must, and
throw himself on their bounty and goodness
again. When Charlotte did begin to
gee this, she was ashamed for him, and all

the more because her own ideas of right
and duty and gratitude were high. She
also had a home in the same house which
had sheltered him.

She scorned herself when she found that
she had for many months been tacitly excusing
his conduct to her own mind, as if it
was not his duty to do the same things
which in such a case would have been her
duty ; as if wrong could possibly be right
for his sake. " Could I misunderstand as he
professes to do ? What should I deserve if
I treated my uncle and aunt thus ? "

Charlotte for several months thought a
good deal more about this than was consistent
with her own peace. She could not
help arguing the matter over, she was often
weary of the subject and of Lanceyy too.
Yes, at last she began to feel this, and then
well, then, happily for her, she ceased
almost suddenly to think about it. The
tired mind, which was vigilant in its desire

to forget, fell asleep over the subject
unawares, and when it woke up again,
the importunate presence was withdrawn.
Charlotte soon began to forget how importunate
it had been. Of course she had not
loved him, but he had touched her imagination,
and she soon must have loved him if
he had not made her ashamed for his sake.

*' It has been a rude shock to me,"
Charlotte sometimes thought. " I am
obliged to see that he is mean, and not
straightforward. I never can care for him
as I might have done."

In the meantime Marjorie stayed three
months at Edinburgh, was now engaged to
young Foden, and about to return home.

The summer was passing, Charlotte had
been invited to contribute to a well-known
magazine, and when Lanceyy and his return,
and Marjorie and her engagement had
been discussed in all their bearings, this
affair of hers continued to afford constant

VOL. 11. T

talk, in which no one was more interested
than Don John.

Even Mrs. Johnston appeared to find
the subject interesting, at least she frequently
came and sat in the old play-room
after Don John had come home in the
afternoon. There she would quietly work
and look on, and weigh in her mind something
that Captain Leslie had said. She
saw no good ground for his supposition,
but she made many reflections as to
whether any change in existing arrangements
would tend to bring such a thing
on or not.

But, no, there was no ground for such a
thought, none at all. Don John was
almost uncivil to Charlotte ; but though
he gave his opinion about her writings
with a lordly air of superiority, he wished
her to get on, because as he graciously
remarked " she is one of us."

'snow, look here," he was saying once,

when, the conversation getting animated,
lie was drawn from her considerations
about Marjorie and about Lanceyy to look
at and to listen to him ; " you always
talk about the poets as if they were such
sacred creatures that it is quite taking a
liberty to see that there was any humbug
in them even after they are dead. There
is Wordsworth, for instance — "

Any humbug in Wordsworth ? how
dare you !"

I grant you that he was crammed full
of human nature. He was full of us and
the place we live in. We take a beautiful
pathetic pleasure in reading him, because
we like that a man who knew us so well
should love us so much. But it was humbug
in him to say that everything the poet
writes is valuable and interesting because
he writes it — for — for it isn't."

'' Splendid reasoning," exclaimed Charlotte,
'^ and quite unanswerable !"
T 2

Don John, seated on the table, was
making a derry net. Charlotte and
Naomi, standing at two easels, were
painting decorations for a cottage hospital.
Don John brandished the mesh and went
on, delighted to see Charlotte fire np.

I've never thought so much of that old
boy since I found out that he did not
know how to pronounce his own language."


My dear," exclaimed his mother, beguiled
into remonstrance, '' what can you
mean ? "

Well, mother, listen to this —

I've heard of hearts mankind, kind hearts

With coldness still returning,
Alas the gratitude of men,

Hath oftener left me mourning.'

You see he pronounced ' mourning ' as
if it rhymed with ' returning,' which is the
north country provincial way."

Accidental," exclaimed Charlotte ; " it

woiilcl have been out of the question to
spoil such an exquisitely beautiful verse
for the sake of a more perfect rhyme."

'' I quite agree that the verse is
beautiful ; but, Charlotte, he always rhymes
mourning ' with such a word as ' burning '
or ' returning.' I defy you to find a case
where he did not."

'' Then," said Charlotte, after a moment
of cogitation, " perhaps that is the right
way."

That answer was just like you. As
to Pope, I am almost sure he spoke with
several provincial peculiarities. Look at
his inscription on his grotto : —

Let sncli, such only tread this sacred floor
As dare to love their country and be poor.'

You see he pronounced ' poor ' as Miss
Jenny does * pore.' "

'' Nothing of the sort. It is a modern
invention to be so particular about rhymes.

Pope felfc a noble carelessness about them.
So did Wordsworth. At the same time
I must admit that one has sometimes very
deeply to regret his carelessness in other
respects. That most beautiful poem, for
instance, on '' The lesser Celandine," howe
took away from its perfectness by not
being at the trouble to arrange the last
verse properly ! I dare say he dictated it
first to his wife or his sister, and never
looked at it afterwards. The states
mentioned in the first two lines are meant
to be contrasted, not the one worse than
the other, but he says, —

To be a prodigal's favourite — then worse truth,
A miser's pensioner — behold our lot !

O man, that from thy fair and shining youth,

Age might but take the things youth needed not! ' "

Well, I see nothing the matter with
it excepting that it is a pity he put in the
word ' youth ' twice. But he was obliged

to do so in order to have a rhyme for

truth.' To be sure this rather spoils the
climax."

Of course it does. I have so often
wished he had written just a little differently,
it would have been so easy. Thus :

To be a prodigal's favourite — then forlorn
— (forlorn of that delightful favouritism,
you know, and made) ' a miser's
pensioner.'

To be a prodigal's favourite — then forlorn,

A miser's pensioner, — behold our lot !
man, that from thy fair and shining morn,

Age might but take the things youth needed not ! ' "

Well, that is what I call audacity !
That's the real thing. If the critics could
only hear you improving Wordsworth,
wouldn't you catch it ! "

Of course I should ; but they never
will ! And now be quite fair, for once.
If you had first seen the lines according
to my version, and had thought it was

the original, should you not have been
very angry with me if I had proposed to
alter it and put it as it now stands ? "

I shall not argue with you, arguing as a
rule sets me so fast in my own opinion. And,
Charlotte, you are not asked to write reviews,
you know ; if you were, there is no
evil and contemptuous thing that reviewers
may not say of authors and their works ;
but I never met with one yet who after
saying that a poet was a fool wrote an improved
version of his lines to show the
reader what they should have been."

"Why should you be surprised at my
criticizing things ? " said Charlotte. " All
intelligent reading is critical. Even our
admiration of a master-piece is our criticism
of it ; we judge it to be fine and true."

She said the other day," observed
Naomi, " that Keats wrote of Greek
scenery as if he was describing an English
market-garden."

Charlotte excused herself. " I said he

wrote not differently of ' The sides of

Patmos ' and of an English wood and

brook. He is here in spring, —

While the willow trails
Its delicate amber, and the dairy pails
Bring home increase of milk,'

and he hopes to write a good deal before

the daisies

Hide in deep herbage, and ere yet the bees
Hum about globes of clover and sweet peas.*

Then forthwith he is in a mighty forest on
the sides of Patmos,

Paths there were many,
Winding through palmy fern and rushes fenny
And ivy banks.'

Then he comes to a wide lawn —

'Who could tell
The freshness of the space of heaven above
Edged round with dark tree-tops through which a

dove
Would often beat its wings, and often too
A little cloud would move across the blue.'

Is not that England?"

Certain sure. But you must not
forget that in classic times there were
forests in Greece, though it is as bare
as a down now."

But was there 'rain-scented eglantine' ?
did the cold springs run

To warm their cliiUiest bubbles in the grass ' ? "

Don John reflected — then shirked the
question and disposed of the poets.

I don't know; Keats is a muff". I
couldn't read him half through. Wordsworth
I respect, he knows all about me.
But I think, as you delight in him so much,
it is odd you are so fond of choosing out
pretty and beautiful things to write about,
instead of choosing to make homely things
beautiful as he did."

I write of what I see," said Charlotte.
We do not all live in the same world. In
the swallow's world, though it be our world,
there is no snow."

'' Yes, but though the swallows never

heard of snow that is not the less their
own doing. They live always in the
light and the sunshine because they goto
seek them. You mean that you too
may go in search of sunshine if you
please."

I suppose I do."

But the swallows are inferior to the
robins for ever, because these last have
experience of summer and winter too.
However," continued Don John, '' I am
rather sick of the fine things written lately
about birds. I suppose we shall hear next
that they admire the sunsets."

But it is nice," said Naomi, " to know
that they delight in gay colours just as we
do."

'' Yes, and to be told almost in the same
breath that man has himself only developed
the colour faculty very lately indeed. Well,
all I know is that I have frequently with a
pewter spoon taken a pink egg streaked

with brown, and put it into a nest full of
blue ones. If the bird I gave it to could
see the difference between blue and pink,
why did she sit upon and hatch the alien

egg?"

Perhaps some birds are colour-blind, as
some of us are," said little Mary, speaking
for the first time.

I have sometimes thought," said
Charlotte, "that whole generations and
ages saw things differently as to colour.
The ancients all agree that a comet is a
lurid, a portentous and a red-coloured light
in the heavens. Up to about two hundred
years ago we never hear them spoken of
as anything but red ; but the comet I have
seen could never have suggested anything
but a pathetic calm, infinite isolation, and
it had a pure pallor which made the stars
look yellow."

'* I saw one once when I was a little girl''
said Mary, " it had a long tail, but the

next time they showed it to me the tail was
all gone."

That tail," said Don John, '' was the
comet's ' horrent hair,' it got in between
the sun and the planets, so it is probable
that they sent for a number of old Daily
Telegraphs, the largest paper in the world,
you know, and twisted it all up in curl-papers
to be out of the way."

'' They didn't."

Well, then, perhaps the sun pulled all
the comet's hair off to fill up his spots
with."

No, Don John," said Mary, with sage
gravity, " I would rather believe about the
curl-papers than believe that."

Thereby you show your discretion,
Mary, "always believe the most likely
thing."

Whether he would have gone on to
explain this celestial matter to her, will
never now be known, for at that moment a

servant, one new to the house, flung open
the door, and not at all aware what a
commotion the name would excite, announced,
—

Mr. Lancelot Airdd."

Lance J was among them ; he had kissed
his mother and sisters, Charlotte had
greeted and shaken hands with him, and
Don John was still clapping him on the
back, laughing, shaking hands with him
over and over again, then stepping back to
exclaim on his growth and altered appearance,
then coming close and shaking
hands again, when he suddenly caught
sight of his mother's face, and both the
young men paused surprised.

There was for a moment an awkward
pause. Mrs. Johnston, who had risen,
was winding the loose worsted round a ball
with which she had been knitting ; when she
looked at Lanceyy, her eyes, more moist than
usual, had a pathetic regret in them. '

She said calmly, *' Have you seen your
father yet ? "

No, mother," answered Lanceyy, looking
very foolish.

Father's in the orchard, I'll go and tell
him ! " exclaimed little Mary, dancing out
of the room, and almost at the same
instant Naomi and Charlotte, each feeling
that the manner of Lanceyy's reception at
home was unexpected, stole quietly after
her.

Don John felt his mother's manner with
a keenness that was almost revolt against
it. If he had been away so long and had
been so met, he thought it would have
gone near to breaking his heart, but he
also saw instantly, because it was quite
evident, that Lanceyy was not hurt in his
affections, he was only a good deal
ashamed. He had planned to take them
unawares.

You should have asked his leave before

you appeared among your brothers and
sisters," lie went on — oh, so gently. And
then she sighed, and the two tears that had
dazzled her eyes fell on her cheeks, which
were coloured with an unusual agitation.

If Lanceyy had fallen on her neck, and
kissed them away and implored forgiveness,
it might even at that pass have been
different.

But no, it was Don John who did that,
while Lanceyy, looking red and irate,
turned to the window, and appeared to
look out.

Oh, my mother ! " exclaimed Don
John, in a voice full of remonstrance and
astonishment.

She answered calmly, looking into his
eyes,—

Yes, my son."

You will beg father to forgive him, if —
if indeed there can be any doubt about it.
Mother ! what can this mean — mother ? "

His arm was still on her shoulder, she
took her handkerchief , and wiping away her
tears, said, " Lanceyy ;" and when he turned
from the window she kissed him a second
time.

Father has come in and gone into your
dressing-room, mother, and he says Lanceyy
is to go to him there," said little Mary,
returning.

No, mother, not there ! " said Lanceyy,
turning white to the lips. He had hoped
to the last moment; now, before he knew
what he was about, he had betrayed himself.


When Lanceyy appeared at the dressing-room
door with his mother, Don John was
there, pale, shocked, faltering, choking, he
had been entreating, questioning, what
could Lanceyy have done ? what did it
mean ?

'' You will forgive hin ! " he exclaimed.
I don't know — I cannot believe that

VOL. II. u

there is no more than I know — but I
cannot bear my life unless you forgive
him."

Lanceyy listened with eager hope. It
was but an instant. Then before any
greeting was given to himself, Donald
Johnston put his two hands on the young
Donald's shoulders, and looked aside to his
wife.

She said, " Your poor son Lanceyy
comes to submit himself to you, and to
confess."

You will forgive him, then, whatever it
may be, father ? " cried Don John.

^' My much-loved son," was the reply.
If I had no better and stronger reason,
I would forgive him for your sake."

END OF VOL. II.

Q-ILBEET AND Divination, Painters,

ST. JOHN'S SQIJAEE.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 084213906

■■H:''*:

;':.":J:'H'i

i/'^i'-i.

:'^-^ni

I !

Pii

{;V,-'^{ =

;'^^^;•?;^, i.

i' 1 •' ' ( '

■ • ' u '■,,.-■)■■' i< S ?' >* ,n M » j ^; , '

\\yr.i'.nf\

■■■ /,:'" -. ■-(■ V. -f t nes >.ti

186, STRAND, LONDON.
AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

For THREE „ " I 1 - ^ .1 'S ' I ^3

,ft For FOUR » "^-'i^^S'li

For.SIX ,,„ " '• - . - 8 O O -8 »

For TWELVE „ »»

O
O
O 1

L

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

82.3

In4c|
V.3

DON JOHN,

» VOL. III.

Gilbert AND EIVINGTON, Painters,
ST. JOHN'S SQTJAEE.

% ^tm

By JEAN Angelo

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Horton :
SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS. 188, FLEET STREET,

1881.

eau rights reserved. ]

V.5

DON JOHN

CHAPTER I.

Sometimes one who has very good cause
for suspicion against another, repudiates
it heartily for a long time, and obstinately
holds on to a hope that it is groundless.

On the memorable day of the picnic,
the day when Lanceyy stole the ring, his
mother, as she entered her dressing-room
after coming home, noticed a small piece
of folded writing-paper on the floor, under
her table. She picked it up carelessly; it
was one leaf of a ridiculous letter from
Don John to Lanceyy. It had been shown
to her already, was full of jokes, in fact

VOL. III. B

it was droll enough to make lier wish to
read it a second time, and lie put it in her
pocket.

She had a good deal to think of just
then besides parting with Lanceyy, and
as soon as he was gone she went into her
dressing-room, to revolve a little plan for
producing, as she hoped, about two hundred
pounds. Before she went to the
picnic she had put in order all her
jewellery; there was much more than she
ever used. Her husband had told her of
a loss he had lately had on some shares ;
if he would let her part with some of it,
this loss would be made up without the
least inconvenience of any kind.

Lanceyy had only been gone a few hours ;
her mind was still full of him, of his eagerness
to get away, of the little love with
which he repaid theirs — when she went upto
her jewel-box again, and found to her
surprise, but not ' to her dismay, that it
was unlocked; she must have left it so.

but it was most unlikely that any one
should have noticed this fact. She beoran
gently to take out the jewellery she meant
to part with, and was not in the least disturbed
till she missed the ring. It had
been in her hand so recently, she would
not believe that it was gone ; but it was
not till the box had been searched a
second time that the finding of that little
piece of folded paper flashed into her
mind, and made her feel sick at heart.
She told her husband, and at first, as
Lanceyy had foreseen, they both felt very
angry with themselves for having harboured
such a suspicion. It seemed a
shame that they could, for an instant,
believe him base enough to steal from
THEM. And yet the letter had been
found there — and yet the ring was gone !

He had perfectly believed that no suspicion
attached to him, because, though
the letters had expressed displeasure and
surprise, no mention had ever been made
B 2

of this ring. But his guilty conscience
accused him to such a degree when he saw
Mrs. Johnston's face, that he no sooner
heard where his so-called father meant to
receive him, than he gave up all for lost.

And yet, in one sense, all was not lost.
Whatever he did, they would not, they
could not, altogether give him up.

"I shall receive him in this room,"
Donald Johnston had said of his adopted
son, " and if he bears the ordeal badly — "

"Yes," she answered, "if he bears it
badly, we may get him once more to confess
and repent; but what if he bears it
well? We cannot accuse him."

There was no need to accuse him.
The deed which had been done was not
named — it was taken for granted.

Our taking this thing for granted,"
said Mr. Johnston, " ought to show you
how deep is your disgrace."

The adopted son hung his head; he
was alone now with his parents.

"If you had been my own son — do you
hear?"

Yes, sir," said Lanceyy ; he did not
dare to say " father."

'* If you were my own son now standing
before me, and accusing his conscience
of having robbed me, even me — if it had
been Don John that had done this, I never
would have spoken to him more ; but you
you have no father — and you are unfortunate
in your mother."

He paused, appearing to hesitate ; and
Lanceyy, though very much frightened, was
astonished too — he lifted his daunted face.
The adopted father had turned away
from him, and gone to the window. Yes,
it actually was so — he perceived that he
was to be forgiven.

He was intensely relieved, but he felt,
almost with terror, that he could not call
up that amount of emotion, and above all
of deep affection, which could alone meet
suitably the love and grief that he saw
before him.

He bungled through this scene as well
as he could.

He meant to live at home again if they
would let him, and submit himself to the
yoke — at any rate till he could get some
more money, for he was penniless. But
work and restraint were now more distasteful
to him than ever ; money and idleness
had afforded him ample opportunity
to cultivate the knowledge of things evil,
and he had done this with diligence.

He still retained a certain degree of
affection for Don John, but he was so surprised
by a few things incidentally said by
him, that he paused to make further observations
before talking confidentially to
him on life, as he now unfortunately
thought of it, on its fashions and experiences.
He hardly knew, after a day or
two, whether he looked upon Don John
with most astonishment or most contempt,
for he was not only very straightforward
and honourable, very desirous to learn his

profession, very high principled, but he
was in some respects a good and blameless
youth; he had everything to learn, as
Lanceyy thought. This was a contemptible
state of things ; but on the whole Lanceyy
elected not to teach him.

Don John had something on his mind just
then, he was penitent and disgusted with
himself, he had begun to perceive that in
plotting Marjorie's flight to Edinburgh he
had very much forgotten himself, as well
as what was due to her. He was much
displeased also with his grandmother for
having played into his hands.

He thought this over till there seemed
to be no peace but in confession, and he
told his mother all.

She took his confidence very calmly,
and paused before answering. '' Your father
will be glad of this," she said at last,
'' for, as time went on, your want of perception
in the matter has disappointed him."

Mother ! then grandmother told you?"

0£ course ! — I knew perfectly that Marjorie
did not in the least care for Campbell,
and we agreed with your grandmother
that while she stayed in Edinburgh he
should never be invited to the house."

I'm stumped," was all Don John replied,
and he retired, feeling much relieved,
and a little humiliated. '' The human
mind," he reflected, " is deeper than I
had supposed ! "

And now Lanceyy was fitted out with
proper clothes and personal possessions,
for he had come back shabby
and almost destitute ; and then he was
told that something had been found for
him to do in London, and he was to
board in the family of a clergyman, for
it would not be just towards the other
children that they should live at home.

He understood that he was under
probation — was well aware that his host
and hostess, probably his employer too,
knew perfectly of his propensity. It

pleased him to receive frequent letters from
'' mother," with as frequent presents of
fruit, books, or the various trifles that she
thought he might want or like. And sometimes
"father" would send round on a
Saturday to the office where he was employed,
and propose to take him down with
him to spend Sunday. Lanceyy liked this
very well just at first, but he soon made
many friends for himself, not by any means
all of an undesirable sort ; some were old
school-fellows and their families, some were
people whom he had met with on his travels.
He had shortly a circle of his own, and
seemed to take a certain pleasure in letting
the Johnston see, that as they would not
any longer have him to live with them, he
should make himself independent of them
as soon as possible.

At present his salary was extremely
small, and Mr. Johnston paid for his
board and his clothes ; his pocket-money
was all that he provided for himself.

There was only one thing in this world
that he deeply dreaded. This man who
still watched over him, and had been a
true father to him, would on some rare
occasions take him into his study, and
after certain fatherly admonitions and
counsels would kneel down and pray with
him. Lanceyy regarded this as a very
awful ceremony, so did all the children
of the house. It came so seldom that it
never lost its power. It was far worse, as
Lanceyy felt, than any punishment ; in fact
the recollection of it actually kept him,
and that not seldom, from doing wrong ;
but it was an additional reason for wanting
to get free, to throw off the paternal
yoke altogether.

So things continued for nearly a year,
and all, including himself, appeared to be
going on satisfactorily.

Captain Leslie had not been able yet to
see Estelle's eldest son.

Early in the autumn he took a tour on

the continent, and was detained there by
illness. He was almost always ill, and
could not think how it was. He was prudent,
he never fatigued himself ; he would
like to have spent his strength, and money,
and time for the good of others ; and all he
could do was to care for himselfe

consulted several physicians : " Perhaps
he had better remain in the south of
Europe for the winter," said one, and he
submitted, finding the charge of his own
health, of himself in fact, very dull work.
It was not till the hottest days of the
English summer, the middle of July, that
he found himself in England again, and on
his way to the Johnston's.

He longed to see Estelle, and her son.
He felt that he had almost asked for an
invitation, but not the less that his welcome
was spontaneous and sweet. The
girls had corresponded with him, they were
all charmed to see him. The mother gave
him a shaded comfortable corner in the

drawing-room, and sent for some tea. She
perceived at once that lie was quite an
invalid, and for the first time he fully admitted
it — to himself. And Don John ?

Could anything be so unfortunate ?
Don John was away again. He would be
disappointed, for he had wished to see
Captain Leslie. They did not think he
had been away for nearly a year.

But Lanceyy — "Did he remember that
they had told him about Lanceyy ?" asked
little Mary.

'^ 0, yes."

He is our adopted son," said Estelle ;
'' we brought him up with our own children."


But he lives with his own mother
now," proceeded Mary ; " her name is
Mrs. Ward, and she is come home from
Australia. And Lanceyy has been ill, very
ill; so Don John and Mrs. Ward took
him to Ramsgate for a change. Did you
ever see Mrs. Ward ? "

'No ; I have not the pleasure of her
acquaintance."

She used to be rather rich, and had
the grandest rings, and the thickest chains
and bracelets you ever saw; but this is
very fortunate, for she has married a very
bad man, who treats her so unkindly that
she ran away from him, and now she has
all that jewellery to sell. She told Lanceyy
it was worth four hundred pounds, and she
keeps selling it when she wants money;
and she and Lanceyyyy live together. Lanceyyyy
says he shall go to law with that man soon,
but it will not be any use. Don John
knows all about law, and he says so."

'' But Don John will be back in about a
week," said Mrs. Johnston, " so you will
see him."

Captain Leslie was very well amused,
falling as before into the possession of the
girls, to whom Marjorie was now added.
As before, he made them talk a good deal
about their brother. Freddy, a fine boy of

fifteen, was at home, but he excited no
interest. Don John, his doings, his writings,
and the photographs of his honest
face, were what pleased Leslie. He was a
very joyous young fellow, as was evident —
the leader of the young brood, Marjorie's
confidant in her peaceful happy love affair,
Naomi's comrade, Charlotte's critic, Mary's
patron — looked up to by Freddy as
one much exalted, but whose various doings
were not beyond hope of imitation, and
whose privileges might one day be shared.

He was of age now, and gave himself
occasionally the airs of a man of thirty,
taking it much amiss that his two grownup
sisters were older than himself, and
almost as tall.

However, as he frequently said, their
being so tall was their own look out ; he
was himself quite up to the average height,
in fact, half an inch taller than his father.

Charlotte and Don John, about this
time were frequently seen sitting with their

heads together, in doors or out of doors,
and manifestly concocting somewhat that
amused them; but though Mrs. Johnston
took notice of this fact, she was not careful
to influence either party in any way. The
brother and sister-Hke intimacy, the old
habit of writing " the minutes " together,
kept them always familiar, but neither ever
surprised the other ; they were never absent,
and then, uniting, saw each other in that
new light which is apt to produce a new
feeling.

The fact was that about this time Mr.
Brown began to cultivate Don John's
friendship with a certain assiduity. The
young gentleman was not taken in. " It
won't do," he would think ; " Charlotte
does not care about your prospects a
bit; why must you need confide them
to me?" But in their next conversation
Mr. Brown with much diffidence let Don
John know that he thought he might
have mistaken his own feelings as regarded

Miss Charlotte, and lie felt sure lie did not
look on him with any favour. Don John
assented with needless decision, and added,
of his own proper wisdom, that he was sure
Charlotte was not a girl who was ever
likely to marry anybody.

But there was always something curiously
deferential in Mr. Brown's manner when
he called upon the ladies of the family.
Don John was sagacious ; he felt that his
society was not sought for his own sake.
He had been told that it was not for Charlotte's.
He consulted Charlotte. Charlotte
said it must be Naomi. Manifestly she
did not care about his turning away
from her so soon. But Naomi would
care.

And yet Mr. Brown was decidedly a good
fellow. He was rather a fine young man.
Would it be a good thing to let him have a
chance ?

Of course, if Naomi knew anything of
this beforehand he would not have a chance.

They were some time reflecting on the
matter, and Naomi often thought they
had more conferences than usual ; a dawning
suspicion occasionally induced her to
surprise them. They may have been adroit,
or she mistaken, it was almost always
'Hie minutes" they were discussing, forby
this name all Charlotte's contributions
to literature were still called.

Evidently it must have been the minutes,
for if there was any conspiracy nothing
came of it.

Mr. Brown frequently called ; Charlotte
often went out of the room on these occasions,
and Naomi had to entertain him ;
but when Charlotte came back again it
never appeared that Naomi had been well
entertained.

And in the mean time Lanceyy was frequently
in the house. He delighted to
make Charlotte feel shy, and yet he saw
that she resented his half-careless compliments.
He would often try to squeeze her

VOL. III.

hand, for he liked to see the pale carnation
tint rise on her clear cheek ; and when she
was distant to him, or when displeased, he
would laugh and enjoy it. He did not truly
care for her, but he would have been very
well pleased to make her care for him, and
he flattered himself that she did.

Leslie, true to his interest in Estelle's
eldest son, was pleased to learn all he could
of Charlotte and her writings.

It was the afternoon of the day when
Don John was expected home ; seated
where he could see the path by which he
would arrive, Leslie easily beguiled her
into conversation. She and Naomi were
doing " art needlework," and Leslie was so
fixed in his opinion that Charlotte and Don
John were all in all to one another, that it
surprised him when she sat down with her
back to this path. All had hitherto favoured
his idea, and the talk as usual came round
to Don John. That afternoon, for the first
time, Naomi noticed it, — started a subject

which lead nothing to do with, her brother,
and then fell silent to observe what would
happen ; but her attention wandered. She
knew not how this was, but when it returned
there was Don John's name again.

Then why does he think that story was
rejected?" Leslie was asking.

Oh, because I had tried to bring in
some of the old-fashioned courtesies. It
is such a pity that we are obliged to do
without ' madam ' and 'sir.' Don't you
think so ? "

"I think I have not thought. So it is;
we must make the best of it. "

Such expressions as ' my lady ' and
your lordship ' must always have been a
hideous incubus on a polite tongue ; but
English has not been so pretty since we
left off ' madam,' nor so terse since we
parted with ' sir.' I do allow myself in
conversation to use those words now and
then, for the mere pleasure of hearing them,
but it does no good."


How do you mean, no good ? "

Oh, it does not help to bring them in
again."

No," said Naomi ; '' when you do it in
society it only makes people think you
know no better."

I fancy, madam, that their day is gone
by," said Leslie, smiling.

Charlotte sighed, as if she really cared
about the matter. " We are growing so
rude."

And so Don John counsels you to do
without ' madam ' and ' sir ' ? "

Yes, and without my theories."

What theory, for instance ? "

Oh, in that paper I brought in my
notion that birds have an articulate language."


Articulate ? "

"Yes, some birds; he has shown me
that no creatures differ so much from one
another, in point of intelligence, as birds ;
but I am sure some have a real language,

bank swallows, for instance. When yon
hear them chattering together at the
opening of their holes, does it never occur
to yon that if yon heard any language
yon do not understand, such as Malay-chinese
or Hottentot, it would not sound
more articulate than swallow-talk does,
particularly if it was uttered as hastily and
in as low a tone ? "

Leslie smiled, as if he would put the
question by.

She went on, " Of course their verbs
must be very, very simple."

'' What ! you believe that they have
verbs?"

Certainly, for they possess the idea of
time ; they must be able to say, ' We lore
there,' and ' We are here' And as they
are perfectly aware that they shall go back
again, and as they do it in concert, I think
they must be able to say, ' Let us dearer'


*' They may have signs which stand for

such ideas," said Leslie doubtfully, "as we
have."

Yes."

And we call them verbs."

Irresistible reasoning ! and yet I resist
it altogether."

But how will you resist it ? What
theory will you set up instead ? "

Leslie considered : " The verbs I cannot
admit," he said doubtfully; "I could
rather think your sand-martins have a
monosyllabic language, like Chinese."

Yes ; but I don't think that idea will
help you, because the latest books about
Chinese show, and I think prove, that
originally that language had parts of
speech, verbs, and inflections ; but it has
gone to decay, partly from isolation, partly
from the idleness of those who spoke it —
from their letting their phonetic organs
pass out of use. Chinese is not simple
and young. It is as it were in its second
childhood, going to pieces from old age."

Indeed."

And you must have noticed that it is
the tendency of language to have, as time
goes on, a richer vocabulary and a simpler
grammar."

You are going to found some theory
on that, as regards your swallows?"

'' No ; but I think it likely that theirs
being only a rudimentary language, what
fails them most is their store of nouns —
not of verbs."

Charlotte," said Naomi, "Captain Leslie
cannot help laughing at you."

Perhaps you picked up these theories
from constant companionship with Don
John ? " said Leslie with an air of apology.

''0 no ; Don John is always criticizing
my theories ; but for him I should indulge
in many more."

I must admit that in this one I think
you claim far too much for the martins."


"Do you think then that all their chatter

conveys no knowledge from one to the
other — no intention, no wish ? ' '

"Why should it more than the lark's
song ? He pleases his mate, but he tells
her nothing."

"No, any more than we do when we
sing without words; but sand-martins
cannot siug.^-r-they talk. Some birds, for
aught we know, can only sing. But our
sense of hearing is very dull. It may be
that besides singing the thrushes can say
many things, and yet their speech may be
too low and too small to be audible to us.
Sand-martins are the only birds I know
who talk manifestly and audibly."

Ah, here is Don John," said Naomi,
and she laid down her work, and went out
at the open window to meet him.

Leslie lifted his eyes, and looking out
into the garden saw a young man slowly
advancing along the grass. Could this be"
Don John? Mary came running up to
him ; he stooped slightly, and she kissed

his cheek. He looked languid, and tired ;
and while Mary chattered and danced
about him, seeming to tell him some interesting
piece of news, he gazed fixedly
on a bed of pecunia, and with his hands
in his pockets stood motionless, as if lost
in thought. Naomi came near, and the
two girls advanced towards the house, one
on either side of him.

Captain Leslie is here," Naomi said,
as they came up. Leslie heard this, and
the answer —

"Oh!" That was all.

Rather a gentlemanly-looking young
fellow, Captain Leslie thought. The extreme
gravity and seriousness of his manner
made his smile appear sweet; but it
was soon gone again, and after the first
greeting, he sank into thought.

And so this was Estelle's son ! Of how
much consequence he had been to Leslie !
Leslie was of no consequence at all to him.

CHAPTER 11.

Among the minor surprises of Ms life,
none had ever struck Leslie so much as
the behaviour and air of young Donald
Johnston.

He had gathered a good deal of information
as to his voice, his manners, his
laugh: he appeared, and scattered it all;
the picture was not like, in any respect.
There was something almost pathetic in
the gentleness, the serious and silent abstraction
in which he sat, and, remote in
thought from everything about him, cogitated
with folded arms.

His light eyelashes concealed in part
rather expressive blue eyes ; he was pale
with that almost chalky hue of a fair skin

not naturally pale. He only spoke when
spoken to — and Leslie did not speak. The
girls, evidently surprised, asked if Lanceyy
was worse.

No, it appeared that Lanceyy was almost
well again.

Nothing is the matter then ? "

The matter 1 with whom ? "

Why, with you. Did you come up by
the boat, Don John ? "

*' Yes."

'' Ah, then you were sea-sick ! You always
are ! It is such a mistake to think
that, to be often on the sea at intervals,
just for a few hours will cure you."

Oh, what a sigh for answer !

I wish you wouldn't do it, dear," said
Naomi, leaning over the end of the sofa
on which he sat, and touching his light
hair lovingly ; "it has made you look so
pale."

I've got a headache," was his reply ;
and then, all in a moment, there was a

step heard, and the tall graceful mother
came in the door. Don John roused himself,
he almost seemed to shake himself,
and rose up and met her, and kissed her,
and seemed quite cheerful.

Mj dear ! " she exclaimed, " how
pale you are ! "

'* Yes, mother ! " cried Naomi ; " and
he's been on that steamer again."

A fellow looks such a muff," said Don
John, '' if he is sea-sick. I wish to cure
myself."

Leslie looked up, and met Don John's
eyes; he knew as well as possible that
there was something more than sea-sickness
the matter.

When he got up from the sofa," exclaimed
Mary, " he staggered ; he is quite
giddy."

There ! " said Don John, impatiently;
'' no more ! It's more muffins to talk of
it than to have it."

Yes," said the placid mother, soothingly

; " I'll ring for some strong tea, and
when you have had it you will be quite
well."

Shall I ? " he answered; and then he
seemed to make a supreme effort again,
and this time with better result.

It appeared to be almost by his own will
and resolution that he cast over the matter
that had held him down, and that the
natural hues of life came back to his face.
The tea came in, perhaps it helped him ;
he ate and drank, and seemed to feel a
certain comfort in his mother's observance,
so that when in the course of time
Donald Johnston himself entered, all
that was remarkable in the young Donald's
appearance and manner had passed away.
He was still pale, that was all. Could it
be, Leslie thought, that all this pathetic air
and abstracted expression had come from a
mere fit of sea-sickness ? He almost despised
young Donald when the thought suggested
itself. But the night undeceived him.

There is something so pathetic in the
anguish of the young.

Leslie had a feeling heart, and when,
lying awake in the dead of the night,
when the healthy and the strong should
have been asleep, he heard a sound of
sobbing in the next room to his, he could
have wept too.

This was his heir — bemoaning himself
in the night on his pillow, when he did not
know that any one could hear. But the
heads of the two beds were close together,
one on either side of the wall.

What could it be ? He was not yet
twenty-two years old ; could he be breaking
his heart already for some woman's
love ? Or had he committed some grave
faults, and was he craving forgiveness of
his Maker? or was he sick — was he in pain?

The sobbing went on so long that
Leslie almost thought he must rise and
enter the young fellow's room. But no,
he controlled himself; he feared to do

more harm than good ; and at last, but not
till day had dawned, there was a welcome
silence. Don John was asleep; and Leslie,
who had offered up many a prayer for
him, fell asleep too.

Leslie did not hear that midnight mourning
only once ; but for several nights there
were no articulate sounds with it. Don
John, though in the morning he appeared
grave and dull, and though he looked pale,
went every morning to London with his
father, and had the air of striving to behave
as usual, so that Leslie felt that to speak
to him or to his parents would be to make
matters worse — it would be a breach of confidence.
But once before dawn, waking at
a now well-known sound, he heard words as
well as sighs : " Oh, father ! Oh, mother 1 "
He started up ; these were about the last
words he should have expected to hear ; he
could not risk being obliged to hear more.

The heir, for whom he had already begun to
feel some affection, must surely be mourning

over some fault which lie knew would distress
his parents when they found it out.
"Was it not possible that he could help him ?
fle rose, and lighting a candle, began to
move about in the room without making
any attempt at special quietness.

There was absolute silence. In a minute
or two a tall figure in a quilted dressing
gown appeared at Don John's door, shut
it behind him, and came in.

He set down his candle, drew a chair, and
seated himself.

I must have disturbed you," said Don
John, deeply vexed and disgusted with
himself, and perhaps with Captain Leslie
too.

Leslie answered " Yes ;" and when Don
John made no answer, he presently went
on : " And if I feel a very deep and keen
sympathy with your sorrow, whatever it
may be, there are reasons for that, dear
fellow, which probably you never knew."

Surprise had for the moment mastered

emotion. Don John raised himself on his
elbow, heaved up another great sobbing
sigh, and stared at him.

'' Are you aware that I have loved your
mother all my life," he went on, while Don
John was considering that it was no use to
say anything, he must let him alone — " all
my youth — and I never had the least chance
with her ? A hopeless attachment, and to
such a woman, is very hard discipline for a
man. I say it that you may feel sure of
my sympathy; but I have had faults to
deplore as well. Sin has full often been
standing at the door. If that is your case,
feel sure of my deep sympathy there also.
And now tell me — you, the much-loved son
of my first and only love — if there is anything
in the world that I can do for you
do you think I should be thankful to doit?"


Yes," said Don John, quite simply, " I
think you would; " and he laid himself down
again, and made no attempt to say more.

VOL. 111. D

Yon have got into some scrape ; yon
have, perhaps, done something that yon
deeply regret, and — "

No," interrupted Don John, " I
haven't."

A little thrown back by this, Leslie
passed, and after a short silence the youth
went on — " But I feel that what yon have
said is extremely kind : and perhaps now I
may be able to sleep. I have not slept well
the last few nights." A hint surely to
Leslie to go — but he stayed.

"Are you so sure then that there is
nothing at all I can do — with my advice,
my assistance, my property ? "

"I am sure."

There remain only my prayers."

And they cannot help me to anything
but patience."

My dear fellow— "

"But I am as glad you came in as
I am sorry for having disturbed you, because
I am sure you will promise me not

to mention this to any one — any one at
all."

Not even to your parents."

That was what I meant."

'' But if I promise you this, you will owe
a certain duty to me in return."

"What duty?"

'' If a time should ever come when 1 can
help you, I shall have a right to expect that
you will claim my help, to any extent and
in any way."

"Thank you."

And I must not ask what this sorrow
is?"

I cannot tell you."

Leslie thought of Charlotte. She had
treated him with composed indifference,
but he had appeared to the full as indifferent
to her. He could but speak carefully.


I hardly like to give this matter up,"
he said. " When I first loved your mother
I was scarcely older than you are now.
D 2

DON JOHN.

If there had been no other bar to my
hopes, it would have been enough that I was
poor. Now, if you feel any likeness in
my case to yours, and if the young lady's
father — 1 mean, if two or three thousand
pounds — "

"In love with a girl ! " exclaimed Don
John with a short laugh, whose bitterness
and scorn it would be impossible to describe,
for he was contrasting an imaginary
sorrow with a real one. " Fall in love with
a girl,, and cry about her in the night ! I am
not such a muff."

"What!" exclaimed Leslie, rather
shocked.

I am not come to that yet," continued
Don John with unutterable self-contempt ;
but perhaps I shall " — and the suddenly
arrested storm asserted itself with another
great heaving of the chest. Then he
begged Leslie's pardon, for he saw that
he was hurt. " That's not my line," he
said. " But what you say, or seem to say.

perfectly astonishes me. You are very
good ; I have no claim on you in the world
and — I am sorry I disturbed you."

I think you mean that you are sorry
I have become aware of this."

Don John made no answer ; Leslie turned
towards his candle ; the grey light was
beginning to wax, and it was burning dim.

I must go, then," and he held out his
hand. But the next day, when his heir
came down, he deeply regretted that he
had promised silence. Don John was notable
to go to town; he had low fever
hanging about him, and his already wasted
hands looked whiter than before.

The day after that a medical man was
sent for. Don John could get up, but he
complained of his head ; and in another
day it became manifest that both his father
and mother were alarmed about him.

Leslie's visit had nearly come to an end
he felt that he must go ; but it was
bitter to him. He honored to talk to his

heir, and offer him the best consolation
that he could ; and Don John was aware
of this.

In his shrewd bnt somewhat youthful
fashion, he perceived the real affection that
Leslie felt for him. He thought it would
be very unfair if he did not have his innings
before he went. Expressing himself
in these words to Leslie, on an occasion
when he was feeling slightly better, and
not being understood, he explained — '' I
meant that I thought you would like to
pray with me ; father does sometimes. I
should not mind it at all — in fact, I think,
I should like it."

'' Out of kindness to me, dear fellow ? "
asked Leslie ; but of course he took the
opportunity offered. There could hardly
have been anything appropriate to the
peculiar circumstances of the patient in
that prayer, and yet he derived from it his
first conscious desire to submit — his first
perception that if he could submit he could

get well. He knew that he had rebelled
hitherto, and thus when the thinking-fit
over this misfortune came on, rebellion
was at the root of its keenest sting.

He had merely meant to be kind, and he
had his reward.

He was very ill, and both father and
mother lavished observant tenderness on
him. Sometimes he could get up, comedown
stairs, and talk almost as usual.
Then all on a sudden something which had
been held at bay appeared to get hold on
him, and low fever devoured his strength.

One day he could hardly hft his head
from his pillow, but he was yet not quite
in such evil case as before, for there was
that in the manner of both parents which
made Leslie sure that they knew now what
had prostrated him.

It was very hot weather, his door was
set wide open, and the family came in and
out, not aware, and not informed, that there
was any anxiety felt about him. ,

And there was little in the placid mother's
manner to show that she felt any. She
was generally with him. It was not so
much tendance as consolation that she
seemed to be giving him ; not in words.
And his father, too, he spoke bravely and
cheerfully; yet the patient lost strength
and flesh daily.

As one whom his mother comfort eth,"
thought Leslie, when he saw his life-long
love watching by his heir.

Who could fail to be consoled? Yet
Don John did not appear to derive direct
comfort from their manner, only from their
presence; he could not bear to be left
without either one or the other of his
parents.

And yet it was he himself who had
first consoled; and he went away, and
endured a very anxious fortnight, till the
girls, who had promised to write frequently,
could at last say that Don John
was better.

With what gratitude lie heard this.
He was going up shortly to Scotland, and
could not help proposing to stop on his
way, and pay a call of one hour on the
Johns tones.

There was the beautiful Estelle, and
there were her tall daughters, and her
invalid ; he was lying on the sofa, undergoing
a course of indulgence and waiting
on, from all parties. His hands were thin,
and as white as a girl's, his cheeks were
thin, and his eyes were sunken; but the
struggle was over between youth and
death, and youth had won.

And yet it was not the same Don John.
Leslie was just as sure of this as the
others were.

His mother put down the book she
had been reading to him, and looked at
him with anxious love. " He must go
out soon for a change," she said, " and
then I hope he will be well."

"T don't want to go away, mother,"

said the young invalid ; " but if I must
go anywhere, perhaps Captain Leslie would
have me."

The beautiful mother actually blushed ;
the way in which all her children took to
Captain Leslie was almost embarrassing
to her. She could not see any charm in
him herself; but that was an old story.

Leslie was highly flattered.

She was about to say, " I really must
apologize for my boy;" but when she saw
Leslie's pleasure she had not the heart todo
it. He looked as if he would have
liked to hug Don John.

Captain Leslie ought to have me too,"
said Mary ; " I've done fourteen errands
for him this very day, finding books for
him, and fetching his eau-de-cologne, and
handing him his beef-tea, and all sorts of
things."

Mrs. Johnston did not speak, but she
looked quietly at Leslie. The look was
not an apology to him for not having given

him her love, but it expressed an affection
she had never shown him before, and she
said, '' If you can have Don John " (" And
me too," interrupted Mary), "my husband
and I could trust you with him with more
comfort than I can say,"

And me too," insisted Mary.

Don John, and you too," answered
Leslie. His mahogany-coloured face could
not change its hue, but short of that it
expressed all the pleasure possible.

Invited themselves, did they ? " exclaimed
Donald Johnston, when he was
told of this by his wife. " My children
invited themselves into this man's house,
who has of all men least reason to like
their father ! How did he stand it ? and
how did you get him out of the scrape,
my Star?"

He was delighted ; so I let them
alone."

Let them alone ! But it will be a
great inconvenience to him ; very likely he

will have to get in more furniture and
other servants. I. believe lie has a mere
shooting-box."

Yes, I felt all that, and was very much
out of countenance."

And doubtless he perceived it. I don't
see how you could have done less than
blush, my dear. You are actually repeating
the performance, and very becoming
it is."

'perhaps he wishes that old attachment
to be forgotten — perhaps he feels
only friendship, now that he has seen me
again."

"Perhaps!"

Well, we must make the best of this
now. They proposed the visit with the
greatest composure, and he accepted with
acclamation."

So in a couple of weeks Don John and

Mary were in Scotland, in a moderately

-convenient house, wedged into one corner

of a triangular valley. Its one carriage road

led down beside a prattling stream to the
sea. Mary was intensely happy, and Don
John was convalescent. The sensation of
returning health and strength is in itself
delightful, and the refreshment of clear
skies, long sunsets, scented air, and mountain
solitude, all helped to console • and
calm.

Don John gained strength daily, but
Leslie did not observe any return of the
joyous spirits for which he had hitherto
been conspicuous in his little world. He
never ventured to ask what the sorrow
was, but he perceived that its cause was
not removed ; and sometimes there would
come over the pleasant but somewhat
commonplace countenance an expression
which removed it into another world of
feeling and experience. An ardent yearning
would come over it, the outcome it
seemed of some impassioned regret, which
made it look more noble, if less young.

CHAPTER III.

Father is ill," cried Mary, running down
one afternoon to the shore of the long loch
beside which Don John was sitting, watching
the little wild ducks as they crept into
the shelter of the reeds; "not very ill, but
rather ill. Captain Leslie has got a letter
from mamma. He is better, and we are
not to be at all disturbed, and not to think
of coming home."

Father ill ! Such a thing had never
taken place for one day in the memory of
the oldest of his children.

Leslie followed closely on Mary's message.
Don John read the letter, and
neither he nor his sister were so uneasy as
might have been expected.

He looked at them. " They have this
composure from their parents," he thought.
It was one of Estelle's great charms that
she never was in the least nervous, never
apprehensive."

The nearest telegraph station was fifteen
miles off, and did not open till eight
o'clock in the morning. Leslie had waited
behind to make arrangements for having a
servant there, to send a message off at the
earliest moment for the latest news.

The sick man's children slept in peace.
As soon as possible the next morning, an
answer came from Naomi to Don John.
*' Father is not worse. You need not be
uneasy; but mother wishes you both to
come home."

Don John had been prepared for this,
for his packing was found to be ready.
All little Mary's effects by his decree were
to be left behind, excepting what could be
put into a hand-bag. Thus they were all
ready as soon as the horses could be put to.

'' But why are you in such a hurry?"
asked Mary. " Mother says we are not to
be uneasy."

Leslie Hastened for the answer.

And therefore I am not uneasy about
father's illness; but he is sure to want me,
and I want to go and help."

'' I am glad to see that you have your
mother's delightful temperament. Why
indeed should you be uneasy? why anticipate
disaster ? " said Leslie.

Don John's eyes dilated with a startled
and gratified expression. "My mother's
temperament," he began, almost vehemently,
and then checked himself.

Yes, you often remind me of her, both
of you."

Though Leslie was driving, and the
horses were rather fresh, he could not help
noticing that he had produced a great
effect by this speech, and that it was a
pleasurable one. That his own feelings
should be of the most romantic cast towards

Estelle, seemed to him the most
natural thing in the world ; but that her
son should share any such feeling was, he
well knew, a very uncommon circumstance.
But then she was not an ordinary mother ;
so he presently told himself. "Why then
should hers be an ordinary son ?

Don John lost himself in cogitation.
This remark of Leslie's appeared to be
such a spontaneous testimony to his sonship.
Very slight, but the more sweet.

Undoubtedly his handwriting was extremely
like his father's, but he had tormented
himself with the thought that this
might be because he liked it, had admired
and copied it, as remarkably firm, clear,
and round. It expressed the qualities he
wished to have.

And then his manner, and the carriage
of his head : he walked just as his father
did. The remembrance of this consoled
him just at first, but his sick fancy
turned that into poison also : " I constantly

VOL Til. E

walk with father," lie thought ; " and when
I was a little fellow I liked to go as if I
was marching, because he did."

Leslie parted from Don John and his
sister with much affection. Neither the
son nor the daughter anticipated evil ; but
Don John sent a telegram on to mention
at what time he hoped to reach King's
Cross, and requesting that one might
meet him there with the latest news.

He found all as he had expected.

His father had been ill, but was better
still in bed, and not allowed to get up.

And you are not to ask him how. his
illness began," said the mother.

But how did it begin, then ? "

'' That is what we do not know, my
dear. We thought he had had a fall.
Display came home quietly, and your
father not riding him."

'' But that fat, old, peaceable creature
could not have thrown him. Impossible,
mother."

'' So I think. Mr. Viser found him
sitting up leaning against the gate of the
long field, and brought him home just
after Display came into the stable-yard.
He was a little cut about the face, seemed
ill, and that first day gave no account of the
matter. We were told he was not to be
questioned at all, or teazed about it. The
next day he roused himself, and said, when
he saw Dr. Fielding, ' Now am I better ? '
Better than I could possibly have
hoped,' Dr. Fielding answered, ' wonderfully
better ; ' and then, to my distress,
your dear father went on : ' I cannot
think how this came to pass.' But we are
assured that there is no danger. That
evening he said he remembered dismounting
and opening the gate; he remembered
seeing Display walk through
it, lout nothing more.' If he fainted and
fell, he must have hurt his head and cut
his face in the fall." Then she put her
two hands on Don John's shoulders as he
E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

stood gravely listening, and said, " My
much loved son, what a comfort it will be
that you will be with him, able to help
him, and knowing all about his affairs.
It consoles me to see you looking well
again."

The new expression came into Don
John's face then ; and after that again,
when sitting by his father he found that
he could calm and satisfy him, and that
his mere presence was doing good.

He went up to London the next day
a-bout such of his father's affairs as he
'Could attend to, and walked home from
the station through the long field. Several
people out of " the houses " waylaid him to
ask after his father ; perhaps that was the
reason why he did not notice, till he
almost reached the shrubbery gate, that
Charlotte was standing there waiting for
him.

Charlotte. He perfectly knew Charlotte's
face, and yet it was true that he

liacl never looked at her with any particular
attention before. It was a light green
gate that she was leaning on, just of the
proper height to support her elbows. She
was dressed in white, and had no colour
about her dress at all; on her head was
rather a wide white hat, limp, and only
suited for a garden. Her whole dress, in
short, was dazzling white and clean.
Her small face seen under the hat was in
shade ; a pure pale carnation suffused her
cheeks, and the lips were of the hue of
dark damask roses. The same Charlotte !
and yet the beautiful Irish eyes seemed
almost new to him.

Don John stopped.

I thought I would come to meet you,"
said Charlotte, not moving from her place
on the other side of the gate. " My uncle
is so much better ; he is up, and sitting in
the play-room."

This was certainly Charlotte, and yet he
looked at her with wonder.

Well ? " she asked with a little smile,
and added, " I knew you were uneasy, you
always look so grave ; so I thought I
would come and tell you that Dr. Fielding
says he is more than satisfied."

It was kind of you, it was good of
you," said Don John. "What a beautiful
gown you have on, Charlotte ! "

This old thing," said Charlotte, lifting
her arms, and letting him open the gate ;
"why, I have had it for a year ! "
"Oh," answered Don John; and how
long he would have stood gazing at her it
is impossible to say, if she had not turned
and moved on, saying, as she preceded him
in the narrow path, " No doubt you will
want to see my uncle first ; but after that
I want to consult you about something."

Charlotte and Don John generally were
consulting together about something or
other ; he was always expected to criticize
her essays and tales, and did not regard
this as by any means a privilege, but as he

often thought, " lie is not likely to marry,
and therefore lie ought to have something
else to give a meaning to her life."
On this occasion he did think of the
coming consultation as a privilege, and
ardently hoped that Naomi would not be
present. His past thoughts were full of
images of Charlotte, and for a moment he
was not aware that he was looking at
them with different eyes.

His father was so much better, that but
for the cuts about his face it would have
been difficult to be uneasy about him.
These, however, reminded them how sudden
the seizure had been, and made them
long to know whether it was ever likely to
recur. Don John had tried to discuss this
in the morning ; but when he found that
he was put off with remarks about symptoms
that he knew could be of no consequence,
he said no more, but he looked so
much alarmed that the friendly doctor said,
I have told ypu that there is no danger

for the present. But if I allowed you to
get anything out of me, your father would
very soon get it out of you, and that would
be bad for him. When he asks questions,
you know nothing."

Excepting that there is something to
know," thought Don John.

Margery was away, staying with her
grandmother, as was often the case now.
Dr. Fielding went on : ''I would not let
your sister be sent for, but I wanted you ;
your presence will be of the greatest use,
and may be of the utmost consequence."

Don John took easily to responsibility,
guessed that his father was not to be left
alone, and found a great solace in the consideration
that he had so arranged his life as
to have his son almost always at his side.

The dinner that evening was a very
pleasant meal. The head of the family
was so manifestly better that no one could
be uneasy about him. A nurse was in the
house, and she sat with him.

M.

Little Mary was allowed to dine late, and
was full of talk about Scotland. Don John
was in better spirits than he had been since
before his illness, and sitting in his father's
place surveyed the family.

His mother looked tired, but peaceful and
thankful. Mary and Naomi had on white
muslin and blue ribbons — pink does not
look well with reddish hair; but Charlotte
had on pink ribbons. How much
prettier pink is than blue ! Her almost
black hair, not glossy — how soft and thick
it looked ! A twisted rope of pearls was
embedded in it. Her mother had just sentit
to her, and at the same time some silver
ornaments to Naomi. Don John did not
know that, but he could not help looking
at Charlotte, and she and Naomi kept
glancing at one another.

'' Don't they look sweet, both of them ?'*
exclaimed the admiring little sister; and
then Don John was told that the girls had
put on their best to do honour to these

ornaments J which had just arrived ; and
before he had reflected that he should have
included Naomi in his remark, he had burst
forth with "Well, I thought I had never
seen Charlotte look like that before — look
so well, I mean."

It was the end of September, remarkably
hot for the time of year, and though they
were dining by candle light, all the windows
were open.

Girls always look better when they
have their best things on," said Mary.
Don John glanced at both the girls ; l^aomi
looked just as usual, Charlotte's appearance
was really indescribable.

You never say anything civil, excepting
to mother," said l^aomi to her brother.
Now there was an opening for you to have
said that we look well in everything."

Only he doesn't think so," observed
Charlotte.

No; he often says, What a guy you look
when you have a crumpled frock on I and,

How liorricl it is of you to ink your fingers ! " .
observed Mary.

Yes," said Cliarlotte, with sweet indifference
; " but I'm not half so untidy as
I used to be."

Don John would like to have made fervent
apologies for this past rudeness ; be
would like to have put Naomi's bint into
impassioned language, but be bad just
sense enough to bold bis tongue ; and be
thought bis mother's encomium very inadequate
when sbe said, " Yes, I am pleased
to see a great improvement in you, my
dear ; you almost always look nice and neat
now."

Charlotte's cheeks blushed and bloomed ;
a deep dimple came. Her smile was naturally
slight, but it always lifted the upper
lip in a strangely beautiful way, and then
the teeth showed. One never saw them
but then.

Nice and neat ! Go out at dawn and
apply those words to a dewy half-opened

damask rose. Charlotte for her part found
this praise very much to her mind, and both
the girls continued to remark on one
another's ornaments in a way that enabled
Don John, with wholly new shyness, to
glance at them. He tried to make his
glances impartial, but the silver chain was
only an ornament round his sister's neck.
The pearls twisted in Charlotte's hair appeared
to be almost a part of herself, he
felt that if he might touch them they were
close enough to her to be warm.

When he opened the door for them all
to go out, that vision of beauty was last,
and she whispered to him. " In the orchard,
Don John ; you won't forget ? "

No, he was sure he should not forget.

He argued with himself for some
minutes as to the length of time he was
accustomed to sit at table.

He reminded himself that when the
evenings were light he generally rose when
his mother did, and strode straight into

the garden. It was rather dark now, but
hot, and the air was still. He could hear
the girls' voices, they were all out of doors.
He could not wait any longer; he ran
upstairs to wish his father good night, and
then came down to give a cheerful message
to his mother, who was alone in the
drawing-room. After that he too stepped
forth into the dark. Naomi and Mary
were together; Charlotte was walking on
just before them, and held a lighted candle,
which she was protecting with her hand.
There was no stir in the air to make it
flicker. Naomi was very fond of Charlotte;
when Don John teazed her, she
always took her part.

"Another 'thing ' of Charlotte's has been
declined," said Naomi — and added in a
persuasive tone, " you've never written
one word about the minutes since you
went away; and I think Charlotte would
like to discuss some letters she has got;
you'll ask her to read them to you ? "

"Yes," answered Don Jolin ; "what
letters are they ? "

Oh, from some of her editors, no
doubt ; no one else writes to her. I have
advised and criticized as well as I could
while you were away, and now you must ;
but we needn't all be there, need we ? "

No," said Don John with an air of
impartial fairness. It was a piece of
hypocrisy, which for the moment he really
could not help. So l^aomi, as he stood
stUl, gave him the gentlest little push
towards Charlotte, who had now got on a
good way before them, and with her arm
over her little sister's shoulder, turned her
down another path, saying, "Well now,
Mary, tell me some more about the
gillies."

Don John, like a moth, went after the
candle.

He got into a long walk, sheltered on
one side by the shrubbery, and at the end
of it, in a small arbour where was a little

rustic table, sat Charlotte, lier candle
burning before lier. She seemed to be
poring over some letters, but as Don
John drew near she folded and put them
into her pocket, and sat perfectly lost in
thought, till, standing in the door of the
arbour, he spoke to her.

Then, to his great astonishment, she put
her hand in her pocket again, drew out,
not the letters, but her handkerchief, and
leaning her elbows on the table, covered
her face and began to cry.

Why, Charlotte," exclaimed Don John,
'' what can be the matter, dear ? "

When Charlotte got into a worse scrape
than usual, he generally said ' dear ' to her,
so did she to him on grave occasions
she had often done so when he was
ill; what a valuable habit this seemed
now.

I told you I wanted to consult you,"
said Charlotte trying to recover herself
-her lovely colour had fled, her hands

trembled a little, and her long eyelashes
were wet — "but I dont know low to
begin," she sighed, almost piteously.

I'll begin then," said Don John. " If
that editor has declined your last thing,
he is a humbug; it is the best you ever
wrote."

But he hasn't," said Charlotte.

Oh, it's not that ! "

No, but it's everything else — it's all,
excepting that."

"It's not the curate," exclaimed Don
John with sudden alarm. " Surely he has
not turned round again to you ? "

Oh, no — of course not ; then the colour
came back to Charlotte's face. Don John
sat down on the other chair, and Charlotte
said, " If you were in my place — I mean
if, instead of being the son of the house,
you were (as I am) only here because my
uncle and aunt are the kindest people in
the world, you would understand — "

She fell silent here — he had become

rather pale. " I should understand ? " he
repeated.

That I cannot bear, having never had
the least chance of even showing that I am
aware of their goodness — I cannot bear
to put away from me a possible means of
returning it, even at the risk of perhaps
making myself unhappy." Then she leaned
her elbow on the table again, and said with
pathetic simplicity, —

'' I could easily make myself love him, if

I chose."

Don John made a movement of surprise

and alarm, but she was thinking of far
more important matters than his feelings,
and went on, " But he is not good — I
know he is not good — and I don't believe
he really cares for me."

'' Then, for heaven's sake, Charlotte —
for all our sakes — don't ' make yourself
love him.' Why, what does the fellow mean,
that he should dare to ask it ? Whom can
you be talking of ? who has presumed — '*

VOL. III. F

Lie was thinking too intently to notice
his agitation. " You always said, you
know," lie presently went on, '' that I
should not have lovers — and it's quite
true ; but there might be some one whose
interest it is to marry me, particularly
now. When Christmas comes this year
I shall have a hundred pounds from those
two editors. I am ashamed to think
meanly of him, but I know — I am almost
sure, he does not love me."

Then he is even more a fool than a
knave!" Don John burst out; 'rand you
will not be so cruel to us all; you will
not so make us sure that your welcome
has not been warm enough here — "

Gently, gently ! " interrupted Charlotte
; " but I do like to hear you burst
forth in this way beforehand. When I
tell you his name do not forget what you
have said, for you are the only person
whose opinion I have truly feared in this
matter — you love him so."

Don John almost groaned; he thought
he knew then what she meant. " Who is
it ? " he inquired.

And she whispered, " Lanceyy ! "

CHAPTER IV.

Don John looked forth to right and to left,
as if casting about in the dark garden and
shaded sky for somewhat to comfort or to
counsel him.

Some of the stars were out. It never
comforts any human soul to contemplate
them; they are so changeless. And there
was a crescent-moon, sharp as a sickle, and
too young to give any light. The old
moon had waned while he was in Scotland ;
sometimes he had found in this familiar
show a new significance. So, his happiness
had waned away — his careless joy !
He was a man now, and must abide what
manhood and sorrow might bring him.

And the new moon ! almost as young

as this fast waxing love. Oli, what should
he do ! They would both grow.

His eyes had only just been opened to see
what Charlotte was, and what she might
be to him, and now she was to tell him of
a lover who, of all young men in the world,
he would fain not try to supplant.

For it is not impossible'' he thought,
with a sharp pang, " that I may already,
without my own will or knowledge, have
ousted him out of everything in the world
that is worth having. Not impossible,
though, as my father and mother both
declare, the chances are a thousand to one
against it. All that is to me worth having,"
he continued, in mental correction of his
first thought. "But though I should
never call her mine, it is not fit that poor
Lanceyy should get her."

That would indeed be sacrificing yourself,"
he said, in a low voice.

You think so," answered Charlotte, ina
tone of relief .

*' Because, as you have said, lie is not
good,"

I know lie is not good," lie answered,
*' but he said if I would take him it would
make him good. He said lie was no
worse than other young men, excepting in
that one matter, which he declares he most
sincerely repents."

What one matter, Charlotte ? "
Oh, the affair of— the ring."
He did not, of course, lead you to
think that he had never erred in that way
but once ? "

Charlotte looked up at Don John, as he
stood leaning in the doorway, with an air
of such amazement that he could not meet
her eyes. He turned away. Charlotte
should not be sacrificed in ignorance of
this, he was determined ; but he knew his
heart would accuse him of baseness forever
if he tried to set her against Lanceyy
for any other cause. And then he struggled
hard with himself. He knew Lanceyy was

on the road to ruin ; that lie was not in
the least worthy of a lovely, pure, and
high-minded girl. He could have told
Charlotte things of more than one nature,
which would have been quite enough to
set her against Lanceyy for ever.

But she herself — was she not setting
him an example ? Why was she inclined
to yield? Only because she longed to
return the goodness she had experienced
from those who so manifestly loved him,
and for some, to her, inscrutable reason
had linked his lot to theirs.

Might not Lanceyy, in this one matter,
prove himself good and true, if he could
be made so by any thing or any circumstance
? But why must the experiment
needs be tried with what was so precious ?

The gulf when one leaps into it does not
always close.

Don John knew well that this fancy for
Charlotte, or rather that this plan to obtain
her, must be a very sudden one on Lanceyy's

part, and with a flash of thought lie felt
that if he had heard of it a week ago he
should certainly have blamed him in no
measured terms for daring to think of her.
He would have left no stone unturned to
make Charlotte give up the thought of such
a sacrifice — why was he not to speak now?

All this took but a minute or two to
think out. Then he turned again and
looked Charlotte in the face.

I thought he did not love me," she
faltered, " because there was something so
fitful and so sudden in the way that he
poured forth his devoted speeches-yes,
they seemed devoted for the moment —
and then appeared almost to forget me and
them. I believe it was nothing but an unlucky
blush of mine that put it into his
head that I liked him — and — I was rather
near it once."

Don John had suspected this, but he did
not hear it without a jealous pang, and
Charlotte went on.

But I think however fond yon may be
of Lanceyy — and you always used to say that
you loved him better than some of your
own brothers and sisters — and though, todo
him justice, I believe he returns your
affection, yet if you know — not that he has
actually stolen anything more than once
that I do not of course suppose — but
I mean if you know him to be unprincipled—"


"But I do mean that; I do mean that
he has erred in that one way more than
once or twice."

The colour flushed into Charlotte's face.
Do THEY know it ? " she whispered with
an awestruck air.

Father and mother ? Yes."

They never could wish me to take him
then ; and yet, if he should go from bad to
worse, and they should hear that I had
refused him; — they might feel what his
mother wrote to me, that I was cruel, for he
wanted only such an attachment to make

him all that could be wished, and I, it
seemed, did not believe in his deep and
abiding repentance."

She is a base woman," exclaimed Don
John. " It always makes me shudder to
think of her."

Oh, you dislike her ? "

I cannot bear her ; but I am not so
wicked or so unkind as to say that he does
not repent ; or so false as to say that I do
not see in a marriage with you his very
best chance of a thorough reformation."

Charlotte looked pleased — she hardly
knew herself what she wished. It was
sweet to think herself beloved, but yet
she was inexorable in pointing out things
which had made her doubt it.

Do you know I could not help thinking
when I saw his mother's letter, that it was
she who had put it into his head — of course,
if I was sure of his love I could not talk of
him in this cold-hearted fashion."

The tone of inquiry, and almost of entreaty,

was evident. " You have made it
difficult, you know, for me to believe anything
of that sort ! "

Don John forced himself to say, " It was
an unparalleled piece of imprudence on my
part to put such nonsense into your head ! "

Charlotte looked up at him, her smile
increasing till the dimple came. She was
pleased. " The event justified you ! " she
said, " and your finding it out so early did
you great credit. But do give your mind
to this, and your opinion about it, for you
are thinking of something else. I want
you to understand how queer his declaration
was ; and it was mixed up with remarks
about my uncle, who was severe to him,
he said, and about how splendidly he was
getting on — he should soon be quite independent
of him."

"Lanceyy getting on!" exclaimed Don
John; '' Lanceyy independent ! How can
he be getting on? I never heard a word
about it. It is all since I saw him."

'' I am sure lie said so, and also sure
that lie came to ask for his quarter's allowance.
My aunt and I were both sitting
with uncle, and when he saw Lanceyy, who
came in gently, he seemed a good deal
distressed."

My dear father ! What did he say ? "

He said, ' That's my prodigal son : it

embitters my bread to know that he will

some day bring himself to want bread.'

He was a little confused after the blow on

his head. Aunt Estelle took Lanceyy away,

and then my uncle said to me, ' I hope

you will never forsake him.' I said, ' No.'

Well, afterwards Aunt Estelle came back,

and sent me away, and Naomi and I cried

together a little in the play-room. In the

garden, after that, Lanceyy talked to me.

Oh, I cannot be ungrateful ! He came

again the next day, and I laughed at him ;

and I cannot help laughing now. It

seemed no more real to me than Fetch

does ! I do not know how it was, but I

did not think lie talked like a lover. I
thought of you."

She laughed a little nervously.

Thought of me," repeated Don John.
Her words were rather ambiguous : they
made his heart beat. Charlotte turned
the pearl bracelet on her arm and blushed
excessively.

"I am sure it was not the right thing,"
she said. " He asked me to marry him —
to be engaged at once ; but if my uncle
has been very much displeased with him,
as his mother's letter seems to hint, and
if Lanceyy is almost afraid that he should
give him up, how natural that he should
wish to marry into the family, and so make
such a thing almost impossible. Lanceyy
cannot get it out of his head that I love
him. He never had any tact any more than
I have. First he urged me to accept him
on account of his love, then he as it were
threatened me that if I declined it would
be the worse for him. I don't think he

was considering me much ; and I formed
this theory as to wliy lie wanted me almost
while lie spoke."

Don John did not know what dangerous
ground he was venturing on. Who could
have supposed that he was not to agree
with her ? He said, —

I think that shows you do not really
care much about him. You have given
the verdict yourself, why ask for one from
me?"

"I do care," said Charlotte, looking
dreamily at him, '' and I must read you
the letters." The candle was low in the
socket. She began to sort them, but had
hardly opened the first, when the leaping
light covered her with its yellow flickering
radiance, and then sank and was out.
Some other time you shall hear them,"
she went on. " No, I have not decided ;
I could make myself marry him if I
chose."

And you might be miserable."

Not if I saw that I was improving him,
saving him, and so relieving Aunt Estelle
and my uncle; only what you have just
told me is such a sad surprise as almost
to render that impossible which I had been
trying to make up my mind to. But you
speak with a kind of restraint — I am sure
you do."

I speak like a fellow who feels that he
must and will repeat and justify all he has
said to the person whom it most concerns.
I must and shall tell Lanceyy what I have
said against him. And I speak, remembering
how Lanceyy and I were bound to one
another all our childhood by a great affection,
which I know he depends upon to
this moment."

And that makes you wish to be as
moderate and fair as you possibly can."

That, and other things."

You will talk to him then ? "

Certainly."

What shall you say?"

'' Would it be fair to him that I should
tell you?"

'' I think it would be fair to me. You
seem to forget me."

Silence here for a moment ; then Charlotte
put her little warm hand on Don
John's sleeve, and added, " But perhaps
you have no fixed thought in your mind as
to what you shall say ? "

"I knew before you spoke what I should
first say."

He did not lay his hand upon hers ; but
when she withdrew it, and said, " Tell it
me," he answered, —

I shall first say that I am aware —
at least, I know — that he does not love
you."

You will?" exclaimed Charlotte rather
bitterly. " Oh yes, of course you would
be sure to think that; and secondly, I suppose
you will say that you know he is not
reformed."

I certainly shall."

"But you need hardly add, for it does
not matter, that you should not care to
see your cousin dragged down through
any foolish hope of serving yours or you ;
or that you see any presumption in his
offer; for that, in fact, the son of an
English carpenter is quite equal to the
descendants of Irish kings." Thereupon
Charlotte broke down again, and began to
cry with vexation, and perhaps with mortified
self-love.

I beg your pardon," blundered Don
John. '"' You said yourself that you felt
he did not love you, or I should not have
presumed — "

She had started up by this time.

"It is quite time to go in," she remarked,
interrupting him ; and she stepped
forth into the dusky garden, when, having
dried her eyes, she presently answered
some further apologetic speech by asking
him some question about his visit to
Scotland.

VOL. III. G

Charlotte had never had a lover in her
life. She was quite capable of expressing
doubt as to the truth of this one ; but
when it was taken for granted, by the
person who should have dissipated her
doubts, that he could not be true, it was
rather too much for her philosophy. She
would have sacrificed herself without
mercy, if she had heartily believed that
she was beloved ; and now — well, Lanceyy,
poor fellow, was certainly not worth
having. It would have been a great convenience
to this family if she could have
reformed him; but since her great ally
KNEW that he only wanted to make a convenience
of her, all the sweetness of a
sacrifice would be taken away if she made
it, and only degradation and misery would
be left.

Charlotte was very disconsolate the next
day. So was Don John. She did not
meet his efforts at reconciliation, but
simply passed them over.

A woman, young, beautiful, warmhearted,
it was a peculiar mortification to
her not to be beloved.

Lie must have lost her heart at once if
she had known that any eyes found the
light in hers sweet.

That there was a foolish young fellow
close at hand, who found every nook in
house or garden complete and perfect if she
was in it, treasured up all her sayings with
approval, thought the changes on her cheek
more fair than the flush of sunset — she
could not have behoved without due
assurance ; but she was not to have that
assurance. She never mentioned Lanceyy
now, and she could not get over the mortification
which she had, however, brought
upon herself; and Don John soon knew
from Lanceyy himself that she had refused
him, and yet had so far yielded to his mother's
deprecating letters as to promise that
she would not utterly decide against him,
she would let him speak again in the spring.
G 2

That was a long, cold, dark winter. It
appeared as if the spring would never come.
Don Holm lead anxieties common to himself
with all the family, and he had some
which oppressed him alone. Among the
first was the putting off of Marjorie's
marriage. The two thousand pounds promised
to his eldest daughter could not be
produced without expedients which Donald
Johnston considered unjust to his other
children. So he put it off till " the spring,"
hoping to produce it then ; but only Don
John knew how this told on his health and
spirits, surprised and annoyed the family
of his intended son-in-law, and disappointed
his daughter.

As to Don John, he groaned in secret
over the assurance which had suffered him
so fearlessly to interfere. If he had but
left Marjorie alone !

In the meantime Donald Johnston soon
recovered from his accident, and began
to resume his usual habits. He thought

himself well, and it did not come under this
observation that he was never long alone.

He might have a sudden fainting fit
again. He must not go to town or walk
or drive alone, but quite naturally it came
to pass that he hardly ever was alone.
His wife saw to that when he was at home
his son always went to town with him,
lunched with him, sat in the same room,
and came back with him.

Such consolation as was to be got out of
the increasing love of both parents Don
John received that winter, but his life was
dull, and time and events seemed hard upon
him. A good deal more money was lost
that winter; and Lanceyy caused Don John
a world of worry, for Lanceyy was getting
on — so his mother said ; but how could
this be ? He was only a clerk — he had
never been articled. Sometimes Don
John went to see his mother, Mrs. Ward.
She had possessed a good deal of handsome
jewellery, and was parting with it by

degrees. Lie had easily persuaded Lanceyy
that it was to this advantage to share her
lodgings, and the Johnston had not been
able to prevent this. Little enough, if any,
of her four hundred a year ever came to
her ; yet a certain air of triumph appeared
sometimes in her manner, and surprised
Don John, no less than did the sullenness
and reserve of Lanceyy when he would
come from time to time to see his adoptive
father, and receive his quarter's
allowance.

So the winter dragged slowly on. Don
John had much more to do than before his
father's illness. Charlotte was a good
deal away with her own people, and she
had soon appeared to forgive him after
their unlucky conversation ; but there was
seldom anything to discuss as of old.

Don John knew that several letters had
been written by Lanceyy' s mother to Charlotte,
and he often longed to tell her that she
ought to confide the matter to his parents,

who were her natural guardians. He was
sure of this, but how should he say it? why
did he wish it, excepting because he knew
they would not approve ? No, Lanceyy must
and should have his chance, however bitter
this might be to his foster brother.

It was not till the end of March that
Charlotte, who had just returned from a
long visit, said to him as they were walking
home from church, and a little behind the
others, —

'' Mrs. Ward has been teazing me again
about Lanceyy, asking whether I consider
that this is the spring. You have said
that you know he does not care for me
now, but I suppose you can hardly say that
you know he never will?"

No, I am not so base as to say that.
But then, Charlotte, you are not so poor in
affection that you do well to hang on the
hope of his, if it is yet to come. There is
not one person in our house that does not
love you heartily."

More than Lancej is ever likely todo
? "

' Comparisons are odious'' I only say
that we all love you heartily. My father
and mother do."

"Yes."

And the girls do."

"Yes."

And I do."

"Well, now you say it in so many words
I remember that I have had no cause all
these years to think otherwise. And yet
why should you, there seems no reason ? "

There is every reason."

A short silence here, then Charlotte
looked up at him and said, " Sometimes
we have quarrelled, and often we have
argued together, and I have not been nice
to you at all."

Don John felt a singing in his ears, it
appeared to repeat to him " Lanceyy —
Lanceyyyy — Lanceyyyy;" he set his teeth together,
and was silent.

She went on in a tone of sweet elation,
*' But that was because I did not know.
So many people in the world who love me
heartily — almost as heartily, he appeared
to say, as I love them. And it sounded
quite true. Now the world seems much
more beautiful and happy, and I am enriched,
and that other talk of Lanceyy's is
all the more sham. I forgive you, Don
John ; I am consoled, and I shall never
quarrel with you any more."

Was not this the right time to speak ?
If so Charlotte did not know it. She
found the former speech complete.

CHAPTER V.

And now, the very daj before Lancej was
expected — Lanceyy, who was to spend a
fortnight, and do no one could tell what
mischief — have all opportunity to plead his
cause, and perhaps to win Charlotte, under
the opened eyes of her true lover — now,
when Don John, quite out of heart, almost
wished himself old, that he might have lived
through and forgotten the bitterness of his
youth — now, while he was tossed about in
twenty minds what to say and what to do —
his course was suddenly decided for him.
At breakfast time there came in a telegram,
setting forth that Captain Leslie was dangerously
ill and desired exceedingly to see
him.

Such a scramble to get him ready, that
his traveling up to London in his father's
company might come to pass naturally !
Such fervent thankfulness expressed by his
mother that Lanceyy, as would be equally
natural, was to be his companion for sometime
to come !

Nobody had much time to consider that to
request Don John's presence was strange ;
and as for him, he never thought about it.

So far as any comfort that he might have
been to Leslie, or any counsel he might
have received, he was too late. Captain
Leslie was insensible, he was fast passing
away ; but Don John sat in his presence
for many hours of several days and several
nights, and the solemnities of death came
on and showed themselves, surprising both
his sorrow and his love.

This would certainly be the end, whatever
might come in before it. He had
time to contemplate its absolute isolation
as well as its majestic calm. At last one

day at dawn, while lie half dozed, the
doctor touched him on the shoulder. That
impassive form had taken on an air of rapturous
peace ; he saw at once that all was
oyer, and he shortly went downstairs,
and prepared to depart.

A paper had been left giving directions
about the funeral, and mentioning where
the will would be found. It was at a
banker's in London — Don John remembered
afterwards that he had heard this
said by Leslie's lawyer — and he then set
forth home, thinking how little there had
been in the letters from his family.

He had telegraphed, so that they knew
when to expect him ; and after his long
journey, he approached the garden gate,
through the field, about eight o'clock on
an April morning.

A white figure, glorified with morning
sunshine, stood and waited.

So far off as he could see her at all, he
knew that it was Charlotte. Lanceyy was

not with lier, and lie did not look up.
No, a sort of tender slime touched the
rose-lied lips, and made the long black
lassies droop. " Cliarlotte ! Are you well ?
are they all well ? "

"Yes."

'where's Lanceyy ? "

He wanted to know the worst — suspense
was torture.

She only answered, —

I thought I would rather see you at
once, and — and you would have a minute
to think before you met them all."

I can easily think what it is, dear," he
answered, trembling.

No, you cannot," the colour faded from
her face. " You were quite right about
Lanceyy."

Don John drew a long breath. What did
she mean ? was she not come to tell him
that she was engaged ? , She seemed to be
overcome with a shy, sharp pain. " Lance
is not here," she almost whispered.
•' He never came ! "

Steer came ! "

'' 'No, he wrote to uncle that lie had an
indispensable engagement to fulfil. Uncle
was so much displeased and so much hurt :
he went and saw Mrs. Ward, and she told
him that Lanceyy had been sent into the
country by his employers. But it's false,
Don John. Uncle believed the story ; she
said she was not at liberty to say where
they'd sent him. She wrote to me the
very same day, imploring me, if I knew
anything of Lanceyy's whereabouts, to let
her know, for she feared the worst — she had
run away. He had taken all his best
clothes and possessions, and he had been
gone twenty-four hours.

Don John, pale to the lips, looked at her,
and for the moment found nothing to say,
of course she knew nothing of what was
passing in his mind.

u There," she said with a little movement
of her hand, as if she would put Lanceyy
from her, "it is agreed between us that

you would say something kind to me if
under circumstances of such ignominy there
was anything to be said." She looked
almost more distressed than ashamed.

Don't cry, Charlotte," was all Don John
found to say ; he was so dumbfoundered
that his thoughts were all scattered abroad.
But this letter," he presently exclaimed,
what was the post-mark on it ? "

His mother says he left it behind, with
the envelope not fastened. She read it,
and not knowing what better to do, sent it
on without comment or explanation."

Of course he has not written to you ?"

No, and uncle has not been told what
Aunt Estelle and I dread, for I went at
once and related all to her ; and we have
had a miserable week, for there was no one
to go up and down with uncle. Happily he
is well, and you are come home, so that
trouble settles itself. I do not forget that
you too have had a solemn and anxious
week. But I have not told you liar about

Lanceyy yet. He has changed his name, as
his mother tells me, and that bodes no good,
I am sure. But, Don John, this is not the
only scrape we are in." She had dashed
away her tears now, and an air almost of
amusement came into her face. They were
emerging from the cherry orchard by this
time. The starry celandine was glittering
all over the grass, and the cherry blossom
was dropping on Charlotte, when she
turned, and standing still for the moment,
Yes, we two," she went on, '' and nobody
else."

"Not Mr. Brown's affair?" exclaimed
Don John.

Here they all are coming forth to meet
you ! Yes, Don John, Mr. Brown's affair.
This time, I suppose he thought he had
better not conduct the matter personally ;
he got his father to write to my uncle.
The old Canon seemed therefore to think
his consent very doubtful, but he wrote
politely; gave some hint, I believe, that

this fortune was small, but spoke of this
high respect for uncle; and said that in
about ten days he should be in the neighbourhood
staying with the vicar, and if by
that time the young lady had made up her
mind to accept his son, he hoped to be
asked here, to make her acquaintance and
assure her of a welcome."
'" And Naomi?"

0, Naomi ! when my uncle showed her
the letter she did not attempt to disguise
her delight."

What on earth is to be done ? "

"When I consider how we encouraged
his modest hopes, how we set him before
Naomi in the best light ! Oh — "

Why it is not without the greatest
difficulty that father will be able to produce
the two thousand pounds he promised
to Foden with Marjorie. It will be years,
if ever, before he can give the same to another
daughter. Oh ! what a fool I have
been."

VOL. III. H

You must not meet them with such an
air of consternation. You must make the
best of it."

'' But there is no test. It's all mj own
doing. I have already brought father
into pecuniary straights, and now I am
going to make Naomi miserable."

And thereupon they all met.

It was not an occasion when smiles
could have been expected, but even the
parents who shared all their anxieties with
Don John were surprised at what Charlotte
had called his consternation.

Marjorie was present; she looked serene
now, the day for her wedding was fixed,
her fortune was to be ready, and she little
knew at what a sacrifice.

And iSTaomi was present.

Don John was very fond of ISTaomi;
when he saw her face he felt a lump rise
in his throat. It was all his own doing !
What had they said to her ? Perhaps they
had told her the whole truth, that she was

dowerless ; perhaps they had only hinted
at a long engagement. What was it that
she knew ? Well, he could never forgive
himself; he had meddled, and he had his
reward.

I'll sit down," exclaimed Don John
suddenly ; "I don't feel as if I could
breathe."

His mother was at his side instantly.
He was close to a bench, and she took
him by the arm.

He sat down and battled with the lump
in his throat.

'' I dare say he has been up for two or
three nights," observed his mother, " and
perhaps has had nothing to eat for
hours."

I'm all right," said Don John, almost
directly, and the whirling trees seemed to
settle down into their places, so did the
people.

A strange sense of disaster and defeat
was upon him. And Charlotte was gone.
H 2

He felt with a pang that though Lanceyy
was off, Charlotte had never spoken o£
him in a tone of such pity, nor to himself
with such unconscious indifference.

But presently here was Charlotte again,
in one hand a roll, in the other a glass of
red wine. He had time to notice her solicitous
haste ; two or three drops of the
wine had flowed over the brim. There
never was such a precious cordial before ;
he clasped the little hand that held it,
without taking the glass from her, and she
held it to his lips ; a delightful thought
darted into his mind.

He was quite well again. He looked up
at her as she leaned towards him, and she
whispered, " Never mind, perhaps it will
all come right in the end."

A prophetess of hope, how lovely she
looked as she stepped aside ! He often
thought of her words afterwards ; just then
they only meant kindness, the consolation
was only in her good intentions. And so

lie stepped aside, and Mary came running
up with a telegram, addressed to Donald
Johnston, Esq., the younger.

Donald Johnston, Esq., the younger,
took it^in his hand and turned it over.
His mother was beside him, and the others
were grouped before him as he sat.

He really for the moment could not
take his eyes from Charlotte's face.

At last he read the telegram; and
thence looked at her again. His air
of helpless astonishment was almost
ridiculous — Charlotte thought so — that
dimple of hers showed it. It was very
sweet.

'' Well? " exclaimed Marjorie.

Then he read the telegram aloud. It
was such an important one that they
forthwith forgot to notice how he was
behaving. It ran thus : —

Sir, — The will has arrived, and we
look to you for orders. You are respectfully
requested to return for the funeral,

the deceased Captain Leslie having left
yon his sole heir."

Nobody had a word to say. Each one
looked at some one of the others.

Don John presently rose, and in absolute
silence they all walked in to breakfast.


Don John was relieved to find all the
blinds of the breakfast-room down, he was
in a state of elation which he felt to be
almost indecent ; he was trying hard to
conceal it, and hoped that the green gloom,
made by these blinds would help him.

It was not about his inheritance ; no,
that was astonishing, but hardly yet understood.
It was not that Lanceyy seemed
to have given up Charlotte ; no, for Charlotte
was distressed at it — how much dis-dressed
he could not yet be sure. It was
because he had felt that morning a
momentary faintness. Such a thing had
never occurred in his life before ; but just
as he felt as if about to faint, a flash of

ecstatic pleasure at the thought completely
restored him.

*' I should not wonder," he said to himself,
with boyish delight and pride, '' if
I've got a heart complaint ; and if so, I'm
all right. I must have inherited it from
father. I'll never give myself an uneasy
moment about that cruel woman's story
any more."

He had been up four nights, and had
travelled many hours without food — he
wished to give these facts their due attention
; and while he ate his breakfast he
got deeper and deeper into cogitation over
them, all his people letting him alone.
At last, but not till breakfast was nearly
over, he began to look at Charlotte
and Naomi. Naomi was so pale, and
Charlotte was so nervous, and so perturbed.


He longed for time to talk to them, but
if he meant to go back to Scotland there
was absolutely none to be lost.

"Time's up, mj boy," said Donald John-stone.
Perhaps he was a little disappointed,
considering the pecuniary straits,
which had all been confided to his son,
that not one word was said to him in
private before the young man started off.

As to the mother, she was more than
distressed, she was almost displeased.
He had scarcely mentioned Leslie. He
meant to go, and not first tell her anything
of the solemn days he had spent.
He would give her no chance of telling
him anything of Lanceyy. She had wished
so sorely to consult him about JSTaomi.

Even when he kissed her, he was so lost
in thought that he gave no answering
glance to hers that seemed to wonder and
to question him.

No, before the morning meal was quite
over, he was off; and she went up to her
own room to look at him as he went down
the long field, running rather than walking.

It was an unsatisfactory parting. In

the two or three letters that followed it
hardly anything was said. The meeting
at the end of a week was quite as strange.
He came in unexpectedly, just before
dinner, and the whole evening he seemed
to be fencing off any discussion. Then,
before his sisters had withdrawn he fell
asleep in the corner of the sofa, and soon
took himself off to bed, tired out, as it
seemed, with travel and with business.

But the next morning Don John was
up as early as usual, and his father heard
him bustling about. It was a brilliant
morning, and Don John was taking out
basket chairs, and placing them under a
certain tree at the edge of the orchard.
After breakfast he said, "Won't you spare
this one day for talk, father? Don't goto
town ; you have never said one word tome
yet. Why, you don't even know what
was in the will, though I did let you
know how absolutely, and without conditions,
all comes to me."

"So be it; I will stay," answered Donald
Johnston.

I have made a place in the orchard,"
said Don John. " I could tell you and
mother best out of doors."

His mother finding herself included, took
up her work and a parasol, and followed.

It will be less awkward for me to doit
there," he went on.

Less awkward, my boy," repeated the
father. " Why should it be awkward at
all?"-

There was silence after this till they
reached the three basket chairs, which he
had set into the shadow of a young lime-tree.
The parents seated themselves.
The son threw himself on the grass at
their feet.

"It's more than you expected," he said,
looking up at them. " There's seven
thousand pounds in different investments,
and then the land is worth at the very
least ten thousand more."

'' That is more than I expected."

And I suppose, father, though it is left
to me as Donald Johnston, the eldest son
of Donald Johnston and his wife Estelle,
I suppose no one can dispute it with
me."

Ko, my son ; no one can dispute it,
since I acknowledge you. I do not care to
hear you bring forward that subject. It
can only give us pain."

But I consider that if this inheritance
had come to me before I was of age, it
would have been your business, and your
right, to say what should be done with it."

I don't catch your meaning."

There are two, if not three courses,
that you might have pursued, or at least
wished to pursue, and I should have had
nothing to say against any of them."

"Well?"

'* You might have wished that it should
all be equally divided between me and
Lanceyy — money and land."

The father made no answer.

Or you might have wished that I
should give, or leave the land, to Fred.
(for that is in my power), and that I should
divide the money with Lanceyy."

Still no answer.

'' Or you might have wished that I
should keep it all."

'eyes, I might have wished that you
should keep it all."

"And yet it was left me for my mother's
sake."

The father and mother fell silent here.
What more indeed could be added to all
that they had felt, or even to the little that
they had said ?

I owe a great deal to Captain Leslie,"
said Don John, after a long pause. "When
I was so ill, he came and prayed for me.
I did not like it, but afterwards I could
not help thinking about it. How anxious
he was to console me. I thought I should
die of misery. He could not make out

what the misery was, but he suffered it too
for mother's sake."

I know he felt for us."

And he said he knew I was under
the shadow of a great grief, but that if I
could trust God, He could turn it into a
ground of consolation. He said, take
this grief and lay it in the Saviour's
hands. He will show its other side to
you, and you shall not feel its bitterness
any more."

Good people," said his mother, " have
said like things to me ; " and she remembered
how she had felt when the doubt
about her child first fell on her : " this, at
least," she had said " could never be made
a blessing in disguise."

'well," continued Don John, "I used
to lie and think that no fellow had ever
been so basely used ; but after that prayer
of his, I felt suddenly consoled by the very
last thought that you would have said
could have in it any consolation."

Why should you think of that time at
all? You are our dear son."

I like to think of it now. He was
a very curious man. He spoke to our
Saviour that night just as if he was sending
up a message by Him to the Almighty
Father which was sure to be duly delivered.
They were very reverent, but yet they appeared
so intimate — those things that he
said ; and he spoke of his love for mother,
as i£ it was perfectly well known up there,
and as if they pitied him."

"His love for mother." She had not
been able till his last days to give Captain
Leslie even a moderate degree of kindly
liking in exchange for his love ; but now
she sat back in her chair, and covered her
face with her hand. An almost unbearable
pang smote her, and made the tears course
down her cheeks. She could not get
beyond the thought that he was hidden
away in the dark, and she was out in the
bountiful sunshine of early summer, there

was such a peaceful spreading forth of
young green leaves about her. It was so
well with the world ; but he was gone, and
she had not been kind enough to him.
She longed to get away from any sense
of death and darkness for him, and said to
her son, " I cannot bear more of this ;
tell me about Leslie's prayer."

CHAPTER YI.

Don John looked at his mother. 'why
are you distressed?" he said. "What Captain
Leslie wanted was to comfort me. I
soon let him know that he had done it.
He took the sting out of that cruel story
that he knew nothing of."

Then he had his reward," remarked
Donald Johnston.

He and his son hardly ever so much as
mentioned '' that cruel story," against
which Don John had at first raged, and
then fallen sick. Both parents had done
all they could to comfort him, and inspire
him with their own intense belief that he
was theirs.

It was a base lie," continued Don

John. " You told me to think so ; and you
said the chances against my not being
your own son were a thousand to one."

Yes, my boy, a thousand to one
against it in fact, and far, far more than
that in our opinion and feeling. I feel
always, that nothing could ever disturb
the fatherly affection which belongs to
you, quite as much as to any of my other
children."

"But I thought it was so hard that
such a tale should have been told to me,"
said Don John. " I hated it, and that
woman, and could not get well because I
raged against her so. But it stole into
my mind all at once as he prayed for me,
that I was not unfortunate after all, for by
those nine hundred and ninety-nine chances
I certainly had all I wanted — all the right
in you and mother, in this brother, these
sisters, and this home, that I could have ;
but that there was yet that one other
chance to be thought of. It should not be

VOL. III. I

left out altogether, faint, and slender, and
slight as it was. If that one of the
thousand chances was mine, how then?
Had I any quarrel against my life, and
grudge against my destiny then ? It was
not so ; then I had all. It was so ; and then
the most singular piece of good fortune had
fallen to me that was ever in the lot of man !

'' But father, how good you have always
been to me — more than most fathers you
have let me know all your affairs ; you
have even consulted me : and I should not
like — I mean, I do not like to surprise you."

He had surprised both parents now, but
though he looked confused and shame-faced,
he laughed. Then taking off his "chimneypot
" hat, he remarked on its being such a
queer thing to wear in the country, but it
was the only black one he had; and he
smoothed it with his sleeve, and appeared
to examine the band of crape upon it with
interest. It was a transparent device
for gaining a little time.

As he close to leave this property tome,"
lie began, and then came to a dead
pause.

"Well?" said his father.

Of course it's mine," continued Don
John, after a very long pause.

That's rather a flat conclusion to
your speech," said Donald Johnston, and
laughed himself.

Of course it would seem only natural
that I should consult you about it."

It would indeed ! "

Yes, father, I am glad you could
laugh. I believe you will trust me. I am
sorry — I am dressed in a little brief authority
you see, and mean to use it — I am
sorry, but I cannot consult you at all."

I always told your mother you were a
very odd young fellow."

Don John looked up at him, '' Like fatherlike
son," he murmured, but I not at all
disrespectfully.

What, sir ! do you insinuate that I am
I 2

an odd fellow too ? But take a little time
to consider, my boy, before you do anything,
or promise anything. I hope you
are not proposing in your own mind anything
Utopian."

Have I not always lived in Utopia ?
What could have been more Utopian, father,
than your conduct and mother's, unless
indeed it isXaptain Leslie's ? "

Take a little time," repeated the
mother.

Not till Shave told you, which I want
to do at once, that poor Lanceyy must not
have any of it."

Rather a surprised silence here. He
presently went on, '' Because that would
not be just to mother, and the younger
children.

But I wanted to tell you at once, father,
that two thousand pounds of the money
is absolutely at my own disposal at this
moment. We shall want it for Marjorie."

We ! " exclaimed his father.

"Yes, thank God," said the mother.
Let him alone, Donald. What better with
it could he do ? "

"You know very well with what difficulty,
and at what a disadvantage you were,
to borrow it. Marjorie's dower is to be
paid down by me tomorrow."

Yes," repeated the mother, " quite
right. Let him alone, Donald; let him
show himself your true son."

Only," continued Don John, " nobody
knows that you have done anything Utopian,
father, and we cannot afford to have
people talk as if I had ; so you will have to
accept the money from me by deed of gift,
and forthwith settle it on her ; and neither
she nor any one else must know."

The father drew a long breath, and
found not a word to say, the relief was so
opportune, the advantage so great.

And then there is Naomi," continued
Don John. " I do not believe the old boy
(well, I mean him no disrespect ; he has a

right to expect what his son has no don't
told him you were to give to your other
daughter), I do not believe he would welcome
her without it. I make over another
two thousand pounds at once to you. I
hereby declare the fact ; and tomorrow,
when the Canon calls, I hope that matter
will be settled."

Stop, my boy, it is too much for you
to despoil yourself of."

*'Me — for me to despoil myself of! —
"What does that mean ? "

'' I did say to you that I did not wish
Lanceyy to have any of this — "

'eyes."

'' Then I cannot either."

Wait a minute," exclaimed the mother.
I foresaw this ; but, my dear boy, decide
nothing more at present ; do wait."

I will delay to tell you, mother, if you
please."

*' Do advise with us," she repeated
tenderly.

I have made a vow that I would not,
but I will delay."

"A vow, not that you would do this
or that, but only that you would not consult
us?"

Yes, mother, that I would not consult
you."

'' I do not care to wait, then ; so far as
your decision is made, I wish to know it."

Mother, you must not be vexed. I
decide, that when Fred is of age, he is
to have the house, and the farm, and the
land."

And you think that would not cause
talk, and appear strange?"

'' Not if my father takes me into partnership
at the same time."

*' And are you really proposing all this
only that Lanceyy may not feel himself
grieved? "

"Xo, mother, and yet it is mainly on
Lanceyy' s account ; but we have no time to
talk any more.

A gleam of amusement lighted up Don
John's eyes. A tall girl was ushering into
the orchard a fat old divine. Blushing,
and very becomingly shy, she came slowly
forward, he waddling beside her. Don
John had met her that morning on the
stairs. She looked pale, drooping, dull.
Don John in brotherly fashion, which
means with intimate and somewhat bluff
kindness, devoid of chivalry, and devoid of
deference, had kissed her, and whispered
in her ear, " Don't mope, Nay. I'm sure it's
all right."

A light leaped into Naomi's eyes.

How do you know ? " she replied. " I
thought it was all wrong ; father — "

'well, father?" replied Don John,
following her into the play-room.

Father said almost as much as that
he hoped I should not be disappointed
if— if it could not be arranged."

And why shouldn't it be arranged ? "
said Don John, with a stolid air.

Naomi's face took on a soft blush of
pleasure.

I wish you had been at home," she
said naively; '' I have been so miserable.
I thought father meant that he could not
give me the same fortune he is giving
Marjorie, and I was afraid — Oh, I knew
Canon Brown depended on my having it."

There's no occasion to think of such
a thing," exclaimed Don John; this in a
whisper, " Mark my words, father will lay
down the two thousand pounds like a
brick."

'' He will be able then ? dear father ! "

'' You'll see."

So now Naomi was seen between the
trees, sweet in her maidenly dignity, and
trying hard not to show in her manner
that she supposed this to be more than an
ordinary morning call. She came on, and
as her father and mother rose and advanced
to meet their guest, Don John accompanied
them far enough to bow to him ; then.

bestowing on Ms sister something uncommonly
like a wink, lie gravely withdrew,
or, as he would himself have expressed it,
sloped."

He had a great deal to think of, and
many things to do which were not likely
to be as easily arranged as Naomi's dower.
Naturally he was drawn to the house, for
there Charlotte was. The play-room was
generally given up to her in the morning,
and as he came round he looked up at the
window, and saw her as she sat writing.

He entered the room, and when he shut
the door behind him, she said, ''I knew
you would come as soon as possible."
Don John had hardly time to feel agitated
and pleased before she went on — " I hope
you will not be disappointed; there is
nothing more to tell you about Lanceyy ;
neither his mother nor I have heard anything
of him." Her mind was too full of
Lanceyy just then to admit anything else,
so it seemed ; but presently she looked up,

and as if surprised at something that she
saw, contemplated Don John for a few
moments with a musing expression in
her deep blue eyes. He was at once very
much out of countenance, but she did not
notice this. She said, with the downright
straightforwardness of a sister, " I'm sure
Marjorie is right ; you look different. We
never used to think you were at all — I
mean particularly — good-looking when you
were a boy."

An implied change of opinion gave Don
John unfeigned delight. He tried to hide
it. "No; but, as Mrs. Nickleby said of
Ralph, you two used always to declare,
but it's an honest face.' "

'' Yes," said Charlotte, and went on,
so dispassionately, 'but I always liked it;
I mean, I liked the look of you." Here
she folded her arms on the table, and
leaned forward, as if about to dismiss
that subject for something of real interest.
" But have you heard anything ? "

she went on; "do you think tliafc anything
can be done ? "

Don John succumbed at once. There
was only one way to interest her — it was
to talk of his rival ! To do him justice,
he was almost as much distressed for her
as for himself; and Lanceyy — he had the
best reason to know that Lanceyy cared for
her nothing at all.

*' Yes, I have heard a good deal," he
began; and went on, making a pause
between each sentence, as if not to overwhelm
her with the waves of a too sudden
disaster, " I did not mean to tell you just
yet. If anything can be done, I am on
the look-out to do it. Lanceyy is gone
away to America, and does not intend to
return. I have seen his mother'*

Seen her ! oh, where ? "

As I stood by the grave during Captain
Leslie's funeral I felt as if something
obliged me to look up; I did, and there
she stood among the bystanders. Lanceyy

was gone ! He had written taking leave
of her, and saying that he should never
see her again. He has changed his name
also, and desired her to tell his old
friends that it was useless to try and communicate
with him. And yet she wished
to follow; she had heard of my inheritance,
and came and asked me to give her
thirty pounds. I did, but I begged her at
least not to sail till she had given him
time to write, in case he changed his
mind."

And she did not tell you why he is so
urgent to leave his own country for ever?"

She could not ; she knows of no reason
at all."

'' She does," said Charlotte, indignantly;
she does know ! "

What ! have you seen her too ? has
she told you anything ? "

"'No; but before you came home from
Scotland the first time, I told you that she
had written to me. In that letter she said

lie had too much reason to fear that it was
the old story. Almost by the next post
she wrote again, and begged me to return
that letter, telling me that she felt she
had made some groundless charges ; she
desired to have both her letters, and I
sent them back to her, hoping against
hope. But if Lanceyy is really off, and
really in hiding, as I consider he is if he
has changed his name, I cannot hope the
best — I fear the worst."

''I never thought of this," said Don
John, quite aghast ; " but I have known
for some time that he plays high. I
thought he had got himself so crushed
under the weight of these shameful debts
of honour that his only chance was to

fly."

"How distressed Aunt Estelle and my
uncle will be if it is anything worse."

Two large tears had gathered in Charlotte's
eyes, and now they trembled on the
long, dark lashes.

And the mother said nothing more.

but only asked you to give her this thirty
pounds ? " she continued.

Oh, yes," exclaimed Don John, " she
said a great deal more ! "

In fact, this is what had occurred; Mrs.
Ward had reminded Don John that his
father had always said the two boys should
be equally well off. She did not see " but
what his wish ought to be binding on Mr.
Don John — to divide all honestly. She
might not see her way to keep silence any
longer," she observed, " unless she had
his promise 'that this should be done."

To her great surprise Don John laughed
scornfully at her, and defied her, bidding
her do her worst. Look at me," he
exclaimed, almost in a passion, " look
straight into my face and tell me whether
if you were my mother it would be possible
for me to dislike you as I do. Look at
me, I say, and if there's any truth in you
speak it out and tell me how you hate the
sight of me. Is that possible to a mother
—that ? "

I didn't mean to put you out'* lie
faltered. '' It was only when you made as
if you'd shake hands with me that I — "

That you shrank ! you trembled from
head to foot. You can't bear me. And
now hear this, I would rather all the world
knew your base story — I would rather all
this property was sunk into the sea than
that it should go to pay the debts of an
inveterate selfish gambler."

Mr. Johnston always made out that he
had a claim ;" she was very much frightened
by this time, and perfectly pale, but she
still dared him.

A claim ! " repeated Don John. " Oh,
yes, a fine claim ! You know best what it
amounts to. But granted that he had the
utmost claim — granted that he was the son,
the eldest son — is this prodigal son, who has
run away twice from his family, disobeyed
his father, and disgraced himself, is he to be
allowed more than any other prodigal would
he to share this property with the younger

children, and lay it out in paying for his
vices."

"You needn't be in such a passion, sir.
I'm a poor weak woman, but it's my duty
to speak up for my Lanceyy. He's the
only creature I've got in the world to
love." She spoke in a faltering tone, but
no tears came. She was too much
frightened for that. '' Aunt it his right to
have any of it then ? " she went on. " Mr.
Johnston would say very different, I
know."

*' Lanceyy shall never touch a shilling of
it," exclaimed Don John, "unless I
utterly change my mind."

Well then," she cried, flaming up, "I
will say it's hard. It was a shame to bring
him up like a gentleman and then leave
him in the lurch, and you used to pretend
you were so fond of him."

Yes, I did, and do. There is nothing
that is not unjust which I would not do to
save him even now."

VOL. III. K

I don't care to hear talk like that,"
she answered, rising, but trembling so that
she could not get away, as she had meant
to do. " I shall go to Mr. Johnston ; he
was always Lanceyy's friend — ''

'rand so am I. I hope to help him.
There is hardly anything I long for so
much."

I hate to hear such hypocritical
talk," she cried out, almost more angry
than he had been. " Don't tell me what
you long for — and do nothing. I don't like
it."

Then," he answered, with a bitterness
that surprised to the point of calming her,
I will tell you something that you will
like." Here, however, he fell into a musing
fit, and paused.

"Yes, sir," she faltered, "something
that I shall like ? " All this time she had
kept the purse in her hand which contained
the thirty pounds ; she now slipped it
quietly into her pocket. She wished to defy

him to the utmost, but not to give him
his money back.

He lifted up his face, and went on :
This property — I have decided that as I
cannot share it with Lanceyy, I cannot keep
any of it for myself."

Though she had been so angry with him
she was shocked when he said this, and
experienced a keen sensation of shame.
This was not Don John's fault, nor
Lanceyy's either. It was all hers. Did she
dislike him heartily enough then to be glad
that he must forfeit his inheritance ? And
did he know it ? Something that you will
LIKE. It was of no use denying it, he read
her better than till this moment she had
read herself.

I shall keep nothing in my own power,"
he added, 'but the disposing of it."

Now, indeed, she had nothing to say, and
she shed a few contrite tears.

Don John went to the window and
stood cogitating when Charlotte asked him
K 2

whether Lanceyy's mother had said anything
more. He revolved the conversation just
detailed in his mind, but did not see what he
could do, or what others could do, supposing
that Lanceyy really was off. A man cannot
be followed to America and made to
pay falsely-called '' debts of honour." And
Charlotte seemed to be taking his utter
withdrawal with very consoling calmness.

In fact she had taken up her pen, and
was beginning to write.

He turned suddenly : yes, she was writing,
and she took no notice when he came
and sat down opposite to her at the table.

He went and fetched a little box of pens.
He had a sort of notion that he should like
to break a certain matter to Charlotte; how
was he to begin ? He came again, and
began to pull out the pens from the great
play-room inkstand. Such a sorry lot they
were. The girls were all by nature untidy;
sometimes they put them down without
wiping them. Interesting pens ! crusted

with dried, rust-like ink. Charlotte so
often had one or another of them in her
little tanned and dimpled fist.

Don John had already put a fresh steel
point into every one of the holders excepting
the one Charlotte held. He was
naturally rather neat with his possessions.
He glanced at her as often as he dared —
she often pouted slightly and knitted her
brow when she wrote. Of course, as he
remarked her she became conscious of it —
people always do. She noticed his occupation,
and that all the holders were clean
excepting the one she held — Don John had
rubbed them with a piece of blotting paper.
The inkstand had been put to rights, and
looked quite creditable. '

It was rather a narrow table ; Charlotte
put her pretty hand across — with the one
old pen in it, and Don John seized it and
looked at it. Now ? No, not now — some
other time. He could not kiss her hand
he did not dare.

Charlotte was a little ashamed of the
pointed way in which, as she thought, he
had called her attention to her inky fingers.
She snatched away her hand, and rushed
out of the room to wash it.

'what a calf I am!" said Don John
to himself in unutterable self-abasement.
'' Why didn't I do it then ? "

There was company to luncheon that day
very important company. Canon Brown
and his son were present, and were made
much of.

The next time Charlotte went into the
play-room she. saw two large new pen-wipers
on the inkstand, each with a gold
tassel.

CHAPTER VII.

Don John was not present at luncheon on
the occasion of Canon Brown's visit; he
had gone np to London, to see if he could
find Mrs. Ward or any traces of her. But
he could not ; she had gone from her late
lodgings, and left no address.

She had said nothing to him when she
had hunted him up in Scotland, as to why
Lacey was off. Whether he had lost
largely at plays, and was gone to hide his
head abroad ; or had won largely, and was
gone to spend his ill-gotten gains, was what
Don John could not decide. But now this
third reason for his absence forced itself on
his foster brother's attention. That he had
been getting on — that is, that he generally

had plenty of money — might be owing to
play; there were several families of the
better class in whose houses he often
visited, and was known to play high ; he
was much sought after, for his manners
were charming. But his mother's hint
about " the old story " could only mean, if
it was true, that he had been a thief again.
If so, he might be followed to America and
brought back, and, spite of all the love and
care, and all the prayers that had been expended
on him, he might yet be a disgrace
to his bringing up. The miserable story
might yet come out, and in the most public
and painful way.

Don John was marching off to the station
after his unsuccessful inquiries. He
wanted to catch the train which would take
him home in time for dinner, when he heard
some one calling after him, and a lad caught
him by the arm.

What is it ? " cried Don John, not best
pleased. The lad pointed to a man with

a monkey under Hs arm ; he looked like
an acrobat — perhaps a Christy Minstrel.
He called to me ' That gentleman has lost
something ,'' said the lad, and he passed
on.

The man had come up, was almost close
to him. Don John had instinctively slapped
his pockets — his watch was safe, and . his
purse. He darted a look at the supposed
acrobat ; he was a fellow of about the
middle height ; he had on a shirt made of
pink flannel, a pair of white duck trousers ;
he wore an old barrister's wig; his face
was chalked, and he had a triangular patch
of black on each cheek, and one of brick
red on his nose.

He tapped his wig with his forefinger
and whispered, " You notice it." It was
tied under his chin with blue ribbon.

Don John heard the bell ring and the
train start, but he stood as if spellbound.
*' I've been hanging about between this
and father's chambers looking out for you

for nearly a week," muttered the acrobat,
'' and I'm half starved."

If Don John had stared at the patched
and painted face for hours he would not
have recognized poor Lanceyy. But the
wig, and a long scarf that he had dressed
himself up in, had been used time out of
mind in the play-room at home for acting
charades. These he recognized at once.
What does it mean ? " sighed Don John,
drawing in his breath with a gasp, and his
legs shaking under him. '' What on earth
is to be done ?"

'there's a policeman," muttered Lanceyy;
he'll tell me to move on. Good gen' V man,
give us a copper to buy the monkey his
nuts''

Now you move on," said the policeman,
just as had been foretold; 'you're not
wanted here."

Lanceyy, who seemed very footsore, accordingly
moved on, with a limping gait ;
and Don John noticed the direction, and

followed him as soon as lie could do it
without exciting attention.

^'What on earth does it mean? " he repeated
when he ventured to pass him and
speak, for they had got into a quiet backstreet.


You go into that shop and buy a tract,"
said Lanceyy, "and I'll tell you."

"A tract I said," he repeated impatiently,
** and give me a shilling, do."

Don John produced the shilling ; Lanceyy
darted into a cook's shop, and presently
came out with cold meat and bread in his
hand. Don John was looking into the
shop he had pointed out (it was a depot of
the Tract Society), and trying to marshal
his scattered wits. " Buy tracts," whispered
Lanceyy as he limped past him.

There was nothing for it but just to do
as he was bidden, and he presently came
out with some tracts in his hand.

]Sow we can talk as long as need be,"
said Lanceyy, who was eating ravenously.

Since I have been rigged up in this way,
city missionaries and Gospel fellows often
offer me tracts. Look out and keep your
wits about you, do ! There, offer me one.
If there is no obvious reason for such as you
are talking to such as I seem, it will excite
attention, and I shall be spotted, and perhaps
nabbed."

As he hurried through this speech,
Don John offered a tract to him : but the
monkey sitting on his shoulder was quicker
than Lanceyy. He put out his weakened
hand, to the very great delight of some
passing children, and snatched it, then
turning it over smelt it suspiciously, after
which he rolled it up into a tight ball, and
persistently tried to get it into Lanceyy' s
mouth. There was soon a little crowd;
poor Lanceyy groaned*

'' Go on," whispered Don John ; " I'll not
lose sight of you." The crowd gathered
and followed with delight, halfpence were
forthcoming, and the children took it amiss

if he did not stop while the monkey received
them in his little hot hand. It was almost
sunset, and Lanceyy's strength was nearly
spent, when, getting a little beyond Horn-sey,
they reached some green fields and
got over a stile, finding themselves alone
at last.

Lanceyy threw himself upon the long grass
among the buttercups. Don John had
bought some food and a bottle of beer as
they walked ; he made him eat and drink,
after which poor Lancy lifted himself up,
and they walked together through the deep
meadow grass, and sat down on the small
bank on which grew a tall hawthorn hedge.

Their disaster seemed to be too deep for
any words of comfort on one side or of
explanation on the other.

'' Oh, don't," groaned poor Lanceyy
piteously ; ** I haven't cried since this happened,
wretched as I have been — and if you
do ! Oh, how shocking it all is, how hateful
! " Then they both broke down utterly ;

the one wept with a passionate storm of
sobs, the other weakly and piteously, like a
tired child. These two still had such an
amount of affection for one another that the
misfortune had to be borne in common.

Lancej hoped now that something might
yet be done for him, and while the stars
came out, and the summer dusk gathered,
he told his miserable story.

But not without many pauses of sullen
silence, not without much questioning.
That old fellow was such a fool," he began,
while his chest was heaving still with
sobs ; " what business had he to put temptation
in my way ? "

What old fellow do you say ? "

Why, old Cottenham — old Cottenham.
I was his clerk. I've no patience with him.
He took such a liking to me from — from the
first, and he knew nothing about me —
nothing at all."

I can't help you unless you'll tell me
what you have done."

Done ! I've done what you can never
set right. I nearly got away — I got to
Liverpool — I was all but off, and had paid
for my passage."

You robbed him, then ? Lanceyy, I can
help you if you'll only tell me all."

Yes, I robbed him then. I had paid
for my passage, when I saw a face that I
knew, a porter old Cottenham employed,
looking at the passengers as they went onboard.
There were detectives with him.
I edged myself back. In short I got
ashore and hid myself."

But tell me what you had stolen."

*' I used to play high ; sometimes I won
—very often I won — and had such sums of
money as you never fingered in your life.
But there came a run of ill-luck, and I
lost all — and got nearly three thousand
pounds into debt. And that old ass — that
old fool — when I was in despair about my
debts he sent me to his bankers with a
large sum of money. He had often sent

me with securities of different kinds, but
not such as I could use ; but in this parcel
were two cheques for large amounts, the
rest all in notes and gold ; and I cashed
the cheques, for it had flashed into my
mind, as I went, that play was a misery
and a bondage, and if I could get away I
could lead a more innocent life, and yet not
have to pay these debts at all."

Don John groaned.

'' Before I had time to think, I had got
home and packed up my clothes. I told
mother, Cottenham had sent me on a
journey for him, and I was off."

But where' s the money, then ? You
did not go. There's yet time, there's yet
hope ; give it to me and let me pay it back.
He might forgive you."

There's no time, and there's no hope.
I've lost it."

'how."

I gave away — I had to give away — a
large part of it, to some fellows who found

me out. Hush-money. Don't yon understand
? "

And the rest ? "

I'm sorry ; it cents me to the heart to
know that the police are after me, and to
dread that I shall be a disgrace to you.
It's gone ; I thought I would risk what
was left, to get perhaps all back, and repay
it ; and I did. I risked, and lost. It's all
gone ; I gambled it away. Oh, I wish I
could die, but I can't. I found out next
that I was followed, and I put on this
disguise."

There's one thing more that I want to
know," said Don John, " and you must tell
it me as carefully and as plainly as you
can, for on it mainly depends my yet being
able to help — "

You can't help, dear boy, as to setting
me right with old Cottenham, so that
I can show my face and not be taken
up."

I want to know about your changing
VOL. III. . L

your name. Your mother said you had
changed your name."

Yes, I called myself John "Ward. 
only knew me as John Ward."

Why did you do that ? "

I suppose because I foresaw — "

Foresaw what ? Are you going to sink
yourself lower yet in this abyss of crime and
disgrace by admitting that you did it with
a view to making a future crime easier ? ' '

Your father is so sensitive," said
Lanceyy, " he would feel any disgrace that
came upon me, as if it was a reflection
upon him, on my education that he gave
me, on my home and my bringing up ;
and so — so I did it in case''

Don John noticed the unusual expression,
your father." Lanceyy had the grace to
feel his position. For the first time in his
life he spoke as if not claiming this father
for himself.

You'll act like a brother to me," he
said, with a heavy, despairing sigh.

^' Yes," answered Don John, '' if it can
be done consistently with acting like a son
towards him.

Lanceyy was surprised; he turned towards
Don John, who was aware that in
the dusk he was scanning him attentively.

"So far," he repeated a little faintly;
and when Don John made no answer he
went on, '^ What I want you to do of
course is to help me cross the water. I
dare not leave off my disguise, but even as
I am I can get to Liverpool begging and
walking ; and if I had money enough from
you, I think I could get over."

•' That would do you no real good. You
are not reformed, not repentant, not aware
of your disgrace, and sin, and misery."

'^ am ! "

You wish you had got over to America
with that money in your pocket."

I tell you I do repent. I am miserable,
I am lost, and I know it."

'' I am going to help you, dear boy, as
L 2

well as I can, but I shall never call sou
Lanceyy again. The only chance of your
not disgracing father and mother and me,
is in what you did for a wicked purpose.
You can be helped as John Ward — unless
the police are too quick for us, and you are
taken up on a charge of felony before I
can see the man whom you wronged."

Only help me over, that is the thing todo.
What can you be thinking of ? Going
to see Cottenham would be bearding the
lion in his den; it would be almost like
betraying me. Surely you don't hope to
make him say that he'll not prosecute, that
he will forgive me. He liked me, I tell
you ; he trusted me though I was almost a
stranger. He cannot forgive me, for he'll
have found out by this time."

Well ? "

There were things of his in my desk,"
whispered Lanceyy.

You're sunk so low — so low, that I — "

I'm not sunk so low that I would do

you any harm," exclaimed Lanceyy. " You
know very well that when mother told us
two that base story at Ramsgate, and you
were so dumb foundered that you couldn't
say a word, I told her to her face that it
was all a lie, and, by Jove, I almost made
her own as much."

You have never taken any advantage,
though you have had every possible advantage
given you with regard to that story."

I know."

Thereupon followed the account of Captain
Leslie's bequests; and Lanceyy listening,
found once more that there was hope for
him, in spite of everything that he had
done to throw himself away.

In a hurry and in a whisper, for Don
John and he did not dare to risk being
found together, the poor young criminal
was told to keep himself in hiding only fora
few days longer ; and as he did not dare
to go to post-offices, and could not tell in
what part of the country he might be, he

was to buy every day a certain penny
paper agreed on between them, and there he
should, in as short a time as possible, find
an advertisement telling him what his
foster-brother had been able to do. In
any case he was always to be John Ward ;
and even if he had the misfortune to betaken
up by the police, in that name he was
to abide his prosecution. And so his disgrace
and punishment would cause no pang
to those who had so loved him ; they would
never know. And on this condition his
foster-brother promised never to forsake
him.

It was nine o'clock when Don John stole
back along the hedge, leaving Lanceyy sitting
under it alone. Don John perceived,
as he turned the matter over in his mind,
that it was the misery and disgrace of the
situation, not the crime he had committed,
that weighed on Lanceyy's heart.

Even if Don John's conscience could
have suffered him to procure the money,

and help Lanceyy over to America to escape
from justice, this would do no real good —
he might be followed there, and the John-stones
might have to suffer. The crime of
this still dear adopted son would be such a
life-long distress and misfortune as almost
to swallow up the sense of his disgrace.

All Don John's determination that
Lanceyy should have none of Captain
Leslie's money melted away. He must beset
right, and the sum he had taken must
be restored, as the only chance of saving
him ; and with this money it must be done,
and no other.

Little more than twelve hours after this,
in a small dusty office in the heart of the
city, a young man sat writing, and opening
his eyes from minute to minute so widely
that he could not see the page. His pen
spluttered — he sighed with excitement ; it
was no use trying to write, he put it down.

In a minute or two a remarkably sweetman's
voice was heard outside, and the

speaker came in and took up a row of
letters, all addressed '' Locksley Cottenham,
Esq."

'Now for it," thought the clerk.

There's — there's somebody upstairs
who wants to speak to you, sir."

What did you show him into my room
for ? " said Locksley Cottenham, Esq.,
frowning.

It was not much of a frown ; the face was
as pleasant as the voice — a round chubby
face, open and smiling ; it did not look
wrinkled, but it was surrounded by perfectly
white hair, as soft as wool.

Did he tell you his business ? "

■'It's not a man at all," answered the
clerk, "it's a young lady."

The clerk felt a certain joy in communicating
this astonishing piece of news.
That it might lose none of its effect, he did
it as abruptly as he could.

Locksley Cottenham, Esq., went slowly
upstairs, his little den door was open, a

worn oilcloth was on the floor, a writing-table
heaped with papers was in the middle,
and there were two chairs, in one of which,
sure enough, sat the young lady.

Oh ! what a pretty young lady ! His
old heart warmed to her at once. What
an air of shyness, and sweet blushing confusion
! What colour might the eyes be
that were veiled by those downcast lashes ?
She gave him time enough to think all this
before ever she lifted them. It was
Charlotte.

She looked at him, and half rose as if to
acknowledge his presence ; then she cast
her eyelids down again. It was a very little
room. He stood in the doorway and said, —

I haven't the pleasure of knowing your
name ? "

Then she spoke, with an air perfectly
sweet and confiding ; it was not he, it was
the circumstances that made her shy.

The friend who brought me said I was
not to tel you any name."

As she spoke she looked at him, and
thought what a nice old gentleman he was.
He was so very chubby ; his face might
almost have been called a sweet face, it had
so much of the child in it.

This parcel," she continued, trying to
untie a piece of pink tape, and not succeeding,
for her hand trembled a little.

He had seated himself in the other
chair, with the table between them.

'' Shall I undo it for you ? "

"Yes," said Charlotte, "and look at
what it contains." She perceived a certain
gravity now in his manner. He did
not seem altogether pleased with her ; butin
a minute or two, while she watched
him, so much depending on what he might
think, she saw the chubby face take on an
air of utter puzzlement and surprise.

''A friend gave you these to show tome
? " he inquired, lifting up some parchments.


"Yes."

Do you know what they are ? "

'' Of course; they are the title-deeds of
a Scotch estate."

The title-deeds of a Scotch estate,
which seems to have been sold by the
executors of the late Eraser Macdonald
to Patrick Leslie. I never heard any
of these names before. What has this todo
with me ? "

The friend who sent them wants to
pay you a sum of money which — no, I am
not saying this aright — he is going to
pay it as soon as possible. He prays
you to keep these title-deeds as security
till he can produce it, and in the meantime,
if you could be merciful and kind."

She looked at him and paused : she observed
that he was startled, and that he
hastily put down the deeds.

It appears that certain things are
understood here which are not expressed,"
he remarked.

"Yes."

Your friend — I need not mention him
by name — "

You do not know his name."

Indeed ! I thought it might be John
"Ward."

JSFo, it is not."

That makes the matter no better —
quite the reverse."

But I want to explain this to you, sofar
as I may."

If I understand you aright, you offer
me money to stop certain proceedings."

That is not at all how my friend expressed
it to me."

'' Perhaps not." He began to tie up
the parcel with its pink tape. " I am very
sorry. I must return these deeds."

You will not consider this again ? you
will not be merciful ? "

You must take the deeds."

He put them into her hand.

Then you will see my friend. I am
sure he can make you understand better

than I have done. We never counted on
your refusing."

I am very sorry for you, my dear
young lady."

But you will at least see my friend ? "

"It is much better that I should not.
1 will send a message to him instead."

Yes. You will advise him how to act,
as this way does not please you. It will
be a kind message, for you look so kind."

She looked at him appealingly, and
when he made no answer, she went on ina
faltering tone, —

Then what am I to say to him ? "

You can ask him if he ever heard of
such a thing as compounding a felony ? "

CHAPTER VIII.

The dusty, smoky sunbeams were shooting
down into Mr. Cottenliam's room
about three o'clock on a warm afternoon,
when his clerk knocked at the door. He
may have been dozing, for he seemed desirous
to show himself more alert, and to
speak a little more sharply, than usual;
while some one was shown in, and the
door shut behind him.

Decidedly I must have been asleep —
bad habit. Don't remember saying this
young fellow was to be shown up — don't
remember what he is come about," thought
Mr. Cottenham. " Can't recall it at all."
He looked at his guest — at Don John,
in fact, remarked his very light hair and
fair complexion, the frank, good-tempered

air, and was sure lie had never seen him
before. He said to himself.

*' A gentlemanly-looking young fellow,
and in no hurry to speak. I see that he
knows I have been napping."

The young man spoke at last, not without
a slight air of deference, which was
very agreeable.

You sent a message to me."

A message ? "

By a young lady."

The smiling, chubby face took on an air
of concern and wonder.

She was to ask me whether I had ever
heard of such a thing as compounding of
felony."

'' Yes."

I am an articled clerk to a lawyer.
Criminal cases are not in his line, but I
have access to the best law-books."

I consider that the young lady, innocently
of course, and in ignorance — " interrupted
Mr. Cottenham.

Pardon me, I come only in reply to
your message, to inform you according to
the best authorities what is meant by compounding
of felony."

Well, well, this is remarkable."

Don John unfolded a sheet of foolscap
paper, on which was some writing in the
round hand of a copying clerk, and began,—


' Compounding of felony is the taking
of a reward for forbearing to prosecute
a felony; and one species of this offence
(known in the books by the more ancient
appellation of theft-base) is where a party
robbed takes his goods again, or other
amend, upon agreement not to prosecute.' "

T thought as much ! "

'' It could not be more clear. Shall I
go on ? ' This was formerly held to
make a man an accessory to the theft,
but is now punished only with fine and
imprisonment.' "

Only ! " ejaculated the listener, " only

with fine and imprisonment. Now what
could possess you, to read all this to me ? '*

It defines the compounding of felony."

*' It defines it very clearly ! I am much
afraid of the law. I have got into the
clutches of the law three times."

That could only have been innocently,
as you said of the young lady, and through
ignorance."

'' You are sure of this ? You don't require
much time for making up your
mind."

I have had time enough already to
feel grieved to think that when a certain
thing is explained and arranged I shall
probably never have the pleasure of seeing
you again in this world, I shall be obliged
to wish indeed that you may never know
even my name."

The round, childlike face took on its
sweetest expression.

'•' Explained and arranged ! Well, well,
the confidence of youth is amazing ! "

VOL. III. M

"There's a good deal more of it," said
Don Join. "This perversion of justice
in the old Gothic constitutions was liable
to the most severe and infamous punishment.
Indeed the Salic law ' la trout
eum simile Habuit, quifurtum^ — "

Stop ! That I will not stand. What
is such jargon to me ? "

I had better go on then to the English,
'And by statute 24 and 25 Dict. c. 96, s.
102 (amended by 33 and 34 Dict. c. 65),
even publicly to advertise a reward for the
return of property stolen or lost, and in
such advertisement to use words purporting
that no questions will be asked;
or purporting that a reward will be paid
without seizing or making inquiry after
the persons producing the same; or promising
to return to a pawnbroker or other
person any money he may have advanced
upon, or paid for such property ; or offering
any other sum of money or reward for
the return of the same : subjects the

advertiser, the printer, and the publisher
to a forfeiture of fifty pounds each.' "

Is that all ? " There was the least
little touch of sarcasm in the tone of
this question.

I could have multiplied authorities, I
could have copied a great deal more, but I
thought that was enough."

I think so too. Compounding of felony
is now very clearly explained ; what I still
fail to understand is the meaning of your
conduct ! I am not expected to consider
it disinterested, I suppose."

"I had something to hope for, of
course."

'' And I should like to know whether,
when you searched through the law-books
for these definitions, you instructed yourself
as to what compounding of felony
was, at the same time that you prepared
to instruct me ? "

Don John for the moment endeavoured
to preserve a stolid expression, but as he
M 2

could not,— as lie felt himself detected, lie
glanced furtively at the round, chubby face,
and then looked again, and seemed to
gather confidence and comfort.

I want to dismiss that subject, now if
you will let me, and mention to you a poor
young man who has behaved very wickedly
to you, and who is very miserable."

'ein short, John Ward. I trusted John
"Ward; I was very kind to him."

"He told me so; it aggravates his
crime. He robbed you of the sum of
three thousand and fifteen pounds and
fifteen shillings."

'' He told you that ! you have seen him
then."

Yes ; he is very miserable. He says
that he deeply repents — "

I am sorry for him, — and for myself, —
and for you."

By a quite unexpected circumstance,
some property was left, on which both he
and his mother thought that he had a

claim; at first his claim was disallowed,
but now it is admitted."

Indeed, indeed. Well, I don't know
what to make of this."

*' I have seen him a second time, and [ am
thankful to say that when I was explaining
to him about this claim, he asked whether
the money would amount to as much as
three thousand and fifteen pounds and
fifteen shillings. I was less miserable
about him after I had heard him say that.
It shows that he really does repent."

'' You are his good friend."

He humbly begs your forgiveness for
what he has done, and he humbly desires to
restore to you by me the whole of the money
that he stole. Here it is." He handed
over the table a parcel neatly sealed.

Here it is," repeated Mr. Cottenham, as
if this unexpected turn of affairs confused
him to the point of leaving him devoid of
any original words. He took up his eyeglass
and leaned over the parcel without

touching it. Then he drew towards him
the paper Don John had read, and carefully
considered that. In the shrewdness
with which he scrutinized it there was
something childlike and simple ; but in the
silent pity with which he turned over the
yet unopened parcel, there was something
that childhood cannot attain.

At last he broke the seal, and slowly
spread out the notes, and opened the little
packet of gold.

Don John's heart danced.

It was a large sum to lose'* muttered
Mr. Cottenham. "And his behaviour cut
me to the heart too. I suppose," he went
on, but not addressing Don John; " I suppose
I cannot be bound to prosecute now ? "

He appeared to fix his eyes on a map
which was hanging on the opposite wall,
and to address his remark to that. " I have
been bitten by the law three times already."

Don John chose out an opposite map,
and in his turn made some cautious remarks.

"A fellow must be prosecuted on
some particular charge, either he is accused
of a crime against the prosecutor, or against
Our Sovereign Lady the Queen.' Now
if a man tried for murder could produce in
court the supposed murdered man, and
prove that he was alive and well — "

The two might walk out of court, arm
in arm, for ought the judge could say !
There was no crime ! "

Or again, a man accused of a robbery,
if he can produce a receipt in full, for the
money in question, cannot be brought to
trial, the intending prosecutor has no charge
to bring against him. Only," continued
Don John, " if writs are out against such a
man, and when he has paid he is arrested
before he has the receipts to show, his
people are liable to be disgraced ; his story
might get wind."

Mr. Cottenham lost himself in cogitation
here, then he said, —

** I shall give John Ward a receipt in

full, and write Hm a short letter by you.
What can I say better than, ' Sin no more,
lest a worse thing happen to thee ' ? You
may trust me to do all I can for you."

He began to write, and having put
a certain stamp at the end of the letter,
handed it to Don John, who received it
with eager joy and fervent thanks.

This has been a great trouble to you,
since you first heard of it."

Yes."

'' So it has to me. I felt that he had
ruined himself, and I had trusted him."

But I felt not only that he was ruined,
but that his trial would disgrace my people.
They know nothing of this, not one words'

'' Well, if it depends on me, they never
shall; for I think they never need. You have
conducted this case very well for your first
client. I suppose I am your first ? "

'' Oh, yes."

'' Father and mother both living ? "

"Yes, both, I thank God."

As doubtless they do for you. It is a
fine thing to have a son. I lost my son —
lie was my only one. I have still a
daughter, about the age, as I think, of that
beautiful young girl whom you sent to me.
She is not your sister, of course."

At this mention of Charlotte, a sudden
change came over Don John's face in spite
of himself. The denial had leaped out of
his eyes before he answered, '' That young
lady is not my sister — no."

If she is in any sense under your
charge, or influence, I cannot but express
a hope that you may never have to send
her on an errand again which has to begin
by her informing the one person present
that she must conceal her name — "

Don John looked up.

I fervently hope that young lady may
never be sent on such an errand again.
Being what she is, and looking what she is,
you could not have thought any evil of
her, for a moment— any evil at all."

"I did not*

And sou being what you are, and
looking what " you are, she could think
nothing but good of you. On what better
errand (if you had understood it) could I
have sent her to you, unless I had sent her
to ask for your blessing ? "

Sir ! no man was ever so acceptably
reproved."

We are not strangers to you, we both
know you by reputation."

"Indeed! there is nothing else that I
can do for you?"

Unless you will shake hands with me'*

Thereupon they parted, and Don John
with the precious receipt buttoned up in
his coat, ran clattering downstairs, and
sped towards the Great Northern Railway,
getting out at a station agreed upon
between the two, and walking about in
search of the poor acrobat. He wandered
through the suburban streets, and stared
into the eating-houses, till he was getting

tired out ; but he did not feel alarmed, for
he knew Lanceyy might have taken fright,
thinking himself watched.

At last he came home.

The next morning before breakfast, his
mother with an ivory paper-knife was
cutting open the newspapers, and laying
them before his father's plate, when
glancing one over, she remarked, " 1
often wonder what some of these queer
advertisements mean. Here is one odder
than usual : ' The acrobat may wash his
face.' "

"I've been told they concern some
smuggling operations ; they are signals it
is thought," said Marjorie, *' signals to
vessels that have smuggled goods onboard."


'' Perhaps the ' Acrobat ' is the name of
one of those vessels," observed Mary.

Perhaps," answered the father carelessly,
and with a smile.

Don John and Charlotte exchanged

glances : that was all wliicli passed. The
talk concerned Marjorie's wedding, which
was to be in three days. The bridegroom
was already in the house, the grandmother
was expected in an hour. The wedding
presents were frequently arriving, and all
was pleasant bustle and cherished confusion.
It was so nice to have so much
to do. Nobody wanted to think about
the parting, especially the bride's father.

But the acrobat made no sign, and one
day, two days, and then the wedding-day
passed over, and still he was not to be
found. Don John wearied himself with
researches under hedges all about Horsey,
and out beyond Barnet ; he had large bills
posted up over walls in waste places, on
hoardings, and outside the railway stations.
"It's all right. The acrobat may wash
his face." A great many eyes became
familiar with that strange announcement,
but apparently not Lanceyy's, and yet Don
John was moderately easy in his mind.

He felt sure Lanceyy lead not been arrested.
Mr. Cottenham would have taken care of
that.

At the wedding everybody behaved very
badly ; almost all wept, some because they
were sorry, some because they were glad,
and some because the others did.

The bridegroom stuck fast in returning
thanks, when his bride's health was drunk.
Her grandmother openly prompted him.
The bride's father stuck fast in remarking
how much he was blessed in his dear
sons and daughters. People will say such
things. This happy remark caused a good
deal of piteous sniffing. The grandmother
prompted him also, but not so audibly ; he
was glad to avail himself of her words,
and then she counselled him to sit down.

The day was hot, and there was an intermittent
downfall of pouring rain. The
bridesmaids' gowns, in spite of awnings,
got wet at the bottom. The rain poured
through openings in a tent which had been

pitched in the field, and splashed into the
bountiful bowls of custard, and weakened
the claret-cup, and cooled the gravy. In
that tent, the inhabitants of " the houses "
were being feasted. The rain was not
held on the whole to be a disadvantage,
because, as some of the guests remarked,
it cooled the air, and made the victuals
seem to go down more sweetly.

At last, in a heavier downfall than ever,
and with more tears, both from gentle
and simple, the bride drove away. The
father shut himself up in his study; the
mother and her little Mary went upstairs
to console themselves together. All the
guests took their leave ; and Naomi and
Mr. Brown, settling themselves comfortably
in a corner of the drawing-room, sat hand
in hand.

There was nobody left in the great
dining-room but the grandmother, Don
John, and Charlotte.

I shall not come up to J^aomi's wedding,"

remarked the former, *' if ye all
mean to go on in this way. I'm quite
ashamed of you ! Charlotte too ; what
had you got to cry for, I should like to
know ? "

It was so affecting," said Charlotte
demurely, and trifling with the flowers of
her bouquet.

*' Affecting ! Yes : your little nose is quite
swelled with crying ! " (Charlotte went
and peeped at herself in a glass) "and
your eyelashes are wet yet. I hope ye'll
behave better when your own wedding-day
comes."

I shall never have one," said Charlotte,
in the same demure fashion, and with a
little smile, which seemed to betoken superior
knowledge.

"What, do ye really mean to tell me
that ye never intend to marry ? "

Oh, no ! " said Charlotte, " I think I
should like to be married. I always have
a theory that I should." She laughed.

*'If anybody that was nice would have

me."

The grandmother sat bolt upright.

'' What ! " she exclaimed rather sharply.

'* I shall not be married, because nobody
wants to marry me," persisted Charlotte,
not the least put out of countenance. " I
never had a lover " (excepting once for a
day or two, and then he changed his mind),
and they think I never shall have."

'' ' They,' repeated the grandmother,
with infinite emphasis ; " and who are they,
I beg to know?"

'' Oh," said Charlotte carelessly, '' Don
John and the girls."

The grandmother looked steadily at Don
John, and he appeared confused.

Don John said it, did he ? said ye had
no lover ! I thought he knew better ! "

Charlotte had not eaten much breakfast,
and was dipping some ripe strawberries
into the sugar, and eating them with bread.
"But I forgot," she continued, *' that we

mean to call him laird now, Marjorie
made us promise not to forget. Laird, shut
the door."

He may hold it open a moment for me
first," said the grandmother, rising, and
slightly tossing her head — there were a
good many feathers in the wedding-bonnet,
and they wagged as she walked. She
laughed when she reached the door, but
before it was shut behind her she was
heard to murmur, —

'' No lover has she. Well, I thought ye
knew better, I did indeed."

VOL. III. If

CHAPTER IX.

She means Lance j," exclaimed Charlotte,
and I do think " — Don John had come np
to her by this time — " I do think, considering
what friends we have always been, and
considering how I have helped you about
him, you ought not to let her suppose it."
She put her hand to her throat. '' No, I
am not going to cry again ; but two or three
times grand mamma has hinted at this kind
of thing to me, and remembering all the
piteous truth, I feel as if her thinking of
him as my lover was almost a disgrace tome,
and that was why I was so anxious to
tell her that I had no lover."

She did not mean Lanceyy," said Don
John.

Charlotte had finished her strawberries.

She must have meant Lanceyy," she
answered, " for there's nobody else."

The grandmother had much exaggerated
the traces of tears. Charlotte had never
looked so lovely in her life. That may
have been partly because she had never
been so beautifully adorned before. The
shimmering white silk set off her dark hair,
and there was lace round her throat, from
which it rose like a small alabaster column,
and then the rosebuds in her bouquet, how
they matched the hues of her mouth ! and
it softened, and the dimple came in her
cheek.

Look," she exclaimed, pointing into
the garden, and there was the grandmother
marching about among the dripping flowers,
with a certain air of determination, '' shells
quite cross still."

Yes ; but not with you. Do not be
vexed. She did not mean Lanceyy."

Then whom could she mean ? "
N 2 ■

*' A mere nobody ; for as you have said
(and I deserve it), ' there is nobody else'* "

'' Don John ! "

She meant me."

All the sweetest changes that Charlotte's
face was capable of came into it then.
She pouted as one cogitating, and her
long lashes drooped, then she blushed — it
was that real old-fashioned maiden blush,
which is rather rare now, and so exquisitely
beautiful that when seen under such interesting
circumstances it can never be
forgotten.

She sat down on a sofa in the corner of
the room, where she could not be seen
from the garden, and quickly recovering
herself, began, " Then go to her at once, of
course, and say — "

Yes ; what may I say ? "

I ought not to have been told this at
all," said Charlotte, in a tone not quite free
from reproof. '' It is your affair to find out
how to say — that she is mistaken."

'but lie is not mistaken."

No ! "

Charlotte had got the corner of the sofa,
and looked forth from it. Under such circumstances
people cannot sit side by side ;
but Don John sat as near to her as he
could.

'No ? " she murmured again, almost ina
whisper, and she lifted up her eyes, and
looked into his, which denied and denied
that there was any mistake, in a fashion
more convincing than words.

Just for a moment she felt as if a kiss
was impending. Don John did not kiss
her. He thought that was owing to his
own new-born modesty, deference, and devotion,
and did not know that she had
already made him remote from her lips.
He wanted to take her hand, but she
scarcely let him hold it for an instant.
Even at that pass it flashed into his recollection
how often in their childhood he had
lent her his own pocket-handkerchief to

dry her fingers on, when they were inked.
All was different now, and he must make
the best of the change. It would seem
so natural to go down on his knees — but
would she laugh at him? On one knee —
but would she laugh at him ? He started
up on his feet, and burst forth with his
love, and his entreaty, that she would not
remember his boyish impertinence, and
before he knew what he was about, he was
on one knee, and the door being suddenly
flung open, his. grandmother entered. She
was heard to utter a short laugh, and she
hastily withdrew.

Don John sprang to his feet. He and
Charlotte looked at one another, and they
both laughed also. Charlotte as overcome
by a surprising and absurd incident, Don
John as one who accused his fate.

He had been pleading with her for a
rose-bud — only one, out of her bouquet—
and Charlotte had been so taken by surprise,
that she knew not what to do. But

she was mistress of the situation now, new
as it was to her.

'' Come and sit down here," she entreated.
" Let us be our old selves again,
and tell me what this means."

But he still wanted the rose-bud, that he
might get her hand to kiss, and when she
withdrew it, she looked at it as if it
might be changed.

All this is very amazing," she began ;
and repeated, " Let us be our old selves
again."

"I cannot be my old self; I love you."
He looked down : her little feet in their
white satin shoes peeped forth, and
seemed to nestle on the carpet, he thought,
like two young doves ; but of course he
had the sense not to say this, he knew she
would laugh at him if he did.

But I meant that I want you to explain
what all this means. You always had a
theory, you know, which — which I thought
a very sensible one," said Charlotte,

suddenly giving her sentence a fresh
form.

Don John heaved up a great sigh*
Yes, I know I have chiefly my own
insolence and folly to thank, if you cannot
understand or believe me."

"At any rate there's no occasion to be
so melancholy about it," said Charlotte ;
and then, overcome by the absurdity of
this sudden change in her old comrade,
she burst into a delightful little laugh,
which was quite irresistible.

Pon John could not possibly help seeing
how ridiculous the thing was as regarded
in the light of his whole former conduct,
and the two young creatures laughed
together, both at themselves, and at the
irony of fate.

I never would have believed it of you'*
exclaimed Charlotte, recovering herself.

'' It's poetical justice done upon me."

I suppose it is."

"I deserve it."

I had not reached to the point of
thinking so ! "

But what are sou going to do with
me?"

"Do with you ! " exclaimed Charlotte,
laughing again.

Yes. You make me laugh, but it's no
laughing matter. If you only knew. Don't
you think yoa can say — something ? "

Something appreciative ? " suggested
Charlotte, when he paused. "Yes, laird;
I can say that your property becomes you
vastly in the giving of it away. I can
say that this must certainly have been a
pleasant day to you, for you have got
uncle out of a pecuniary scrape, made
Marjorie happy, and are going to do as
much for Naomi. I did say the other
morning that I thought you had grown
better-looking. I now see the reason of
it; your bosom was glowing with virtue
and generosity ; you pose before my
mind's eye as on your first return I saw

you— classically bundled up in your new
plaid, and smoking your cigar like a sort
of Scotch Apollo."

'rit was only right you should know I
had parted with that two thousand pounds.
You, and only you ! "

Charlotte blushed ; the hint was rather
a strong one.

I shall have something much more
difficult to tell you soon."

'' Don John ! "

"Well?"

It's not at all becoming to you to be
tragical. You cannot have forgotten that
in our charades you never would do the
tragic parts ; because, as you said, a
fellow to act tragedy well ought to have a
Roman nose."

'' But I am not acting now."

*' No; I never meant to insinuate anything
of the sort. But look how the sunshines
and glitters on the wet roses, don't
you think if you were to take a cigar and

go out, and think this over, you would
come back in a different humour ? "

I am always thinking it over."

Since how long ? "

Since I came home from Scotland the
first time, and you met me — waiting forme
at the green gate — don't you remember
? "

*' Remember ! No. Why, that's months
ago."

You leaned on the green gate — and I
saw you."

I always lean on the green gate. It
couldn't be that."

'' I saw how beautiful you were, and
how sweet — and — I loved you."

"All on a sudden?"

"Yes."

But what for ? "

What for ! ! "

It was not for anything in particular,
then ? "

It was for everything in general. I

am always finding out more reasons f of
loving you. If you send me out to walk
among the rose-trees I shall find them in
the shadows at their roots, and in the
rain-drops that they shake from their
buds. All the reading in the book of my
life is about you, and the world outside
tells me of you. Things fair and young
and good I must needs love, because they
are like you ; there is pity in me, and I
find a pathos in what is unlovely and old,
because it is unlike."

Extraordinary ! "

'' Don't be unkind, Charlotte."

Oh, no."

So many charms in one small face —
such dimples and blushes, and shy dropping
of black lashes, and such a whimsical
pathos, and almost tenderness — when she
was not laughing at him — were hardly
ever seen before.

Don't you think you could afford me
one kiss, Charlotte ? '*

Certainly not."

But you will think of all this — you are
not displeased?"

Displeased ! I always used to think
nothings was so interesting as — "

"As love — such love as this — as
mine ? "

Yes ; and so I think still. Nothing
can be so interesting, in the abstract ! "

Well, you might at least let a fellow
kiss your hand ; I never heard of a lover
yet who was not allowed to do that."

If it were any other ' fellow ' — but
you ! Don't be so ridiculous*'

It's cruel of you to make game of
me."

And yet I love you better than any
excepting Aunt Es telle, and my uncle and
mother. I liked you, I believe, better
than any one at all till now."

'' Liked me best. Oh, do tell me what is
the difference between that and loving ? "

'' People whom we like are those

who (we suppose) will never astonish
us; people whom we are not obliged to
explain things to, because they know;
people whom we perfectly trust — they are
partners, comrades, friends."

'' You like me less now ? "

Perhaps so, laird."

"It is my belief that your poetic mind
eschews with distaste the notion of prosperity
; if a fellow has, as you think, all he
wants in this world, he is less interesting
to you."

'' That is not impossible."

"And it is nothing to me. Not that I
allude to Captain Leslie's bequest. Between
Lanceyy and the girls, I have despoiled myself
already of most of the money, and I
shall not have the land much longer."

What can you mean, Don John ? "

Why you knew that I had parted with
enough money to set poor Lanceyy straight.
You helped me to do it, my lady and
queen."

'* But the land?"

** Ah ! yes, the land ; there's the rub.
You have always thought of me as rather
a jolly fellow, haven't you ? Not a fellow
that had ever known misfortune, or had
anything weighing on his mind."

The rose hue faded out of Charlotte's
face now, and by absence helped its new
expression to a deeper emphasis.

"When you were ill," she began, "I
thought you had something on your mind.
My heart ached for you. I felt that you
must have some sorrow clouding your nights
and days. Even when you were getting
better, I often saw it come over like a dark
cloud to veil out all the sunshine."

And you lilied me then, better than
any one, and understood — "

No, I did not understand; for I could
not help thinking, that in some way it had
to do with Lanceyy, and your distress at
his going wrong."

It had something to do with Lanceyy."

Lanceyy, and this place here, and their
love for him, and yours, have been wonderful
to me all my life ; but at least he can
have nothing to do with this strange thing,
that I thought you said about Captain
Leslie's land. You cannot possibly want
to give that to him ? "

Certainly not, and yet it has to do
with him, that I cannot keep it for myself."


"You make him more important than
ever' said Charlotte faltering, and obviously
shrinking from she knew not
what.

But he became ten times more important
after I got better, after I had seen
you leaning on the green gate, and you
had told me about his trying to make
you like him, and of his mother's entreaties.
I thought indeed for a long time that you
did care for him. Till in fact you went
with me to offer old Cottenham the title-deeds
as a pledge. Then I knew for the

first time that you did it for all our sakes
rather than for his."

'' Lanceyy is at least not going to have
that estate."

"No; nor I either."

'amazing! Oh, my uncle is no doubt
in debt more than we had thought."

No ; nothing of the sort. Mother is
going to tell you why."

Your mother ! Aunt Estelle. Why
should she tell me ? "

Because it might concern you."

Charlotte blushed and flushed, and the
dimple went away into hiding. '' Aunt
Estelle," she repeated; "but how should
she know ? "

How should my mother not know ?
Could she see me day by day, and never
divine that I loved you? She always
knows without being told what concerns
the happiness of her children."

And she consented to — "

"She proposed to tell you several things.

VOL. III.

She said I ought not to ask you to be my
wife till you knew them."

"AuntEstelle?"

'' Yes ; whether you can ever love me, or
whether you cannot, you will always love
mother ten times more when she has told
your's

a minute, let me think."

Don John had no objection. He leaned
over the end of the sofa. He knew all
the expressions of Charlotte's face — the
beautiful pouting mouth, and shining
tender eyes. How she pondered and
wondered!

'' There really is something ? " she sighed
at last.

"Yes, really."

"And I cannot catch the remotest
glimpse of it." But the mother's knowledge,
and the mother's apparent sanction,
gave a strange, sweet surprise and reality
to the thing.

True love it was evident had come near

her. She foresaw that there would soon
be a response to it ; but she thought most of
the mother, her aunt who had brought her
up, and been so loving to her. It was
manifest that nothing could be denied to
her ; but how amazing that she should be
brought into the story. '' I cannot make
it out," she exclaimed.

No."

Then remembering how she had laughed
at this mother's son, and teazed him, and
denied him the small comfort of a drooping
rose-bud, she went on, —

But Don John, if you will let me tell
you beforehand exactly what it means, I
think after all I had better give you that
kiss."

Oh, yes ! do tell me then what it is to
mean."

First, it is to be for the past, for a
parting with all the old yesterdays. We
used to be such friends, and I am glad we

were."



Tell me the rest, and give it me."

I knew so little of my mother. I
always loved yours best of all. There was
something more, bnt I forget it."

But give me the kiss."

Yes."

CHAPTER X.

After, all, when we read the parable of
the Prodigal Son, we find him for all his
faults more interesting than that blameless
brother who was at work in his father's
field.

It was now twelve days after the wedding.
In a small bare room, on a truckle
bed, a poor disfigured patient was lying.
A medical man without touching, leaned
towards him, and regarded him with
attention. He gave directions to two
women, one of whom was seated on either
side of the bed, then said, before retiring,
He'll do now. You'll do very well now,
my poor fellow. Do you hear me ? "

The patient assented, but scarcely inarticulate

words, and presently dozed
again.

After he lead taken some food, and had
his pillows altered to his mind, he began
to look about him with interest and attention,
specially to look at the face of his
elder nurse, a simple and rather foolish
face, but full of goodwill.

"I should like to see myself in a glass,"
he presently said.

"There aunt a glass in the house, my
pore young man," she answered. " It's
an empty house that you was brought
into."

"What is it that has been the matter
with me ? " he next asked.

Well, it's what they call an eruptive
fever," said the younger woman.

"Is it infectious ? "
;, "Yes, it is; but it's my business to
.nurse such cases." »

I thank you for your goodness to me."

"You should thank God, my pore boy,"

said the other, " that He has made some of
us with a king for such a business."

That's my aunt, Miss Jenny Carbon,"
said the younger ; '' I had to have somebody
here to cook, and wait, and help ; so she
came."

For the love of God," explained Miss
Jenny.

The patient sighed distressfully. " Then
I am not to have a glass ; but if 1 tell
you that I hope my face is very much
changed, you'll let me know whether it is,
or not, won't you ? "

My poor young man, we don't ask you
why you should want it to be changed;
but I may say, that though you'll be like
yourself again some day, your own mother
wouldn't know you now, though she should
look at you hard."

"I'm thankful," said the patient faintly ;
but whether for his present disfigurement,
or for the promise of recovery, did not
appear.

The younger nurse now retired to take
some rest. The patient for awhile was
very still. He looked about, but there
was little in the room for his eyes to rest
on. The clean ceiling and the sloping walls,
were whitewashed and bare. A small
green blind was hung before the curtains
window. There was nothing to look
at but his nurse, and he contemplated her
till the circumstance attracted her attention,
and the simple creature was a little
put out of countenance : for she had a
clean, but exceedingly shabby, old print
gown on, which was patched in various
places. She actually began to explain.

It's a one as I've kept for cleaning,
and washing days. I've respectable things
for going to my chapel in."

Anything is good enough for me. Miss
Jenny," said the patient gently. "Won't
you draw the other chair nearer, and put
your feet on the spoke to rest them ? "

I will, my pore young man. Now you

can talk so as to be understood, I warrant
there's not much of the tramp on your
tongue."

*' I was only a tramp, because I've
thrown myself away."

*' That's a sad hearing."

I heard you pray by my bed, when you
thought I should die."

There was little else to be done for

you."

And you said I was a poor lost
creature."

'we're all lost till Christ finds us—
Jesus Christ, the Saviour of the world."

Till Christ finds us — yes — but I have
tried hard to prevent Him from finding me.
I have tried to hide myself from Him under
the darkness of a great many evil deeds."

You talk very faint and very hollow.
I may not let you go on, and I'll only say
this, my pore lad, that if nobody else will
have anything to say to you, and you are
so lost that you have nothing but misery

DON JOHN.

to call your own, why then lie still and
wish (for you're too weak to pray), wish
that He may find you, and He will, for
you are the right sort for Him."

There were many days of pain and sickness
after this ; there were many drawbacks,
and sometimes it almost seemed as
if the poor young patient would sink.

Who's going to pay for all this ? " he
one day asked.

"You've no call to think of that,"
answered the younger nurse, " for there's
nothing asked for from you, John Ward."

John Ward sighed; how could he tell
that he ever should be able to repay this
money. During the first stages of his illness,
which had come on suddenly, he had
been delirious ; he was lying under a hedge
wet with dew, and ghastly with smeared
paint and whitewash, when a policeman
found him. He had some recollection of
this, and that he had been able repeatedly
to make known his wish that a penny paper

iniglit be bought for him. Of course no
notice was taken of this request ; but his
intervals of sense for several days were
spent in repeating it ; and even after he
became so weak and confused that he by
no means knew himself what he had
wanted it for, he could often be soothed
by having some old piece of newspaper put
into his hand, when he would fumble over
it, and guard it jealously. Thus his desire
for a newspaper was always regarded by
these women as a proof of delirium, and one
of his worst symptoms.

Of course, though they did what was
right by him and never left him, his sickbed
was not surrounded by those delicate,
attentive cares that he would have had
if he had been in the midst of a loving,
cultured family. Nobody tried to find
out a meaning in his fancies, or made experiments
to discover whether this one or
that would please him. So when he was
a little better and again approached the

subject of the papers, lie was cut short by
the remark that the doctor would by no
means let them go to the book-stalls fresh
from the sick-room ; for the doctor was a
very conscientious gentleman, and particular
to prevent the spread of infection.

As you jnaj sedges' Miss Jenny would
say, " when you see saucers here and
saucers there full of Contes Fluid that
costs a pretty penny ; and that he doesn't
grudge you, my pore young man, more
than if it was water."

Miss Jenny finding herself for the very
first time in her life in a position of
authority, took advantage of it, and seemed
to rise to it strangely. She gave John
Ward a good deal of advice, and he listened
to it, wide as it was of the mark, with
wonder and interest. It was advice suited
to an acrobat and a tramp. Such she
thought him. That this should be possible
was a thing so piteous as to give it often
a keener edge than any satire ; but then

she would go on in her simplest fashion to
teach some of the most comforting doctrines
of our faith. John Ward had heard
these all his life, and yet they seemed
new now. It is only those who have
known what it is to be lost who can truly
long to be found. He listened, and was
comforted. The Saviour does not often
walk in high places. John Yard, who
knew himself to be a disgrace, and felt
that he was wretched, had been cast out as
the unclean thing, and lying in the dust
had met with Him.

He was sitting up in bed for the first time
when his nurse thus let him know that he
had been dependent on charity. His head
had been shaved again during his illness.

'' And those wretched callicoes and
that sash and wig of yours were burnt
because of infection," she continued ; '' but
see what good friends have been raised up
for you, they are going to make a gathering
for you at our chapel to get you some

decent second-hand clothes and a pair of
shoes so soon as you are strong enough
to wear them.

Her brother," said Miss Jenny, indicating
her niece, " is a waiter, and waits
in the best of families, so jou^ll sedge that
he has to wear good clothes in his calling.
That white shirt you have on is an old one
of his."

"Yes," said the niece; "he gave it tome
for you, being fine and fitter for a sick
patient than the coarse things they sell in
the slop-shops. And he says he'll give
you a waistcoat when you go out, one that
he has done with."

John Ward cast his eyes on the frayed
wristbands of his shirt. If ever in his life
he had felt shame for himself it was then.
I am very much obliged to your brother
that is a waiter," he said, with the peculiar
gentleness of intonation that he always
used towards his nurses.

Miss Jenny was about to depart home.

The patient could now be very well attended
to by one person. She talked of
her sister, who was a respectable dressmaker,
and always paid her way, and then
of the Johnston. Not, of course, as the
poor speak of the rich to the rich — but as
they speak to one another — " My sister,
Mrs. Carbon,' and ' Johnston's ^Dcople,'
that live at the great house."

What a pang it gave poor John Ward
to hear these familiar names, and feel himself
remote !

'' Well, good-bye j aunt," said the niece,
you're not to shake hands with the patient
now you're dressed, nor go nigh him."

I'm truly obliged to her," said John
Ward.

*' How respectable and how well you
look in that Sunday gown," continued the
niece. " And nobody knows what a deal
of use you've been to me."

'' Kept up your spirits, did I, dear ? "
answered Miss Jenny complacently.

"No, I don't sap that," replied the
niece ; " I never feel my spirits half so good
as when I've got a right down bad case,
that' anybody else might be afraid to come
near; nor so well in my health neither."

'' It's a providence," replied Miss Jenny ;
and as for my pore nerves, I don't know
where they're gone to, since here I came."

So then she nodded to John Ward, and
was gone. He might not send any message
by her : shame and probable danger to
himself prevented that. He laid himself
down again and cried feebly. Then his
nurse gave him food.

Don't you take on," she said, " it's
bad for you."

But I don't seem to get well," said the
poor fellow.

Get well," she repeated with the merciless
directness always used by the poor
to those of their own class, " there's a deal
to be done before you get well."

What's to be done ? "

Why, for one thing, there's your skin
to come off — when you see it coming off
your hands and face in bits as big as
sixpences you'll know you're getting well."

John Ward inquired whether the process
would hurt him much.

•' JSTot a bit," she replied ; '' but I may
tell you for your own comfort that the
parish authorities are very particular in
this union ; they'll keep you here, and let
you have the best of food till that's over.
In shorfc, they won't let you go — or every
lodging-house you went and slept in you'd
spread the infection, and that would soon
raise the rates."

John Ward perceived that he was a
pauper, and felt it. Also he felt that
charity, at least national charity, was largely
indebted to enlightened self-interest.

"As cold as charity" has become a
proverb; he was guarded here, and lodged
and fed, as he was informed, because by
coming out he might raise the rates.

vol. III. P

And how thankful that ought to make
you," she continued; "all your meals
coming up as regular as can be, and
there's a gathering to be made, to buy
you clothes, and you've time to think
upon your ways."

John Ward was not at all thankful to
the parish authorities ; but he did much
relish his meals, simple as they were, and
for many an hour he did lie still and think
upon his ways.

With a certain humbleness and simplicity
he tried to pray. The chapters iu the
Bible that his nurse read to him appeared
fresh and interesting ; the words were
familiar, but they meant something new,
and her homely comments, which seemed
to take for granted that he had broken
almost all the commandments of the Decalogue,
did not rouse in him any resentment.
It was all true, truer than she
thought ; the wonder was that even now
even yet, there might be found a remedy.

And so the hours and days went on,
till at last, a poor, hollow-eyed young man,
lie went forth from the cottage where he
had been nursed, with a benefaction of
two shillings in his pocket, and an ample
meal of meat and bread tied up in a
pocket-handkerchief, for the gathering at
Little Bethel had provided even this last
article.

He had a loud, hollow cough, and with
faded eyes he surveyed his grotesque
habiliments — one of the waiter's old coats,
very white at the seams, a shirt and hat
contributed by the preacher, and trousers
a world too wide for him ; also a pair of
new boots, of strong workmanship, and
heavy with hob-nails. He must spend
the half of his money in sending a telegram,
and before he reached the station
he saw, torn and faded, and not perfect
in any case, the token he longed for.
On hoardings and walls, and on empty
houses, glaring and disreputable portions

of it greeted him everywhere. His heart
leaped with joy once more, and echoed
the words, —

"It's all right; the acrobat may wash
his face."

He doubted awhile in sheer delight, and
spelt over the disjointed sentence ; but afc
last he found a perfect copy, and creeping
into the railway station, sent his telegram,
and rested on a bench to await the
event.

His troubles now were soon over. In
less than an hour Don John appeared.
Lanceyy was very quiet, very humble; he
could say little more than that he had
been extremely ill, and he was thankful
to be taken in hand, decent lodging found
for him, and proper clothes bought for
him; then, weak as he was, shaken by
his cough, and ashamed of the pauper
position that he had just emerged from,
he asked to know nothing but that he
"was safe from prosecution, and laid himself

on his bed, leaving Don John to da
and say what he pleased.

So he was left to rest and food, and his
own salutary and bitter reflections. He
did not betray much emotion the next day,
when his foster-brother gave him old 's
letter; but he wept when he was
told how anxious the Johnston had been
at his disappearance. They often said it
was certain he had gone to America, but
no suspicion of his crime had ever crossed
their minds. They hoped he would write
soon to them. So far so good ; his crime
had been condoned, and had caused them
neither misery nor disgrace, and of his
sufferings they had not known. But what
next ? Could it be right, or would it be
possible to bring him under their roof
again ? Fortunately the deciding of this
was not left to Don John.

Lanceyy had no sooner found himself
alone, than he had written a letter to '' his
mamma," setting forth that he had been

extremely ill, and giving her his address
with directions to come to him. He
directed the letter to her old lodgings in
■vrhich he had left her. He knew nothing
of her visit to Scotland, or her wish to
follow him to America.

Fortunately for her, Don John's advice,
that she should wait in England for tidings
from Lanceyy, had taken some effect on her
mind.

She felt that if he did not want her, he
would take care she did not find him,
whether she followed him or not; but if
he did want her he would certainly write
to her at the only address he knew. So,
after waiting awhile in the north, she came
back as cheaply as she could, took a
garret in that same house, and waited
g-nd hoped. '

At last a letter came ; and he was close
at hand.

She hastened to him, bringing with her
the few clothes he had not taken with him

when lie went on this nefarious errand.
She was much shocked at his appearance
and his cough, but there was Httle for
them to talk about. He merely told her
that he had had a dreadful illness, which
he had entirely brought upon himself.
She saw that he was humbled, and that
all the spirit seemed to have gone out of
him ; but he said little more, and never
complained.

I wish you had another suit," she said,
holding up a dress-eat, '' for that one you
have on seems rather heavy for yon this
weather."

"I have another," he answered, "a
whole suit, I left in the box in our old
play-room at ' the house.' "

Then ask Mr. Don John to send it

you."

'perhaps I shall some day; he has
enough trouble with me just now."
And how did it come there ? "
Lanceyy seemed confused, and did not

tell lier how, in the middle of a summer
night, tramping down from Liverpool, he
had reached that once-beloved home, and
wandered about in the garden; then,
knowing it, and where everything was
kept so well, had got the longest fruit-ladder
and put it against the play-room
window, which was open, and there, the
better to hide himself, had put on the
wretched clothes and the wig, in which
he had been found, and had folded up his
own clothes and put them into the box.
The rubbish in which they had been used
to array themselves when they acted their
charades ! He put on the worst of it.
There was bread in the room ; Mary had
been having her supper ; he took the loaf,
went cautiously down the ladder, and
replaced it, then filled his pockets with
fruit, and went his way.

CHAPTER XI.

When Mrs. Ward heard that Lanceyy still
had property at '' the house," she was at
once tempted to make that an excuse forgoing
there, claiming it, and giving her
own view of matters to Mrs. John-stone.


Mr. Johnston and Don John would be
away ; it seemed such a good opportunity
for wringing the other woman's heart, by
describing Lanceyy' s cough — talking of his
sufferings, how he had been picked up
under a hedge, and how, if he had died, he
would have had a pauper's funeral.

Lanceyy was generally kind to her, he
was even glad of her company ; but when
she told him of this project, he was exceedingly

angry, and desired that she would
do nothing of the kind.

'' You were always promised a share of
everything," she grumbled, " and it is my
belief that they are forgetting all that, and
you too."

If they can forget my past, the better
for their own peace," sighed Lanceyy, "and
as to my share, I have had it already. I
was never promised a certain sum. I was
only promised a certain proportion of the
family possessions'' .

"And you have had nothing yet' she
answered, " but just your bringing up."

Yes, I have. I have had three thousand
pounds from Don John."

"Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Ward. "I
thought — yes, I'll allow that I thought — it
was bluster and vapouring, when he said
that on. your account he should keep his
hands from touching Captain Leslie's fortune.
Three thousand pounds ! "Wherever
is it, then ? You told me we were living

on money Mr. Don Jolin sent to you —
living as I thought from hand to mouth. ;
but if it's on the interest of three thousand
pounds, I call that handsome, and I don't
feel that it's at all the same thing."

She laid down her work and pondered.

Three thousand pounds ! " Lanceyy
having justified Don John, felt too weak
to enter on his own terrible story, and he
let her alone. Many bitter and salutary
thoughts had possession of his breast ; and
when she added, " And yet it might be — :
I mean it may be — that you've a right to
aU— "

"You don't think so, you are sure of
the contrary," Lanceyy burst out roughly.

Yes, my blessed boy, that I am."

And yet you're not at all thankful for
this three thousand pounds, this great sum
of money, which has saved me from a trial
for felony — from becoming a wretched
convict."

Don't talk so wild," she answered

soothingly. '' You are as weak as can be
still. It's too much for you." •

God forgive you, and me too," muttered
Lanceyy, fretted almost beyond endurance
by the knowledge that he had not
strength to tell her all.

"It is you who talk wildly, mamma,"
he began. " It makes me sick to hear
such nonsense. "We cannot both have a
claim to all"

No, I allow that," she answered, as if
it was a great concession.

Well it's their own doing that has
made me talk and think wild about it".
She presently added, " They treated you
both exactly alike."

But they loved me the most," said
poor Lanceyy, with something like a faltering
in his voice. " I always felt and knew
that though they were just, I was the
favourite ; nothing could have been done
more for me."

And then you had me to be fond of

3"0u as well," said Mrs. Ward, " as soon
as I'd set mj eyes upon you in the field, a
pretty little fellow, jumping and shouting,
I loved you so as nothing could be like
it."

Lanceyy did not appear to notice the
appealing tone in which this was said, he
went on, —

'rit is only of late years, since I have
gone on so that they could not have me
with them, that I have felt I was becoming
less and less to them all, and Don John
more and more."

But you had me," she repeated.

Yes," he answered, with unconscious
indifference'; and when he saw presently
that tears were dropping on her hand, so
that she could not see her work, he said
fretfully, —

'' Oh, mamma, don't."

I often think you don't care for me a
bit," she replied, with the short, sobbing
sigh of a sick heart.

I feel so weak," said poor Lanceyy, trying
to put off a discussion. " Isn't it time
.1 had my stuff?"

She got up and poured him out his
tonic, and as she handed it him she went
on, —

^'YouVe often made me feel, in particular
of late, that you're only willing I
should live with you because it's a conveniency
to yourself."

"Don't cry, mamma," said Lanceyy, a
little touched.

I'd rather by half that you'd reproach
me and tell me it's all my own fault (if
you'd be like a son to me at other times)
than treat me so cold as you do."

"You'll not love me so well when you
know all," Lanceyy began, but he stopped
short, for his conscience, and even his
heart, told him that this would make no
difference.

She hardly heeded ; taking his self accusation
merely for an acknowledgment of

gaining debts, and delinquencies yet more
to be deplored but not punishable bj any
human law.

Besides," he went on, much more
gently, " what would be the good of reproaching
you with its being your own
fault ? Why that is what makes you feel
it so keenly and be so bitter about it.
Mother was not bitter ; I am sure she did
not feel it half so much. You have had
the worst of it every way. But anyhow I
am not the fellow that has any right to
find fault. I could not have had more if I
had been their own son, and if I had not
been yours you could hardly have had
less."

"It's true. I have had the worst of
it."

And I am often sorry for you."

Still the remonstrance though said
gently, was not to her mind. Sh vent
on, having checked her tears, —

But as you never doubt I'm your

mother, no more than I do, I wonder sou
don't love me more."

I like you. Well, I love you as well as
I can," said Lanceyy fretfully.

'i'm often afraid that when you get
better you'll be off again, and leave your
poor mother. It will break my heart assure
as can be if you do."

I promise you that I never will."

'' They'll invite you to stay at the house
for change of air — I know they will — and
then you'll forget me again."

I do not think Don John will ever let
me go there again."

'' What ! set himself up against you ! —
and pretend to order you? "

'' And if he does allow it, I am not sure
that I shall think I ought to go."

You speak quite solemn, my Lanceyy ! "
she exclaimed, looking at him with alarm.

But you'll stand by me, I have no
doubt," continued Lanceyy; "and I begin
to think, mamma, that I have behaved

badly to you. I'm pleased (now 1 consider
it), to know that it's natural you
should be fond of me. I don't mind
kissing you — "

Remarkable speech, but quite to her
mind; he raised himself up, and turned
his hollow cheek to her.

He had always greatly objected to her
bestowing on him this form of caress.
There he drew the line.

Mrs. Ward rose, and carefully drying
her face with her handkerchief availed
herself of the present gracious proposal.
She kissed him ; and he kissed her, almost
for the first time, and then, exhausted, laid
himself down to rest, and to consider.

He had hitherto so much despised her ;
she had proved herself to be a mean and
sordid person, without principle, and indeed
without common honesty; still she
was a great deal better than himself, as ho
now discovered.

When he was a little better he asked

VOL. III. Q

her to read him a chapter in the Bible.
It was characteristic of Lanceyy, now that
he felt himself to be much changed, that
he should think of this Bible-reading as
likely to improve her ; for his own part he
was improved.

She took the book, but she turned
white even to the lips. " You don't think
you're going to die, my only dear."

Oh, no ! "

This seems like it though."

We were always brought up to think
a great deal of the Bible," said Lanceyy,
they were always teaching us things in
it."

But you told me you hated those puritanic
ways."

I did then ; but now those things comfort
me, and seem to do me good."

'' Oh, well, if it's only that, my Lanceyy,
and if you're sure you are not going to
die." Thereupon she found the place he
mentioned and read to him for some time.

And what did you think of it," asked
Lanceyy, not without a certain gentleness, as
she closed the book. He had chosen chapters
that he thought might be useful to her.

"I was so taken up with thinking of
your poor father, I could not attend to the
reading much."

Oh, what about my father ? "

"When he was on his death-bed he
asked me to read to him just as you did ; I
was that terrified that I ran down to the
lodger below us. ' Mercy, Mrs. Airdd,' said
she, ' what now ? how white you look ! ' so
I told her. She was a play-actress of the
lower sort, and not a good-living woman ;
in short, Lanceyy didn't like my having anything
to say to her. ' I cannot do it,' said
I, ' it frightens me so.' ' Nonsense,' said
she, ' I'll go and read to him as soon as
look at him ; he will die none the sooner for
it.' Well, if that woman didn't go up as
bold as brass and read to him, as if she'd
been a saint. He died the dav after."
Q 2

It was of decline, was it not ? "

Yes, mj Lanceyy."

Did his cough sound like mine ? "

Don't say such heart-breaking things
to me; you'll be all right soon."

But did it ? "

'' Well, it did."

There now, you need not cry. As the
play-actress ' said, I shall die none the
sooner for knowing this."

What with you making me read the
bible to you, and then talking about your
poor father, you've quite overcome me,"
she exclaimed, starting up, and she went
into her little bes-room to recover herself,
for Lanceyy hated a scene.

And almost as she went out, the other
mother came in, and Don John behind
her.

She came in calm, tender, observant, and
sat down beside his couch, taking him in
her arms, and holding his head with her
hand for a minute upon her bosom.

*' Mother' said Lanceyy, ''I am not
worthy that you should come to me."

She did not contradict him, but releasing
one hand, wiped away her quiet tears.

I have never been worthy of you —
never," continued Lanceyy. "And all my
faults and my sins against you and father
seem much worse now that I feel how I have
sinned against Grot." She arranged his pillows
again and let him lie down on them.

Don John had been looking out of the
window, he now came forward to say,
'' Father and mother know nothing about
your last three months — excepting that
you have been very ill."

And that you wished to go to America
without taking leave of us," put in the
mother. Oh, what a small delinquency for
her to know of !

I am afraid, indeed I feel sure, that if
we did know how you have been conducting
yourself, we should be much hurt, perhaps
displeased — but Don John (and we

have trusted him in this) — Don John thinks
it best we never should know."

Lanceyy and Don John looked at one
another, the old bond was just as strong
as ever that bound them, but it had never
been one that seemed to admit of any deep
sense of obligation. They were both lucky
fellows if the one could get the other out
of a scrape, and save the parents from disgrace
and pain.

:i.-i''I am afraid it will be a long time
before you are well enough to go back to
your situation," she said tenderly.

'' Yes, mother," was all he answered.

'will Mr. Cottenham wait all that
time ? " she next asked. So far as she
knew, Mr. Cottenham was not aware of
Lanceyy's intention of going to America,
and this had been prevented by illness.

Lanceyy could not answer.

Mother," said Don John, '' I have seen
Mr. Cottenham twice. Lanceyy has lost
the situation."

Oh, but I hope he was kind ? "

"He was kind."

And then she began to talk to him. A
deep sense of the presence, nearness, and
love of God had gradually grown up in her
heart. Sorrow had been the earthly
cause of this. She had dwelt long in the
presence of a great doubt. It had first
become sweet to her to feel that God
knew which of these was her own son, and
then opening her heart so fully to both of
them, she had begun to think of them as
both God's sons, and to perceive that He
was giving the one who was not hers very
unusual blessings, care, guardianship from
evil, love, prayer, teaching, warnings. It
was true that one of the two had persistently
turned away and done evil, but
she believed firmly, that the same God who
had turned sorrow of hers into blessings
for him, would certainly go on with him.
The last stroke of bitterness had been
dealt to her when the other mother, angry

at some lordly airs of Don John's, when
he was indignant at a base thing which
Lanceyy had done, had dared to tell both
the young men their story ; and her own,
as she had long known him to be — had
come home, and fallen ill, and almost
broken his heart.

But how much more truly he had been
her own, and his father's, ever since. How
much more fully than ever before she had
now become able to sympathize in her
husband's religious life, and receive and
partake of those consolations that he
offered to his son. She deeply loved
Lanceyy still : we do love those whom we
have been so good to. She talked to him,
and Lanceyy answered her humbly, and
with what seemed very true penitence;
but that he had been so lately hunted by
the police, in hiding among the lowest of
the low, and within an hour of being
taken up to be tried for felony, she never
dreamed. ,

When she rose to go away — " I suppose
you send your love to your father, and all
of them," she said. Lanceyy darted a look
at Don John, which said as plainly as
possible, 'may I?"

She saw this, and saw the nod of assent
given. Then Lanceyy said, '' Yes, mother."
She had just been going to add, '' And of
course as soon as you are fit to be moved,
you will come and stay with us till you are
well again." But the sight of this permission,
asked and given, arrested her.
She put her gloves on, considering all the
time, then took leave of him, and went her
way.

Don John soon observed that his mother
was displeased. He knew she had noticed
that Lanceyy all through the interview had
seemed to look to him for guidance, and
had got it. Don John was not penitent of
course, but he knew that he had got into a
scrape.

His mother presently said, '' I meant to

ask poor Lanceyy whether he could comedown
to us tomorrow, but I did not care
to hear you answer for him, and tell him
whether he could or not."

Don John pondered. He and Lanceyy
had already discussed this very question.
Miss Jenny had never been inside " the
house" in her life, and he could easily
keep out of the fields. Besides, though
looking wretchedly ill and thin, he was like
his old self, not like the poor disfigured
creature whom she had helped to nurse.
When first they both talked of this, and
Lanceyy pointed out that Miss Jenny would
not recognize him, he was surprised to
observe that, as to his going again to the
house, Don John made still the same demur.

I am not a felon ! " Lanceyy exclaimed,
rather bitterly ; " that you. should look as
if you thought my presence would be a
disgrace."

No ; because it takes two parties to
make a felon — the criminal and the law.

You have done your part, the whole of it,
it is the law that has not, and therefore
you are not a felon."

Lanceyy quailed a little. He had not
been arrested, he had not been in the dock,
his name and antecedents had not been
published in the newspapers, his adoptive
family had not been put to shame. He
seemed to himself to be indeed a sinner,
and in need of God's forgiveness, but to be,
somehow, nothing like such a sinner as if
the law had found him out, and had taken
its course.

I do not wish to excuse myself," he
began, '' and I owe it to you that I can
hold up my head among my fellow-creatures
; but if I am not to hold up my head,
how am I the better ? "

And now Mrs. Johnston was hurt, displeased
in fact. She knew nothing of the
facts of the crime, of the hiding, of the
giving up on Don John's part of the three
thousand pounds.

His coming to us, poor fellow, is of
course a matter for your father to decide,
not for you," she remarked. " It was indeed
very wrong of him to break away
from us, as he has done. I cannot quite
understand why he should have wished to
go to America, having a good situation,
and so kind a person to work under as Mr.
Cottenham ; but it is not for you to judge
him, my dear, and if your father is inclined
to forgive and have him home for a time,
you will of course acquiesce, and I hope I
shall never see such evidence of his being
subservient to your wishes as I have seen
to-day. I know you are allowing him
what he lives upon, but — "

But that's a mere trifle," Don John
put in here, for the attack was unexpected
and he did not know how to meet it.

That you should be in the least hard
or unjust towards him I cannot bear to
think."

No answer.

Still less that such a feeling as
jealousy should — no, I do not think it, and
the more because you have no reason."

Still no answer.

It is a long time now since that
lamentable affair — "

Don John's face appeared to ask a
question.

'' Of the ring," she continued; " and since
that he has been I fear little better than
the poor prodigal ; but, my very dear son,
though your father has lost so much that
it would sound unreal if he were to say
what that father said, yet so far as love,
approval, trust and pride go, we may truly
say each of us, ' All that I have is thine. ^ "

Don John's face was almost a blank.
She knew all its expressions. He did not
intend her to find out what he thought.

But I must not be hard upon you, my
dear," she went on ; " youth is naturally
severe."

To this general proposition Don John

expressed neither assent nor dissent; but
"he presently said, in a somewhat eon-strained
fashion, —

I have never been jealous of poor
Lance J — never. ' '

Just then the train ran into their station ;
some of the home party were in it and
they all walked through the fields together ;
but in a few minutes Don John turned
back, and sent a telegram to Lanceyy, —

"If you are invited to come here, pray
make no objection ; accept at once."

Don John was already in the midst of
trouble about money. It had been difficult
to get the three thousand pounds for
Lanceyy without his father's knowledge, he
now wanted seven hundred more ; for to
debts to that amount Lanceyy now confessed;
and he was daily liable to be
arrested. These creditors had to be called
upon and appeased, some were paid, some
had advances made them on account. A
farm, in order to meet these demands, had

been already mortgaged. Don John did
not feel even yet that he could trust to the
truth of Lanceyy's repentance. He feared
that if he came again to " the house,"
other creditors might appear, and claimants
of no very creditable kind might dun him
under Mrs. Johnston's eyes. He had expressed
this fear, Lanceyy had earnestly
declared that he had no other debts than
those he had named. Don John hoped
this was true, but he must now take the
risk of its being false, and if it was they
would all have to abide the consequences.

CHAPTER XII.

"I THINK after all," Charlotte had said,
I had better give you that kiss." So
she gave it. It was a sister's kiss, and he
knew it.

And she was so kind, so true, so helpful
to Don John. They were comrades, friends
and conspirators again. They had a sad
and damaging secret in their sole keeping,
and held the family honour in their own
hands. And Naomi's affair went on prosperously
; and Mr. Johnston in a great
degree recovered his health, so that constant
companionship was not needful for
him; but Mrs. Johnston had not yet
talked to Charlotte, and Charlotte held
Don John remote.

Charlotte was so beautiful ! But a
young man's love not uncommonly is
beautiful. It is a way lie lias.

Lanceyy had his invitation, and accepted
it. He was very weak still, had still a hollow
cough, and used to lie on the sofa in the
drawing-room, or in the old play-room,
and he too perceived that Charlotte was
beautiful, and he liked to be in the same
room with her, and observe her sayings
and doings.

The same Charlotte talking about
things that so many people cared for not
one straw, and bestowing on them the most
impassioned feeling and sincere interest.

And once when " mother " entered the
room, he saw her come to a pause, and
regard them all, and especially regard him,
with a certain attention. Why ? And
then she quietly went out of the room,
again looking as if lost in thought.

It must be something they had been
saying, and yet how could it be ?

VOL. iir. E

The girls lead been laughing at Don
John because they said he was such a
complete John Bull, and he had justified
himself, had even confessed to a conscious
wish to keep up the old style and form of
patriotism. He would like, if he could, still
to believe that one Englishman could beat
three Frenchmen. "As to slavery," he
went on, " I hate to hear the old English
horror of it made game of. ' Down with it
at once, sir,' as nurse said to Fred the
other morning when she brought him the
black dose, ' for the longer you look at it
the worse it is.' "

Fred, a great fellow of eighteen, made
a sulky rejoinder : " How came Don John
to know anything about his physic ? "

No, it could not be their talk which the
mother had noticed. In about a quarter
of an hour she came in again, and sat
down in her own corner on the sofa,
taking up her knitting.

She still appeared to notice them all,

and Lanceyy felt that he must not look at
Charlotte so much.

Charlotte and Don John were talking
and arguing playfully, as of old, only that
Don John treated her remarks with more
deference. There was nothing to interest
Lanceyy in the conversation, but he listened
idly, because the mother did.

Poetry ! "What ! poetry, our finest
English endowment ! poetry destined to
become a lost art ! Surely, Charlotte, you
cannot think that ? "

Not destined to decline at once, butin
the course of years. The first move has
been made already. "We have begun to
admire the wrong thing."

'' Other arts have been lost certainly."

And why ? Partly, I think, because
we try so many experiments ; it is not
enough to have perfection. What could
be more beautiful than an old seventy-gun
ship, or a wooden full-rigged merchant
ship, or a sloop ? "

K 2

'' But we do not want our ships only for
their beauty."

"No; and yet we came nearer to the
Creator's work when we made our finest
saiHng ships than man ever came before."


Nearer than when he built the Parthenon
? "

'' Oh, yes ; there is almost the same
difference as between a lily and a nautilus.
The Parthenon is beautiful and
stationary, but ships are beautiful, and
they can move."

It does seem as if the ship of the
future was to be like a giant poloni, or a
vulgar imitation of a turbot, with horns
fuming out blackness *on its back. But,
as I think I remarked before, we do not
want ships only for their beauty."

"No."

"And so we change them to gather
speed, or to get power, or to. save expenditure."


And we do want poetry for its beauty,
yon mean. Yes, only for its beauty; for
its moral power over us — its teaching,
comforting, and elevating power all depend
on its beauty. We know all this, and yet
tidings come to pass."

Soothing particular is coming to pass
that I can see, excepting that just lately
some poets and people who think they are
poets are getting excessively ingenious.
The French never had much poetry in
them, bat they were exceedingly ingenious,
as the old Italians were. And this sort
of thing is being naturalized here. Is '
there any danger in it ? "

Yes ; because it makes the form of so
much more consequence than the spirit,
that it will end in taking the writing of
verse out of the hands of the poets, and
we shall end by admiring ingenious, artful
rhymes more than a wonderful or splendid
thought."

I should have thought a poet, if there

was anything in him, would have been
able to write even in that style."

But not better than an ingenious
scholar. The future poets will be born
in chains, and they used, especially in
England, to be born free. It will surely bea
great disadvantage to be born under the
dominion of a culture of the wrong sort."

Well, I pity the poet of the future : he
will have to look out."

The more art the less nature. I think
the poet of the future will be like a wild
bird in a handsome cage. He will beat
his wings against the wires instead of
singing. And as all these old formal and
difficult descriptions of verse come in, the
themes must be carefully chosen to suit
them. Lyrical poetry with us has always
been rather a wild thing : now we seem
inclined to tame it. The French partridge
you know has nearly exterminated the
English. So I think the French and
Italian forms, in which we can only after

all Trite a finer kind of vers che societe, will
prevail to smother the English lyric."

Well," said Lanceyy, who did not care
a straw for poetry, " then let them, if they
can ; we have got more poetry already
written than we know what to do with."

I shouldn't wonder," answered Don
John, "and so we begin to want a change;
but I must say, Charlotte, that I think
the indications you speak of are very few
and faint*'

Like the straw which shows the way
of the wind."

Mrs. Johnston was at the door by this
time. Lanceyy had felt sure that she would
leave the room when this discussion began
to flag, for he knew whom she would call
to follow her.

'' Charlotte."

He was right !

'' Aunt Estelle."

** I want you, dear one."

Charlotte got up, and the door was shut

after them. The glorious soft orange of
the sunset was reflected only on the red
carpet, and on the pale blue sofa. Charlotte's
white gown was what it had rested
on so beautifully, and her absence made
everything look dull.

It came to Lanceyy almost as an inspiration
that he himself was to be the
theme of " mother's " discourse with Charlotte
; that he had looked a good deal at
Charlotte, and that "mother" did not
care that he should.

He was a little nettled. She was quite
needlessly careful ! It was true he frequently
forgot what a bad fellow he had
been, but then he only forgot what she had
never known. Lanceyy thought a good
deal about this during the evening and the
next day ; but Charlotte did not seem to
avoid him ; she played to him in the morning,
and in the afternoon she took her
share of reading aloud to him with Naomi.

Charlotte generally wore white ; either

the sunshine was clearer or her gown was
even whiter than usual that afternoon, for
as she passed down the garden grass walk
she looked like a pillar of snow. She
gathered a red rose-bud, and went to the
green gate, and leaning her elbows on it
looked out.

Some thought, both sweet and strange to
her, was lying at her heart, its evidence
seemed to give a brooding beauty to her
eyes, and she pouted slightly, as she often
did when she was lost in cogitation.

So she was looking when Don John came
up the field. His father went into the
house by the usual entrance, but he, remarking
her, came on and approached her
as she leaned on the gate.

And she was so quiet, that though she
looked at him, he wanted to partake of the
joy of her presence as she was, rather than
to accost her and make her move. He
stood for the moment on one side of the
gate and she on the other. It was such a

slight affair, only three green rails and a
latch.

Here lie had first discovered her to be
his love, and that on her answer to this
hung his destiny.

The folds of her white robe were not
stirred by any wind, all was as still as a
dream. She had the rose-bud between her
hands, and she touched it with her
lips.

He had drawn off his glove when first he
marked her, for sometimes when they met
if he held out his hand she would put hers
into it unaware. Now, he hardly knew by
what impulse he took off his hat too, and
laid it on the grass. What was she thinking
of? what did this mean? The rosebud
was at her lips again, her shining eyes
looked into his, and she said, '' Dearest,
shall I put this into your coat ? "

It was such an astonishment. " Let me
kiss it first," he stammered, for he could
hardly think this real. How could any

young man so much in love have been so
unready !

Her hands were busy for a moment with
the breast of his coat. '' I might envy
the rose if you did," she whispered ; and
when he had kissed her, she put her arms
round his neck and returned the kiss.

How sudden and how vast a change !

But nothing, when one has it, appears
so natural as delight.

They went through, the garden together,
hand in hand, and when Charlotte had said,
Aunt Estelle has told me all the story,"
there seemed to be nothing more to explain,
and nothing so sweet as silence ; for it was
manifest to both that the world was their
own — a new world not learned, and unexplored.


How can one utter the world ?

No, '' silence is golden," for at least it
does this marvellous new world no wrong.

During dinner the musing, ecstatic silence
was hardly broken at all.

In the course of the evening they began
to consider how anything so remarkable as
their love could be communicated to the
family. They need not have troubled
themselves, everybody knew. Even Master
Fred, who generally stood upon his dignity,
was not above stopping in the corridor that
night to bestow upon his elder brother a
neat and carefully modelled wink, and a
very large smile — a smile in fact that spread
over his face almost from ear to ear.

A chuckling, rolling sound burst from
the young gentleman's chest. It was as if
a small earthquake heaved when it was
young.

He darted into his room and hastily
bolted his door, his usual way when he
had been " cheeky," for when that ceremony
had been forgotten, Don John not
unfrequently burst it open and threw at
him anything that came to hand.

Once or twice he had elaborately
screwed him in, so that, as Mary said,—

If the fruit-ladder had not been long
enough to let him out the next morning, he
must have been fed through the key-hole."

But such are the ordinary ways of
brothers when one is several years older
than the other, and they are as these were,
pretty good friends.

And Lanceyy knew. Somehow or other
he thought it was rather unfair, — and
yet he was very much improved. On
the whole he was very penitent. When
he came to review and consider matters,
he did not see how if they had known
all, they could have let him win Charlotte.
And next he considered that
there was reason enough against such
a thing even in what they did know.
This was a great advance to be made
by such a young man as Lanceyy. Another
advance was his not being afraid of his
father's advice and prayers, he liked them.

But his visit to " the house " was a great
anxiety to Don John, and even to himself.

He felt that he was always liable to be
hunted up by those who had known him
as John Ward, and to whom he had owed
small sums. Little bills might have been
forgotten. His parents might yet know of
his dreadful disgrace ; and the fear of this,
no less than his true penitence, left him on
the whole humble and thankful.

So several weeks went on, and at last
it was decided that Lanceyy should take
a sea voyage as the best chance of perfectly
restoring his health, and that his
mamma " of course should accompany
him. Mr. Johnston found funds for this,
and Don John arranged it. They were to goto
Tasmania. And somehow Mrs. John-stone
felt, and yet could give no actual
reason for it, that Lanceyy did not intend to.
return to his own country, and Don John
did not intend that he should.

Lanceyy was an old traveller, he thought
nothing of the voyage ; and yet when he
went away from " the house," taking leave

of them all he betrayed, for the first time in
his life, very deep emotion. It was impossible
he could stay ; not even Don John
knew that as well as he did. And yet it
was bitter to turn himself out of Paradise.

He felt how much dearer they all and
every one of them were, than the poor
woman whose all he was, and who was to
go with him more because he needed her
services than because he cared for her companionship.


She, too, was much improved. She had
been told all by Don John. She knew the
extreme difficulty with which he had found
money to pay Lanceyy's bills, and yet how
he had refused to let Mr. Johnston know
anything,

She blushed for Lanceyy over some of
these bills, and felt that it was like motherlike
son. He was untrustworthy, dishonest,
and deceitful, as she had been.

Don John was the soul of honour and
uprightness. She sank in her own esteem

when he came near her — and yet he was
rather kind too.

In the course of a few more weeks all
was ready.

The two mothers went on board,
and Don John was there and Mr. John-stone.
Then while these and Lanceyy
went over the ship, the one mother wept
and said to the other that she hoped she
would forgive her.

My husband, Collingwood, has said tome
many a time that our having been suffered
to plant such a doubt in you was
enough to make you feel almost as if the
ways of Providence were hard."

She sobbed.

I did almost feel something like that at
first," was the answer. "but I've got my
own, and the doubts and distress have long
been over."

Ay," was the answer, " and you've
had all the good and innocent years of the
other too. I never had him back till I knew

he would be a misery and a disgrace tome.



You speak too strongly' said Mrs.
Johnston. ** Poor Lanceyy is very much
improved."

*' But I've brought it all on myself,"
sobbed Mrs . Ward . " I o wn it ; I humbly ask
your pardon. I've had my punishment."

I do forgive you."

'* It is but reason you should, for we
both know you've got your own. But even
if it was not so, why still you've got the
best of it. It is not so ; but if it was, I
should have given you my good child and
got your bad one."

Yes ; I have felt that too ; but you
must not think that any distressing doubt
remains. A mother's instinct, both in
your heart and mine, soon grew too strong
for any mistake to be possible."

So they parted friends, and even with a
kiss.

It was Christmas when Lanceyy sailed,

VOL. III. S

That was a pleasant winter, even Naomi
did not think it long. She saw her lover frequently,
and she was to be married in March.

She knew by this time, because her
mother had told her, from whom was to
come her dower, and Fred knew at whose
instance and whose charges he was to goto
Oxford that his really brilliant talents
might have scope. And Mr. Johnston,
feeling easy as to some matters which had
weighed on his mind, improved again in
health, so that it was a very cheerful winter
for them all.

And Charlotte was brought to say after
much persuasion, that the double-blossomed
cherry was her favourite flower, and
most appropriate for a bridal. Charlotte
was very demure. Sometimes she held
Don John remote ; their engagement, in
short, by no means went on according to
its beginning. But her mother was to
come over that spring for six months, and
he thought he knew what for.

There was not half so much crying at
Naomi's wedding as at Marjorie's. They
were said to behave extremely well, and
the children from the houses strewed the
aisles and the church path with yellow and
white and purple crocuses.

As they all stood in the porch to see
Naomi off, she said when she came down
the steps and saw Charlotte standing by
Don John, —

Be good to him, Charlotte. There's
nobody like our Don John."

Charlotte's dimple came, but she
blushed. In a minute or two the bride
was gone, and the whole party excepting
herself, Don John, and his mother had
rushed back into the house to the diningroom
windows to watch the carriage as it
turned up the road.

These stood yet in the porch. The
mother and Charlotte on the upper step
and Don John on the lower.

*' Yes," said Mrs. Johnston, smiling,
s 2

though tears were in her eyes, '' there's
nobody like our Don John."

Her hand was on his shoulder.

Oh, mother," he exclaimed, turning
and looking at them, '' if you didn't all
make so much of a fellow — "

Charlotte would not need telling to be
good to hint, is that it ? " she inquired.

On the contrary," said Charlotte, " if
his merits were not so frequently set before
me I might never have found them out."

She laughed, and her blue eyes danced.
How lovely she looked in all her fair
adornments !

That was a very unkind speech," said
the mother, smiling. " You must say something
to make up for it."

Yes, to please you. Aunt Estelle!" said
Charlotte demurely. Then she pursed up
her rosy mouth, and first bestowing on him
a kiss under his mother's eyes, she said,
There's nobody like our Don John, and
I always think so."

Our Don John. He was always to be
theirs ; first their joy and then their comfort,
next their aid, and in the course of
years all they had of honour and distinction.


And yet, after all — though in this world
they were never to know it, though he was
bound to them by more than common dues
of service done, and love bestowed — after
all, this was the carpenter's son ; and that
Lanceyy, who but for him would more than
once have been their sorrow and their disgrace,
he was the true Don John. But he
was to trouble them no more for ever. He
was cast upon " the mercy of the Most
Merciful." He was quiet in the keeping
of the sea.

THE END.

ST. John's square.

Imposed by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be lead on application.

Crown Buildings, i88, Fleet Street, London,
January, isti.

9 Selection from tete Set of JSoofes;

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A

CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Woi-ks pub
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,

revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, S-*"
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A Day

of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6d.
Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations

1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, ']s. 6d. ; plainer binding, adventures
of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with

117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker

GiLLMORE. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, 7j. dd.
Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage

Sterndale, Author of " Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
After Sundown ; or, The Palette and the Peri. By W. W. Penn,

Author of "Blind-Man's Holiday," &c. With Portrait of Author.

2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24^.
Albania : A Narrative of Recent Travel. By E. F. Knight.

With some very good Illustrations specially made for the work.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, \2s. 6d,
Alcott louisa M.) Jimmy's Cruise in the " Pinafore." With 9

Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 35-. 6d.
Aunt Jds Scrap Bag. Square imo, 2s. td.

(Rose Library, is. )
Little Men : Life at Plu7fi/ield with Jds Boys. Small

post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 3^. td. ( Rose Library, Double vol. 2s. )
Little Women, i vol., cloth, gilt edges, tes. 6d. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each,)

Alcott louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, ^s. dd. (Rose Library, 2s. )

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

I vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Several Illustrations. (Rose
Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 3^. 6d.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, 3^. 6d.

The Rose in Bloofn, Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

3J. dd.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 35. dd.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

yack and yUl. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5 j.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly heathy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Eight Cousins. '"—
A thenoBum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Rock and Snow Sketches.
By H. ScHiJTZ Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by
Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, ioj-. dd. 2nd Edition.

Andersen hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in
Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 25J.

Architecture { The Twenty Styles of) . By Dr. W. Wood, Author
of *' The Hundred Greatest Men." Imperial 8vo, with 52 Plates.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, R.A., F.S.A., 6-r.
Edited by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A. i vol.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 18^.

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Tones.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
ivith silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.

By M. De Servile.
De Joinville's St. Louis, King of

France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or. The Four Leaves.
By Edward LabouUaye.

The Bayard Series continued) :■

Table-talk and Opinions of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
By William Beckford.

The ICing and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Songs. Edited by Professor
Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and
Opinions of the Great Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other
A Case containing 12 Vohivies, price 31J.

Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.


Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballads


My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his
Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la Roche-focal.


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

cis. ; or the Case separately, price 3^. (>d.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. \2s. 6d.

Begin's Fortune the): A New Story. By Jules Verne.
Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^-.

Ben Hur : A Tale of the Christ. By L. Wallace. Crown

8vo, ds.
Refiners' German Copybooks. In six gradations at ^d. each.

Biart lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
"My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage."

Bickersteth's Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from id. to dis. Price
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

Bickers teth rev. E. H., M.A.) The Reef and other Parables.
I vol. , square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2s. 6d.

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, li".

The Master's Home Call ; or. Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, ij-.

The Masters Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, is.
A 2

Bickersteth (Rev. E. IT., M.A.) The Shadow of the Rock. A
Selection of Religious Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7th

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s.
Biographies of the Great Artists (Illustrated) . Each of the
following Volumes is illustrated with from twelve to twenty full-page
Engravings, printed in the best manner, and bound in ornamental
cloth cover, "^s. 6d. Library Edition, bound in a superior style,
and handsomely ornamented, with gilt top ; six Volumes, enclosed
in a cloth case, with lid, ^i lis. 6d. each case.
Hogarth Fra Bartolommeo. Sir David Wilkie.

Turner. Giotto. Van Eyck.

Rubens. Raphael. Fig-ure Painters of

Holbein. Van Deck and Hals. Holland.

Tintoretto. Titian. Michel Angelo.

Little Masters of Rembrandt. Delaroche and Vernet.

Germany. Leonardo da Vinci. Landseer.

Pra Angelico and Gainsborough and Reynolds.
Masaccio. Constable.

Few things in the way of small books upon great subjects, avowedly cheap and
necessarily brief, have been hitherto so well done as these biographies of the Great
Masters in painting." — Times,

A deserving series." — Edinburgh Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black ( Wm.^ Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart, and other Stories, i vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Kilme?ty : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, ds.

Ln Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, ds.

A Daughter of Lieth. nth Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, u. each.

Blackmore (R. L>.) Lorna Done. loth Edition, cr. 8vo, ds.

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, ds,

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, 6s.

Crack Powell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Cannier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary Waverley. New Edition, 6s.

Ere77ia ; or, My Father's Sin. With 1 2 Illustrations,

small post Svo, 6^.

Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Banquet, 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

Blue Banner the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial imo, cloth, gilt edges,
7^. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Boy's Froissart {77ie). js. 6d. See "Froissart."

May's King Arthur the). With very fine Illustrations.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. Edited by Sidney
Lanier, Editor of "The Boy's Froissart."

Brazil : the Amazons arid the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith.
With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 650 pp., 2i,r.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. V.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, 8vo, 2\s.

Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour i?i Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Normandy Picturesque,"
&c. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s.

Bricks without Straw. By the Author of ''A Fool's Errand."
Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, 'js. 6d.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-lore Fairy Mythology, Legends
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. H. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, iS.y.

Buckle henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of. By Alfred

Henry Hath. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy Svo.
Burney capt.) See "On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches sheath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3.f. 6d. Second Edition.

Butler { W. F.) The Great Lone Laid ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^-. dd.

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, iSj-. Cr. Svo, ']s. 6d.

Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth,

2nd Edition, i6j-. Also, in crown Svo, *js. 6d.

CADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Gates of Patience.
Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, 12s. 6d.

Caldecott {R.). See " Breton Folk."

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. See Verne.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. dd.

Child of the Cavern the') ; or, Strange Doings Underground.
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. H. G, Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, ^s. dd. ; cL, plain edges, Sj.

Child's Flay, with i6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed

on thick paper, with tints, Js. 6d.

Jew. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

A New and Cheap Edition of the two above, containing
48 Illustrations by E. V. B., printed in tint, handsomely
bound, 3J-. 6d.

Children's Lives and How to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lamas, M. D. Crown 8vo, cloth, choice

Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.

Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam. ) Pleasures of Memory
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — AthenoBunt.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s.
Cobbett ( Willia77i). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols., crown 8vo, 255-.
Confessions of a Frivolous Iii the) : A Novel of Fashionable

Life. Edited by Robert Grant. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Cradle-Land of Ai'ts and Creeds ; or, Nothing Nev under the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

High Courts, Bombay. 8vo, pp. 420, cloth 14^.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise ofH.M.S. " Challenger" (The). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy 8vo, cloth,
iSs. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt, 7^-. 6d. ; plain binding and edges, 5^.

rana (F. H.) Two Years before the Mast acid Twenty-four
•"-^ years After. Revised Edition, with Notes, imo, 6s.
Daughter (A) of Beth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Day of My Life (A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy, Author of ♦* About Some Fellows." l6mo, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.

Kingston. 350 pp., square imo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.

Cloth, gilt edges, 7^. 'od. ; plainer binding, plain edges, ^s.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly 100 Illustrations, cloth, gilt, lOs. 6d. ; plain binding and plain
edges, Ss.

Dictionary general) of Archaeology and Antiquities. From
the French of E. Bos. Crown 8vo, with nearly 200 Illustrations,
IOJ-. 6d.

Dodge mrs. M.) Hans Br inter; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^. ; Text only, paper, \s.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, wrapper, 6j. %d.

JpiGHT Cousins. See Alcott. .

Eighteenth Century Studies. Essays by F. Henchman.

Demy Svo, supplementary
Education in Saxony. By J. L. Ashford, M.A.,

Trin. Coll., Camb. For Masters and Mistresses of Elementary

Schools. Sewn, \s.
Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, 6s.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown Svo, ^s.

English Philosophies. Edited by Swan Muller, M.A., New
College, Oxon. A Series of Volumes containing short biographies
of the most celebrated English Philosophers, to each of whom is
assigned a separate volume, giving as comprehensive and detailed a
statement of his views and contributions to Philosophy as possible,
explanatory rather than critical, opening with a brief biographical
sketch, and concluding with a short general summary, and a bibliographical
appendix. The Volumes will be issued at brief intervals, in
square imo, 3^, dd., containing about 200 pp. each.

Thefollcni'ing are in the press : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.

ready.
J. S. Mill. Helen Taylor, Editor of «* The Works of Buckle," &c.

English Philosophers continued) : —

Manse. Rev. J. H. HucKiN, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. J. A. Farmer, MA., Author of "Primitive
Manners and Customs." [Ready.

Holes. A, H. Posset, B A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. G. E. Buckle, M. A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Harry Johnson, BA., late Scholar of Queen's College,

Oxford.
Hartley. ") E. S. Bowen, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill, j Oxford. ready.

Shaftesbury. •) ^^.^^^^^^^ FoWLER.
Hutchison. )
Arrangements are in progress for volumes on Locke, Hume, Pale, Reid, &'c.

Episodes of French History. Edited, with Notes, Genealogical,
Historical, and other Tables, by GusTAVE Mason, B.A.

1 . Charlemagne and the Carloving-ians.

2. Louis XI. and the Crusades.

3. Francis I. and Charles V.

4. Francis I. and the Renaissance.

The above Series is based upon M. Guizot's "History of France."
Each volume is choicely Illustrated, with Maps, 2s. 6d.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.

Etcher the). Containing 36 Examples of the Original
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others: Birket Foster,
J. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Heseltine, Robert
W. Macbeth, R. S. Charnock, H. R. Robertson, &c., &c.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. Is. 6d.

Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School' " About Some

Fellows."
Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, lOJ-. 6d.

A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5^.

Eve of Saint Ag?ies the). By John Keats. Illustrated with
Nineteen Etchings by Charles O. Murray. Folio, cloth extra, 21s.
An Edition de Luxe on large paper, containing proof impressions, has
been printed, and specially bound, 3/. 3^.

PARM Ballads. By Will Carleton. Boards, ij. ; cloth,
*- gilt edges, is. 6d.

Fern Paradise the): A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By
F. G. Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with
Eighteen full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of
Ferns and Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \zs. 6d,
Sixth Edition. In IZ Parts, sewn, is. each.

Fern World the). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, \2s. 6d.

^Tr. Heath has really given us good, well written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — AthencB7i7n,

Fe7V (A) Hints 071 Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, i^.
First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. By F. Julien.

Being an Introduction to " Petites Legions de Conversation at de

Grammaire," by the same Author. Fcap. 8vo, 128 pp., \s.
Flooding of the Sahara the). See Mckenzie.
Food for the People ; or, Lentils aid other Vegetable Cookery.

By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, u.
FooTs Errand {A). By One of the Fools. Author of Bricks

without Straw. Crown 8vo, cloth exti-a, with numerous Illustrations,

%s. 6d.
Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land {A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.

Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 2ij.
Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, 3^.
Foreign Countries aid the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The Volumes average 180 crown 8vo pages each, contain 2 Maps
and Illustrations, crown 8vo, T)^. 6d.

The following is a List of the Policies : —
Denmark and Iceland. By E. C. Motte, Author of "Scandinavian

History," &c.
Greece. By L. Sergeant, B.A., Knight of the Hellenic Order

of the Saviour, Author of " New Greece."
Switzerland. By W. A. P. CooLiDGE, M.A., Fellow of

Magdalen College, Editor of The Alpine Journal.
Austria. By D. Kay, F.R.G.S.
Russia. By W. R. Merrill, M.A., Oriel College, Oxford,

Lecturer on the Rochester Foundation, &c.
Persia. By Major-Gen. Sir F. J. Goldsmith, K.C.S.L, Author of

*' Telegraph and Travel," &c.
Japan. By S. Mossman, Author of " New Japan," &c.
Peru. By Clements H. Markham, M.A., Cab.
Canada. By W. Fraser Rae, Author of "Westward by

Rail," &c.

Foreign Countries continued): —

Sweden and Norway. By the Rev. F. H. Woods, M.A., Fellows
of St. John's College, Oxford.

The West Indies. By C. H. Eden, F.R.G.S., Author of " Frozen
Asia," &c.

New Zealand.

France. By Miss M. Roberts, Author of " The Atelier du Lys,"
"Mille. Mori," &c.

Egypt. By S. Lane Poole, B.A., Author of "The Life of Edward
Lane," &c.

Spain. By the Rev. Wentworth Webster, M.A., Chaplain at
St, Jean de Lus.

Turkey-in-Asia. By J. C. McCoAN, M.P.

Australia. By J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald, late Premier of New
South Wales.

Holland. By R. L. Poole.
Frantic maude Jane). The following form one Series, small

post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges: —

Emily s Choice. 55.

Hales Vineyard, ^s.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 4^.

• Marian ; or, the Light of Some Ones Home, 5^.

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters, ass.

Vermont Vale. 5^.

Minnie's Mission, ^s.

Little Mercy. 55.

Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4^.

Froissart {I'he Boss). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume is

fully Illustrated, and uniform with * * The Boy's King Arthur. " Crown

8vo, cloth, 7^. 6</.

Eames ofFatieftce. See Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, 10s. 6d.
THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price los. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and "Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.
The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house"—
Chambers' Joi'.rJiah

The Gentle Life Series continued) : —

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea." — Morning
Post.

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis*
*' De Imitation Christi." 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — I llitstraicd London News.

Familiar IVords. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 4tli and
enlarged Edition. 6s.

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Notes and
Queries,

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." ^s. 6d.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in songe
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life' should own this volumes — Standard.

Llalf-Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell.
Essays o?i English Writers, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner.

Other People's Wijidoivs. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot fail to be
amused." — Morning Post.

A Mai's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By M. T. Pre. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. By

\V. Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3-s-. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World," I2J-. 6d. In 6 monthly parts, 2s. each.

Gordon (J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
'* Physical Treatise on Electricity," &c.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gruff£, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. ici Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, :l. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, vos. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has ever been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Great Artists. See *' Biographies."

Great Historic Galleries of England the). Edited by Lord
Ronald GowER, F.S.A., Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery.
Illustrated by 24 large and CB-really-executed per manenl Photographs
of some of the most celebrated Pictures by the Great Masters. Imperial
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 36^-.

Great Musicians the). A Series of Biographies of the Great
Musicians. Edited by F Suffer.

5. Rossini, and the Modern Italian

School. By H. Sutherland
Edwards.

6. Marcello. By Arrigo Boito.

7. Purcell. By H. W. Cummings.

1. Wagner. By the Editor.

2. "Weber. By Sir Julius

Benedict.

3. Mendelssohn. By Joseph

Bennett.

4. Schubert. By H. F. Frost.
*^* Dr. Hiller and other distinguished writers, both English and

Foreign, have promised contributions. Each Volume is complete in
itself. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3J.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols. , cloth extra, gilt, each 24J-.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Times.

■ Masons School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M.A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, los. 6d.

Guizot History of E?igla?id. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24?. each.

For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on {Mde.) Life, By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s,

tJANDBOOK to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

LLalf-LLours of Blind Alan's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter

Sketches in Black and White. By W. W. Penn, Author of "After

Sundown," &c. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 24^-.
Hallow. W.) LLoiv to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.
Plans Drinker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.
Larger's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,

fully Illustrated, is. With two Serial Novels by celebrated Authors.
' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations thatjto count

them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings

illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions de luxe." —

St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so bi, and so cheap. . . . An extraordinary shillings worth —

160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as

many illustrations." — Edinburgh Daily Review.

An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations." —

Nonconformist.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 187 1. By Dr.
George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, i5j-.

Heath francis George). See " Fern World," *' Fern Paradise,"
*sour Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns," "Gilpin's Forest
Scenery," " Burnham Beeches," "Sylvan Spring," &c.

Heber's bishops Illustrated Edition of LLymns. With upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings, Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7j. (>d.
Morocco, 18^. dd. and2ij. An entirely New Edition.

ILeir of Kilfinnan ( The). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,
Author of *' Snow Shoes and Canoes," &c. With Illustrations. Cloth,
gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^.

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston TissANDiER. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial
imo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, ds.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness. ^y
Victor Hugo. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 425-. Cheap Edition, i vol., ancient

Art. Translated from the German of John

WiNCKELMANN, by Join LoDGE, M.D. With very numerous
Plates and Illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

England. See Guizot.

France. See Guizot.

History of Russia. See Rambled.

Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. See Bryant.

History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With
several hundred Illustrations, By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,
cloth extra, i/. <^s. Second Edition.

Hot I Crossed Africa : from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean,
Through Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi
Affluents, &c.— Vol. I., The King's Rifle. Vol. II., The Collar
Family. By Major Sera Pinto. With 24 full-page and 118 half-page
and smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large one.
2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 42^-.

How to Live Long. See Hall.

How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Bailie.
A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.
With Illustrations, small post Svo, 5^.

Hugo victor) ^'■Niji.ety-Thi'ee'^ Illustrated. Crown Svo, ds.

Toilers of the Sea. Crown Svo. Illustrated, ds. ; fancy

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original
Illustrations, los. 6c/.

See " History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). S portfolios, 21^'. each, or 4
vols., half morocco, gilt edges, 12 guineas, containing 15 to 20
Portraits each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important 'International'
work, entitled, 'THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Lives and
Portraits of the loo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume. The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Froude, and Professor Max
Muller: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings." — Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2

royal Svo vols. , cloth, one guinea each.
Hynmal Companion to Book of Co7n7non Prayer. See

Bickersteth.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■'• Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for the use of Students, price 5^. The
Volumes now ready are : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. By Percy
R. Head. With 50 Illustrations,
5^.

German, Flemish., and Dutch.
French and Spanish.
English and American,

Illustrated Text-Books continued) : —

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith. With 50 Illustrations,
5j.

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Egyptian and Greek. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson,
F.R.G.S. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. 3J-.

In my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson, Author of " Under
the Punkah." With a Preface by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c
Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3^-. dd.

Involuntary Voyage {A?i). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World, Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
8vo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^-.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, \2s. Second Edition.

Irish Land Question, and English Public Opinion (The). With
a Supplement on Griffith's Valuation. By R. Barry O'Brien,
Author of " The Parliamentary History of the Irish Land Question."
Fcap. Svo, cloth, 2s.

Irving ( Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square Svo, on superfine laid paper, and each volume, of
about 500 pages, will be fully Illustrated. 12s. 6d. per vol. See also
** Little Britain."

sack and Jill. By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth,
^ gilt edges, 5^-. With numerous Illustrations.
John Holdsworth, Chief Mate. By W. Clarke Russell,
Author of *• Wreck of the Grosvenor." Crown Svo, 6j.

jy'INGSTON {W. H. G.). See 'snow-Shoes," *' Child of

•^*- the Cavern," "Two Supercargoes," "With Axe and Rifle,"

"Begum's Fortune," *' Heir of Kilfinnan," " Dick Cheveley." Each

vol., with very numerous Illustrations, square crown imo, gilt edges,

7 J. 6d.; plainer binding, plain edges, 5^-.

T A DY Silver dales Sweetheart. 6^. 6*^^ Black.

Lcfiten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.

By the Rev. Claude Banquet, Author of "Blossoms from the

King's Garden." imo, cloth, Fu'st Series, is.dd. ; Second Series, 2s.
Library of Religious Poetry. A Collection of the Best Poems

of all Ages and Tongues. With Biographical and Literary Notes.

Edited by Philip Chaff, Dad., LL.D., and Arthur Oilman,

M. A. Royal 8vo, pp. 1036, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21^-.
Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner the).

2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36^-.
Lindsay ( W. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient

Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols.,

demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, 2ij. ; vols. 3 and 4, 20^. each.
Little Britain ; together with The Spectre Bridegroom, and A

Legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely

New Edition de luxe, specially suitable for Presentation. Illustrated

by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr. J. D. Cooper.

Designed by Mr. CHARLES O. Murray. Square crown 8vo, cloth

extra, gilt edges, vos. 6d.
Little King ; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By

S. Brandy. 64 Illustrative's. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, 7^. dd. ; plainer

binding, 5^.
Little Mercy ; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne

Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c., &c. Small

post 8vo, cloth extra, 4^. Second Edition.
Lost Sir Massi?tgberd. New Edition, crown 8 vo, boards, coloured

wrapper, 2s.

Low's German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of Gei-man for all beginners. \s.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo,
cloth, is. 6d.

4. The Second German Reader, Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

Buchheim^s Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes, sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim.
Small post 8vo, 2s. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post 8vo, 3^-. 6d.

Louis's International Scries of Toy Books. 6d. each; or
Mounted on Linen, is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjornsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

4. The Little Match Girl, from H. C. Andersen's " Danish

Fairy Tales."

5. The Emperor's New Clothes, ditto.

6. The Gallant Tin Soldier, ditto.

The above in I vol., cloth extra, gilt edges, with the whole 36
Coloured Illustrations, ^s.

Lout's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price 1$. 6d.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. BuTLER, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, los. 6d.)

5. A Whaling: Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. II. Markham.

6. Campaigning: on the Oxus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo: the History of a Failure. By Major W. F.

Butler, Cab.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenge-er. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., I's.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol.,

Is. 6d.

Low's Standard Novels. Crown 8vo, 6s. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
*' Coming' through the Rye," " Cherry Ripe," «S:c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. Black.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime: The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hugo.

LoTi^s Standard Novels continued) : —

Alice Lorraine. By R. D, Blackmore.

lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore,

Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

Work. A Story of Experience. By LouiSA M. Alcott. Illustrations.
See also Rose Library.

The Afghan Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of "Seonee."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the Author of
"One Only," " Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

John Holds-worth (Chief Mate). By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Poganuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylum Christi. By the Rev.
E. William, M.A.

LoTi^s Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, Fas. S., Editor of " A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Paper, \s. ; cloth, ij-. dd.

ly/TACGAHAN i^J. A.) Campaigning on the Oxus, and the
■^ ^^ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,
small post 8vo, cloth extra, ']s. 6d.

Macgregor john) ^^ Rob Roy^^ on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,
small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 35-. 6d.

A Thousand Miles iji the ^^ Rob Roy^^ Ca?ioe. nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Description of the " Rob Roy" Canoe, with Plans,

&C., IJ.

27ie Voyage Alone in the Yaivl ^^ Rob Roy.''' New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5^-. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mckenzie {£>.) The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
Mckenzie. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 10s. 6d.

Macqiwid mrs .) Elinor Dry den. Crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Diajie. Crown 8vo, ds.

Magazine. See Harper.

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region,
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, 10^. dd.

Maury commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6j.

Memoirs of Coimt Mot de Merito. 2 vols., demy 8vo, 365.

Memoirs of Madame de Remusat^ 1802 — 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Rkmusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Castel
Hoed and Mr. John Lille. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Refusal during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. 8vo, 2 vols., 32J-.

Menus (366, one for each day of the year). Translated from the
French of Count Brisse, by Mrs. Matthew, Clarke. Crown
8vo, IOJ-. 6d.

Men of Ma7'k : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price \s. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., II., Ill,, IV., and V., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25^. each.

Mendelssohn Family the). Translated from the German of
E. Bock. Demy 8vo, 16s.

Michael Strogoff. 10s. 6d. and ^s. ^^^ Verne.

Milford miss). See " Our Village."

Military Maxims. By Captain B. Telling. Medium imo,
in roan case, with pencil for the pocket, \Qs. 6d.

Mountain and Prairie : a Journey from Victoria to Winnipeg
vi'X Peace River Pass. By the Rev. Daniel M. Gordon, Bed.,
Ottawa. Small post 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, cloth extra,

%s. ed.
Music. See " Great Musicians."
My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of

*'Comin' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c. i vol. edition.

crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial 1 6mo.
150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 3J. dd. each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, 7^-. 6^. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2J. ; paper, \s. each.

TVfATIONAL Music of the World. By the late Henry F.
-^ ^ Chorley. Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, %s. 6d.

Naval Brigade in South Africa the). By Henry F. Nor-bury,
Cab., Ren. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. 6d.

New Child s Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

New Guinea {A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth, 12s.

What I did and what I said. By L. M. Albertus,

Officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy, Honorary Member and
Gold Medallist of the I.R.G.S., C.M.Z.S., &c., &c. In 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Maps, Coloured Plates, and numerous
very fine Woodcut Illustrations, 425-.

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, 30J. Cheaper Edition, i vol. , crown 8vo, %s. 6d.

New Novels. Crown 8vo, cloth, 105. 6d. per vol. : —

Mary Marston. By George MacDonald. 3 vols. Third Edition.

Sarah de Bering-er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Don John. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.

Sunrise : A Story of these Times. By William Black. 3 vols.

A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell, Author of "The

Wreck of the Grosvenor'' "John Holdsworth," &c. 3 vols.
Lisa Lena. By Edward Jenkins, Author of "Gin's Baby."

2 vols.

A Plot of the Present Day. By Kate Hope. 3 vols.

Black Abbey. By M. Crommelin, Author of "Queene," &c.

3 vols.

Flower o' the Broom. By the Author of "Rare Pale Margaret,"

3 vols.
The Grenadiers : A Tale of Berlin. Translated from the German

by Captain Wm. Savile. 3 vols.
Errant : A Life Story of Latter-day Chivalry. By Percy Greg,

Author of "Across the Zodiac," &c. 3 vols.
Fancy Free. By C. Gibbon. 3 vols.
The Saltwater Tragedy. By J, B. Aldrich.
Prince Fortune and Prince Fatal. By Mrs. Carrington,

Author of " My Cousin Maurice," &c. 3 vols.

New Novels confirmed) : —

An English Squire. By C. B. Coleridge, Author of "Lady

Betty, " ' ' Hanbury Wills," &c. 3 vols.
Christowell. By R. D. Blackmore. 3 vols.
Mr. Carol. By Miss Seguin. 3 vols.
David Broome, Artist. By Miss Reilly. 3 vols.
Braes of Yarrow. By Chas. Gibbon. 3 volsl^

Nice and Her Neighbours. By the Rev, Canon Hole, Author
of " A Book about Roses," " A Little Tour in Ireland," &c. Small
4to, with numerous choice Illustrations, \2s. 6d.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. From the French of E. Muller.
Containing many Full-page Illustrations by Philippoteaux. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, north

American Review [The). Monthly, price 2s. 6d.

Nothing to Wear ; and Two Millions. By W. A. Butler.
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, is.

Nursery Playmates prince of \ 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6j.

QBERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See 'part in the
^^ Mountains."

O'Brien. See " Parliamentary History " and " Irish Land
Question."

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burney,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, ioj-. 6c/.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Fcap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, ^s.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Milford. Illustrated with
Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, lis.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post 8vo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " P'ern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. Third
Edition.

pAINTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
•'■ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25^-. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 3IJ. dd.

Painting (A Short History of the British School of). By
Geo. H. Shepherd. Post 8vo, cloth, 3^-. 6d.

Pa I User {Afrs. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol., 8vo, i/. is.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. Svo, i/. \s.

The Chifia Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post Svo, limp cloth, 5j-.

Parliamentary History of the L-ish Land Question the). From
1829 to 1869, and the Origin and Results of the Ulster Custom. By
R. Barry O'Brien, Barrister-at-law, Author of *the Irish Land
Question and English Public Opinion." 3rd Edition, corrected and
revised, with additional matter. Post 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

The Right Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., in a Letter to the Author, says:—
"I thank you for kindly sending me your work, and I hope that the sad and discreditable
story which you have told so well in your narrative of the Irish Land
Question may be useful at a period when we have more than ever of reason to desire
that it should be thoroughly understood."

Pathways of Palestine : a Descriptive Tour through the Holy
Land. By the Rev. Canon Tristan. Illustrated with 44 permanent
Photographs. (The Photographs are large, and most perfect
Specimens of the Art.) Published in 22 Monthly Parts, 4to, in
Wrapper, is. 6d, each.

. The Photographs which illustrate these pages may justly claim, as works
of art, to be the most admirably executed views which have been produced. . . .

"As the writer is on the point of making a fourth visit of exploration to the
country, any new discoveries which come under observation will be at once incorporated
in this work."

Peasant Life in the West of England. By Francis George
Heath, Author of "Sylvan Spring," "The Fern World." Crown
8vo, about 350 pp., IOJ-. 6d.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire : Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. JULIEN, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," "First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (Z.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. Svo,
I/, ws.dd.

Photography history acid Handbook of). See Islander.

Physical Treatise o?i Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A, With about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on S trice by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c., an account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches ; full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory ; full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). In respect to
the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work is quite unique.
2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

Pinto major Serpd). See " How I Crossed Africa."

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. \os.\ half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in I vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, iSj. j
half-bound, lis.

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, 5j-.

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Pointer edwards., R.a). See " Illustrated Text-books."

Practical {A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
By C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3J-. dd.

Prejevalsky {N. M.) From Ktilja, across the Tian Shan to Loh-
nor. Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,
with a Map. \6s.

Primitive Folk Moots ; or, Open-air Assemblies in Britain.
By George Laurence Gomme, F.S.A., Honorary Secretary to the
Folk-Lore Society, Author of *' Index of Municipal Offices." I vol.,
crown 8vo, cloth, \2s.

This work deals with an earlier phase of the history of English
Institutions than has yet been attempted.

Publishers Circular the), aid General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the list and 15th of every Month, yi.

Pyrenees the). By Henry Blackburn. With 100 Illustrations
by GUSTAVE DORE, a New Map of Routes, and Information for
Travellers, corrected to isti. With a description of Lourdes in iso.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. dd.

J^AMBA UD alfred). History of Russia, frown its Origin
■^ ^ to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
1 / r .2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 38^-.

Recollections of Writers, By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of ** The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Bowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, ioj-. dd.

Refusal madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson {Phit). See " In my Indian Garden," " Under the
Punkah."

Rochefoucauld's Reflections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Rogers {S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." 2.s. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott.

The Rose Library. Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, \s. ; cloth, is. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

1. Sea-gul Rock. By Jules Sanded. Illustrated.

2. Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By LouiSA M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3^. 6d.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3J-, 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland,

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young People, Single and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

FouQUfi. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Pour Gold Pieces. By Madame GoURAUD. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beg-innings Ag-ain. Being a Continuation of " Work." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations.

The Rose Library continued) : —

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bags.

Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19, The Minister's "Wooing.

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. ■ The Ghost in the Mill.

22. ^^— — Captain Kidd's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. My Wife and I. Double vol. , 2s. ; cloth, gilt, 3^. 6^.

25. Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

29. Hitherto. By the Author of "The Gayworthys." 2 vols., \s. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies. "

32. Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth,

gilt, 3J. 6d.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

35. Nothing to Wear, and Two Millions.

36. Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton,

Russell {W. Clarke). See "A Sailor's Sweetheart," 3 vols.,
3IJ-. 6d. ; "Wreck of the Grosvenor," 6s. ; "John Holdsworth (Chief
Mate," 6s.

Russell {IV. H., LL.D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 52J-. 6r/. ;
Large Paper Edition, 84^-.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. By
•^ Eleanor E. Orlebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ^s.

Seonee : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central India, and in
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, dis.

Seven Years in South Africa : Travels., Researches, and Hunting
Adventures between the Diamond-Fields and the Zambesi (1872 —
1879). By Dr. Emil Holub. With over 100 Original Illustrations
and 4 Maps. In 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 42J.

Serpent Charmer the) : a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of " India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6^. ;
plainer binding, ^s.

Shakespeare the Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.
Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2.s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. 11. , As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, ^d.

Shakespeare Key { The). Forming a Companion to " The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and Mary
Bowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 8oopp., dis.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Impose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A., Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe,

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour the). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon jules), See " Government of M. Tigers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, is.

Smith {G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
Svo, 6th Edition, i8.y.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-.

An entirely New Edition, completely revised and rewritten

by the Rev. Professor Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford.
Demy Svo, iSj.

Snow-shoes and Castles ; or, the Adventures of a Fur-Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, ^s. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 25J.

South African Campaign 1879 the). Compiled by J. P.
MACKINNON (formerly 72nd Highlanders), and S. H. Shadbolt ;
and dedicated, by permission, to Field-marshal H.R.H. The Duke
of Cambridge. 4to, handsomely bound in cloth extra, 2/. vos.

South Kensington Museum. Published, with the sanction of
the Science and Art Department, in Monthly Parts, each containing
8 Plates, price \s. Volume I., containing 12 numbers, handsomely
bound, 16^-.

Stanley {H. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7j-. 6(f. ; large Paper Edition, vos. 6d.

^^ My Kalulu" Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown 8vo, about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, ^s. 6d.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, \6s.
Through the Dark Continent, which see.

Story of a Mountain the). By E. Reclus. Translated by
Bertha Ness. 8vo, with Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges,
"js. 6d.

Story of a Soldier's Life the) ; or, Peace, War, and Mutiny.
By Lieut-general John Alexander Swart, Cab,, Aide-de-camp
to the Queen from 1859 to 1872. 2 vols., demy 8vo, with Illustrations.


Story of the Zulu Campaign the). By Major Ashe (late
King's Dragoon Guards), and Captain the Hon. E. V. 
(late 17th Lancers, killed at Ulundi). Dedicated by special
permission to Her Imperial Highness the Empress Eugene. 8vo, i6j-.

Story without ani End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, "js. 6d.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, 3^. (>d.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations
and red borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

—— — Geography J with 60 Illustrations. Square cloth, 45'. dd.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, is, ; Library Edition,

45. (>d.

Betty's Bright Idea. is.

My Wife and I ; or, Harry Henderson s History.

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds. *

Minister's Wooing. 5^.; Copyright Series, 15. 6^.; cl, 2^.*

Old Town Folk. ds. ; Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d.

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 35-. dd.

Our Folks at Poganuc. 10s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours. 1 vol., small post 8vo, 6j.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Pink and White Tyranny. Small post 8vo, 3J. dd.

Cheap Edition, \s. 6d. and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. ; cloth, 2s.

Chimney Corner, is. ; cloth, ij". 6d.

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown 8vo, 55.*

— Little Pussy Willow. Fcap., 2s,

Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated with 15

Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress. Dem
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25^-.

Students French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites
Lemons de Conversation et de Grammar." Square crown 8vo, cloth, 2s

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
H. Broker. 8vo, cloth extra, vos. 6d.

See also Rose Library.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
Raphael Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — " On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies,"
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the whole work only), 8j ; Part II. (6 coloured plates), 16^. ;
Part III., ds.

Sugar Beet the). Including a History of the Beet Sugar
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Sullivan (A. M., M.p). See " New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 2/. \2s. dd.

Sumner thon. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise : A Story of These Ti77ies. By William Black,
Author of " A Daughter of Heth," &c. 3 vols., 31J. dd.

Surgeon s Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War, By
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon General to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, Svo, strongly bound in flexible leather, i/. 8j,

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by

12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d,

J^AUCHNITZS English Editions of German Authors.
■^ Each volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, \s. 6d. (Catalogues post
free on application.)

(B.) Gennan and English Dictionary. Cloth, i^. 6^.;

roan, 2s,

2s. 6d.

French and English. Paper, \s. 6d.; cloth, 21.; roan

Tauchnitz {B.) Italian and English Dictionary. Paper, is.dd.;
cloth, 2s. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, i^. 6d. ; cloth, 2S. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

New Testament. Cloth, 2S. ; gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Through Ai7terica ; or, Nine Months in the United States. By
W. G. Marshall, M.A. With nearly loo Woodcuts of Views of
Utah country and the famous Yosemite Valley ; The Giant Trees,
New York, Niagara, San Francisco, &c. ; containing a full account
of Mormon Life, as noted by the Author during his visits to Salt Lake
City in 1878 and 1879. In i vol., demy 8vo, 21s.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, Ails. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
I vol., \2s. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell.

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath, Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3^. 6d.

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of " Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. ; plainer binding, ^s.

Two Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 'js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Tender the Punkah. By Phil Robinson, Author of "In

^^ my Indian Garden." Crown 8vo, limp cloth, uniform with the
above, 3^. dd.

Up and Down; or, Fifty Years' Experiences in Australia,
California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.
Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.
With several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2>s. (>d.

(1) The Exi'bORATioN of the World.

(2) The Guiiat Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.

(3) The Great Explores of the Nineteenth Century.

JJ/ALLEE rev. C. H) The Haines on the Gates of Pearl,
^^ and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Part T., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2.S. 6d, Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Warner {C. D.) My Sumpter in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Back-log Studies. Boards, i^. 6d. ; cloth, 2S.

In the Wilderness. Rose Library, 15.

Mummies and Moslems. 8vo, cloth, \2S.

Weaving. See " History and Principles."

Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance.
By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms
of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap. 8vo, cloth limp, \s.

With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.
Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, 7^. dd. \ plainer binding, y.

Wolsey {C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of international
Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical
Studies. 5th Edition, demy Svo, swords

of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and
Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,
and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell, Author of
"John Holdsworth, Chief Mate," " A Sailor's Sweetheart," &c. 6s.
Third and Cheaper Edition.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET, E.C.

t-
