Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/myconnaughtcousi01jayh

THE DARK COLLEEN.

SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

'The author of "The Queen of Connaught " has again given to the world
an interesting and romantic tale. . . . Very original is the charm of the
early days of poor Mornaa's romance, the rugged grandeur of her home, the
picturesque habits and primitive ceremonies, the tenderness and ferocity of
her melancholy Celtic kindred.' — Athemeiim.
Lively and spirited, abounding with fresh conceptions and picturesque
situations. No more striking locale could have been chosen than Eagle
Island — a semi-savage islet on the west coast of Ireland, with its primitive
manners and customs, and its strange race of half-Celtic, half-Spanish \x\.-
habitants'— G/ciJ^.

The originality of the story is complete. Its charm lies in the picture of
a free and unfamiliar life. . . . Poor Mornaa's return to Eagle Island,
tired, forsaken, and heartily sick of the unknown world that had seemed so
charming, makes a touching scene. . . . Certain states of emotion — as,
for example, the sorrow of Mornaa, and her bewilderment when she finds
that Bison has ceased to love her ; certain aspects of nature in seas and
mountains — are very delicately and carefully rendered. The mixed character
of Founder, the mate, with his love, which would fain be honourable,
awakening a certain gentleness in a hardened disposition, is also a clever
study'— /'a// small Gazette.

' Unquestionably a book of mark. . . . In her word pictures and still-life
scenes the author is all that could be desired. . . . Mornaa is a very
fascinating conception, and drawn with great truth and tenderness of
feeling.' — Graphic.

We have scarcely a fault to find. . It may and should be read.
. . Mornaa's savage puritans at the same time her depths of passion,
are most admirably drawn. The book is an excellent piece of work. —
Academy.

'This fresh and unconventional romance, whose charm is in its vivid
delineations of the weird inhabitants of Eagle Island, and of the varying
aspects of this lone spot in the ocean, according to whether the Atlantic
peacefully laps its shores or dashes with the fury of the tempest on its
rocks.' — Illustrated London News.

Wc may possibly find in its author a worthy successor, though in a somewhat
different line, to those great bygone delineators of Irish life and
character whose names have become household words. . . . Considered
merely as a telling story, " The Dark Colleen " is admirable. The pictures
of the simple peasant life upon Eagle Island, with its alternate toil and
merry-making, its dangers and its pleasures, give a delightful impression of
the inhabitants of the solitary spot. . . . These the author has portrayed
in a manner which is obviously the result of knowledge and actual
observation, and is worthy of all praise.' — Morning Post.

'A novel which possesses the rare and valuable quality of novelty . . .
the scenery will be strange to most readers, and in many passages the aspects
of Nature are very cleverly described. Moreover, the book is a study of
a very curious and interesting state of society. . . . The life is that of
people as unsophisticated and as much their own rulers as the dwellers in
the woodland villages in George Sand's " Maitres Sinners." . A
novel which no novel reader should miss, and which people who generally
shun novels may go out of their way to enjoy.' — Saturday Review.

VOL. I.

In I Vol., Price 23-.,

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS,

THE QUEEN OF CONNAUGHT.

SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

Since Lever and Carleton passed away, we have had little of Irish life in
fiction, and that little has lacked character and power. This new writer
gives promise of filling the vacant place. . . . This novel contains an
unusual mixture of plot and sensation, faithful character, study, and powerful
description. A book to be welcomed and read with delight in these times
for its freshness of conception, its racy, rattling humour, and its ridiculousness
— sometimes so oddly dashed with deep thought— all of which combine
to attest an exceptional power on the part of the author.' — British Quarterly
Review.

Extremely singular, and quite unlike any other tale that has ever appeared
; and it has about it a strange fascination. In reading it, one seems
to be transported into some strange land of poetr^-^ and romance. . . .
Indeed, "The Queen of Connaught " is a series of very skilfully executed
pictures, which present a wonderful appearance of reality. Poor Kathleen
finds out when dying how mistaken her Hie has been, and she does not desire
to begin it again. She dies in the arms of the faithful husband whom till
lately she had never understood, and whose goodness she has never doubted,
but whose love has followed her to the end, and will long survive her. A
most touching story indeed, full of pathos and full of humour, is this " Queen
ol(Zovix\ZM^\ " '—Mar7ii7tg Post.

A story that combines considerable inventiveness, and plot power with
racy study of character and fresh picturesque description. . . . Our
readers will not fail to be struck by the intimate knowledge of Irish ways
and customs, the subtle instinct for the finer distinguishing traits in Irish
character ; and they will no doubt appreciate also the sense at once of
the humour of Irish life, and of the delicacy, the sentiment, and the rough
defiance and dare-devilry that are so oddly intermingled in it. . . .
Dramatic force is noticeable throughout, no less than true descriptive knack.
. . Alike to those who seek striking incident and picture, and those
who seek more solid teaching, "The Queen of Connaught " may be very
safely recommended.' — Nonconformist.

A very new subject is treated in this story with great freshness and
vivacity. The tale may be said to be a study of the Irish character and
temperament ; impartial and thoughtful in its intention, and cleverly executed,
though the author's contempt for the class of characters chiefly described is
visible enough. . . . Nothing can be happier or more graphic than the
author's description of the kind of society which frequents O'Mara Castle as
soon as Kathleen restores the glories of its ancient hospitality The humours
of the society that flock there, from Timothy Linnet, the stately old man
who displaces the master of his house from his own chair because he has
taken a fancy to it, to Biddy Cranny, the poor crazy woman who starves
herself, in both senses of the word, to feed and clothe her children, are
painted with a picturesque breadth and liveliness that add sensibly to
one's knowledge of human nature itself. . . . It is a most charming
study of a subject full of colour, light and shadow, and one that rises
steadily in interest up to the close. The third volume is decidedly the best
of the three, and the scene which comes most nearly up to the ideal point in
power, is the critical scene of the book, where Kathleen, drenched by the
storm, and alone, faces the conspirators against her husband's life, in the
dreary solitude of their mountain hiding-place. . Situations of less
intensity are often painted with consummate skill. . All are etched
with a most faithful and skilful hand. . . . This tale is full of life, skill,
and insight.' — Spectator.

BY

H A E E I E T T J A Y,

lUTHOR of "the QCEEX of Connaught," "TWO MEN AND
A MAIi:)," ETC., Eg.

IN THREE VOL Uses.

VOL. I.

LONDON; F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, Stand, W.C.

1 8 8 3.

pau Rights reserved.'

Crown Svo, cloth, y. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready:—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yo/in Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." ' — john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — JoJui Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of " The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat.

" Phyllida " is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON AND SON, Printers, EJ)INBUK(iH.

V-

^

PREFATORY NOTE.

HE Authoress of Mis Connaught
Cousins, smarting under a certain
misconception, but thinke
ing that polemics of any kind ill befit
i a lady's pen, has asked me to write a
few prefatory words explaining how this
book and its predecessors came to be
rewritten, and how unjust is the charge,
made in one influential quarter, that
^ she is an enemy to Irish nationality.
The task is a difficult one, especially as I

C
^S^

sympathise more strongly than she does
with the present 'political movement, and
am, indeed, much more of an advanced
Liberal ; but we are entirely at one in
our sympathy with the social life and
aims of the Irish people, and in our love
for what is best and noblest in the Irish
nature. In these days of haste and folly,
anything really original in literature is
certain to be misunderstood. When the
Queen of Connaught appeared, its great
and instantaneous success was unconnected
with its most sterling characteristic — that
of an entirely new (but I believe the only
true) reading of the national character and
temperament. Subsequent events have justified
that reading in an extraordinary
manner ; and it is clearly understood now
that the familiar Irishman of literature and

the stage, the men, good-humoured "Pat"
of a thousand novels and melodramas, was
more or less a product of the inner consciousness.
In a subsequent but far less
successful work, unpopular from its rigid
and terrible truth of delineation, the Authoress
put her finger on the canker which
now, as heretofore, poisons the wholesome
life of Ireland ; but the Priest's Blessing,
though neglected now, will live as perhaps
the most powerful social study that ever
came from the mind of a young girl. No
unprejudiced person who reads that work,
and takes it in connection with other works
from the same pen, will doubt its deep insight
— I should say, its unparalleled insight
into the nature of the Irish peasant.

The Authoress of these works went to
Ireland when very young, lived for years

in the wildest and loneliest part of the
wild and lonely West, and was first inspired
to literary effort by what she saw
and hew. Her pictures were drawn from
the very life, of which she was all that
time a portion. She had no prejudices
and no predispositions, and her sympathy,
above all, was for the suffering people ;
and if in her portrayal she often had to
describe moral darkness, she did so with
a full sense of what was brightest and
best on the other side of the picture.
Behind the wretchedness and the squalor,
the ignorance and the prejudice, beginning
in misconception and culminating in crime,
she showed the deep tenderness, the devoted
patience, the sweetness and the
purity, of the Celtic temperament. The
characters of Dunbeg in the Queen of Connaught,

of Patrick O'Connor in the Priest's
Blessing, of James Merton in the present
work, are, as living types, unique in literature
; and the infinite pity of literary
sympathy was never better exemplified
than in the life story of " Madge Dun-raven
" and " Mornaa Dunroon," or than in
the tender idyll of " How Andy Beg
became a Fairy."

Among the first to recognise the unique
power of these stories, their fidelity to
human nature, and their predominant dramatic
power, was one of the foremost
moral teachers of this or any time, — Mr
Evade. Had they been ungracious, had
they been in any sense productions of the
inner consciousness, they would never have
attracted that most keen-sighted of social
observers ; had they lacked sympathy for

their subject, had they been opposed to
what was best in Irish life and character
they would never have won his approval.
But their veracity is vital and will prevail.
Meantime, the reader is to be warned that
they contain many things, present many
pictures, which the false friends and summer
lovers of Ireland must naturally regard
with suspicion and dislike. The true
friends of Ireland, and all those who
honestly sympathise with the national aspirations,
will find in them that truth
which genius only can reveal, and which,
when once revealed, is fairer than any
falsehood, however brightly drawn.

ROBERT BUCHANAN.

Chapter I.

)T was midsummer. The hottest
sun that had warmed our soil
for years shone its brightest
upon city and suburb. All my friends
were in the country, yet I remained
shut up in my chambers, with nothing
fairer, to gaze upon than the withered
grass and drooping trees of a smutty,
smoke-begrimed London square. Height !
It was weary work staying in London
when all the world was wandering away

VOL. I. A

by wood and stream ! When I walked
out the heat of the pavement scorched
the leather of my shoes ! The West End
streets which I traversed were all deserted
save for a few Indian ayahs and dyspeptic-looking
gentlemen of the Haystack breed,
who evidently existed on curry and red
pepper, and felt no sort of discomfort
when the thermometer registered one hundred
in the shade. It was actually my
first experience of summer in town ! —
that lucky spoon which had been in my
possession ever since I was born with it
in my mouth, having managed like an
enchanter's wand to deposit me every former
summer upon the bank of a salmon
river or the knolls of a grouse moor.
For once, however, my luck had failed me,
since, despite their winter's hard work,
my hands lay passively in almost empty
pockets, and my eyes rested gloomily
upon the scorched and grimy streets of
Babylon. Babylon without the " waters,"

or anything suggestive of coolness and
pastoral rest.

As I mused and sulked, my meditations
were disturbed by a step proceeding slowly
round the square, and thrusting my head
out of the window I beheld the postman.
Even his habitually brisk tread had changed
that day into a lagging desultory kind of
stroll. He came wearily on ; he paused
before my door.

Could the letter be for me ? " I wondered,
having nothing more important to
occupy my brain, — for the postman had
slipped a missive into the letter-box, given
his feeble rat-tat, and strolled vacuously
away. I was so much occupied with
watching the man's retreating figure, that
I was hardly conscious of a step on the
stair, a tap at the door, and not until I
heard the words, — ''A letter, sir, if you
please," did I turn my head.

Then it was for me ! — a white square
envelope, addressed to " John Seaman,

Esq." in a hand which seemed, yet was not
altogether, familiar. After scanning the
writing I turned to the seal, and then I
beheld, printed in small capitals, the word
Ballyshanrany, and about it was entwined
the triple-leaved shamrock. Having gazed
for a few minutes at the mystical emblem,
and still more mystical word, I tore open
the envelope, and proceeded to acquaint
myself with the contents. There were
two letters, the first of which ran as
follows : —

Ballyshanrany,
Torpor,

County Mayo,
Ireland.

"My dear Nephew, — The girls, ever
impatient to make your acquaintance, have
for the last ten days been worrying my
life out to invite you here. In vain have
I protested ; in vain have I told them that
a young London barrister must have more
engagements than he knows what to do

with ; although I have asked you three
times already, they declare that the third
time is lucky, and that if I send this letter
you'll come. So I send it. If you are not
already disposed of for the season, I certainly
believe you might do worse than
spend a few weeks down here. We are
homely, but comfortable ; I can manage
to put you in the way of a little sport ; —
Kate, who is a capital housekeeper, will
see that you are properly fed, and the
rest have promised to do what they canto
amuse you. There's half-a-dozen of
them, remember, but they are not bad
colleges as colleges go, and if you come,;
sure they'll give you a hearty welcome I
Think it over, and let us hear from you.
Your affectionate uncle, A. Kenmaee."

I read the letter twice ; then throwing
it on the table, I sat down lazily, cigar
in mouth, to take my uncle's parting word
f)i advice. I thought over his proposition,

and the more I thought of it, the more I
seemed to like it. I felt irresistibly impelled
to accept it, at the same time I
could not help regretting that I did not
know a little more of the relations under
whose roof I was invited to reside.

My uncle was an Irishman to the backbone,
and, as far as I could gather, as warmhearted
an old fellow as ever trod the soil.
Most of his early days had been spent in
India, and it was not till rather late in life
that he returned, married my mothers
youngest sister, and settled down upon hi
native soil. As far as any family communication
was concerned, they might have
settled in Kamskatka, for after the marriage
they seemed to be exiled entirely from their
friends ; but we heard from time to time
that they were happy, and that strange
little faces were appearing upon their
hearth. At length one morning — about
six years before the day on which my
uncle's third invitation fell into my hands —

there came to our house a piece of news
which almost broke my mother's heart,
for she heard that her favourite sister,
after having presented her husband with
half-a-dozen daughters, had died, while the
sixth little stranger was still a baby at her
breast.

After this, the connection of the Ken-mares
with our branch of the family
seemed to cease. We heard little or
nothing of them, and I, busily engaged in
working my way in the world, almost
forgot that such close kin existed at all.
I vaguely remembered, now that the circumstance
was recalled to my mind, having
received two letters of invitation from the
old gentleman ; but the invitations, coming
doubtless at busy times, had never hitherto
been tempting enough to draw me to Ireland.
I had, consequently, written a polite
refusal and dismissed the whole family from
my mind.

Now, however, the case was different.

I had nothing to do ; I had nowhere to
go ; I was stifling in the smoky air of
London, and longing for a breeze from
the sea. Yes, the invitation was certainly
tempting ; it was one, moreover, which I
should have accepted without a moment's
hesitation, but for one appalling contingency
— the half-dozen girls.

To some young fellows this might have
been an inducement ; to me it was the
contrary. Nature never meant me for a
lady's man, and the typical girl of modern
life was certainly not to my taste. It was
all very well to pass half-an-hour with
persons of the other sex in a London
drawing-room, but to have to spend one's
entire vacation, surrounded by girls, was
rather too much of a good thing.

During the vacation," I reflected, *^ one
wants male society, fair sport, and good
cigars. To visit Bally shanrany simply
means that I am to be perpetually bored
with half-a-dozen boisterous Irish hoydens.

The invitation, though sorely tempting,
won't do for a bashful man. I will write
my refusal without a moment's delay."

I rose to carry out my resolution, when
my eye, wandering over the carpet, fell upon
a folded sheet of paper which lay at my
feet. Suddenly I remembered what, until
then, I had entirely forgotten, — the second
letter which the envelope contained, and
which I had never taken the trouble to
open at all. I lifted it, unfolded the sheet,
and read as follows : —

'' Dearest Cousin Jack, — Ever since we
read your speech in the paper, we have
been dying to see you, so we hope that
when you answer papas letter this time,
you will not have the heart to say * no.'
We have not the least idea what you are
like ; but we have conjured up all sorts
of visions which are, no doubt, all wrong;
but one thing we have decided, which
is that, no matter what you are like, we

mean to look after you just the same as
papa. Nora will see to your gun with
papa's ; Biddy will make cartridges for
you, and Aileen will tie you some of her
best flies ; you shall do just as you like, and
if you would rather not be bothered with
so many girls, you shall spend nearly all
your time alone with papa. But do come !
Your affectionate Cousins

Kathleen,

Nora,

Aileen,

Bona,

Bridget,
Amy, ^P
Her mark.

"P.;S. — Excuse the large blot. Amy writers
badly we thought it better to make her
put her mark, and in her excitement she
made the blot instead, Kathleen."

I sat down at once and wrote my reply.

*' My dearest little Conn aught
Cousins, — When I read your father's letter,
I intended to refuse his invitation, for I am
afraid of girls in general, and the thought
of being surrounded by half-a-dozen appalled
me ; but since I have read your letter
my mind has changed. I have a sort of
feeling you must be rather nice, and
the temptation to make sure being too-great
to be resisted, I mean to come. I
have a few things to settle before I can
leave London, but in about a week from today
expect me, — Believe me, till then, your
affectionate cousin, Jack Seaman."

Having written the above, I added a 
the old gentleman, and the thing was
done. In exactly a week from that day, I
turned my back on the smoke of London
and set out with heroic heart to try life in
the wilds of Connaught.

DREARY day and a dreary
prospect ; the air was damp
and chilly, and a thin misty
rain was falling and slowly penetrating to
the skin of the half-clothed little urchins
who were either crouching in the doorways
or wildly driving along their donkeys
loaded with creels of turf.

I was surveying this prospect from the
window of the hotel, when the waiter
suddenly appeared and announced that the
scar was at the door to convey me to my
journey's end. I found the landlord with a
face fit to grace a funeral. From the
moment of hearing my place of destination,

he had looked upon me as raving mad, and
had accordingly treated me with great
forbearance, as a person who was perhaps,
on the whole, harmless enough,
but not at all responsible for his actions.
As for getting any information from him
about the place, that was perfectly hopeless.
When I approached the subject, he
merely answered, " Ah, it is a wild country,
sir," sighed deeply, shrugged his shoulders,
and walked off, evidently feeling that he
had done his duty ; and if I was rash
enough to go after that, why, I must take
the consequences. Around him stood the
ostler, the waiter, the boots, and about a
dozen little ragged monsoons, who stared at
me with all their might and main, scrambled
to obtain the few pence which were scattered
amongst them, and uttered a wild Hooroo !
as the car rolled away. The landlord's
parting sigh was wafted to me on the
chilly wind, and had the effect of damping
my spirits for at least one half of the

day. So I rolled out of the town of Bally-ferry,
in the county of Mayo, Ireland, and
was soon speeding along westward towards
the ocean.

The beginning of the drive was not
very enjoyable ; the misty rain fell unceasingly,
and the chilly wind was gradually
awakening rheumatic reminiscences in my
bones. The district through which I was
passing was truly '' a wild country," for
the most part flat and boggy, and disfigured
here and there by unsightly mounds of
fresh-cut turf; yet the recent rain had
imparted greenness and freshness to the
small patches of pasture, and given tone
and richness of colour to the little knolls
of purple heather here and there dotted
about the unsightly bogs. The dim brown
tinge of the melancholy landscape was
saddened still more by the dark and
lowering atmosphere ; not a hill was to
be seen, and not a tree ; nothing but a
dark and dreary waste bordered on either

side by a heavy mist and a threatening
sky.

I was on my way to Storport, and in
spite of various misadventures by land
and sea, I had so far managed to retain
my ardent desire to try life in the wilds
of Connaught. But I had not been many
hours in Ballyferry, the nearest point attainable
by rail, and fifty long miles from
my destination, when my ardour was considerably
damped by the dreary prognostic
of O'Shaughnessy, the innkeeper,
and his ragged retinue. Even the driver
of the car seemed to be affected while
under his master's eye ; but directly we
turned the corner which shut the hotel
from sight, his spirits rose considerably.
He cracked his whip, shouted, whistled,
yelled, and we sped along merrily —
soon to be joined by an excited Irishman,
dressed in a blue bob-tail coat with
brass buttons, knee breeches, and a brimless
chimney-pot hat, who was smoking a

very dirty, short pipe, and seated on the
back of a donkey. An exciting race ensued.
My driver cracked his whip, and
whistled ; the Irishman brandished his
shillelagh and shouted and screamed at
the top of his voice, and we rattled along
in a perfect shower of mud and rain. The
little donkey kept up bravely, and once or
twice was on the point of leaving us behind
altogether. But at last, after a short but
sharp ride, Pat disappeared, with a defiant
wave of the shillelagh, down an adjoining
road.

After this little distraction, the drive
became more and more dreary and uninteresting
; the thick mist shut out any
view I might have had of the surrounding
country ; the driver seemed to lose all
his spirits, though he still endeavoured ina
moody way to urge the horses on.
Hoping to put a little life into him, I
handed him a drink from my flask, and
told him to take it easy, as the horses

were perhaps rather tired after their late
race, but he had evidently no intention of
letting them " take it easy," for he whipped
and shouted louder than ever ; then he
turned to me and breathlessly exclaimed, —

Faith, sor, the lazy beasts must make
better speed than they're doing, or we'll
never reach the river before night."

Well, suppose we don't, it's not such
a dreadful place, I suppose ? "

Troth, it is though," he answered emphatically
; " the river is tidal, and when
it is swollen with the rain, the current
is strong enough to sweep the horses off
their legs. It's a dangerous place ; steep
hills on both sides, and a rough, broken
road ; one false step would may-be lead
to your death. Did your honor not hear
about it in Ballyferry ? "

Not a word. Have you ever crossed
it before ? "

Only once, your honor. I was taking
some young colleges across — it was these

VOL. I. B

ponies L had ; when we got into the
water, one of the traces broke, and the
whole weight fell on the one pony. It
was a mercy she was a quiet and strong
beast, and she managed to carry us through.
It had been a dry season, and the water
was low, and the tide was out, or. Lord, I
think we should have been killed, for the
poor beast could never have stood against
the current with such a load on her back."

And do you think it is much swollen
to-day?"

Faith, I do then, for not one dry day
have we seen for eight weeks ; but we'll
just stop here and ask about it from a
man I know."

Suiting the action to the word, he accordingly
pulled up before a little thatched
cottage which stood on the roadside, and
called out some mystical sentence in Irish.
After this had been repeated once or twice,
a queer, smoke-dried looking old man made
his appearance, and answered in the same

unknown tongue. A conversation thereupon
ensued, which, to judge from the
despairing looks of the driver, was scarcely
of an agreeable nature. At last he explained
to me that things looked as black as they
could possibly be ; the tide was in, the
river was dreadfully swollen by the recent
rain, and we would most probably not be
able to cross before midnight, when the
tide would be out. On hearing all this,
I decided to go on and reconnoitre, as we
might after all be able to get through, and
if the worst came we must just camp on
the banks until daybreak. So after again
receiving the cheering information, " It's
to a wild country your honour's going,"
I once more sped on my way.

As the weather Still showed no signs of
clearing, I rolled myself comfortably in my
rugs, and prepared to take a slight doze ;
but just as I was dropping into a quiet
sleep, I was suddenly called back to this
fretful world by a frightful babble of voices,

and the car coming to a full stop. On looking
up to ascertain the cause of the delay,
I saw that I was close on the banks of
a stream which rushed down with great
force between two steep hills. On the opposite
bank stood half-a-dozen ragged-looking
Irishmen, wildly gesticulating and
shouting; out unintelligible words which
were almost drowned in the roar of the
waters. I looked around to the driver
for an explanation, but he had disappeared
from the box, aud was down at the water's
edge answering his Irish friends in their
own wild way. My first fears were at once
confirmed ; this, then, was the river. But
how were we to cross it ? It was so swollen
by the continual rain and the full tide, that
it seemed simply impossible for the horses
to get through. With a quickly beating
heart, I anxiously watched the faces of the
men as they carried on their excited conversation.
Then one of them commenced
to sound the passage, by sticking in a long

stick. This proceeding was not of the
slightest use, apparently, as he could not
reach half a yard beyond the bank, but it
evidently satisfied his companions, and after
a little more shouting and waving the
driver returned and announced his intention
of crossing.

The boys think we had better make a
dash at it," he said, " and we'll maybe come
through safe — for if we wait for days we'll
never have a better chance."

But do you think these men are to be
trusted ? " I asked.

"Faith, are they no, sir," he answered
indignantly; " they've all the O'Donnell
blood in their veins, and if I bade them lift
the ponies and carry them over, they'd
never refuse."

Silenced at once by this proof of clannish
fidelity, I allowed him to prepare the car,
and when all was ready, I screwed up my
courage to the highest pitch, and bravely
took my seat by his side. The horses went

down the hill at a spanking rate, and so
steep was the descent, that once or twice
I felt that the car would certainly be overturned
; but the roughness of the road
acted as a sort of drag, and saved us from
any catastrophe.

Then we entered the river ! such a
splashing, jolting, and shouting was never
heard ! Only the horses' backs were above
water, and the car was half buried. However,
they brought us safely through,
galloped furiously up the steep ascent beyond,
never once pausing until they stood
panting and steaming on the top of the hill.
I glanced back and shuddered at the ugly
place through which I had come, then I inquired
how far it was to Storport.

Ten miles," was the quiet reply ; " but
there is a little sheen close by where we
will take a rest."

The sheen referred to was a tiny
thatched hut standing in the roadside bog.
When I first entered the room, the turf

smoke was so thick that I could see nothing ;
but after a few moments my eyes grew more
accustomed to it, and I could discern the
brio;lit flames of a fire which was burnings in
the middle of the floor, the smoke issuing
through a hole in the roof. Over the fire
was a large black cauldron suspended from
a thick, black iron chain which hung from
the rafters ; and around it sat on their
hams several old women with their
elbows on their knees, all smoking short
clay pipes very black with age, and chattering
away in Irish. The whole scene forcibly
reminded me of the " Witch scene " in
Macbeth," only the cauldron, instead of
containing mystic ingredients, was filled with
substantial potatoes. The floor of the other
half of the room was strewn with straw, on
which reposed two pigs, a sheep, a horse,
and any number of hens.

I speedily escaped into the fresh air to
examine the state of the weather and the
country.

The thin misty rain still fell, but the
lowering sky had begun to brighten and to
show signs of clear weather coming. The
landscape was of the same flat and boggy
description as it had been throughout the
journey ; nothing to enliven the scene ; not
even a stone wall to vary the monotony of
the desert land — all was dull, flat, and unprofitable.
The very road was almost a bog,
so sodden was it by the continual rain ; and
outside the door of the hut the pigs and
ducks were waddling in the mire. The
prospect so damped my spirits, that I hailed
with joy the appearance of the horses.
They were led by an old man, dressed in
the usual bob-tail coat and brimless hat,
who addressed me with a queer mixture of
dignity and respect.

*' You're going to Storport, sir % " he
said, touching his brimless hat in a stately
military manner.

Yes."

It's a wild country, sir ! "

I turned my eyes on the surrounding
prospect.

If it's wilder than this," I involuntarily
exclaimed, " it must be wild indeed."

*' You see, sir," he continued, " here we lie
snug and low, and the wind can't very well
get at us, but, in troth, sir, at Storport — "

I heard no more, for driven to desperation
by the reiteration of these dreary
prophecies, I jumped on to the car and
drove away.

The dismal vapours gradually cleared off,
and ere long we got a peep of sunshine.
The land was less barren, and here and
there it was relieved by pastures and grassy
hillocks. As we rolled along the hillocks
gradually disappeared, and were replaced
by heathery mountains. At last I was
aroused by the joyful words, —

This is Storport, sir ; " and I caught my
first sight of the little village.

One glance convinced me that Storport
had been libelled by my roadside informants.

The bad effects of the dreary prophecies
which I had heard vanished from
my mind as I beheld the quiet little haven
of beauty which opened out before my
delighted gaze.

The car had come to a standstill on the
top of the hill. I turned to the man, and
asked if we had many miles further to go.

Sorra mile, or half a mile either," was
the reply.

Can you see the house, then ? "

*' I cannot, yer honor, but I can see the
thimbles of it ! See there, sir," he added,
pointing to a clump of trees, from the midst
of which streaks of smoke were issuing,
*' that is Ballyshanrany ! "

Point me out the nearest route to the
house," I said to the driver. ^* I'll finish the
journey on foot."

I leapt from the car as I spoke, and,
having ordered him to follow with my
luggage, I took a path which he pointed
out to me across the bog. It was certainly

a very short cut ; a walk of ten minutes
brought me to the road again, and I found
myself standing close to an iron gate, the
private entrance to the grounds.

I had raised my hand to open the gate,
when the silence all around me was suddenly
broken by a silvery peal of laughter. I
waited till it ceased, then I laid my hand
upon the gate, which swung back noiselessly
upon its hinges, and entered the grounds.

I could see nothing, for tall trees rose on
either side, and the broad carriage drive,
which I trod, took a sudden and sharp curve ;
the house was completely hidden ; I walked
quietly on ; then I turned the curve, and
came in full view of the dwelling.

The house, a plain, two-storeyed building,
built of stone quarried from the bog, and
roofed with slate, was almost buried in a
profusion of ivy and flowers ; all the windows
and doors stood open, and around
them clustered roses and fuschias in full
bloom. Before the front door was a rather

neglected - looking lawn, gazing beyond
which one beheld the blue of the open sea.
The front door stood wide open, and on the
threshold was spread a couple of bearskin
rugs, seated on which, amidst the wealth of
snow-white hair, was a little girl about five
or six years old. She sat cross-legged,
facing a number of dogs, which clustered
eagerly before her, — dogs of all sizes and
conditions, from one huge St Bernard down
to the veriest mite of a terrier that ever
worried at the life of a rat. It was the
laughter of this little witch which had
already reached me ; she was putting some
of the dogs through their tricks, and every
time they made a mistake she clapped her
hands and laughed aloud.

'cousin number one!" I commented
mentally, drawing back in the shelter of the
trees, and gazing with amused eyes upon
the child. I remembered, as I did so, the
blot and the cross which had disfigured my
much-prized letter, and having decided this

little one's identity, I looked around for
cousin number two.

I had not far to look.

A few yards from the door stood a small
wicker table, strewn with powder, shot,
wads, cartridge cases, etc., and at this table
sat a young iii busily at work making
cartridges. Again I mentally referred to
my letter, and after having done so, I had
little difficulty in recognising my cousin
Bridget. She was certainly not so pretty
as little Amy, who, with her warm brown
skin, her sparkling black eyes and glossy
hair, would have made a model which
any painter might have been proud of.
Still Bridget was not at all bad looking,
and if she had been seen alone and not by
the side of her little witch of a sister, she
would have certainly demanded a second
glance. But she had disadvantages to contend
against, which had not yet come
Amy's way. She was at that age when
the figure has taken no definite form, when

the arms and legs appear too long and
dresses can never be made to fit ; nevertheless,
she had laughing blue eyes and a
pleasant face, which she had contrived to
disfigure by cropping ofi" all her hair. Yes,
I instinctively felt that in Bridget I had
not discovered the beauty of the family,
but I had quite made up my mind that we
should be excellent friends.

Then I took another peep.

This time I was disappointed.

I was about to move forward, and
boldly proclaim my presence, when my
eye fell upon a sight which held me
captive.

Not very far from the table at which
Biddy was so busily engaged, was a hammock
swung up to the branches of two
saplings, and in the hammock, lying at full
length, with her head supported on her two
clasped hands, was another of my Connaught
cousins.

About seventeen years of age, tall and

thin, with a skin like alabaster, and hair of
rich warm gold. She was dressed in a
robe of white, which was daintily trimmed
with lace, and here and there a knot of
rose-coloured ribbon. Through the openwork
of the sleeves and bodice, you could
see the warm tints of arms and neck. Her
golden hair fell loosely on her shoulders,
while her eyes gazed dreamily to the cloudy
sky above. At last I had certainly come
upon the beauty of the family, for no maiden,
however fair, could be more charming.

For a moment I stood gazing as if spellbound,
then I resolutely walked forward,
and in one word made myself known.

Heavens ! what a change !

Amy leaped up from her rug. Biddy from
her table, and Oona — as I heard the others
call the beautiful dreamer — slipt quietly
from her hammock, and came forward smiling
with the rest !

There was a moment, just a moment of
confused silence, then a wild cry of —

Kate, Kate, do come out ! Here's
cousin Jack ! "

What happened after that I don't exactly
know, but I was conscious of the
presence of a somewhat buxom young
woman of twenty, who stood in the doorway,
addressed me as " Cousin Jack," and
offered me her hand to shake and her
cheek to kiss. Afterwards, using a cousin's
privilege, I proceeded to kiss a few more
cheeks, amongst which was the pretty pink
and white one belonging to Oona, who,
having recovered from her first start of
surprise at my presence, accepted my salute
with all the frankness of a child. To what
length my ardour would have gone I am
not prepared to say. I felt quite willing,
however to kiss them all round again, if
necessary, but my good intentions were
summarily interrupted by the arrival of
the car which I had deserted on the road,
and which now appeared with my luggage.

More confusion, more delighted laughter,

and more words of welcome ! At a summons
from Kate there appeared upon the
scene a couple of neatly-dressed servant-maids
and a wild-looking Connaught boy ;
one and all chattered to the driver in their
unearthly tongue, while they possessed
themselves of my goods.

It must not be supposed that the girls
were idle. Kate, — calm, self-possessed Kate,
who had evidently been disturbed at her
housekeeping — superintended the removal
of my luggage, and gave her orders about
it in the Irish language. Biddy was carrying
in my fishing-rod, and a few loose
parcels which were on the car. Oona was
lifting down, with very tender hands, my
strap full of books, while Amy, after having
with a great deal of trouble silenced her
yelping canine family, was staggering in
beneath the weight of my ulster.

It was certainly a new experience to me,
but by no means an unpleasant one. Had
I been more accustomed to female society,
VOL. I. c

71S.

and kept my wits about me, I should
never have allowed those pretty girls to
turn themselves into serving-maids on my
account ; but the novelty of the situation
perfectly took away my breath and rendered
me powerless. So I stood and looked on,
feeling very much like a powerful Sultan,
attended by the ladies of his court.

At length the work was done. All my
packages, both great and small, had been
carried to my room ; the horses which had
brought me thither had been led away to
the stables, where they were to pass the
night; and I stood in the spacious hall
surrounded by the girls.

So you are my Connaught cousins ? " I
said, looking at the cluster of up-turned
faces. *' I must say, my dears, you are
excessively jolly girls ! But I understood
there were six of you ; where are the missing
two ? "

Nora and Aileen," said Kate, smiling,
are out riding, and papa has driven over

to the moor ; bat," she added, gaming at
the face of a very old-fashioned clock which
stood ill the hall, " he'll be in to dinner in
less than half-an-hoiir, — and won't he be
astonished to find you here ! "

Will he ? "

Why, of course he will ; do you suppose,
if you had written to say you were coming,
we should have allowed you to arrive like
this 1 I had arranged to send the car over
to Ballyferry for you ; it would have stayed
there all night, and brought you back the
next day. Papa, Aileen, and Nora, were to
ride as far as Glenderig to have taken you
some lunch, which you could have eaten
there, and escorted you back. And to
think that, after all, you should take us by
surprise ! "

I explained to Kate that 1 had written,
fixing not only the day, but the hour of
my arrival at Bally shanrany. Kathleen
did not seem the least astonished, but she
looked rather more annoyed.

It's that Mickie the post ! " she said.
Sure it's time the work was taken away
from him altogether, for he gets worse and
worse. He hasn't brought me a letter for
the last year that wasn't a month old at
least. Last night he didn't deliver the
letters at all. Shawn saw him at old
Comic's wake. Oh, cousin Jack, what
inhospitable people you must have thought
us to be sure !"

I laughingly dispelled her fears, and in
order to make things comfortable amongst
us, I volunteered to say " How do you
do?" all round again; the girls responded
with heartiness to my offer of shaking
hands ; when I offered to repeat my osculatory
performance they laughingly drew back.

Well ! " I exclaimed, " I must hold to
what I said just now. You are certainly
nice girls — nobody would attempt to deny
it — but you are not girls of your word.
Wouldn't you let your father kiss you ? "

*' Of course we would."

** And did you not promise in your letter
to treat me like papa ? "

Ah ! yes," said Kate bluntly ; " but then
we hadn't seen you, and we thought you
were more like him."

Indeed, and what made you think I
was like him ? "

Well, you are a barrister, you know,
and we had decided amongst ourselves that
all barristers must be old-fashioned, whereas
you are quite young and — and — "

*' And very handsome," added Amy
candidly. " Fll kiss you, cousin Jack."

All the girls laughed, and said Amy's
conduct was shameless, while I lifted heron
to a chair and kissed her brown cheek
not once but half-a-dozen times, after which
she generously volunteered to conduct me
to my rooms.

^J^m^HE lodge, though by no means
^O yn? palatial-looking from the outside,
^§4^1| must have been decidedly roomy
within, since Kate had been able to set
aside two very comfortable chambers for my
sole and special use. The first room which
I entered was a bedroom, furnished and
fitted in a manner to suit the taste of the
most fastidious of men. Everything was
bright, clean, pleasant, and significant of a
woman's careful hand. There were pretty
lace draperies at the window, and snow-white
hangings to the bed, freshly-plucked
flowers on the dressing-table, while around

the open casement clustered full-blown roses
and fuchsias, the scent of which filled the
room. On putting my head out of the
window and looking down, I saw Oona's
hammock, containing now only a half-open
book, Biddy's table covered with half-made
cartridges, and one or two of Amy's dogs.
Looking straight forward, I beheld a boundless
expanse of sea.

Having finished my survey of the bedchamber,
I passed on into the tiny room
adjoining, which was evidently intended for
my private sitting-room or study. There
was no sign of the dressing-room about it,
and the efforts of the girls had evidently
been exerted to make it as great a contrast
as possible to the dimity whiteness of my
sleeping-chamber.

It was the smallest and cosiest of rooms.
A comfortable carpet covered the floor; the
furniture was of plain oak, but there was a
sofa and easy-chair ; on the mantelpiece,
besides a brazen timepiece, was a jar full of

bird's-eye tobacco and a box of cigars ; and
on the table, which was covered with a
neat table-cloth, were a number of books.
I glanced at the books, which had doubtless
been selected for my special reading, and
found them to consist of a New Testamenta
guide-book to Connemara, Lord Byron's
Poems (expurgated family edition, with
Oona's name written on the fly-leaf), and
an Irish treatise on fly-fishing. Nor was
this all. Close to the window stood a pretty
mahogany writing-desk, where I found stationery,
ink, pens, stamps, and even sheets
of folios for scribbling, and a bronze reading
lamp. There were more flowers here,
both in the room and clustering outside
the window, while the green trailing creepers
contrasted pleasantly with the warm red
curtains within.

My lines have fallen in pleasant places,"
I said, casting a last look around. Then,
remembering Kate's words, " In half-an-hour
papa will be in to dinner," I deemed the

best thing I could do would be to put myself
in order for the family meal.

I re-entered my bedroom, laid out my
things, pulled off my coat, and unbuttoned
my collar, when my operations were suddenly
stopped, — for the sounds which issued
from below announced the arrival of the
missing members of the family.

I looked out.

First a couple of horses cantered up the
gravel walk, and paused before the hall-door,
then I heard the rattling of carriage-wheels,
after which a hearty voice exclaimed,
—

What ! you don't mean to say he's
arrived, Kate ! God bless my soul, where
is he ? "

A minute afterwards I heard a good
sound rap at my door, and, on opening it,
I beheld my uncle.

One glance, and my heart went out to
him ; he was a man whom nobody could
dislike. He was adored by all his tenantry,

and idolised by bis girls. Now, for the
first time, I could understand why my
mother's petted sister bad been induced to
marry a man just twice ber age. I could
understand also the unaffected candour of
the girls. Kenmare was a gentleman from
bead to foot, but there was no vestige in
bim of self-consciousness or affectation. He
was over sixty years of age, tall, broad-shouldered,
and firmly built ; bis air and
beard were of a pure iron grey, and bis face,
tbougb bronzed and wrinkled, was band-some
still. He was dressed in an old suit
of nondescript brown, and the brown leggings,
wbicb readied to bis knees, were
covered with bog-mire. He bad removed
bis billycock bat, and the perspiration stood
in beads upon bis brow. But bis face lit
up into a bright smile when be looked
at me.

Well, my boy," be said, '' sure I am
heartily glad to see you, and I hope, now
you have come, you mean to make a long

stay. Will you join me in a glass of grog ?
or has Kate given you too much already V

I confessed that since my arrival I had
had nothing, and added hastily that I was
not in need of anything ; but my uncle was
not to be put off.

Nonsense, my boy ! " he exclaimed,
after a journey like that any man would
want a glass, so you'll just come down
with me. I always take half a glass when
I come in from shooting. It keeps out the
cold, and gives me an appetite for dinner.
You haven't got your coat on ? Never
mind — this is Liberty Hall ! "

So saying, and in spite of my remonstrances,
he took me downstairs and marshalled
me into a room where two young
ladies were sitting, clad in riding-habits,
with • their round felt riding-hats pushed
back on their heads. My uncle introduced
the young ladies as "Alley" and "Nora,"
and disposed of me as their " Cousin Jack."
The girls looked up, stared, and laughed,

then they rose, shook hands with me, and
made off to dress for dinner. Kenmare
turned to the waiting-maid, who was bringing
in the cold water for his grog.

A glass for my nephew, Mary, my
dear," he said, ** and when you're back in
the kitchen tell that spalpeen Shawn to
wake himself up a bit, for there's a
new master for him at the lodge. Sure
he's a lazy loon, but he knows his way
about, and I mean him to look after Mr
Seaman!"

Then his eye fell upon Kate, who was
passing on her way to the dining-room, and
he exclaimed, —

Oh, Kate, Kate, where is all your Irish
hospitality ? "

Sure, papa," returned Kate, blushing
and laughing, 'rit is not my fault. He
arrived so suddenly ; he took us all so
much by surprise, that I completely forgot
he might be thirsty ! "

Having disposed of my grog, I was allowed

to go to my room again, receiving
this time special orders to dress quickly, for
the dinner would not be long.

My first care was to stand before the
glass and examine myself critically. As I
did so, I called up the imaginary picture
which the girls had drawn of me, and understood
the startled look of surprise which
had come into their eyes, as they had rested
the first time upon me.

Middle-aged, and old-fashioned ! " I
was certainly neither. I was tall and slim,
and despite my thirty years my worst enemy
could not have accused me of looking
more than twenty-five. Perhaps this last
fact was owing to the lack of hair on my
face, for beyond a slight moustache which
shaded my upper lip, I had none.

Having examined myself, and feeling
rather pleased with the result, I turned
from the glass and hurried on with my
operations for dressing. I had brought a
few suits with me, but they had been selected

more with a view to sport than ladies'
society. True, I had been perfectly aware
that I was about to be introduced into the
society of half-a-dozen girls, but I had not
thought the whole of them worth the carriage
of a suit of dress clothes. As I
acknowledged this, and remembered how
well a suit of dress clothes became me, I
continued my dressing in anything but a
contented frame of mind.

I had finished, and was about to take
another survey of myself in the glass, when
a gong sounded loudly. I hastily descended
the stairs, crossed the hall, and entered the
dining-room.

I was the last to arrive.

There was my uncle, habited now in a
suit of dark tweed, with spotless linen,
which showed off to perfection his bronzed
cheeks and iron-grey hair ; and there were
the girls, all six of them, looking as fresh
as new-blown roses, all nicely dressed indelicate
whites and creams and pinks, and

presenting as pretty a picture as one could
hope to see on a summer's day.

The only bit of shade was introduced by
Kate, and she, being the oldest, and, as it
were, the matron of the family, had thought
it consistent with her matronly dignity to
wear shades of a sombre hue. She was
dressed that night in a costume of soft
black lace, with slashing of amber, and
she carried a couple of pale yellow roses at
her throat and in her black hair.

The dinner passed off merrily. We were
waited upon by the couple of neat Irish
colleges who had carried in my luggage.
Both the food and the drink were good.
My uncle kept us amused with some good
stories ; and the girls had learnt the difficult
lesson of not to expect a lot of foolish
attentions from a man when he's tired
and hungry. They talked to their father
and to each other ; but for the time being
they were generous enough to let me
alone.

During the dinner I felt grateful enough
for their consideration ; but after the inner
man was refreshed, and when all the girls
had retired to the drawing-room, it was
another matter. Then I began to long
for their society ; so, presently seeing that
my uncle was growing sleepy over his
grog, I proposed that we should "join the
ladies." Nothing loath he rose, and we
repaired to the drawing-room together.

All the girls were "there, and most of
them were occupied ; but the one who
attracted the most of my attention was
Amy. She sat on the hearth, just as I
had seen her sitting on the door-step,
surrounded and almost smothered by that
strange collection of dogs. The tiniest
mite of the collection, a shaggy little terrier,
was curled up in her lap ; while the
sole desire of the others seemed to be to
touch some part of her pretty little body.
They rested their heads on her shoulder,
they poked their cold noses into her little

hands, they sniffed about her hair, they
leisurely licked her brown cheek.

I took my seat with the party, and by
dint of a few well-applied questions, managed
to make myself tolerably well acquainted
with one and all.

Thus I learned that Kate was not only
the good fairy at home, but in the village ;
that she helped the needy and cured the
sick, taking very often the place of the
elector, who had a strong liking for whisky,
and consequently was not always equal to
the demands made upon him. But what
did the villagers care ? They knew that at
the lodge there was a medicine chest as
good or better than any in the doctor's
surgery ; that at any hour, both day and
night, Kate was ready to answer the call of
the sick ; that for the performance of operations
which were well within her knowledge,
her hand was as sure as the doctor s ; and
most important of all, that she always

VOL. I. D

carried a basket well filled with dainties
for the patient to eat. Consequently Kate's
hands were always pretty full. Sometimes
the sick were brought to the
lodge and treated in the room known
as " Kate's Surgery, " but when they
were too ill to be removed she went to-them.


Aileen and Nora had a passion for riding,
and spent a good deal of their time on the
backs of a couple of country hacks which
their father had given them. In this way
they managed to render some valuable
assistance to Kate. In the course of a
morning's ride they could visit half - a -
dozen patients and report progress ; they
had also a couple of capacious saddle-bags
which Kate could fill. Besides this,
Aileen was fond of a good day's fishing,
and there wasn't a boy in Connaught could
beat her at tying a fly.

As for Oona, I found at once she was a
dreamer, and lived in a world of her own.

She was fond of roaming about the village
alone, of visiting spots made interesting in
her eyes by their connection with legends
and fairy tales. After having listened
with breathless interest to the tales told by
the old cauliaghs of the village, she would
return to her home to lie in her hammock,
and dream. She had also a tiny study at
the top of the house, I was told, where she
sometimes sat to write out the poems and
romances, which she hoped some day to be
able to give to the world. When quite a
little child, and up to the age of fourteen,
she had been a zealous contributor to Little
Folks' Magazine, and for certain stories
published therein she had received a couple
of silver medals and a beautifully bound
volume of ^sops Fables. I was promised
a sight of these treasures, then hidden in
the study.

Biddy and Amy, the youngest of this
girl-garland, were supposed not to have
formed any particular tastes at all. Biddy's

LIBRARY
UNIVERSnYOFailKQfS

chief occupation seemed to be to look after
lier father's fishing tackle and cartridges,
while Amy they thought might turn out to
be a clever musician, since at the early age
of six she had actually composed an Irish
jig. When I expressed my amazement
that the child should surround herself by
all the dogs that chose to hang about the
establishment, I was informed that the
creatures were Amy's special pride, and that
the whole family belonged solely to her,
since they had been given to her by friends
on her birthdays.

They discovered somehow that she
had a liking for pets," said Kate, " and
so as every birthday came round, two or
three were sure to arrive. Papa is answerable
for it; it was he who first developed
her liking for dogs. He gave her Nero
when she was only a year old, and he
has watched over her ever since. Amy,
you ought to introduce Nero to cousin
Jack."

Where is he ? " said Amy, looking
round ; and she called his name.

At first the call produced no result.
The little terriers of the family frisked
about and wagged their tails, and the white
Gordon setter turned his eye sleepily upon
Amy and yawned. Upon the call being
twice repeated, however, the drawing-room
door opened, and there stalked majestically
in a handsome, black, curly-coated retriever.
He looked neither to the right nor the left,
but walked quietly forward to where his
little mistress sat, paused before her, and
gazed inquiringly into her face. She took
his head between her hands, and bestowed
two or three fond kisses upon his coal-black
nose. He sneezed violently, shook his head,
looked very much disgusted, but made no
attempt to move. Amy laughed delightedly.

'* He hates being kissed," she cried ; " he
can't bear me to love him. Oh, you dear,
disagreeable old Nero, go and say ' How do
you do ? ' to cousin Jack ! "

He turned his eye towards me ; after a
moment's hesitation he walked quietly over
to where I sat, looked at me critically for a
moment, then graciously lifted his paw.

Shake hands ! " screamed Amy enthusiastically.
" Sure you must shake hands
at once, for it's a sign he likes you. Papa,
papa, just look at Nero giving a welcome
to cousin Jack ! "

He's a nice dog, isn't he ? " said Kate,
'when the ceremony of shaking hands was
over ; " and he is a good dog too. He once
saved Amy's life ! "

'' Indeed ! "

Yes ; about two years ago the nurse,
unknown to me, took Amy and Nero with
her and went out for a sail on the sea. A
squall capsized the boat not far from land ;
both the nurse and the boy who was sailing
the boat were drowned, but old Nero swam
to shore with Amy in his mouth."

By Jove ! " I cried ; " he's a fine
fellow ! "

"And, will yon believe it, ever since that
day he has never allowed her to go out
without him. If she attempted to shut him
up he'd tear the house down. One day he
was shut in Oona's room for safety. Amy
had gone with some of the girls to a wedding
in Father John's chapel on the other side of
the Ferry. In the middle of the ceremony
the company were startled by the sudden
appearance of Nero, — dripping from his
swim across the estuary, and with a cut and
bleeding nose. He had broken the glass
hind leapt out of the window, and tracked
her there ! "

I turned to Nero, who still stood looking
critically at me. He answered my look by
leisurely wagging his tail. I patted his
head approvingly, and I certainly felt glad
that he should have deemed it worth his
while to give me a special welcome to
Ballyshanrany.

T is now four weeks since I
arrived at Storport, and already
the old life in London
seems like a half-forgotten dream. Jack
Briefless is transformed into Jack Viator,
I am a full-blossomed sportsman, fisherman,
boatsman ; in fact, a regular Connaught
man. I can drink whisky neat, and I
have learned to love the taste of potheen,
I know almost every man, woman, and
child in the place. I have gone 
with the clergyman, and coursing
with the priest. Over and above all

this, is my Sultan-like position in the
house. The girls adore me, and I adore
the girls.

As to my uncle, he is the prince of good
fellows. His horses, his dogs, his carriages,
his daughters, and his servants are all at
my disposal. But no one bothers me. I
come and go just as I please. Every day
I can make my own programme. If I want
to go shooting, dogs and guns are ready.
If I prefer to stay at home loafing, the
girls have a thousand devices to amuse me.
It is a lazy life and a merry ; my only
fear is that it will utterly spoil me for
civilisation.

The good fairies of the lodge have
given me an attendant Gnome, who is at
my beck and call whenever I choose to
rub the magic ring if I fancy, and summon
him to wait upon me.

His name is Shawn na Chauliagh, or
John of the Ferry, so called because he is
one of the large family reared by the

ferryman who plays Charon between Torpor
and the neighbouring islands. He
stands six feet high in his brogues, has
hair of wondrous redness, and a face
stained mahogany-brown with wind and
weather ; is twenty-five years old ; can tie
a fly and cast a line ; can walk from the
lodge door to the highest mountain without
pausing for breath ; knows every corner
of the moors and every pool of the
waters, and is a prime favourite with
both the gentry and the tenantry. The
district is proclaimed, and is entirely
given over to the landlord shooters ;
but wherever I go I know I am safe
With Shawn.

Two or three mornings after my arrival,
my attendant spirit made his first appearance.


I was standing at the lodge-door with
my uncle, preparatory to mounting the
car and being driven over to the Owen-muff
(ten miles off) for a day's fishing,

when there appeared before us a tall,
powerful figure with a fishing-basket on
his back, a staff in his hand, thick
brogues, tattered trousers rolled up to the
knee, showing a bare pair of herculean
legs.

Shawn, ye rogue," said my uncle, " are
you ready ? "

I am, yer honor," replied the giant.

Have you the lunch in your basket,
and the whisky ? "

Yes, your honor."

"■ This is my nephew, Mr Jack. So long
^s he remains here he's your master, remember
; — you'll take good care of him and
show him the best sport in the country.
Do you mind, now ? "

Shawn smiled and nodded, and then,
in Connaught fashion, held out his hand,
which I took and pressed. At that moment
the car came round. I jumped up
by the driver in front, Shawn mounted
behind, and away we drove, while my uncle

cried "good luck" to us, and waved his-hat
from the house-door.

Shawn was very reticent that day. I fella
little in his estimation when, by terrible
bungling, I lost my first salmon. But he
soon made w^ his mind that I, although
nominally his master, was a sort of a helpless
lunatic, to whom he was to act as a temporary
keeper and protector. When I hesitated
about crossing from one part of the river to
another, he quietly took me on his back,
and strode across with me, wading waist
deep. He showed me how to throw a fly
properly, and when my arms grew tired,
which they did very quickly, he took
the rod and fished the waters leisurely
himself.

His opinion of me sank for a moment
when he saw me dilute my whisky with
water, but it rose again rapidly when he
found that I drank very little of the spirit,,
and gave him as his portion more than two-thirds
of my uncle's large flask.

From that clay forward we became firm
friends and allies.

Some of Shawn's sayings and doings are
memorable for their oddity. The other day,
as we were trudging over the moor in search
of the snipe, which were just beginning to
arrive, driven hither by the first white frost,
wee saw, quietly contemplating us from an
adjacent knoll, the head of a donkey.

The sight encouraged me to a foolish joke.

Look there, Shawn ! " I exclaimed,
isn't that the Diaoul f "

The Diaoul is Connaught for the name of
his Satanic Majesty. Shawn did not smile ;
indeed, his countenance seldom or never
relaxed from its friendly solemnity, but
with the quiet yet respectful air of superior
knowledge peculiar to him, he proceeded to
correct me.

"Indeed then, your honor," he replied,
"it is not'

Then, meeting my look of inquiry, he
calmly continued, —

Sure there are two things the Diaoul
can never put himself into. It's aise enough
for the Diaoul to put himself into a sheep
or a dog, or a bull, or a sealgh, or a crane,
or a wild goose, your honor ; but sorra a
man living ever saw him like a donkey, or
like a pig ! "

We walked slowly on ; after a few minuter
Shawn observed thoughtfully, —

"They're saying, your honor, that pigs
can see the ivied ! "

Indeed ! " I exclaimed.

And that it's of a red colour ! "

Is that so, Shawn ? " I exclaimed, laughing
; " then, if only pigs are gifted enough
to perceive it, one of them must have been
your authority."

Shawn didn't seem to understand me,
but strode on in a dark reverie, surprised
that I should treat so solemn a subject with
anything like levity.

It would be in vain to deny the fact that
Shawn's weakness is a love for distilled

spirits, and I am afraid that my companionship
has not helped to reform him. This
reminds me that my cousin Kathleen, who
is a zealous abstainer, and does a good
deal of teetotal work in the village, has
been trying for a long time to get Shawn
to sign the pledge ; — just before my arrival
she almost succeeded.

After having disappeared for two or three
days, and returned with all the signs upon
him of a heavy carouse, Shawn appeared,
penitent and crestfallen, at the lodge. He
was no longer refractory ; he was quite ready
to sign the pledge. Delighted at this conversion,
Kate led him into the little parlour
which she used as housekeeper's room, produced
pen and ink, and the usual teetotal
card for Shawn s signature.

"I'm so glad, Shawn," she said, "that
you mean to reform. Drinking is so wicked,
so very wicked ! "

Indeed, then, Miss Kathleen, it is I''

"And when you've made up your mind

to give it up altogether, you'll be so much
happier in your mind ! "

Indeed, then, Miss Kathleen, that's
true ! "

*' Put your mark there, where I have put
your name, — John O'Donnell ! "

Shawn hesitated a moment, scratching his
head, then took the pen, and with infinite
trouble, holding his head sideways, and
lolling out his tongue like a school-boy,
contrived to make his mark ; the mark
made, he' looked at it proudly, then turning
to his young mistress with a smile which
was a strange compound of shyness, simplicity,
and self-satisfaction, he exclaimed, —

And now, Miss Kathleen, you'll shut
fetch out the bottle, and give me one glass ! "

Even after that exhibition of Shawn's
complicated perception of the nature of an
oath, my cousin did not let him escape her.
She lectured him soundly, and at last convinced
him that he stood pledged not to
touch a drop of anything, unless (here, alas !

Kate added a fatal corollary) he was dangerously
ill, and absolutely needed the spirit
as a medicine.

The next day Shawn was taken alarmingly
bad " with the colic," and messengers came
flying up to the lodge to beg a " little drop
of whisky, for the love of God." My uncle,
who was at home alone, sent down the
physic. From that day forth, until Kathleen
indignantly released him from his
promise, Shawn's health was a subject of
considerable alarm to his relatives, his internal
attacks occurring with strange frequency,
and yielding to no medicine but
one.

So much for Shawn's addiction to the
bottle. While admitting his infirmity, I
must do him the justice to say that I have
never seen him drunk, or stupidly intoxicated
; it would take a large quantity,
indeed, to affect his seasoned carcase !

And let me admit, moreover, that he is
no worse than his betters. Everybody loves

VOL. I. E

whisky in this district. My own uncle
can take his glass freely. His neighbours
and his servants are free drinkers. The
priest, Father John Murphy, would have
been a bishop long ago (I have it on his
own authority) but for the bottle, and his
curate, Father Tim Doolan, has twice been
suspended. The doctor, an M.D. of Dublin,
is seldom or never sober.

This reminds me that shortly after my
arrival I heard great accounts of the priest's
conversational powers and the doctor's joviality.
" They were characters," my uncle
said, " to be studied and enjoyed," and he
told me a dozen merry stories concerning
them.

They called one morning together, and
sadly disappointed me, for neither had a
word to say for himself. Father John, a
powerfully-built man of five-and-forty, with
a coal-black coat and a rubicund complexion,
was the picture of melancholy. Doctor
Maguire, a little, round man, with bristling

black hair, dressed in a rough tweed suit,
and carrying a heavy walking-stick, looked
fit for a funeral.

No sooner were they seated in the
parlour than my uncle brought out the
bottle and glasses.

Not for me, Mr Kenmare," said Maguire
gloomily ; "I'm not tasting." And he
explained that he had taken the pledge
for a month.

My uncle turned to Father John, who
put up his hand and shook his head.

Nor myself neither ! " he exclaimed.
It's the bishop has made me promise not
to take a glass till next confirmation."

My uncle did not press them, but put
the materials down upon the table midway
between them. Then I, to whom
they had just been introduced, tried to
draw them into conversation. Impossible.
They sat like martyred men, lugubrious,
monosyllabic. Where were their jovial
ways, their jests, their wreathed smiles ?

Gone ; and as for the country, the weather,
the people, they hadn't a good word to say
of any of them. It was a miserable world.

Presently my uncle was called out of
the room by one of the girls. Slightly
embarrassed by my strange company, I
walked over to the window and looked
out. Then I heard the following conversation
carried on by the two worthies,
whom, slightly turning, I watched out of
the corner of my eye : —

Father John, sir, you're looking mighty
pale!"

No paler than yourself, doctor ; I'm
grieved to see you looking so bad."

A pause. Each fidgeted, and cast a sly
glance at the bottle.

*' Is it the green sickness that's on ye,
doctor ? Holy saints, take care of your
health ! "

It's a bad cold I have got, Father John.
But look after yourself, for I'm in dread
the fever is coming on ye ! "

What's good for that, doctor ? "

"A glass of Jamieson, or maybe two
glasses."

*sand for your own green sickness,
doctor ? I'm asking ye as ye're a medical
man ! "

"There's no cure but one, and sure I
have taken the pledge, and can't taste."

Another pause. The men looked sadly
at one another, and then at the bottle.

Father John," said Maguire suddenly,
as your medical adviser, sir, I insist on
your taking a glass of Jamieson ! "

"Dr Maguire," cried the other, "I'll
not have your death on me conscience !
Take a drop of the creature to cure your
sickness, and, by all the saints, I'll absolve
you!

Almost simultaneously their hands were
stretched out towards the bottle. The
priest's hand seized it first, and poured
out two brimming measures. Each clutched
a glass, and lifted it to his thirsty lips.

At that moment my uncle re-entered the
room, and roared with laughter at the
picture. Both men joined in the merriment.
Almost instantaneously they were
transformed. Jest, story, and song flowed
from their magically-loosened lips. Before
they left the room. Father John had sung
The Vale of Avoca " in the richest Irish ;
and Dr Maguire had given his famous
description of how the piper of Achill was
anointed, waked, and half buried when
he was lying unconscious, not dead, but
dead drunk, after Andy O'Shaughnessy's
wedding !

Such are two of the leading worthies of
the place. There are others to whom I
shall endeavour to introduce my reader indue
course ; but these two are paramount.
Both, I may observe in passing, have strong
popular sympathies. Father John, at his
second bottle, is easily persuaded to denounce
the Saxon — in other words, he stands
erect, and with many swings of his right

arm, thunders out a bloodthirsty poem contributed
some years ago to the Nation.
Maguire, at the same stage, sings, " Tory
of the Hills," and other Fenian ditties, with
tremendous unction. Both mean no harm ;
neither would hurt a fly, I am sure of that.
They do these things in what may be called,
referring to a certain famous discussion, a
Pickwickian spirit," — it is a part of their
profession, a phase of their local humour.

It is very curious to me to dwell in a
district so disaffected, and to see everything
so tranquil and so pleasant.

When I came over I brought a revolver
with me, thinking I carried my life in my
hand, but my uncle and the girls laughed
outright at my fears. Yet not a mile from
their door this summer, Mr Ireland, a
Scotch farmer, was shot down dead in cold
blood close to the church-door ; and in the
thick of the fair at Westport I had pointed
out to me the actual murderer of Lord
Antrim. Nay, am I not on the most intimate

terms with Conolly Magrath, who has
the worst reputation in the whole place.

Conolly is a little, mild-spoken man, with
pale blue eyes, a watery mouth, and the
most amiable of tempers. To look at him,
you would take him for a lamb in human
form. He attends to my uncle's horses,
and accompanies us sometimes on boating
excursions, adores the 'young mistresses,"
as he calls them, and worships my uncle,
who has more than once got him out of
serious trouble.

"They tell me, Conolly," I said to him
one morning, " that you know who shot Mr
Ireland % "

Conolly, who was busily rubbing up some
old harness, smiled, a smile that was childlike
and bland.

"Is it me, your honor ? Now, who would
be after telling you that same ?"

Never mind who told me ; but come
now, you do know something about it ; don't
you ?"

/ o

Sorra haportli, yer honor ! " he replied,
still smiling.

"Well, now, didn't you threaten Mr
Oriel of the Castle, your own landlord
r

''I did not, then!" was the reply; he
added naively, " I only told him the truth.
I said that if he asked for the rent this year,
maybe the boys would be firing a shot or
two at him, for fun to themselves ! "

I looked at him with Octave indignation.

It's a shocking state of things ! " I
cried ; *' a disgrace to Ireland. Scarcely a
day passes but some new outrage is reported
! "

I'm in dread, your honor," returned
Conolly, " that it'll never stop till the boys
get hold of the land their own selves ! "

And pay no rent ? ridiculous ! "

"-Sure, how can the poor creatures pay
rent, when they've sorra penny in the
world ? "

I fixed my eyes upon him.

"Don't you think God would punish
you," I said, " if you took away a precious
human life ? "

Conolly was not smiling now ; his pale
face had turned a trifle whiter, and there
was a curious working about his lips.

I'd never do that same, your honor ! "

I'm glad to hear you say so. YovHd
never commit murder, I am sure ! "

Is it me, your honor ? But I put it
to your own self, what harm would there
be for a poor boy to hill a tyrant ? "

Why, that is murder ! " I exclaimed.

Is it, then, your honor ? " he replied,
smilingly. " Sure, then, they don't call that
murder down here in Connaught."

To this day I can't quite make out
whether Conolly is a rogue or simpleton.
I am less decided in my opinion concerning
his blood relation and great factotum, Mrs
Jack Timlin, who kept the village inn.

Sure there's only one man in my
parish," said Father John one day, *' and

he's a woman," refemng to this same Mrs
Timlin. This extraordinary person, the
widow of the late lamented Jack Timlin,
who got wounded in the head in the Westport
riots, has more influence in the district
than any other individual, rich or poor. She
is said to be the head of the Eibbon conspiracy
hereabouts, and it is asserted that
every dark crime which has been perpetrated
in the neighbourhood, had been sealed and
covenanted in her little parlour.

Physically, she is a tall, lean woman, with
a sickly complexion, induced partly by her
habit of smoking strong tobacco. She has
large, bold eyes, an impudent expression,
and a determined jaw. She dresses very
shabbily, much like the poor people hereabouts,
but wears in addition to the usual
short gown and petticoat, a large widow's
cap-cocked somewhat rakishly on the top
of her unkept black hair. She is said to be
rich — at all events she lends money at high
interest to the country people, and woe to

the man or woman, however poor, who fails
to keep faith with her in the repayment of
instalments.

Mrs Jack Timlin, though a furious Land
Leaguer, would sell up and demolish Mr
Parnell himself if he owed her a penny.

She is at once the terror and admiration
of the district. On principle she had
seldom or never paid any rent, and the
landlord never thought of turning her out
of her hostelry till some months ago, when,
indignant and desperate, he gave her warning
to quit. Being of a careful turn of
mind, she at once insured the place, with all
its furniture and stock, for a heavy sum. A
few weeks after the insurance was effected
the place was burned to the ground. It
appeared on inquiry that a stupid caretaker,
whom the widow had left in charge of the
place while she visited some friends in Westport,
had one night gone to bed in his
clothes with a lighted pipe in his mouth,
and awakening found the room in flames.

He had lion rushed out, and sat down
quietly on the opposite side of the road,
where the police had found him at daybreak,
contemplating the blackened walls. Questioned
by the constable as to why he had
failed to give the alarm, he had protested
he hadn't dared, for the life of him, to leave
the spot, — the widow Timlin having sworn
him solemnly, before she left, to keep his
eye upon the house'' which he had done
accordingly, to his own perfect satisfaction,
and it is recorded that of the widow.

These are some of the worthies of the
village ; as for the village itself, and its
situation, I find I have said little or
nothing about them. Words are of little
use to call up natural scenery ; so a few
rough lines of description must serve fora
picture of what could only be properly
reproduced by pencil or brush.

The small cluster of huts which bears the
dignified title of "The Village," stands
upon a grassy hillock, about two hundred

yards from the sea-shore. A magnificent
range of hills runs for miles inland and
almost entirely surrounds it. In the far
distance stretching out into the sea, and
partly cutting ofi* the sweep of the open
ocean, is Errs Head.

A sandy bar, formed by the incessant
washing of the sea upon the soft sand,
stretches from the cliffs on either side, and
forms a sort of breakwater, keeping the
little bay within in a state of comparative
calm ; and so effectual is it, that even in the
roughest winter weather, when outside the
rollers and breakers are raging wildly, and
the spray is dashing about the rocks and over
the summits of the cliffs, the bay within
is comparatively still, and one may use a
small boat with perfect safety. It is impossible,
however, to cross the bar until the
waves have entirely subsided and sunk
into a partial calm.

There are two estuaries, one on either
side of the village, which extend for miles

inland, winding and turning among the
hills. At high tide they swell into magnificent
fjords or arms of the sea, but at low
water they sink into insignificant stretches
of mud and rivulet, and sometimes, especially
during the low spring tides, it is possible
to walk across the strand dry shod.

Shawn's father is the ferryman — that is toto
say, he is the ferryman so called, but his
duties are done by all the members of his
numerous family, including any number
of shock-headed monsoons and black-eyed
colleges, of all sizes and ages, and in all sorts
of costumes.

The ferryboat is an enormous structure,
generally out of repair. When any one
wants to come or go across, there is no
hurry. I have seen the priest myself gesticulating
for a whole hour on the opposite
side of the estuary, without making the
slightest impression on the ferry family,
who were tranquilly digging in the potato
fields close by.

The ferry is, of course, a sheen, and
potheen flows there like water. Sometimes
the whole family get drunk together, and
go to bed for the day.

One of Shawn s brothers, " a little shall
boy" of twenty, big as a grenadier, carries
the letters. He generally takes his own
time about delivering them, and they have
been known to arrive in an advanced stage
of decomposition. If anything were needed
to prove that we are quite outside the pale
of civilisation here in Connaught, it would
be the charmingly informal method of the
postal delivery.

Ace, my boy," said my uncle
one evening, '' be ready at ten
tomorrow for a sail up to
Glenamoy. Charlie Single and Achill
Murray are coming over from the castle,
and we mean to have a pleasant day, please
God."

So it was settled ; and while we were
seated next morning at breakfast, young
Bingiey, in the kilt, and Murray, in a
knickerbocker suit, looked in — the former
a lanky hobbledehoy, much given to dark
musings on the reluctant growth of his
own whiskers ; the latter a square-set, jolly
VOL. I. F

fellow of five-and-thirty, and despite his
Scotch extraction, one of the most popular
men in the district. Mrs Bingley of the
castle possessed large salmon fisheries,
Murray was her overseer, and Charlie her
hopeful son and heir.

Breakfast over we strolled out to the
Yawl," which we found waiting for us,
manned by four sturdy rowers — Shawn, two
of his big brothers, and Conolly Magrath.
Eggs were spread in the stern, and others
in the bow, to sit or lie on, and there were
cheerful glimpses of bottles and capacious
luncheon baskets.

My uncle carried his rifle ; I had my
new Holland choke bore, and Bingley was
content with a muzzle-loader, an old Joe
Wanton.

Three of the girls, Kathleen, Aileen, and
Oona where of the party, and all were in
the best of spirits. I had almost forgotten
to mention Nero, Amy's retriever, which she
lent to us for the day.

We set out early in the forenoon — and
such a forenoon ! The sky was bright as
gold ; the heathery mountains rose purple
clear an either side, with every mossy boulder,
each snowy torrent imaged clearly
in the crystal water. " Not a feature of the
hills was in the mirror slighted." To our
right, as we rowed up the broad fjord, rose
the hills of Ennis — green slopes undulating
to peaks of rock and crests of heather ;
to our left stretched the lower ranee of
the islands of Moira, on which the sea-clouds
rest in stormy weather, but which
were now dark and ruo[g;ed in the blinding
sunlight. Before us, on the fjord itself,
rose bright green isles and emerald promontories,
with nothing living, save an occasional
flight of wild duck, to disturb the
tranquil scene.

My uncle sat in the stern, helm in hand.
On his right sat Aileen and Murray ; on his
left Kathleen, Oona, and myself. Young
Bingley had taken his position in the bow

keenly expectant of a shot at something
flying.

Presently we left the village far behind,
and came among the innumerable small
islands which dot the fjord. On every promontory
sat a heron, patiently watching the
water, and rising leisurely out of gunshot
as we approached.

"Look out, Charlie," cried Murray suddenly.
" There's a duck ! "

And, indeed, one of the canard species
was approaching at lightning speed, high
up in the air. Without turning in his
flight he passed right over us.

Bang ! bang ! went Charlie's gun. Bang !
bang ! went off" mine.

"Sure, she's far out of range," said my
uncle quietly, which was certainly the
case.

We'll land on Mackinroy," continued
my uncle. " A pack of grouse breeds there
every year, and the dog will be sure to
put them up."

The island to which he alluded was right
before us — a low-lying, damp piece of land,
with some clumps of rugged heather. We
ran the boat into a creek. Young Bingley
jumped out, and I followed with the dog.

'' Won't you come, Achill ? " said Charlie
to his friend.

No ; I'll stay here with the girls,"
answered Murray, laughingly.

We climbed the shore, and came out upon
as wet and ugly a flat as could be found
even in Ireland. We soon discovered that
Murray was wise in not accompanying us,
for the very first step we took inland, we
found ourselves wading knee deep, and
Nero, who raced on a little in advance of
us, splashed up the water as he ran. It
certainly did not seem a likely place for
grouse, but there were one or two dry
knolls of heather where a bird or two might
be discovered.

Suddenly, just as I floundered into a bog-hole,
a big hare got up at my very feet ; I

was too flurried to fire, and Bingley rolled
him over.

Well fired, your honor ! " cried a voice
behind us, and ConoUy, running up, appropriated
pussy.

Wheat, wheat ! up got a snipe, and went
away zigzag before us ; we both fired, and
missed.

"Never mind," cried ConoUy "you've
given him a fright, anyway ! "

Presently the dog, who had been scampering
somewhat aimlessly, began to " draw "
in a straight line forward. We followed
him as fast as the wet ground would permit
us, and soon saw, running swiftly before
us, a number of brown birds with their
wings trailing and their heads low down.
But the retriever rushed in wildly, and
up got, out of range, six grouse, headed
by the old cock.

They did not fly far, however, and we
marked them as they alighted among deep
heather five hundred yards away. Conolly

liL4d up the dog, and we walked to the
spot. The birds lay like stones. We
walked all over the place, and were just
o'connor to loosen the dog, when the old
cock rose, and fell immediately to my
gun. Then three of the pack got up
together, and we secured a brace ; and
finally, with the aid of Nero, we accounted
for two more.

We walked leisurely on, and for sometime
discovered nothing more, save several
snipe, which got up out of range. Suddenly
Conolly, who was walking some distance
to our right, crouched down, and
began running towards us at full speed.

What is it V I cried, as he came up
panting.

He explained rapidly that, peeping over
at the adjoining shore, he had caught a
glimpse of a number of ducks swimming
close to the water's edge. By walking
over at a point indicated by his finger,
we were certain to get a shot.

Away we went, stumbling and splashing.
We reached a dark knoll overlooking
the shore, and surmounted it, ready to
fire, but we saw nothing ; and while we
were gazing down vacantly — whirr ! whirr !
quack ! quack ! up got a dozen mallard
from right under us. We fired all four
barrels, and dropped two birds on the very
edge of the sea ; while another, after flying
some distance, fell like a stone into the
water, and floated dead.

After him, honey ! " cried Conolly ; and
away went Nero, beating the crystal tide. He
soon returned with the bird in his mouth.

Flushed and victorious, we now went
back to the yawl. After all, we had the
laugh at Murray, who had missed some
capital sport, but he was very busy with
Aileen, and didn't seem to care.

To reward our prowess, my uncle served
out glasses all round, and then we rowed
away again upon the water.

There is nothing like whisky to warm

a boatman's heart, and soon the rowers
were chattering together in Irish. My
uncle pricked up his ears, for he spoke the
lingo like a native.

"What's that about, Mr O'Neil?" he
asked sharply, addressing Conolly.

ConoUy smiled his childlike Cherish
smile.

Nothing, your honor," he replied ;
only the poor creature has got protection.
He's six peelers to guard him, — two
in the kitchen, two in the parlour, and
two at the gate, and sorra drop or nip
can he take without them to watch over
him ! "

Nonsense ; there's only one policeman
up at the castle ! "

Only one, is it ! " exclaimed Conolly
in mock surprise. " Sure that is a small
attendance for so mighty a man ! "

At this sally the other boatsmen were
convulsed — Shawn almost "catching a crab "
in the height of his merriment.

Ah, you're a bad lot," cried my uncle ;
O'Neil's too good for Connaught ! "

Too good, your honor ! " replied coolly
; " well, then, if that's so, sorra one will
mind when he goes to a better place ! "

You want me for a landlord," said my
uncle, shaking his fist.

Troth then, we do ; more power to ye !
It's not the likes of you that could be
turning poor boys out of house and
home ! "

I'd have my rents out of you, and
if you didn't pay, I'd evict the whole of
you ! What do you think of that, now ? "

It was very easy to see what they
thought of it, for my uncle's good nature
and generosity were notorious. They heeded
his high words no more than the idle wind.
Hadn't he stood up for the boys again
and again, when it was a question between
rich and poor !

O'Neil's a poor - spirited man," said
my uncle in an aside to me; ''he doesn't

understand the people, and I'm afraid he'll
get into trouble."

We were now in the narrows, and faraway
to our right we could see the
highway. All at once, Conolly uttered an
exclamation.

"Look, it's himself!"

In the far distance, trotting slowly along
the road, was a dog-cart. A grey haired
gentleman in an ulster was driving, with
a groom seated at his side, and two armed
policemen behind him. They went very
leisurely, and whenever they approached
any turn in the road, or other " coign of
vantage," the groom peeped nervously forward,
holding something in his hand.

Conolly rested on his oar, convulsed with
silent laughter.

See to Sam the Sassenach, now," he
said". " He's got the master's big pistol ;
but he's in dread of his life."

Sam the Sassenach," so called by the
tenantry, was Mr O'Neil's English groom,

a fat and timorous importation from Belgravia,
who looked upon the Irish as barbarians,
and without an " h " to bless himself
with, held them and their language in the
utmost contempt.

Oh, mille murther," said Con oily, " if
your honor would only lend me the gun,
I would like to have a shot at the houchal
bad cess to him ! "

Silence, you scoundrel ! " thundered
my uncle ; '' how dare you talk like
that?"

Sure, it's too far off for him to be
hunted!" pleaded Conolly. "But if he
only heard the ghost of the sound, he'd
be off, like my mother's lame gander,
screeching wit the fright."

The road pursued by the dog cart wound
through the lonely waste ; and in the loneliest
part of all, on the wayside, stood
an iron police hut, where there was a
detachment of police day and night. Close
to the hut the dog-cart stopped, and several

black figures ran over and stood talking
with Mr Neil.

It was curious to watch the change of
expression in the boatmen's faces as they
looked at the distant group. Their brows
were knit, their teeth set, their whole
look was indescribably sinister and forbidding.


Away with ye ! " cried my uncle, and
with one last scowl of hatred and disdain,
they bent themselves to their oars.

It was now scorching hot, and the windless
waters of the fjord flashed back the
splendours of the sun, like a golden mirror,
on which our boat was crawling, like a fly.
The hills on every side of us, the reflections
of the hills under us, were netted in a
throbbing haze of light.

It was hard work rowing in such a blaze,
and soon the men leant on their oars, panting
and perspiring. My uncle looked at
his watch ; it was two o'clock.

Where shall we lunch, girls ? " he said.

The trials did not know. There were a
thousand bright places round about, and
one was as good as another.

Try Lilian na Sealgh, your honor,"
suggested Conolly. " There it lies before
ye, wit a strip of white sand and a stream
of fresh water, and besides that, there's a
chance at the seals on the rocks."

We had only to glance at the island,
lying green and sunny, right before us,
with the " strip of white sand " shining-like
gold ; and ConoUy's suggestion was
carried nem con.

There was a mile to row ; but with the
prospect of rest and whisky before them,
the men pulled like galley slaves escaping
for life. Before long we ran in on the
golden sand, Conolly and Shawn jumped in
knee-deep, and carried us out one by one,
with guns, luncheon, baskets, rugs, and
other paraphernalia.

Oh that golden beach of Lilian na Sealgh !

Oh the tiny rivulet running silvern down

the mossy rocks, and trickling down in
innumerable diamonds and rubies to the
cool white fringe of the sea !

Oh the listened rocks, scattered here and
there, making dark shades for coolness, the
silvery sand as dry as gold dust, which
when you lifted it in your hand you found
to be full of countless tiny shells, glittering
with all the colours of the prism !

Did my reader, who has doubtless pic-nicked
many a time on some green bank or
scented lawn on the banks of the Thames,
or on some heathery knoll in the Highlands,
ever find such an oasis as I am trying to
describe ? If so, his lines have indeed been
cast, as mine were, in pleasant places !
When Aileen, with Murray's assistance, had
spread the snowy cloth on the sands ; when
Oona had laid out the silver luncheon
service, knives, forks, and glasses ; and
dien Kathleen had produced the contents
of her baskets, — cold pates, grouse pies,
fowl and ham, enough to provision a garrison

for a week, with sherry and whisky for
the men, and a bottle of champagne for the
girls, — who would have thought that we
were banqueting in hapless Ireland, with
Land Leaguers and landlord shooters for
attendant spirits ?

While Conolly and the boatmen withdrew
to a little distance and threw themselves
down in the shelter of the rocks, waiting
for their turn to come, we feasted royally,
and discovered before long that the girls,
who understood Irish appetites, had not
made such unnecessary provision after
all.

Then, fished out of the basket by Kathleen's
deft hand, and received with a shout
of acclamation, came some of my uncle's
choicest cigars, which were merrily handed
round.

And now," said my uncle, " let the boys
have their turn ; while they're feeding we'll
have a turn round the island, and maybe a
shot at a seal ! "

So we rose and scattered, while Kathleen
and Oona signalled to the men.

Don't leave them too much whisky,
darlings," said my uncle as he started off,
or we'll never get home to-night ! "

The girls laughed and nodded, while we
lifted up our guns and prepared to inspect
the island.

Somehow or other — was it by accident or
of set purpose, I wonder — we separated on
our tour of inspection. My uncle strolled
off with Bingley and Kathleen, Murray disappeared
with Aileen, and I, ten minutes
after lunch was over, found myself wandering
among the sweet-smelling heather with
Oona by my side I

That must bring the record of my day's
adventure to a conclusion. What took place
afterwards is not to be put on paper ! As
for sporting after that ramble with Oona, it
was out of the question. The rest of the
day's sailing seemed like a dream. I was
dimly conscious of the sun setting and the

VOL. I. G

moon beginning to rise : of the silvern
radiance lighting bay and creek, and leaving
the hills in ink-black shadow : of the phosphorescent
water splashing from the boats -
men's oars, while ConoUy, well warmed with
whisky, crooned ballads about the " Green
Shamrock," and "Tory of the Hills." All
I cared for was the touch of a little hand
and the smile of a gentle face. At last, as
the boat grated on the shingle, and we prepared
to alight close to home, my uncle
clapped me on the shoulder.

"Jack, my boy, wake up," he said merrily ;
*' you've been wool-gathering all the day ! "

E were all very tired after that
day's outing, and made a singularly
quiet party in the drawing-room
after dinner. My uncle indeed had
fallen back in his chair in a sound sleep. I
was feeling very much as if I should soon
follow his example, when a voice in my ear
aroused me.

Cousin Jack," it said, " I believe I saw
you nodding ! Sure, now, if you sleep all
the evening you'll spoil your night's rest, so
come and see my study ! "

I opened my eyes. I rose with alacrity,
for I had recognised the voice as Oona's,

and when that voice spoke, trust me to
follow ! Besides, the study of which I
had heard so much, and seen absolutely
nothing, contained certain treasures at
which I longed to have a peep. Once
or twice already I had expressed my
desire to make my way up to the hallowed
spot, but my entreaties had always
been without avail. There was some work
going on there which I must not disturb,
some precious papers lying about
which I must not examine. When Oona
was out, the door of the virgin sanctuary
was securely locked, and the key
placed in her pocket ; when she was in,
she was mostly locked in all alone.

But times were changed ; the precious
work was either finished or destroyed, and
the room was open.

"Patience has at length reaped its reward,"
I said to myself as I followed Oona
upstairs, and found myself at last standing
in the middle of the chamber.

It was just such a room as I should have
imagined my dreamy cousin to have ; it was
daintily fitted up, and contained such a
profusion of first-class writing materials as
showed me at once that she was by no means
an established litterateur. Go into the study
of a literary blue-stocking, pure and simple,
and you will find scarcely one pen fit to
write with, scarcely a bit of decent paper on
which to scribble your name ; but Oona had
everything of the best, a perfect profusion
of pens, ink, and papers, two large wastepaper
baskets crammed full to overflowing,
a nice collection of books, and two pretty
reading-lamps for burning the midnight oil.

I examined the room, and praised it. I
endeavoured to be duly impressed by the
silver medals and the handsome volume
of fables which Oona had received as a
child.

Then I asked for the manuscripts, which,
I must confess, aroused my curiosity. But
they were not forthcoming. Instead, I

was told to sit down and be patient, as
Oona wanted to talk to me.

Nothing loth, I threw myself into an
easy-chair, and waited.

"Cousin Jack," she began, taking a
chair in front of me, and looking seriously
into my face, " I have written a
story."

So I should have guessed," I returned,
glancing at the profusion of writing materials
which filled the room.

No ; but I mean a long story, a good
story, a story that really ought to be
published

My dear," I returned, laughing, " most
authors think the same ; if they didn't,
there wouldn't be quite so much trash
given to the world."

But Oona was in no joking mood. To
my utter amazement, I saw her pale cheek
flush, her lovely eyes fill with tears. She
rose, and would have left the room, but
I stopped her.

** Oona ! " I cried in amazement, ** what's
the matter ? "

*' Nothing," was the curt reply.

But there is," I persisted ; " you are
offended at my silly joke, and you want
to quarrel with me, but I'm not going to
allow it. I'll apologise. I'll do anything
you like to show I'm sorry ; but if you
persist in hardening your heart against me,
I'll not stop another hour in Storport."

As I spoke the last words, I saw ever so
slight a shadow pass over her face ; her lip
quivered, and the large tears that had
gathered in her eyes began to fall ; the next
moment she was actually sobbing on my
shoulder.

I tried to soothe her, but I must confess I
was by no means displeased at these curious
changes in her temperament. I folded my
arms about her and caressed her forehead
like — like a father ; and as she lay sobbing
in my arms, with her lovely face hidden on
my shoulder, I discovered what, but for

this little incident, might have remained a
secret for some time longer. During these
few weeks of lazy enjoyment, while I had
been studying the Connaught peasants and
lounging about the Connaught bogs, I had
fallen very deeply in love with the prettiest
girl in the district.

I stood like one in a dream, spell-bound
with delight. How long I remained thus
I don't know — time stood still for me, and
my head whirled round. But suddenly I
became conscious that her sobs had ceased,
that she withdrew herself from my embrace,
raised for a moment her blushing face to
mine, and then turned to leave the room.

But again I stopped her.

Come," I said, " tell me we are friends."

She did not answer, but she hung her
head, as if to hide her tear-stained face, and
held forth her hand. I took it in both of
mine, and drew her towards me. At first
she resisted, then she allowed me to press
her to my breast and kiss her. No words

were spoken, but I felt she understood, and
I knew that she loved me.

She beo:o:ed for a few minutes' leave of
absence to bathe her tear-stained cheeks,
and I let her go ; when she returned I
thought her looking more charming than
she had ever been before. There was a
magical light in her eyes, a fine flush on
her cheek, and a winning smile upon her
pretty lips, which I tried to persuade myself
had not been there before. She laughed,
too, with a sort of hysterical gladness ;
there was a tremor in her voice, and I
could not get her to look straight at me,
but when I drew my chair close to the one
in which she sat, and took her hand in
mine, she did not draw it away.

I had forgotten all about the story, but
Oona had not ; to my amazement she took
up the subject, which had almost caused us
to quarrel, in nervous haste.

Cousin Jack," she said, " don't you
really want to hear about my story ? "

Of course I do," I returned. " I have
been waiting all this time to hear about it.
But Oona, why not call me ' Jack,' without
the ' cousin ' ? "

You would like it better ? "

'' Much better."

*' Very well, then ; if you will listen
patiently I will try."

I was perfectly willing to listen so long
as I could keep my seat by her side, and
hold her warm little hand in mine. So as
we sat thus, Oona told me about the story
that wonderful story upon which all her
hopes of future greatness were evidently
based. The narrative, she said, was true
that is to say, it was an exact record
of events which had actually taken place at
Kildare Castle some half a century ago.
Kildare, she proceeded to explain, was a
most romantic spot, situated about twelve
Irish miles from Storport. Oona, attended
by either ConoUy or Shawn, had ridden
thither again and again, was well acquainted

with the old cauliagh who lived in the
keep and had charge of the ruin ; consequently
she had been shown over it, not
once but many times, had inspected every
relic extant, and had heard the history of
a wildly improbable and most unfortunate
love affair which had happened to the Ross
family that very generation.

It is this story," continued Oona, " which
I have written in my own way, and which I
want you to read. But sit still ; I'll get
you the manuscript presently. I have something
more to tell you first."

Go on, my darling ; I am all attention."
Well, before you came — that is to say,
when you wrote to say that you would come
we girls got much more interested in you
than we had been before, and we talked a
great deal about you. After a good many
discussions we settled in our minds what
you must be like, and then as we had promised
papa to do our best to amuse you, we
began to consider how we could best keep

our promise. But now we all disagreed :
one thought you would like one thing, and
one another, and we began to despair of
coming to any conclusion, when Kathleen
suggested a plan which we all agreed to.
She said that, as we had so many ideas of
amusing you, you ought to get the benefit
of them all ; that we ought each to take a
day, to be called by the name of the one
who chose it, and during that day the girl
whose name it bore would undertake all the
arrangements ; that, at the end of the visit,
you were to be made to say which day you
had enjoyed the most — Kathleen's day,
Aileen's day, Nora's day, my day, Biddy's
day, or Amy's day. Well, what do you
think of it \ "

What do I think of it ? Why, I think
it's far and away the best thing I've
heard since I came to Storport. But I
can't make out why I was never told of it
before."

'* Why," said Oona, looking at me from

head to foot, and giving her half shy smile,
you would have heard of it soon enough
if you had been stout and middle-aged like
papa. We were all agreed upon one point
that you would be too short in the breath
to bear the fatigue of much walking; on the
bogs. We thought you would want to be
driven about sight-seeing, and entertained
in that way ; but when we found how different
you where, we thought you wouldn't
want us to amuse you. But the other day,
when I had just finished my story, I thought
I would tell you of it, because I wanted to
take my day."

Good fairy number one !" I said. " Well,
Oona, when would you like the day to be ?
and what would you like to do ? I should
dearly love to hear my little girl's idea of
the best way of entertaining me even for
twenty-four hours ! "

But if you don't like the idea ? "

'' Then I'll say so ! "

*' Will you really ? Then you shall

hear. I am afraid it is rather selfish," continued
Oona, '* but after all you may enjoy
it. . . . Well, I should like the day to be tomorrow.
I should like to make up a party,
all the girls, papa, and you, and go for a
day's excursion over to Kildare. Some of
us would ride and some would drive. We
could see the old castle and the village, take
our luncheon with us, and get back in time
for dinner in the evening, then after dinner
I should like you to read my story. I
think you would find it much more interesting
after you had seen the place where
the scene is laid."

The plan delighted me, and I said so to
Oona s infinite satisfaction ; one thing only
I stipulated for, — that I was to be allowed to
read the story alone, after I had retired for
the night.

Having thus arranged matters to our
mutual satisfaction, we descended to the
drawing-room, where tea was awaiting us.
Upon Oona making her plans known, everybody

seconded them, and without any
demur it was agreed that the next day
was to be christened

Oona's Day.

The next morning I rose early, half-an-hour
before my usual time, but upon descending
the stairs I found that preparations
for the day's amusement were already
in hand. Both Conolly and Shawn, bereft
of both coat and waistcoat, were working
with a will for once in their lives. Conolly
was in the stable preparing the horses ;
Shawn was rubbing up the phaeton, and
packing into it the luncheon baskets, well
filled by Kate. There was also a large
basket under Oona's special charge; it was
filled with numerous packages of tea, sugar,
tobacco, and little flasks of whisky, to be
distributed amongst Kate's pensioners in
the little village of Kildare. Kate had
intended to be one of the party, but fate

was against her. Amy, who for some days
had been suffering with a decaying tooth,
rose that morning with a swelled face, and
was crying with the intense pain, so Kate
sent off Shawn's brother Mickie for Dr
Maguire, and gave up her day's outing to
attend to her sister at home.

By eight o'clock we were all assembled
round the breakfast-table ready dressed for
the day. The four girls wore riding-habits.
Oona, who had donned hers for the first
time since I came to Storport, looked prettier
than I had ever seen her, and was responsible
for the exceedingly meagre breakfast I
took. Whether or not she was conscious of
this I cannot say, — she scarcely looked my
way at all, and took no notice whatever of
me, and she succeeded in diverting general
attention from me, at the expense of Aileen,
whom she joked incessantly about Murray's
particular attentions on the day before. In
the middle of breakfast she left the table
and went over to Amy, who sat by the fire

looking the picture of misery, with her head
wrapped up in flannel.

Breakfast over, we all made a move.

Now, girls," cried my uncle, *' how are
you going to place yourselves, for, sure
enough, 'tis time we were started ? Alley,
will you ride ? Jack, my boy, will you
make a trial of Lucy ? She's fresh after
being stabled for a couple of days, and
will do herself credit."

Oh, papa, don't give Jack Lucy this
morning ! " cried Oona ; then remembering
herself, she came to a sudden and confused
stop.

Lucy was my uncle's riding mare, a
handsome thorough-bred, famous for bolting,
and shying when ridden by a stranger,
but as docile as a lamb beneath her master's
hand. When she first came into the
family, my uncle had intended her for a
birthday present for one of the girls ; in
the nick of time, however, her infirmities
were discovered. My uncle, finding her
VOL. I. H

quiet beneath his hand, decided to keep
her for his own use, and forbade the girls
to ride her. No sooner had the edict gone
forth than Aileen, who was a wiki, fearless
horsewoman, was seized with a desire to
have a canter on Lucy's back.

One day, when she and Nora were riding,
they came upon Conolly, who was
exercising the mare. The girls rode up to
him, and Aileen, after a deal of persuasion,
succeeded in inducing him to change the
saddles, placing her owen on Lucy's back,
and his upon the horse on which she sat.

This done, Aileen, her eyes sparkling
with delight, placed her foot in Conolly's
hand, and leapt lightly into the saddle.
Alas ! no sooner was she fairly seated, and
with the reins in her hand, than Lucy
reared, plunged, turned round and round,
and finally bolted across country at lightning
speed. On she went, her neck swelling,
her eyes glaring, and foam flying from
her mouth, — over ditches and stone walls,

and across dangerous stretches of bog, —
while Aileen, almost paralysed with fright,
sat helpless in the saddle.

Being a good horsewoman, she managed
to keep her seat until the mare galloped
up the broad drive to Ballyshanrany, and
paused before her stable door. Then Aileen
fainted away.

From that day forth the girls regarded
Lucy with positive terror ; it was the remembrance
of this which had made Oona's
cheeks turn pale when her father proposed I
should ride the mare.

Lucy was certainly very fresh that morning
; she pawed the gravel, champed her
bit, tossed her head, and looked ready fora
race indeed. Not being an over-brilliant
rider, I firmly refused my uncle's invitation
to mount the mare, and he took her himself.
Aileen and Nora sprang into their saddles,
and the phaeton, drawn by a couple of
sturdy ponies, was left for Biddy, Oona,
and myself.

All the horses were tolerably fresh, and
we started off at a spanking pace, the
riders galloping on ahead, and Oona
guiding her ponies with a wonderfully
steady hand. For some distance the road
which we traversed was the one which I
had travelled on first coming to Storport,
a dreary road enough, with flat stretches
of england on either side of us, backed in
the far distance by ranges of desolate-looking
hills.

The weather had changed too, for the
sun had disappeared behind banks of threatening
clouds, and the usual mist was driving
about like smoke.

We had left the village far behind, and
were passing through a country as desolate
looking as the prairies. Here and there
we picked out a woman working diligently
on the bog, sometimes we passed a donkey
trudging sleepily along with its turf-laden
panniers, and driven by a barefooted little
urchin; but that was all. Presently the

riders slackened their speed. Sliawn, who
was seated in the rumble behind the carriage,
spoke rapidly to Oona in the Irish tongue.
She immediately pulled the ponies up.

We are near the river," she said, addressing
me, "and Shawn thinks you
may find a few ducks lying under the
bank. You needn't go unless you like ;
you'll have to pass over some nasty
ground before you get a shot."

We had come to a standstill. Shawn
had leapt from his seat, and was passing
with immense strides over the bogiand
which lay on our right. The riders had
fallen back, and my uncle, who was now
close to the phaeton, called out, —

*' Jack, my boy, out with your gun
and away with you, for you are pretty
sure of a duck. Stop a bit, I'll go along
with you. Timlin, ye thief, come and
hold Lucy, and see you hold her well."

So saying, he slipped from the saddle,
threw the bridle to a rage-ed urchin who

had been at work cutting turf on the
bog, and who came up immediately to
my uncle's call, possessed himself of his
gun, which had been packed away in the
phaeton, and put some cartridges in his
pocket. I hastened to follow his example, and
we started off, shaping our course according
to the signs we received from Shawn.

The ground on which our course lay
was a black stretch of england, miry
and spongy to the tread, interpret
with tussocks of hard earth and stunted
heather, so that our walk consisted of a
series of jumps from one to another of
these points of vantage. For a time we
went along in this fashion, I keeping in
the wake of my uncle, who, being well
accustomed to that sort of thing, was
bounding along like a boy. Presently,
finding the muscles of my legs getting
painful, and my breath about to leave
me, I gazed around, and perceived what
I believed a haven of rest, a broad piece

of land, green, fresh, and fair, lying exactly
between Shawn and me.

I looked round, intending to point this
out to my uncle, but he was already far
on ahead, and keeping still to the tussocks
which skirted this fresh, green plain. I
dared not call aloud to him, for fear of
disturbing the ducks, so I determined tolet
him go on and take advantage myself
of the green sward.

I stepped upon it, heedless of the wild
antics indulged in by Shawn, and found it
decidedly moist, but after all, I mentally
declared, an improvement on the tussocks.
I had got about half-way over when my
progress was arrested by loud cries, and
looking round I perceived that both my
uncle and Shawn were making the most
violent gestures intended for my edification.
Imagining that they were urging me on to
greater speed, I quickened my footsteps,
when all of a sudden I found that the earth
had literally opened and swallowed me.

Yes, there I was, buried up to the armpits,
and only saved from entire suffocation
by the gun, which, by a lucky accident,
rested on a couple of tussocks, and afforded
me some support.

I was in and utterly helpless ; my legs and
body were fast becoming frozen with the
cold contact of mire, and I felt it was sucking
me down.

Lie quiet, yer honor, lie quiet," called
Shawn, heedless now of ducks or geese either ;
don't move, but keep a firm hold of the
gun."

I did as he suggested, and despite the
deathly suction all around me, I managed
to keep myself up, while Shawn and my
uncle, keeping to the tussocks still, came upto
within half-a-dozen yards of me. Then
Shawn, who had taken from his waist certain
coils of rope, which served him as braces,
made a large noose, and threw it towards
me. I managed with considerable difficulty
to slip my arms through it. When this was

done, my imele and Shawn laid hold
of the other end, and they drew me out
'* pop " like a cork from a bottle. When
the operation was over, and I stood upon a
tussock safe and sound, my condition maybe
better imagined than described. I felt
as if the lower part of my body was made
of mud and ice, but both my uncle and
Shawn were perspiring furiously.

Keep to the tussocks in future, Jack !"
said my uncle ; '' 'tis the only foothold you
can trust ; besides, your next adventure of
the kind may not end so well. I once had
a valuable mare in the same plight, and as
we couldn't get the poor beast out, we had
to shoot her."

He then produced the flask, which he
always carried in his breast-pocket of his
shooting jacket, and gave us whisky all
round. Knowing by this time that the
ducks must have been frightened into the
next county, we started for the road. As
both the barrels of my gun were clogged

with filth, I handed it to Shawn, but my
uncle managed to pick up a couple of solitary
snipe which rose at his very feet.

When we reached the road we found the
girls, who had watched the adventure, in a
state of great excitement. They had all
changed places too. Aileen and Nora were
seated in the phaeton. Oona and Biddy
had managed somehow to get into the
saddles, and they one and all insisted that
I must mount Lucy. Oona's fear of the
mare seemed to me to have disappeared,
but I afterwards discovered that she had
mounted Jack with some wild idea of being
at hand to preserve me from danger if Lucy
should prove refractory.

So we started off again, and after a preliminary
canter, during which I found Lucy
the very queen of horse-flesh, I felt none the
worse of my adventure. A warm glow was
stealing all over me. I bent forward in my
saddle, and the three horses, keeping well
abreast, galloped merrily along the road.

In this manner we entered the village of
Kildare.

The village proper consisted of a mere
handful of huts, which looked as if they
had been thrown up at random on the bog,
just as moles throw up their tiny mounds of
earth. They seemed to me to resemble the
cabins inhabited by the Esquimaux, lying
low, built of mud, and thatched with turf
sods. Here and there at the doors an old
woman was squatting on her haunches,
smoking a black pipe, or two or three naked
urchins where rolling in the sunlight.

I took one glance at the village, then I
turned to Oona, who was pointing with her
hand, —

Look, Jack, look ! " she said, " that is
Kildare Castle."

The ruins of the old castle stood on a low,
green promontory, or rather an isthmus,
connected by a narrow neck of sand with the
adjoining land. Part of it was roofless and
uninhabited, save by a noisy flock of jackdaws

; but attached to the ruin was a
low, modern-looking building, dilapidated
enough, but still tolerably habitable. On
the green swards in front large numbers of
tame geese were feeding. Beyond stretched
the estuary of the sea, broken into crisp
lio^ht waves, and shifting; its colours like a
sword blade in the sun.

I had just finished my survey when the
phaeton drove up, and there began a general
discussion as to what we must all do. Of
course it went without saying that Oona
and I must inspect the castle, and Biddy
volunteered to join us. My uncle preferred
a couple of hours on the moor, while Aileen
and Nora volunteered to distribute Kathleen
s gifts, and afterwards to lay out the
lunch, so as to have everything ready for a
pleasant meal by the time we were all
re-assembled. My uncle therefore took his
gun and walked off, promising to be back
at the hour fixed for lunch, while the rest
of us pushed on across the isthmus to stable

the horses somewhere among the ruined
castle walls.

Our progress was somewhat slow, for the
road was as neglected as the castle itself.
It was full of deep ruts, covered with
stones, and overgrown with rank weeds and
grass ; but we crossed the isthmus in safety,
and leaving; the modern building on one
side, passed under a ruined archway, covered
with rank moss and trailing ivy leaves.
We found ourselves in an old grass-paved
courtyard, at the further end of which
was an open door leading to the castle
tower.

Leaving our horses to graze in the courtyard,
we climbed the winding stairs of the
tower, and soon found ourselves high up
among the ruins. Below us lay the interior
of the old building — roofless, grass-paved,
and strewn with stones, surrounded on every
side by ruined walls, broken arches, and
fragments of masonry. The jackdaws roses
sr-reaminof over our heads, and haven-il

against the blue sky. Right below us lay
the sea, breaking against the black rocks of
the promontory.

From point to point we crept up mouldering
stairs, which suddenly ceased in
mid-air, into dark holes and corners, that
had once been rooms, down right under
the ruins, where there was actually a real
dungeon." We had no guide, and thanked
Heaven for that escape ; but Oona acted informally
as cicerone without boring us with
irrational history and impossible legends,
till our tour of merry inspection came to
an end.

We had lingered so long a time in the ruin,
looking over the relics of the past, and discussing
Oona's story, that when we came
down we found the girls and my uncle
actually awaiting lunch. A goodly-sized
wooden table had been carried from the
neighbouring building into the courtyard,
and upon this the lunch was spread — all
sorts of cakes and dainties, baked by Kathleen's

deft hand, with some wine and whisky
to wash them down. By this time our
arrival had become known, and the population
of the village seemed to be turning;
out to welcome us.

Dozens of ragged monsoons, looking like
little savages, with unkempt heads and bare
feet, clustered round the open gateway, or
glared through every loophole within reach,
while the cauliaghs, young colleges, and
men of the village came up to welcome
his honour " and the " young ladies —
God bless them ! "

With their assistance halley and Nora
managed to empty the baskets which had
been sent by Kate.

We bad a capital lunch — feeling very
romantic all the while, with the ruined
walls about us, and the open sky above us.

We were waited on by Shawn and the
withered-looking old cauliagh who kept
the castle. When it was over, we lit up
our cigars and strolled out upon the promontory,

leaving a goodly proportion of
food and wine to be distributed at Shawn's
discretion.

It was getting on in the afternoon, and
as the day waned, the weather grew brighter.
The sun was shining now from a cloudless
sky, and when I looked back I thought the
village of Kildare as picturesque a portion
of wild Connaught as I had seen, and the
old castle, in whose shadow I was standing,
looked the most charming of all. For the
sun sparkled amidst its ivy-leaves, and revivified
the crumbling walls, while below it
the sea washed with ceaseless music.

Look," said Oona, laying her hand upon
my arm, and pointing.

Some yards distant, and right under the
ruins, there lay an old well, reached by a
few broken steps. It seemed desolate and
disused, but, looking down, I saw the water
black and cool.

"Do you know," whispered Oona, *the
people here say that, nt some seasons of the

year, the water down there is red ! Two
brothers fought there, and the murdered
body of one was found floating in the well ! "

Have you got that in the story ? "

Oh, don't laugh ! " said Oona. '' These
terrible things are true ! "

We took a short stroll along the water's
edge, talking of this and other superstitions.
When we got back to the castle, we found
that everything was in readiness for our
departure, — the horses were saddled, the
ponies harnessed, the phaeton neatly packed
ao'ain. The crowd around the castle walls
had increased ; its members were evidently
waiting to give us a wild cheer as we started.
Again the discussion began as to how we
must dispose ourselves, when Oona spoke.

We will start just as we did this morning,"
she said, " and when we're halfway
we'll - change. You three will take the
phaeton, and we'll have the horses for the
last canter home — eh, Jack ? "

But I shook my head.

VOL. I. I

Won't do at all," I said. " We will
take the horses in starting, and when were
cantered halfway, you must be content to
sit quietly in the phaeton, Oona, and I'll
drive the ponies home ! "

I had reflected that during the latter half
of our return journey the earth would be
plunged in that dim uncertain light which
makes the most prosaic soul romantic — that
during this time I should love to be seated
in the phaeton with Oona nestling on the
rugs by my side, and probably her little
hand lying warm and tremulous on mine.

My wishes carried the day, and during
the latter half of that return journey I felt
like a man entranced. When I pulled up
the ponies at the door of the Lodge, and
saw Kate standing on the threshold with
a candle in her hand, I startled as one
awakening from a dream. I extricated
Oona from her rugs, and lifted her out,
and as I did so I saw that her eyes were
sparkling with a dreamy kind of joy, and

her cheeks were suffused with love's own
red.

I followed Kate into the Lodo-e, and, in
answer to her inquiry, assured her it had
been the happiest day I had ever spent in
my life.

I went to bed very early that night, but
when once I was comfortably settled on my
pillows I took out Oona's manuscript, and
proceeded to read her story.

Here it is.

How the wind blew ! How the rain
poured ! The substantial walls of Kildare
Castle seemed to be shaken to their foundations,
and above the dreary moaning of
the wind came the ceaseless patter of
the rain.

The Lord preserve us ! what a night,"
said Bridget O'Rook, as she threw a liberal
supply of turf on the blazing kitchen fire ;

and as if it wasn't bad enough to listen to
the wind and the rain, there's the whole of
ye sitting like twitches. It's a poor place is
Kildare Castle when Master Conn is away !
Andy Beg, ye lazy loon ye ! if ye're any life
in ye, play us a tune ; and if ye cannot dance
patter-a- joie, or sing a song, or tell a tale.
Owen More, ye might as well have stayed
in yer own house to-night ! "

I'll play ye a tune, an' welcome, Bridget,
machine'' said the ragged-looking ruffian
addressed, as he polished his tin-whistle on
his ragged coat-sleeve ; " only I was thinking
that maybe the master wouldn't be so
well pleased to hear us to-night."

And why not, pray ? " sharply returned
Bridget. " Isn't it the young master who
left us two years ago to go to America that
we're ex petting home ; and hasn't Master
Conn gone to fetch home one that we shall
all be proud of ? This night should be a
night of rejoicing, Owen Mare ! "

And that's true enough, Mistress Bridget.

But, in troth, I'm hoping the young master
won't come to-night. God help them that
this wailing wind blows home ! "

With eyes staring wide in astonishment,
and a frown of resentment on her brow,
Bridget was about to reply, when the kitchen-door
suddenly opened, and another figure
crept in. The rain beat in behind the newcomer,
and the fierce gusts of wind scattered
the white ashes on the hearth ; but the door
was quickly banged to, and the new-comer
unslung a canvas bag which was buckled
around his rain - drenched shoulders, and
threw it on to the kitchen table.

No letters to-night, Mistress Bridget,
but good news!" he said. 'the cutter,
wit the young master on board, is in the
shelter of Mackinray, and by this time the
young master has landed I "

'sis that true, Shamus O'Neil ? "

Sure enough. I was crossing the sands
wit the letters, and when I saw the light,
and knew well enough what it was, I just

gave the word to the boys that were on the
shore, and they took the ferry-boat out, and
then they gave one shout to tell me that the
young master was landing ! "

Not a word answered Bridget ; but she
left the kitchen, tripped nimbly along the
hall, and gently opened the library door.

Mr Antony is come, yer honour," she
said, to an old gentleman who sat reading
by the fire. Her words were literally true.
No sooner had she uttered them than a wild
banging and shouting was heard without,
and, on the hall-door being thrown open, a
dark figure strode in.

The heavy gust of wind which blew him
across the threshold was so confusing that
none could see his face ; but Bridget, recognising
the deformed figure wrapped in the
heavy ulster, and wearing a dripping wide-awake
hat, said, as she hastily stepped back
out of the region of the wind and rain, —

*' Yer welcome, Mr Antony ! "

It's a wild night I've brought with me,

Bridget," returned Antony Eoss. " Pile up
the kitchen fire, give the skipper some supper,
and the boys a glass all round, for we're
drenched to the skin." Then passing into
the library, and taking his father's hand, he
asked quickly, —

'' Is Alma here ? "

Miss Clifford ? " returned the old man,
who still held the hand of his drenched and
storm - tossed son. " No, she's not here,
Antony. What madcap freak made you
weather the storm to-night % "

The young man laughed.

I'm not sugar to be blown away by a
puff of wind, or melted with a little rain.
The skipper wanted to turn tail when the
storm began, but I determined to push
on. I thought Alma would be here, and
I wanted to be able to welcome her
home."

The old man smiled.

** If you are not sugar, Antony, my boy,
you're soft enough about Miss Clifford. But

put your mind at rest about lier to-night ;
she's safe with Conn ! "

In a moment, as the old man mentioned
that name, he saw the features of his son
contract as with acute pain, the sun-tanned
cheek turned white as death, the powerful
hands grew cold and tremulous.

Conn ! " he echoed faintly ; " has lie
gone to her?"

Yes, he has gone," returned the old man
quickly, as he narrowly watched the face of
his son. *' The poor child was naturally
unhinged by her father's sudden death, and
could not travel so far alone ; and as Conn
was at home, and as he is soon to be her
brother, why what could I do but send him
to bring her here ? "

The old man paused, but still his son said
nothing. The contraction of agony had
left his face, but still his cheeks where pale,
his hands cold and clammy.

Antony," said the old man, placing his
trembling hand on his son's broad shoulder,

'* ever since you left this house two years
ago, I have prayed nightly to God that the
bitterness might be taken from your heart
ere ou came back again — yes, prayed that
you two might learn to love one another, and
that the curse of Cain which was for ever overhanging;
our house mig-ht at length be cleared
away. My boy, don't let me think that I have
prayed in vain ! For God's sake, let me see
you like brothers for once ; let me know that
you can love one another before I die ! "

I love Conn f " repeated the young man
dreamily, wiping the cold perspiration which
had gathered on his brow. " I have tried

o

not to hate him, father, but what cause have
I to love him ? "

He is your brother ! "

Yes, he is my brother ; and all his life
his aim has been to blacken the earth forme.
He made me what I am. If I made
a friend, he stepped in and robbed me of
that friend. He knew I had your affection,
he tried to alienate that ; if I won any

love, he tore it from me ; he has been to me
like the blight that passes over the earth,
and withers ujJ the leaves and flowers ; and
yet, father, if he leaves me Alma Clifford,
you shall not have prayed in vain ! I shall
be able to put my hand in his and say, ' Conn,
acushla ! henceforth let us be brothers. I
forgive you all ! '"

With a wild, nervous, tremulous clasp, he
pressed the hand which lay in his ; then he
turned hurriedly, and left the room. He
passed along the dimly-lighted hall, up the
old oak stairs, and into a spacious old-fashioned
chamber, where a turf fire was
smouldering on the hearth. He threw off
his saturated overcoat, sank into a chair
which was drawn up beside the fire, thrust
his hand into his breast, and drew forth a
picture. A miniature, painted in softly tinted
colours, and representing the head of a lovely
girl. The face was turned upward, revealing
the soft outline of throat and bust, and delicately
tinted cheeks set in a wealth of golden

hair. The soft red lips were smiling, the
lustrous eyes, shaded with slumbrous lids
and long dark lashes, were gazing full into
the dark silent face which bent above. All
round the room the wind wailed, and upon
the windows rattled the heavy drops of rain ;
through the halls of the old castle the faint
sounds of music were wafted, mingled with
the merry laughter of boys and girls.

Seen in the dim light of the room, Antony
Ross looked handsome enough ; but his head
was set low down behind his shoulders, ibis
breast protruded, and his back had a decided
hump. This defect of his figure had told
upon his health, so that he was strangely
pale for a man accustomed to face sun and
wind in all weathers.

Scarcely hearing, and utterly indifferent,
the young master of the old house sat alone
gazing at the picture in his hand. Presently
his head bent down lower, and with burning
lips he kissed the cold shining glass*'

My Alma ! " he murmured. '' My hope,

my love, my life, — yes, with you by my
side I could forgive him ; but if he came
between you and me, I think that I should
kill him ! "

11.

While the eyes of the picture were
gazing into the dark face of the man who
sat alone in the lonely room, the eyes of
the original of that picture were lowered
before the gaze of another man. Miss
Clifford and her escort Conn Eoss having
been overtaken by the storm which raged
a whole day and night along the north-west
coast, had been compelled to break their
journey, and seek shelter in a village which
lay some twenty miles from Kildare Castle.
When, therefore, the shadows of night fell
upon the land, when the wind was moaning,
the rain pouring, the sea raging, she
sat in warmth and comfort reclining listlessly
in an easy-chair, her companion by
her side.

Conn was a young man of about two-and-twenty,
tall and shapely, with broad
powerful shoulders and a finely moulded
head and face. His features were Grecian
in outline, his cheeks faintly tanned with
the sun ; a fair moustache shaded his
mouth, and his head was covered with a
wealth of nut-brown hair. He had so often
heard that he was the handsomest fellow
in Connaught that he had at length accepted
the belief that, take him all in all,
there were few to approach him ; hence,
therefore, that air of perfect self-confidence
and calm self-contentment, which in many
other men would have been an ofi"3nce.
In Conn, however, there was such an air of
simple manliness and bonhomie as to disarm
all severity, and win affection for him
wherever he went.

-Alma Clifford sat in her chair, ostensibly
holding her red-slippered feet before the
blaze of the fire, but covertly studying the
face of her companion. They had been

silent for some time ; suddenly she
spoke, —

Do you know, Mr Eoss, when I first
saw you I thought you were Antony ! "

He looked up quickly, then he threw
back his head and laughed gaily.

'* You don't say so ! " he exclaimed ; and
at his merriment the girl's face fell.

Well," she returned, more tartly,
there was nothing in that to make you
laugh so ! He is your brother, and I think
you all resemble each other ! "

Conn did not reply this time. At this bold
assertion both his merriment and his speech
seemed to have got a sudden check.

When I saw him last," continued the
girl, " I was certainly only ten years old,
and at that age one does not notice much,
but it seems to me, from what I remember
of him, that he must be very like you."

Again she glanced half eagerly towards
him, but his head was turned away and he
said nothing.

"Well, cii I not right?" she continued
impatiently, for there was something in his
manner which annoyed her ; " are you not
considered like each other ? "

He rose abruptly, walked up and down
the room, with his face still averted, and
replied, —

Well, yes, now you mention it, I suppose
we are."

Presently he ceased walking, drew his
chair up beside her, and asked, bending low
and looking into her face, —

Well, Alma, are you satisfied ? "
Yes," she answered dreamily.
He smiled, but her face remained grave.
At that moment her gaze was riveted on
the past, and she saw standing before hera
lad with flashing dark eyes and bright
handsome face, who said, " Good-bye, Alma,
good-bye ; you are my little sweetheart,
remember, and when I am a man I shall
come and marry you." How she had loved
that child, and though she had not seen

him for eight long, weary years, how the
memory of that hest parting still made her
heart beat.

It was the memory of that time which
had made her so pliant to her father's
wishes, so ready, nay, almost eager to give
the promise which he asked.

** Alma, my darling," he had said, " promise
me that, when I am laid to rest, you
will travel back to Ireland and marry young
Antony Eoss."

And Alma, bending low and slipping
her hand into his, had whispered, —

Dear father, I promise ! " And with
those words ringing in his ears, he uttered
a sigh, and passed away.

A few days later, when Colonel Clifford
was laid to rest, his will was opened, and
Alma found herself a tolerably rich woman.
One half of his large fortune was left to
her unconditionally, the other half " to
Antony Eoss, to pass into his possession
on the day of his marriage with my beloved

daughter Alma. If the marriage
does not take place, the whole to remain
the property of Alma alone."

How Alma had smiled when she heard
that, for she said to herself, — " Antony
is safe."

She had seen fine faces, had many handsome
wooers in her life, but her heart had
remained faithful to her boy lover. Though
she had not seen him for so long, letters
had come telling her of his struggles, his
hopes and fears, and always ending with
a picture of the bright future which they
would one day share together. " My
Alma," he wrote only a short time before,
*' my own bright, beautiful girl, you are the
one golden thread which binds me to this
world. You are my salvation ; without
the knowledge of your truth and love,
life would be a blank to me — I should
think it best to lie down and die ! " And
yet, though he loved her so, he had never

VOL. I. K

once, during all those years, expressed a
wish to look upon her face.

"Have you never thought it strange
that Antony shouldn't have come to see
you all these years ? "

The voice that was speaking so close to
her, uttering, as it were, her thoughts
aloud, startled her. She flushed slightly,
then, after a while, answered composedly
enough.

Yes, I have sometimes thought it
curious ; but again, when I have reflected,
my suspicions have seemed so unjust that
I have crushed them away. His love forme
has not died ; indeed I think that
every year it has grown stronger, and
since that is so, why, I have nothing
to fear."

Conn raised his eyes and looked at the
lovely face which was turned towards the
fire, and lit by the faint fire-glow.

It was the very counterpart of the picture.
The rounded cheek, the delicately

curved mouth and nostril, the large, lustrous
violet eyes, shaded by black lashes.
The crape bands which had bound her hair
were loosened, and the o-litterino- threads
of hair fell in a shimmering veil about her
shoulders, brightening and darkening in
the faint fire-light. As the young man
gazed at her, a perplexed expression crossed
his countenance.

*' By the way, have you got a portrait
of Antony ? " he asked suddenly.

"No!"

"And you have never seen him since
you were ten years old ? "

Have I not told you so ? "

But he has surely seen you ? "

I think not. I sent him a painted
miniature of myself, and he wrote it was
just what he had imagined me to be. It
was-the same, yet not the same — he had
left me a lovely child, I had grown to
a lovely woman ! "

The words were spoken not vainly but

dreamily, as if the thoughts of the speaker
were still buried in the past.

There was silence between them for a
time. Presently Conn spoke again, —

Your father was anxious for you two to
marry, was he not ? "

Yes — very. It was mainly through
him that we were betrothed as children, —
and on the morning of the day when he
went out to meet his death, he was talking
of my marriage with Antony, and he told
me then that the reason he was so fond of
Antony was because — because of the great
love he had once borne to Antony's mother.
She was not your mother, was she ? "

"No. I believe she died when Antony
was born ! "

Ah, it was your mother who brought all
the money to Kildare Castle then. Do you
know that papa has left Antony the half
of all he had ? — though, indeed, he need
not have done so, since what is mine is
his."

*' You are not married to him yet !" said
Conn softly.

"No, not yet' she answered; "but it's
almost the same thing you know, I have
known Antony so long. Why, I saw you
for the first time the day before yesterday,
and yet, because you are Antony's brother,
I feel that you are mine ! "

He laughed lightly.

That makes it very nice to be
Antony's brother," he said. " But," he
added to himself, " I would rather be
Antony ! "

Nevertheless, he found it pleasant for
the time being to be what he was, since
it gave him the privilege of being near
to her.

I wonder why he laughed so when 1
said he was like Antony ? " thought Alma,
when she was alone that night. " He admitted
afterwards that I was right, and yet
he still looked amused. It must have been
because I had forgotten whether he was fair

or dark. Of course he is dark — very dark.
His hair is black, so are his eyes ; but in
every other respect he must be very like
Conn."

All that night the wind blew violently,
but in the morning the storm had ceased.
The travellers started early, for now that
they had got so far, they both seemed eager
to reach their journey's end.

As the car rolled on, taking them after
every mile through wilder and more desolate
scenes, the girl grew strangely silent. Wild
thoughts chased each other through her
brain — thoughts of how she was to meet
this man with whom she felt so familiar,
and yet so strange. She knew him, and
yet she did not know him ; the picture of
him which she had loved all these years
was still vividly before her. But now she
was near her journey's end, she felt that the
reality would be strange to her indeed. She
was at length awakened from her dream by
her companion singing aloud, —

• ♦' ' To the Ciirrach of Kildare

The boys they will repair,
And Lord Edward will be there,
Says the Shaw Van Yacht ! '

Look, Alma ! " continued Conn, suddenly
stopping his song, '' the boys have seen us,
and no mistake, and carried the news to the
castle. Can't you see Kildare ? There it
is, look — close by. Are you cold ? We
shall soon be safely housed now. What a
throne; of rao^amuffins round the door ! I
must throw them a handful of coppers, I
suppose. By Jove ! they mean to honour
you. Look at the bonfire on the castle
cliff' ! There's our old family standard
waving from the battlements ! There's
Father Shamus, God bless him ! and — by
Jupiter ! there's Antony."

Antony ! — where ? " she asked, rising
excitedly to her feet. But Conn put his
arms around her and drew her down again.

Don't get excited," he whispered, "and
don't look— yet ! "

Five minutes afterwards the car stopped,
and Conn lifted her down.

By this time her excitement was tremendous.
She stood pale and trembling,
conscious only of the wild, ragged crowd
which surrounded her.

Welcome to Kildare," whispered Conn,
adding quickly, '' see, here is Antony to
welcome you too."

Then, and not till then, the girl became
aware that a figure was approaching her
with eager, outstretched arms. She suddenly
grew cold and sick.

*' Is this Antony ? " she gasped unconsciously,
drawing close to her companion's
side.

'eyes, Alma, I am. Antony," answered
the man. As he spoke he looked at her ;
his cheek grew white as death ; he made
no further attempt to approach her, but
staggered back like a drunken man.

III.

There is silence in and around Kildare —
the silence of complete repose. The ragged
crowd dispersed several hours ago, and now
the shivering creatures are all shut up,
like beavers, in their little mud huts ; the
car which took home the priest has returned,
and at length all the inmates of
the castle are at rest.

All ? — no, there is one at least beneath
the castle roof that night to whose wearied
brain rest will not come ; indeed, it seems
to Alma that her mind will never be at
peace again.

After the first shock produced by the
sight of her lover was over, she had conquered
herself sufficiently to enter the
casts with a smile upon her lips and in
her eyes ; she had composedly given her
cheek for the old man's caress ; she had
answered his tender inquiries about her

father, her journey, herself; and she had
laughed merrily, though somewhat hysterically,
at the funny stories told by the
priest ; but the moment she found herself
alone she sat down in a strange bewildered
way, and tried to think.

But she could not think. She felt like
one weary unto death. Her head was
aching ; her heart was beating ; her hands
were cold as ice. The deep silence of the
house oppressed her ; she threw open her
window, and leaning out upon the sill,
listened to the wild sobbing of the sea.

It was a calm still night, scarce a breath
was stirring ; the heavens were black — dark,
but ever and anon a star peeped out from
amid the troubled masses of cloud which
covered the sky ; the air was very cold — it
touched her burning cheek and lips, and
gently stirred the masses of rippling gold
which lay upon her shoulders. How the
sea was moaning after the wild trouble of
the storm ! The waters surged in and ov^-

of the caverns, and the white foam was
beaten about the cliffs.

And so Alma had seen her lover ; at
last she had come face to face with the
man whose image had filled her soul for
so many years ; and what then ? She
recalled his letters, one by one, and each
one seemed to be a dagger piercing her
heart. She thought of the love, the wild,
consuming passion of which those letters
spoke, and the memory made her heartsick.
A vision of her lover, deformed and
sinister as she had seen him that night,
flashed across her brain, and she covered her
eyes, as if to shut out the sight, and moaned.

She rose from the window, and turned
away ; she would think no more. Her
hands were burning feverishly now, her
cheeks and lips were like fire. Leaving
the window open, for the air of the room
seemed stifling, she threw herself, dressed
as she was, upon the bed, and closed her
eyes. At last she slept. Slept and dreamed,

for in her sleep) she seemed to be flying
wildly through desolate wastes, and as she
went she heard footsteps pursuing her, and
turning, she saw that face — pale as when
she last had seen it — weary, haggard, and
wild. The great black eyes were burning
upon hers, the arms were extended, while
the livid lips murmured " My Alma ! " At
the sight she screamed and fled the faster,
but the figure came swiftly on. Suddenly
she saw that huge caverns were opening
all around her, — she heard wild cataracts
moaning, and felt the icy touch of the
wind. Again she glanced backward, when
she saw that the dark figure was still pursuing
her, the white face coming nearer
and nearer to hers : the arms were extended
now, and about to clasp her, and she
shrieked aloud and woke. Awoke to feel
the bitter wind blowing upon her, to hear
the wild sobbing of the sea without.

She arose, and looked wildly around her.

She had been sleeping for hours. The

ashes of the fire hiy dead and cold upon
the hearth, and now the room was flooded
with the cold, white, light of day. Her
head was aching worse than ever ; she felt
feverish and unrefreshed, but she would
not sleep again ; the memory of her dream
made her tremble, as if she were afraid.
She closed her window, and at once proceeded
mechanically enough, and with little
thought of her appearance, to make her
toilet for the day. When this was done,
she opened her door and listened. No one
was astir. She put on her hat and jacket,
then softly descended the stairs, and left
the house.

A dreary landscape surrounded Kildare
Castle, and before it was the sweep of the
open sea. The old standard, a strip of
green decorated with a harp of gold, hung
like a limp rag above the battlements, and
the cold, bare walls looked very chilly,
set as they where in a dark background of
england and mist. For miles around

stretched black, boggy wastes, desolate as
the wastes of her dream, relieved only by
mouldering freestone walls and wretched
hovels of mud and straw. Far away, like
a white face staring at her from the bog,
she saw a little chapel, and near to it,
crouching beneath its wing, the tumbledown
residence of Father Shamus. Although
it was still early, wretched figures,
male and female, clad in picturesque rags,
and carrying creels upon their backs, were
trudging hither and thither across the bog,
and one or two currants were sailing, like
black specks, upon the sea. All was placid,
cold and grey. The waters of the sea were
peaceful, save where the great black caverns
sucked them in, then cast them back a mass
of seething foam ; but far away, where the
england rose to hills, the mist fell, veiling
the topmost peaks, and darkening into a
threatening line along the horizon.

Taking mechanically a path which led
along the cliffs, Alma walked slowly on.

She was still too dazed to think, but her
large, lustrous eyes dreamily swept the
scene around her. She looked at the white
gulls which came hovering in the air above
her, at the black cormorants which darkened
the rocks below, and she listened dreamily
to the washing of the waves, and opened
her lips to drink in the keen fresh air, but
all the while her soul was far away. Presently
she paused and looked back.

There, on the summit of the hill, stood
Kildare Castle, its chimneys now sending
forth thin lines of blue smoke, the folds
of its tattered standard shaken out by the
rising breeze, and waving faintly. Then
she sat down on a boulder which lay close
to the edge of the high cliff, and turned
her face towards the sea.

How long she remained thus she did
not know. Her trance at length was
broken by the sound of a human voice.

So I have found you at last," it said.
Do you know I have been searching about

for the last-half hour, and when I could
not find you, I began to think that you
had run away ? "

IV.

Alma did not require to raise her eyes
to recognise the speaker ; she knew that
the rich, full-toned voice belonged to Conn.

Yes, there lie stood, looking handsomer
than ever that morning, with the flush of
health on his brown cheek, the light of
laughter in his bright blue eyes. How
tall and fair, and powerful he was ; and
this morning he seemed to hold himself
erect and throw up his head with a
prouder air than usual ; and when, in his
merry courteous way, he raised his right
hand and swept oft' his hat, the sunlight,
struggling faintly through the dewy mist,
just touched with gold his clustering curls
of hair, while the breeze swept caressingly
across bis bold white brow !

As Alma, raising her eyes, belied him,
she felt her pale f\ice flush, then with a
quick, almost petulant movement, she
turned her head away, and took no notice
whatever of his extended hand.

Why, what is the matter ? " asked
Conn, taking a seat on the cliff before
her, and thrusting his rejected hand into
the pocket of his coat ; and then seeing
that her lips were quivering, her eyes filling
with tears, he added quickly, — *' Alma,
what have I done to pain you ? "

It is not what you have done, but
what you have not done ! " returned the
girl. "Do you think it was fair or kind
or generous to bring me here, and never
say a word? I did not expect you to be
generous to me ; but he is your brother,
you might have spared him ! "

All the brightness faded from Conn's
face, he took the girl's hand, and bent
earnestly over her.

'* Alma," he said, " if you knew all you

VOL. I. L

would not speak to me like that, and if — if
you were not what you are I should walk
away back to Kildare and say nothing ; perhaps
it might be the wisest plan, but I can't
do it — I couldn't bear to be misjudged by
you. You say I should have spoken ; if I
had, what then ? You would never have
come to Kildare, Antony would have said I
had separated you, and God only knows there
might have been bloodshed between us ! "

He felt the little hand tremble in his
grasp, the cheeks went pale as death, but
Alma did not answer.

A week ago," continued Conn quietly,
*' it was a matter of perfect indifference tome
whom Antony married, but when I saw
you I was amazed, for I thought you hneio ;
afterwards, when I found you did not, I
could not speak, for I thought she shall see
for herself, and then she will be satisfied to
end the farce and return ! "

The girl's face went paler still ; she rose
excitedly to her feet.

J

"You think a life-long tie can be
so easily broken ? You think the love
which has filled our hearts for years
can be cast aside like an old gown, and
forgotten ? "

Pardon me," said Conn quietly. " I
never said that Antony would change ; he
has no cause, he has got the best of the
bargain ! "

Then you confine the heartlessness to
line. You think that because Antony is —
well, what he is, I should be justified in
saying ' My dream is over ; our compact is
at an end. Good bye ! ' "

Yes," said Conn boldly, " I think you
would be justified ! "

Alma did not reply this time, for the
memory of last night came back upon her
and turned her heart sick. Were not these
the very thoughts which had come unbidden
to her brain ? Had she not said to herself
over and over again : "If the shock has
killed my love it is no wonder. I have not

met my lover, the handsome, brave man
whom I have dreamed of all these years,
but a monster who has taken his name, and
whom I cannot love, and since this is so,
why let the blame rest with him who has
allowed me to indulge in a dream, which he
knew must sooner or later be so cruelly
dispelled." All she did was to turn away
her face and murmur faintly, —

He cannot help being what he is."

"No," said Conn, "he can't help it, sure
enough, but he should have been man
enough to tell you years ago ! "

Again the echo of her thought. Alma felt
her heart pulsating madly, but she turned
now and looked her companion in the
face.

Perhaps we had better not talk anymore
about Antony," she said ; and Conn,
shrugging his shoulders, cordially endorsed
her words.

"It can't be a pleasant subject to either
of us," he said ; " but promise me this, Alma,

that whatever happens between you two,
ive shall ever remain friends ! "

Yes, I promise," returned Alma quietly.
Then she took his proffered arm, and walked
with him alone; the cliffs towards Kildare
Castle.

The day had brightened hour by hour,
and now the sun had drawn the mist from
the hills, and was shining brightly on the
bogs and on the sea.

The seagulls screamed still above them,
and the great cormorants flapped their black
wings on the rocks below.

The waters were troubled, for the yawning
caverns sucked them up still, and spat
out the hissing foam, which spread like a
white shroud upon the sea. Walking thus,
supported by a strong arm, conscious of a
protecting presence near, and surrounded
by the glory and mystery of such a scene.
Alma's troubled soul grew more at peace.

Presently she raised her eyes to his face,
and as she did so her pale cheek flushed.

That quick movement of the head had told
her that they were now beneath the shadow
of Kildare Castle, and as she raised her eyes
they met a pair of flashing black orbs which
were gazing from the window above. What
had happened to the morning ? had a blight
passed over the land ? Alma shuddered as
she entered the castle door.

Alma, my little darling ! is it really
you ? Last night I dreamed that you were
taken from me, and when I Awoke this morning;
I thought the dream must auo;ar ill ;
but now I hold your hand and see your face,
I laugh at such shadowy warnings, and
feel they are quite untrue ! "

The betrothed lovers were alone at last —
alone in the great dining - hall of Kildare
Castle, with the faint misty light stealing in
upon them through the open window, and
silence all around. He stood before her holding
her hands, clasping them with a feverish,
passionate clasp, although they lay like lead.

My little darling ! " he said, pressing
lier hand still tighter, " when you shrank
away from me last night, I thought you had
dealt my death-blow ; see what a coward
love makes of a man ! and for the first time
I felt sorry that you did not know."

'* Why did you not tell me ? " asked the
girl faintly, and Antony replied, —

Because I was afraid ! — yes, afraid ! for
I tell you love has made a coward of me.
Listen, Alma ! When first I found that I
was maimed and crippled, I thought, ' I will
say nothing, — if I do, her love may die, and
then death to me too ! This cannot last forever.
In two or three years I shall be right
again, and then little Alma will bless me
for sparing her the knowledge of so much
pam !

He paused as if expecting a reply, but
none came. Alma's cheeks grew paler in
the faint grey light which suffused her face
and form ; her hands were cold and tremulous
; her heart grew fainter in her breast.

She stood silent for a time, conscious of his
feverish clasp, his burning, eager look ; then
with an effort she raised her eyes, and forced
her cold lips to speak.

But afterwards," she said, " when you
found that you were changed for life, why
did you not tell me ? "

Why ? Well, because 1 was a fool then
as well as a coward. I should have told
you all I know, but you had grown dearer
to me than my life, and I could not risk the
chance of losing you. Oh, my darling, if it
hadn't been for you, God only knows what
I might have become ! Mine has been a
hard life. Alma. Sometimes I have sat
down and thought, ' Where is the use of all
this struggle, and turmoil, and pain ? Why
not end it ? ' and then the thought of you
came back upon me, and I knew there was
one to sweeten life's bitter cup even former


He paused again, and this time the silence
was broken by Alma's sobs. The room was

shrouded in darkness now, save where the
fiiint grey light fell about the window and
the door. Alma could not see her lover,
but the gentle pathos of his words, the passionate
ring of his voice, had touched a
tender chord and stirred up the memory
of years.

You should have trusted me ! " she
sobbed, bowing her head upon his arm.
'' How could you value my love, when you
thought it would die so soon ? "

As her face touched his arm, his whole
body trembled like a leaf. He gently put
his arm around her.

Alma," he said, " I never thought your
love would die, — if I had, the farce would
have been ended years ago ! "

*' And yet you did not trust me ? "

And yet I did not trust you ! I could
not. My hand would not write the words
my lips would not utter them. But that
is past and gone. You have seen, my darling,
you know, and still I hold you here ! "

She was still sobbing ; her face was buried
on his shoulder, his arm clasped around her.

Since that day when I looked in the
mirror, and saw and knew the truth, I have
never had the heart to say a prayer. All
the kindliness of my nature was turned to
gall, Alma, and I cursed instead of prayed !
But to-night I shall say a prayer. God is
good ! I have not suffered in vain. My
trials were all as nought compared with the
blessing[ which He has o;iven me now ! "

AVith an effort Alma conquered her sobs,
and, raising her eyes, looked into his. She
stretched out her arms towards him ; her
lips were open to speak the answer to his
prayer, when suddenly the moon burst forth
in all her splendour, and her light pouring
in a flood through the window lit up a
figure which stood outside. It was Conn,
bareheaded, dressed negligently in a suit of
grey tweed, and smoking a cigar. As he
strolled past the window, he was carelessly
singing a song, —

I'll leave my people, both friend and foe,
From all the girls in the world I'll go ;
But from you, sweetheart, oh, never, oh no,
Till I'll lie in the coffin stretched cold and low.
Then, Ora, come with me, come with me, come

with me,
Ora, come with me, brown girl sweet ;
And oh I would go through snow and sleet,
If you would come with me, brown girl sweet ! "

As the figure passed into the darkness
and the voice faded away, Alma's arms fell
powerless by her side, and the words upon
her lips remained unspoken.

During these two interviews, both of the
brothers had omitted to mention one important
fact, — Conn had remained silent
from a certain sense of shame, Antony
because he wished to spare his brother.
Therefore Alma was kept in ignorance of
the fact that it was no other indeed than
Conn who had dealt the blow which had
deformed his brother for life.

A period of gloomy weather succeeded
Alma's arrival at Kildare. First the rain
fell, then white mists covered the hilltops,
and a damp cold wind blew in from
the troubled sea.

It was very dreary in the day-time, but
drearier still at night. Often as Alma lay
in her bed she was awakened from troublesome
dreams by the breaking of the waves
below, the low moaning of the wind, or the
whining; of the doo-s chained in the courtyard.
Conn was away from home. He had
left the castle on a fishing expedition among
the hills, and was not expected to return for
several days ; but antony was there, and
day after day he was ever at her side, either
on the hills or the sea.

Despite his care, each day found the girl's
cheek a shade paler. Her mind was restless
and ill at ease. It seemed to her that the

sunlight had never penetrated into those
gloomy regions, either to brighten the landscape
or the dismal lives of those who dwelt
upon the land. A dreary people they seemed
to her, with hearts of lead and heavy mournful
eyes, content to live, and toil, and die,
so long as the roof above them remained
the same, and they were sure of having the
waves break upon the sands hard by their
graves.

The strange, dark, gloomy eyes of these
people — savages she called them — seemed to
haunt her out of hope, their low monotonous
voices to ring ominously in her ears. She
was beo;innino^ to get fanciful too, and to
imagine that the dreary old castle was
haunted. Often, as she lay awake at night,
she fancied she heard the rushing of feet
alone; the corridors ; strange cold winds
seemed to be wafted about her room, bringing
her the echo of dreary moans.

In these days, if she had had any one at
hand in whom she could have confided, she

might have cast aside these dreary fancies,
and with an effort have shaken off the fear
which was creeping so coldly about her heart
as if to still its beating.

But she had no one.

She shrank from the thought of confiding
in Bridget, the housekeeper of Kildare
Castle ; Mr Eoss, the master, would, she
felt sure, look at her in such a way as to
quench her confidence at the very outset ;
and of Antony she had almost grown afraid.
Why, she did not know. She only felt that
she was amongst a race of people who
seemed to be of a different species to others
she had known, and that the strangest and
most unsympathetic of all was the man
whom she had come there to marry.

Where was Conn ? " she asked herself
again and again. " Why had he gone and
left her there ? He was the only human
being who seemed earthly, and yet he had
departed and left her there alone. Was
that short happy time which she had spent

with him only a Jrcam ? Was she clcstiucd
never to see this face again ? "

Once, lie had ventured to mention his
name to Antony, but as she had done so, a
look so sinister had darkened his face, that
she had grown more and more afraid. And
so the gulf which was separating them
seemed to widen. After that she had not
dared to mention Conn's name, but she
thought of him more and more, and wondered
at the hatred which his brother
seemed to bear him.

But if she did not confide in her lover,
she could not altogether conceal her sorrow
from him. He watched the roses gradually
fade from her cheeks, the brightness from
her eyes ; as her reserve increased his face
drew darker. KX last he took the initiative,
and tried to o:ain her confidence himself.

It was one evening when they were
walking together towards Kildare. A couple
of hours before they had left the castle in
bright sunshine, but now a thick cold mist

enveloped them like a shroud. Alma could
feel it clinging to her clothes, and hair, and
she shivered violently.

Alma," said her lover bending towards
her, and taking her cold hands in his, " Alma,
my darling, when are we to marry '\ "

The girl started, her heart seemed suddenly
to stand still, she uttered a faint cry,
and paused trembling.

What is the matter ? " he cried
anxiously, and at this the girl tried to
force a smile, but only shivered, and cast a
weary look about her.

I must have been dreaming," she said,
when your voice awoke me ! See how I
tremble ; had we not better hasten home,
for I am so cold ? "

The rain indeed was gathering thicker
and thicker around them, the silence was
broken only by the low moaning of the sea.
They walked on ; Alma could see the black
tower of the castle looming; thrush the
mist when her lover spoke again.

*' Well, Alma," he said, more gravely
this time, " you have not answered my
question. When will you let me call you
wife ? "

She was not looking at him, she seldom
did that now ; but he was watching her, and
he saw that a look of positive pain passed
across her face ; in a moment it was gone.

Let me think," she murmured ; "I will
tell you another time — tomorrow, it's so
very sudden 1 "

Sudden! — when we have waited all these
years ! Sudden ! when you came to Kildare
to marry me ! "

Ah, yes, it is foolish of me," she said.
Papa would not have wished for any delay.
Let it be whenever you please, Antony !
You have waited long enough, God knows ! "

As she uttered the words, the two drew
near to the door of Kildare Castle ; the great
black turrets of the place seemed creeping
towards her as if eager to fold her in their
arms. Alma ran up to her room, and,
VOL. I. M

having gained its solitude, stood with both
her hands pressing her aching head. She
could still hear the sea moaning, and presently
she saw that her window was open,
the mist driving in ; she closed it, then she
pressed her forehead against the cold glass,
and stood with closed eyes. Presently the
sound of a gong echoed through the house
and roused her. She put off her damp
clothes, mechanically washed her face and
hands, and smoothed her hair, and descended
the stairs.

Her head was still full of strange sounds,
and she was not able to see clearly. All
the lights seemed dim, and everything was
unreal. She was aware of being in the
dining-room, with her dinner before her, of
two male figures being near her, but she was
only half-conscious of what she was doing.

Suddenly a burst of hearty laughter rang
through the house, and she started as if
from a dream.

Conn, my boy, you're just in time,"

said Mr Ross, as the dining-room door fi(;\v
open, and Conn, looking handsomer than
ever, stepped into the room.

He smilingly nodded to his father and
Antony, but walked towards Alma with outstretched
hand. She felt her face Hushing,
her lips smiling, as their hands were clasped
together.

Oh, I am so glad you have come," she
said ; then, as she turned to resume her seat,
she met the eyes of her lover, ^yhich had
been fixed upon her gloomily, with an expression
of sinister suspicion.

When she found herself alone that
night, she did not seek her rest ; she sat
down before the turf fire, and began to
think.

*' I was weak and foolish," she said, "just
as I was that night when I told him, oh,
my God ! that my love was unchanged.
He believed in me then, he believes in me
now. I am not fit to be tried like this ! He

cannot be my Antony. I have looked at
him, and I cannot find a single trace, and
yet he is going to be my husband ! "

VI.

From the moment of Conn's return, the
life at Kildare Castle underwent a pleasant
chang-e. It seemed to Alma at least that
the young man's coming was like a burst
of summer sunshine after a long spell of
wintry fog and rain.

All that night she slept well, and in the
morning, when she drowsily opened her
eyes, she heard his voice singing gay scraps
of song, she saw the sunlight struggling for
entrance at her window ; and then, when the
sound of the voice died, she heard for the
first time the musical murmur of the sea
as it washed peacefully upon the shore. It
sounded quite glad and happy, novo.

She bestowed extra pains upon her toilet
that day, and was pleased at the result.

Ashen she entered the breakfast-room she
found bunches of purple heather and will
thyme placed beside her plate, and she
knew instinctively that Conn had been out
on the cliff to gather flowers for her.
When Conn, taking her hand in his, raised
it to his lips, she smiled and blushed prettily
beneath his gaze ; but her face became
ghastly pale when Antony, advancing from
the shadow, looked in her eyes and placed
her chair. What was the meaning; of that
look she asked herself again and again ; why
was it that it made her so heart-sick, and
turned her cheek so pale ; why was it that
it tempted her to shrink from her lover, and
draw her chair ever so little nearer to that
of Conn ? Alma never forgot that look.
Years afterwards she recalled it with the
same secret horror as had filled her breast
that Upright summer morning.

Meanwhile, Conn, unconscious of what
was going on between his brother and the
fair young creature to whom he was being.



trotted, juliet his knife and fork in a
manner which augured well for the healthiness
of the mountain air. Now and again
he paused to offer some polite brotherly
attention to Alma, and to give her a look
and a smile which made her blush. She
was vexed she could not keep her cheeks
cool, for she felt instinctively that Antony
was still looking at her, noting in sullen
silence every change which flitted over her
face.

The girl was beginning to find her old
dread of Antony deepening into positive
indignation, and on the whole she felt that
the meal would have been a pleasant one
if he had found it convenient to remain
that morning in his own room. However,
at length the meal was finished. Conn
pulled down his hat from a peg in the hall,
whistled up his dogs, asked Alma if she
would like to accompany him in a stroll
on the beach, and, on her assenting, the
two walked off together.

She had asked Antony if he would go
with them, but her lips, not her heart had
spoken, and he had refused. As he did so
he saw that the brightness of her face,
which for a moment had faded, returned.

It was very pleasant to wander along the
shore with Conn, and ere Alma had gone
many yards she entirely forgot the existence
of the moody man who was shut up
in the castle, following with jealous eyes
the two figures as they passed side by side
along the sand. She felt as if a shadow
had been lifted from her soul, as if a sunbeam
had suddenly shot from heaven bringing
with it brightness to the sea, and peace
and happiness to every living thing.

From that day the girl's drooping spirits
seemed to revive, and the morbid fancies
which before had assailed her gradually
passed away. She no longer quaked and
trembled at every sound. She slept peacefully
during the night, a sleep which was
harassed by dreams, and during the dusk

of the evening she was not afraid to pass
along the broad corridors alone. She was
learning to love the music of the waves,
the sweet breath from the hills. She was
beginning to feel that to be the mistress
of Kildare Castle was not so dark a prospect
after all.

But what had come over Antony ? In
her newly-found happiness Alma had forgotten
to note her lover, but now and then
his existence was force upon her, and at
such times it seemed that a shadow had
crossed her sunshine. For amidst all this
change Antony was changing too. Jealousy
was gnawing at his heart, and converting
the man into a devil. Alma did not notice it,
but Conn did, and he shrank from the looks
which sometimes crossed his brother's face.

A family tragedy was sending, that was
certain.

Conn determined to avoid it, even
although the doing so involved the sacrifice
of himself. For he knew now, that to

leave Alma would involve a tremendous
sacrifice. The girl had wound her way
int(^ his careless heart, and made him love
as he had thought himself incapable of
loving. At first he had admired her for
the firmness with which she held to her
bond, and he had crone away to avoid
temptation, and to uproot from his heart
the slight tenderness with which her beauty
had already inspired him; Int when he
returned and saw her so pale and sad, he
had felt pity, and since then his pity had
melted into a strange sympathy. The
change had been so gradual, that for a time
he himself did not notice it. But one day,
as he was o-azino; into the hall mirror, he met
Antony's eyes steadfastly regarding him,
and that look awakened him to his danger.

Conn remained in his room all that afternoon,
and in the evening after dinner, when
his father had dropped asleep in his chair,
and Antony had left the room, he took
Alma out on to the terrace to show her the

new moon ; then he told her with outward
composure, but inward trembling, that he
was going away again.

Going away ? " said the girl faintly,
her cheek turning very pale.

Yes," continued Conn, manfully repressing
the inclination which was strong
upon him, to kiss her pale cheek and enfold
her trembling body in his arms. " I am
going for a raid among the mountains
again, and I start tomorrow morning,
but I mean to get back before your ."


Conn ceased, and Alma still said nothing.
Her face was white as death, and her eyes
were fixed upon the pale ray of moonlight
which fell faintly upon the sea ; she
still kept her trembling hand on Conn's
arm, but her thoughts were travelling back
over that dreary desert of days which she
had spent in Kildare Castle while Conn
was absent.

She raised her face to his.

Don't go," she said, " if you have any
care, any pity for me ; don't go again, and
leave me here alone. I couldn't bear it. I
should go mad, or kill myself, — it wouldn't
much matter which."

Conn's hand trembled. Was it possible
that Alma loved him ? If so, his was a
sacrifice indeed.

Alma," he said, bending above her.
"Antony remains here."

The girl started and bit her lip ; she could
not raise her eyes to his, for they were full
of tears.

Since you are bent on going,' she said,
I suppose we had better say good-bye,"
and she held forth her hand. He took it
in both of his, and drew her towards him
again.

Alma," he said, '' you know, or you
ought to know, that I would give my life to
save you pain."

Then you will stay ? " she said
quickly.

Yes, if you wish it, I will stay a little."
Then bending over her he asked softly, —
Was it so very dreary when I was
away {

The girl shuddered and clung; close to his
arm.

Never mind what it was," she said
forcing a laugh, " so long as it is not to be
so again. If you had gone off again as you
did before, I would never have forgiven
you ! "

Conn took her hand and pressed it
softly. At that moment Mr Eoss's voice
was heard calling, and the two stepped into
the room.

They were both astonished to see Antony
sitting in an easy-chair close to the window.
For a moment Conn turned rather faint,
but when he looked again at his brother, he
saw that he was fast asleep.

So at least he seemed.

VII.

So Conn remained, and somehow, since
that short interview in the balcony, the
subtle charm of his presence was increased
tenfold. Outwardly they remained the
same. They still took their solitary walks
along the seashore, or among the desolate
bogs ; but often during these lonely rambles
Antony appeared, and almost forcibly demanded
that the girl should go with him,
and Alma yielded, knowing as she did so,
that after a brief walk with lier lover she
could spend all the evening with Conn,
For they still played and sang together,
while Mr Koss took his siesta in his easy
chair, and Antony from his shaded nook
by the fire watched them gloomily. As
each day passed, Antony's face grew darker
and darker, and the keenly watched pair
began to be afraid to exchange a word.
And even when they found themselves

alone they were tongue-tied — full of feelings
that would not bear utterance.

Alma knew her weakness, and still she
yielded. Every night, in the solitude of
her chamber, she recalled the face of Conn.
Every morning she came down dreading,
yet half hoping, that Conn might be gone ;
yet, dien his handsome face appeared
before her, the joyful look in her eyes
was unmistakable.

It was this soft look of sympathy bestowed
upon him, at least once a day, that kept
Conn at Kildare. He knew he was playing
a dangerous game, but for the first time in
his life he felt within him the sweet mysterious
thrills of love, and when his eyes
spoke what his lips would not betray, he
read the answer in the eyes of his brother's
expectant bride.

But Antony loved Alma, and it was
this thought which appalled Conn — this
thought alone which kept him silent whenever
he found himself alone with the girl.

By breathing a word to her he knew that
he might crush the one hope which had
kept his injured brother alive for years.

One day the announcement was made
that strangers where coming to the castle.
Two gentlemen from Dublin, who claimed
Mr Eoss's hospitality through their acquaintance
with his son. Alma did not knows
whether she was glad or sorry, but she
affected gladness, and determined to vary
the monotony of her existence by giving
her small aid to Bridget.

So, for one day at least, the three principal
actors in our story were parted. Antony
went to meet his friends, Conn roamed oft"
with gun and dogs, while Alma wandered
from room to room, doing her best to make
the dreary old castle look gay.

She begged the help of Bridget with her
toilet that night, and when it was complete
she descended, looking prettier than she
had done for months. She was late, and
when she pushed open the drawing-room

door she saw that most of the company
was there. She could see Father Sham us
and the curate at the far end of the room.
Mr Koss and Antony were eagerly talking
with two strange men. Her eyes wandered
over to the hearth and rested upon Conn,
who looked like a young Adonis in his
elegant suit of black.

Alma paused in confusion, and gazed
round appealingly at Conn, then Antony
came forward with outstretched hand, and
the next moment she felt her fingers enclosed
in a cold firm grip, while he presented her
to the strangers.

Was it only fancy, or did she see them
start, gaze from her to Antony, from her to
Conn, and then glance significantly into each
other's eyes ? No, it could not be fancy ;
Alma seemed to guess their thoughts, for
she flushed almost angrily.

The dinner passed off well. Father
Shamus was in his best mood, and the
strangers talked pleasantly and well. Antony

alone seemed silent, and secretly
oppressed. Again and again he looked at
Alma with a strange fierce light in his eyes,
which made her sick with fear. It was this
feeling of dread which kept her seated when
the punch was brought in, and she knew
she ought to be away. She had thought
it all over, and she knew that if she went
to the drawing-room Antony would surely
follow her ; and, filled with that instinct of
self-preservation, she dreaded to be alone
with him that night.

So she asked leave to stay, and it was
readily granted ; and while the gentlemen
smoked their cigars and drank their wine,
and told their after-dinner stories. Alma
smiled and listened well pleased, trying all
the time to avoid the light which deepened
in her lover's eyes.

Presently the company adjourned to the
drawing-room, and then it was Alma's turn
VOL. 1. N

to amuse. She sang her prettiest songs to
amuse the strangers, and played some quaint
old Irish airs to please the priest. It was
not till late in the evening, when both
Father Shamus and the curate rose to go,
that she wished them all good-night, and
retired.

Long after the clock had struck twelve
that night, Antony and the two strangers
were closeted in the room known as " Mr
Antony's study." They had evidently been
talking freely, but now neither of them
spoke. Antony sat plunged in deep
thought, with his eyes on the fire ; one of
the strangers stood on the hearth, smoking
a cigar ; the other was idly toying with
the leaves of a book ; both were watching
him.

Presently one spoke.

Mr Ross, you must decide to-night."

So soon," said Antony, raising his eyes
from the fire.

Not a moment is to be lost ! "

'' If I refuse ? "

You will in all probability be shot ! "

'' For the last two years I have worked
for the cause zealously and well."

Precisely ; and you have gone too far
to withdraw."

Again there was silence, then Antony
spoke.

When must I go to Dublin ? "

In a few days perhaps, at the latest ina
week."

And when I get there ? "

You will be told your duty. The crisis
has come when stern measures are needed.
They will be taken."

Again there was silence long and deep.
Again Antony stared into the fire with
mournful, haggard eyes. Again the two

men watched him keenly. When he raised
his head, he looked straight into their
eyes.

I accept," he said. " I will go to
Dublin on one condition."

'* Name it."

'you must give me a full week here,
because — I wish to take with me my
wife ! "

Love and jealousy had overthrown
patriotism.

All that evening the question in Antony's
mind had not been What work shall
I have to do ? but " What shall I do about
Alma ? " After much weary trouble and
thought, he had decided that question,
yet the decision seemed to bring little relief
to his already disturbed mind.

During that night he walked wearily up
and down his room.

In the morning he came down looking
pale and weary and old. Alma, glancing
at him with gentle, wondering eyes, felt extreme
pity mingle with her fear ; and when
later in the day he asked to see her alone,
she granted the request, if not with eagerness,
at least without reluctance. They
went into the dining-room together.

'' Alma," he said, taking her hands, and
plunging at once into the very heart of his
subject, ** this cannot go on ; — we must be
married at once ! "

The girl did not answer. She shivered
through and through ; then raising her head,
she gazed into his face with patient pleading
eyes, like some poor dumb brute asking for
mercy from its master. She knew that
the hour had come when the very inmost
thoughts of her aching heart must bespoken.
She looked at him long and
earnestly, hoping, yet partly dreading, that

he would read her thoughts, and so spare
her the pain of speaking. He saw, yet he
would not understand. Finding that the
girl remained silent, he spoke again.

Listen to me ! Some work I have todo
calls me away. I must leave home ina
week, perhaps sooner. I have settled to
go, but when I go my wife must accompany
me ! "

This time the girl shrank fearfully from
him, and dropped his hands.

*' Oh, Antony!" she cried, "pity me,
spare me. I — I cannot go."

Alma ! "

Oh, do not look at me like that. Indeed,
I have tried ; yes, I have tried so
hard, but I have tried in vain. Antony, forgive
me ! God knows I would not willingly
give you pain. I have been weak and
foolish. I should have spoken before, but
I did not, because — because I was afraid ! "

She paused, but he said nothing. Even
as she spoke he had turned away, and stood
now with his elbows resting on the mantelpiece,
his eyes gazing fixedly at the
window.

His face was pale and convulsed with
acute pain ; his lips were bloodless.

Alma was gentle-hearted, and the sight
of this silent suffering stirred her to the
very soul. She rose and moved towards
him ; she placed her hand upon his arm,
and let it rest there, almost as if she loved
him.

"Antony, speak one word, say that
you forgive me. Indeed, indeed, it is
better thus. The money that my father
left you shall be yours just the same as if
we had married, and I will respect and care
for you always as a friend, and as a
brother

As she uttered the last word, Antony

started fiercely, and Alma, perceiving for
the first time what she had said, grew
crimson.

He turned, and looked at her intently,
and the sight of his face made her shrink
from him more than ever. He resolutely
took her hand, and compelled her to look
into his face.

Yes," he said slowly, '' you have spoken
the truth at last ! Conn has stolen your
love from me ; it is through lira you refuse
to become my wife ! " He added more
violently, — " Don't speak, don't answer !
Do you think I do not know ? Haven't
I ears to hear, and eyes to see ? Well,
it is only on a par with all the rest.
Antony may work and slave with a will,
but Conn with his cursed smiling face
steps in and takes the reward. He supplanted
me in my father's heart ! He
made me what I am. I toiled and

slaved for my people here ; they scarcely
gave me their gratitude, while he was setup
as an idol to be worshipped next to God.
Yes, he has gathered the prizes, and left
me only the blanks, and now he has stolen
the only thing which gave me strength to
live and endure."

'■ Antony, will you not hear me ? "
*' No, I will not hear you ; you have
said your say ; now, listen to me. I tell
you there comes a day in every man's life
when his endurance ceases. My day has
come ! — why should I strive and suffer ?
Why should I bow my head in obedience
to the will of an unjust God? Why
should I pause and hesitate, when I know
that, so long as Conn is living, the world
will hold neither happiness nor peace forme
? "

The girl stared at him in terror ; she
opened her lips, but the words froze upon

them ; her breath came in short, quick
pants, but she made no other sound.

That night," continued Antony, " that
cursed night ! when I heard that he, of all
men on this earth, had gone to bring you
here, my heart misgave me, and I seemed
to feel what there was to come. I said to
myself, ' If he leaves me Alma I will forgive
him all, and try to forget ; but if he
takes her from me, I shall hill him.' "

The bloodless lips quivered convulsively.
With a low, tremulous cry, she threw
herself into his arms, and gasped, —

Antony, he is your brother."

He roughly shook her from him ; she
staggered back and almost fell. Without
one look back, he hurriedly left the room.

Dazed and heart-broken, almost as stupefied
as the girl herself, he rushed from the
house, and walked with wild strides across
the mountain. He had not tried to question

Alma's decision. Giving his own love
freely, he had been too proud to appear asa
supplicant for love which could not be
as freely returned. But his heart grew
hard, his anger and jealousy intense. His
one feeling now was a deep and unholy
thirst for revenge ; a horrible craving to
strike against the life of the man who, he
believed, had struck so often and so cruelly
against his own.

VIII.

Half stunned and utterly powerless,
Alma remained for a time cold and silent
as a stone. She had staggered back when
he cast her from him, and had fallen into
a chair ; and now she sat with her eyes,
dilated with terror, fixed upon the door
through which he had passed. Was she
going to faint ? She feared so. She made

one strong effort, rose, opened the window,
and put her head half out to inhale a
breath of air.

It was cold, very cold. The day was
well-nigh spent ; for that dull, grey look
on the cliffs and on the sea told of swiftly
approaching night. There was a thin
drizzle in the air; but though it fell and
lay like hoar frost on the girl's golden
hair, she hardly seemed to heed. She only
knew that the air refreshed her, that the
wild burning and throbbing was gradually
passing away from her brain, and that she
was able to think.

What must I do ?— what must I do ? "
she cried wildly, pressing her hands against
her aching head ; "he will kill him, and
then — Oh, my God ! I think that I shall
die."

The house was full of people, but she
could not tell her tale to any one. Mr

Eoss she knew would gaze at her with
mildly reproachful eyes and hush the words
upon her lips ; while if she told the servants
they would raise the neighbourhood with
wild cries, but do absolutely nothing.
What was done she alone must do, confiding
in no one.

Conn was away ; — he was off for the day,
he told her when he had come to wish her
good-bye. He had described to her the
route he meant to take, and the house
where he would sleep that night — a neighbour's
house — only a few miles away.
Yes, she knew where to find him — she
must go to him now — tell him of his
brother's wrath, and beg of him never to
return to his home. She felt that Conn
would yield, for her sake, and if he would
not, why she must go boldly back and sacrifice
herself to obtain peace, by becoming
Antony's wife.

She opened the door, passed swiftly-through
the big, empty, desolate-looking
hall, and crept stealthily up to her room.
She listened : all was silent. She took a
cloak to wrap around her head and shoulders,
then she descended the stairs again,
and ran from the house.

What an evening ! cold, grey, desolate,
and bleak, with no gleam of sunshine anywhere.
The hills were becoming dim in
the shadows of oncoming night, the wind
was moaning softly, and the sea was sighing
as if for the drowned dead. As Alma sped
onward, her eyes grew dim and her heart
beat quicker and quicker. The places all
around her — made familiar through her
wanderings with Conn — were almost dear
to her that night. For now she knew
that he was in danger, now she knew that
she must either bid him farewell, or see
him lying dead at her feet. Her heart

revealed its secret. She loved him ! Yes,
she loved him ; though she had striven and
fought against it, trying with all her
woman's strength to follow the path of
duty, she knew that she had failed.

With trembling limbs, and wildly palpitating
heart, she sped swiftly along the
highway, gazing wildly about her for the
sight of a well-known form. Presently,
turning a corner of the road, she saw, close
to her, two men fighting for life.

One was down, the other stood above
him raising a knife. With a wild shriek
she sprang forward, and the knife fell upon
her own breast.

IX.

When Alma opened her eyes, she found
herself lying in bed in her own room at
Kildare Castle. It was night apparently,

for everything was so still. She lay fora
time with her eyes fixed dreamily upon
the ceiling, her ears listening attentively,
but there came no sound. She turned her
head on the pillow and looked around her.
Yes, it was her own room ; but how
strangely changed it seemed ! There was
a dim light burning on the washstand,
and a smouldering red fire in the grate,
and near to the fire, seated in an armchair,
was a woman.

Bridget," said Alma softly.

The woman started, rose, and came towards
the bed. It was Bridget, but how
grave her face was ; and surely her gentle
eyes filled with tears as she bent low and
kissed the girl.

Praise be to the Lord," she murmured ;
will ye take a drink, mavourneen, and
then try again to sleep % "

The girl moved uneasily, and raised her

hand to push back the hair from her burning
brow. What did it all mean ? What
had happened ? Her brain was so confused
and weak, she could not think — the
past seemed an utter blank.

'' Bridget," she murmured, " what's the
matter — what has happened — am I ill ? "

Then her extreme weakness overcame
her; her lips quivered, her eyes filled, and
she seemed about to faint.

Bridget, seeing those signs of distress,
grew more agitated. She clasped the girl's
hand and stroked her cheek as if she had
been soothing a crying child.

*' Hush, mavourneen, don't cry, for the
love of God," she murmured. " No, you're
not well, machine ; but just drink this, 'twill
soothe ye : go to sleep now, just to please
Bridget, and in the morning I'll tell ye
all."

She took a seat beside the bed, and
VOL. I.

continued to stroke the girl's hand gently;
while Alma, completely overcome by her
extreme weakness, cried quietly for a time,
and then sank again into another sleep.

Bridget sat and watched.

As she saw the heavy eyes close, the
beautiful lips part, and listened to the
heavy measured breathing, her tears fell
fast ; but her heart was full of thankfulness
to God. She felt that the danger
was passed, and that, as Alma's strength
returned, the heavy sorrow which had hung
threateningly above Kildare Castle would
surely pass away.

Never would Bridget forget that night,
more than a week before, when she had
seen Conn enter his fathers house with
Alma's bleeding and seemingly lifeless
body in his arms. For a moment the
castle was in a turmoil ; a mounted messenger
had been despatched for the doctor ;

but one of the strangers from Dublin —
possessing a little surgical knowledge — had
dressed the wound with such rapidity as
to save the girl's life. Then he had taken
upon himself to telegraph to Dublin fora
doctor, and the doctor had come, and
after examining the wound carefully, he
had said there was little chance for the
girl to live. But he had stayed and tended
her. And so he and many others had
watched her slowly pass out of the shadow
of death.

And during all this anxious time, where
was Antony ? [He lay a prisoner in Gul-fanny
gaol. Stricken to the heart with
remorse, he had straightway given himself
up to justice. And now he, the young
master of Kildare, was likely to be tried
for 'murder. No wonder Bridget's eyes
grew dim ; no wonder her kind heart
swelled almost to bursting.

The crisis was passed, but Alma's strength
did not return very quickly. For days
she lay with closed eyes, only giving signs
of life by regular and gentle breathing.
Powerless to rise or speak, she was, nevertheless,
partly conscious of what was going
on around her. She was conscious of people
moving in and out of the room ; of kind
hands clasping hers, or gently bathing her
feverish brow ; then she heard their voices
by her bedside, and one day she was
aware of being in the room alone with
Conn.

He knelt down by the bed and kissed
her thin, white hand, and, as he kissed, she
felt his tears upon it ; and, though she was
so weak and ill, she felt as if she had suddenly
passed out of black darkness into the
brightness of a summer's noon.

When Alma recovered true consciousness,
she opened her eyes in the full light of day.

Her room was empty, but she could hear
the sound of feet moving about below, and
the occasional barking of the dogs chained
in the courtyard. In the grate a peat fire
still burnt brightly, and through the uncurtained
window her eyes rented upon
flakes of falling snow, and snow lay also
in little flakes upon the window-frame ; and
while she lay and gazed, she could hear the
sea moaning and sighing as it used to do in
the old days when she first came to Kildare.

How long ago that seemed ! How much
had happened since then ! Oh, if she could
only find that it had all been a dream !

Suddenly she was conscious of some
movement in the room, and, looking round,
she saw that in a chair beside the bed sat
Mr Koss, his grey head bowed low.

She reached out her hand and touched
his.

Mr Koss," she said, " dear Mr Koss, I

remember everything now ; I have awakened,
and I remember ! How long have I been
lying here ? — it must be very long, since
winter has come. Tell me where is Antony?"


He had been gazing at her up to this ;
but now, with a terrible look of pain upon
his face, he turned away.

'' Ah, do not speak ! you have told me,"
she cried ; " they have taken him ; but do
not fear — they shall not harm him, because
he has done no wrong. It was an accident
only an accident ; I threw myself in his
way, and got wounded — that was all. You
must send to them — I will write to them —
they must set your son free ! "

You will do this ? — my child, can you
forgive him ? "

*' Forgive him ! Dear Mr Eoss, 'tis all of
you who have to forgive me. You have
had nothing but misery about you since I

came to Kildare, but, when I have seen
Antony — I — I will go away ! " ." It
has been very sad and bitter for us all,"
continued the girl ; "if it could have been
different I should have been glad — and I
tried so hard — so very hard — but it was all
too much for me to bear. . . . Mr Boss,
give me some paper that I may write — they
MUST set Antony free ! "

To obtain Antony's freedom was by no
means so easy a matter as Alma had imagined.
When the charge of manslaughter
had been withdrawn, he was still retained
on a charge of high treason !

For, during the time when Alma lay
hovering between life and death, there had
been a tumult in the village. First came
the news of a murder which had been perpetrated
in Dublin, and which was so horrible
in its details as to freeze the blood of

the most enthusiastic patriot ; next came
the news that the two men arrested on
suspicion had, only two days before the
murder, been brought by Antony Eoss as
guests to Kildare Castle ; further inquiries
induced the suspicion that Antony, during
his last visit to America, had been secretly
employed in stirring up rebellion amongst
the Irish-American people, and that, moreover,
since his return, he had been present
at several lawless Eibbon meetings in his
own village.

All these were only suspicions ; still, as
they were grave ones, they had to be carefully
and duly weighed. At length, as no
tangible evidence could be brought against
him, he was informed that, though he would
be kept under strict police surveillance, he
was free.

The news of the young master's freedom,
getting somehow into the air, was wafted to

Kildare Castle almost before the prisoner
himself, dazed by the series of horrible
events which had lately come to pass,
realised that it was true. The news passing
from month to month gladdened everybody,
for Antony, despite his strange moods, was
popular with the tenants. Bridget piled
the fire with logs until the blaze flared halfway
up the chimney, while Mr Koss busied
himself to see that all was right for the
home-coming of his unfortunate son. Still
there was a tinge of sadness over all this
joy, for that very morning Antony had
written to say that if he returned to Kildare
Castle he must be greeted with no rejoicing,
as at the return of an honourable man ;
the life that had been saved through Alma's
mercy, rather than his goodness, should be
fairly prized at last.

Thus it came to pass that Antony made
his homeward journey in strict privacy on

a cold dark night, when the earth was
thickly covered with a mantle of snow, and
clouds gathered darkly above. He dismissed
the car which brought him when he was
still a mile from home, and turning his
face seaward, continued his journey on foot
across the dreary snow covered waste. He
had completed half his journey when the
clouds became broken, and snow began to
fall ; it clung coldly about him, saturating
his clothes, while the wind, blowing half a
hurricane at sea, smote him fiercely in the
face.

It was an inclement night, but he
was glad of it, for he knew that in such
weather the ways must be deserted and no
human creatures abroad to witness his sorry
return home. So, with one spark of comfort
in his heart, he buttoned his coat
around him, and resolutely made his way
through the storm.

Presently he found himself close to his
father's door.

He paused. The sea was roaring heavily,
the wind was shrieking, the thin flakes of
snow were wildly whirled in the air ; even
the massive turrets of Kildare Castle seemed
to rock beneath the furious clutch of the
wind. He walked forward. The diningroom
window was uncurtained ; he looked
in.

The room was empty, save for one form,
upon which his eyes remained fixed. A
lighted lamp with a green shade stood on a
centre table, and a turf fire filled the grate,
and lying on a sofa, which was drawn up
near to the fire, was Alma. Ah ! so changed.
She had come to Kildare Castle a young,
happy, contented girl ; only a few months
had passed since then, and yet, as she lay
there, with the lamplight and firelight upon
her, Antony saw that she had been turned

into a sorrowful woman. And yet she had
had the heart to forgive — to intercede for
the man who had struck so cruelly at her
own.

He moved away from the window. Then
he advanced quietly and opened the hall
door. Mr Eoss was in the hall ; stifling a
cry of joy upon his lips, he rushed forward
to welcome his son ; but Antony, after one
warm hand-shake, quietly put him aside.

I want to speak to tier,' he said ; and
then he entered the room where she sat.

The opening of the door aroused her ; she
looked round and saw him. For a moment
there was silence, then her two hands where
impulsively extended, as she cried, sobbing
hysterically, —

Antony, welcome home ! "

He came forward, but he did not say a
word. He took her white, wasted hand in
his. There, upon her third finger, still

glittered the ring wliicli lie had sent her,
now nearly two years ago — the ring which
bound her to him. For a moment his face
was irradiated, then the glad light passed altogether
from his eyes. Slowly, but deliberately,
he drew off the ring and put it in his
pocket, then he bent down to kiss her hand.

This was his atonement,

Some time passed, and the silence between
them was even more eloquent than words.
Then Alma spoke, —

** Antony," she said, " will you let me do
one thing to night, that I can think of with
gladness till my dying day ? "

Yes, Alma."

She rose and left the room ; almost before
he had time to think she returned, but not
alone. She walked up to the hearth where
Antony was standing, took his hand, and
placed it quietly in that of Conn.

As the two men stood nervously grasping

each other's hands, Alma sank down upon the
couch, and they saw that she was crying.

Alma," they exclaimed simultaneously ;
but she looked up smiling sadly through her
tears, —

"Do not mind me," she said; "I could
not help crying, because I feel so glad I
came to Kildare."

X.

A few days of peace and sad contentment,
such as had not been known for many a
day within the gloomy walls of Kildare
Castle ; then came a parting — regarded with
genuine sorrow on all sides. Antony was
about to try his fortunes in America, while
Alma had accepted the invitation of some
friends to spend the winter in Dublin. This
expatriation to America had, in fact, been
made the condition of Antony's release

from prison, and he had accepted because
he had other, besides political, reasons for
wishing to put the sea between himself
and Kildare. It was arranged, therefore,
that he and Bridget should accompany
Alma to the end of her destination, while
Antony continued alone on his way across
the sea.

It was a long dreary winter, and one
destined to be made memorable by a series
of horrible crimes. A long-suffering and
terribly down-trodden people had arisen at
last, determined at all hazards to assert
their strength, and cast off the yoke which
bound them. Ireland was in revolt — a
species of civil war seemed about to ensue ;
it was man against man, brother against
brother, and the snow which covered the
land was in places stained with blood.
Weak-minded people grew terribly afraid,
and instead of facing the inevitable, hastened

to betake themselves to foreign lands.
Amongst these latter were the people whose
hospitality Alma had accepted when she
thought it her duty to take farewell of
Kildare.

We will go to London for a few months,
my dear," said the lady of the house, patting
Alma's hand, " and return when this dreadful
state of things is over."

Leave Ireland ! " said Alma, with a
sinking at the heart ; " but there is no
danger to us. If they strike, it is only at
people who have struck so cruelly at them.
Surely you are not afraid ? "

Afraid ! well, no — certainly not, dear ;
but I do not like looking upon unpleasant
things when it is just as easy to look at
pleasant ones. "When I am in London these
Irishmen may kill as many of each other as
they choose, it wont matter to me ; but by
spring I trust they will have got rather tired

of the sport, and I shall be able to come
comfortably home again."

Alma did not answer. She went up to
her room, sat down to her desk, and hurriedly
penned the following note : —

My dear Mr Eoss, — My friends, alarmed
at the state of things here, have decided to
go to London. They have asked me to
accompany them, but I feel I cannot leave
Ireland. May I come back to Kildare ?
Yours ever affectionately,

Alma Clifford."

Two days later. Alma, sitting in the
drawing-room at Stephen's Green, was
wondering at having received no reply
to her letter, when she was somewhat
startled by the sudden appearance of Mr
Ross. The old gentleman walked forward
in his courtly way, and taking
VOL. I. p

the hands of the astonished girl, said
quietly, —

This is the answer to your letter, Alma.
I have come to take you home."

So Alma went back to Kildare Castle, and
in two months after her arrival there she
became the wife of Conn Eoss. They spent
the early days of their honeymoon among
the Kenmare lakes. After it was over, they
returned to Kildare Castle, which was henceforth
to be their home.

Thus ended Oona's tale. I read it every
word, then I laid the precious manuscript
aside, and went to sleep.

The next morning when my toilet was
completed, I put the story in my pocket,
and leisurely descended the stairs. The
breakfast gong had not sounded, so I passed
out of the open front door, and was lucky
enough to find Oona strolling about among

the trees. She looked half-expectant, half-nervous,
as if she longed for, yet dreaded,
my opinion on her work.

Capital ! " I cried at once, smoothing
back her golden hair, and kissing her forehead.
"Where does it all come from, Oona ? "

She laughed in a sort of nervous hysterical
way, and looked up at me with all the
shy delight of a child.

You really like it. Jack ? "

Very much, indeed. And now for my
criticism. If you hadn't told me beforehand
that it was true, I should have said it was
slightly improbable towards the end."

I thought Oona looked rather crestfallen
at this, but she said, —

Go on, Jack, tell me all you think. If
I am ever going to publish anything, I must
get used to criticism."

Well, I will tell you. It struck me as
I finished the story, that a man such as you

describe Antony Koss to have been, would
never have come to forgive his brother ? "

You don't think so ? "

If you say he did, I suppose he must
have done. This proves to you that nature
is not art. To make this story artistic and
give it verisimilitude — that is to say, to
make it read like the real thing, you must
write a new and a fictitious end."

Oona laughed delightedly.

"All your theories are upset, Jack," she said.

"Are they ? "

Why, the end is fictitious ! Of
course it is. The real story was shocking.
Antony and Conn fought that day
when they met on the road, and when
Alma arrived at the spot to warn Conn not
to come home, she saw his dead body on the
ground, and Antony standing near with a
knife in his hand. Old Mr Eoss died of a
broken heart, and when Antony's trial

came on, Alma was the principal witness
against him."

"Yes, go on."

Well, she had to speak of course, and the
end of it was, that Antony was sentenced
to death ; but for some reason or other, perhaps
on account of the provocation he had
received, the jury recommended him to
mercy. Afterwards his sentence was commuted
to penal servitude for life. He died
after being two years in New South
Wales."

"And Alma?"

She gave all her money away to charities,
and entered a convent as a working nun.
She died some years afterwards. All Conn's
money, the Kildare estate, and the castle
passed to a very distant branch of the Eoss
family, but ever since that time no one has
ever lived there, and the castle consequently
has been allowed to become a complete ruin.

They say it is haunted, that Alma and
Conn walk there hand in hand ; and several
of the caliphs aver that they have seen
the dark figure of Antony sitting on the
spot where he murdered his brother."

And why, may I ask, did you refuse to
give us the real truth at the end of your
story ? "

Why ? " said Oona, opening her blue
eyes their widest. " Now, Jack, do you
suppose, if I had done so, I should ever
have got a person to read it ? "

A joking reply was on the tip of my
tongue, but remembering the manner in
which my last attempt of that kind had
been received, I very wisely refrained.

The public," continued Oona gravely,
dislike unhappy endings, therefore I have
resolved to make all my stories end
happily. . . . But, Jack, I wanted to ask
you one thing. Would you — would you — "

Would I — would I ? Yes, I daresay I

would, darling ; but what is it

?"

^&

*' Well, I mean, if I were to get ready a
few more stories like this, would you send
them to London for me and get them published
somewhere ? "

I reflected. I was not the kind of man
to do things for nothing, and therefore I
replied, —

'* Yes, on one condition ? "

Ah, what is that ? "

Merely that for an hour or two everyday
you allow me to come to your study
for the purposes of literary consultation ! "

Oona readily consented, adding graciously,
" I will take up a box of papa's cigars, so
that you may thoroughly enjoy yourself."


END OF VOL. I.

II

3 0112 049063610

-. VI

Made Unravel,

SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

This is a novel of remarkable power. The interest is not
only well sustained, but it is admirably graduated, growing as
one passes from chapter to chapter, and this without the aid of
overdone incident or of affected sensationalism. The main complications
are skilfully prepared for ; we recognise a great growth
of constructive power, as well as in knowledge of character and
in simplicity and force of style. The work, in spite of the
variety of character and the effective contrasts, has a true unity,
and from first to last this unity is maintained ; and if we have
here more of subtlety and of atmosphere than in any of the
author's former novels, she has lost nothing in direct and effective
presentation. Nor has she lost anything of her fresh and
vigorous descriptive skill." — Nonconformist.

"The present story is well contrived and vigorously told,
while the simplicity and warm-heartiness of the Irish character
and some of the most desolate aspects of Irish scenery, are hit
off with that delicacy and decision of touch which denote a
thorough familiarity with the subject." — Guardian.

Power and pain are the leading characteristics of the new
Irish story by the author of 'The Queen of Connaught.' . . .
There are no weaknesses in it. Madge and Conn are true to
the life, and smack of the soil, superstition, and fervour of
Ireland. Rosamond Leigh — a Cleopatra without the full
courage of the flesh — is powerfully drawn." — Academy.

*' It is hardly conceivable that any reader taking up this book
will lay it down until the third volume has been finished ; and
it may be added that whoever adopts so singular a proceeding
will have lost a pleasure." — Morning Post.

It is long since we have had before us so bright and fresh a
novel as ' Madge Unravel.' It is far too excellent for us to
give prominence to its singularly few blemishes. It is good
enough in all essentials to deserve exceptional popularity, it
certainly deserves exceptional praise." — Globe.

As a sensational story, Madge Dimraven deserves to rank
with the best productions in this class of fiction ; but it has
merits of a higher order to our thinking, independent of its
plot"— PaZ? Mall Gazette.

VOL. n.

By Harriet JAY,

Author OF "the QUEEN OF CONNAUGHT," ETC. 3 VOLS.

Second Edition.

Graphic says : —

Compared with the former works of the authoress
of ' The Queen of Connaught,' this novel must be
pronounced second to none."

Sunday Times says : —

The gradual building up of the incidents preceding
the wedding, and the dim foreshadowing of catastrophe,
are managed with such skill as to produce the
greatest excitement of expectation."

North British Daily Mail says : —

Abounding in pathetic incidents and strongly
dramatic situations."

LONDON: F. Y. WHITE & CO.,
31 Southampton Street, Strand.

BY

H A E R I E T T JAY,

Author OF "THE Queen OF Connaught," "TWO MEN A^'H
A MAID," ETC. ETC.

TN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. II.

LONDON: F. Y. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

188 3.
[All Rights reserved']

Crown Svo, cloths 35". 6^. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready :—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure ot
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — John Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." 'john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — John Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of "The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat.

"' Phyllida " is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING, By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON and son, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

MY Connaught COUSINS.

CHAPTER I.

■N order to see all that there was
J kM to be seen in Storport, I one
tes^-fer^c^ evening accepted Shawn's invitation
to go with the boys to the herring-fishing.
We started at sunset, and were
out all night ; but as soon as the work was
over, and the faint glimmering of dawn
appeared in the east, we turned our boat's
bow towards the shore, and pulled swiftly

VOL. II. A

homewards. There lay the group of cur-rags,
still upon the scene of their labour,
loaded with phosphorescent fish and dripping
nets, and manned with crews of shivering,
weary men. The sea, which during the
night had been throbbing convulsively, was
calm and bright as a polished mirror, while
the grey cliffs were faintly shadowed forth
by the lustrous light of the moon.

Wearied with my night's labour, I lay
listlessly in the stern of the boat, listening
dreamily to the measured splash, splash of
the oars, and drinking in the beauty of the
scene around me — the placid sea, the black
outline of the hills and cliffs, the silently
sleeping village of Storport. Presently,
however, my ears detected another sound,
which came faintly across the water, and
mingled softly with the monotonous splashing

of the oars and the weary washing of the
sea. " Is it a mermaid singing ? " I asked
sleepily; " the village maidens are all dreaming
of their lovers at this hour, but the
Midian Maras sing of theirs. Oh, yes ; it
must be a mermaid ! For hark ! the sound
is issuing from the shore yonder, and surely
no human being ever possessed a voice half
so beautiful."

To my question no one vouchsafed a
reply, so I lay still half dozing, and
listened to the plaintive wailing of the
voice, which every moment grew stronger.
It came across the water like the low sweet
sound of an Aeolian harp touched by the
summer breeze ; and, as the boat glided
swiftly on, bringing it ever nearer, the
whole scene around seemed suddenly to
brighten, as if from the touch of a magical

hand. Above me sailed the moon, scattering
pale vitreous light around her, and
touching with her cool white hand the
yellow thatched cabins, lying so secluded
on the hill-side, the long stretch of shimmering
sand, the fringe of foam upon the
shingle, the peaks of the hills which stood
silhoueUed against the pale grey sky. A
white owl passing across the boat, and
almost brushing my cheek with its wing,
aroused me at length from my torpor. The
sound of the voice had ceased. Above my
head a flock of seagulls screamed, and, as
they sailed away, I heard the whistle of the
curlew ; little puffins were floating thick as
bees around us, wild rock-doves flew swiftly
from the caverns, and beyond again the cormorants
blackened the weed-covered rocks.
The splash of our oars had for a moment

created a commotion ; presently all calmed
down again, and again I heard the plaintive
wailing of the mermaid's song. The voice,
more musical than ever, was at length so
distinct as to bring with it the words of the
ditty :—

"My Owen Bawn's hair is of thread gold spun ;
Of gold in the shadow, of light in the sun ;
All curled in a coolun the bright tresses are,
The make his head radiant with beams like a star.

My Owen Bawn's mantle is long and is wide,
To wrap me up safe from the storm by his side ;

And I'd rather face snowdrift, and winter wind there,
Than be among daisies and sunshine elsewhere.

My Owen Bawn Con is a bold fisherman,
He spears the strong salmon in midst of the Bank ;
And, rocked in the tempest, on stormy Lough Neagh,
Draws up the red trout through the bursting spray."

The voice suddenly ceased, and as it did
so, I saw that the singer was a young girl,
who, with her hands clasped behind her,

and her face turned to the moonlit sky,
walked slowly along the shore. Suddenly
she paused, and while the sea kissed her bare
feet, and the moon laid tremulous hands
upon her head, began to sing again : —

** I have called my love, but he still sleeps on,
And his lips are as cold as clay ;
I have kissed them o'er and o'er again ;
I have pressed his cheek with my burning brow,
And I've watched o'er him all the day ;
Is it then true that no more thou'lt smile

On Moina 1
Art thou then lost to thy Moina %

I once had a lamb my love gave rae.

As the mountain snow 'twas white ;

Oh, how I loved it, nobody knows ;

I decked it each morn with the myrtle rose.

With "forget-me-nots" at night;

My lover they slew, and they tore my lamb

From Moina !
They pierced the heart's core of poor Moina ! "

As the last words fell from her tremulous

lips, and the echoes of the sweet voice
faded far away across the sea, the boat
gliding gently in, ran her bow into the
sand, and I, leaping out, came suddenly
face to face with the loveliest vision I
had ever beheld. "Is it a mermaid?" I
asked myself again, for surely, I thought,
no human being could be half so lovely.
I saw a pale Madonna-like face, set in a
wealth of golden hair, on which the moonlight
brightened and darkened like the
shadows on a wind-swept sea. Large
lustrous eyes, which gazed earnestly seaward,
then filled with a strange wanderings
far-off look, as they turned to my face.
A young girl, clad in a peasant's dress,
with her bare feet washed reverently by
the sighing sea ; her half-parted lips
kissed by the breeze which travelled

slowly shoreward ; lier cheeks and neck
were pale as alabaster, so were the little
hands, which were still clasped half nervously
behind her ; and as she stood, with
her eyes wandering restlessly, first to my
face, then to the dim line of the horizon,
the moon, brightening with sudden splendour,
wrapt her from head to foot in a
mantle of shimmering snow. For a
moment she stood gazing with a peculiar
far-away look into my face ; then, with a
sigh, she turned away, and, with her face
still turned oceanward, her hands still
clasped behind her, wandered slowly along
the moonlit sands. As she went, fading
like a spirit amid the shadows, I heard
again the low sweet sound of the plaintive
voice which had come to me across the
ocean, but soon it grew fainter and

fainter, until only the echoes were heard.
I turned to ray boatman, who now stood
waiting for me to depart.

Well, Shawn, is it a mermaid ? " I
asked, smiling. He gravely shook his
head.

"No, yer honor; 'tis only a poor colleen
wit a broken heart ! "

I turned and looked questioningly at
him, but he was gazing at the spot
whence the figure of the girl had disappeared.


"God Almighty, right the dead!" he
said reverently, raising his hat, " but
him that brought such luck to Mary
O'Connell deserved his curse, God knows ! "

This incident, coupled with the strange
manner of my man, interested me, and I
began to question him as to the story of

the girl, whose lovely face was still vividly
before me. But for some reason or other,
he seemed to shun the subject, so I too
held my peace, and we walked on in silence
to the Lodge.

It was only about four o'clock in the
morning, so, of course, we found the
Lodge as quiet as a tomb, and everybody
fast asleep. We entered noiselessly by
the back way. Shawn remained in the
kitchen, I went on to the dining-room.
My supper was laid on the table ; in the
grate were a few smouldering sods of turf,
which when knocked together, blazed out
into a roaring fire. I lifted the kettle
which stood simmering upon the hob, and
placed it on the blaze, when it boiled, I
mixed two stiff glasses of grog, and called
in Shawn to keep me company.

"Now, Shawn," I said, holding forth a
steaming goblet which made his eyes sparkle
like two stars, "close the door, draw your
chair up to the fire, drink ofi* this, and tell
me the story of the lovely colleen whom we
saw to-night."

Would yer honor really like to hear ? "

I would ; it will give me something to
dream about, and prevent me from thinking
too much of her pretty face."

Shawn smiled gravely.

"Yer honor thinks her pretty? Well,
then, yell believe me when I tell ye that, if
ye was to search the country at the present
moment, ye couldn't find a colleen to match
Mary O'Connell. When she was born, the
neighbours thought she must be a fairy child,
she was so pretty, and small, and white ;
and when she got older, there wasn't a boy

in Storport but would lay down his life for
her. Boys wit fortunes, and boys without
fortunes, tried to get her, and, begging yer
honor's pardon, I went myself in wit the
rest. But it went one way wit us all.
Mary just smiled, and said she did not want
to marry. But one day, two years ago now
come this Serapht, that lazy shaughraun,
Miles Doughty (God rest his soul !) came
over from Illegally, and going straight to
Mary, without making up any match at all,
asked her to marry him ! "

"Well?"

"Well, yer honor, this time Mary brightened
up, and though she knew well enough
that Miles was a dirty blackguard, without a
penny in the world — though the old people
said no, and there was plenty fortunes in
Storport waiting' on her — she just went

against every one of them, and said she
must marry Miles. The old people pulled
against her at first, but at last Mary, with
her smiles and pretty ways, won over Father
John, who won over the old people, till at
last they said that if Miles would go for a
while to the black pits of Pennsylvania, and
earn the money to buy a house and a bit of
land, he should marry her ! "

He paused, and for a time there was
silence. Shawn looked thoughtfully into
the fire ; I lay back in my easy-chair, and
carelessly watched the smoke which curled
from my cigar, and as I did so I seemed to
hear again the wildly plaintive voice of the
girl as I had heard it before that night, —

I have called my love, but he still sleeps on,
And his lips are as cold as clay ! "

and as the words of the song passed through

my mind, they seemed to tell me the sequel
of the story.

Another case of disastrous true love," I
said, turning to Shawn ; and when he looked
puzzled, I added, — " He died, and she is
mourning him ? "

*eyes, yer honor, he died; but if that
was all he did, we would forgive him. "What
broke the poor colleen's heart was that he
should forget her when he got to the strange
land, and marry another colleen at the time
he should have married Tier. After that it
was but right that he should die ! "

Did he write and tell her he was
married ? "

Write ? Devil the bit, nor to tell he
was dead neither ! Here was the poor
colleen watching and waiting for him for
two whole years, and wondering what could

keep him ; but a few months ago, Owen
Magrath, a boy who had gone away from
the village long ago on account of Mary
refusing to marry him, came back again, and
told Mary that Miles was dead, and asked
her to marry him. He had made lots of
money, and was ready to take a house and
a bit of land, and to buy up cattle, if she
would but say the word to him."

"Well?"

"Well, yer honor, Mary just shook her
head, and said that now Miles was dead
'twas as well for her to die too. At this
Owen spoke out, and asked where was the
use of grieving so, since for many months
before his death Miles had been a married
man ! Well, when Owen said this Mary
never spoke a single word, but her teeth
set, and her lips and face went white and

cold as clay, and ever since that day she
has been so strange in her ways that some
think she's not right at all. On moonlight
nights she creeps out of the house and
walks by the sea singing them strange old
songs, then she looks out as if expecting
him to come to her, and, right or wrong,
she'll never look at another man ! '*

As Shawn finished, the hall clock chimed
five, the last spark faded from my cigar,
the turf fell low in the grate, so I went
to bed to think over the story alone.

During the three days which followed
this midnight adventure, Storport was
visited \j a deluge of rain, but on the
fourth morning I looked from my window
to find the earth basking in summer sunshine.
The sky was a vault of throbbing

blue, flecked here and there with waves of
summer cloud, the stretches of sand grew
golden in the sun-rays, while the hills were
glistening bright as if from the smiling sky.
The sight revivified me, and, as soon as my
breakfast was over, I whistled up my dogs
and strolled out into the air. How bright
and beautiful everything looked after the
heavy rain ! The ground was spongy to
the tread, the dew still lay heavily upon
the heather and long grass ; but the sun
seemed to be sucking up golden beams from
the bog. Everybody seemed to be out that
day, and most people were busy. Old men
drove heavily laden donkeys along the
muddy road, young girls carried their
creels of turf across the bog, and by the
roadside, close to where I stood, the turf-cutters
were busy. I paused for a while

VOL. II. . B

and watched them at their work, and when
I turned to go, I saw for the first time that
I had not been alone. Not many yards
from me stood a figure watching the turf-cutters
too. A young man dressed like a
grotesque figure for a pantomime, with high
boots, felt hat cocked rakishly over one eye,
and a vest composed of all the colours of
the rainbow. His big brown fingers were
profusely bedecked with brass and steel
rings, a massive brass chain swung from
his waistcoat, and an equally showy pin
adorned the scarf at his throat.

"When the turf-cutters, pausing suddenly
in their work, gazed at him with wonder in
their eyes, he gave a peculiar smile, and
asked, with a strong Yankee accent, if
they could tell him where one Mary
O'Connell lived; he was a stranger here,

and brought her news from the States. Ina
moment a dozen fingers were outstretched
to point him on, and the stranger, again
smiling to himself, swaggered away. I
stood for a time and watched him go, then
I, too, sauntered on. I turned off from
the road, crossed the bog, and made direct
for the sea-shore.

I had been walking there for some
quarter of an hour, when suddenly a shadow
was flung across my path, and looking
up, I again beheld the stranger. His
hat was pushed back now, and I saw for
the first time that his face was handsome.
His cheeks were bronzed and
weather - beaten, but his features were
finely formed, and on his head clustered
a mass of curling, chesnut hair. He
was flushed as if with excitement : he

cast a hurried glance about him, and disappeared.


Five minutes later, as I still stood
wondering at the strange behaviour of the
man, my ears were greeted with a shriek
which pierced to my very heart. Running
in the direction whence the sound proceeded,
I reached the top of a neighbouring
sandhill, and gazing into the valley below
me, I again beheld the stranger. This
time his head was bare, his arms were
outstretched, and he held upon his breast
the half-fainting form of the lovely girl
whom I had last beheld in the moonlight.
While I stood hesitating as to the utility
of descending, I saw the girl gently withdraw
herself from his arms, then clasping
her hands around his neck, fall sobbing on
his breast.

"Well, Shawn, what's the news?" I
asked that night, when Shawn rushed
excitedly into my room. For a time he
could tell me nothing, but by dint of a
few well-applied questions I soon extracted
from him the whole story. It amounted
to this, — that after working for two years
like a galley-slave in the black pits of
Pennsylvania, with nothing but the thought
of Mary to help him on, Miles Doughty
found himself with enough money to warrant
his coming: home : that he was about
to return to Storport, when, unfortunately,
the day before his intended departure a
shaft in the coal-pit fell upon him, and he
was left for dead ; that for many months
he lay ill, but as soon as he was fit to
travel he started for home. Arrived in
Storport, he was astonished to find that

no one recognised him, and he was about
to pass himself off as a complete stranger,
when the news of his reported death and
Mary's sorrow so shocked him that he
determined to make himself known at
once.

"And God help the villain that told
her he was married," concluded Shawn,
for he swears he'll kill him as soon as
Mary — God bless her ! — comes out o' the
fever that's she's in to-night ! "

Shortly after that night I found myself
sitting with Oona and Aileen in the hut
where Mary O'Connell dwelt. The cabin
was illuminated so brightly that it looked
like a spot of fire upon the bog, the rooms
in the house were crowded, and without,
dark figures gathered as thick as bees in
swarming time. Miles Doughty, clad

rather less gaudily than when I first beheld
him, moved amidst the throng with
bottle and glass, pausing now and again
to look affectionately at Mary, who, decorated
with her bridal flowers, was dancing
with one of the " straw men " who had come
to do honour to her marriage-feast. When
the dance was ended, she came over and
stood beside me.

Mary," I whispered, " do you remember
that night when I heard you singing songs
upon the sand ? "

Her face flushed brightly, then it grew
grave, and finally her eyes filled with
tears.

My dear," I added, " I never meant to
pain you. I only want you to sing a
sequel to those songs to-night."

She laughed lightly, then she spoke

rapidly in Irish, and merrily sang the
well-known lines, —

Oh, the marriage, the marriage,
With love and mo boucher for me ;
The ladies that ride in a carriage
Might envy my marriage to me."

Then she was laughingly carried off to
join in another dance.

We joined in the fun till midnight, then,
though the merriment was still at its height,
we quietly left the cabin, and walked back
to the Lodge.

Cousin Jack," said Biddy, after we had
recounted our evening's adventure to the
girls at home, and were about to retire for
the night, "are you tired of this sort of
thing ? "

*' Not at all. Why ? "

"Because I should like to take my day

tomorrow, and show you how real matrimonial
matches are made in Connaught.
May I?"

I assented, and cordially agreed to place
myself on the following day at Bridget's
sole disposal.

Ell just throw in another
heifer, and we'll settle the
matter at onset."
Another heifer ! Troth, thin, I never
will. Don't ye know already that North
has the biggest fortune of any girl in Torpor
? There's five cows, four milch cows,
and one in calf; and two fat pigs ready
for rent day ; a strong donkey for drawing
turf, and three pounds in gold."

And if she has, what is it ? Hasn't
my boy got a good house and bit o' land,

and, forby that, a strong mule and a good
cart ? There's plenty fortunes in the village
that's waiting for him, believe me, soif
ye don't throw in the heifer, I'll just
take myself to another house, and your
Norah may wait as she is till next Serapht."

The foregoing sentences, uttered fiercely
by two ragged-looking men, greeted our
ears as we stepped into Patrick Macer
cabin, and, shaking the rain from our
outer garments, made our way swiftly
towards the fire.

"After all," murmured Bridget, as we
took our seat upon the form, and held our
hands over the flame, " I am glad we are
not too late."

Though she had spent many a Shrovetide
in Ireland, though she had been to dozens
of match-makings, and seen hundreds of

buxom girls haggled over and finally disposed
of as if they had been sheep, she had
never before, she said, been so interested.
For there was a novelty in this case. sentiment
had been introduced, and was likely
to spoil the proceedings. Norah Macdermot
had transgressed the rules which had been
enforced by her people from generation to
generation. Instead of living quietly, as
other girls had to do, instead of closing her
beautiful eyes to any little fascinations
which happened to be possessed by any of
the male population of Storport, and giving
her ready consent to any match which her
parents liked to make for her, she had
actually been mad enough to fall in love,
and that, too, with a good-looking haugh
whose position in life did not entitle
him to become the possessor of her hand.

Our entrance caused a momentary cessation
of the proceedings, and ere the belligerents
began again, I took a glance around
the room to discover who mio;ht be our
companions. There in a corner, crouched
beside the fire, was Norah's mother, a
little, wizened old woman of sixty ; her
two stalwart brothers sat on the form by
my side ; some dozen of the neighbours were
sprinkled about the floor ; and yes, I could
not be mistaken, a little distance behind
them all, half-shrinking back into the
gloom, but gazing with fixed anxiety at
the speakers, was Norah herself She
looked very pretty that night. Her large
dark eyes were moist with tears, her
full, petulant lips were quivering, and
her little delicate fingers clenched and
unclenched themselves in nervous dread.

o My Connaught Cousins.

In a moment of impulse I made my way
across the kitchen, sat down by the girls
side, and took her hand sympathetically
in mine. She turned her face to me, and
I felt that her heart was throbbing, her
hands burning like fire.

Who is the boy, Norah ? " I whispered,
bending towards her.

She shook her head.

I think they say he comes from Bally-gaily."


What ! have you not seen him % "

"No!"

At this point the girl half-rose from her
seat and fixed her anxious eyes again upon
the central figures in the room. Turning,
I perceived that the old woman had left her
seat by the fire, and had gone to join in the
discussion.

Will ye take a small sow, Shamus Beg ?
Toneyy would make it a sow."

"I would not, then," returned her husband
decidedly ; and Norah sighed, relieved.

Shamus Beg picked up his hat and prepared
to take his departure.

"Is that your last word, Toneyy Mac-heriot
? " he asked ; and Toneyy, sobered
a little by this decisive movement, replied
slowly, —

** Troth, an it is, thin, unless, indeed,
ye'll take a couple of pigs out o' the litter
there, and make the matter right."

Shamus walked over to the corner, and
gazed meditatively at the litter of pigs
which were reposing upon the straw.

Will ye say three, Shawn Macdermot ? "
he asked, after a few moments' thought.

'* No, I will not say three ! "

You will not ? Well, would two and
a couple of hens be any loss on ye ? "

Toneyy considered, and as lie did so the
girl's face grew white and red by turns,
her lips parted with her eager breathing.
She half-stretched forth her hand again,
for she saw that her mother was about to
speak.

Ye'll make it the couple o' hens and
pigs, Toneyy, and say no more about it.
Sure there isn't as good a house in Bally-gaily
as Shamus Beg's, and forby that,
there's our Biddy to be fortuned next
Serapht, if Norah is out of the way.
Settle it at once, and say no more."

Thus pressed, Toneyy relented, the two
friends shook hands over their bargain,
while the girl, white as any corpse,
shrank further into the shade.

Business being over, pleasure began,
and as pleasure in Ireland usually takes
the form of a plentiful supply of whisky,
it flowed in a perfect stream. The bashful
swain, who had taken refuge in a
neighbouring cabin while the matter was
being arranged, was summoned, and came.
He entered the cabin, and as he did so,
I felt that the girl's start of astonishment
communicated itself to me. Could this bethe
"boy" to whom they had sold pretty,
petulant Norah Macdermot ? A man of
forty, hideous in face, deformed in figure,
an evident bully and tant. As the
girl was led up to him, she gave a
scream, and burst into violent weeping,
but the storm did not last. In five
minutes she had choked do^^Ti her sobs
and was smiling upon the hideous monster,

VOL. II. C

and the smile did not die even when she
was told that in the short space of two
days she and Corney Beg would become
one.

"And so, after all," I reflected, "Norali
is disposed of in the usual way. Though
she was sentimental enough to give away
her heart, her hand has been easily disposed
of by her parents ; and although
they have chosen so badly, she must
abide by their will. Life is made up of
customs. It would take a strong man's
will to break through old-established rules,
such as that by which the girl has been
bought and sold."

It was late ere we rose to go. The
kitchen, which had been gradually filling
all the evening, was now crammed to
suffocation. The whisky had taken good

effect. Some of the company were uproarious
in their merriment, while others had completely
collapsed. Close beside the fire, sith
his ugly head resting against a bedpost,
his broad, flat nose emitting anything but
musical sounds, sat the hero of the evening.
But where was his bride elect ?
Although I could not help feeling some
disgust that she should have yielded so
smilingly to these well-laid plans, I should
have liked, ere I departed, to have wished
her the customary good luck. I glanced
keenly at the oddly mixed crowd, but I
could find no trace of her, so I quietly
made my way towards the door, and
departed with Bridget unseen.

A keen wind blew from the north, the
hills were white with sleet, and the blackened
sky above portended an early fall

of snow. The wind was bitter, as we
took a short cut across the fields, and
walked swiftly homewards. Ere we had
gone many yards, however, we paused
suddenly, the soft grass had muffled our
footsteps, and we had approached unheard
to within a few feet of two figures, those
of a man and a woman, who, standing
on the other side of the grassy bank
which surrounded the field, were talking
earnestly in low, subdued tones. I usually
despise an eavesdropper, yet I played the
part of one. Bridget held me firmly,
for we had both recognised the voice of
one of the figures. It belonged to Norah
Macdermot.

Hush, now, Owen dear ! " I heard her
whisper, as, aided by the friendly turf, I
approached a step or two nearer. ^' Sure,

ye don't think I'd be fool enough to marry
the ugly omadhaun, when it's your own
self that's wan tin' me all the while ? "

"WTiat can ye do at all, now you've
let them make the match and settle it all
so nate ? " returned Owen, sullenly.

Well, this is what I'll do. When I goto
bed to-night, I'll lave my dress on ; the
kitchen door shall be a bit open, and my
windy unfastened. Now, ye'll just wait
about the house till ye see me quench my
light, then ye'll know that they're all safe
asleep. So you'll just get a couple o'
strong boys to aid ye, and ye'll creep into
the house and carry me off. Now, ye
know well enough, Owen dear, that if ye
can only get me a hundred yards from the
house, ye are safe to keep me, because
neither Corney Beg nor any decent boy in

8 My Connaught Cousins,

Storport would take me after that, if Fd
double the fortune ! "

And don't ye call myself a decent boy,
Norah darlln' ? "

Sure enough, Owen dear ; but then
you know what the others don't know,
that we planned the runaway atween us,
just to get our own way after all."

After listening to the foregoing conversation,
I stood for a few moments in hesitation.
The future of that girl was entirely
in my hands. By stepping back to the
hut which I had quitted, and whispering a
word or two in the old people's ears, I
could have frustrated all her well-laid
plans, and condemned her to spend her
days as the wife of Corney Beg. I now
understood the reason of the sudden stifling
of the sobs which had involuntarily burst

from the girl at the sight of her hideous
lover. I now understood, too, the meaning
of the strange smile which flitted over her
face when she was told that ere forty-eight
hours had passed she would become
that monster's wife. The girl had been
acting a part, throwing dust in the eyes of
the company, in order to insure the success
of her scheme. Should I retrace my steps ?
I did not feel at all inclined to do so ;
indeed, after another moment of hesitation,
I took Bridget's hand upon my arm, walked
swiftly towards the Lodge, and left the
lovers to conclude their interview alone.

Och, murther, if it's not a crying shame
on the whole place ! " were the first words
which greeted my ears in the morning, as,
languidly opening my eyes after a troubled

sleep, I saw the maid pulling back the

curtains from my window, and admitting

the dim light of day.

Well, Mary, what's the matter ? "

*' I'm ashamed to say what's the matter,

and that's the truth ! " exclaimed Mary
modestly, " 'tis such a disgrace to Torpor

! "

Being quite aware that her feminine
love of gossiping would not allow her to
keep silent on the subject, I judiciously
held my peace, and soon heard the whole
story. It was merely this, that as soon as
the Macdermots were comfortably asleep
on the night before, " that thief o' the
world, Owen O'Neil," as he was called,
entered the house, and stole away the
girl who had been refused to him, and
promised to another ; that, awakened by

the cries of the girl, the whole household
had been aroused ; and that the villain had
been captured ere he got many hundred
yards from the house, taken into custody,
and handed over to the police.

And there he'll stop, I hope," concluded
the indignant Mary. " A nice
beginning for Serapht, indeed. A fine
thing if a boy can take away a decent
girl's character, and get nought done to
him after all ! "

The narrative excited me. I dressed hastily,
and as hastily stepped down to Toneyy
Macdermot's hut. Here all was confusion ;
and, ere I put my head in at the door,
I perceived that Norah's prophecy of the
previous night was surely coming true.
The bashful swain had just been with his
father to break off the match ; the girl's

mother and father were in tears ; her two
brothers scowled at her like infuriated
bears ; but her face seemed to me to be
brighter than I had seen it for many a
day.

For some time the old people were
inconsolable ; at last their grief subsided.
Being well aware that, after the escapade
of the night before, no boy in the place
would make a match with poor Norah,
they were only too glad to hush the
matter up, and hand over her and her
fortune to Owen O'Neil. So Owen was
released from the barrack, and, at Norah's
request, invited to spend the evening at
her fathers house. Whether or not
Norah's treachery was ever discovered, I
never learned. I only know that, in
two days after that memorable night,



she was married to Owen, and that during
her married life she has never once
missed giving " a dance " on the first night
of Shrovetide.

Y day promises to be fine," said
Nora, the next morning, as,
flushed and panting from an
early walk, she met me on the threshold
of the Lodge. "I had my breakfast an
hour ago, and went down to the ferry to
see that everything was right. There's
no wind for sailing — which is rather a
pity, isn't it ? for the Ariel goes like
a bird ; but I have made Shawn put in
the sail, in case the breeze gets up later
in the day'*

'* And what about the rowing, Nora ? "
asked my uncle ; " have you sent for
ConoUy?"

He isn't at home, papa," returned
Nora ; "so I've got Mickie and Patsey
the ferry,' and I thought you would like
to take Shawn."

** Yes, we'll take Shawn. Then is everything
down, Nora ? "

Everything, I think, papa. There's
your guns, your brown waterproof bag,
full of cartridges, and the fishing-lines."

"And the dogs," I added.

Oh, we mustn't take them ! " said
Nora. " You won't get any shooting
till you get to Cruna, and then you
can borrow Mr Dunroon's doors. When

Che

comes over here, he uses papa's
dogs always, and he'd be dreadfully

offended if we wouldn't return the compliment."


As we had nothing to see to, we agreed
to start at once, and in five minutes more
we were on our way to the sea.

Only three of the girls, Kate, Nora,
and Oona, were coming with us. Aileen
and Biddy had generously volunteered to
keep house in Kate's absence. Ever since
that unfortunate overturning of the boat,
Amy could never be persuaded to go on
the water.

We found the boat waiting for us at the
ferry, and though sorely pressed by the
ferryman to enter the sheen and have
"just one glass," we resisted — embarked,
pushed off, and rowed out to sea. Two
of Shawn's big brothers and the old ferryman
were on the shore, while in the fields

just above, quite a little crowd of boys
and girls had collected to watch us row
away.

The day was indeed gloriously fine. A
shower of sunshine had come to melt
away the early frost ; but though the sky
was blue and the sun - rays were warm,
the air had in it a touch of winter chilliness
still. AYe took a few strokes straight
out to sea, then turned the boat's bow
and continued our course, keeping within
a couple of oars-length from the sand.
As we went, I looked back at the village,
and saw it lying basking in a golden
blaze of sunlight. Far away, the cliffs where
wrapt in a hazy mist, the jagged crags
and rounded summits clearly discernible
against a bluish-grey sky. The wild waters
of the Atlantic were hushed in oily calm,

and mirrored in the glassy surface were
the surrounding hills. Not a ripple was
on the bar as we glided gently over it,
and not a sound was heard save the splash,
splash of the oars, as we silently sat
and enjoyed the beauty of the scene.

Once over the bar, the men rested on
their oars, and looked to my uncle for
instructions. He passed the look on to
Nora, who was spokeswoman for the
day.

'' I think," said she, '' we had better
begin with a row round the cliffs ; it's
on our way. They are well worth seeing ;
and you might get a few pigeons. Afterwards
we can strike out to sea and make
straight for Cruna."

The proposition being agreed to, the
boat's bow was turned towards the cliffs,

and sped on before the powerful strokes
of our three sturdy boatmen. I had
offered no opposition to the plan ; indeed,
at that moment I felt too lazily happy to
oppose anything. I was stretched, half
reclining, half sitting, among the rugs in
the stern, close to Oona. When I was
not looking at the scenery I was covertly
watching her ; and in my own mind I
judged the latter prospect the fairer of
the two.

She certainly looked very charming that
day, clad in an elegantly-cut costume of
serge, of the palest blue, with her golden
hair half hidden beneath the soft brim of
a blue hat. She had on her lap a volume
of old legends which I had recommended
her to read, and her gentle, dreamy eyes
roamed hither and thither, as if in search

VOL. II. D

of materials for her stories which she
worked at so persistently at home.

Suddenly the sound of my name aroused
me from my reverie. I looked at Nora,
who had addressed me, and, in obedience
to her instructions, I put a couple of cartridges
into my gun, passed the oarsmen,
and placed myself in the boat's bow. I
saw now that we were approaching the
cliffs, a dark, grey mass, which rose above
us to an enormous height, completely cutting
off all the rays of the sun, and plunging
us in cold shadow. It was like passing
from summer to winter, from day to night.

For a time we paddled about at their
base, entering narrows, black creeks and
corners, and dark, secluded bays. Now
and then the rowers rested upon their
oars to give a splash and a shout. I

crouched in the bow, expectant, gun in
hand, but beyond a few sand larks which
had been wading in the shallows, and a
frightened cormorant which flew out to
sea, we could find nothing. The men
phlegmatically returned to their work, and
we again sped onwards.

Then we entered a narrow passage, cut
between two enormous cliffs, one of which
pointed needle-like to the sky. The water
below appeared to be as black as ebony ; the
cliffs almost black, and perfectly barren.

The boat paused.

Look out, yer honor," cried Shawn ;
and he placed his hands over his mouth,
and whistled shrilly and loud.

Look out. Jack, there they are ; blaze
away, my boy," cried my uncle ; and I did
blaze away with both my barrels, and

^Y OF llUMOtt

looked about for the result. Alas ! there
was none. Half-a-dozen rock-pigeons, looking
small as starlings, high in the air passed
swiftly over the top of the cliff and disappeared.
I was so chagrined by my ill-luck
that I forgot to reload ; luckily my
uncle was on the qui vive, so the next brace
that came out, fell like stones to his two
barrels.

*rare ye ready, yer honor?" said Shawn,
looking at me rather gloomily; and upon
my answering in the affirmative, he put his
hands over his mouth, and whistled again,
while his brothers rattled and splashed with
the oars. Three more birds flew swiftly
out, and again my barrels were discharged,
but nothing fell ; then a straggler whizzed
like a bullet over our heads, and fell to
my uncle's gun.

I looked round, and asked him how he
managed it.

'Tis because I'm accustomed to the
motion of the boat, and you're not," he
returned quietly. " Shawn, are they all
out, do you think ? — if so, we'll go on to the
next cave, and give Mr Seaman another
chance."

They evidently were all gone, for, though
Shawn whistled and his brothers shouted
and splashed, no more birds appeared. We
picked up those already dead, and went
on. Soon we came to another cavern, even
larger than the last.

Jack," cried my uncle, ** put some cartridges
in sour pocket, for we re going toland
you, you'll shoot steadier from the
rock."

He spoke rapidly to the men in Irish,

and the boat was rowed up to a huge mass
of rock, which, it being low tide, was
uncovered, and which lay just outside the
mouth of the cave. The water was turbulent
here, and the boat rose and fell tumultuously;
but I watched my chance, and
succeeded in leaping safely out. Once I
was landed, the boat pushed rapidly off,
and disappeared into the cavern.

I set my teeth in grim determination, my
late ignominious failures having made me
doggedly determined to succeed, and I soon
proved that my uncle was right ; with the
steady rock beneath my feet, I shot well ;
three pigeons fell to my gun, and when the
boat returned to take me on board, after
having picked up my spoil, Shawn's face
was transformed.

"After all, a bad beginning is better

than a bad ending," said Oona. "Look,
Nora, when we get out a bit, we shall find
breeze enough to sail to Cruna."

And she was right ; as soon as we were
well away from the shelter of the cliffs, we
hoisted the sail, and the Ariel, guided by
my uncle's steady hand, breasted the waves
like a bird.

Three hours' sailing brought us well
within shelter of Cruna.

It was a solitary island, rising up to an
enormous height above the level of the sea.
As we approached, a sharp, jagged crag
bent above us, but detecting malice in the
attitude, we hurried on, and fortunately
escaped an enormous boulder, which was
suddenly detached, and rolled with a tremendous
crash into the sea.

Next we entered a passage which, as we

proceeded, broadened out into a good-sized
channel, and we found ourselves in what
would have been an enormous cavern, if it
had had another roof than the clear blue
sky. Here the surge was so great that our
boat was in a fair way of being upset, when
one of the men, intending to make her
secure, jumped airily out on to the rocks,
missed his footing, and gently disappeared
beneath the surface of the water ! I began
seriously to think that our expedition would
have a tragic ending, for the surge was so
great, the passage so narrow, that our means
of assisting him seemed small indeed, but
the men, more accustomed to such mishaps,
were of a different opinion. Two of them
coolly secured the end of a rope, and lightly
leapt out on to the rocks, leaving the third
in the boat, who, when the unfortunate

victim appeared on the surface, slipped a
noose under his arm-pits. He was gently
hauled out on the rocks, very little the
worse for his bath.

After this exciting little incident, we
landed and examined the rocks. They rose
up to such a height that the brain turned
dizzy when we tried to decipher the tiny
specks of birds which were floating above like
gnats in the sun-ray. As they descended,
the shrill whistle of the curlew reached our
ears ; we crouched in a corner, but the
wary birds were not to be deceived, their
quick eyes soon saw the danger, and with
a taunting cry of " curlew," they disappeared
round a corner of the crag.

Slowly, very slowly, we made our way
along the slippery rocks — now going down
on our knees, and passing some dangerous

bit on all-fours ; now seizing a small projecting
piece of stone, and holding on for
very life, while our feet searched for a
cranny among the slippery seaweed below.
Thus we passed along, avoiding any mishap,
until we came to an opening in the rock,
and entered a low narrow passage, apparently
leading into the interior of the
island. Here the air was damp and chilly,
our voices had a hollow, unearthly sound,
and it was so dark that we had to grope
our way. As we proceeded, the passage
broadened, and faint streaks of light appeared
; next we heard the deep - drawn
breathing of the waters, then we were
gladdened with a burst of broad sunlight,
and we found ourselves approaching an
enormous cavern.

The channel here was considerably broader

than the last, and the cave was open at
either end. About midway in the channel
was a good - sized weedy reef, which was
covered with great black seals. Our approach
caused a general panic ; they all
rushed down to the water, and swam about
like dogs. We gazed around, and examined
every creek and corner within our reach,
but we could discover nothing, — all was
quiet and peaceful as a tomb ; our voices
echoed through the vault, and our footsteps
gave forth a hollow, unearthly sound. Nota
living thing was visible until we fired a
shot, and then, as if by magic, the whole
air was filled with birds ; suddenly they
all disappeared, leaving the place as quiet
and peaceful as before.

Having seen all there was to be seen,
we retraced our steps through the dark

passage, mounted a flight of stairs which
had been roughly hewn out of the solid
rock ; and, after half-an-hour, which seemed
an eternity, re-emerged into the sunlight,
and found ourselves standing upon the
fruitful fields of Cruna. It was a good-sized
island, about ten miles across, inhabited
by several hundred people, and
governed completely by the master. Some
of the peasants who dwelt thereon had never
even seen the mainland, but were content
to toil all day on the land, to dwell in the
cabins which were dotted like beaver-huts
about the hills, and to rest at last in the
graveyard by the sea. There was no resident
priest, but Father John occasionally
sent over his curate to preach the Word
and administer consolation to the sick.
There was no resident doctor, but occasionally

a travelling medicine-man came, enpassant,
to the island, and rested for a month
or so among the sick. All this information
I got from Nora, who proceeded to inform
me that, during the time of old ]Mr Dunroon,
things upon Cruna Island had been in a
very bad way indeed ; that Mr Dunroon
himself — an ignorant, superstitious man —
had encouraged belief in witchcraft, the evil
eye, etc., until the people had actually burnt
down the house of an old woman, whom they
believed to be a witch, and had finally driven
her forth to perish in the sea.

But things are much better under the
new master," added Nora. " He is stern
in his endeavour to put down superstition
of any kind ; he has built a capital school,
and I believe he will soon have a resident
priest. Look, there is the master's house ;

I think we had better go straight there,
hadn't we, Kate ? "

Kate assented, so we set off — I carrying
Oona's cloak and book, and keeping as close
as possible to Oona's side.

The building which we approached was a
plain-looking structure, built of stone, and
whitewashed. It was surrounded by a fine
garden, however, and backed by capacious
stables, dog-kennels, etc.

From any sign of life there was about,
the house might have been deserted ; but
Kathleen's knock brought to the door a very
neat little maid, who showed us at once into
the drawing-room. The little maid was
evidently no stranger to the girls, for they
all said something to her in Irish, which
made her blush and smile ; and then my
uncle added those kind words of his, which

were always ready, and which made him so
popular in Connaught.

We entered the drawing-room, and were
all looking about for comfortable seats, when
the door opened, and the mistress of the
house appeared. She was a tall, graceful
woman, with a face which, in its youth,
could not have been unlike Oona's. Though
she had passed her fortieth year, she still
retained a good deal of her youthful beauty.
Her hair was golden, her eyes were blue —
like, yet unlike, Oona's ; for at times there
came into them a look which seemed to
transform them, and which I could not
understand. I glanced from her to Oona
from Oona back again to her ; the two
faces were similar, but at last I understood
the difference, — the one had faced pleasure,
the other only pain. Yes, I had before me

just such a picture as my darling little Oona
would present after the experience of heartrending
sorrow.

Mrs Dunroon was delighted to see us, and
she said so in the most winning voice that
had ever fallen upon my ear, — " Though she
feared," she said, " it was but a dull house
for the girls to come to. All her children
had returned to their schools in Dublin only
a fortnight before ; they had made the house
lively while they were at home, but since
their departure, she and George had fallen
into their old routine."

Then she was introduced to me, and I
began to make some apology for intruding
uninvited ; but she silenced me at once.

"It is you who confer the favour," she
said, smiling, and letting her fine eyes rest
for a moment upon my face. " If you will

only shoot over the land and fish the rivers,
we shall be delighted, for my husband's guns
are growing rusty for want of use, and the
dogs are getting so fat they soon won't be
able to walk."

Then she asked us to excuse her ; she was
certain we must be famishing ; the moment
she heard of our arrival she had ordered
lunch to be served, but she thought our
chance of getting it quickly would be
doubled if she went to the kitchen and
helped the maids.

The moment she was gone, Nora asked
me what I thought of her ?

She is about the most charming woman
I ever met. In her youth she must
have been the impose of Oona."

To my amazement my uncle went over
to Oona, who was sitting on the music

VOL. II. E

stool, put his arms round her, and lifted
her sweet face to his.

"Like my Oona?" he said, and his
voice actually trembled. ** Ah ! the good
God forbid that my little girl should ever
have to face such scenes."

I suspected before that there must
have been some strange episode in our
hostess's past ; now I was sure of it. I
was about to ask some questions about it,
when Nora addressed me again.

I am glad you like her," she said,
for we all adore her ; and as for papa,
he thinks there is no such woman in
the world. She is very beautiful, is
she not ? and she is as good as she is
beautiful."

Does she live here all the year
round ? "

*' Almost. She and her husband come
occasionally to Ballyshanrany, and every
winter, I believe, they go to Dublin fora
while, but that is all. You see Mrs
Dunroon loves Cruna, though indeed she
has little cause ; and most of her time is
spent in trying to stamp out superstition,
and improve the people."

Here our conversation was interrupted
by the re-appearance of our hostess.
Luncheon will be ready in five
minutes," she said, and she had us all
shown to our rooms.

It was a capital lunch, capitally served,
and we did full justice to it. After it
was over, we began to discuss our arrangements.
" It was growing late," my
uncle said, and if we wanted to reach
Storport at a decent hour, we must

soon think of returning. But Mrs Dun-room
was horrified. Return to Storport
that night, she said, it was not to bethought
of. We must stay a few days,
and have some sport ; besides, we couldn't
think of leaving without having seen
her husband, who had ridden over to a
distant part of the island to transact some
important business, and would not return
till six. After a very feeble resistance,
we yielded, in reality by no means displeased.
I, in truth, was very glad to
remain, for I was already very much interested
in Cruna Island. I felt I should
like to see more of it, and to know more
of its people.

Lunch fairly over, our hostess set herself
the task of providing us all with
amusement for the afternoon. Kathleen

preferred to remain in the house, my
uncle and Nora were provided with a
couple of fishing rods, while I accepted
my hostess's invitation to mount one of her
husband's horses, and take a ride round
the island. Then Mrs Dunroon turned to
Oona, —

Would you like a ride, too, dear ? "
she said ; " if so, I think I can make my
habit fit you." And Oona assented.

We set off together, and had a long
ride, but I am afraid I saw very little of
the island. The ride, however, seemed to
have done us good, for we were both in
excellent spirits when we got back again.
During dinner we were beset with questions
about what we had seen. My uncle
had been trying some of Aileen's flies,
and was in great spirits at having killed

a couple of salmon. Both Oona and I
had to confess, rather shamefacedly, that
we had neither been far, nor seen
much.

I am afraid," I said, speaking to my
hostess, but glancing occasionally at the
radiant face of my cousin, " that Oona
would never make her living as a guide.
Now, on a place like Cruna Island, there
must be oceans of spots where the fairies
dance and the witches hide. Oona has
positively not pointed out one."

I glanced at my hostess, and stared in
wonder at the look of mingled pain and
terror which crossed her face. She tried
to conquer it. I saw she fought bravely,
but I saw she could not answer, and her
eyes filled with tears. Then, suddenly, I
remembered the allusions which had been

made to some great sorrow in the lady's
past life, and I felt that my few light
words had touched the chord.

There was a moment of intense silence,
till Kathleen, always ready in time of
need, began to tell about Shawn's doings
that day, and the conversation soon became
general. But I could not forget the vino

o

cedent, it haunted me all the evening, and
was still unpleasantly vivid in my mind
when I rose to go to bed. Having reached
my room, I found Nora seated in an
easy-chair, looking very important, and
very mysterious indeed.

Cousin JACK," she said, when

in obedience to her command

I had carefully closed the

door, 'you are fond of reading in bed,

aren't you ? "

Very."

IVe got a story for you to-night,
which I want you to read — will you ? "
Of course I will."

Head it all to-night — every word of
it — for tomorrow I mean to show you

where the scene of the story is laid, and
introduce you to two of the characters.
You would like that?"

I replied in the affirmative ; at the
same time I expressed my amazement
that the story, if a true one, should have
found its way into print, for by this
time Nora had produced a modest - looking
volume, which I perceived at once to
be a collection of tales, had opened it,
and pointed out the first as the one
which she recommended to my special
care. Thereupon Nora proceeded to explain.


It is about two years ago this
autumn," she said, " since a very 
old gentleman, with a long
white beard, grey hair, and spectacles,
came down to look at Mr O'Xeil's

shooting-lodge, that white tumble down
looking house on the face of the hill,
you know, which he lets whenever he
can, with some of the land thereabouts.
He wasn't much taken with the house,
but he called at the Lodge to ask papa
about the shooting, and we invited him
to stay to lunch. Well, it turned out
a very wet afternoon, so, as he seemed
in no great hurry to go, Kate offered him
a bed, and said he had better dismiss
the car which had brought him, and
take ours as far as Glenderig, on the
following day. Well, it ended in his
staying with us for a fortnight. While
he was there, I told him this story.
About six months after he was gone I
received one morning this little volume,
and on opening it was amazed to find

my name on the fly - leaf. Look, here it

is."

She turned to the fly-leaf of the book,
and I beheld, written in a neat little
hand, —

"To Miss Nora Kenmare — part author
of story number one — in memory of my
first visit to Connaught."

Nora had certainly succeeded in interesting
me. When I found myself
alone, I did not attempt to go to bed,
but having settled myself, I opened the
volume and began to read

"The Maid of Crura Island."

The very title caught me. I turned up
my lamp, and settled myself down comfortably
to read the tale.

Deep darkness hung like a cloud above
Cruna Island ; the sky was dark, unrelieved
by star or moon ; and on every hand
stretched the sea — jet black and glassily
calm — but on the shingly beach of the
island the waves broke into snow - white
surf, on which a ray of light played
faintly, now gleaming in sparkles upon
the thin line of foam, now shining like
a steady star on the jet - black waters
beyond.

The light issued from the window of
a hut which stood upon the beach, in
the shadow of an overhanging crag ; the
oval roof of this strangely-situated dwelling
was formed of the upturned hull of
an old fishing-smack, while the walls were
built of loose pieces of rock, and stones
which had evidently been collected from

the shore. Altogether the place was one
in which some worn-out old sea-rover
might have wished to spend his declining
years. About it, in time of storm,
the salt sea spray was wafted ; around
it the sea - weed clung ; on the rocks
beside it the cormorants swarmed, and
the sea - gulls screamed ; everywhere
about the weed-covered crags, the sea-poets
flew ; while far away to sea
the gannet shot like a stone upon his
prey. The light issuing from the
hut, and flashed upon the edge of the
sea, revealed also to the eye a small
rudely-built coble, which was drawn up
the beach, and securely fastened to a
huge boulder lying beside the hut ; close
to this a thick rope was coiled upon
the ground. The room, which the half-open

door revealed, was of moderate
dimensions, and in every way harmonised
with the external appearance of the hut.
The floor was paved with small round
stones, which were carefully placed and
brightly polished ; dried fish, coils of
rope, and fishing-lines hung from rafters
which were black as ebony. In one corner
stood a pair of rudely-made oars, and in
another, neatly folded, was a red canvas
lug-sail. At the upper end of the floor
a small square space was left unpaved,
and on this slowly smouldered away two
or three clods of peat. The occupants of
the room were an old woman and a young
girl. The girl sat in the window recess,
with her head bent down over an old,
stained Irish Bible, which lay open on her
knees, and from which she was reading.

The old woman had placed herself on a
small stool, close beside the smouldering
fire. Her face was of that ashen-grey
hue which is generally found only on
the faces of the dead. Her hair, which
was white as snow, was carefully smoothed
over her forehead. Her eyes were sunken
and around them was a jet-black ring,
which gave to her face a sinister look.
Her brows were contracted into a habitual
frown ; nose long and pinched ; lips thin
and slightly compressed. Her figure was
angular and bony. She wore a plain
black cap, carefully tied beneath her chin,
and a black gown, which was raised up
in the front, and pinned around her waist,
falling at the back like a long peaky tail.
Although she was seventy years of age,
her back was straight as an arrow, as

she sat upon her stool, with her bony
hands crossed upon her knee, and her
pale lack-lustre eyes gazing sternly upon
a tombstone which rested against the opposite
wall, and on which was marked
two words — her own name —

AiLEEN O'Connor.

The expression of the face was one of
terrible resolve and quiet determination.
The thin compressed lips, long hooked
nose,, and knitted brow, were formidable
characteristics, especially when coupled,
as in this case, with a most repelling and
disdainful manner.

Small blame, therefore, could be attached
to the inhabitants of Cruna Island, when
they attributed to Aileen O'Connor all
the power and subtleties of witchcraft ;

when they believed that her very glance
could deal death, or worse, to man or
beast ; and that she was in the possession
of numerous diabolic arts, by which she
had the power of dealing misfortune or
prosperity to any of her numerous neighbours.


Scarce a person on the island would have
dared gainsay her in word or deed, and
it was averred by the peasantry that the
master himself would as soon have ordered
his coffin as have issued the command that
Aileen O'Connor was forthwith to quit his
territory.

Fourteen years before, when the inhabitants
of Cruna Island had one morning
found her, with a little child, inhabiting the
deserted, half-ruined cabin on the beach,
they had looked at each other in some

VOL. II. F

suspicion and intense surprise. Where
had the strangers come from, and by what
means had they contrived to reach the
shore ?

Cruna Island was by no means accessible,
and on the morning of the strangers' arrival
there were no strange smacks to
be seen in the bay. The whole proceeding
savoured so strongly of magic that
the cloudy brains of the islanders were
fairly puzzled. Quickly they pressed
around the extraordinary apparitions, and
as quickly were they repelled, for Aileen
O'Connor met their advances with a cold
and haughty repulse. She answered no
questions, volunteered no explanations,
and finally the baffled inquisitors perforce
retired from the contest, as much enlightened
on the subject as they had been

on the first day of the strangers' arrival.
Such proceedings as these were not suffered
to pass unnoted even on the lonely
shores of Cruna Island. No sooner did
the master become acquainted with the
facts of the case than he hurried to
the scene of action, fully prepared to
excommunicate the pair who had dared
to settle thus unceremoniously upon his
dominions. On reaching the beach he had
found his people congregated together
about the hut. Quickly passing through
their midst, he had entered the cabin,
closing the door behind him. There he
had remained for a time, while without
gathered a little crowd, who fully expected
that before half-an-hour had elapsed the
strangers would be sailing away for other
shores. Great was their amazement, however,

when at length the master issued
from the cabin, and informed them, in a
trembling voice, that the strangers were
Crunans.

None knew what had wrought this
change in the mind of the man, none
thought of connecting him in the remotest
way with the ghastly-looking woman ; still
less could they have conceived the whole
facts of the case.

On entering the cabin, the master of
Cruna stood face to face with Aileen
O'Connor, a girl whom, in his youth, he
had wronged and deceived, and who,
smarting under the sting of neglect, and
after heartbroken appeals to the man whom
she had loved, had emigrated from her
home, vowing upon him some terrible
revenge. Never since then had her lover

beheld her, scarcely had the thought of
her crossed his mind ; but when the girl,
transformed into an elderly woman, had so
suddenly and unexpectedly appeared before
him, his soul was shaken, and he lacked the
heart to drive her forth again.

The mystery surrounding the phantom
woman deepened year by year ; her retired
mode of living giving rise to numerous
conjectures, which in time ripened into
certainties. Scarcely a soul had ever been
known to cross her threshold, yet her
manner of living soon became known, and
when the islanders were assured of the
fact that she spent her time sitting beside
the fire, calmly gazing upon the stone
which was to mark her own last resting-place,
they cast upon each other most
gloomy, significant looks. In their perplexity

they turned to the child for information,
yet here their curiosity met
with small gratification.

On her arrival at the island, Nina
O'Connor had scarcely attained her sixth
year, and the fund of information with
which she attempted to gratify the eager
inquiries of the islanders was of the most
unsatisfactory kind.

She only knew that she had no friends
but her Aunt Aileen, as she called her, who
for some mystic reason had migrated from
the south to end her days on the lonely
Irish coast. Nina was a pretty child, with
soft brown eyes and hair. About her there
was some charm, some invisible attraction,
which would have gone far to soften the
natures of much more obdurate-hearted
people than those at Cruna Island. About

these she cast a glamour which quickly
secured for her the good graces of the whole
community, and, in a measure, those of the
master himself.

This latter phenomenon might be easily
accounted for ; the landlord, although hard
and pitiless, had been somewhat softened
since the death of his wife and only child,
who were lost at sea some six years before
the arrival of the strangers on the island.
The catastrophe had wrought in him a
wondrous change, since, in a measure, he
blamed himself as the main cause of the
calamity. In point of fact, the blame, if
blame there was, could be attached to no
one in particular, unless, indeed, to the
victim herself, who had sacrificed her own
life, as well as that of their child, mainly
through allegiance to her husband.

Ever careful over his wife's safety, he
had sent her to Dublin to pass over an
event which might, he feared, have serious
results if it happened in the lonely wilds
of Cruna. In Dublin his first child had
been born to him, but scarcely had his
wife recovered her strength when she got
news that her husband was seriously ill.
Struggling thus between wifely and maternal
love, she had ultimately sailed from
the city in mid-winter to attend the sickbed
of her husband. That husband she
had never again beheld. The vessel which
was bringing her home, being overtaken
by a terrible storm, had foundered within
sight of the island, and every soul on board
had perished. From this blow the man
had never thoroughly recovered, and the
loss of his child especially had gone far

towards softening his heart to children
generally.

When little Nina O'Connor first began
to run about the island, it happened, in the
natural course of things, that the master
was constantly encountering her. At first
his manner towards her was the same as
that towards any other children of the
village ; but gradually her pretty face and
winsome ways drew his attention towards
her, and on observing her more closely he
began to notice that she was just the age
that his own child would have been, had she
been spared him. Henceforth his interest
in her increased. Whenever he met her he
invariably paused to speak to her, or pat
her soft cheek ; occasionally he presented
to her some pence or rude toy ; and once,
when he saw her near his house, he actually

took her in, and allowed her to pass an
hour or so in the gloomy dwelling, entertained
by his little nephew and heir-apparent,
George Dunroon, while he himself
watched the two in grim pleasure.

The young master, who was some years
older than Nina, was a kindly lad, though
rather wild and irreclaimable in his conduct.
He had spent some years of his life
on Cruna Island ; for, on the death of his
aunt, he had at once been sent by his
mother, doubtless with a sly eye to the
future, to afford consolation to the old
man. In truth, the free, unrestrained
atmosphere of Cruna suited the lad far
better than the murky air of the southern
city where he had been born. Having a
fancy for daring adventure, he was constantly
out exploring the island, or scouring

the crags, over which he hung at
times suspended, eagerly searching for the
nests of the eagle or rock-raven. Nina
soon became a partner in his wanderings,
under his auspices becoming acquainted
with every corner of the island, or at
times accompanying him to his uncle's
house, where the children were like gleams
of sunshine brightening up the gloomy
place. No sooner did the state of
affairs reach the ears of Aileen O'Connor
than she sternly forbade the child ever
again to approach the master's house or
to seek the company of his nephew ; and
more than once, when George came to the
hut to seek for Xina, the old woman
harshly drove him from the door. After
this the children had never again met
openly ; but, unable to perceive the justice

of such unwonted tyranny, they continued
to meet in secret, until the boy was sent
back to his friends in the south, and Nina
was left alone.

As years passed on, and Nina grew to
womanhood, she saw that a cloud was
gradually darkening her horizon. The islanders
grew less kindly in their manner
towards her ; soon they began to shun
her altogether ; and once or twice she even
noticed the master shrink from her very
glance. These signs of hostility were only
preparatory to the assertion, which gradually
became whispered about, that the girl
was affected with the " evil eye," a curse
which she had doubtless inherited from her
diabolic relative. Soon, indeed, it was
most emphatically averred that one glance
from her eye had actually struck the widow

Monnaghan's black cow as dead as a stone,
and that little Shamus Beg, the fiddler's
son, had never been able to leave his chair
since Nina's looks had last rested upon his
face. Finding it utterly hopeless to correct
the reports which where thus circulated concerning
her, Nina was fain at IcDgth to
shrug her shoulders and bow her head, in
silent concession. Being thus debarred
from all social intercourse with her neigh-hours,
utterly companionless, save for the
gloomy society of her aunt, the girl thenceforth
led the life of a recluse. She felt
that her presence created disgust, malignant
suspicion, and sometimes hatred ; and she
knew that, were it not for the evil attributes
with which she and her aunt were
supposed to be endowed, some consummate
evil would surely be meditated against them.

In this moral atmosphere she dwelt.
Her days were spent in lonely wanderings
on the island ; her evenings in reading
aloud to her aunt from the old, stained
Irish Bible, or sitting beside the cabin door
listening to the surging sea. At the opening
of our story Nina had scarcely attained
her twentieth year. Father small of stature,
possessed of a lithe, graceful figure, soft
round cheeks, brown eyes, and a mass of long,
nut-brown hair, she was a strong contrast
to her gaunt, ghastly-looking relative.

The light of a lamp flashed down upon
her, brilliantly illuminating her face and
figure. She wore an ordinary peasant's
dress ; her hair was twisted and neatly
coiled round her head ; the light in her eyes
was keen and penetrating, and a thoughtful,
preoccupied expression was on her face.

As she read, her voice range through the
room, not in its usual quiet measured
cadencies, but in fluctuating uncertainty ;
and now and again an access of tremor
was perceptible. She seemed restless and
uneasy. Her foot was tapping on the
floor, her fingers pulling at the edges
of her book ; and at times peeping
cautiously through the window, she
vainly endeavoured to penetrate into
the gloom.

The old woman sat motionless as a statue,
listening in grim satisfaction to the words
which fell upon her ear, while her eyes still
rested upon the tombstone. The air was
oppressively still, not a sound was to be
heard but the weary washing of the sea.
A loud and prolonged shout of many voices
from a distance soon caused Nina to start

violently and leap to her feet, casting the
book roughly upon the floor.

"What is the matter, Nina?" asked
Aileen O'Connor, half-turning towards the
girl.

Sure, 'tis the young master, I think,
Aunt Aileen, that has just arrived."

Running to the door, Nina gazed anxiously
forth. On the cliffs, some distance
from the cabin, a crowd of people was
dimly perceptible, and lights moved, while
from the sea a ray of light, evidently proceeding
from the mast of a ship, shone
brightly as a star. At sight of this, Nina's
heart gave a great leap, and her lip quivered.
Leaning against the door-post, she
gazed on. Beside the fire the old woman
sat, gaunt as a shadow. As the shout
struck upon her ear, the expression of her

face grew sterner and more determined
still, while her bloodless lips muttered
slowly, —

** The sins of the fathers shall be visited
upon the children, unto the third and fourth
generation. With what measure ye mete,
it shall be measured to you again."

VOL. II.

HE master of Cruna Island was
a prosperous man in the true
sense of the word. The house
which he occupied — a small edifice of stone,
far superior in appearance to any of those
surrounding it — was placed on a height in
the middle of the island, and while standing
at the windows of any one of the rooms,
he could gaze upon well-fed flocks and
herds, and several miles of well-tilled land,
and truthfully repeat the rhyme, —

*' I am monarch of all I survey,

My right there is none to dispute ;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute."

Unlike the barren bogs and mountains
which characterise the scenery of Connemara,
the land of Cruna Island was tolerably
fruitful, it having been carefully cultivated
by its successive proprietors. Each
year its nominal value had increased, and
when it became the property of the present
owner, it might be said to represent a very
tolerable income. Every available acre of
land had been manipulated for cultivation.
Stretches of bright, green pasture and
fields of yellow corn were everywhere revealed
to the eye, and above, far up, near
the clouds, where the furrows of the ploughshare
had not penetrated, were barren heights

and craggy mountain - peaks, where the
fox and the mountain goat dwelt unmolested,
where the grouse bred, and
the blue hares abounded. Here and thereon
the hillsides, or lying half-hidden in a
waving sea of ripe corn, were little fishing-hamlets,
the picturesque dwellings of the
population, a quaint people, in whose minds
still reigned paramount many of those wild
legendary superstitions which had been
believed in by their ancestors. No breeze
from the south ever penetrated to those
hills ; seldom was a stranger known to
tread those lonely shores. Century after
century had passed away, races of men
sprung up and died, the outer world progressed
and changed, but still the inhabitants
of Cruna Island remained as little
enlightened in their ideas as had been

their progenitors before them. In this
respect, it must be avowed, the master
himself seemed little in advance of his
people. He was a man who possessed
little more education than his tenants, who
was, to some extent, guided by their feeble
lights, and whose head was equally as full
of invincible superstitions.

One morning, some two days after the
young master's arrival at Cruna, the lad
lay full length on a plot of grass before
his uncle's door, his head resting upon his
crossed hands as he gazed silently up at
the cloudless sky. Beside him, a greyhound
was stretched basking in the sunshine as
lazily as his master, while a few paces off
sat the old man himself on a rude wooden
bench which was erected beside his door.
He sat silent ; his broad, brown hands resting

on the top of a stick which stood
between his knees, and his dull eyes fixed
upon his nephew's indolent face. At length
he spoke.

How long do you intend to stay,
George ? " he asked, and without raising
his head or changing his position the young
man replied, —

"Till autumn only, then I must go to
Dublin for a month."

And will you not grow tired before
then ? "

Tired ? not I. Cruna gives one a foretaste
of Paradise in weather like this."
Then rising to his feet he asked suddenly, —

"By the way, uncle, what has become
of Nina O'Connor, my little playmate ; is
she still here ? "

Immediately the old man's manner

changed. Glancing keenly into his
nephew's face, he replied, —

The girl is here ; more sorrow to me,
and to you too, George, if you seek her
out. Accursed was that day when those
two women first came to Cruna ! "

George stared in amazement as he
asked, —

Why, what has she done ? "

Ask rather what has she not done ? "
exclaimed Mr Dunroon. " The girl has the
evil eye,' and 'tis only by carefully pleasing
her and her accursed relative that the
land is fruitful."

Nina O'Connor a witch ! ridiculous ! "
ejaculated George. A residence in the
south had effectually erased from his mind
all the innocent conceptions which he had
imbibed in Coma, and rendered him sceptical

in more matters than that of witchcraft.


'' I tell you it is true, George ! " doggedly
asserted his uncle. "" 'Twas only with one
glance of her eye that she withered up the
corn in that field. The girl is accursed in
the sight of heaven ; never come near her
while you are in Cruna, and never again
mention her name to me ! "

The latter part of the behest was obeyed
to the letter. Being perfectly acquainted
with his uncle's obdurate, narrow-minded,
superstitious nature, the lad knew full well
that any attempt on his part to shake the
ideas which he had conceived about Nina
would be utterly futile, and perhaps would
only serve to make his uncle's conviction
more bitter.

Accordingly, he held his peace. His

mind, however, unlike his lips, was bound
by no restrictions. During that day, his
thoughts constantly turned to Xina, and,
contrary to the sage advice of his relative,
he determined to seek her out on the first
opportunity. Far from shaking his determination,
Nina's reputed skill in the " black
arts " only served to make it more sure,
and inspire in him a livelier interest in the
girl.

While he had been absent from the
island, Xina had been little in his mind ;
other impressions had crowded upon him,
entirely sweeping her from his thoughts ;
now that he was back again, the remembrance
of his childhood's days was recalled
to him, and the picture of Xina O'Connor
was inseparably mixed up in all his reflections.
Eight years had passed since he

had seen her, and George fell to picturing
the changes which those eight years might
have wrought in her, and he wondered if
he would find in the woman the same
affectionate heart and gentle nature he had
known and loved in the child. In such
reflections George was not alone. Ever
since Nina had heard of his projected
return to the island, she on her part had
been conjuring up pictures of her boyish
playmate, and wondering what he would
think when he found her thus friendless,
shunned and despised as it were by every
human soul.

Despite the gentleness with which the
girl had submitted to the tyranny which
had been exercised over her, there was in
her nature a portion of that quiet resolve
which was so marked a characteristic of her

aunt. The assertions concerning her, she had
treated with the utmost scorn, coming as
they did from people whom she had learned
to despise ; but now, she thought, the case
would be different ; and, on that night
when she had stood against the door-post,
watching the flickering light in the bay,
she had involuntarily asked herself the
question, —

Will George treat me as these people
do?"

Her thoughts of him were filled with
pleasant associations. She knew that in his
youth he had possessed a kindly disposition,
and she thought that, after eight years
residence in the south, he must return a
gentleman, with expanded mind and enlightened
ideas, a being in every way fit
to rule in Cruna. Although she herself

had been brought up within the lonely
limits of the island, with no wider experience
of humanity than the superstitious
islanders, Nina's mind was of a different
mould. Had she been reared solely under
their auspices, the girl might necessarily have
inherited much of their legendary lore, but
Aileen O'Connor, who had dwelt in more
enlightened climes, regarded the islanders,
including the master himself, as a set of
creatures whose only possible claim to
humanity was that of form, certainly not of
intellect. Secretly hating and despising
every one, and more especially the master
himself, she had endeavoured to bring Nina
round to her own lights. She had succeeded
so far as to brighten up the girl's intelligence,
and give her more enlightened
ideas of human nature, and the world in

general, than she could possibly have obtained
had she been cast solely upon her
own resources.

For George's return Nina had looked as
for that of an old friend. During; the eio:ht
years of their separation, she, having no
other excitement in her mind, had been
constantly thinking of, nay, almost looking
forward to the time when the boy should
come back and brighten up her dreary
existence.

No sooner, therefore, did he return to
the island, than she lengthened her daily
walks in the hope of meeting him. She
knew that, even were he so inclined, he
would not dare to seek her at her home,
for, ever since that day, now so many years
ago, when, with wild imprecations, the old
woman had driven him from her door,

he had never once attempted to cross
the threshold. So Nina looked for him
abroad, but for many days her search was
vain.

One evening, however, after a long stroll,
she sat down to rest upon the grass-covered
crags, when she was suddenly startled by
the report of a gun. She rose and looked
around her, but she could see no one.
Presently, however, a hare came bounding
along, and, when a few yards from her feet,
fell dead. Trembling, she glanced around
again. Almost immediately the sportsman
became visible. First came a dog, a black
retriever, which, with nose to the ground,
was closely following the track of the hare ;
at no very great distance behind the dog
hurried the slight figure of a young man,
clad in a grey shooting-suit, carrying a gun

on his shoulder, and closely followed by a
coarse-looking fisher-boy.

One by one the party appeared on the
top of a hill which rose a distance from
the crags, cutting ofi* the flat sweep of land.
Nina looked intently at the sportsman,
while he, with his eyes fixed on the dog,
came walking direct towards her.

At first the face seemed perfectly unknown
to her, but, as the man drew nearer,
and she got a better view of the features,
she gradually seemed to recognise in him
her old friend, George Dunroon. The recognition
became complete when at length
the young man called to his dog in a voice
that, despite the changes of years, she
knew well.

Breathless with his run, George paused
within a few yards of where the girl stood,

and stooped to lift the hare which the dog
had deposited at his feet. On turning to
cast it to the boy, his eyes suddenly fell
upon Nina, who stood quietly watching his
movements.

He started, paused, the next moment he
strode forward, holding forth his hand.

Nina ! " he exclaimed, as he clasped
her fingers in his hand, and looked admiringly
into her face. " I declare I hardly
knew you ; what a pretty girl you have
grown ! "

Nina opened her lips to speak, but, in
glancing over George's shoulder, her eyes
rested upon a sight which made her burst
into a fit of somewhat petulant laughter.

The boy, who had followed the j^oung
master, horrified at the sudden encounter
with Nina, had hurriedly seized the hare,

and anxious, no doubt, to put a safe distance
between himself and the girl, was
engaged in making a most ignominious
retreat.

George was about to call him, when Nina
put her hand on his arm, —

You need not do that," she said, ** he'll
never turn."

'* Why not ? " asked George.

Nina looked full into his face as she said,
in a half-sarcastic, half-bitter tone, —

"Because, sir, he wouldn't like to be
bewitched."

In a moment George remembered his
uncle's accusation, which, till then, he had
almost foro-Qtten.

The little imp," he muttered, half-angrily
; then turning towards the girl, he
said, " perhaps we are as well without him,

VOL. II. H

for, now we have met, I don't mean to let
you escape so easily, Nina. Where are
you going ? "

Just along the shore to my home."
Then I will walk with you," answered
George, instinctively assuming towards the
girl all his old protecting manner ; " 'tis a
long time since we had a ramble together,
isn't it, Nina ? "

"Indeed it is, sir," replied Nina softly,
as with eyes fixed on the ground she
seemed to travel back over the vista of
those past years.

Have you missed me much ? " asked
George.

"Yes," answered Nina, in the same soft
tone. " It has felt lonely."

And you are glad to see me back ? "

I am, sir," was the simple reply.

Silence followed. Both now seemed ina
waking dream, occupied with a pleasant
retrospect, — their eyes on the quiet sea.

"Come, Nina," George said quietly, ashe
approached her side, "as we go along
you must tell me all that has happened to
you since we parted."

Side by side the two walked along in
the fading light, and ere long Nina was
talking to George in as free and unrestrained
a manner as she had been wont
to talk in years gone by. Although changed
so much outwardly, George possessed the
same frank, kindly nature that had been
noteworthy in the boy, and ere she had
been half-an-hour in his company, Nina
felt no longer abashed and reserved, but
rather as if she were in the presence of an
intimate friend. When they parted, she

gave him her hand as frankly as she had
been wont to give her lips in the old
times.

The intimacy recommenced under such
favourable auspices, soon ripened into strong
friendship. Ere long, Mr Dunroon observed
that George, studiously bent upon visiting
all his old haunts, seemed to have a particular
fancy for visiting those haunts alone.
Whenever his uncle proposed to accompany
him, the prepared expedition was always
either abandoned altogether, or the master's
society shufflingly dispensed with. Altogether,
George's conduct was inexplicable.
Day after day his hound lay lazily in the
sunshine, and his guns grew rusted from
long disuse. The master, who himself had
been little of a saint, was by no means
inclined to attribute saintship to others.

He knew there must be some great cause
for his nephew's conduct, and he soon discovered
what he had all along suspected, —
that, despite his sage advice, the boy had
been "bewitched," and that his pretended
expeditions over the island resolved themselves
into nothing more or less than
clandestine meeting's with Xina.

o

Indeed, either for good or ill, Xina
quickly exerted a great influence over the
young master, — which influence his uncle
naturally attributed to the " evil eye," or
some other of her aunt's diabolic arts.
Certain it was, that the friendship between
the two strengthened each day, and that
George soon discovered he was never so
happy as when lounging by Nina's side,
and looking into her face.

"You have been here two months today,
and, do you remember, this is the
place where we met ? *

Nina sat on the grass, looking into
George's face, as he reclined close to the
edo^e of the craoj.

Two months ! " he repeated. " It has
passed like a dream."

You have not wearied, sir ? "

Instead of replying, George rose, and
took his seat close by the girl's side.

Nina."

Yes."

Why don't you call me George as you
used to do ? "

Nina looked into his face as she said
slowly, "Because it is different now,

sir."

Why should it be different, Nina ? Weare

the same — you and I, — what difference
should a few years make ? "

Nina rose hastily, and stood before him.

Indeed, you yourself should know what
difference it makes. "We are not children
now. You are the young master, and I — "

And you, Xina, are what I prize more
than anything else in the world," said
George, as, standing before her, he took
her hands. " Tell me, child, do you care
for me ? Do you think of me sometimes,
as I think of you ? — do you — "

He paused. Xina's hand trembled. She
looked into her companion's eyes and remained
silent.

Nina," continued George, passionately,
as he clasped her round the waist ; " speak,
darling, — do not turn from me. Answer
me now, do you love me, Nina ? "

Love you ? yes, indeed 1 do ! " said
Nina softly. " But there is little wonder
in that. You are the dearest friend — the
only friend — I have in the wide world ;
but I am different to you, and 'tis strange,
I think, that you should care for me."

Nina, do you love me ? "

Indeed, yes," Nina replied ; and, looking
questioningly into his face, she asked,
Will you always love me ? "

Always, darling ! "

For a time she was silent, with her eyes
cast on the sea ; then she said, half-smiling,
half-sad, " Although I am a witch ? "

George laughed.

There is the pledge ! " he said, as he
kissed her on the lips.

F the suspicion of Nina's unholy
propensities had hitherto been
somewhat vague and indistinct,
it soon became confirmed by one and all
beyond the shadow of a doubt ; for where
could be found the person in this matter-of-fact
world who would still hold to a girl's
innocence when she had been seen successively,
by moonlight, in the company of a
bear — a creature half-cow, half-man, and a
monster in every lineament, resembling the
merman of the caves ? Substantial evidence

of these facts was in no way wanting, for
the inhabitants of Cruna were armed against
the girl cap-a-pie. There was old Dunbeg,
for instance, ready and willing to swear on
the Book that only seven days before, ashe
stood at nightfall on the Moruig Dub,
he had, himself unseen, watched the girl
approach the dreaded Creag-na-Ghoill, and
from thence, at a signal from her, had
emerged a shadowy monster, which again
and again clasped her in its arms. Young
Cannon, too, strongly averred that, as he
was one night returning in his skiff from
the fishing, he had, with his own eyes, seen
Nina sitting amidst the rocks on the shore,
half reclining in the arms of a man, whose
lower extremities bore a striking resemblance
to those of a seal. At last the case
became so strong that the inhabitants of

Cana Island felt impelled to lay the
facts before their master, and to beg
that the witch, and her old familiar,
should forthwith be exiled from that
land.

To the wonder of the islanders, however,
Mr Dunroon exhibited towards the outcasts
considerably more leniency than did his
people. He was a cautious man, whose
nature was utterly impenetrable to the
gaze of those benighted islanders. Knowing
his nephew's fancy for the girl, he had
substantial reason for connecting George
Dunroon with these midnight apparitions.
To his nephew he said nothing of his suspicions
; he knew that George was headstrong,
that opposition would be useless ;
and though he had no idea of allowing
matters to proceed as they were, he chose

to gain this end by some surer and more
secret means.

A personal interview with Nina he
dreaded, partly on account of her reputed
skill in the "black arts," and partly because
there was something in the girl's face which
stirred up the latent sorrow in his soul,
and made him very sad. Was it the evil
in her eye which caused the man so persistently
to shrink from her glance ? Or
was it some faint familiar gleam which
recalled to him the memory of other days ?
Certain it is, that he had never looked upon
Nina's face without some stifled emotion
rising within his breast, so that day after
day, month after month, he shunned her,
dreading to meet her gaze, and cloaking
his shrinking cowardice under the garb of
superstition. Whatever he did must be

done secretly, and in a measure through
the aid of his people, for in this matter
the master did not think it expedient to
declare open hostility. Not that he feared
Nina only — the girl herself Teas quite in
his power — and were she alone concerned,
the matter would be comparatively easy ;
but of Aileen O'Connor he had a genuine
and deep-set terror. He knew that in his
youth he had done her manifold wrongs ;
he remembered how she had left the
island vowing vengeance against him ; and
although at the time the matter had impressed
him little, yet since aileen had
returned to the island — an old woman —
the master had felt considerably more ill
at ease.

From the first the old woman's proceedings
had puzzled him ; but what astonished

him more than all was, that in her later
years she should return and live in the
very island which had been the scene of
her former misfortunes. Of her life, he
knew nothing, but he felt that the old
woman nursed the wrongs of the girl, and
that still Aileen O'Connor cherished towards
him that malignant dislike which he himself
had formerly been instrumental in arousing.
Dreading, therefore, to mix himself openly
in the matter, he determined to feed the
superstition of his people, and thereby rid
himself of an incumbrance which had been
torturing his soul for years.

Silently and keenly he watched his
nephew's face, as one who reads a written
page, and day by day he saw that the girl's
influence over his soul was deepening.
Though George had never disclosed to any

mortal man his love for Nina, his uncle
had partly solved the young man's secret,
and he determined to fully unravel the
mystery ere he finally formed his own plans.

Meanwhile George, utterly unmindful of
the moral eruption which was working in
his uncle's mind, continued to pass his time
in careless indolence. Indifferent to all but
love, he spent his evenings in Nina's company,
looking into her face, and listening
to her voice, while the master loomed like
a satyr in the background, longing, yet
fearing, to put his veto upon the event
which he saw approaching.

Nina," said George, one evening, as,
half reclining on a patch of grass which
covered the top of a cliff, he looked up into
her face, " have you felt happier, darling,
since I came ? '

Nina laughed ; and putting her hand
into that which was stretched towards her,
asked. —

How many times is it that you have
asked me that ? "

"A dozen, I should think."

Then why do you ask again ? "

Because I like to hear you answer me,
I like to listen to your loving voice, Nina,
darling. I could sit here looking into your
face like this for ever ! "

Indeed, you would be weary."

Never, child ; — I love you far too well ;
you are my life, my second nature ; with
you by my side, I would brave the world."

You would ? "

'* Yes, I will swear it if you wish, my
darling ! "

But suppose all the world was against

t

me ? It is against me, I am crushed down
and despised by every one, save you ! "

Pshaw ! you know nothing of the world,
Nina. What does it matter for the opinion
of people like these ? You will soon be
beyond their power, for you will be their
mistress, and then, if you wish it, Nina, we
will go south, leave all dark thoughts behind
us, and begin life together, happy in our
love then, as we are now," — and he put out
both his arms, and, folding them around
Nina's waist, drew her nearer to his side.

The dark cliff, on the top of which they

sat, loomed in the dusky twilight. Beneath

them the mighty ocean surged heavily, and

above their heads stretched the heavens,

radiant with stars. Around them the shades

of night were slowly gathering, all seemed

fading away in a soft, vaporous light, no
VOL. II. I

object was clearly perceptible ; all was vague,
and shadowy, like things in a dream. Fora
time the two sat silent, overawed, as it
were, by the utter stillness of the scene, for
nothing stirred, no breeze was on either
land or sea, but ever and anon the owl
hooted from its nest in the ivied crag, and
the corncrake cried from the corn which
grew scarcely a hundred yards behind
them. Presently Nina stirred.

How dark it is getting ! I had forgotten
about the night coming, and about my aunt
too, who sits in the cabin. I must go,
George, I have lingered with you far too
long!"

And Nina leapt to her feet, drew more
tightly around her the small checkered
handkerchief which covered her neck and
shoulders, and turned her back upon the

ocean. Suddenly she started, and caught
her companion's sleeve, as she asked, in a
suppressed voice, — " What's that ? "

What, Nina ? '^

Don't you see that dark figure stealing
along the edge of the corn-field ? Why, 'tis
the master himself ! "

So it is ! What can he be doing here,
and at this hour, I wonder ? Come to seethe
fairies dance, or to attend a witches'
midnight meeting ? I'll speak to him."

But Nina kept her hand firmly upon his
arm, and held him back.

Not now, George. See ! he does not
wish you to do so either."

As she spoke, there was a gentle rustle
amongst the corn, and the figure of Mr
Dunroon disappeared amidst it from their
sight.

George turned to Nina.

*' Why, how pale you are," he said,
taking her face between his two hands,
and holding it up to his. 'rare you afraid
of my uncle, Nina ? "

The girl withdrew a few paces into the
shadow.

"No, I do not fear him," she replied,
though her voice trembled, " but a strange
feeling comes over me when I meet him,
such a strange feeling that I cannot understand.
I wonder," she added in a lower
voice, " will he ever do me any harm ? "

George laughed.

What, Nina, you superstitious too ? "

No, indeed, I am not ; but I know the
master dislikes me now more than any one
of his people ! "

Never fear, little one, he will not dare

to harm you. Why should he ? You have
lived here undisturbed all these years ; why
should he hurt you now ? "

"I do not know, George," Nina replied
softly, "only I would rather that the
master was away."

"Tush, Nina, 'tis a foolish fancy that
you must not cherish ; remember, I am
here now to protect you from danger,
should any threaten. Now, darling, let me
see your face, and tell me you are happy ! "

Raising her head, Nina looked into her
lover's eyes, and smiled. At that moment
she felt supremely glad in the glow of a
first youthful passion, and as George drew
her near to him, bent above and kissed
her cheek, the past shadows and misgivings
which had momentarily darkened her soul
were dissolved.

Thus the two stood, forgetful of all save
themselves, while not many yards behind
them loomed a gaunt figure with silvern
hair, whose eyes were fixed upon the lovers
in malicious dislike, while his lips muttered,
—

She has bewitched him, as I thought,
but she shall suffer, she shall suffer ! "

The summer months sped past, and
autumn came ; the corn was cut and
gathered, the sweet scent of newly-mown
hay was gone from the air, and Cruna Island
lay dark and barren, canopied by a
cold, clear, grey sky. The autumn came,
and with it came the time for George's
departure.

As the days rolled past swiftly, one
after another, and that day drew near

when he was to leave the island and return
for a time to his studies in the smoky
southern city, George grew sad and disheartened,
oppressed by a feeling of apprehension,'
a vaofue foreshadowing; of evil, for
which he could not account.

Nightly he sought out Xina, whispering
words of comfort in her ear, and drinking
them again from her loving lips.

Most willingly would George have renounced
all thoughts of departure, and
stayed on the lonely island by Nina's side ;
but that could not be ; he must go —
struggle against the fates as he mio-ht,
they still retained the mastery. At last
the eve of the dreaded day arrived.

One little piece of hair, Xina, to kiss
tomorrow when I am on the ocean," he
asked, as he stood with Xina on the beach

beside lier cabin for the last time. Nina
drew back.

"No, no!"

Why, darling ? "

Because — I am superstitious, dear ;
you might never see me again ! "

Nonsense, darling, do not talk so ; tonight,
let us be happy."

"So we will, if we are never so again.
Oh, George, I have been most happy since
you came, but it will be weary here without
you."

It will not be for long, Nina. Before
you have realised that I am gone, I shall
be back again. Promise me not to weary,
promise to keep bright and well till I come
back to claim you ! "

I will try ! "

Nina, why is it that you linger ? "

It was the querulous voice of Aileen
O'Connor calling from within the house.

Nina turned.

I am coming, Aunt Aileen," then she
held tight on to George's arm. " 'Tis not
again that we'll meet, and we must just
say good-bye here. I cannot come out and
see you go. I could not bear it, with all
those people staring at me, and the master,
too, maybe. But," she added quickly,
I'll see you from the Creag-na-Ghoill ! "

** I shall see you there ? "

"Maybe."

One month, Nina ; remember then I
shall be back to claim you openly, and dare
them all."

Nina shuddered.

Are you cold, darling ? "

A little ; 'tis like winter weather this.

Fm thinking the snow will be here before
a month."

Nina, do you hear ? Nina ! " The old
woman's voice was more querulous than
before.

I must go," said Nina, as she began to
move reluctantly away.

George's arms were at once enfolded
around her. Gently placing her head on
his breast, he kissed her again and again.
For a moment she lay pillowed thus, then,
with a half-stifled sob, she broke from his
arms, and uttering a scarcely audible
Good-bye," ran into the hut.

The next morning: the sails of the cutter,
which had brought the young master to
Cruna, and which was to take him thence,
were early set, and long before midday a

crowd of people were collected on the shore
watching the vessel. But as, with her
White sails gleaming in the light, the
vessel sailed swiftly across the bay, past
towering crags and lofty caverns, George
became more agitated.

With a keen, passionate glance, he
diligently scanned the shore ; — as it neared
the crag commonly known as the Crags
he drew from his socket
a white handkerchief, and holding it on
high, waved and waved again. Then
looking up, he saw Nina standing above
him, on the extreme verge of the crag.
In her hand she, too, held a handkerchief,
which she waved once, twice — then
the handkerchief came fluttering down
towards the ocean, as Nina moved back
from the crag and was gone.

sooner had the young man left
for the south than Mr Dun-room
began to ponder as to the
best means of carrying out his plans concerning
Nina. Of one thing he was certain,
that the girl must be got rid of
before George's return, for were the two
once again allowed to meet, all hopes
of putting an end to the connection
would be utterly futile. The scheme,
however, seemed by no means easy of
accomplishment, for since the master had

thwarted that first insurrection, his people
were not over anxious to resume their
application.

As a witch, Nina had come to
be feared almost as much as her
aunt ; and such was the superstition of
the people, that they dreaded to turn
her from the land, lest the curse which
she would surely hurl upon their heads
should blight their agricultural prospects
for that season at least. So the time
passed on, the inhabitants of Cruna Island
began to look for the young master's
return, and still nothing had been done.
Mr Dunroon, fuming under his disappointment,
looked about him for a means
of rescue, but none seemed at hand.
What was to be done must be done quickly,
or George would be back and spoil all.

The girl once away, the master believed
that he would be safe ; for, in his
excitement, he quite overlooked the fact
that if they were once separated at
Cruna, the lovers might ultimately meet
elsewhere. Seeing that in this matter he
could expect little voluntary help from
his people, Mr Dunroon resolved to take
the matter into his own hands, and gain
his end. Thus he remained, silent but
watchful, awaiting the opportunity which
at last came.

After her first sting of grief was over,
Nina O'Connor recommenced her solitary
walks. Alone she visited the spots where
she had walked with George. Every
place associated with him was dear to
her. Indeed, the only gratification which
she now felt was in brooding over the

spots where they had wandered together ;
for, as she did so, she almost heard his
voice in her ear whispering to her words
of love.

Now, if Xina's walks were apparently
harmless in character, they soon caused a
revolution in the island, for no sooner
did the girl emerge into the open air,
than a series of calamities fell upon the
land. One of Maguire's cows went dry
and sickened on the very first day that
Xina appeared. Certainly Mr Dunroon
had stroked the cow ; but then there
was nothing in that. The islanders thought
'twas but kindly of the master to notice
the beast ; it must be the witch's work.

Two days after this incident one of
Andy Beg's finest heifers was seen to
drop stone dead scarcely a hundred yards

from Nina's feet. The heifer was known
to be in perfect health, for only a short
time before its death it had eaten a wisp
of hay from the masters very hand.
A little later, one of the islanders
offered to Mr Dunroon a valuable filly
which he had for sale. The master was
pleased with the animal, but before concluding"
the bargain he wanted to test
the powers of the horse in a ride over
the island.

From a crowd of admiring islanders he
galloped off along the road which led past
the hut of Aileen O'Connor. As he came
within sight of the cabin he saw Nina
standing by the roadside, watching him
with strange earnestness. Scarcely had
the pony trotted half a mile beyond her
when it was seized with violent quivering

; it foamed at the mouth, gnashed
its teeth, threw up its head, and became
altogether unmanageable.

o o

The master dismounted, a crowd quickly-gathered
; in the midst of which stood
the owner, furious, and desperate with
rage and mortification, as he saw his
pony expire before his very eyes. What
human soul could continue to doubt the
substantiality of a fact when it was
brought before him in so very marked a
manner ?

As the islanders looked upon the animal,
they, one and all, became furious as the
owner himself. Misfortune after misfortune
had fallen upon them, and although
the master generously offered at once to
pay the price of the pony, and become
himself the loser for the deed, the

VOL. II. K

islanders resolved to take the law into
their own hands, and right their private
wrongs.

After Mr Dunroon had galloped along
the road, and passed from her sight,
Nina turned, and began to descend the
rocky path which led to her home. Her
mind was full of strange misgivings, and
the expression of the man's eyes as they
had momentarily glanced into her face
haunted her.

He means me no good," she thought ;
why does the sight of him fill me with
such fear, I wonder ? I wish George
was here ! "

The door of the cabin stood ajar. Nina
pushed it open, and entered. Instead
of sitting in her accustomed place, Aileen
O'Connor stood upon the hearth, diligently

pulling together the smouldering
turf-sods. In a moment Nina was beside
her.

Shall I sort the fire, Aunt Aileen ? "

The ghastly face was turned towards
her, and the querulous voice replied, —

Can you not see that / am sorting
it ? "

Nina remained silent, too well accustomed
to the querulous tone to make
reply. Presently Aileen placed the tongs
on the hearth, and resumed her accustomed
seat, while Nina quietly retired to
the window recess.

Where is it you have been, Nina ? "
asked Aileen at length.

"On the cliffs above," was the gentle
reply.

Ay, you are ever on the cliffs," the

old woman soliloquised ; " thinking little
of me, though I sit here alone for ever.
'Tis the way of the world — the old are
forgotten and neglected. 'Tis ever the
way, and I share the fate of the rest."

Advancing from the window, Nina approached
her aunt's chair, put a hand on
each shoulder, and bent her face towards
her.

Dear Aunt Aileen, shall I read to
you % "

Head to me ? Why should you ? "
ms the sharp answer ; " that, too, is a
burden, I suppose ? "

With a low sigh, the girl again retired
to the window recess, and resting her
arms on the sill, looked out upon the
ocean. There was silence for a time, then
the old woman spoke again.

** Why are you not reading, Nina ? "
she asked, and without reply the girl
lifted from the shelf the old stained Bible,
and began to read aloud, while Aileen
crossed her bony hands upon her knee,
and fixed her lack-lustre eye upon her
tombstone.

Scarcely half-an-hour had passed, and
Nina's voice still sounded softly in the
room, when a rush of many feet broke
the silence without, and suddenly a crowd
of people swooped upon the cabin, entirely
surrounding it. Before Nina could
move, the door was rudely pushed open,
and the crowd poured into the room with
a fierce cry, —

The witches ! Out with the witches ! "

Nina rose to her feet and confronted
them, but ere she could utter a word she

was roughly seized by the wrist, forced out
of the door, and hemmed round by the
crowd without, while on all hands the
fiercest denunciations were hissed into her
ear. In the midst of the crowd Nina stood
confounded, utterly taken aback by the
suddenness of the attack ; but soon she
recovered, and, wrenching herself free,
looked defiantly around.

Stand back ! " she cried, " stand back ! "
What have I done to be served like this ? "

Hear the witch ! hear the witch ! " was
roared on every hand.

Who killed my cow ? " asked one, as a
savage face confronted her.

"And who killed my horse — my best
horse ? The devil blast you ! "

Nina looked calmly into the eyes which
were glaring upon her.

I know nothing of what you say ; but
I never worked you harm — no, not one of
you."

A fierce, derisive laugh was the reply.
Ere the girl could speak again she felt herself
lifted from her feet and borne towards
the ocean. Wildly she gazed around for
help. The faces looming about her were
fierce and pitiless, almost demoniac in their
savage brutality ; the sea of human faces
hemmed her in on every hand ; but as Nina
glanced despairingly around, her eyes fell
upon an uncovered head, which was close
beside her, mingling with the rest — the
white head of Mr Dunroon. Gathering
together all her strength, the girl made
a tremendous effort, dashed through the
crowd, caught the master by the sleeve
and cried for mercy.

Think what it would be to have your
own child treated so," she said, " and have
some pity for me ! Think what it is to
turn on a helpless girl and an old woman !
you have power — never let them harm
us!"

The man turned from her, muttering
fiercely, —

They shall not harm you, but I'll have
no witches on Cruna. You shall go, and
never return again ! "

Nina's face grew paler, but she retained
her hold.

Turn us from Cruna ! " she said, almost
breathlessly ; "as well kill us outright as
send us away into the world, where we
have no kindred and no friends ! Take
back your word, sir, and never do
that ! "

My Connaught Cousins. 15

The man roughly endeavoured to shake
her away.

Let go, I say ; I'll have no witches
here ! "

Still holding on his arm, Nina exclaimed,
—

Why are you so cruel ? T\^at have
we done that you should serve us so ?
For years you have hated me. I know
it ; I have seen it in your face. You
are a hard, cruel man. 'Tis you, I know,
and only you, who have turned these
people against me. But you will not
be suffered to go on so. Take care, old
man, lest God's curse fall upon you for
what you do ! "

Nina stood, wild with excitement, her
hand convulsively clasped around the
master's arm. while her face loomed before

him deathly pale. What was it in
the girl's face that penetrated into his
heart, and almost softened his hard resolve ?

As the man gazed upon those features,
his frame quivered through and through ;
every line, every feature seemed familiar
to him, and her bright brown eyes held
him for a time with almost magnetic influence.
He gazed breathlessly upon her ;
then, like one suddenly relieved from a
terrible spell, he breathed again, covered
his eyes with his hand, and cowered before
her, muttering under his breath, —

Begone, begone ! "

Suddenly there was a crash and a loud
cry. The crowd congregated on the beach
uttered a brutal shout of savage glee.

Turning round, Nina beheld a tongue
of bright red flame flaring high into the

air. They had set fire to the cabin ; the
only house which the girl ever remembered
was burning to the ground before
her eyes. With a wild shriek she threw
up her arms, and cried, —

What have you done — what have you
done ? My Aunt Aileen — where is my
poor aunt ? "

In her agony the girl would have rushed
through the crowd to the burning cabin,
when her arm was caught in a j)o^'6i'f^l
grip, and, looking back, she saw her
aunt standing close by — a gaunt, spectral
figure in the fiery light. Her ashen
cheeks had in them no tinge of colour.
Apparently unmoved by the terrible situation,
Aileen O'Connor stood still as a
statue, with one of her bony hands clasped
around Nina's arm, and her lustreless eyes

gazing sternly upon the crouching figure of
the man. Nina's heart bounded with joy.

You are safe ! " she cried ; " dear Aunt
Aileen, you are safe ! "

** Yes," replied the old woman in her
usual measured, querulous tones, but with
a strange light in her eyes. " I am
saved for this, to stand on the shore
of Cruna, and see the master turn
Nina O'Connor from her home." Then
turning to the master, who stood before
her like one bewitched, she said in harsh
grating tones, — " My time has come.
I have waited long, but it has come
at last. You remember the last words
of Aileen, the crushed down, heartbroken
Aileen O'Connor ? " Then pointing
with her long thin finger towards
Nina, she cried, — *' Hurl your curses

upon her as you hurled them upon me.
Crush her, despise her, thrust her away
as you did awhile ago ; the very sight
of her is hateful to you ; she knows it,
and I know it. She hates you, she
despises you, for through you, remember
through you, she is a wretched outcast
! "

The old man stood speechless, while the
death-like eyes of the woman were fixed
with a hungry light upon his face. Closer
the crowd pressed around with furious
faces, crying in Irish, —

She is mad, she will bewitch the
master, cast her away ! "

The girl clung wildly to her aunt, and
turned her face upon the people.

"You shall not harm her," she cried.
Aunt — dear Aunt Aileen, come away,

we will go, we will leave this hateful
place, and these cruel people, and we will
never come back again."

As she looked into the girl's face, the old
woman uttered a hard, cold laugh.

See how she clings to me," she cried,
almost fiercely, as she turned her eyes again
upon Mr Dunroon. "To me, though I
have scarcely given her a kind word, a
kind look, she clings to me, and you she
hates and loathes. Think of this, remember
this, on your dying bed ! "

Woman, what do you mean ? " cried the
master. " Get you gone, I say, and never
come here again. Curse on the hour when
your face came first to torture me ! "

The stern face of the old woman broke
into a ghastly smile.

I am going," she said, '* but she is

going with me. The girl is with the old
woman, whilst you are left childless. If I
am an outcast, she is an outcast too ; remember
that ! "

*' Curses on you both ! what is the girl
to me ? "

The old woman looked almost triumphantly
into his face as she replied, —

Think on that when she is gone away ! "

Dunroon turned fiercely from her.

Take them away ! " he cried ; " turn
them out ! Drag them from my sight ! "

The crowd again pressed around the two,
and Nina clung close to her aunt as if to
protect her, as she whispered, —

Come away, Aunt Aileen, come away.
He is a cruel man ! "

Yielding to the girl, Aileen O'Connor
moved slowly down the beach, her gaunt

figure straight as an arrow, and her head
towering above the heads of those who
pressed around her. Slowly the night
shadows were gathering around them, the
sky, covered here and there with thick
masses of cloud, loomed heavily above the
earth. On the distant mountain tops
patches of snow gleamed in the light.
Surrounded by the jeering crowd the two
figures moved slowly oceanward. Her face
pale as death, and her eyes bright and tearless,
Nina walked along half-dazed, half-stupefied,
deaf to the taunts which were
constantly hissed into her ear. Once she
paused, and looked back long and lovingly
at the spot where she had spent so many
years of her life. No vestige of the hut
remained, but a mass of smouldering black
ruins were scattered at the base of the rock.

At the sight, her face became paler still, her
brow contracted, her lips compressed, but
without a sigh she turned and walked in
silence until the two reached the edge of
the sea. There they paused. An unforeseen
difficulty arose.

The islanders, who were so anxious to
banish the outcasts, seemed, nevertheless,
most unwilling to convey them from thence,
fearing that in their spite the two women
might exert their evil influence over any
smack which they boarded, and so cause its
destruction.

The scene now became more boisterous
than before, and the two unfortunates would
probably have sustained some injury from
the people had the uproar not been suddenly
stopped. The skipper of a yawl,

which lay in the bay prepared for starting,
VOL. II. L

generously volunteered, out of pity, to take
the women on board. The ship's boat was
waiting on the shore, and into it Aileen
O'Connor stepped without a word. Nina
should have followed, but suddenly she
turned, faced the master, who had followed
them down, and fell upon the shore at his
feet.

*' Oh, sir, have pity ! " she cried ; " maybe
you have a kindly heart after all ; never
turn us away homeless and friendless as weare
! "

The man thrust her away.

Away with you !" he cried, and Nina was
seized roughly, cast into the boat, and ere
she had finally recovered from her dazed
amazement, she was seated on the deck of
the yawl, which was sailing swiftly out of
the harbour. Silently the girl sat with her

eyes fixed wildly upon the shore, as the
vessel struck out to the open sea, and Cruna
Island faded away into a mist. So concentrated
had her gaze become that she was
blind to all else, utterly unconscious that
another vessel, a large cutter, with all her
sails set and filled, was ploughing swiftly
through the water, and making straight for
the land which they had left.

Scarcely an hour had passed
since the yawl had faded from
view, and the crowd was still
congregated on the beach, when the cutter,
which had passed the yawl in the open
water outside Cruna, rounded the northern
point of the island, and sailed swiftly
into the bay. No sooner had it come to
a safe anchorage than a boat put off,
and pulled towards the shore, and the
islanders beheld, seated in the stern, none
other than the young master himself

George had not been expected so soon,

yet his sudden appearance caused no consternation
in the minds of the islanders.
They knew nothing of the relations between
him and Nina.

The master himself had left the
beach, and returned to his house, and
as yet knew nothing of his nephew's
arrival. Eagerly the islanders crowded
to the water's edge to welcome the young
man home. However, he paid little or
no attention to their salutes. They soon
noticed that something unusual had occurred
to bring him back so soon amongst
them ; for George wore a broad, black
band upon his hat, and his face was
whiter than the foam of the sea. Leaping
out on to the shingle, he hurriedly
passed through the ranks of men surrounding
him.

"What vessel was that we passed
yonder?" he asked, without raising his
eyes from the ground.

'Twas a yawl, sir, that came from the
south a week ago, and is bound homeward."


"They must have been mad to sail
out to-night. There's a storm brewing,
and an awful sea rising out in the
open."

The islanders glanced meaningly into
each other's faces, but, without once looking
towards them, George hurried on
direct for his uncle's house. His manner
was singularly agitated, his brow knit,
his pale face troubled by an expression
of mental agony. On reaching
the house he quietly entered, and, walking
along the lobby, paused before a half-open

door. The room which it revealed
was cast in heavy shadow, but through
the dim light could be faintly seen the
figure of Mr Dunroon, seated upon the
hearth in a great arm-chair, with his
bowed head resting upon his hand, and
his eyes bent upon the ground, while
the bright firelight fell upon his furrowed
face and silver hair. The expression of
his face was more peevish, the features
more pinched than ever, and as he sat
there in the cream of the firelight, he
looked worn-out and wretched with sorrow
and years. Advancing into the room,
George paused beside the chair, and
placed his hand on the old man's
shoulder, at which the master rose to
his feet, and faced him, exclaiming, —
George ! so soon ! " Then, as his eyes

fell upon his nephew's face and dress, he
asked in a softer tone, — " What has happened,
my boy ? Is it ill news that has
brought you back to Cruna ? "

George looked steadfastly into the old
man's face, and, still keeping his hand
on his shoulder, said quietly, —

Good news, and ill news, uncle. My
mother is dead."

Dead ! " echoed Mr Dunroon faintly ;
then his dull eyes grew almost tender in
expression as he looked in his nephew's
face.

You are friendless now, George," he
said, " friendless as I am ; but we will
keep together now, my boy. Cruna shall
be your home."

George half turned away.

Cruna shall never belong to me," he

said ; " you are not friendless, as you
suppose, uncle, for your own child still
lives."

A quiver passed through Dunroon's frame.

"My child!" he exclaimed. 'george,
I have no child, she was taken from me
before I saw her ; ay, eighteen years ago
she was drowned at sea ! " As he spoke,
the old man s voice manor with a low wail

o

of sorrow.

She was not drowned," continued
George, " for she was never on the ship !
Listen, uncle. At the last moment your
wife started alone, leaving her child with
my mother. The vessel went down, and
you believed the mother and child were
drowned ; but the child was safe in the
south. My mother never forgave you,
uncle, for refusing to help my father out

of some trouble ; she declared that through
your hardness you caused his death ; so
when she heard that you were grieving
for your child, she thought little of your
suffering, and was only bent on making
me your heir."

George paused. The old man trembled ;
but, without raising his head, he merely
said in a low voice, —

Go on, my boy ; go on ! "

You can partly guess the rest, uncle.
I was sent here to console you, and your
own child was detained. My mother kept
her for a few years, but fearing the secret
might ooze out, she at length entrusted
her to the care of a woman-servant in the
house. That woman was Aileen O'Connor.
The two were sent away together to the
States of America, and for a time nothing

was heard of them. Now, uncle, mark the
terrible decrees of Providence. Some years
ago these same two arrived at Cruna, and
ever since then your own child has been
living near you, like any common peasant
girl ! "

Up to this moment the old man had
sat silent, but as George uttered the last
words, the dull eyes flashed with an unearthly
light ; the features grew more
contracted. Rising to his feet he faced
his nephew, and in a quivering voice exclaimed,
—

"Nina OXWnor!"

Yes, uncle ; Nina O'Connor ! "

Mr Dunroon's hand clenched, and his
face grew pale as death.

It is false ! " he exclaimed. " She is
no child of mine ! "

Amazed at this unexpected change,
George stood for a moment utterly speechless
; then he stepped forward, and put
his hand on the old man's shoulder.

I tell you it is true, uncle," he replied.
My own mother confessed it to me on
her death-bed ! "

'' I say it is false, George ! " cried the
master vehemently ; " every word of it is
false ! The girl is no kin of mine, but of
hers — of that accursed woman — Aileen
O'Connor. Didn't I know she'd bring meno
good ? Didn't I know that evil would
come with her ? I felt it — I knew it. But
I will thwart her, I tell you, even if the
devil himself is leagued with her against
me."

Uncle," said George, " do not rave so,
think of it sensibly ; my mother has done

you the greatest wrong, but you must forgive
her now, and rejoice at getting back
your child."

She is not my child ! " cried the old
man, turning fiercely ujoon his nephew.
Don't you hear what I say, George ? she
is no child of mine ! But they are all
against me, and you have joined them too —
you above all. Haven't I treated you well,
George, and cherished you like my o^ti ?
and didn't I mean to leave you the island,
yes, every acre of it ? and yet you can turn
upon me like this ; ay, heap sorrow and
degradation upon the head of your benefactor
! "

With a plaintive wail, the old man sank
again into his chair, while the wind, which
had been slowly rising, shrieked fiercely
around the house, and a vivid flash of

light darting through the pane for a
moment brightly illuminated the room.
George stood irresolute, with his eyes
fixed upon the old man, who sat still,
cowering in the chair, with his broad hand
tremblingly pressed upon his face. Fora
moment both remained silent, then
George, advancing to his uncle's chair, said
quietly, —

'* Uncle, have you not wronged your child
enough that you must continue to do so
now ? All her life she has been crushed
down by you, her father, from whom she
should have sought protection. But you
shall not continue to commit a crime while
I can prevent it. Nina shall no longer
be an outcast, for I will bring her to her
home !"

Raising his head, Mr Dunroon gazed into

his nephew's face with a dogged look of
triumph.

That is beyond you, George," he said
quietly ; " the girl is gone ! "

Gone ! " ejaculated the young man,
rising excitedly to his feet.

"Yes, she is beyond your reach now,"
said Dunroon ; " she sailed away this very
night, and, by God's help, she will never
tread these shores again."

In a moment George turned almost
savagely upon him.

What have you done ? " he exclaimed ;
*' to what have your passions led you at
last ? You have sent your child to her death.
Do not stand there cursing her when she
may be sinking to her doom, but ask God
to forgive you for your cruelty and shame."

As George paused, there was a terrible

crash, the wind shrieked more shrilly, and
the lightning flashed into his face. Appalled
at last the old man shrank away like
a frightened child. Despite his savage refutation
of the statement made to him, Mr
Dunroon in his heart was credulous of its
probable truth. Now he remembered the
tender feelings which a glance from Nina's
eyes had awakened in his soul, and which,
to cover his secret fears, he had attributed
to the " evil eye ; " and, in looking
back at the girl's face, he almost seemed to
see in her the image of his lost wife. Now
he remembered, too, the wild words which
Aileen O'Connor had uttered in his ear only
that very night, as she stood with the girl
on the beach ; how with her bony finger
she had pointed to the girl, and exclaimed
with savage glee, —

"See how she clings to me, while \jo\i
she hates and loathes ! "

All now seemed to grow clear. He felt
the story was true. The two women had
wrought their revenge ; for twenty years
he had been desolate, and in the end he
had, perhaps, compassed the death of his
only child. Frantic and heart-sick, the
old man screamed out in pain, —

George," he cried, " be silent. Aileen
O'Connor has worked her ruin. I never
meant to kill her. Spare me, for God's
sake, snare me ! Have I not suffered
enough ? "

And has she not suffered, uncle ? "
George asked. " Promise me now, if she
is spared to-night, that you will repair all
the wrong you have done her."

I promise anything you wish, only

VOL. II. M

leave me in peace," the old man cried
in madness, as, quivering through and
through, he turned from his nephew and
sank silently into his chair. George left
the room and the house, and the door shutting
behind him with a crash, locked him
out into the storm.

Aged and half-stupefied, like one
in a half-dream, Nina continued
to sit where they had
placed her on the deck of the yawl, with
her eyes strained in the direction of
Cruna Island. The breeze, which had
brought them from Cruna, grew less and
less, until, when they had left the island
some six miles behind them, it entirely
died away. The water seemed throbbing
as with some hidden trouble, — black,
glassy, and direful, it washed against

the sides of the vessel with a dreary
moan. Overhead the floating masses of
black cloud were congregated into one
thick mass, which loomed down upon the
surface of the sea. The air was full of
a mysterious heat, which became almost
stifling in its oppressiveness.

For miles and miles away the points
of the land loomed clearly visible, the
very cattle standing distinct upon the
heights, and lowing softly, answering each
other, while the sheep were bleating from
height to height.

Like a lazy log upon the water lay
the yawl, rolled this way, that way, by
the liquid mountains which rose around
her, while in the bow the men stood
whispering together amongst themselves,
gazing suspiciously at the lowering sky.

Nina still sat silent, while close behind
her was Aileen O'Connor, looking stern
and forbidding, with her hands crossed,
ad her bloodless lips compressed. Gazing
longingly at the land which they
had left, Nina remained motionless. At
length, overcome by extreme excitement
and fatigue, her eyes closed, her head
rested against the bulwark, she passed
her arm around the side riocrino- of the
ship, and fell into a half-fainting doze.
She had remained thus for some time,
when she was suddenly and violently
awakened. The vessel gave a tremendous
lurch, throwing her forward upon the
deck, almost into the sea. In a moment
she was caught by one of the sailors
and lifted to her feet. She opened her
eyes and looked around. To her amazement,

it had grown perfectly dark, no
single landmark was visible. The wind,
which had risen, whistled shrilly amidst
the rigging. With a clatter of feet the
men hurried to and fro upon the deck, and
the vessel, with all her sails well reefed, was
tearing along through a swiftly-rising sea.

Nina looked for her aunt. She was
standing in the stern, holding on by a
part of the shrouds, her head uncovered,
a black shawl drawn tightly around her
shoulders, her grey hair blown wildly
about her face, and her eyes steadfastly
fixed before her.

Clear away, mistress, if 'tis not into
the sea that you want to go."

And as the sailor pushed roughly past,
Nina scrambled back to her place, and
took a firm hold of the rigging.

She was just in time. The yawl gave
a great plunge, which sent the men staggering
along the deck; and, simultaneously,
a huge wave arose, and dashed
foaming upon the deck, sweeping all that
lay there into the sea.

Drenched now from head to foot, Nina
clung still tighter, and watched the darkness
of the sea. Black and angry arose
the huge waves, crested with boiling surf,
which hissed and foamed upon them,
and, being caught up by the wind, was
scattered in the air like drifting smoke,
while the ship plunged headlong into
the ocean, now rising, suspended in the
air, then plunging down, lost for a
moment in a mass of sea smoke and
hissing foam.

Above, the heavens loomed threateningly.

Thick black masses of cloud, rudely rent
asunder by the rising wind, were shot swiftly
across the sky, while in the west, vivid rays
of light played momentarily, cutting up the
clouds and flashing down upon the sea ; the
thunder crashed and roared overhead.

Around was darkness impenetrable, shutting
out the land, veiling all save the flashing
foam which flew about the ship. At
the wheel the steersman stood, buttoned
to the throat, with his shiny cap pulled low
over his anxious eyes.

Where are we ? " asked Nina. But
before the man could reply there was a
sudden rush.

"Lower the peak!" cried a voice,
and no sooner was the order obeyed
than a wild gust struck the vessel, tearing
fiercely at the dripping sail as

if to rend it into shreds, while the
water washed in a stream about the deck.
There was a crash. As the gust lessened
in violence the ship righted herself,
quivering from stem to stern, and
one or two rope - ends dangled in the
air.

Three blocks gone ; ease her up, or we'll
lose every stitch."

Can't you make out her bearings,
skipper ? " asked the steersman.

No ; keep her a-head ; I fancy we're in
the open." The skipper disappeared, while
the steersman muttered —

Why the devil did he come out on this
h — of a coast without a compass ? Who
on earth could see through that blackness ?
Laugh ! " as a wave curled above him and
washed him from head to foot : " the

storm's growing. Maybe the — witches
mean to drown us ; anyhow, we stand a
poor chance of reaching land this night."

Every moment the wind increased ; wildly
it shrieked around the vessel, fiercely it tore
at the fragments of dripping sail, while with
almost bare poles, dripping as she arose
from the waves, the yawl plunged on.
Throughout all this tumult, still holding
on by the side rigging of the ship, the
old woman kept her place. Again and
again the waves arose and dashed about
her, drenching her from head to foot, and
almost sweeping her into the sea. Her
hands were bruised with clinging, her grey
hair was blown about by the wind, and
her cheeks were cut by the blinding sea
scum which was ever dashed rudely into
her face. The shrieking wind was bitter.

the water was almost frozen upon the deck,
but Aileen O'Connor seemed indifferent to
the elements ; her face was set. her lacklustre
eyes retained their hard, cold look ;
yet ever as they fell upon Xina, who,
drenched and shivering, clung wildly to
the vessel's side, the hard, cold gleam of
the face softened, as her bloodless lips
muttered, —

"iJedidit!— Aedidit!"

Suddenly a vivid flash of light illuminated
the whole ocean. It seemed that
the heavens had been torn apart, and, blazing
with lurid light, fallen down upon
the sea. Almost simultaneously there was
a tremendous crash ; the vessel trembled
from stem to stern, quivered like a frightened
thing, and again plunged onward.
The seamen shrieked. Nina covered her

eyes with her hand, and when she looked
again all had become dark. The skipper
stood calling loudly to his men. On the
deck splinters of wood and sail lay scattered,
while several men were employed in cutting
the wreck away. The mizen-mast had been
shivered to splinters by the lightning flash,
and one man, struck to death, washed from
the deck into the sea.

Bereft now of mizen-mast, and scarcely
a shred of sail left upon her pole, the
vessel laboured on, though the violence of
the storm seemed slowly to increase. Nina,
growing sick with fear, clung tighter to
the bulwarks ; while the waves swept over
her again and again. Eagerly she tried to
penetrate the darkness, and catch a glimpse
of the faces of the sailors in vain. Again
and again she asked some question, but

received no reply. The men rushed here
and there, clinging to the ropes as they
went, heedless of all save the growing peril.
Quivering through and through, drenched
from mast to stern, the great yawl tossed
like a toy upon the waves. For a moment
she was suspended high in the air, on the
crest of a breaking wave ; then, with a
deafening crash, she plunged down as if
into the very depths of the ocean. Simultaneously
then was a cry, a rush, a roar
of breaking waves, and a heavy surging
sound, and above the din arose the voice
of the skipper, —

Man the pumps ! "

Instantly some of the sailors rushed to
obey the command ; while others remained
to tear down the last remaining shred of
sail.

She's sinking ! " cried one of tHe men ;
'* we had better leave her and take to
the boat?"

Ghost of a chance you'd have in the
boat in this sea. Keep to the pumps ;
maybe we'll save her."

Never ; the water's knee-deep in the
hold—"

The rest was lost. A shrieking squall
swept down upon the ship, burying her
side in the sea ; a wave broke directly
above her, and fell with a roar upon her
deck, then poured again into the ocean.
Tremblingly the vessel righted herself,
and the skipper, with the water running
off him in a stream, turned again to the
helmsman. He was gone, swept away
into the sea, and the ship was drifting
helplessly upon the waves. Another man

sprang to his place, but too late. Beaten
about like a cork upon the ocean, utterly
unmanageable, with a stream of water
pouring into her hold, the vessel drifted
on to destruction. The skipper crept
anxiously along the deck, and sought his
men, and at his approach there was a cry, —

She's foundering ! — the water's rising ;
we cannot keep her afloat much longer."

Lower the boat ! " the skipper cried
hastily ; " 'tis our only chance."

The pumps were at once deserted, and
there was a rush on deck while the boat
was being lowered into the sea.

Up to this Nina had remained silent,
dreading to speak, afraid to move, lest a
wave should suddenly break above her
and sweep her from the deck. But when
she saw the crew about to desert the

vessel, the dread of being overlooked and
left there to die overcame all her other
fears, and cautiously leaving her place,
she seized the arm of a sailor who was
hurrying by —

'await," she said; "for heaven's sake
help me to get my aunt over yonder to
the boat ! "

The man roughly shook her away.

Hold off, mistress ; the old witch
must take her chance. Every man for
himself."

He rushed past her on to the other
side of the vessel, and disappeared over
into the boat. The girl crept back to
where her aunt stood, took her round the
waist, and said hurriedly, —

Come, Aunt Aileen, quick, before another
wave breaks, or we shall be left ! "

Strengthened in her excitement, she
dragged the old woman along the deck
to the spot where the boat was lowered.
All the crew had descended ; the boat
was about to push off, and the skipper,
who alone stood on the deck, was preparing
to leap in, when Nina relinquished
her aunt and seized him, forcibly holding
him back.

Let us come first," she cried ; " hand
my aunt down."

The man turned.

There's no room there," he said ; " the
boat's full enough, and I must look to my

crew."

Oh, never leave us, never leave us
here ! " Nina cried, holding him tightly by
the arm, but he roughly pushed her away.

Ghost of a chance we'd have with the

VOL. II. N

pair of you on board ; we must look to
ourselves, I tell you ; " and, as if to quiet
his own conscience qualms, lie mentally
added, " maybe, after all, the folks were
right, and, if they're a couple of witches,
they'd surely work us more harm ; better
leave them where they are."

In a moment he leapt over the side into
the boat, and loudly commanded the men
to push off.

Frantic with terror, Nina screamed
aloud, —

Come back ! take my aunt ; only take
her, and I will stay. Have pity, for God's
sake, have pity ! "

Her prayers were lost. Heedless of all
save their own safety, the men pulled away
into the breaking waves ; one moment
more, and they were lost to view, while

speechless, terror-stricken, and sick, Nina
and Aileen O'Connor stood alone on the
deck of the foundering vessel.

For a moment the girl stood gazing with
terrified eyes at the spot where the boat
had disappeared, then, seeing that her only
hope had gone, she turned, and without a
word, crouched down on the deck beside her
aunt. Silent, speechless, motionless, the oM
woman sat upon the drenching boards, her
gaunt figure drawn up straight, and her
lack-lustre eyes fixed vacantly upon the sea.

Seemingly impenetrable to all outward
sensations, she sat like a figure of stone,
but when the girl crouched down beside
her, she turned her head, and almost instinctively
her bony arm was reached forth,
and clasped around Nina's neck. Never
before, in the whole course of her life, had

Nina felt that hard hand rest so gently
upon her, never before had she received
one sign of affection from the stern woman
whom she called her aunt.

Always sullen and bitter, the woman
had ever repelled any outward show of
love in the child, who, from her infancy,
had lived under strict restraint, uncared
for, and with none but the gloomy woman
for whom to care.

When Nina felt the hard hand pressed
so softly around her neck, her excitement
was wrought to its fullest pitch. Clasping
her arms around her aunt's waist, she burst
into hysterical tears.

•' Oh aunt, dear Aunt Aileen," she cried,
it was cruel of them to leave you here ;
why did they not take you, and leave me
here alone ? "

Immediately the . old woman withdrew
her arm, and broke out in her wonted
querulous tones.

Why should they take me ? Isn't it
as well for an old woman like me to die ? "
Then, as Nina remained silent, she continued
in a more excited tone, " Why
should you blame them, when they are not
to blame ? Would they have brought us
out here ? .Would they have exiled us
from Cruna ? 'Tis no fault of theirs that
we die, but of him, and him alone, who
placed us in their hands ! "

He was cruel, too," said Nina softly ;
"he is a bad man, but maybe he never
thought of this ; he could not foresee the
storm."

•' Could he not ? " cried the old woman
fiercely ; " but I tell you he could, Xina.

'Twas what he meant, for us to die together.
He has worked it out at last, he
has brought vengeance upon himself, if he
only knew \ "

'aunt Aileen," cried the girl.

The old woman started, drew up her gaunt
figure to its full height, grasped the rigging
with one hand, and with the other pointed
to the flashing sky.

If I called God's vengeance upon him,"
she cried, " if God's wrath descended upon
his head, he could not be more crushed
down than he is ; and who has done this,
but I, Aileen O'Connor, the girl whom he
ruined, the girl whom he hunted from his
dominions, and cast away, with an old man,
to starve in the southern land ! Ay ! " she
continued, half muttering to herself, " little
(good has come to him : God's curse has

followed him ; and now this is the
end."

Nina clasped her arms still tighter around
the old woman's waist, as she cried, " Aunt,
dear Aunt Aileen, speak to me, kiss me
once, only once ; the vessel is sinking, we
have not long to live ! "

Turning her dreary face towards the
girl, the old woman looked steadfastly
into her eyes.

We shall die," she said, in her solemn,
querulous voice. " Yes, we shall die together.
Did I not say so ? The child
follows the old woman, and shares the same
fate. Did I not tell him so, Nina ? "

Trembling and terror - stricken Nina
stood before the gaunt form. The vacant
eyes looked wild and wandering, the pale
grey face gleamed ghastly.

As she looked upon the figure and
listened to the wild wandering words,
Nina felt afraid, for she thought, " The
fear of death is maddening her, she does
not know what she says," and as the girl
glanced at the breaking waves, felt the
piercing wind, saw the impenetrable darkness
gather thicker around her, and the
sky flash down, as it were, upon her head,
she cried, —

It was cruel to send her here, cruel,
cruel." Then stretching forth her arms,
she added, — '* Aunt Aileen, never talk like
that ; try to forgive him now as I do."

You, child ; what have you to forgive ?
Every sorrow that he heaped upon you will
return like a firebrand to burn him ; little
did he know what he did when he turned
you away."

Oh ! what do you mean ? " cried Nina,
still clinsjinor to her aunt. *' If there is some
secret, tell me now, Aunt Aileen, before
we die."

Tell you ? Yes, I will tell you, though
I know you will turn from me, and
hate me for it. But I am not solely to
blame ; 'tis through him I have injured
you. I never meant you harm, Xina, all
I wanted was to be revenged . on him. My
heart was full of hatred to the last. For
it I sacrificed your life, and now, I have
wrought your death."

White and terrified Nina listened in
wonder.

What does it aU mean '{ Aunt Aileen,
tell me the truth ! " she cried ; but ere the
old woman could reply, the yawl plunged
down, buried in the water, then, rising

again, suspended in the air on the crest of
a wave, she descended again with a crash
that shook her through. The waves arose
and washed about her, but she remained
split in twain, firmly fixed on unseen rocks,
her stern raised in the air, and her bow
plunged forward.

It seemed that in one moment more the
hull of the ship would divide and sink
beneath the waves. In the stern, the girl
and the old woman sat hand-in-hand,
as with wild eyes and pale face, Nina
looked at the splitting planks of the
vessel.

Presently she spoke.

Aunt Aileen ! "

The querulous voice replied sharply, —

Why should you call me aunt ? You
are no kin of mine ; he is your father ! "

He ! whom ? " asked Xina, starting to
her feet.

He who sent you here — he who shunned
you, and cursed you for a witch ; the master
of Cruna."

Nina stood orazincf into the old woman's
face in awe and wonder, while softly beneath
her breath, and with clay-cold lips,
she repeated, —

'' He ! my father ! ''

Yes," repeated the old woman, as some
of the old wicked light gleamed again in
her eyes. " He is your father, Nina — you
are nothing to me ; body and soul, you
belong to him. How bravely he cursed,
his daughter, did he not, his only
child?" then looking at the girl who
still stood motionless as marble, she continued,
—

'' Turn from me, Nina, curse me now as
I deserve, and make me feel that I am
alone. You are his child ; flesh of his
flesh, bone of his bone. Oh, Nina, how I
hated you when I thought of this ; how
my heart turned against you. I almost
believed you were like him. I was hard
and unkind when I looked into your pretty
face and knew you belonged to him; and
I kept you, I clutched you tighter, to
keep you from him, when I thought how
happy he would be if he knew. Nina, I
did this — I have wronged you — made you
an instrument to my revenge ; now turn
from me, curse me as I deserve, and let me
die ! "

As the old woman paused, the girl threw
up her arms and clasped them around the
withered neck.

God ! why did I not die before you
told me this ? " she cried. " Aunt, dearest
aunt, come closer — whisper — tell me it is
not true ! "

It is true, Nina," the old woman replied.
'' ^Vhy do you cling to me like this V

Because I love you," the girl replied.
Dear Aunt Aileen, I have always loved
you, but I cannot care for that man. Think
of that — think of all that has passed, and
pity me. God, have pity ! Aunt, do not
turn away ; kiss me now, and say you love
me too ! "

A new light filled the old woman's eyes ;
the grim expression of the face grew softer,
and the hard lines about the mouth more
gentle as Aileen looked down at the clinging
form. For a moment she stood irresolute,
then, trembling like a leaf, she bent her

head, put her arms around the girl's neck,
and kissed her lips.

I do love you," she murmured, " though
God knows I never thought to love Az'.s*
child. God forgive me, God forgive me!"

Ardently Nina returned the cold caress,
then with her arms about the old woman's
neck she cried, —

Dear Aunt Aileen, pray God to forgive
them all, and — "

Suddenly the vessel gave a great lurch.
Nina caught the rigging ; Aileen O'Connor
was cast flat upon the deck. There was a
roar of breaking waves ; the hull of the
ship was split in two. Heeling forward,
the forepart was soon buried in the foam,
and that upon which Nina stood shook and
trembled, and seemed to be heeling over
into the waves.

With a face pale as death Nina looked
at the inrushing sea ; then she closed her
eyes and fell upon her knees, clasping her
arms around the old woman's neck with
passionate sobs. Above the waves broke,
and around the sea washed, with a never-ceasing
roar, while on the deck, covered
with blinding foam, the two figures lay
locked in a last embrace.

With dawn came calm. On the
shore of Cruna Island the waters
washed with dreary murmurs,
while the peaks of the dripping crags which
overhung the sea were enshrouded in a
thick white mist, which loomed over the
surface of the ocean, utterly concealing
every object from view. Throughout the
night, George Dunroon had wandered on
the shore like a restless spirit, but no
sooner did the dawn begin to break than
he rowed out to the cutter which, on the

previous night, had brought him home,
and began making hasty preparations to
set out in search of Nina. On the top of
the Creag-na-Ghoill, which commanded a
view of the surrounding ocean, a crowd of
islanders were collected, while others stood
on the shore, studying the movements of
the young master, and uttering various
commentaries upon his actions.

"What's the good of it, at all, at all?"
said one ; " sure the colleen's safe enough.
That captain wasn't one to weather a
storm, but he'd just run the yawl into Torpor
harbour, and keep her safe till morning."

Into Storport, is it ? " returned another
; " how could he do that, and the
wind blowing due north-west ? No, no,
she's either run south before the wind or

foundered in open water'*

VOL. II.

Suddenly there was a cry from the crowd
on the top of the crag, and a dozen fingers
were pointed seaward. For a moment the
mist had scattered, and had disclosed to
their view a momentary glimpse of some
dark mass looming far out on the sea.
George was at once summoned, but ere he
had reached the spot the mist had again
condensed, and again hung heavy over the
waters. As the dawn advanced, it seemed
to grow more dense, although here and
there it became scattered like sea-smoke.
Suddenly, however, the whole mass began
to stir, and in one thick cloud it slowly
lifted like a curtain from the sea. As it
ascended, the surface of the ocean became
clearly visible, and all now saw distinctly
a huge black mass fixed between the
sharp teeth of a reef of rocks, which

arose black and jagged several miles from
the shore. As George looked, his head
turned dizzy, his heart stood still with
anticipation.

The hull of a small vessel of some sort
was split in twain on the rocks, the bow
being plunged forward in the waves, and
the stern raised in the air.

George turned to the crowd.

*' You think it's the yawl ? " he asked ina
low voice.

It looks like her, sir."

"Get the boat," replied George; "we'll
row out."

Sure 'tis no use, yer honor ; there's no
living soul aboard that wreck ! "

Get the boat," commanded George
again, "before it is too late!"

Without another word the islanders ran

forward to launch the skiff, while George
followed them, glancing continually seaward.
The prediction of the people seemed
correct ; no living soul appeared on board
the wreck ; nothing was visible but the
black hull itself. George's heart sank, but
he did not despair. Nina might be below,
he thought ; she might be in some corner
of the vessel hidden from his sight. Impatiently
he urged on the men, as, sitting
in the stern of the skiff, he directed her
course towards the reef.

As the boat left the shore and drew
nearer the rocks, George, still watching
the wreck, thought he could distinguish
a figure on the deck. As he approached
closer, however, his view of the
deck was cut off, the stern of the yawl
Laving heeled over, and her broadside

being presented to the surf. The sea was
calm ; but near the rocks the water was
sucked up and cast back so violently, that
approach was perilous. Keeping a distance
from the crag, the men pulled cautiously
round, and were about to cling on to
the wreck when there was a sudden tumult
and a cry, —

Pull for your lives ! "

The skiff had darted only a short distance
from the wreck when the yawl separated.
The fore part, plunging entirely
forward, sank beneath the water. The
stern quivered, and seemed about to follow.
George rose, prepared to jump overboard,
when he was forcibly retained in his
seat, and the skiff once more pulled towards
the wreck. Pausing beneath the
stern, one of the men threw up a grapnel ;

and George, divested of boots and coat,
seized the rope, and before he could be
stopped, was swinging in the air, ascending
the rope which hung from the vessel.

A minute after, he stood on the deck
of the yawl. There he paused, gazing
upon a sight which froze the blood in his
veins. Lying flat on the deck, her black
clothes drenched and clinging feebly about
her form, and her grey hair scattered
like drift-weed around her, was Aileen
O'Connor, stone-dead. Sitting close beside
this figure, with her eyes fixed vacantly
upon the ghastly face, was another — living.
Drenched too from head to foot — her face
pale as that of the corpse beside her, her
long hair hanging about her shoulders ;
one hand, bruised and bleeding, supported
her chin ; the other hung listlessly by her

side. She sat motionless, like one in a
total trance. For a moment George stood
chained to the spot, gazing in speechless
agony at the figures ; then he walked
forward, fell upon his knees, and clasped
Nina passionately in his arms. The girl
did not speak nor start ; but quietly raising
her eyes, she looked into his face with
a vacant, bewildered stare.

One by one the islanders clambered upon
the deck, and stood looking upon the
scene, and into their faces Nina glanced
with the same vacant look in her eyes.
Lifting the corpse of Aileen O'Connor,
they conveyed it to the skiff, and quietly
and unresisting Nina followed. When
lie boat reached land the girl stood on
the shore like one in a dream ; but George
put his arm around her and led her home.

For many weeks after that day the
girl lay raving in fever, hovering on
the brink of death. Anxiously George
watched in the sick-room ; while Mr Dun-room,
with bowed head and gloomy countenance,
walked the house in sullen silence.
After prolonged suffering, Nina gradually
began to improve ; and as she slowly regained
her health, the vacant look which
had haunted George began to fade from
her eyes, and a more intelligent light
illuminated them, until, at last, she fully
recovered the reason which she had temporarily
lost. The expression of her face
was sadder than it had been ; her voice
was gentle and very tender. The awful
anguish which she had endured had left
its mark.

For a time she was utterly unable to shake

off the morbid depression which weighed
upon her. George was most constant in
his attentions, and, as Nina gradually improved
under his care, he at length pressed
her to fulfil the promise which she had made
to him long before. After much hesitation,
Nina consented. The two were married,
and forthwith took up their abode in the
gloomy dwelling of the Master of Cruna.

True to his promise, Mr Dunroon recognised
Nina as his daughter, though he
never exhibited towards her a fathers
affection, but submitted in sullen silence
to his fate. Yet Nina's friendliness gradually
gained some influence over his hard
nature, and he beo^an to grow more gentle
in his bearing as years went by.

After it had been conveyed to the land,
and received the sacred rites of the Church,

the body of the old woman was buried
near the sands of the surging sea. The
grass grows green above her, the sea-smoke
dashes over her head, and the stone upon
which, during life, she had been wont to
gaze, at length marks the last resting-place
of

AiLEEN O'Connor."

fire.

S I finished the story, the book
fell upon my knee, and my eyes
rested sadly upon the dying

I had been strangely interested, for
the characters were so faintly disguised,
that, after the first few pages, I had
had little difficulty in recognising them ; 1
understood now the meaning of that light
which had so puzzled me as I had gazed
into my hostess's sorrowful face ; I understood
now the look of intense pain which

had crossed her countenance when I lightly
spoke of witchcraft ; and the interest which
I already felt for this beautiful creature and
her husband increased tenfold.

I got little sleep that night, and, shortly
after daybreak, I rose, weary with courting
slumber.

I was the first to descend the stairs, so
I quietly let myself out of the house, and
went for a stroll towards the sea.

Some time later, as I was returning to
the house, I met Nora.

** Have you read the story ? " she asked.

"Yes."

"swell, then, I needn't tell you to be
careful not to talk about witchcraft aofain.
It's twenty years since all that happened,
and yet Nina feels as strongly about it as
ever, I think. . Do you see that graveyard

on the hillside ? old Mr Dunroon is
buried there ; and, if you will come with
me, m show you the old woman's tomb."

We walked away, and soon came to it, —
a quaintly-fashioned tombstone set in the
earth close to the sea. On it was traced,
in letters which were fast wearing away, —

AiLEEN O'Connor,

Drowned at Sea on the 30th day of January 18 — .
May She rest in Peace.

The stone was in good order, and evidently
tended by careful hands.

"Nina hadn't much cause to love her,"
said Nora ; " but you see she cares for her
even after so many years."

"We turned to retrace our steps towards
the house ; presently Nora paused again,
and drew my attention to a heap of stones.

That is where the hut stood," she said,
the hut that poor Nina saw burnt to the
ground while she was being driven out to
sea, — it is the memory of that time which
makes them determined to live here, to
improve the people, and to prevent the
repetition of such a scene."

We stayed several days on Cruna Island,
the guests of the master and his wife. "We
fished his rivers, shot over his land, and
altogether managed to get some of the best
sport we had had for months. But at
last the visit terminated, and the day of
our departure really arrived.

In our little craft was stowed away
most of the game, and a couple of the
salmon we had killed, and which they
insisted upon our taking.

Kathleen was loaded with presents for

the girls who had remained at home, while
I had been forced to accept one of Dun-room
s most valuable dogs. Altogether the
leave-taking was affecting;, and we were
overwhelmed with invitations to come
again.

We had intended to leave pretty early,
but the leave - taking and the gathering
together of the presents had so delayed
us, that ere we finally pushed off, and
took a last farewell of Cruna, the day
was well nigh spent.

There was a fair breeze blowing, so we
put up the sail, and the Ariel, bending
slightly to one side, sped onward like a
bird. We looked back, my imcle and I
waved our hats, the girls their handkerchiefs,
for there, on the beach, stood Dun-room
and his wife ; they had accompanied

us down to the beach, and they now
stood watching our boat as it sped out
to sea.

We sailed right across, but when we
reached the other side the sail had to
come down, and the men took to their
oars again. By this time it was twilight.
The silence of night had fallen on land
and sea ; the wild cry of the sea-birds
rang with strange echoes through the night.
The lofty cliffs, magnified by the dim light,
towered up above the glassy waters, which
washed unceasingly about their feet, while
the heavens were sparkling in all their
starry radiance. Ever and anon, as we
glided by the crags, we were startled by a
great flutter of wings, and some frightened
sea-bird, awakened from its slumbers by
the splashing of the oars, passed so close

to me, that his winsrs almost brushed mv
cheek, and his shrill cries resounded with
strange echoes through the nio-ht, as he
faded slowly away.

When we leapt on to the shore at
Storport it was quite dark ; we were
rather tired, and anxious to get back to
the cosy comfort of the Lodge. We were
soon ready to depart ; my uncle had given
his instructions to the boatmen, and I had
managed to get possession of Oona's hand,
when suddenly we were arrested.

Kathleen was accosted by an old man,
who implored her to go with him to see
his daughter, who was sick. Kathleen
must go at once, or the woman might
die before she could reach the house.

Kathleen did not hesitate — she was well
used to such demands. She paused for a

VOL. II. p

moment, to give some instructions to Nora
and Oona, then she turned to follow the
nan alone.

This I would not permit. In spite of
her protestations, I insisted upon accompanying
her ; so, after impressing upon
the girls to be sure and have a substantial
meal ready for us when we got back,
we walked off together in the old man's
wake.

We followed him for about a mile over
the hills, stumbling through the darkness,
and tumbling in and out of miserable bog-holes,
until we stood before a low thatched
hut, surrounded with filth.

When we entered, the smoke was so
thick that I could see nothing, but I
heard the grunting of pigs, the babbling
of old hags, and the moans of the sick

woman, and next I was startled by trio
lowing of a cow, which was standing close
to my side. The smell which met us was
so offensive that I saw Kathleen pause
and turn, as if about to rush again into
the open air ; but remembering, doubtless,
the poor woman who was lying helplessly
there, and to whom she might be of some
service, she strengthened up her failing
spirit, and took her stand. By-and-by
the smoke cleared, and we could distinctly
see all the objects in the room.

In a corner stood a dilapidated four-post
bedstead, which, to my astonishment,
was unoccupied ; but on the floor,
before the fire, was strewn a little straw,
and upon that lay the sick woman, looking
pale as death, and uttering feeble
moans. Around her squatted the hags,

some on the floor, some on benches, and
one was actually sitting upon the upturned
black cauldron. They were most of them
smoking, some were profusely weeping, and
all were waiting for the sufferer to die,
without lifting a finger either to try and
save her or to alleviate her sufferings in
any way. At the time this amazed me,
but I have since learned that it is the
true Connaught mode. When a woman
is taken ill, she does not say, " Send for
the doctor," or ask for help ; her exclamation
is, "I'm done — send for the priest,"
and she tries to compose herself for death.
.Sometimes, by a miracle, she recovers, but
more frequently she dies.

Behind the invalid stood a group of
men, commenting in audible whispers upon
her ghastly look, and the certainty of her

death ; all of which remarks were followed
by feeble moans from the sufferer.

When Kathleen approached, the woman
raised her eyes, and fixed them pitifully
upon her face, and the women, with a
wild gabble of Irish, which I supposed
must be words of welcome, made way for
her. She bent over the sufferer, then I
saw her rise and draw back, the smell
was so great as to be too much even for
her. The rages with which the sufferer
was clothed, and the rags which were
thrown over her, were positively decayed
with filth.

Kathleen spoke rapidly to the men in
Irish, and they shuffled out of the house ;
after a deal of rapid talking, she induced
half the crowd of old women to follow
them : then she turned to me.

Jack," she said, " do you still persist iii
waiting for me ? If so, I must get you
either to step into a little room over there,
where the horse is stabled, or wait outside.
I must make them wash the poor creature,
and put her into bed, before I can do anything
; the stench is frightful."

I again expressed my determination to

wait for her, and elected to do so in the

I

open air. I took a cigar from my pocket,
lit it with a burning sod from the hearth,
and stepped at once outside the cabin.

As I walked up and down in the darkness,
I could not help thinking of my
cousin, and the kind of life which she had
set herself to lead. I could not but admire
Kathleen, for I knew what she had
to endure. The cause of half the diseases
in the village, was the dirt and filth in

which the people lived. Soap and water
and clean linen were Kathleen's principal
remedies, and in most cases they
were marvellously successful.

The ignorance of the people is pitiful ;
more than half the population of the
village are unable to read a single sentence
or form a letter. But they do not regret.
They are not ambitious ; they are content
to live as their fathers did before them, —
to cut and gather turf, and to cultivate a
small piece of ground which is rented with
each hut. The spirit of enterprise never
once rises in their dull and listless dispositions.
They plod through their lives
without the slightest variation or enlightenment,
and they quietly fall to sleep,
leaving their children to pursue the same
course after them.

Yet, with all their faults, they are very
generous and kind-hearted. The stranger
is. ever made welcome to their hearth
and board, and if they receive a kindness,
however slight, they always endeavour to
make ample return.

The only little bit of deception in which
they indulge is the making of Potheen, or
mountain-dew. Although there is in the
village a barrack full of military-looking
policemen, and despite the fact that several
illicit stills are yearly found and seized,
and their owners compelled to pay the
heavy fine of six pounds, the authorities
have not been able to stop the sale or
manufacture of this contraband article.
But the fluid is not traded in to any great
extent ; it is made principally for home
use, to keep out the cold in the wintertime,

when the snow is thickly covering
the frozen ground, and the cold, north
wind is blowing in from the storm-tossed
sea. Poor, half-frozen creatures ! what
would life be worth to them without this
one comfort ? It is the delight, the
excitement, and the only one luxury of
their lives. A solitary people in a solitary
waste, living with their pigs and cattle in
wretched little mud-huts, their only clothing
a few dirty rags, and their only food
potatoes ; who could deny them this ?

My reflections were brought to an end
by the sudden appearance of a cauliagh,
who invited me to re-enter the cabin. I
did so, and found matters considerably
improved. The sick woman, clean and-comfortably
clothed, was lying now upon
the bed in a calm sleep. Kathleen, looking

flushed and somewhat tired, was fastening
on her cloak. All her thoughts, as usual,
were for some one else.

You must be tired, Jack," she said ;
*' have a glass of something before we start,
there's plenty of potheen, and milk, too,
in the house ; " and the old man who had
brought us thither added his entreaties,
but I refused. In truth, I was anxious
that Kathleen should get back. She
turned to the old man again, —

Follow us down as soon as you like,"
she said ; *' I shall prepare your basket as
soon as I get home." Then she took my
arm, and we departed.

When we reached the Lodge, a very
different picture awaited us. In the diningroom
a bright fire filled the grate, and
about a dozen candles were burning. My

uncle was in his easy-chair, quietly enjoying
his pipe, and watching Amy, who,
kneeling on the hearth, was trying to make
Nero give my dog a welcome. Oona, clad
again in her favourite white, was seated
at the piano, playing some tender Irish
airs ; while Nora, with the others kneeling
before her, was exhibiting the presents
which had been sent by the mistress of Cruna.
The table was spread for a good dinner.

The girls welcomed us with a cry of
delight, for two of them, at least, were
hungry, and eager to begin. But, although
Kathleen was tired to death, her first care
was to prepare the basket of necessaries
which she had promised to send up to the
sick woman.

This done, we were at liberty to enjoy
ourselves.

Our meal over, I lit my cigar, and some
of us strolled to the kitchen to have a chat
with the men, who we believed must by
this time have finished their meal, and be
enjoying their pipes by the fire. Our
imaginary picture had been partly right,
but it remained for our eyes to complete
it. The men had finished their meal, lit
up their pipes, and were seated around
the fire ; but their eyes were fixed with
strange intensity upon a figure — no other,
indeed, than ConoUy, who, paper in hand,
was reading, with an evident sense of
enjoyment, an account of a double murder
which had recently been committed. He-was
greatly excited, for his hands and
voice both trembled, as he exclaimed, in
conclusion, —

"They both fell dead-stone dead —

and I say, more power to the hand that
done it ! "

Conolly, you blackguard ! " shouted
my uncle, who stood at the kitchen door,
put that paper in the fire ! "

He dropped the paper and looked up,
and I saw at once that something was
wrono\ He had been drinking. There

o o

was a wandering light in his eyes, his jaw
was set, and instead of the usual smile of
infantine mildness, his face wore a look
of sullen and fixed resolve. Was this
Conolly ? I could hardly believe it —
the change was so complete.

Do you hear what I say, Conolly ? "
repeated my uncle ; " put that paper in
the fire ! "

** What way, yer honor ? " answered the
man, still grasping the paper firmly in

his hand ; " what harm can the paper
do entirely ? "

Not much of itself, but a good deal if
left with you. Listen to me, ConoUy,
I won't have you coming here and corrupting
the boys and girls with your
lawless talk and lawless ways. I won't
have you read to them all the accounts
of these crimes which are a disgrace to
Ireland."

A disgrace to Ireland," said Conolly
quietly ; " sure, yer honor, them's not the
only crimes that's a disgrace to the land ! "

What do you mean ? "

Just this, sor," continued Conolly,
who was growing more and more excited,
there be murders and murders. All
the world knows that for years the poor
Irishman has been crushed like a beast

beneath the cruel foot of the landlord —
he's had to feel the pinch of starvation,
and see his children die all round him
for lack of food ; he's had to be turned out
of the house that has sheltered him since
he was born, and maybe to die in the
ditch like a dog. Well, the world says
nothing to all this ; but when some poor
devil, in self-defence, strikes at the tyrant
that has been crushing him into his grave,
the world calls out and says it's murder,
and thirsts for the poor crater's blood."

And so it is murder ! " said my uncle.

You think so, yer honor ? Well, I
don't. I call it justice ; and when I hear
that another tant is down, I say, ' Praise
be to God, more power to the hand that
done it ! '"

More shame for you. If a man won't

pay his rent he ought to be turned
out."

'sure 'isn't always that he won't;
sometimes he can't," said Conolly ; " and
as to the turning out, yer honor didn't
say the likes 0' that when Mr O'Neil — God
blast his soul ! — turned me out of house
and home that winter when I was down
with the fever. He refused to give me
bite or sup, and told me if I didn't choose
to go to the workhouse I might die in the
road ; but 'twas yer honor that took mein,
and gave me work, and kept me from
committing murder. I don't forget the
man that took me in any more than I
forget the one that turned me out."

The speaker was very much excited ; his
eyes glared and his hand clenched, and,
for the first time in his life perhaps, he

looked really capable of bloodshed. My
uncle evidently saw this, for he turned the
conversation to other themes.

"Well," he said, '' I'm too tired to
discuss these questions to-night, Conolly ;
besides, I didn't come to the kitchen for
that, but to ask you if you could manage
to sleep here to-night ? "

Is it to-night, yer honor ? " said
ConoUy quietly, and looking decidedly
uncomfortable. He evidently didn't like
to refuse my uncle, and yet we could see
he had made other plans. My uncle
seeing this, grew firmer in his resolve.

"' It's the first favour you've ever done
me, and maybe it'll be the last. Will
ye sleep) here to-night or not, Conolly.
Yes or no ? "

After a good deal of hesitation Conolly

VOL. II. Q

consented to remain. Then my uncle
added carelessly, —

By the way, ConoUy, will ye lend me
the paper a bit ? I should like to read the
news."

And Conolly having reluctantly handed
it over, we returned to the dining-room to
smoke our last pipe before going to bed.

*^ I'm afraid," he said, " poor Conolly
will get himself into trouble some day.
Whenever he gets a drop of drink it's the
old cry — down with tyrants in general, and
one tyrant in particular. I wouldn't have
given much for O'Neil's life if he'd met
Conolly on a dark road to-night."

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

F. V. WHITE & Co's SELECT NOVELS.

Croivn scot cloth, ds. Gd. each.

The Following Volumes of the Series aee Now Ready,

And can be obtained of all Booksellers in Town and (Juiuitry, and at

all Railway Bookstalls.

]MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence

Marry AT.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs. Eiloart.

JOHN BULL says : — " Auy reader who wants a good story
thoroughly well told cannot do better than read • The Dean's Wife.' "

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.



SCOTSMAN says : — " Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and
altogether the best work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet
written."

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay,
Author of " The Queen of Connaught," &c.

GRAPHIC says: — "Compared with the former works of the
authoress of ' The Queen of Connaught' this novel must be pronounced
second to none."

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

LIFE says : — " ' Sweetheart and Wife* is a love idyll, skilfully painted
in the midst of many people and many scenes, described by one who
whites with that very rare attribute of the modern novelist — knowledge
of, and familiarity with, the society she pictures."

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat, Author of
My Sister the Actress," " A Broken Blossom," <Src.
COURT JOURNAL says :— " ' Phyllida' is decidedly one of the
best novels of the season."

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of
*' Recommended to Mercy."

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS,

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence ,

Author of " My Sister the Actress," " Phyllida,"
Love's Conflict," &c., &g. In picture boards, 2s.
post free, 2s. 4d.

SCOTSMAN says : — " Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and
altogether the best work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet
vv-ritten."

JOHN BULL says: — "A really charming story, full of delicate
pathos and quiet humour, pleasant to read, and pleasant to remember."

SYLVIA'S HOME JOURNAL says:— "This is an inexpensive
edition of one of the most charming, if not the most charming, of
Florence Marry at's works. There is not a dull page in the whole
book''

LLOYD'S says : — " ' A Broken Blossom' is a very brightly and
tenderly told story."

Also ready, uniform with the love,

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence

Marat, Author of " Love's Conflict," *' Phyllis'*
*' How They Loved Him," &c., &c. In picture boards,
2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

JOHN BULL says :— " * My Sister the Actress' is the best novel we
have had the pleasure of reading from the pen of Miss Florence
Marry at."

COURT JOURNAL says :— " Will be read through with avidity."

COURT CIRCULAR says:— "'My Sister the Actress' is infinitely

above the average run of novels A skilfully told and remarkably

interesting story which will add to Miss Marryat's reputation."

SCOTSMAN says :— " The tone of the book is distinctly wholesome."

DAILY NEWS says : — " It is both clever and amusing."

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

MY CONNAUGHT COUSINS. Bv Harriet
Jay, Author of " Two Men and a Maid'' " The Queen
of Connaught," &c. 3 vols.

ENTRANCED WITH A DREAM. By Richard

RowLATT, Author of "Fishing in Deep Waters."
3 vols.

BELL AND THE DOCTOR. By T. Sharp.

3 vols,

LOST IN THE CROWD. By the Author of
Recommended to Mercy." 3 vols.

FAIR FACES AND TRUE HEARTS. By the

Author of " Margaret Mortimer's Second Husband."
3 vols.

DAILY TELEGRAPH says •.— " It is a well-written novel, full of

interest, and not devoid of pathos The characters introduced

are all well di-awn, the tale has a sufficient air of reality about it, and
altogether the romance is one which should enhance the reputation of
its writer materially."

THE PRICE SHE PAID. By F. Lee Benedict,

Author of " St. Simon's Niece," <fec. 3 vols.

ALL A^IONG THE BARLEY. By Flora
Haytee. 3 vols.
MORNING POST says :— " It is a well-written and interesting: talc."

HOW THEY LOVED HIM By Florence
Marat, Author of " My Sister the Actress," " A
Broken Blossom," fcc. 3 vols. Second Edition.

Athenaeum says: — "Mrs. Lean has written a stronger book than
she ever wrote before."

P. V. Wite & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

THREE FAIR DAUGHTERS. By Laurence

Brooke, Author of " The Queen of Two Worlds," &c.
3 vols.

SPECTATOR says: — "This is a novel which shows real literary
skill and no small acquaintance with his craft in its author'

Athenaeum says :— " Mr. Brooke has told well what he had to
tell, and has produced three readable volumes, natural, entertaining,
and fairly artistic. . . . 'Three Fair Daughters' is a pretty and a
prettily-written tale."

COURT CIRCULAR says:— "Much as we liked Mr. Brooke's
former work, his last book infinitely surpasses it in every way. From
the first chapter to the last the attention of the reader is enchained."

QUEEN says : — "A vein of,' pleasant humour and lively fancy runs
through this story from beginning to end."

COURT JOURNAL says : — " Laurence Brooke is a brilliant writer."

SCOTSMAN says : — " There is not a dull page in the whole three
volumes."

MORNING POST says:— "In furnishing light, pleasant reading
and drawing lively pictures of modern society, Mr. Brooke has few
rivals."

A LOVELESS SACRIFICE. By Ina Cassius,

Author of " Guilty without Crime." 3 vols.

WESTERN DAILY MERCURY says :— " It is a cleverly-compiled
novel. The characters, which at first are light and sketchy,
gradually grow ia depth and significance, so as to produce lightness
and force as well as sufficiency. The witty conversations, the epigrams,
not unbounded with what is sympathetic and noble, impart a life and a
reality into the novel which are at once pleasant and enjoyable."

F. V. White & Co., 31, SoutHampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES,

MY LADY CLARE. By Mrs. Eiloart, Author
of " The Dean's Wife," " How He Won Her," " Some
of Our Girls," "Just a Woman," " St. Sedes," &c.,
&c. 3 vols.

DAILY TELEGRAPH says:— "The interest is maintained with
undeniable force and skilL"

SPECTATOR says :— " Mrs. Eiloart may be congratulated on having
written an extremely readable novel."

COURT CIRCULAR says :— "Mrs. Eiloart has once more produced
a very capital and interesting novel."

SUNDAY TIMES says:— "A clever and interesting story. The
characters are skilfully painted. A novel worth reading."

WAS HERS THE FAULT? By the Author of
A Cruel Secret," " Wooing a Sweetbread," &c. 3 vols.
Queen says : — " There is much cleverness in the story."
ACADEMY says : — " The book is very readable."

SWEETHEART And WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard. 3 vols. Second Edition.

WHITEHALL REVIEW says :—" The story from first to last is
attractive, and cannot fail to command wide favour. . . . There is,
indeed, throughout the whole of the story a most unusual power, net only
of language but of imagination, and the tender pathos, which is
introduced in no laboured fashion, adds a charm which it is difficult to
describe, but impossible for the reader not to appreciate."

COURT CIRCULAR says:— "There is a genuine flavour of the
old-fashioned romance in it which is too frequently lacking in what
may be termed the latter-day novel."

F. V. Whit & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR ONE VOLUME NOVELS,

THE PRIEST'S BLESSING. By Harriettt Jay,

Author of " Two Men and a Maid," " The Queen of
Connaught," &c. Reduced in price from. 10s. 6d. to
3s. 6d.

(Dedicated to the Right Hon. W E. Foresee, M.P.)

ERA says : — ** Told with much pathos and power."

SATURDAY REVIEW says—" We can say for ourselves that we*
have read its three hundred pages with unfailing interest."

DAILY TELEGRAPH says : — " Intimate knowledge of the national
character is shown by the writer, who inscribes her book to Mr. Forster
in earnest and somewhat impulsive language."

DARCY AND FRIENDS. By Joseph McKim.

Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

PUBLIC OPINION says:— "The description and dialogue of this
tale are exceptionally good, and we have no hesitation in saying that
the present tale is of high quality and indicates an amount of appreciation
of human character on which we can only give the most
favourable verdict."

THE TWO VICTORS. By E. Befell Benjamin.

Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

JOHN BULL says : — " We shall not disclose the plot, but leave our
readers the pleasure of unravelling it for themselves, merely saying that
the story is well told and of a healthy tone throughout."

AMICO'S IJTTLE GIRL. By Miss Montgomery
Campbell. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

COURT JOURNAL says : — " The world of art, both of music and
painting, is charmingly explored in ' Amico's Little Girl,' and much
agreeable information concerning both is conveyed by the sojourn of
the different personages in Italy and Germany."

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

MISCELLANEOUS PUBLICATIONS.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF FRED.
G. Burney, Col. Commanding the Royal Horse
Guards Blue, Author of " A Ride to Khiva." In
Picture Cover, Is. Post free, Is. 2d.

POEMS AND LYRICS FOR IDLE HOURS.

By Charlotte A. Price. Post 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

Pears. By Mrs. C. B. Laxgstox. Cap. 8vo.
Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s.

UNCLE GRUMPY, and other Plays for Juvenile
Actors and Actresses. By R. St. John Cornet.
Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. Post free, 2s. 3d.

LIVERPOOL DAILY POST says :— " A pleasant little work, which
will be a valuable acquisition to boys and girls in holiday time. The
plays are bright and humorous, and, as set forth on the title-page, maybe
easily learned, easily acted, and easily mounted,"

DUNDEE ADVERTISER says :— " As a book of parlour theatricals
it is admirably suited to its purpose."

UNCLE x\NTONY's NOTE BOOK. By :diary

Beaumont. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. 6d. Post free,
2s. 9d.

SCOTSMAN says: — "Miss Beaumont has produced a volume of
charming little stories for children, full of genuine pathos and dealing
with subjects and incidents such as young readers can appreciate."

HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY FOR THE NON-chemical.
By A. J. Shelton, F.C.S. Crown 8^0.
Limp cloth, 28. Post free, 2s. 4d.

ADVICE TO A SISTER. Limp cloth, 2s.

THE DECLINE AND FALL of the BRITISH
EMPIRE. By Lang-Tung. In wrapper, 6d. Post
free.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

IN THE PRESS.

THE Juvenile LEAD. By Florence Marryat,

Author of *' My Sister the Actress," *' A Broken
Blossom," &c. 3 vols.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. By Annie Thomas,

Author of " Dennis Donne," &c. 3 vols.

MOLLIE DARLING. By Lady Constance

Howard, Author of " Sweetheart and Wife." 3 vols.

A NOBLE NAME. By the late Mrs. Buxton

and W. W. Penn, Authors of " Jennie of the Prince's"
and " Bondman's Holiday." 3 vols.

THE TOWER GARDENS. By Lizzie Alldridge,

Author of " By Love and Law," " The World She
Awoke In," &c. 3 vols.

OUT OF THE PALE. By Mrs. Eiloart,

Author of " My Lady Clare," &c. 3 vols.

JACK FORRESTER, THE HARROVIAN. A

Romance. By Laurence Brooke, Author of " Three
Fair Daughters," " The Queen of Two Worlds," &c.
3 vols.

ON DANGEROUS GROUND. By Miss Edith

Stewart Dreary. 3 vols.

IN THE HAVEN. By Miss C. G. Hamilton,

Author of " After a Dark Night the Sun." 3 vols.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

xm

THE PRIEST'S BLESSING,

OR,

*POOR PATRICK'S PILGRIMAGE FROM
THIS WORLD TO A BETTER.'

SOME Opinions OF THE PRESS.

Miss Jay's nouvelle, which has some strong and stirring
qualities, seems to show that in some parts at least of Ireland the
people are now just as much their own enemies in the face of all
attempts at improving their condition as they were in the days
when Miss Edgeworth wrote her fascinating story Efmui. Miss
Jay's story is, however, of a far darker cast than the one just
referred to. As to the prevalence of the state of mind, or no
mind, and its terrible results, which she depicts with an incisive
pen, there can, unhappily, be no doubt, and the author writes
with an air of knowledge and experience which makes it difficult
to cast doubt upon her explanation of things which are
suggestive enough in cut-and-dried newspaper reports, but of
which her treatment may impress some people whose attention
would otherwise be unmoved. It is not to be thought that Miss
Jay would have us believe that all Roman Catholic priests resemble
the infamous, yet genial and popular. Father Alloy of
her store' ; but there is too much reason to suppose that he is
not inaccurately drawn from a type which is not exceptional.
The grim and tragic tone of the little book is artfully relieved
wherever it is possible ; and we can say for ourselves that we
have read its three hundred pages with unfailing interest.' —
Saturday Review.

" The Priest's Blessing " is the title of an Irish story, in one
volume, from the pen of the accomplished young lady whose
-•'Queen of Connaught " and "Dark Colleen " have placed her
in the front rank of all the writers who have attempted to delineate
the contemporary' life of Ireland, Her new tale, published
by F. V. White k Co., of London, is dedicated to Mr
Forster in warmly eulogistic words, and the motive of the book
is intimately associated with the weary problem which that
statesman has been doing his best to solve. It exhibits, with
marvellous power, one of the chief sources of the Irish difficulty.
This is the unscrupulous character of the priesthood, and their
determination to retain the control of the people in their own
hands. The portraits of the two priests who figure in Miss Jay's
narrative are drawn with a vivid force which could not possibly
be surpassed ; and the same may be said of the pathetic sketch
of the hapless peasant, Patrick O'Connor, who is brought to

VOL. m. a

the gallows by their villainous machination. The incidents are
evolved with great dramatic skill and vigour ; and, as a revelation
of the actual condition of Ireland, it is worth a cartload of
the political pamphlets and speeches on that subject with which
we have been so liberally supplied of late.' — North British Mail.
'Miss Jay's new, short, and powerful story. Poor Patrick
O'Connor, whose pilgrimage from the cradle to the grave,
blessed at both ends by the priest, is a powerfully drawn character
that will survive when "study" and " purpose" are forgotten.
' — Academy.

The authoress of the " Queen of Connaught " has produced
a singular tale of Irish life, intended to illustrate the life of the
Irish peasant from the cradle to the grave. . . . The various
incidents in the career of the Irish peasant are told with much
pathos and power, and the volume will serve to give a good
idea of the state of the impoverished people, and the temptations
they are subjected to, through agitators on the one hand,
and poverty on the other.' — Era.

This is the secret history of a case of landlord-murder, in the
West of Ireland. In telling it, Miss Jay has, with finished art,
avoided every appearance of literary colouring, and has depended
for effect upon an almost excessive simplicity. We are
compelled to read it as uncritically as a private letter, and do
not conspicuously realise its full power and pathos until we can
look back upon it as a whole, and then every well-remembered
stroke tells. Not all Miss Jay's readers Mali agree with her,
that Irish troubles are due to no deeper cause than priestly influence,
or indeed that such influence is anywhere near the root
of the matter ; and she makes the usual mistake of supposing that
an Irish landlord is necessarily incapable of comprehending, at
least as well as a novelist, the natures of the people with whom he
has to deal. But, if this were so, landlords would learn much from
the life progress of Pat O'Connor, of Patrickstown — how, from
being a mere harmless victim of a large family and potato disease,
he came to die on the gallows, a martyr to a blind sense of religion
and honour. No word of conventional sentiment mars the effect
of this powerful study of the heart and mind of a savage of our own
time and nation, with his capacities for unconscious heroism
under circumstances which would seem to make anything in
such a shape impossible. We are not cheated into taking strong
and bitter stuff in the formalities of a love story. Plot and style
are strong and bitter enough — as much so as any story must be
that deals with the extreme conditions of Irish peasant life as
they are. Pat O'Connor himself represents a type which she
obviously and thoroughly understands, and which all who are
interested in the Ireland of to-day and tomorrow ought to
understand. The novel is certain to attract exceptional attention.'
— Graphic.

BY

Harriet JAY,

AUTHOR OF "the QUEEN OF COXyAUGHT," " TWo Men AND
A MAID," ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE c§: CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, Stand, W.C.

1883.
fall Rights reserved']

Crown Svo, cloth 3^'. dd. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready ;—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yo/m Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." 'john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember'— J^A;^ Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of " The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour. ' — Whitehall Review.

Phyllis. By Florence Marryat.

" Phyllida" is a novel of which the author may be justly proud'—
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of * Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON A>'D SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

CHAPTER I.

USHiV, but this is a bad way
we're in, yer honor," said
Shawn, as he wiped the rain
from his blinded eyes, and tried in vain
to penetrate the darkness which lay like a
cloud around us.

I shivered as he spoke, and silently
acknowledged the truth of his words.
We were in a bad way indeed.
For several hours that evening we had
lain damp and chilly on the banks of a

VOL. III. A

lonely lake, waiting for the wild geese ;
having secured several victims, we gathered
up our belongings, and prepared for a walk
over several miles of dreary england towards
home. But we had scarcely covered
a mile of the ground, and were in the most
desolate part of the mountain, when the
darkness, which for some time had been
gradually coming on, fell like a pall around
us ; a bitter wind swept lightly over the
moor, and rain began to fall. Still we
wandered on ; at length Shawn paused,
declared, with a tone of shame in his
voice, that he had lost his way, and
asked what was to be done.

What could be done ?

We were surrounded by black darkness,
fully seven miles from home. We had lost
our way, and had no means of regaining it.
It seemed to me that the only feasible
plan was to remain where we were till dawn.

We had just come to this despairing
decision, and were about to make the

most of our boggy bed, when there was
borne to us out of the darkness, on the
breath of the wind, the faint echo of a
human voice. Never before had a voice
sounded to me so pleasant. Darting forward,
I was about to hail the stranger,
when the more prudent Shawn held me back.

Don't spake, yer honor," said he ; " 'tis
that thief o' the world Mick Maloney, and
if he hears your voice he'll surely take us
for the peelers."

So we kept perfectly still, while the
unconscious stranger approached.

As he drew near we heard that he was
singing softly ; next we distinguished the
words of the song.

Send it gaily round,

Life would be no pleasure,
If we had not found

This enchanting treasure.
And, when tyrant death's

Arrow shall transfix ye,
Let your latest breaths

Be whisky, whisky, whisky**

'*Wid all the pleasure in the world,"
said Shawn, bringing the song to an end,
the singer to a standstill. " And now,
Mick Maloney," he continued, " thank the
good God above that we're not the peelers,
but only two poor creatures that's lost our
way."

What, Shawn ! " came in stentorian
tones from the darkness.

*' Yes, in troth, it's Shawn, and the young
rasher along wit him, and both just as
wet as can be. We're seeldn' a night's
lodging, Mick Maloney, for we can't get
home, and the bog's but a wet bed at the
best o' times, and no way fit for the likes
o' us."

Who Mick Maloney might be I had not
at that time the most remote idea. I only
felt that he came like an angel of goodness
that night, for, after a short whispered
conversation with Shawn, he agreed
to lead us to a haven of rest. So we
gathered up our traps again, with a much

lighter heart than we had laid them down,
and followed the footsteps of our guide.

How far we really went, I never could
discover, but at the time the distance
seemed to me interminable. The night
was so dark that I could not see one
foot before me, and I stepped recklessly
on, tumbling in and out of bogholes, while
the wind blew clumsily on my cheek, and
the rain fell, soaking my garments through.
At length our guide paused, and I saw that
we stood before the closed door of a mud
cabin. The hut looked black and desolate
as the scene surrounding it, and I thought
at first that it was quite deserted, but
on Mick Maloney applying his knuckles to
the door, and giving three peculiar taps
a faint whistle came through the keyhole ;
then, with the words, "all right," spoken
in Irish, the door Hew open, 1 was hurriedly
hustled in, and it closed again.

The transfer from black darkness to
bright liorht was so sudden that for a

o o

moment my eyes were blinded, and I
could see nothing, but I heard around
me a hissing of steam and a splashing
of water, which told me where I was.

Our oruide had led us to a still-house.

Yes : when at length I removed my
hand from my blinded eyes, I saw that
my supposition was correct. There, a
yard or two from my very feet, stood
two illicit stills in the height of distillation
; some half - dozen stalwart fellows
were working them, while a couple of
young girls, an old woman, and a man
were filling stone jars with potheen. The
sight of this labour was anything but
pleasant to me. 1 knew that if, by any
stroke of ill luck, the police should happen
to pass by that house that night, come
in when the work was proceeding, and
find me coolly looking on, I should be
summoned before the magistrate, and ordered
to pay a heavy fine. Yet what
was I to do ? Stay in the warmth and

shelter, or return to the cold, wet, desolate
bog ? I decided to adopt the former plan,
so having thrown off my dripping overcoat,
and taken a good di^ink of the whisky
which was so liberally bestowed upon me,
I lit my cigar, and taking a seat beside
the fire, looked leisurely at what was going
on. Shawn throws down a little straw for
the dogs, put my gun in a place of safety,
hung up the birds, and then went over
to the boys to give them a hand with
their work.

Fully an hour passed thus : — both the
stills were empty, and the last jar was
being corked, when we were suddenly
startled by a peculiar scraping and whining
at the door. Shawn flew to open it ;
as he did so, a dog crept in.

Patrick," cried one of the girls,
addressing the drenched animal, "is it
the peelers, dear ? "

The poor brute set up a yell as if in
answer, and seizing one of the stills with

his teeth, tried hard to pull it along the
Poor.

It's the peelers sure enough," said
Shawn, and I felt an electric thrill run
through me.

Immediately the scene became one of
wild confusion, and I found myself in the
midst of the melee, but before I had time
to think in what way I could be of service,
the whole of the work was done. The
stills were lifted bodily from the ground
and taken out of the house, and the
stone jars quickly followed. In less than
five minutes all was cleared away, the
dripping dog which had caused all the
commotion was in the corner making
overtures of friendship to my surly retrieve
; two of the boys were examining
my birds, the girls were washing the
potatoes for supper, and the rest of the
company were seated around the fire listening
attentively to Shawn's account of
our adventures that night.

Presently a loud knock came to the door.

Who's there ? " cried Mick Maloney.

Open the door," came from without ;
"make haste, ye spalpeen, ye. If ye dare
to remove one of the stills I see at work — "

The door flew open, and the strangers
rushed in. Four men dressed in plain
clothes, but looking as little like Irish
peasants, whom they were intended to
represent, as men could well do.

Good night, sergeant," said Mick
Maloney quietly, " if you've come all
the way from the barrack to-night to see
a still at work, I'm sorry for you ! "

The scrsceant made no answer, but he
looked keenly around.

The room in which he stood was the
only one which the hut contained. A large
kitchen, with a mud floor, black bare rafters
and loose stone walls, through the wide
crevices of which the wind crept. Over
a great turf fire, which burnt on the floor,
the pot of potatoes swung, supported by

a black iron chain which was fixed in the
rafters, while around the fire, sitting cross-legged
on the floor, was the family. They
moved closer together and made room for
the unwelcome intruders. The three policemen
sidled up to the fire and unbuttoned
their coats, revealing as thy did so the
revolvers which were fastened in their
belts, and the swords which hung from
their sides. The sergeant, dio had drawn
his revolver, still stood aloof.

*' Now, Mick Maloney," he said, " you've
been lying to me and deceiving me for
several years, and I don't mean to believe
you any more. Don't I know, without
your telling me, that you make enough
potheen here every year to supply the
whole of Connaught ? Yes, and I know,
as well as you do, that you were making
it here to-night."

*' Were we in troth?" said the young
fellow innocently ; ' ' then why didn't you
find us wit the stills ? "

That's exactly what I can t make out,"
confessed the puzzled sergeant. " When I
got the information that you were at
work to-night, I thought I'd nail ye,
for the night's so dark ye can t see a
hand before ye, and if I had caught ye
he continued, putting the revolver into
his belt again, " I'd have clapped every
mother's son of ye into gaol, and made
ye suffer for the runs you've given tome!"


The boys laughed ; the sergeant, judging
from the confident faces of one and all
that no stills were within reach that
night, stood for five minutes warming
himself by the fire, then with his
men he departed.

All that night I remained in the hut,
but when the first gleam of dawn apjDcared
I prepared to go. The fate of the stills
was a mystery to me ; I questioned Mick
Maloney, and after a little hesitation he
pointed to a strip of brown bog which

lay to the right of the dwelling, and
replied.

There they are, yer honor ! "

Where ? "

Sunk in the bog there, and the whisky
aloof wit them."

There ? — why the police might walk
over that spot at any moment and discover
all ! "

So they might, indeed, but then they
don't, and we've hid them there these six
years. And if they did find them they
couldn't punish us, for sure they're not in
any house, and the Lord knows who put
them there ! "

He walked over the bog, drew up one
of the stone jars, and presented it to me,
and as I shook hands all round and wished
the family '* good-bye," they all expressed
a regret that with last night's work the
distilling for that season was over — but
hoped, phase God, I might come next year,
and see a good drop made ! "

But with that year's work the Maloney
ceased their labour of illicit distilling.
A few months after my midnight adventure,
the faithful animal which had been
their sole protector from the police, was
found poisoned on the hills. Whether or
not the police had at length discovered the
use to which the dog was put, and so
determined to destroy it, no one could tell ;
at all events the Maloney deemed it a
fitting time to give up their dangerous
work ; — after they had committed the body
of their favourite to the earth, they sold
the stills and never again made a drop
of potheen !

Emma

OW, yer honor, just lie quiet
and aise ; keep the gun on
full - cock and all ready, but
never stir a limb till I give the curlew's
cry, and then look out, for the birds will
be just within shot of ye."

So spoke Shawn, as he laid the last
bunch of heather on my quivering body,
and having satisfied himself that I was
perfectly well concealed from human
sight, he prepared to creep off to the
spot where he had seen the wild geese
alight, in order to drive the unconscious
victims directly over my head. I nodded
as he gave his instructions, and ere he
crept away, promised implicitly to obey

his commands. But I felt anything but
comfortable in my novel position. My
bed was the bare bog-land, oozy and soft
with the soaking of the heavy winter
rains ; my covering the half - withered
heather which Shawn had uprooted from
the hillside. The prospect all around
me was black and desolate as the sky
which loomed above, but the bitter wind
came creeping over the hill, and froze
my face and hands. I lay patiently for
some time, the sportsman - like ardour in
my heart preventing the wind from utterly
freezing my limbs, but at length my
patience got exhausted, and I began to stir.
Suddenly I heard the faint whistle of the
curlew, — a minute after I saw a flock
of wild geese pass almost directly over
my head. I fired wildly, and missed !

Then I found that my garments were
completely soaked with bog-water, and
that my limbs had sunk several inches
deep in the oozy ground ; nay, more.

that they were only prevented from sinking
farther by some obstruction which
was so hard and cold that it made my
bones ache. My first are was to exhume
my half-buried limbs, my next to unearth
the substance which had prevented me
from sinking utterly. This latter proved
to be no easy matter, but with the help
of the spade which Shawn had brought
with him to prepare my boggy bed, I
at length succeeded in clearing away a
good deal of earth and discovering that
my life-preserver was a deal box, some
five feet long, stained almost black with
bog-water, and fastened down with half-a-dozen
rusty nails.

I had heard, during my childhood days,
of fortunate people being enriched by
the discovery of buried treasures, but, I
need hardly add, all such romantic ideas
had long since vanished from my mind ;
and yet, as I gazed at that peculiar-looking
box, I felt as if a cold spell had

passed over me, and a succession of the
wildest thoughts surged through my brain.
Exhume and open it I must, and the
wish became stronger within me when
Shawn, who soon returned from his goose-driving,
did his best to dissuade me from
such a proceeding.

*' Sure, 'tis no affair of ours, yer honor,"
said Shawn, looking at the same time so
profoundly uncomfortable as to cause my
curiosity to increase. "Maybe its a little
potheen that the boys have buried — "

But I cut him short, and insisted that
he should help to exhume and open the
box. Seeing I was determined, he at
length set to work, but he was so slow,
and evidently so unwilling, that at length
my patience got exhausted. I took the
spade from his hand, inserted it in the
crevice upon which Shawn had been working,
and with one powerful wrench forced
the lid. We both recoiled in horror — the
box contained a corpse ! After the first

VOL. III. B

shock of the discovery was over, I looked
again, and my dismay increased tenfold.

Why, Shawn," I exclaimed, *' if it
isn't—"

*eyes, in troth!" broke in Shawn, "sure
enough, it is," — and we both stared into
the box again.

In order to explain the strange circumstance
which enabled me to recognise this
corpse, I must chronicle events which took
place several weeks before I exhumed it.

On the fifteenth day of November, the
annual fair was held at Gulranny. The
anticipation of this day usually created a
good deal of excitement in the minds of
the peasants in and around Storport — for
it was always constituted a sort of gala
time ; but the announcement of the fair
of 18 — brought with it whisperings of
woe to many a home. The crops had been
bad that year, and the miserable half-starved
tenants had been unable to scrape

together enough money to pay the rent,
so the procter had summoned them to
attend the sessions of Gulranny, in order
that they might show cause why they
should not deliver up the whole of their
worldly goods. On the eventful day,
which was ushered in with hurricanes of
blinding sleet, I ordered Shawn to bring
out the horse and car, that we might
drive into Gulranny together. By the
time we started the hail had ceased to
fall, but still the wind blew bitterly, freezing
with its icy breath the little pools on
the wayside, and when we drove into
Gulranny I felt almost as if my blood
was frozen. It was midday by that time,
and, save for one or two decrepit old men
whom wee had passed on the road, we
were the last to arrive. What a gathering
there was ! The streets of the little

o

town were so crowded that it was almost
impossible to make one's way along. In
the market-place bevies of rosy - checked

servant girls stood waiting to be hired,
pigs grunted and squealed as the drovers
whipped them along, the shopkeepers
stood at their doors shrieking to the
passengers to buy ; Mr 'Neil's agent
sat in a cosy parlour of the inn, comfortably
enjoying his glass of wine, gazing
with a smile into the wild, woebegone
faces of the creatures whom he had summoned
thither, and determinedly shaking
his head at every heart-broken appeal.

Don't come to me," he said ; " I'm
done with ye, a lot of lazy spendthrifts
as ye are. Ye'll go before them to-day
as '11 "make ye pay."

I sat in a remote corner of the room
and quietly watched the wretched creatures
who crowded around the man, their
wild eyes, their famished faces, their
trembling bodies clad in the dirty rags
which were their sole protection from
cold, and as I glanced from them to the
frozen window-panes and the sleet which

fell, covering with a thin crystal sheet the
kerbstones of the street, my heart turned
sick.

Poor, miserable, half-starved wretches ! "
I thought, " most of you will have sore
hearts to-night, for you will lose your
little all ; God help you ! for there will
be nothing but starvation left."

Heartsick at the sight of so much sorrow,
which I was utterly powerless to relieve,
I arose and was about to leave the room
when my eye was suddenly arrested by
a figure, ragged, wild, and woebegone,
which stood close up by the window.
Five minutes before, I had seen this man
crouch like a stricken beast before the
agent, his skeletons hands outstretched,
his parched lips suing for mercy.

For the love of God, Toneyy Monaghan,
never be hard on a poor boy," he had
said ; "all my potatoes had the black
disease this year, and they rotted in the
ground. My pig took the sickness, and

died. I have two little children down
wit a fever, and if you take away my
cow I'll have no drop of milk to give
them, and they'll die."

This appeal, heart-breaking as it was,
had met with the usual repulse.

Don't bring yer lies to me. You'll
go before them as '11 make ye pay ! "

As the man crept back into the shadow,
I noticed that the piteous look of appeal
had left his face ; his features were
strangely convulsed, his wild eyes gleamed,
and his hand clenched and unclenched in
nervous dread.

That man means mischief," I said as
I passed out into the street.

At two o'clock the tenants' cases were
to be called on ; and as the hands of the
clock approached that hour I made my
way through the crowded streets in the
direction of the court. I noticed, to my
wonder, that the streets through which I
passed were almost deserted ; presently a

succession of moans and cries struck upon
my ear, then I saw that people were
running excitedly, and, following the direction
which they took, I at length found
myself on the outskirts of a great crowd
which was collected in the principal street
before the open door of the court. Seeing
Shawn amongst the throng, I questioned
him as to the cause of the excitement,
for I noticed that many of the people
were wringing; their hands, others moaned
feebly, while others glared around them
with wild eyes and then seemed to utter
sighs of relief. Instead of replying to
my question, Shawn took me by the
shoulders, and gently propelled me into
the middle of the throng. There I saw
the cause of the disturbance. Living; on
the kerbstone, his head supported in the
arms of a policeman, his face exposed to
the wondering gaze of hundreds of eyes,
was the agent, stone dead. His body was
surrounded by policemen, warders of the

court — nay, at the cry of murder, the very
judge upon the bench had stopped the
course of justice, and come forth.

Good God ! " I exclaimed, recoiling
upon Shawn ; " how did this happen ? "

"He was just walking' along the street,
yer honor," said Shawn quietly, 'when
he fell, and laid his head down and
died."

Murdered ? "

Oh, God forbid ! yer honor ; what for
should he be murdered at all, at all ? "

Nevertheless, I felt convinced that my
supposition was right ; nay more, I believed
that I could point out the very man who
had done this deed.

That a murder had actually been committed
could not be proved on the spot,
but the manner of the man's death was
so peculiar as to call for a coroner's
inquiry, and a post-mortem examination.
The body, therefore, was at once removed

to the inn, and several hours after its
removal the two principal doctors of the
town were on their way armed with the
implements necessary for their work. On
their arrival at the inn, a novel scene
awaited them. The people, having at
length solved the meaning of the awful
words, "post-mortem examination," had
risen up in arms, and declared that no
such desecration of the dead should be
allowed. Before Toneyy Monnaghan became
a land-agent, he had been one of themselves,
and though he had been a little
hard upon them of late, there wasn't a
man among them but would raise his voice
against having the poor boy's body cut up
"like a beast's." The consequence was — a
riot. The police were overpowered, the
doctors sent packing, the inn taken by
storm. For two nights the body lay instate,
being waked by its wild comrades.
At the end of that time, the authorities,
only too eager to bring matters to a peaceful

issue, allowed it to be quietly buried. As
the grave closed above it, popular excitement
seemed to die away.

But if the people were satisfied, the
authorities were not. Everybody believed
that a murder had been committed, and
that the subsequent riot was only an effort
to prevent the discovery of the murderer.
No sooner, therefore, was the unfortunate
man buried, than the doctors received an
order authorising them to exhume the body
and make their examination in secret. One
night, two nights after the funeral, they set
out on their mission with hopeful hearts.
Making straight for the graveyard, they
employed themselves in opening up the
grave. For several hours they worked with
pickaxe and spade ; at last they came
upon the coffin, raised it up, and opened
the limit
was empty !

At this piece of audacity on the part
of some persons unknown, everybody was

more amazed than ever, and again came the
conviction, stronger than before, that murder
had been done. But try as they would,
they could discover nothing. The whole
country was thrown into a tumult, and
popular excitement was at its height, when
I unwittingly solved the terrible secret by
finding the body in the bog.

Having sworn Shaken to secrecy, I
assisted him to re-inter the box, and forthwith
sent word of the discovery to the
magistrate. The box was at once removed,
the post-mortem examination concluded,
and the discovery made that the unfortunate
man had died of heart disease.
Again everybody was amazed, and this time
the wonder was mixed with shame. After
the examination was made, the coroner's
inquiry was hurried over, and once more,
in solemn pomp, and with all the rites
of the church, the agent was laid in his
grave. Amidst the solemn concourse which

attended this second funeral, I noticed the
wild wan face which had haunted me ever
since that day when I had seen it by the
frozen window of the inn — the face of the
very man whom in my own mind I had
accused of murder ! For a moment I hung
back ashamed ; then I boldly walked
forward and pressed a bank-note into the
wretched creature's hand. He looked from
it to me in dazed amazement, then the
sio-ht of one of his raised children seemed
to make him realise what the money would
do. He clutched it closer, and with one
last look down the open grave, crept away
towards his home.

By whose hand the corpse was conveyed
from the churchyard to the bog
was never discovered. It was generally
believed, however, that news of the intended
examination had been whispered
abroad, and that the agent was exhumed
and hidden solely with a view to preventing
his body being " cut up."

DIE passes quickly in Connaught,
or at least so it seemed to me ;
for never had I known summer
months roll so rapidly away. Yet they
were gone, and what was worse, the
autumn months had gone to join them,
and I, still lingering on in Storport, saw
that winter was slowly but most surely

comme on.

As the seasons changed, the aspect of
the village changed too. The mighty
Atlantic, which during the lazy summer
days had lain like a tawny lion, calm,
majestic, gazing with gentle eyes upon
the earth, now bestirred itself, lifted up

its mighty voice, and roared as if in answer
to the roaring of the wind. Days of tempest
came, during which time I found myself
pretty frequently in Oona's study, and
always by her side when we sat round the
fire at night, and told stories, or listened
to the wailing of the wind. Sometimes
when the wind was loudest and we felt
the Lodge swaying in its violent grasp,
I drew a bit nearer to my cousin and took
her hand, and she did not draw it away.
Nay, once or twice I fancied that the
slender fingers closed over mine, then
becoming suddenly conscious of what she
had done Oona would blush and laugh,
and tell us some story of folk lore which
had been told to her by one or other of
the village cauliaghs when she was spite a
little child.

It was during one of these evenings,
when the wind was shrieking round the
house and hailstones were rattling on the
pane, that Oona, gazing round upon her

sisters, reminded them of their suggestion
that each one should provide me with
entertainment for a day.

He has only had three days as yet,"
said Oona ; " Nora's, Biddy's, and mine."

And mine," interrupted Aileen. " I
didn't tell him a story, but then neither
did Biddy, but I certainly entertained him
for a day, for I took him over to Glenamoy,
gave him some of the best flies I ever tied
in my life, and put him in the way of
catching; three salmon. I think that outfit
to be counted ! "

So it ought. Alley, and so it shall," I
said ; ''I never enjoyed a day more in my
life."

Very well," said Oona, " if Jack is
satisfied we ought to be, but that only
makes four ; there's Kate and Amy still.
Kate, what do you mean to do ? "

But before Kate could reply. Amy who
as usual had been rolling on the hearth
with the dogs all round her, scrambled

to her knees, pushed back the clogs, and
exclaimed, —

I know what / should like to do. I
should like to tell a story ! Cousin Jack,
if I tell you a story to-night will you call
it my day ? "

I will ! " I said, and all the girls
laughed.

But Amy, grave as a judge, settled
herself upon the hearth and told us the
story of how Andy Beg became a Fairy.

She told it in very childish fashion,
which I have had to alter slightly to suit
the requirements of print.

I.

Did you ever get sight of it herself,
Cuileagh, when you were passing Ehuna
Banish on a Christmas night like this,
on your way to the chapel to hear the
midnight mass ? "

Get sight of it ! Troth, then, I never

did ; and 'tis aise seeing that same, for
sure, then, if I had got sight of it, 'tis
not here I'd been sitting now, but I'd belying
in my grave as dead as — as — as — "
and finding himself unable to discover a
simile, the speaker bent over the fire,
squeezed some burning ashes into his pipe-bowl,
and began puffing vigorously.

He was a short, thick-set man, with
little prepossessing in his appearance. His
face was, at first sight, hard and most
repelling ; and this, his neighbours said,
was the true index to his character.
Cuileagh Clanmorris was a most unpopular
man in Storport. Instead of mixing with
his fellows and showing his face at fairs
and weddings and wakes, he worked like
any beast of burden all the year ; and on
Sundays and feast days, and at Christmas
tide, when he had a few hours to spare,
instead of enjoying his leisure as a mortal
should, he merely stepped into his neighbour
Dunloe's, and smoked his pipe in the
VOL. III. c

ingle, and told weird stories and fairy-legends
to that child, which, as the population
would have it, was no human child,
but only a bit of a fairy itself."

And, in truth, there was something about
little Andy, or, as he was called in Irish,
Andy Beg, which was extremely fairy-like
and weird, a strange, old-fashioned wonder
and wisdom which had convinced the
peasantry, and some of the child's relatives
too, that he was no ordinary being. His
mother was the widow Dunloe, who had
lived all her life in Storport ; and who
since that night when Manus Dunloe had
lost his life off the Ehuna Banish, had
dwelt in the little cabin on the beach, with
only her father and Andy.

Andy was six years old, yet he had
none of a child's ways, and no desire for
childish companionship. The being for
whom he cared most was his grandfather,
an old man of ninety years, who habitually
sat in the ingle, with his grey head

bowed, and his bony hands clasped upon
his knees, in a state of mental torpor, from
which it seemed at times an earthquake
could not have roused him, but who, at
the slightest sound of Andy's voice, stirred
and lived, his dull, heavy, lustreless eyes
gleaming with a ray of human light.
From the very first these two had been
drawn together by a strange fascination.
Ever since the day when he first began
to walk with some steadiness across the
floor, Andy had taken his stand between
his grandfather's knees, had prattled to
him in that strange, old-fashioned way
of his ; had attended to him assiduously
in all his wants, until, as time went on,
the child's life seemed to get interwoven,
as it were, with that of the old man ;
and at length, to the wonder of all, it
was discovered that he, who during his
life had been singularly hard, callous, and
cruel, had got all his affections aroused by
this quaint little companion of his old age.

He was very old-fashioned, was Andy-beg
; he had a pleading, pinched look in
his face, and a strange light in his eyes,
and a quiet, childlike gentleness in his
voice, which aroused the darkest fears in
his mother's breast. He was not meant
for this world, she said, but he was a
little fairy, with a human voice, and
human eyes, and surely a human soul.
He had come to them, and had been a
blessing to them, but he was perhaps not
destined to stay.

Andy Beg was not a strong child.
Once or twice during his short life he
had been stricken down, and had lain at
death's door ; and at those times the old
man had awakened from his torpor, and
had sat beside the bed, with his dull
eyes fixed in agony, as if his life hung
upon the child's breath. But Andy had
recovered from these attacks, and had
taken his place again between his grandfather's
knees, his face a little more

pinched and worn, his eyes shining a
little more brightly, his voice chiming
with a still more pathetic ring. The child's
face had never looked so old and strange
as it did on that Christmas night, when,
standing between his grandfather's knees,
with his small white fingers resting upon
the bony hands of the old man, and his
cheek pressed against his sleeve, he had
fixed those luminous eyes of his upon
the grim countenance of Cuileagh Clan-morris,
and had asked him to tell him of
the fairy maidens who tended their flocks
on Christmas night on the Isle na Cream
that spot of green which was supposed
to be visible every year an hour before
midnight mass.

Cuileagh Clanmorris puffed hard at his
pipe, and between each puff he gazed
more fixedly at the child, and as he did
so the hard expression of his face grew
tender, and the heavy clouds of smoke
more dense. A shade of disappointment

stole over Andy's face as he listened to
the grim man's speech, and the little
white hand began beating upon the bony
fingers of his grandfather.

Sure I thought you had seen it,
Cuileagh ! "

Not I, in troth, but 'tis often I heard
tell of it."

For a moment the child stood with his
eyes fixed meditatively upon the glowing
turf sods ; then suddenly he turned round,
gently opened the old man's coat, and dived
his small hand deep into a pocket in the
inside. This pocket was the child's special
property ; it was solely appropriated to his
use ; no hands but his ever slipped into it
and brought to light the strange medley
of things with which it was filled. Andy
knew exactly what was there. He could
count on his fingers the number of stones
he had, which served him as marbles ;
he knew the exact length of the string
which wound his top, and the top, too,

was there — the one which Cuileagh Clan-morris
had brought him that time he went
to Gulranny fair. They were safe there,
Andy knew ; no one but himself would dare
to rifle the old man's coat-pockets ; and
the old man himself, — why he was merely
a peg on which the coat hung, although,
if occasion required, he guarded Andy's
property with jealous ferocity.

So on this occasion the child was pretty
sure of finding the treasure he sought. His
hand dived to the bottom, then it emerged,
holding tightly a piece of white loaf-bread.

Sure, I will give you this, if you will
tell what you know to me and grandfather."
And he held forth the bread as an inducement.
Among the peasantry of Torpor,
white bread was a luxury which was
seldom seen, and seldom or never eaten ; soon
this occasion, Andy attached to it as
much importance as a southern child would
do to an apple, a bonbon, or any other
delicacy. Cuileagh Clanmorris smiled, drew

his pipe from his mouth, knocked out the
ashes upon the hearth-stone, leaned his
elbows upon his knees, and looked into
Andy's face.

Ate yer bread, Andy ergo, sure I'll tell
ye what I know without the likes of that ! "

Andy drew back softly with a brighter
face, and began munching the bread, and
rubbed his cheek against the old man's
sleeve, and patted his hand, and added,
softly, —

And you will tell grandfather, too ? "
while the old man, who had been aroused
by the sound of the child's voice, murmured
quietly, in a mumbling, half sleepy tone, —

Ay, ay," and dozed off again.

It was a Christmas night.

Outside on the hills the snow gleamed,
and when the voices were still the room
was filled with a soft low music floating
up from the sea, which washed upon the
shingle scarce a hundred yards from the
cabin-door. Here and there on the hills

dark figures flitted along, leaving deep
tracks behind them in the snow as they
passed on towards the chapel to hear
Father John say midnight mass. The
wind which blew softly scattered the snow
and ruffled the surface of the sea.

Andy Beg was fortunate so far as he was
spared the misery attendant upon wintry
weather and cheerless Christmas nights. A
bright firelight played upon him and warmed
him, and illumined his pale pinched little
face as he stood between his grandfather's
knees with his eyes fixed upon Cuileagh,
waiting for the tale.

'Tis often I heard tell of it," said
Cuileagh, " but whether 'tis true or not,
none but the Holy Virgin herself can tell.
They're saying' it rises up from the say
there just before midnight mass. 'Tis a
lovely island, they tell, with trees and
grass and flowers and streams, and in everyone
0' them flowers there's a fairy, and in
every one 0' them streams there's a score

o' them, and under the trees there's a herd
o' cattle grazing, and a fairy colleen watching
them, and singing the while, and that
herd o' cattle," continued Cuileagh, lowering
his voice to an awful whisper, " is a herd
of mortal men."

Well, well ! " said Andy, fixing his eyes
in astonishment ; " and how did they come
there at all, at all ? "

The Lord knows ! " returned Cuileagh
solemnly ; " but 'tis said they were passing
along the say shore on a Christmas night,
when they seen the island itself, and the
fairies dancing and capering about, and they
laughed and clapped their hands, and for
this they were made fairies, and on Christmas
night they were turned to a herd o' cattle
as a punishment, and since then no mortal
man has ever looked on it, and if he does, 'tis
a sure sign that 'tis dead he'll be before the
year is out, and the fairies will take his soul,
and tho' 'tis a grand place, sure 'tis only fit for
the likes o' them, but not for Christian men."

For a few moments Andy stood silent,
looking into the fire ; then he turned his
little pale face, with the fire's red glow upon
it, and gazed into Cuileagh's dark eyes.

'' Will I go there, Cuileagh ? " he asked ;
and added softly, " and will grandfather go
too?"

The Lord forbid ! " said Cuileagh as he
reverently crossed his breast. "Sure you
wouldn't wish to go to the fairies, Andy Beg ?
and as to your grandfather there, why the
Blessed Virgin herself will take him when
'tis time ! "

Will she ? " said Andy, opening his eyes.
Then maybe she will take me too.
Grandfather wouldn't go alone, would you,
granny ? "

He looked wistfully into the old man's
face ; he found no gleam of light there, but
he saw the grey head shake slowly.

Andy felt ever so little disappointed that
night. He would not leave his grandfather,
not for worlds, if the old man went to the

Virgin, why of necessity, Andy must go too,
but as he lay down to rest, he could not
help thinking that he would much rather be
going to the Fairy Island, to hear the fairies
singing, and to watch the shining sea.

11.

All the world seemed white, the mountains
were white, covered deep in snow,
and the streams and tarns were frozen to
crystal ice ; and before all stretched the
sea like a glittering glassy mirror sparkling
in the light. As Andy stood knee-deep in the
snow and looked around him, his eyes got
dazzled with so much brightness. He did
not know how he got there ; he did not
know why he had come ; he did not know
where he was even ; he only knew that he
stood alone in the snow, away from his
grandfather for the first time in his life.

The little fellow folded his arms to keep
himself warm, and looked around again.

Behind him the hills stretched in loner
perspective ; then they got mingled up
confusedly, and then they turned into old
men's faces, and gazed at him through
hoary hair. Andy felt a little frightened, and
looked at the sea. It still lay placid, and
mirrored on its surface were innumerable
stars reflected from the heavens above.
Not a breath stirred ; but as Andy stood
looking he suddenly became aware that the
air was filled with a soft, low, musical
sound, like the humming of a thousand bees.
Andy stood gazing and listening enraptured,
and then he found that his eyes were not
resting upon the water at all, but upon a
spot, a lovely green spot, set out yonder in
the shining; water. He looked again. It
was an island, covered with long grass,
and taU waving ferns and bright silvern
flowers, the scent of which was diffused into
the sea breeze and wafted into his face ; and
he saw figures, bright little fairy figures,
moving about amidst these green glades,

and their faces, oh ! so quaint and old,
just like his own, were turned towards him,
and their eyes looked into his.

The whole island was flooded with a
bright light, which streamed down upon
the grass and the flowers and the little fairy-figures
which moved about them. Then
Andy's eyes wandered on, and he saw a herd
of cattle feeding beneath the trees, and he
knew this must be the herd of which
Cuileagh spoke, for there, quite near them,
sat the figure of a lovely colleen singing
softly, with her eyes downcast. Then
Andy began to think how much he would
like to go there, into that cool and lovely
place, and even as he thought so the
colleen rose, and turned towards him, and
beckoned with her white hand. Andy
stretched his hands out too, when suddenly
he remembered that he was there
alone, so he drew back again, and cried, —

I will come ! but I must bring grandfather
! "

He turned, and at that moment a great
clang struck on his ear, a heavy, sonorous
sound, like the ringing of bells, in the air
flashes of light darted, and a cry was heard
like a human voice. Then Andy felt
frightened again, and looked behind him,
and he saw the island glittering now like a
ball of fire ; and the tree tops waved, and
the fairies danced ; the cattle raised their
heads, and lowed softly in weary human
voices, and as they did so their heads turned
to human heads, and their eyes looked
straight into Andy's, while slowly the island
split in two and sank softly beneath the
water.

Andy opened his eyes, and found he was
lying in his bed, with the full cold light
of a Christmas morning streaming in his
face ; the chapel bells were ringing for early
mass. He looked around, but he was alone.
He never would sleep with his grandfather ;
the old man looked so hideous and skeletons
in his night gear, his sunken cheeks.

and hollow eyes were made so ghastly by a
white nightcap, that, much as Andy loved
him, he never could trust himself to gaze
upon him in this condition ; so, instead of
running to his grandfather's bedside, and
telling him of his dream, he lay quite
still and tried to dream it all over
again. But when at length he was up
and again standing between his grandfather's
knees he looked questioningly into
his face.

*' Grandfather," he said, ** is it to the
Fairy Island you would wish to go, or to
the Blessed Virgin herself ? "

The old man looked at him for a time
bewildered, then he said slowly, — ;

Sure all good Christians go to the
Virgin, and why wouldn't I go intirely ? "

Because," said Andy softly, and his
face grew more old-fashioned as he spoke,
because, grandfather, 'tis to the Fairy
Island I am going, and I want you to
come too 1 "

III.

From that day, Andy began to change.
His face grew more pinched and white,
his eyes more luminous, and his manner
more old-fashioned and strange. He still
stood between his grandfather's knees ashe
used to do, and attended to the old
man's wants, but his voice was sometimes
a little peevish now, and he would not
speak much to those who were about him.
He seemed to become so discontented at
times that his mother looked at him, wondering
what could be the matter with the
child. Andy had always been sickly and
white, but he had never been peevish
before, he had ever taken what was
given to him with a good grace. Now
he turned pettishly from his food.

Mother," he said one day, '' why is it
that I eat stir about ? "

Sure, you know we have nothing
VOL. III. D

else in the house to give you, Andy,
eroo',' his mother replied.

Sure, then, I know that same," said
Andy, " but if 'twas in the Fairy Island
I was, they would give me white bread."

His mother crossed herself.

Never name them, Andy lawn. You
know you are a Christian child ! "

But Andy replied, —

Maybe I shall be a fairy some day
for all that ! "

There was something very wrong with
the boy, but what that something was none
could determine. His mother looked at him
again and again with an anxious, scrutinizing
gaze, but she could discover nothing.
Cuileagh Clanmorris came night after night,
and smoked his pipe in the ingle, and
looked into Andy's face with those keen
penetrating eyes of his, and as he did
so his thoughts, almost in spite of himself,
travelled back to that Christmas, only a
month gone by, when he had told the

child the fairy legend, and when Andy
himself had slept and seen fairy-land.

Cuileagh Clanmorris was superstitious, as
were most of the peasantry of Storport,
and, as he thought over these things, he
shuddered. For this hard-workings, coarse-natured
man had come to love the quaint
little old-fashioned child. Nio^ht after night
now he brought with him lumps of white
bread and gave them to Andy, and as
the child stood between his grandfather's
knees and munched at the bread,
Cuileagh tried to tell him other stories
to divert his mind. But Andy took no
interest in any but one thing, his
thoughts constantly reverted to the old
theme.

I wonder," he said, one night as he
looked into Cuileagrh's face, " I wonder if
fairies always eat white bread ? "

Maybe," answered Cuileagh ; " they're
dainty people, they're saying', and fond o'
state things."

OF wxxms

Then, surely," continued the child,
they would give me bread too ? "

If ye were a fairy."

And grandfather ? "

Ay, ay," murmured the old man, and
he nodded his head, and looked at the child
with a vacant gaze ; while Cuileagh murmured
to himself, "Maybe 'tis a fairy
that he is after all."

More and more pathetic grew that little
pinched face of Andy's ; yet the paler his
cheeks became, the more peevish he seemed
to grow. There was something very wrong,
indeed, for once or twice Andy spoke even
to his grandfather in a querulous tone.
The old man was dimly conscious of the
change, though he was yet too dull to
perceive exactly what was amiss. He
looked into the child's face with a pained,
questioning glance, whereon Andy grew
gentle again as ever, and the tears slowly
gathered in his eyes.

The winter passed thus, and as each

month rolled away, and the snow was
melted from the ground, and the sun
shone upon the hills, Andy's face grew
whiter and whiter ; and when summer
came he lay in a little cot by the kitchen
fire, close to his grandfather's side. He
lay there and thought and thought as he
looked into the fire, or listened to the
monotonous washing; of the sea. His
peevishness seemed partly gone now, and
he grew quiet, and gentle, and kind as
his custom was. Oh, yes, he was quite
like his old self, though he looked so
pinched and old, and his little white
hands were as thin and transparent as his
grandfather's.

Lifeless as the old man generally appeared,
he now grew dimly conscious of
what was happening, and his dull, heavy,
lustreless eyes brightened into something
like life as he watched Andy's face. He
seemed to feel that a chilly hand was
drawing the child away, and he began to

half realise what the loss would be to
him.

Andy could not understand all this, he
was too young. He had been so long
with his grandfather that he did not
dream of parting ; they seemed to breathe
together. His grandfather would never
leave him, he thought, and as to himself,
why, if he became a fairy, grandfather
must become a fairy too ; and as he lay
in his cot day after day, with the summer
sunshine streaming full upon him, he
thought and wondered over all these
things.

Cuileagh," he said, one day when
Ouileagh had strolled in to sit beside him,
are they all little people that live in the
Fairy Island."

Yes, sure," said Cuileagh gruffly.

"Then must everybody get small before
they go ? "

Maybe ; but what for do ye ask that,
Andy lawn f "

Because I was wondering: how grandfather
will get there. He is so big, you
know."

Sure 'tis not there he will go at all —
the Holy Virgin forbid ! never spake of it
again, Andy stores''

And Andy never did speak of it again,
but he lay in his cot and grew weaker and
weaker, until at last he seemed to fade
away, and his spirit broke loose, and went
to the Fairy Land.

They laid him out in his Sunday's best,
and the neighbours flocked in to look upon
the small face and sunken cheeks. Grandfather
sat beside the bed, holding in his
bony fingers the child's clay-cold hand, and
gazing upon him in stupefied despair. Ashe
sat there, only faintly feeling his loss, as
yet too senile to understand that Andy had
gone from him for ever, he saw the people
come and go like waves of a living sea, and
as each person came up to gaze upon the
pale, pinched, pleading face of the child,

he heard the same words ringing in his
ears, " Sure, I always knew he was a fairy,
and so he's gone to the fairies at last ! "

IV.

The house was very dull when Andy was
taken away. Though he had ever been a
quiet child, his very presence seemed to
bring light and life with it. But now the
merest footfall echoed strangely through the
room, and the roaring of the sea was ever
heard, and the chilly whistling of the wind.
For the summer which had taken Andy
away had faded away too, and another
Christmas was drawing nigh. They had all
missed Andy, and they had all said so —
but one — his grandfather.

The old man lived still.

He had made no mention of the child.
With tearless eyes he had watched them
take him away, and then he had resumed
his old seat in the ingle. There he sat, day

after day, like a heavy lifeless log ; he never
opened his eyes to speak ; he never raised
his head to look around ; and he never
asked for Andy ; but his bony hands were
clasped ujDon his knees, and his knees were
always apart, as if Andy stood between
them. He never smoked now, because
there was no Andy to light his pipe ; he
seldom took food, because the child was not
there to give and share it ; he never spoke
of Andy, and they thought he had forgotten
him entirely. But one day, as he sat there
apparently lifeless, he suddenly raised his
hand, and put it into the inside pocket of
his coat, .Andy's pocket, and drew forth the
treasures Andy had left — a small piece of
white bread, dried now hard as any stone,
some pieces of string, and coloured stones
and shells. These he held in his hand, and
gazed at them with a heavy, stupefied stare,
then his fingers closed over them again,
and they were put back into Andy's pocket
to wait for Andy's coming.

The old man often repeated this, but the
treasures were saved from the touch of any
other human hand.

Christmas night swept round again, and
the peasantry of Storport hurried over the
snow-clad hills to hear the midnight mass.
In the widow Dunloe's cabin there was no
rejoicing ; the sea still washed on the shore
with that dreary sound which had called
Andy away. The widow Dunloe sat silent,
thinking of the Christmas night, twelvemonths
before, when Andy had stood between
his grandfather's knees, and listened
to the fairy tale. Cuileagh Clanmorris was
near the fire, smoking hard, but saying no
word, and grandfather sat in his usual way
with bowed head and closed eyes. The old
man was not thinking of Andy, he was now
almost too senile to think at all ; but he
had closed his eyes and fallen into a doze.
As he sat thus, something startled him.
He opened his eyes, and he saw standing
between his knees, invisible to all eyes save

bis own, a little bright figure patting his
hand, just like Andy used to do. As the
old man looked the figure turned, and a
little face was raised ■ up to his. It was
Andy's face, grown whiter. The old man
looked again — sure enough it was Andy !
There he stood, just as he had stood a year
ago, and he looked almost the same. He
stood for a moment between his grandfather's
knees, with his eyes fixed upon the
fire, then, still without speaking a word, he
turned gently, pulled open his grandfather's
coat, and put his hand into the pocket, and
drew forth that hard dried piece of white
bread and held it in his hand, then with
the other he seized the old man's coat.

Come along, grandfather, come along,"
he said, in his old pathetic tones.

The old man half rose from his seat, and
looked around wildly with glazed, heavy eyes.

"Ay, ay," he murmured, then he sank
down in his seat again, his eyes closed,
and his head drooped upon his breast.

When the Christmas bells rang outwith
a heavy clang for midnight, they
found Grandfather sitting: in his chair
quite dead. His head had fallen forward,
his hands hung beside him, and on the
floor at his feet lay the crust of bread
which Andy had left. Perhaps his spirit
had gone from the earth to join Andy
on the Fairy Island in the sea.

As Amy finished, still kneeling on the
hearth, with her little hands clasped upon
my knee, all the girls, in a perfect rapture
of delight, kissed her ; her father
cried, " Well done, little woman," and I,
noticing that her eyes were heavy, lifted
her in my arms and carried her up to
bed, a luxury which she enjoyed hugely.
She clasped her arms about my neck,
and kissed me, for as soon as we got
out of Kate's hearing I promised to send
her a perfect little angel of a dog when
I got back to town.

Half-a-dozen days of wild winter
weather, then the tempest
lulled, the winds hushed themselves,
the hail and rain ceased to fall ;
and I, accompanied as usual by Shawn,
prepared to emerge from the cosy warmth
of the Lodge in search of sport.

True winter weather, sir," said Father
John, who had looked in for a minute
or so in passing ; and, indeed true winter
weather it seemed, for the priest's fingers
were blue, and his round handsome face
had also a bluish tinge ; it quickly disappeared,
however, before a glass or two
of Jamieson.

By the way, Mister Kenmare," said
the jovial ecclesiastic as he rose to go,
I'm sadly afraid, sir, that that man of
yours, Conolly Magrath, will get himself
into trouble ; 'tis but three nights ago
since he was nearly surprised heading a
Eibbon meeting which was held at the
house of Mrs Timlin ; and only last night,
I'm told, the police entered his cabin
and found a gun which was loaded, and
quietly hidden away. At the time of
the seizure the man was heavy with
the drink — a sore curse to the country,
sir," he added in an aside to me, — *' and he
set upon the peelers ; but they were one
too many for him, since the upshot of
it was that they seized the gun, and
paid Mr Conolly for his resistance. This
morning at daybreak I received a call
to come and give him absolution — I'm
on my way to him now."

From the leisurely manner in which
the priest had thought fit to obey the

summon, I imagined that Mr Conolly
could not he at death's door ; but I,
feeling interested, offered to accompany
the priest — my uncle, who looked very
grave over the matter, volunteered to
go too ; so we three set off together. 1
shouldered my gun, and ordered Shawn
to follow, at some slight interval of time,
with the dogs.

We found Conolly looking rather the
worse for the adventure, but by no
means moribund ; he had received a few
cuts about the head and face, and had
lost a considerable deal of blood. He
lay stretched upon the outside of his
bed ; and my uncle frowned as he saw
that he was being attended to by the
republican-minded ]airs Timlin. I was
glad to find matters no worse, for I had
grown to take considerable interest in
Conolly. When Shawn appeared with
the dogs, I followed him with a contented
mind.

What a day it was ! The wind was
certainly lulled to rest, but the fierce
rollers of the Atlantic still dashed wildly in
upon the sand and around the jagged cliffs,
which stood like gaunt spectres, towering up
amidst a chilly shower of foam. But the
greensward above was sparkling with the
radiance of a thousand gems ; the air was
crisp and sharp, and the frozen ground
crackled and glistened beneath my feet. The
estuaries were perfectly alive with birds ;
wild duck and widgeon were paddling
leisurely about ; the golden plover were
running and pecking on the sand, wild geese
were lighting on the promontory beyond,
and countless sea-gulls were hovering in
the clear frosty air. The long range of hills
stretched in one jet black line along the
clear horizon ; and the tiny thatched
hamlets, which were dotted here and
there on the hillsides, like sea birds
crouching for shelter amidst thick
clumps of purple heather, where thrown

out and glorified by the clear frosty background.


I had come out intending to have a day
on the low-lying marshes, among the snipe ;
and I knew that my cartridge belt was
crammed with cartridges loaded with
number seven ; but the sight of all these
birds tempted me, and I suggested that, even
with number seven, we should make a trial
at the ducks.

But Shawn, wiser than I, shook his head.

'T would be but wasting good powder
and shot, yer honor," said he. " Sure at the
present time they're as wild as wild can be,
and wouldn't let ye come widen five hundred
yards o' them. After a little shell o' quiet
weather they'll be worth a trial, but not today.
Sure your honor would do far better
to keep to the snipe."

So to the snipe I accordingly kept, beating
the low-lying marshes with a couple of my
uncle's best setters ; and I was rewarded for
my pains ; the frost had drawn them in by

VOL. III. E

dozens, and I managed to make a considerable
bag.

We had still another bit of land to beat —
and were about to make our way towards
it ; when we were arrested by three shrill
whistles which reached us from the road.
1 turned at once, and saw the figures of a
man and a woman standing together on the
road a few hundred yards away ; the man
was waving his hat, the woman was standing
on the roadside hard by waving her
handkerchief.

"That last marsh will keep," I said, turning
to Shawn. " I've had enough for to-day,
whistle up the dogs and follow me to the
road ; we'll walk home that way with Miss
Oona."

For I had recognised Oona at the first
glance ; the man I could not identify, but
when I got to the road I saw it was young
Bingley of Gulranny. Both of them had
changed with the changing weather. I saw
Oona for the first time wrapped up in heavy

furs, and very pretty indeed she looked in
them ; while young Bingley, having discarded
the kilt, had his legs completely
covered by a pair of quaintly cut knee-breeches.


Jack," said Oona, after I had shaken
hands with Charlie, " we've disturbed you
at your sport."

I hastened to assure her that this was not
the case ; that I had quite finished and
was on my way to the Lodge ; and I fancied
that Oona looked particularly pleased with
the information.

In that case," she continued, " you will
not mind walking home by the road with
me, will you ? Mr Murray is at the Lodge ;
he and Charlie are going to stay with us
till the morning. You'll not be long
making your call, will you ? " she said, turning
to Bingley ; " we shall walk very slowly
80 that you can overtake us."

No, I shan't be long," returned he ;
'* but I think — in fact I know, I can't

stop at the Lodge to-night ; I must get
home."

He stammered, turned red, and looked
very uncomfortable as he spoke, and it
dawned upon me that there was something
wrong. Bingley looked positively wretched,
and there was decidedly a false ring about
Oona's careless laugh. I noticed, too, that
she, usually the most hospitable of girls,
made no attempt to urge him to remain ;
she seemed somewhat relieved, too, when at
last she found herself free of his company
and walking along by my side.

Well, Oona," I said, when we were alone,
'' what brought over Murray and Charlie
to-day?"

"They heard that Conolly was killed,
and they rode over to hear about it."

'* And they are going to stop all night ? "

They were ; but I don't know now.
You heard Charlie say he must get home ! "

He seems to have changed his mind
very suddenly."

"" Yes — did you have good sport to-day '\ "

'capital. How came you to be on tlif
road with Bingley ? "

I was walking with him. He had a call
to make on one of his mother s fishermen,
who lives in one of those huts yonder."

And you volunteered to walk with him?"

No, he asked me, and I thought 1
should enjoy the walk."

And did you ? "

Why, of course I did ; don't I always
enjoy walking, Jack ? "

I am not talking of always, but of now.
Did you enjoy your walk with Bingley.
Oona ? "

What a question ! " said Oona, laughing ;
I suppose I should have enjoyed it very
much if I hadn't crop tired. Then I caught
sight of you beating the marshes, and 1
asked Charlie to whistle you up, which he
did. Any more questions ? "

Yes, one more. Tell me, Oona," and
I bent down to look in her face, " what

did Bingley say to you during your walk
to-day?"

What Oona would have replied, I don't
know, for at that moment our conversation
was rudely interrupted by a wild voice
which spoke rapidly and clearly in the
Irish tongue. We both started ; looked
up, and saw at once the cause of the disturbance.
I suppose we had loitered, for
Shawn with the dogs had managed to get
well ahead of us ; he now stood in the
road, facing the person, the sound of
whose voice had so rudely disturbed our
tete-astute.

That person was a woman whom I now
recognised as having seen once or twice
before during my solitary rambles on the
bog ; a woman who had succeeded on more
than one occasion in arousing my curiosity,
but about whom I had always forgotten
to question my cousins.

She was certainly a lady : her face,
though pinched and worn - looking, and

white as that of a corpse, bore the unmistakable
stamp of high breeding. Her
figure was angular, and clad as usual
in black, while her eyes glared like
two wild lights from their cavernous
sockets. She seemed to be quite seventy
years of age. On her left shoulder was
the only bit of colour to be found upon
her, and that looked like a random splash
of blood ; on nearer inspection one discovered
it to be a bit of crimson cloth,
ragged and torn, which had been careful
stitched upon her dress. She was evidently
very much excited, for, as far as I could
make out, she seemed to be pouring upon
Shawn a perfect hurricane of abuse, and
once or twice I fancied I saw her raise her
right hand as if to strike him. To my
amazement Shawn took all this without
a word ; he hung his head, shuffled his
feet, flicked the dog whip which he held
in his hand, but said nothing. I was about
to hurry forward and ask an explanation

of the whole affair, when I felt a detaining
hand laid upon my arm, and looking round
I saw Oona, white as a ghost, and trembling
in every limb. She had understood every
word of the wild Irish harangue.

Don't go forward, Jack," she pleaded
earnestly. " It's only Mrs Gregory."

Only Mrs Gregory ! "

*eyes. She is aunt to Mr Neil,
the landlord here. She is a little violent
at times, but after all it's no wonder, poor
thing ! "

But what have I done to her, Oona ? "

Nothing, and she is saying nothing
to you, but it seems that the dogs have
been scampering through her potato fields
and breaking down the lines — Now,
don't go forward, Jack ! — you might be induced
to answer her roughly, and I wouldn't
have that for the world."

I looked at Oona and saw at once that
she was terribly in earnest ; her cheeks
were pale ; her eyes full of tears. At that

moment Mrs Gregory, having said her say,
passed on. Shawn, now holding the offending
dogs on a leash, followed her ; next
came Oona and myself.

Both my interest and curiosity were
aroused by this time, and I would fain have
learned more of this extraordinary woman,
but the sound of her voice had thrown
Oona into such a state of agitation, that I
thought it better to turn the conversation
to lighter themes ; silently determining
however to elicit the whole story from
Shawn, when next we should find ourselves
together.

When we reached the Lodge a fresh surprise
awaited us. Eight before the hall-door
was young Bingley on horseback
saying " Good-bye " all round. He looked
rather shamefaced at seeing us, and confessed
that he had avoided us by taking
a short cut across the hills. My former
suspicions were certainties now. I knew
he had asked Oona to be his wife, and

the knowledge of why she had refused
him gave me a better appetite for dinner.

There was a jolly party at the Lodge
that night. Though Bingley had departed,
Murray remained, and from the way he
looked at Aileen it was not difficult to
guess the reason. Father John and the
doctor were there ; both well on in their
cups, and ready with story and song ;
while in the kitchen sat Conolly, very
much disfigured, but looking happy through
it all, since he had heard that very afternoon
that Mr O'Neil, on being told of
the seizure of the gun, had been taken
with violent trembling, and had sent word
to the barracks that he must be attended
by a stronger guard of police.

Sure he's an omadhaun, yer honor,"
said Conolly contemptuously, as he told me
the story ; " he's no better than a woman,
and not half so good as some. And 'tis
him, and such as him, as own the broad
acres of Ireland."

I may add, in passing, that it is as bad
for an Irish landlord to be a coward asa
tyrant. They may respect a tant,
even while they hate him — but they will
never respect a coward.

The evening passed away merrily
enough, but just as it was drawing to a
close, a message came to the Lodge for
Kathleen. A little child belondno; to one
of the crofters had been taken ill, and
she was begged " for the love of God "
come. The child's father brought the
message : he was waiting in the kitchen
for the answer, Mary said. Kathleen put
on her bonnet and cloak to walk back
with him, but I expressed my determination
to see her safely there and home
again ; so while she was getting ready, I
went to the kitchen to tell the man he
might go.

I said what I had to say, had got half
way back to the dining-room, when I
paused, turned and looked at the man

again. He was about the handsomest man
I had seen since I came to Storport, but
it was not this fact which commanded
my attention so much as the strange,
unaccountable expression on his face.
He was not more than thirty years of
age ; yet his hair was as grey as my
uncle's, who had passed his sixtieth
year, while his bronzed face was marked
with premature lines. When I mentioned
this fact to Kathleen, she sighed,
and said, " No wonder, poor fellow ! "
but she said no more.

We set out at once, and both enjoyed
our walk. The night was clear — the
air frosty : already the roads were
hardening, while above our heads the
moon, full and clear, sailed in a cloudless
sky.

We had walked quickly ; but the man
had reached home first, for when
we entered the cabin he was there.
I was not surprised to see Kath-

I /

been give him a hearty hand-shake, but
I confess I was startled to see her walk
up to a woman who sat on a bench by
the fire with her apron over her head —
take her in her arms, and kiss her. This
action on the part of my cousin made me
look at the woman again. The apron
by this time was removed, and I saw a
face — white, wild, and sorrow-stricken —
yet strangely beautiful. Though she was
evidently only a peasant — and wore the
homeliest of peasant dresses — her little
feet were encased in thick leather boots,
and her hands were delicately and prettily
formed. From her appearance I thought
she might be a lady masquerading in a
peasant's dress. She clung about my
cousin's neck, and sobbed, —

Oh, Miss Kathleen, I can't bear it.
Sure I can't keep in Storport with Mrs
Gregory ! "

Mrs Gregory again ! I started in astonishment
as this pretty, trembling creature

pronounced the name of my mysterious
old lady of the hills. " What influence
can Mrs Gregory have here ? " I asked
myself, and having by this time
grown thoroughly interested, I waited
to hear more ; I was therefore rather sorry
when I saw the man come forward and
lay his hands gently upon the girl's
shoulder.

Rosie, machine" he said, " sure 'tis
not like you to go on like this. Come,
get up, mavourneen ; Miss Kathleen is
going' to look at little May ; and here is
the young master too, that's come with
Miss Kathleen from the Lodge."

This last piece of news produced the
desired effect. The girl cast her eyes
round the kitchen, and for the first time
saw me standing near the door. She
unclasped her arms from Kathleen's neck,
rose, smoothed back her lovely black hair,
curtsied, and murmured, " You're welcome,
sir ! " at the same time she drew

up a form beside the fire, and begged me
to be seated.

I could never bear to see a woman cry,
especially a young and pretty one : and
when I looked into Eose's pitiful face,
I felt inclined to do what my cousin had
done already — take her in my arms and
kiss her. As this was not feasible, however,
I contented myself with taking her
pretty hand, and holding it for a moment
between my own ; then when she drew
it away, I took the seat which she had
offered me by the fire.

Then I saw that Kathleen had gone
towards the bed, and was bending over
a child.

The cabin was a poor one, — about the
poorest on the Storport estate ; but though
it resembled its fellows in most ways, it
differed from them in one. It had the
usual black rafters above, mud floor below
; turf fire on the floor, and cauldron,
ever reminding one of the witch scene in

Macbeth." At one end of the room was
strewn a little straw, which I noticed at
once was fresh and clean ; and upon this
reposed the cow, — a few hens were roosting
among the rafters, and a fat pig lay
lazily beside the fire. The only furniture
in the room was a table, a couple of
forms, and a bed ; all as clean and fresh-looking
as new drawn milk ; while on the
bed, between the fresh clean sheets, lay
the prettiest little creature imaginable.

Little May was about five years old,
and though only a peasant's offspring was as
delicately organised as a little fairy. She
had her mother's black hair and dark
dreamy eyes, and evidently her mother's
excitability, for her little hands were
clammy and trembled nervously. She was
clearly suffering from an attack of some
kind of fever, for her face was flushed,
and her eyes were most unnaturally bright.
Kathleen felt her pulse ; laid her cool hand
upon the child's forehead, then turning to

the mother, asked if " May " had been
frightened ao^ain.

Sure enough, Miss Kathleen," returned
Rose, " and 'twill always be the same as
long as wee stop in Storport."

Kathleen took the girl's trembling hand,

Tell me about it, Eose," she said in
her quiet way.

She was out by herself to-day," said
Eose. "I let her go, for I was in dread
to see her looking so pale, and I thought
no harm would come to her ; when she
was coming home she met Mrs Gregory;
she tried to run away for she's terrified at
sight of her, but before she had gone far
Mrs Gregory seized her, lifted her up —
showed her that red thing on her shoulder,
and told her — and told her — oh, Miss
Kathleen, I can't tell you what she told
her ! "

*' Yes, yes," said Kathleen, " I understand.
Well, is there anything more ? "

In troth. Miss Kathleen, then there
VOL. m. F

is. When lie saw May was frightened,
she laughed and clutched her tight, and
walked away with her, and May was too
frightened to move. She carried her to
the lake in the swamps, took hold of the
back of her dress and held her over the
water, and when May screamed she only
laughed, and said she liked people to feel
what suffering was ; that, if she thought
they wouldn't hang her, she'd throw May
in and let her drown, just for the pleasure
of seeing my face when her dead body
was washed ashore."

I saw Kathleen s brow grow ominously
dark.

"It is shocking, shocking ! " she said.
Well, Rose, I suppose there is nothing
more % "

Indeed, miss, and there is. She held
poor May like that, and dipped her over
and over again deep down into the freezing
waters, till, what with the fright and
the cold, she was almost dead ; then she

o

threw her on the ground like a clog, and
told her to go home and tell me that Mrs
Gregory had done it."

Do you know, Eose, this is actionable
? I think you must summon jars
Gregory, and have her bound over to
keep the peace."

To my amazement, Eose trembled more
violently than before.

No, no, I couldn't do that, miss," she
exclaimed. " I couldn't go into a court.
I — I'd sooner go right away."

Away from your home and country,
do you mean ? "

I do, miss. Sure, what is home and
country to me now ? I asked Michael
to-night, and he said he was quite Trilling
that it might be better for us to goto
America. There's only the three of
us, you know, miss ; we've got enough
money to take us, and I'm sure Michael
would get on."

** Yes, I think he would," returned

Kathleen. " And so you are willing to
go, Michael ? "

I am, miss'* said the man quietly ; and
Kathleen rose to go.

*' Well," she said, '' I will speak to my
father about it, and we'll see what can
be done. Meantime, I must put little May
right for you. I'll give Shawn a parcel
to leave here on his way home."

Michael, as Kate had called him, offered
to fetch the parcel himself, but Kate
assured him it was not necessary. Shawn
had to pass the cabin on his way home,
and he might just as well leave it. Then
we took our leave.

Kate," I said, when we were well clear
of the cabin, " what has Mrs Gregory todo
with these people ? "

Kate answered my question with
another.

"What do you know about Mrs
Gregory ? " she said.

"Not much. I have met her twice

on the hills, I think, and to-day I saw
her again, wildly abusing Shawn because
the dogs had run through her potato
field."

"Ah, she is a terrible woman," said
Kate ; " and the marvel to me is that
she wasn't shot dowTi honos ao^o like — but
there, it is a long story, and a shocking
story, Jack. I think, now you've seen
Eose, Michael, and ]airs Gregory, I must
tell it you, but not to-night."

During the next three days we were
too much occupied either for me to remind
Kathleen of her promise, or for her to
remember it. Conolly was summoned
for assaulting the police, and but for my
uncle's interference, it might have gone
hardly with him ; as it was, he received
the sentence of a fine — a tolerably heavy
one — which my uncle paid, to the great
disgust, as we learned afterwards, of jVIr
O'NeH of the Castle.

After this excitement was over, I reminded

Kathleen of her promise, and
she told me the story of Rose Merton.

Yer honor, for the love of Almighty-god,
lave me in peace this night. My
poor wife is dying, sor — dying wit the
fever that's come to her through lack o'
food ; you'll never have the heart to do
that thing this night ! "

The speaker, a wild, gaunt, famine-stricken
man clad in the wretchedness of
rags, knelt on the ground, and almost
kissed the feet of the man to whom he
prayed. They were the centre figures of
a large crowd of men, women, and children,
some of them almost as ragged and spectre-like
as the supplicant himself. The night
was dark, the rain was falling, and the wind
blew coldly upon the saturated rags which
clung to their famished forms : the sky
was jet black overhead, save here and

there where the lightning played, but the
faces of the crowd which had gathered
around the miserable dwelling of James
Merton were faintly illuminated by the
hissing and flaring; torches of boo; fir held
on high by several hands.

But the wild red light was strongest
upon the two principal figures of the
group ; James Merton, wild, ragged, and
terror-stricken, crouching upon the ground ;
Mr Gregory, the landlord, cold and impassive
as marble, towering above him.

When the man made his piteous appeal,
the woe-begone members of the crowd
seemed to hush themselves and listen.
What would the master reply ? Would he
not show one grain of mercy, and leave
this poor wretched creature a few hours
of peace to comfort his dying wife ? They
waited, but he said nothing : one glance
into the cold marble-like face, showed them
what he meant to do.

Mr Gregory was by no means a popular

landlord ; indeed his reign had been one
of merciless tyranny — ever since he purchased
the estate and came to dwell in
Storport, now nearly twenty years before,
the air had been full of wailing voices,
and the churchyard rapidly filled with
dead ; hundreds of his tenants had been
turned into living cargo for the American
ships ; while others had been left to die
like beasts upon the road. His motto
was pay, or go. When the rent was not
forthcoming, the tenant was shipped off
to try his fortune in foreign lands ; when
the tenant could not be got to leave
the hut, it was razed to the ground.
This system of things had been in
vogue, as I have said, for nigh upon
twenty years, and still Mr Gregory
lived, committing every year fresh outrages,
fresh cruelties ; but he had capped
the most atrocious of his deeds that
night, when he had ordered that the
machine of his own invention should be

carried down to unroof the miserable
hut of James Merton.

Merton was certainly the poorest man on
the Storport estate ; he had begun life badly,
with a piece of land which was devoid of
all nutrition, and a hut which was likely at
any moment to tumble about his ears ; besides
this, he had a fragile, delicate wife, and
a pretty, little delicate-looking daughter : but
he was a hard-working, honourable man ;
he tilled his bit of land, and managed every
year to satisfy the demands of the landlord,
voracious as they were. At last, however,
he found he could do so no longer. He
looked at his wife one morning, and started
as if he had looked upon the dead : he
saw the truth. Every time he had laid
his money upon Mr Gregory's table, he
had laid there a drop from the life-blood
of his wife. She had paid the landlord,
but she was gradually but surely parting
with her life. James Merton, rough man
as he was, felt a choking sensation come

into his throat, and he bent above the
turf sods which lay upon the floor, to
hide a few scalding tears. He loved his
wife. Unlike most Storport marriages, his
had been a romantic one, since he had
been content to take to his hearth a
portionless girl, merely because he loved
her : besides this want of dowry, it had
been considered by almost every boy in
Storport that Eose Monnaghan was nota
desirable match. She was too delicate
to work in the fields as other women
did, or to go bare-footed and bare-headed
to face every inclement season of the year :
but it was these very facts which attracted
James Merton, and made the great strongman
love the girl who seemed to him like
a delicate flower ; and Eose loved her
husband, and was happy, save now and
then when her delicate conscience smote
her for having brought him no fortune
as other girls brought to their husbands ;
and when she reflected that she could not

help him as they helped theirs by working
in the fields, and carrying home the household
turf. Still she tried to make up for it
in other ways. She kept her hut as clean
as a palace, she was handy at mending
her husband's clothes, and when she found
that their moderate income was insufficient
to meet the demands, she quietly decided
that since she was the helpless one she
must be the one to suffer ; so although the
stern landlord was satisfied, she felt that
she was travelling slowly the downward
path of life. When Merton discovered the
sacrifice that she had made, he uttered no
word, but instead of going to his work
that morning, he walked over to the dispensary,
and had a word with the doctor.
Two days later Dr Maguire called at the hut,
and before he left, he had ordered Eose
Merton to eat meat and drink wine.

Eat meat and drink wine ! where were
they to come from ? Eose knew very well
she could scarcely get milk to wash down

the potatoes which were her only food.
She ceased, therefore, to think of the
doctor's advice : but her husband remembered
it.

When the rent day came, and the
tenants, according to a rule established by
Mr Gregory, went up to the Castle with
their rent, Merton went with the rest ;
his name being called, he entered the
room which had been converted into a
kind of office, and placed his little heap
of silver on the table at which the
landlord sat. Then he paused, looked at
the stern face of his master, and turned
about the hat which he held in his
hand.

*' Well," said Mr Gregory, "have you
anything to say to me ? "

I have, yer honor ! "

Out with it then. My time is precious,
to-day ! "

"Well, yer honor, 'tis just this; the
rent o' the bit o' land that I have is a

heap too high ; yer honor, it is not
worth what I have to pay ! "

The landlord turned round and looked
at his tenant.

My good man," he said, " allow me
to tell you that the land is worth just
as much as I can get for it. If you are
not satisfied with it, leave it. I've no
doubt I'd get a little more from somebody
else ! "

'Tis not that, yer honor," said
Merton quietly. " I don't want to go, I
only wanted to tell yer honor that the
rent was high."

And how, may I ask, did you make
that discovery ? "

Merton paused for a moment : then he
told the truth. He told how his poor
wife had been starving herself in order
to keep her husband right with the landlord
; he told of the doctor's visit ; of the
doctor's orders ; and he added, —

"If yer honor would be so good as to

take down the rent, I could maybe get
the things for my poor wife — "

Then make up your mind once and
for ever, that I shall not do anything of
the kind," interrupted Mr Gregory, impatiently.
*'If all my tenants got reductions
on account of sickly wives, I
wonder how my family would live ! No !
you must pay the rent, or go. As for
your wife, I suppose the hospital or workhouse
is open to her as well as to others."

He opened the door, hustled him out,
and called in another.

When the next pay day came round,
Merton laid on the table just the half
of his usual sum, and in answer to the
landlord's look of astonishment, he said
doggedly,—

'' That's all I've got, yer honor 1 "

'^ Then what do you mean to do ? — go ? '*

I do not yer honor — plaise God, you
shall have the rest of it the next time."

But that time never came ; each payday

Merton found he could only send
about the half of his rent to the landlord ;
so one day he was served with a summons,
and a notice to quit.

What was he to do ? The little sustenance
which he was able to get for his
wife had not been sufficient to eradicate
the seeds of the disease which had been
sown by years of insufficient food. Each
day found her worse ; and when the
summons and notice to quit were put
into his hand, she was lying in the bed
slowly dying of consumption. James
Merton thought a while ; then he determined
to make one last appeal to his
master. He quietly put the summonses
in his pocket, and sat by the bedside
holding between his the parched and
feverish hand of his wife ; when she had
fallen into a doze, he left his little
daughter to watch her, and walked himself
up to the landlord's house. The
family had just finished dinner, and when

Merton was shown into the dining-room he
found Mr Gregory alone, still lingering over
his nuts and wine. If Gregory had looked
up, he would have seen that the man's
face was white and haggard, and almost
desperate in its agony — but he did not
look up — he continued to crack his nuts,
and sip his wine, and asked carelessly, —

Well, what is it ? "

Morton drew the papers from his pocket
and laid them on the table.

Does yer honor know," he asked, " that
I have got these ? "

Of course ! "

And what does yer honor think that I
can do ? "

You'll have to do exactly what those
papers say — pay your rent or go ! "

Yer honor, I can pay the rent ! "

Then you must go ! "

And I can't do that neither, yer honor ! "

Mr Gregory went on carelessly cracking
his nuts :

It's no use coming to me with stories of
that kind," he said, '' I'm used to them,
therefore they make no impression upon
me. You ought to know by this time I
mean what I say — therefore, if you won't
pay your rent, and won't give up possession
of your hut, you'll be turned out neck and
crop, that's all."

"Yer honor," cried the man piteously,
** think of my poor wife ! "

Think of your wife ! " returned the landlord
contemptuously. " If you had done
that yourself she wouldn't be in my power
to-day — she'd be lying in one of the wards
of the workhouse ! There, get out, I've no
more time to waste — I want to have a quiet
evening ! "

And before Merton could think of another
word to say, he found that he had been
hustled out of the house, and was walking
dejectedly home again.

VOL. III. O

These constant interviews with the landlord
were changing the man's whole nature,
and as he walked home that day there was
a desperate look about his eyes and mouth
which showed the resolution he had taken.
He meant to defy the landlord. He meant
to let his suffering wife have at least the
comfort of dying beneath her husband's
roof, with her husband's hands to tend her,
and his voice to soothe.

During the next three days Merton had
no time even to think of the landlord : his
wife grew rapidly worse ; and it took all
his care to alleviate the suffering which
none could cure.

At the end of three days he was reminded
of his position by Mr Gregory himself, who
looked in and asked him if he was ready to
deliver up possession of his hut. For answer,
Merton pointed to his wife. She lay
upon the bed, worn to a skeleton ; her cheeks

flushed with the fever which consumed
her ; her eyes already dim with approaching
death. She saw and heard ; and dying, as
she was, her only thought was for her husband
and child.

Yer honor," she murmured feebly,
stretching out towards him her trembling
hand, " don't be too hard on my husband,
and my poor little motherless child. It will
be right again for them when I am gone
away."

Without a word the landlord turned and
left the cabin.

Three days later he appeared again, on a
wild inclement evening, which had been
ushered in with biting winds and heavily
falling rain. This time he was not alone :
he had been through the village that day,
collecting rent from some, serving processes
on others, and razing to the ground the
huts of those who could not be made to go.

Since he had come to Storport he had invented
a machine which at one fell swoop
could nnroof a cabin, and leave the
helpless inmates at the mercy of wind
and rain. The machine had committed
ravages that day : it was night-fall before
it was set down near the hut of
James Merton.

For the most part of that day the poor
fellow had sat like one in a terrible dream,
watching the light of life gradually fade
from the eyes of the wife he loved so well.
When night fell, and he heard the murmuring
of the crowd which gathered round
his hut, he walked to the door, saw, and
understood. With a low wail of terror
and misery he staggered forward like a
drunken man, and fell at his master s feet.

Yer honor ! " he moaned ; "for the love
of God ! "

But the landlord said nothing : he shook

off the man as if he had been a reptile, and
ordered his men to proceed.

The evening had begun badly, but as
every hour advanced it grew worse and
worse. By this time the wind blew as bitterly
as any wind in winter, and the rain
was mingled with large drops of hail. A
wild night for those who had food and
shelter — a pitiable one on which to unroof a
hut above a dying woman's head. Yet it
was done that night. Amidst the groans of
the assembled crowd, and in spite of the
piteous pleading of James Merton, the machine
was set to work, and in five minutes
all that was left of the hut was four miserable
walls.

When da^^Ti broke, over tracks of sodden
england and a limitless expanse of sea, it
showed James Merton sitting amongst the
ruins of his hut beside the rain-drenched

corpse of his wife. Beside him was his
little daughter, shivering in the saturated
rags which hung about her, and gazing with
wistful eyes at all she saw. For she was
too young to understand ; she only knew
that her home was a ruin, and that her
mother was stiff and cold.

11.

Twelve years after the events chronicled
above, amidst the glorious sunset of a lovely
autumn day, a young girl, none other, indeed,
than little Eose Merton, was walking slowly
along the high road which led to Storport.
Rose was now eighteen years of age. She
was tall and shapely, with a pretty face, and
large dark eyes, which, when they gazed at
you straight, had a strange, wistful expression
— the very look which had been implanted
there that terrible night when she

sat with her father among the ruined walls
of her home.

The sunset was glowing all round her ;
making a picture of the dreary waste ;
picking out the little clumps of purple
heather, the great black turf stacks erected
on the bog, and the ragged figures of men
and women who toiled wearily over the
wastes with creels upon their backs. But
Eose, walking slowly along the road, looked
neither to the right nor to the left, but
kept her eyes fixed steadily upon the
ground as if in deep thought.

Suddenly a hand was placed upon her
shoulder — she gave a half-stifled cry, turned
round, and looked straight into the face of
a man.

Michael ! " she gasped, trying to force a
smile, and then she held out her hand.

Why, Eose, what a start I gave ye," said
Michael Jamieson, taking her hand and

keeping it ; "I was cutting turf on the bog
yonder when I saw ye pass, — but now I'm
done. I mean to walk and have a talk
with ye to-night. But first, Eose, darling ,
won't you give me a kiss ? "

Now, for the first time, the girl raised her
eyes, and glanced keenly at the prospect
about her ; then she answered quietly, with
some nervousness and hesitation, —

Yes, Michael, if— if you like."

If I like ! " echoed Michael, putting his
arm around her and kissing her pretty lips
again and again ; " I should think I did
like, Eose. . . . Why, mavourneen' he
added suddenly, " what's the matter ? Why
do you turn your face away from me ? "

The girl, still nervous and ill at ease,
answered strangely, —

It's nothing — nothing — "

They were walking side by side by this
time ; again Eose's eyes were fixed wistfully

upon the ground. The young man
was watching her face.

Eose," he said presently, " I'm in dread
there's something on your mind. Of late
ye haven't seemed like the bold, brave colleen
I used to know. Well, I know, you're
sorely tried at home. Your father's too
much in with the Eibbon boys, machine,
and if he don't mind it's the young master
that'll be turning him out of house and
home ! "

The girl started ; then she looked up with
a smile.

Sure, hell never do that, Michael," she
said.

Why not ? "

She laughed rather nervously.

Never mind, but there's no fear of
that ? "

"Why not, Eose," asked her companion
somewhat sternly.

"Well — because — the master has promised
to be his friend."

He started and grew pale as a ghost.

Promised ! " he echoed ; " who has he
promised ? "

'* Me," returned the girl, growing more
and more nervous. " I — I spoke to him."

You ! " echoed the man, now paler than
before ; 'you spoke to the young master ? "

*' Sure, there was no harm ! " returned
Eose. '' Yes, Michael, I spoke to him, and
oh, you don't know how kind he is 1 "

He's a heap too kind when a pretty
girl comes near him."

That's nonsense, Michael."

I don't know," returned the young
fellow. ** I've heard tales ; but there, what
a fool I am, as if I couldn't trust you
to speak wit the dioul himself. Don't
mind me, Eose, 'tis only my jealous way.
I'll behave better when I've got ye all to

myself. Eose, darling," he added, bending a
bit nearer to her, ** when's the day to be ? "

What day, Michael ? "

** As if you didn't know ; why our marriage
day — to be sure ! "

The girl gently withdrew her hand from
his.

Don't talk about that," she said.

But I must talk about it, Eose. You've
put me off long enough, and you can't say
I haven't been patient. Come, look mein
the face, macliree. Why should you be
ashamed ? We've been lovers ever since
we were children, and some day soon we
must be something more."

But the girl positively shuddered.

'Tis folly to talk of it," she said, " least
of all now"

Why not now, Eose ? "

Because the world and God are both
against us. You know I've got no fortune,

not so much as a hen ; and you — you are
poorer than ever now."

The young man smiled, —

*' Don't you know what the song says ? "
he answered lightly, " * Sure poverty's no
sin ! ' I don't want your fortune, darling', I
want but you ; and as to myself, sure enough
I'm poor, but I feel if I had but got you
by my fireside to help and comfort me I
could do the work of three."

'• Ah, that's what they all say before
they marry ; but afterwards it's all sorrow
and tears. No, Michael, it can't be. I've
seen too much of it. Look all round us.
Sure there's nothing but trouble and
hunger, and every hut has got more mouths
than it can feed. Why should we marry,
to make one more wretched home ? "

Rose ! "

Well, Michael."

"I don't think them words came out of

your right heart. Something has changed
you. Some rascal has been turning you
against me ! "

No, no, Michael," cried the girl hurriedly,
'' 'tis not that."

But it is. I've seen it a honor time
back. IVe said little, but it made my heart
bleed. Rose, a little while ao-o you didn't
look like that or talk as you talk now,
and you used to be as bright as a May
morning', and as kind as a colleen could
be. Eose, what has changed you ? why
do you shrink away when I put my arm
around you, and tremble when I kiss your
cheek ? Oh, Rose, Rose, I've loved you
ever since I could think or dream what love
meant, and are you going' to leave me now ? "

Pale and tremulous the girl turned
towards him and put her little hands in
his ; it was an impetuous movement, which
told him he had touched her heart.

Michael," she cried, almost sobbing, ** I
love you — God knows I love you ! "

He took her hands, held them firmly in
his, and looked steadily into her eyes.

You love me," he said ; " me, and
no other ? "

You and no other, dear," answered
the girl, not flinching from his gaze ;
*' but, oh, Michael," she added, quietly
drawing her hands away, " don't let us
think of it, we — we're too poor. God is
against us ! "

God's never against true lovers, Eose,"
answered the young fellow steadily ; " and
if your heart's not changed, 'tis His will
that we should come together."

Ah, no, no ! "

Eose ! "

** I — I can't bear it, Michael. I can't

face it," cried the girl, now almost sobbing.

I'm not like other girls ; I think I'm too

weak, and you'll say I'm a coward, but
I know what poverty means. Michael,
listen to me. Don't be angry, but listen.
Suppose I could help you a thousand times
better by not marrying you, suppose I
could keep not only you, but father, and
everybody in Storport from poverty and
trouble, and all by not marrying you,
what would you say to that ? "

The young fellow stared at her in blank
amazement.

What do you mean ? " he asked ; " I
don't rightly understand."

The girl turned away her head.

*' Nothing," she answered ; *' I mean
nothing ; I'm silly, and don't know what
I'm saying ! "

Rose," said Michael solemnly, taking
her hands and forcing her to look at him,
** tell me, swear to me, you don't love
another man ? "

'' I don't."

** Swear it ! " he repeated, almost fiercely,
Well then, Michael, I swear it."
Then if that's true, kiss me, Eose, and
speak not another word o' sorrow or
parting. I see what it is, your father has-been
bringing trouble to the house, and
your heart is a bit down. It was the
trouble that spoke, not my own Eose.
Kiss me again, mavourneen, better times-will
come ; they must come ; but never say
they'll come to us two apart ; for without
you my life would be wasted, and my
heart would break ! "

He folded his arms around her and held
her close, kissing her cheek and lips, and
Eose, clinging to him as if for protection,
shed a few silent tears. The bright glow
of sunset had faded, and the prospect all
round was growing as sombre as the black-looking
bog. The lovers walked on, hand-in-hand

until they reached the hut which
was Michael's home. There they paused,
and he asked Eose to come in, but the
girl shook her head.

Not to - night, Michael," she said ;
good-bye."

Good-bye ! No, I mane to go along
home with you."

Aofain the o^irl's agitation returned.

No, no," she said ; '* not to-night. I
I've a message — I must go alone ; but
you may meet me tomorrow."

You wish it, darling ? "

Yes, I do ! "

Then so it shall be ; your will is law
to me. I'll trv and find out what's coins:
among the boys ; mischief, I'm afraid.
Good-night, Rose — good-night."

One kiss and then they parted ; Rose
walking quickly across the bog until she
reached her home.

VOL. III. H

III.

The only home which Eose Merton had
ever known was a wretched hovel, built
of moss-covered stones and nd, and roofed
with sods of turf. It contained but one
room, which was clean and neat, for Eose
had inherited her mother's cleanliness as
well as her beauty. The hut was empty ;
so before sitting down to indulge in reflections,
Eose set about preparing her father's
supper. Her first care was to remove her
bonnet and shawl, and tie. on a large
apron of coarse holland ; then she stood
for a moment before the old cracked
looking-glass which was nailed up to the
wall, to arrange her pretty black hair.
Then she set to work. She knocked together
the few sods of turf which lay
smouldering on the hearth, filled the black
cauldron with potatoes, lifted it on to the

hook which dangled at the end of the
thick black chain suspended from the
rafters, and her task was done. While
she waited for the potatoes to boil, she
sat down on the form which stood near
the fire and began to think.

First she thought of Michael, and of
the interview which she had just had
with him ; then she thought of young Mr
Gregory, the master of Storport.

It was now some time since the young
man, attracted by the girl's pretty face
and gentle manners, had been secretly
paying his court to her. At first Eose,
though certainly flattered by the young
master's attentions, had quietly resisted him,
for she had promised to marry Michael
Jamieson, as handsome and as hard-working
a boy as there was in Storport, but
afterwards, after much mental deliberation,
Eose's mind gradually changed. She knew

that despite his steady, hard work, Michael
Jamieson was excessively poor, having
scarcely enough to feed himself and his
old mother who lived with him; therefore
it was an indiscreet thing; to ask in
marriage a portionless girl like herself.
Besides, she had been somewhat delicately
nurtured, and was therefore not a fit helpmate
for a Storport boy. She had never
been accustomed to work in the fields ;
]put by dint of her own sharpness, and
a taste for sewing, she had managed to
gain a little knowledge of dressmaking.
In pursuit of this occupation she went
about from hut to hut, picking up a few
shillings or a meal, and sometimes she
went for a few days to Ballyshanrany
to work for my cousins. But Eose had
never been able to save and accumulate
a fortune like other girls, for her
father's hut and wretched plot of land were

heavily rented, and her father spent a good
deal in drink. Besides the grim pinch ot"
poverty, there were other things which
made her gradually look less coldly upon
the attentions of the master. « The feeliuLi"
of revolt against want and wretchedness,
which was gradually spreading over Ireland,
had already touched Storport — the village
was known to hold a band of Kibbonmen
in its heart ; and Rose felt tolerably sure
that the leading spirit of the band washer
own father.

At the rising of the people she was not
astonished ; they were desperate men —
turned almost into beasts by years of
cruel oppression, and now they rose up,
like gaunt spectres from the grave, prepared
to strike for home and kindred.
Rose was terrified, and for the first thine*
she asked herself, —

Why should I not listen to the master

? If I were to marry him I could
save them all ! "

It was the first time she had put her
thoughts into words, and the words shocked
her. For she loved Michael Jamieson, and
she did not love Mr Gregory ; therefore,
it required a good deal of mental deliberation
to bring her round to the thought
of marrying him. Nevertheless, the decision
was ultimately arrived at. Eose
determined to sacrifice herself for the good
of her people.

Suddenly, however, her plans were again
rudely razed to the ground ; for since that
interview with Michael — since she had read
his thoughts and had been prompted to
look into her own heart, she knew that
if she stretched forth her hand to save
her people, her own heart would break.
So now she set to work again to think
it all over, and wonder what she must do.

Before she had arrived at any decision,
her father came in.

Those twelve years which had come
and gone had wrought a wondrous changes
in James Merton. His body was bent,
his head snows white, and his face was
wrinkled.

You are late, father," said Rose, putting
her arm gently round his neck and kissing
him. Then she turned out the stemming
potatoes, and the two sat down and began
to eat.

'father," said Rose, presently.

** Well, Rose ? "

I think I've got some good work
coming. ]\Xiss Kathleen was telling nie
to-day that Mrs Gregory wanted a seamstress,
and that she had recommended me."

The man raised his head, and glared
at her like a wild beast.

Mrs Gregory ! " he exclaimed.

'' Yes, in troth."

Then you won't go — do you hear me,
Rose, you won't go ! "

Not go ! " said Eose, in astonishment ;
"why not, father?"

Because I say so ! " returned the man
fiercely. " Her clothes may rot before
my daughter saves them ! "

To this the girl said nothing. She rose
and began to quietly put away the things,
and as she did so, the tears ran slowly
down her cheeks. Her father saw them ;
he put out his hand, and said gently, —

Rose, machine, come here."

She went to him ; he put his arms
about her — drew her gently to his breast,
and with his coarse hand smoothed back
her silken hair.

Rosie," he said, " my little Rosie, you
mustn't think on what I say. I'm not
the man I was, darling'. These hard times

that are coming to us kiocl o' stir up the
old sorrow, and sometimes I think I'm
living' through it all ao;ain."

"Dear father," said Rose, as she clung
to him, crying a little, and he kissed her
tenderly again, as he said, —

"Eosie, I've been thinking' o' your poor
mother to-day. 'Twas through old Mr
Gregory that she died. You don't remember
it ; you were too young. Rose,
but he unroofed the house when she was
dying. Sure he's dead now, and I try
to forgive — but I can't forget."

Then Rose heard the story of her mother's
death, and her father's wrongs. Shortly
after James Merton left her to think it
over alone.

Half-an-hour after her father had left the
hut. Rose Merton threw a shawl over her
head and went out too, carefully closing
the door behind her. It was quite dark,

but she knew every inch of the ground
which she had to traverse, and could have
found her way blindfold.

She went straight across the bog, until
she found herself standing in a sequestered
part of the road. Here she paused to
listen — there was no sound — then she
commenced to walk slowly up and down.
Presently her quick ear detected the sound
of other footsteps. She drew aside ; the
footsteps came nearer and nearer ; apparently
she recognised them at last, for
she came from her hiding-place and went
forward.

Eose, is it you ? " asked a man's voice,
in a half whisper.

And the girl tripping forward, replied, —

'' Yes, sir, it is I."

The next moment she felt herself in
the close embrace of the young master
of Storport.

My pretty little Rose," he said, " I'm
late, infernally late ; but you've no idea
what trouble I've had to get away at all.
But now, I am here, 'tis all right. Come,
give me my reward."

Instead of holding up her cheek as usual
for his careless kiss, Eose turned her head
away, and struggled to free herself from
his embrace.

Don't, sir, if you please," she said.

Why, what's the matter ? " said the
young man, astonished. " Aise you angry
with me for delaying so long, Eose ? Come,
come, be reasonable, and give me the kiss
of forgiveness."

But still she struo-orled and resisted.

Sir, will you let me go ? " she
cried ; " some one is coming; along; the
road."

Nonsense 'tis only the wind howling.
Why, Eose, how cold your little hands

feel. You're not warmly enough clad
for such weather as this."

Sure, I'm not cold," returned the girl
uneasily, withdrawing her hands, as she
had withdrawn her body, from his embrace.
'but I — I want to speak to
you."

Want to speak to me ? wdiy, of course
you do," returned the young man, with
a light laugh; 'rand as to myself, why,
I've a thousand things to say. Before
I left home to-night I was in a devil of
a temper. But there, I don't mean to
talk about that or what caused it, for
I'm quite comfortable now. Eose, take
my arm."

In troth, sir, I'd rather walk alone."

Take my arm ; I insist ! "

No, sir, 'tis not right. You're a
gentleman, and I'm but a poor girl. We
must never meet again."

Hullo ! " he echoed, iu amazement.

It's true, sir," persisted the girl. '•' I
came here to-night to tell you that same."

Rubbish ! " returned the young man
carelessly. " You came here to-night,
you little witch, to give me a few kisses,
as you've often done before. Certainly
I'm a gentleman, as you say, and you're
not a fine lady ; but for all that I love
you, and I mean to indulge my whim.
Poor ! There's nothing money can buy
which you shall not have, — fine dresses,
carriages, servants to wait upon you.
And when you are clothed as your beauty
deserves, show me the lady who'll look
half as handsome as my little Eose ! "

Again he attempted to embrace her ;
again the girl put up her hand to keep
him away.

Oh, sir, don't talk like that," she cried
pleadingly ; "it was words like them

that first made me listen to you, and do
all the harm I've done. I thought — God
forgive me — 'twould be nice to be a
fine lady, for then I could help my
father, and some of the poor creatures
here ; but now, I know I couldn't do it ;
it would break my father's heart."

Your father ! what's he been saying —
have you told him ? "

*ein troth, sir, I have not. But today
he was tellin' something to me.
Sir, Mr Gregory — it was your father that
unroofed our hut, and left my mother
to die of cold."

The young man paused for a moment
before he replied.

*eyes," he said, "I believe he did;
it wasn't a pleasant thing to do ; but
whether or not, I don't see how that is to
affect us. You can't blame me for what
my father did. If every man was made

answerable for the sins of his relations,
heaven knows how the world would get
on."

No, sir, I'm not blaming you ; I'm
only telling you that I can never meet
you again, because it would break my
father's heart. Now, sir, if you please,
good-night. Let me go home."

No," said the young man firmly,
you shan't go — not at least till you've
promised to meet me again."

I can't promise, sir. In troth, I
mustn't come — my mind's made up."

Absurd ! you know I love you."

Indeed, sir," returned the girl sadly,
I'm very, very sorry. I humbly beg
your pardon for making you think that
I liked you ; but when you are with
your own friends you'll soon forget me.
Good-night."

He rushed towards her with outstretched

arms, and some passionate words upon his
lips ; when he was startled by heavy
footsteps on the road. He paused fora
moment. During that moment Eose
passed into the darkness, and disappeared.


IV.

While Eose Merton had been having
her interview with the young master of
Storport, the young man himself was
receiving his sentence of death. In a
large underground kitchen, in the house
of the widow Timlin, about half-a-dozen
men were seated — wild, worn-out, ragged-looking
creatures, who gazed at each other
in strange intensity, and talked in low,
deep tones. They were all tenants on
the Storport estate — James Merton, and
Conolly Magrath being amongst the number
— while in the kitchen was the widow

Timlin herself, a phlegmatic spectator of
all that was taking place. The men
crowded close together — shoeing, in the
dimly-lighted chamber, faces of ghastly
pallor — for the time being all their eyes
were turned upon one member of the
band ; the very man who had been sent
as an emissary to Mr Gregory, and who
had succeeded in putting that young
gentleman into such a temper before he
went to meet Rose. Slowly and methodically
the man told his tale.

Well boys," he said, " I went up to
the Castle, and I saw the master himself.
I told him the truth. I asked him, for
the love of God, to take down the rents
a bit, because we were all starving'.
He was just about leaving the house,
so he kicked me out o' his road as though
I'd been a dog — would me to go to the
agent, and tried to get away. But I
VOL, m. 1

didn't let him go. I laid hould on him,
and he had to listen."

The man paused a moment, for he
was trembling excessively, and though his
manner was stolid, he was evidently
much excited. Mrs Timlin, who had
been smoking her pipe in a corner, came
forward, poured out a glass of whisky,
and pushed it towards him.

Drink it off, Toneyy," she said, " and
let us hear all that the black-hearted
rascal had to say."

The man took her advice, and went on.

He wasn't over pleased at been' held,
Mrs Timlin," said he to the widow,
who fixed her black eyes upon him,
and nodded her wild head to encourage
him. "And when I told him that we
was all starving," — he said, so much the
better for himself, it was only clearing
his estate of so many vagabonds that

was bringing it lower and lower every
year. "

A groan-went through the company,
and Mrs Timlin's face looked positively
gorgon-like.

Bad cess to his black heart ! " said
she ; " go on, Toneyy."

I would him we'd all prayed to the
agent in vain, and that now, speaking'
for all of us, I went to him. I beckoned
him for the love of Almighty God to
come and see for himself if my tale
was true. Boys, he struck me, and
kicked me as if I had been a brute
baste, and when I stao-orered back almost
blinded w^id his blow he laughed, and
walked away ! ' You'll starve quietly in
future, my friend,' said he ; ' and when
you're all over seas — which would bethe
best place for you — perhaps I shall
get a little peace on my estate.' "

There was a moment of dead silence ;
then a murmur ran round the room.
Before any definite words were spoken,
James Merton rose, —

"Boys," he said, "/ want to say a
few words to you now. You all remember,
^Y^ years ago, you wanted me
to be the man to put a bullet through
the young master's head ; and when I said
No,' you thought me a coward, because
you knew I'd good cause to hate the
very name of Gregory. Well, so I had,
God knows, and so I have got now.
They've treated me worse nor the brute
bastes o' the field; and if I'd done
right by myself, I should ha' turned
my back on the lot o' them, and gone
straight away to Amerikey the day I
laid my poor wife in the ground. I
tried to do it, but I couldn't ; I just
went to the master, and begged him

to take me back. What did he say ?
Though he knew that my poor wife had
died for lack 0' food, and because he
knew it would break my heart to lave
the only bit o* land that I loved in
the world, — he said, 'Yes, take your hut
and land, James Merton ; but you'll
pay the old rent ! ' Well, I was eager
to get the bit o' land, so I said, ' Yes
I took it, and from that day till the
day he died I paid him the rent ; though
God alone knows what I've gone through
to do it. That night he died, I thanked
Almighty God. Then you came to me,
and proposed that I should send the
young master along wit him ; but I
said *No,' — I'd got a daughter of my ^
own, and I thought of his poor mother,
and I couldn't bring my hand to strike
at an innocent man. I said to myself,
Sure he can't help what his father did ;

maybe he's got a heart, and will make
amends.' I waited, and I soon found I
was wrong — he was worse than his father ;
and when I looked every day on my
miserable neighbours, my heart bled. You
thought old James Merton was a coward ;
you thought he hadn't a heart for ye ;
but I'll tell ye what he did — he went
up boldly, and spoke to the young
master, and he got — just what Toneyy
got to-day — sent out o' the house as
if he had been a dog. So now I see
what it's going' to be — starvation and
misery ; and I say, * Death to the tyrant
wit the black heart that is sending us
all to the grave ! ' "

Amidst a low murmur of approval,
Merton paused ; a good deal of lively
discussion followed ; at the end of it Mrs
Timlin, who had been busily at work
in a corner of the room, came forward

with a little box which she placed in the
middle of the table. Every man present
knew what that meant. Before dipping
their hands into the box, they paused in
strange hesitation. Mrs Timlin bared
her brown ^Tist, and without waiting for
the others, thrust her hand into the box.

I mane to have the first pull," she
said, *' phase God, I get the lucky number."

Amidst a silence which was almost
death-like, she drew forth her hand again ;
this time her fingers were closed over a
slip of paper. The box was handed
round ; each man drew his piece forth,
then the box was placed on one side,
and the men showed their numbers. A
piece of paper marked with a black
cross had passed into the hand of James
Merton.

The man started, and as his eye rested
upon the mark, his cheek grew ashen grey.

But he quickly pulled himself together and
shook the hands of his comrades, one and all,
and by that token he accepted the solemn
trust which he knew he must fulfil.

During the fortnight which ""^ followed
that eventful night, there was little
peace and no happiness beneath James
Merton's roof. He drank much whisky ;
he took scarcely any food ; he looked the
very ghost of what he once had been,
and when his daughter spoke of this and
tried to learn the cause, he turned upon
her and fiercely bade her be at peace.
If James Merton had been less occupied
with what he himself had planned to do,
he would have noticed the change that
was taking place in Rose. Since that
night when she had said her last farewell

to Mr Gregory lie had never beheld him,
but she knew that things in the village
were growing worse and worse, and she
wondered if she herself was the cause.
The agent was harder than ever on the
tenants, and he acted, he said, under Vir
Gregory's express commands.

Whole families were evicted ; others
were cast into prison, and some after
having their houses razed to the ground
before their eyes, had actually starved upon
the roadside. The people said nothing,
but one morning young Mr Gregory was
astonished to receive his sentence of death.
The young gentleman turned pale for a
moment, and, when a little later his agent
came up for orders, he handed him the
paper.

Say nothing to my mother," he said,
or she'll worry herself unnecessarily.
Of course I shall send for a guard of

police for the Castle, and I shall order
one to follow me wherever I go, so I
shall be all right. It must be your task
to see that these ruffians suffer for having
dared to send me this."

So the agent went off to obey his master,
while the young master, with characteristic
recklessness, began to think once more of
Eose Merton.

Since that night when she had bade
him farewell, he had done little else but
think of her. Indeed, he was devising
all sorts of means to obtain his end. He
had even planned a false marriage, and
subsequent desertion, when his difficulties
were suddenly solved by Eose herself.
She sent to him and begged for another
meeting. The young man smiled ; having
got exactly what he had been longing
for, he ceased to attach so much value
to it ; he only thought that since she had

been the one to give in, his task would
be the easier.

At the time and place which she mentioned,
he went to meet her, followed by
the constable, his bodyguard. He found
her waiting, obedient, respectful, and
prettier than ever. But when he came
nearer, he saw that she was pale and
sad-looking, and he attributed this change
to sorrow for himself.

He went up to her and took her hands,
and before she could say a word or do
anything to resist him, he had thrown his
arms about her and kissed her fondly. Rose
disengaged herself from his embrace.

Sir, — Mr Gregory," she said " sure,
it wasn't for that I came here to-night. I
wanted to speak to ye me own self about
the poor creatures in the village."

The young man frowned, and angrily
bit his lip.

*' A deal of love you must have forme,
Eose," he said, " if you come to plead
their cause. Do you know they have
threatened to shoot me % "

Yes, sir, sure, I know that same."
"" And you've come to say they'll do it
if I don't give in, I suppose ; well, let me
tell you, my darling, I don't mean to
give in. And as for the threat sent tome,
I have instructed my agent to see
that every man in the village is made
to suffer for it."

*' Sir, you haven't done that 1 "
** I have, and I hope he'll carry out my
orders."

Oh, sir, you surely haven't the heart
to do a thing like that. Sure, they're
harmless enough, and they don't want
to harm you — all they want is to save
their wives and little children, who are
just starving' for lack o' bread."

Let them starve ! Eose, listen to me.
I want to speak to you. Have you reconsidered
your last decision — you know
I love you, Eose, and would willingly share
my home with you ? "

Oh, sir," cried the poor girl, " I — I
cannot."

Eose, don't say that — remember I'm
not a man to be thwarted — and it would
be better for you to keep me your friend
than make an enemy of me. Eose, would
you still say * No ' if I offered even to
make you my wife ? "

He was thinking of that false marriage
which he had planned, but of course Eose
knew nothing of this, and he expected
her face to be suddenly illuminated at
the brilliant prospect of becoming the
master's bride. To his surprise, however,
Eose stared at him in amazement.

Your wife 1 " she echoed ; " and did

you not mean to make me your wife all
along ? "

Our positions are so different," said the
young man uneasily, " I thought we might
have been happy enough without marriage.
There, do not be angry — do not turn away
I'll marry you in defiance of all the world,
I tell you, rather than give you up."

Sir, let me go ! " she cried indignantly,
trying to free herself from the arms which
he had thrown around her.

No — ^be reasonable, Rose, hear me ! "

He held her tightly to him — but she
still struggled.

I've heard enough, Mr Gregory ! God
forgive me for meeting you at all ! But
I'm warned in time. Don't hold me, sir,
for I won't stay ! "

But I say you shall stay ! " returned the
young man fiercely ; " who are you to fight
against me, the master of Storport — since

you won't come with me willingly, you
shall come unwillingly ! I won't be made
a fool of for nothing ! "

He put his hand over her mouth to
stifle a scream, and would have dragged
her away ; when suddenly he felt a heavy
hand seize him by the collar and roughly
hurl him aside : he staggered across the
road: while Eose Merton, kept from falling
by the same firm hand which had hurled off
her assailant, looked up, and encountered
the gaze of Michael Jamieson. The young
fellow's face was quite composed, but his
cheeks were very pale; he looked half
sadly, half reproachfully at the girl, but he
did not utter a word. Meanwhile Mr
Gregory had recovered himself — with a face
crimson with rage he came up to the pair who
stood confronting each other in the road.

Who is this fellow ? " he asked roughly.

Michael Jamieson still looked at the girl.

Eose Merton," said he, paying no attention
whatever to the words of the master,
it's late for a young colleen to be out on
the roads alone. You'd best get home ! "

But the girl trembling violently put up
her hands in supplication.

'' Oh, Michael," she cried, " don't be
angry ! "

'' I'm not angry," he returned quietly ;
** but do you go home ! "

"That she shall not burst in young
Gregory ; *' who are you that order her —
what's your right over her ? "

The right of an honest man, that won't
see her put upon by a villain ! "

*' Fair words, you rascal — "

*i've found out," continued the young
fellow, preserving that sang froid which
gave him a wonderful advantage over his
opponent, "never mind how, that you've
been paying your court to Eose Merton ;

and when I happened to see the two o' you
come together to-night, I thought Td watch ;
for I'm her friend, and her father's friend,
and I mane to see she comes to no harm.
Eose," he continued, turning again to the
girl, who still stood pale and tremulous
before him, ** go you home, and leave me
to speak wit this man alone !"

But the girl again put out her hand
towards him.

Michael," she said, "sure I can't leave
you here after me ; come with me too ! "

Whoever you are," burst in young
Gregory again, " you shall not stand between
her and me. No one shall ; confound
you, man, stand aside, or I'll make you ! "

I won't stir ; that's your road, sir, this
is hers ! "

*• Then take that ! "

He lifted the cane which he held in his
hand, and struck him across the face. Rose
screamed. Michael struck the cane from his
master's hand, and they closed in a fierce

VOL. III. K

embrace ! By this time the policeman, who
was ever on the track of the young man,
and who had consequently been a witness of
all that had taken place, thought it about
time that he should interfere. He came
forward, and pulled the men asunder.

Hullo ! " he said, " what's all this ? "

This ruffian has assaulted me ! " cried
Gregory.

Are you hurt, sir ? "

No, not in the least."

The man laid his hand on Michael's
shoulder.

"Shall I lock him up, yer honor?" he asked.

But Eose Merton suddenly stepped forward,
and almost threw herself at the
master's feet.

Mr Gregory," she cried, *' no ! no ! "

He hesitated for a moment, then he replied,
—

"No, you may let him go ! I struck him
first, and, after all, I've got it in my power
to punish him in my own fashion. You

scoundrel," he added, turning to Michael,
Rose shall fare no better for your insolent
interference, I promise you ! Goodnight,
Rose."

He kissed the tips of his fingers, and
walked off", while Michael, struggling in the
arms of the policeman, cried, —

The black-hearted villain ; if he dares
to look at Rose Merton again, before God,
ni have his life ! "

Keep still," said the man, holding him
firmly ; " and as for you, my girl " (turning
to Rose), "you'd best be ofi"; sure, you've
caused trouble enough already."

Michael," asked the girl humbly, " shall

I go?"

Yes, go."

*• Then — then, good-night, Michael."

Good-night."

She lingered for a moment, half hoping
he would say more, but he did not, so she
accepted her punishment, and walked quietly
away ; but once she was out of sight and

hearing, she sat down upon the road-side
and cried bitterly.

Michael tried to take the road which
Mr Gregory had taken before him, but the
policeman stopped him.

Come, not that way ! " he said.

** Don't be afraid, I'm cool now ! "

All the better for you ; but all the
same, you'd best get home and sleep it
over'*

During the few days that followed, Rose
Merton neither saw nor heard anything of
her lover. She went to her work everyday,
but when she returned at night there
was no sign of him upon the road ; nor did
he come to the hut, as had been his custom,
to spend a few of the evening hours with
her. It was evident he had not forgiven
her, she thought, and so she sat at home,
watching and waiting — the picture of misery
and despair.

But Rose was wrong. Michael loved her

too well to hold out against her ; but he
had other things to occupy his mind, for,
true to his promise, young Gregory was
punishing him in his own fashion. The
very day following the attack on Mr
Gregory, Michael Jamieson had been served
with a summons for rent, which was only
just due, together with an intimation that
from that day forth his rent would be
raised, which was equal to a notice of
ejectment. He had received them both
without a word of protest, but he began
at once to think what he must do. He
had not much time to lose, since he was
to answer both at the sessions, which were
regularly held on the day of the monthly
fair at Gulranny.

VI.

The Gulranny Fair, which was held on
the first day of October 18 — , was destined
to be a day made memorable to every

tenant of Storport. From dawn the little
village was astir, for nearly all the inhabitants
had to journey to the town, to drive
in their remaining live stock for sale, and
answer the summonses which had been
served upon them. Gulranny lay some
ten Irish miles from Storport, therefore
the foot passengers had to start early, in
order to be there to meet the agent before
the opening of the court. It was quite
nine o'clock, however, when my cousin
Kate, standing at the Lodge door, saw the
agent drive along, attended by his escort
of police, and take the Gulranny road,
and about half-an-hour later Kate was
called to the door again, she said, by
one of the girls, to see the grand car and
pair of horses, running tandem, which young
Mr Gregory was driving into Gulranny.
His mother was seated with him on the
car, as well as a man-servant, and a policeman
in plain clothes. For though, since
the receipt of the warning, no attack had

been made upon young Gregory's life, he
deemed it prudent to keep his bodyguard
in case of danger.

'* During that morning," continued Kate
as she told me the story, " I had to make
a few calls upon my patients. I was struck
by the strange silence aod deserted look
of the village, and a sort of terror crept
over me ; a kind of foreboding, I think, of
what was to take place. After I had paid
my visits, I took a walk round the village,
and noticed the ruins of one or two huts
which Mr Gregory had recently had pulled
to the ground. Upon the ruins of one satan
old man of ninety, staring stupidly about,
as if stunned by the blow which had befallen
him. Upon questioning him, I discovered
that his hut had been converted
into a ruin two days before ; that he was
penniless, homeless, and friendless ; and that
he had nothing to eat but the few potatoes
which the neighbours had given him. I
went to a hut and arranged that he should

be taken in and fed ; then I walked onto
the hovel which was inhabited by James
Merton and his daughter Eose. I found
that Merton had gone to the fair, but Eose
was at home. The wretched room was clean
and neat as usual, and Eose was seated on
the bed mending her father's rags. She
looked sadly pale and worn, and when
I questioned her as to the cause of her
trouble she only cried, and said that it
was nothing. I asked her to come upto
the Lodge and spend the day with
our servants, but she refused ; so at
last, reluctantly enough, I got up to
go, and left her to pass the rest of the
day alone."

Meanwhile what was going on at the
fair ? Among the foot passengers to Gul-fanny
that morning had been James Merton
and Michael Jamieson. Michael, knowing
that Merton had to answer a summons, had
called for him, and proposed that the two
should walk into town together. During

that minute he had been at the hut he
had seen Rose, and the sight of the girl's
pale cheeks and wistful eyes made him
feel bitterer than ever against the man
who had come between them.

They had plenty of company on the road,
but when they got into the town they
found the crowxl immense. The little streets
were thronged with men and women, who
were driving in their last remaining livestock
to be sold for the rent. A little
before noon young Gregory drove in his
tandem, scattering the ragged crowd about
him like so much mud. He drove up to
the door of the principal inn, and alighted.
He took his mother to a private room,
and went himself to the one where the
agent sat. He did not go before he was
wanted. The miserable tenants, dreading
a court of law almost as much as they
dreaded the workhouse, had been driven
to make one last appeal. They had sought
out the agent — laid their cases before him,

and begged him to take half of their debt,
and he, having one grain of humanity in
him, had promised to lay their cases before
his master. He did so, and the master's
answer was, — " No, they'll pay up, or go !
I'll have my land, or the money for the
land, if they die for it ! "

When the answer was given, James
Merton stood amongst the crowd. He
looked at the upturned faces of the people —
he heard their low murmur of heartrending
despair ; he saw a few scalding tears blind
many eyes, and as he was about to turn
and walk away, he heard these words
whispered into his ear, —

** Remember, James Merton, youWe the
man."

During that day, young Gregory strolled
aimlessly about the town, while his mother
was doing her shopping. He was about
to return to the inn to rejoin her at lunch,
when, in passing across a deserted square,
he came face to face with Merton. He

paused, for something in the man's face
attracted him, then, without a word, he was
about to pass on. But Merton stopped him.

Yer honor," he said, respectfully touching
his forelock, " I want one word wit you."

Who are you ? " returned the young
man superciliously. "I think I know
your face."

I'm James Merton, yer honor."

Gregory started.

"Eose's father," he thought, "but for
all that a dangerous ruffian, if what I hear
be true. — Well," he added aloud, " what
do you want with me ? "

*' I've come to speak to you, sir, on
behalf o' the tenants."

The young man shrugged his shoulders
impatiently.

** My friend," he said, " I've heard so
much of that subject lately that it is
beginning to get rather uninteresting tome.
Besides, this is neither the time nor
the place to discuss it. Stand aside ! "

But the man doggedly kept his place.

Only one word, sir. I humbly ask
one word," he said. '' We're starving' —
man, woman, and child."

And serve you right ! you won't go."

"No, sir, we won't go!" cried the man,
his face for a moment lighting up into
positive fury. " We can't be turned out
like brute beasts to die in a foreign land.
We were born here, Mr Gregory, and all
we ask is to be allowed to live and die
here, on the bit o' land we love. You're
rich, sir, and we're poor, and we ask you to
take down the rents that we may have
food. It's not for ourselves we ask it,
but for the wives and little children that
are dying wit want and cold. There be
other masters in the county that would
give in if you would give in, but I know
you are among them that hould out the
hardest."

Yes," said the young man quietly,
'you are right. Had I my will, there

would be no concessions in the country.
I'd starve you into good behaviour ! "

We're starved already, sir ; be merciful.
It hould he better for you ! "

What do you mean ? " said the young
man, turning nervously upon him.

Only this ; our blood's up, and there's
no knowing what we might do if you
went too far ! We are desperate men."

** Desperate fools ! If the law allowed
it, I'd have you whipped into good behaviour
? "

You would ? "

"I would. Good-day."

He turned, and would have moved on,
but Merton clutched him fiercely.

"Stop,' he cried, i've not done wit
you yet."

What ! "

You'd better listen ; you'd better hear
me out, Mr Gregory. Once more I say
it would be better for you ! "

Do you dare to threaten ? "

"And if I do ? I'm not one to threaten
what I'm afraid to do."

The young man turned fiercely upon him,
but for some reason he suddenly changed.

*' My good man," he said, " I must request
you to master your temper, or it
will certainly get you into trouble before
long. And now, in return for your lecture,
let me give you one bit of advice.
If you really want some concession from me,
ask your daughter to plead your cause."

My daughter ! " exclaimed Merton,
staring wildly at the speaker ; " what d'ye
mean ? "

"Just what I say. There, I've heard
enough of your whining ; but, if you really
want concession, send pretty little Eose tome
— and — we shall see ! "

This time he did walk away quietly,
puffing his cigar as he went, while Merton,
who had been powerless to put out a hand
to detain him, watched him with wild and
wondering eyes.

What did he mane ? " he murmured,
gazing at the spot where the young master's
form had disappeared. "Why did he talk
like that o' my Eose, wit that look in his
eyes, and that wicked smile on his face ? I
know, God help me ! His father killed her
poor mother, and now he'd do worse to the
child she left behind. Cold-blooded, pitiless
cur ! why should he live to break more
hearts? He's spoken his own death-warrant,
this day ! "

Early in the afternoon the handsome car
belonging to Mr Gregory was driven round
to the door of the inn. Mrs Gregory — a
tall, aristocratic-looking woman of sixty,
was somewhat astonished at this early departure,
but when she heard that her son
wished for it, she said no more. She was
by no means an estimable old woman, — she
was heartless and cruel enough to the world
in general, — and she had never been kindly
enough to question the cruelties which she

knew were regularly practised on her son's
estate ; but she adored her son, indeed it
was said he was the only thing she had ever
been known to care for.

When, therefore, he gave his orders, she
never questioned them ; and, though she
would fain have stayed a few hours longer
in Gulranny that day, she said nothing, but,
when the car was ready, she quietly and
proudly took her seat by her son's side.

In truth, Mr Gregory had deemed it advisable
to make an early departure from
Gulranny that day ; for, since his interview
with James Merton, and his subsequent
sight of the faces of certain of his tenantry,
he by no means looked forward with pleasure
to the prospect of a dark drive home. But
he said nothing to his mother, — it was also
the fear of frightening her which made him
neglect to provide himself with an extra
escort of police.

Thus they drove out of Gulranny before
the day's proceedings were nearly over, and

certainly before the daylight had even commenced
to fade.

About seven o'clock that night James
Merton, a very weary, worn-out man,
walked quietly into Storport. He was
astonished to find unusual commotion going
on in the village, — certain fio-ures ran hither
and thither, others stood in little groups
about the road, — while around the house
of the landlord gathered a great crowd.
There was certainly something the matter,
and, before going to his hut, though he was
sorely worn out, Merton walked on to discover
the cause of the commotion. He
had made one or two inquiries, and had
learned the fact that the young master
was shot — when he came face to face
with my cousin Kathleen. On hearing
the news, she had hastened down to the
Castle to see if she could do anything
for sirs Gregory — she was now about to
return home.

VOL. Il L

This is a shocking affair ! " said Kathleen,
in answer to Merton s " good day."

They tell me the young master s
dead'' returned the man, looking quietly
at her ; "is that true Miss Kathleen ? "

Quite true," returned Kate ; "he was
shot this afternoon as he was driving home
from the fair ! "

"Was he shot dead, miss — or did he
spake before he died ? "

In recalling this conversation afterwards,
Kathleen remembered the peculiar, half-trembling
eagerness of the man's manner —
at the time she was too much excited to
notice it at all.

No, he did not speak," said Kathleen ;
he was shot through the head, and he fell
dead upon his mother's shoulder. Think
of that ! I wonder she didn't faint or die
with the shock — but she just clasped her
arms around the body — and kept it so
while her frightened groom drove the horses
on to the Castle ! "

But, Miss Kathleen — the man that done
it — didn't they try to catch the one that
fired the shot ? "

"Yes, of course they did," returned
Kathleen, '' and he is very likely in custody
by this time. You see, when the shot was
fired, the horses took fright and bolted —
but, as soon as they could be pulled up,
the officer who was on the car leapt down
and pursued the murderer. I hope it isn't
a Storport boy ! "

"Miss Kathleen," said Merton quietly,
"young Mr Gregory was a pitiless man."

I am afraid he was."

"Then, maybe, after all, perhaps 'tis
better that he should be sent away ! "

Don't say that, James Merton. Look at
it whatever way we will, this murder of the
young man was a cruel and shameful act.
Think of his poor mother, — whatever he
was, she loved him, quite as fondly as you
love your Eose, — and to have him shot
dead at her side — to have his warm blood

scattered over her body — to see him happy
and bright one minute, and the next a
hideous corpse. No, look at it what way
we will, there is nothing can justify that ! "

No," said Merton, looking at her with
a strange, wild light in his eyes ; '' that's
what they all say when the poor downtrodden
creature puts out a hand to
strike the tyrant that has been torturing
poor souls for years ! Say she does
suffer — isn't there others that suffer too ?
Hasn't the poor man got a heart the
same as the rich to feel for his kith and
kin. I tell you, Miss Kathleen, she's a
pitiless woman, just as he was a pitiless
man. What did she care for the cries
o' the starving creatures about her, so
long as her son was safe, and. knew
nought o' sorrow or pain ; and now the
pitiful cry is all for her, not for the poor
creature who has been starved and tortured
into coin' what he's done."

He turned and walked away ; pushing

his way through the crowd, and looking

neither to the right nor to the left, until

he gained his hut. He found the place

empty and in darkness. He lit a 

which was fixed in a bottle stances


ing on the table ; then he sat down on
a form, and covered his face with his
hands. He was trembling all over
by this time — not with cold, but with
some inward sinking of the heart. He
fancied he could hear the low moans of
a suffering woman. . . . The sound of
a footstep coming across the threshold
made him raise his head. Looking up, he
encountered the eyes of his daughter
Rose. . . . She was pale as a corpse . . .
she was trembling violently, — with a low
moan she tottered across the room, and
fell at her father's feet.

What is it, Eose ? " he asked, almost
roughly ; " are yoxi, too, coming to ask me
to pity the tyrant that's been sent to his
last account ? "

The girl raised her head and stared
into her father's face with mingled terror
and pain.

** Father," she said, " don't you know
who done it ? "

The man started, and almost pushed
her away.

How should I know ? " he said.

God, help me ! " cried the girl,
with a fresh outburst of grief. " Father,
it — it was Michael Jamieson — him that 1
love so well."

V 1 1.

Yes, it seemed all too true. On the evidence
of a gun found on the very spot
where the murder was committed, Michael
Jamieson had been seized and handcuffed
as he had been quietly walking home
from Gulranny Fair ; and Eose Merton,
standing on the lonely Storport bog, had
seen her lover dragged past her on his

way to prison. The poor girl, utterly beside
herself with terror and pain, had
shrieked out, and rushed towards him ;
but she was roughly hurled back.
Michael Jamieson, they told her, was
going to be tried for murder — for the
murder of the master of Storport.

This was the story which Rose sobbed
forth, kneeling at her father's knee ; and
as James Merton heard, he became like
one stricken unto death. A fortnight before
he had, with the money supplied to
him by Mrs Timlin, purchased that gun
from Michael, and since then — until that
very day — it had been kept secretly hidden
at the inn. After the fatal shot had
been fired, Merton, eager for self-preservation,
had fled, and forgotten the gun,
which he left lying on the ground.

He had been quite ignorant of the
fact that Michael's initials were engraved
on the stock. But this fact had
been quite enough to implicate Michael,

and, despite his firm protestations of
innocence, he was detained a prisoner.
It was a trying time for Rose Merton,
for somehow or other it got whispered
about that she was the cause of the
affair. Everybody knew that Michael
was not mixed up with the Ribbon boys,
and now that things had gone so far, the
policeman who had been young Gregory's
constant escort, told of the meeting he had
witnessed between Rose and the young
master — of Michael's interference — of the
quarrel — and of Michael's threat to take
the young master's life. So these things
got whispered about, and soon Rose
Merton found she could not even cross
her threshold in peace.

Two days had passed, and Michael still
lay a closely - guarded prisoner in the
barracks. Rose had made one or two
attempts to see him, but had been decidedly
refused.

Meanwhile things were going forward

at the Castle. Tbe inquest had been
held, and at last, with much pomp, the
body of the young master was conveyed
to the family grave. Nearly all the
tenantry had turned out to watch the
grand hearse and coaches go by — but
Merton sat at home. He was looking
with heavy eyes into the fire, thinking
not of the murdered, but of the living
of Michael Jamieson, whom he well
knew was to be tried for a deed which
he had never done.

They'll never hang him," he muttered ;
no, no ; there's no evidence against him,
and he'll come out a free man. If I didn't
know that I think I should give myself up
and tell all ; but no, they'll never take
Michael's life. I've enough blood on my
soul already — enough without poor Michael's.
I can't take bite or sup, and at night I can't
sleep for thinking' 0' what I've done ! "

He shivered all over ; he covered his face
with his hands and moaned. All was quiet

in the cabin ; but he could hear the faint
echo of the murmuring crowd without, and
he knew that the murdered body of the
young master was being taken to its last
home. White and wild, shaking now from
head to foot, he rose, staggered across the
kitchen, and shut the door. But the
sounds still crept in, and above the keening
of the crowd he seemed to hear the
mother sobbing. With a cry he staggered
back, and fell once more into his
seat.

God, why did I do it ? " he moaned.
I might ha' known the deed would curse
me and drag me down ! Sometimes I feel
a kind 0' yearning' come upon me to go and
give myself up and end it all — but I can't
I aren't — for Rose's sake ; yes, and for
the sake o' that other Rose who gave her
to me wit her dying breath. Oh wife,
wife ! you were like an angel on this dark
earth ; and now maybe you're somewhere
up yonder among the good folk in heaven,

mourning' and grieving' over the deed your
man has done ! "

His body was shaken now with sobs and
tears ; he covered his face again, and sat
crying like a little child. While he sat thus
the door was gently opened, and Eose came
in. She had been crying too, for she had
been standing alone on a desolate part of
the bog watching the funeral procession as
it made its way through the village, and
she had been stricken to the heart, believing,
as she did, that she was partly the
cause of the murder. So she had covered
her ears as if to shut out that low moan
which haunted her, and had walked sadly
home. She had pushed back the door
so gently that her father had not heard.
Noting his troubled attitude, she went
sympathetically forward and laid her
hand gently upon his shoulder.

Father ! "

Eh ! what's that ? " cried Merton, starting
wildly to his feet.

It's me, father — Eose ! "

Eose ! my daughter ? " he echoed, staring
at her ; " why — why do you come on me so
sudden ? I did not see you."

He was trembling like an aspen leaf, and
his pale face was bathed with perspiration.
Eose turned quietly away.

Father," she asked presently, " is there
any news ? "

0' what ? "

Of poor Michael ? "

I don't know. Sure I've been too
worried to ask. What are you crying'
for ? Give me my dinner."

Yes, father."

She crossed quietly to a square wooden
chest, lifted the lid, and took out their
dinner, — a few cold potatoes and a bowl of
milk, and set it on the table ; then she
took her seat in a corner of the room out of
her father's sight. For, despite her efforts to
suppress her grief, her tears still flowed fast,
and her throat was convulsed with sobs.

Eose."

Yes, father."

Is there any drink in the house ? "

The girl sadly shook her head. Where
was the money to come from, she asked
herself, when she could not even buy
bread.

Then go and fetch some," he answered
roughly. " No, stay, I'll step down to
Giddy Timlin's myself. Eose," he added
softly, extending his hand towards her,
Eosie, machine, don't take on so. It
breaks my heart to see you. 'Twill all
come right in the end."

Encouraged by her father's gentle tone,
the girl came forward, and, sobbing passionately,
threw herself at his feet.

Oh, father, father," she moaned, *' I
can't help it ! Sure, don't I know 'twill
never come right till Michael's cleared ! "

They'll never dare to harm the
boy!"

Ah, father, 'tis not altogether that I'm

thinking' of," returned the girl ; " whatever
they do to him there'll be the guilt on
him, and he'll never be free o' that ! He's
shed blood, and God will never forgive
him ; and God will never forgive me my
wdeked share ! "

"Maybe, after all, he's innocent," said
Merton, watching her quietly. In a moment
her face was irradiated.

"Oh, if I could only believe that!" she
cried ; " but no, father, all the folk say he
did it ; and isn't there his own gun to prove
that he did ? He's a murderer, father, —
think o' that ! — a man all good folk hate —
a thing scorned and hated by men, and
outcast from God, — with no blessing in this
world, and no hope in the next, — an evil
thing, with Cain's mark always burning on
his guilty brow ! "

The girl had spoken impetuously, in a
wild kind of shuddering horror ; as she
ceased, her father grasped her hand with
a grip of iron.

Rose ! " he almost shrieked, '' say no
more — I can't listen — "

AVhat ails you, father ? " said the girl
in amazement.

You're too hard on the boy. If he
done it in anger or in drink, God may
forgive him yet."

Never, never ! "

It's a lie ! " shrieked James Merton,
roughly throwing her hands aside. " Who
are you, to speak in the name of Almighty
God ? It turns my heart sick to hear you !
Have you got no pity ? "

God knows I have," returned the
girl quietly ; " pity and love too ; and,
when I think o' poor Michael, my
heart bleeds ; but, father, I can't help
thinking sometimes on him that's dead.
It was very cruel, — he was only a boy,
with all the world before him, — and the
murderer's hand struck him down in
his strength before he could even say a
prayer ! "

With a wild moan James Merton fell
back half-fainting in his seat.

** Water," he moaned, " give me a glass o'
water ! "

'' Here, father."

Loosen my neckcloth, Eose. I'm a bit
faint."

With trembling fingers she undid the
kerchief which was knotted around his
throat, and set his collar free. She held
the water to his lips, and with her apron
wiped the cold sweat from his brow, and
gradually he recovered. His face was still
ashen grey, his lips livid, his eyes large and
wild.

Eosie," he said tenderly, " I think
I'll lie down a bit, for I'm clean tired
out!"

The girl put her arms around his neck
and kissed him.

Sit down and take your dinner, father,"
she said.

No, mavoiirneen, I can't eat ; I'm sick

and tired — heart sick, wit all this trouble.
I — I — think I'll lie down on the bed and
rest a bit, Eose. Give me a kiss, machine . "

"Yes, father."

She held up her face towards him, and he
kissed it tenderly.

*' Good-night, my Eose," he said.

"Dear father, good-night."

He gently released her from his arms
and staororered across the floor. Having:
reached the door which led into his little
bedchamber, he paused and looked back.

"Eose," he said, and his voice was
broken, as if with suppressed tears ; " Eosie,
machine, when you were a little child, you
used to fold your hands and say a pretty
prayer your poor mother taught you. Do
you ever pray now f "

Every night, father," answered Eose.

For — for your poor mother — and for all
your friends — "

"And for you, father, too."

Ah, you shall teach me to say it some

VOL. Il M

day, Rose — maybe 'twill make these bad
times mend I "

He turned, entered his room, and left his
daughter in the kitchen alone.

When he was gone, Eose quietly put
away the food which he had left untasted ;
then she sat with folded hands before the fire.

Poor father ! " she murmured sadly,
glancing towards the door of the room
where he lay. 'this trouble's preying
sorely on A^'m, and he's growing thinner
and greyer each day. It makes my heart
bleed to look at him, and to know how
little good I am to help him now, — for I
can't work ; my heart's too full. Day and
night I'm thinking 0' poor Michael. I
can't believe but he did it ; he was so mad
against the young master ; he swore, in my
own hearing, to have his life, and all on
account o' me ! Oh, Michael, Michael ! if I
only knew how to help you ! — if I could only
comfort you in all this trouble that's come I "

She rocked herself to and fro, giving

vent to the grief which was well-nigh
killing her, but which she only suffered to
master her when she was alone.

Suddenly she heard herself called.

"Rose, Rose!"

She started up. It was her father calling
her from the inner room. She hurriedly
dried her eyes, and ran across the floor.

Yes, father ! " she replied, crossing the
threshold of the bedroom, then she paused :
James Merton, fully dressed, had thrown
himself wearily upon the bed, where he
lay in a deep sleep. But his sleep was
troubled ; his breathing was laboured ; now
and again he muttered some words, and
put up his hand, as if to shield himself
from danger.

Poor, poor father ! " murmured the girl.

She went forward, bent tenderly above
him, and gently smoothed back the threads
of silver hair which lay cold and clammy
upon his brow. At that the sleeper moved
again and seized her hands.

'* Eose, Eose," he cried, " don't take on
so, mavourneen, and I'll tell ye all. /
killed the master ! I shot him dead ! — do
ye hear ? — dead, wit Michael's gun ! "

He moaned and turned on his pillow,
but the girl did not move ; she stood, as
if suddenly turned to stone, gazing with
horror-stricken eyes at the haggard face

of her father Presently he moved

and spoke again.

'' Eose," he murmured, *' Eosie, machine,
don't cry or it'll break your poor father's
heart. I never meant trouble to come to
you, and I thought if he was dead, we'd
maybe have brighter times. So I done
it — I murdered him ; and now they say
'twas poor Michael as done that same,
but it wasn't. Michael's a good lad. Eosie,
darling', say a prayer to - night for your
poor old father."

The grasp of his fingers loosened, and
Eose was free. She staggered back and
almost fell. The noise awakened her father;

he started up, rubbed his eyes, and stared
all round him.

What's the matter ? " he cried. " What
have I said ? I thought. . . . Rose, what

are you there for ? ^^ hy do you

look at* me like that ? "

Father ! " murmured the girl, forcing
her white lips to speak, "tell me, is it —
is it— true f "

'true! is what true?" returned Merton;
then with a sudden impulse he extended
his arms and murmured pitifully, " oh,
Rose, Rose — God help me ! "

His arms were still outstretched towards
her, but the girl made no movement to
go to him. She put up her hands as if
to keep him away, and with a low moan,
fell fainting upon the floor.

VIII.

No sooner was the body of the young
master committed to the earth than public

attention once more turned upon the man
who was generally supposed to have murdered
him. Michael Jamieson still lay
in the strong room at Storport barrack ;
for, before being sent to trial, the case
was to be thoroughly investigated by
the magistrates of Gulranny.

Eose Merton knew all this ; she also
knew how important it was that she
should see Michael before his trial came
on ; so at last, through the friendliness
of one of the policemen at the barrack,
she was promised that interview with
her lover which she so urgently sought.

It was the night before the day on
which Michael was to be taken into
Gulranny to undergo his first examination,
that Rose Merton walked wearily
across the bogs towards the barrack.
Having reached the building, she was
admitted, and shown without delay into
the strong room where Michael lay.

Ten minutes. Rose," murmured the

man who showed her in, "and then you
must be off. It's against orders, you
know, to let you come at all, but sure
you'll never spake about it ! "

Never," said the girl solemnly, raising
her heavy eyes to his face ; and the man,
touched to the heart by her haggard look,
added hastily, —

Sure, it's myself that's on duty, store,
and I'm rather deaf, so you may just say
what ye like to the boy, so long as ye
don't overrun yer time. Now hurry, avich,
hurry, for I'm in dread till I get ye away
again, and that's the truth."

The room was a sort of dungeon ;
not unlike a prison cell. It was very
scant of furniture, and its one little
window was secured by heavy iron bars.
Michael Jamieson, who was well liked and
respected by every man in the barrack,
was suffered to remain here without
handcuffs. When Rose entered he was
seated dejectedly on the side of his bed ;

at sight of her face he rose with a joyful
cry and folded her in his arms.

Eose !" he said; "my own darling Eose!"
He kissed her cheek again and again,
and smoothed her pretty black hair; but
the girl said nothing, — she just laid her
head upon his breast and sobbed like a
child. It was the first time she had cried
since she had fainted before her father.

"Eose," murmured the young fellow,
you've come at last ! "

'eyes," returned the girl, stifling her sobs,
I have come, God help me ! "

I was thinking' you wouldn't come at all,
Eose, though day and night I've sat waiting
and watching', thinking' o' nought but Eose
Merton. At every sound I heard I started
up, thinking it was maybe you come at
last, and when the step passed and no Eose
came— I knelt down and prayed. God
has heard me, — you are here ! "

Oh, Michael, do you forgive me ? "

What have I to forgive, mavourneenf

Nay, never hang thy bead. Are you
thinking o' him that's dead ? Poor lad, as
freely as I forgive him, I can forgive you."

But, Michael, when you know all — "

I know it already, Rose — I've spent all
my time thinking' 0' it — and now I see you
were not so much to blame. What was I, a
poor rough lad, by the side 0' the young
master? What was my love to his? You
thought him an honest man, machine, and
when he spoke ye fair you trusted and
believed him. He was rich — 1 was poor —
'twas only the luck that was against us —
no fault 0' yours ! "

Michael, what are you saying ? " exclaimed
the girl in amazement.

Nothing ! Don't mind me, Rose ; thank
God you've come — that's all. I'm to go
before the magistrates tomorrow : the
sight 0' your face will help me through ! "

You're o-oino; to be tried ? "

Yes, Rose ; — for murder ! "

A convulsive shiver passed over the girl's

frame. She covered her eyes with her
hands.

Ah, yes ! " she moaned.

Why do you shrink away? Why do you
hide your face ? Rose, listen to me — you
don't think that I did it ? You can never
think that I As God's my judge, I'm
innocent ! "

'' I know it, Michael— too well ! "

Too well ? "

'ray — too well!" returned the girl in a
low, despairing moan. "Michael, let me
speak. Let me have it off my heart, for it
seems hurrying me into my grave. I know
you're innocent — and why ? — because I've
come straight from him as done the cruel
deed!"

The young man stared at her incredulously.


What ! " he exclaimed ; then he added
eagerly, " speak, Eose — who is he ? "

The girl grasped his arm for support, as
she whispered, —

My — my own father I "

"No!"

Indeed, Michael, 'tis true ! "

'' He killed young Mr Gregory ! "

'' He did ! "

I can't think it, Eose — it seems too
horrible for belief. Why did he do it ? "

He was one of the Eibbon boys," said
the girl in a soft whisper, " and he drew
the blood-marked paper, and was told off todo
the job. Well, he sent the warning, and
though he was mad against the young
master, he kind o' shrank from taking
his life. So he waited ; but things got no
better, and the boys urged him on. At
last it was arranged that he was to do it
on the day of Gulranny Fair. Still he
didn't want to do it — and when he was
in Gulranny he spoke to the young master
and asked him to be merciful to all the
poor creatures in Storport ! "

Yes, Eose, go on ! "

Well, the master was fierce with him ;

said he'd starve every man ; and then he
said something about me ! Father was mad ;
so he took plenty to drink and started for
home. But he only got half way. He
went to the spot where he'd hidden the
gun, took it out, and lay down behind a
mud bank. When the car drove up he
fired, and the master fell dead ! Michael,
he told me all. He's just broken-hearted
on account o' you. 'Twas with your gun
he did it ; you sold it to him a fortnight
ago ! "

'' God help me ; so I did ! "

"And, Michael, this is worst of all —
they've called me as a witness against
you ! Oh ! what shall I say ? what shall
I say ? "

Speak the truth, Eose, every word ! "

The truth ! " returned the girl ; " and if

I do, what then ? You will be free ; but I

shall "have spoken the death warrant of my

own father"

• " That's true ! " exclaimed Michael, aghast.

Oh, Rose, why did you not come to me
before ? "

I could not, Michael. When I asked
to be allowed to see you they refused ; and
even now 'tis Hogan O'Connor that has
quietly let me in."

"Let me think! let me think! Oh,
mavourneen, this is a wicked trouble that
has come upon us. . . . If they should
find me guilty — but no, they can't do that
there be no evidence against me ! "

Oh, Michael, there's the gun ! "

The gun ! " returned the young fellow
dreamily.

Sure enough, dear — 'twas found on
the very spot. . . . Father dropt it in his
haste to get away."

Then, 'tis black against me. Well, we
must trust in God ! "

Michael, what do you mean ? " sid the
girl, clinging wildly to him.

Just this, machine, I want you to remember
when you're in the witness-box

tomorrow, that 'tis easier to die with
an innocent than a guilty mind. I'm
young and strong and can bear a bit o'
trouble, and he is your father. Eose, if
you are brave and silent, thank God, he'll
never come to harm, for there isn't another
soul in the world can spake a word against
him !"

I can't bear it ; it will break my heart ! "

Don't say that, darling' ; to see you grieve
is the hardest of all to bear. Since I was a
bit of a lad I've had but one thought in the
world, and that thought was Eose Merton.
True or false I've always loved you ! "

'* And I loved you Michael, — always,
always 1 '*

I'll try to think it, Eose. I'll try to
forget that aught ever came between us
two. But I don't think I ever loved you
as I love you now. It's worth being here ;
it's worth sorrow and death itself — to feel
as I feel — I think I could die now, free and
glad!"

Michael," sobbed the girl, " for heaven's
sake don't talk of dying ! "

I won't ! I'll try to think all will come
right, and maybe after all it will. Give me
thy hand, Rose ; look in my face and tell
me, come what may, you love me now ! "

I do, I do ! " "^

With all your heart ? "

"With all my heart."

That's enough, that's enough," he murmured,
as he folded her to his breast.

Can you forgive me, dear ? "

Forgive you, Rose ? If you could see
into my heart and read all the love that's
there, you'd never ask that same ! "

Their interview was nearly over ; they
had already far exceeded their time ; the
policeman appeared and said, as gently ashe
could, that Eose Merton must go. Then
the girl felt her weakness returning ; she
clung to her lover.

Oh, Michael, I can't go," she sobbed hysterically
; "I can't bear it ; I must speak ! "

But the young fellow tried his best to
soothe her.

"Keep up your heart, Rose," he whispered
; " ril fight it through like a man, and
take my chance. Don't think o' me, but o'
your own flesh and blood. Remember if
you spake the word that frees me, your
father's a dead man ! "

"Oh! what shall I do?"

Trust in the Lord to make things
mend. Trust in God, Rose, and pray forme."


Then he signalled to the man to take
her ; and poor RosCj half distracted and
broken-hearted, was led away.

How she got outside she never knew.
When she came fully to herself she was
standing on the Storport road, within a
hundred yards of the barrack.

It was a dreary-looking night. At first
it seemed to her that there was no one
abroad, but suddenly she became conscious
of a figure walking along the road a little

before her — the figure of a woman, — tall
and stately and clothed in deep black. Eose
knew that figure well. It was Mrs
Gregory of the Castle — yes, the once proud
Mrs Gregory — old and enfeebled now, and
leaning on a staff*. One moment of hesitation,
then Eose ran forward and clutched
her dress.

•* Madam," she cried in a low trembling
voice, " I want to speak to you ! "

The lady paused ; but Eose could not see
her face, it was covered with a thick crape
veil.

Whoever you are," she answered, " it is
impossible. I can speak to no one ! "

One word ! " cried Eose, '' only one
word ! "

** I do not know you ! "

Oh, madam, you know me only too well !"

The lady raised her veil, and looked into
the girl's troubled face. As she did so her
features hardened ; her eyes glittered like
steel.

VOL. III. N

You here ! " she began passionately ;
'* girl, do you dare ? "

Oh, madam, God forgive me for speaking
to you in your trouble ! I know you've
cause to hate me and mine — ay, more
cause than you know."

Hate you I " returned the woman fiercely;
ay, more than hate. Had I my will you
should hang with your wretched paramour."

Madam, for the love of God ! " exclaimed
the girl, sinking on her knees.

Your face sickens me ; your voice
hateful to me ! Begone, or — or I shall
strike you ! "

She grasped her cane as if she meant to
carry out the threat.

Rose Merton did not shrink ; looking up
quietly, she said, —

"Yes, strike me. Blows would be better
for me, madam, than even kind words ; but
you must hear me."

I will not ! "

*'I ivill speak, if you kill me for it!

Madam, my heart bleeds for you, but you
can't mend one dark deed by coin another ;
and it's murder you're going' to do, in the
sight o' God."

AVhat do you mean r'

Just this. Michael Jamieson never
harmed a hair of your son's head."

Don't speak of it, nor of him ! My
curse — "

Madam, what does the good Book say ?
' Curse not at all.' I'm only a poor girl,
and you're a great lady, but I'm here to
save you from a wicked deed — a deed as
wicked as the one you lay at Michael Jamie-son's
door ! "

I've heard you, Rose Merton, now hear
me. You would tell me that this stitched
creature was only one of many. I know it.
The murder was planned by the Eibbonmen,
and Jamieson was only the instrument !
Silence, and listen ! I tell you I care little
now whether or not this man was guilty
of the deed itself. Even if you could

'prove his innocence, I would not spare
him ! '^

You would not — "

"If I had the power," she continued,
growing more and more excited, " I'd
hunt you all down, you first of all. You
should all hang together ! "

"Don't say that — 'tis not spoken like a
woman."

Then I will speak like a mother — give
me back my son ! "

"Oh, if I could ; it would not only heal
your heart, but lift the load forever off
mine. But I cannot ! What is done is
done, and all I'm here for now is to save
an innocent man."

Begone ! "

I will not go ! What is your grief to
mine % Do you think 'tis only gentlefolks
can feel ? Ah, your heart is hard, and you
forget that poor folk can suffer too. If
you and your son had been a little merciful,
he would be alive now."

When we asked for bread, you didn't
listen. When the mothers and children
were dying for lack of food, you didn't
heed. A thousand homes might be empty,
a thousand hearts broken, and what did
you care ? You had neither pity nor kindness.
You drove men mad, and then one poor
miserable madman took your son's life ! "

The woman rose her height, and pointed
with her hand.

Begone ! " she said, '' you waste your
time and mine. I have only one wish —
never to see your face again ! Only one
regret — that you will not suffer by the side of
the wretch for whom you came to plead ! . . .
Rose Merton, one word more. When my
son fell dead into my arms, his life-blood
flowed upon my shoulder, soaking my
dress with red. I looked and looked at
the mark, until it almost burnt into my
brain. Then, in case I should ever be
inclined to feel pity, I stitched this piece

of red cloth upon iris shoulder, just where
the blood had been. There it will remain,
ever reminding me of my duty, until my
vengeance is complete."

Heart sick and soul sick, Eose raised her
eyes, and saw for the first time that a large
spot of red, like blood, was fixed upon the
woman's shoulder. The sight of it almost
made her faint, and with a sickening sense
of fear upon her she turned away.

IX.

According to the arrangements which had
been made beforehand, Michael Jamieson
was next morning placed upon a car, and,
attended by a strong escort of police, was
driven to the court - house at Gulranny.
The trial had excited popular interest, and
nearly every Storport boy was in town
that day. My uncle and Achill Marry
were two of those who were to decide
whether or not Michael Jamieson was to

be committed for trial. The place where
the investigation was held was a arose
square room, and on this occasion that
portion of it which was allotted to the
public was crammed to suffocation, while
all those who were unable to gain admittance
clustered together eagerly about
the doors. Montrose who had been

o

enabled to obtain seats were Charlie Bingley
and his mother. Mrs Bingley, a jolly-looking
woman of forty, had a special
interest in the proceedings, for since her
life had been threatened, not once but
many times, since she had felt it her duty
to prosecute some ruffians who persisted in
poaching her river. My cousin Kathleen
was also present ; Mrs Timlin, Conolly, and,
most prominent of all, Mrs Gregory, clothed
in the deepest of black, and with the red
mark looking like blood upon her shoulder.
After the preliminaries were gone
through, Mrs Gregory was the first witness
called. She stood like a wx>man

of stone, her features fixed, her mouth
set in cruel determination. She still leant
somewhat feebly upon a handsome ebony
cane, but she gave her evidence in a plain,
straightforward manner, and without a
tremor of the voice. When she was
done she took her seat in court, and
continued to grimly watch the proceedings
throughout the day.

Dt Maguire was the next : he had made
a post-mortem examination of the body,
and told the cause of death. Then came
the policeman who had been on the carat
the time of the murder, who had found
the gun, and who had subsequently taken
Michael Jamieson ]prisoner. He swore to
the gun as the one he had found, but he
confessed he had never seen it in the
prisoners possession. He simply concluded
it belonged to the prisoner on
account of his initials being cut upon
the stock. They were M. J. But he had
something more to say. When questioned

as to what made him connect M. J, with
Michael Jamieson, he told of the meeting
had witnessed between the young master
and Rose Merton — of Michael's interference
— of the struggle — of his threat
to take Mr Gregory's life.

Public interest was certainly awakened
at last, and when James Merton entered
the court, you could have heard a pin
drop. He was haggard and worn — but he
never lifted his eyes from the ground.
His evidence was of little importance.
He knew nothing of his daughter's meetings
with the young master or of Michael's
interference. He had walked with him
into Gulranny on the day of the murder,
but once in the town, they had parted
company, and he, James Merton, had
started for home alone.

Did the prisoner refuse to accompany
you back."

No ; I didn't ask him."

Why ? "

^'Why?" repeated Merton ; "I don't
know why. I wanted to get home, and
I went home."

Did anything occur during your walk
home ? "

'' Nothing. I walked straight across
the bog. When I got to Storport I heard
o' the murder."

On the fair day, had the prisoner a
gun in his possession ? "

"No."

You will swear it ? "

I will swear it."

You know that the prisoner possessed
a gun ? "

No."

One moment. Look at this gun."

The gun which had deprived young Gregory
of life was thereupon handed to James
Merton. For a moment he shrank half fearfully
away — fixing his eyes wildly upon it.

*' What — what's this?" he exclaimed.
*' Why do you bring this to me ? "

sins.

'' I want you to look at it, and tell me
if you have ever seen it before."

He looked at it long and intently — then
he turned away.

No," he said.

"You will swear that you have never
seen it before ? "

Yes," he returned desperately, " I'll
swear it."

You don't know that it belongs to the
prisoner ? "

No."

You will swear you have never seen
him with this gun in his hand ? "

"Yes, I'll swear that too ! "

Merton was ordered to step down, and
now there remained but one witness to
be called ; his daughter Eose. She came
into the court looking scarcely Like a
living woman. Her face was white as
death, her eyes were large and lustrous,
and as they gazed gently around the
court they had in them a strange, wild

wandering look, as if she did not understand
what was taking place ; and, indeed,
she scarcely saw. She was conscious only
of a wild mass of people, in the midst of
which sat a figure robed in black, with a
blood-red mark upon the shoulder. She
felt that the pale face was turned towards
her, and that the pitiless eyes were fixed
upon her as if to read her very soul. She
passed her hand across her eyes, then fixed
them upon the ground.

Your name is Rose Merton."

It is, sir."

"Look at the prisoner; do you know him? "

She raised her head and looked steadily
over at Michael, who stood pale, resolute,
but handcuffed. As their eyes met,
her own filled with tears.

'' Do you know him ? "

I do, sir."

'you were, I believe, engaged to be
married to him."

I was, sir."

But like many another of your sex, you
preferred the attentions of a gentleman.
You also knew the deceased ? "

Rose did not answer. Her pale cheek
had flushed now, and her tears fell fast.

Come, answer my question ! " said the
magistrate sharply ; whereat she quietly
wiped away her tears and replied, —

Yes, sir ; I knew young Mr Gregory."

Intimately ? I believe he was a lover
of yours ? "

Oh no, no ; not that ! "

What ! were you not in the habit of
meeting him ? "

Yes — we — we met once or twice."

You were in his company on the night
of the 16th, I believe?"

'eyes, sir, I was. I went to tell Mr
Gregory I could not meet him any more,
because — "

During that meeting, what occurred ? —
did the prisoner a] :spear and remonstrate
against your conduct ? "

"Yes, sir, Michael came up and threw
off young Mr Gregory, who was dragging
me away."

And there was a struggle between deceased
and the prisoner ? "

They had words, sir."

"And from words they came to blows ? "

Yes, sir," replied the girl, trembling
violently ; " but — it was all my fault ; I
was to blame ! "

Never mind that, but answer me, on
your oath, did you hear the prisoner
threaten to take deceased's life ? "

The girl looked up in terror ; again she
put her hand to her head as if to collect her
wandering thoughts.

'* Oh, sir," she cried piteously, " it was only
a few words in anger, he meant no harm."

Did he, or did he not, use this expression,
' Til have his life ? ' "

Oh, sir, don't ask me — I — I — don't
know!"

A little more questioning, and Rose

Merton, half fainting and wholly distracted,
was forcibly removed from the court.
Everybody present believed that she had
wilfully lied to save her lover's life. The
case was now left in the hands of the jury.
The magistrate summed up, and the jury
returned a verdict of " Not Guilty." So
Michael was set at liberty, though there were
few in court that day, including the jury
who refused to convict him, but believed
that Michael had been very intimately
mixed up with the murder, if he did not
actually commit it.

X.

It is nearly six years ago now," said
Kathleen, 'since that night when poor
Michael Jamieson came back with the taint
of the prison upon him, and yet I remember
it as well as if it were yesterday.
He had always been a favourite in Torpor,
and the news of his release excited

the people almost to madness : bonfires
were lit on the hills, and the villagers
turned out in a perfect crowd to welcome
him home. Michael himself came back
quietly enough, with Eose Merton and her
father — he refused to join in the merrymaking,
but while the shouts of joy were
ringing through the village, he sat beside
the fire in James Merton's hut holding
Rose's hand. The girl was pale and trembling
like a leaf ; she had her head turned
away from him, and she was crying, —

"I can't, Michael, I can't," she said;
don't ask me to do it — I've brought
you harm enough, God knows."

*'Kose, don't say that," returned the
young fellow earnestly ; " or if you will
say it — add that, after all the sorrow and
pain, you mean to give me a little happiness
by becoming my wife ! "

He drew her towards him and kissed
her fondly, and she sobbed out her sorrow
upon his shoulder.

"Ah, Michael," she cried, "you forget
my — my father ! "

"No, mavourneen, I don't forget — but
that makes no difference to me."

Just a week later, Eose and Michael
became man and wife ; they were married
quietly by Father John. Some of the
girls were in the little chapel to witness
the ceremony, for Eose had always been
an immense favourite at the Lodge, and
they would have got up some wedding
festivities, but Eose said no — she shrank
from any publicity ; all she wanted, she
said, was to make Michael happy. So she,
the prettiest and showiest girl in Storport,
was disposed of, and everybody thought
that the tragedy had come to a satisfactory
close.

As soon as popular excitement had somewhat
subsided, the inhabitants of Storport
again turned their thoughts to the question
of landlord and tenant. Everyone looked
VOL. m.

for a new landlord in Storport, for at
the death of young Gregory the estates
passed into the possession of a distant
cousin. As soon, therefore, as he chose
to make his appearance in Storport, Mrs
Gregory would have to vacate the Castle
and take up her residence in a little
white-washed cottage which faced the Torpor
high road, and which had been used
for a similar purpose before.

The people looked forward to the change
in anxiety, hoping against hope for better
times to come. But the news soon spread
that no change was likely to take place,
at least for some time. The new landlord
was in India — he intended to remain
there for many months longer, and in the
meantime he left his aunt in full possession
of the estates.

If things had been bad under the young
mans management, they grew infinitely
worse under the management of his
mother, for she, believing she had been

tricked of her vengeance, looked upon,
each of her miserable tenants as the
murderer of her son. She stalked over
the black bogs, with her face set in
rigid determination. She was for ever
habited in the deadliest of black ; and
she wore that sickening spot of red on
her shoulder.

Her first act was to evict Michael
Jamieson ; and he, knowing the terrible
secret, quietly submitted to his fate.
He removed to a croft on a neighbouring
estate ; then she raised the rent of
every holding, and sent many a man,
woman, and child, to an early grave.

It must not be supposed that this
kind of think; was allowed to q;o unchecked
— a species of civil war commenced,
with grim determination on either
side to fight it through. Periodical
meetings were held in Mrs Timlin's
kitchen — new agents came and went,
terrified by the threats which rained

around them. At last, Mrs Gregory determined
to face the storm alone.

It was on the night of the departure
of the last agent that another meeting
was held in Mrs Timlin's kitchen, and
the men, looking into each other s faces,
asked themselves what they must do.
They knew that their wives and children
were starving, and that during the bleak
winter which was coming on fresh troubles
were sure to arise. The whole village
was being sacrificed to gratify the vengeance
of one woman. Still, after all,
they were men, and they hesitated to
raise their hands. Instead of despatching
the usual death's head and crossbones,
they wrote a letter begging for
mercy, and asking her, for the love of
God, to remember the fate of her son, who
when asked for bread, tendered a stone.

The letter was sent. The next day as
Kathleen was walking through the village,
she came upon a group of men who stood

surrounding Mrs Gregory. She held an
open letter in her hand.

You ask me for mercy ! " she said ;
and I tell you I will show you just as
much as you showed when you murdered my
son. You cowards, perhaps you would like
to murder me, — if so, you can do so. I'm
only a defenceless woman, but I defy you."

Vengeance had come. That same nip-ht a
terrible scene was enacted in a hut close to
the spot where Mrs Gregory had stood.

Ever since the day when the young master
lost his life James Merton had been a changed
man. When Eose married, he went to live
with her, and, in answer to her loving words,
he promised to try and be happy. Yes, to
please Rose, and in the vain hope of bringing
the old smile to her lips, and the roses
to her cheeks, he had made the promise ;
but, for all that, he knew that his days of
happiness were gone. Whenever he looked
at Eose, so pale and sad, his breaking heart

was almost rent in two, and his sorrow w\a&
not lessened when he saw that her husband's
hair was prematurely mixed with
grey. Whenever he walked abroad, his ears
were filled with the wails of the suffering
people, — and the sight of the woman,
black and bloodstained, was for ever before
his eyes.

It was a terrible time, and often, as he
sat alone by the fire, he thought he would
end it all, but for Eose's sake. Oh, if he
could only die ! yet, though he prayed and
prayed, death never came.

The change in him came so gradually that
Rose, who nursed and watched him carefully,
hardly seemed to note it ; but one
day she looked in his face and seemed to
know the truth.

It was one day when she was sitting at
home with him alone, for he seldom went
out now. Rose was sewing, when suddenly
she felt impelled to look up, and she saw
that her father was sitting by the fire gazing

at her. All at once the truth seemed to
dawn upon her; she rose, threw her arms
about her father's neck, and cried, and
kissed him.

Eose," he said, as he gently stroked her
hair; ''Yx^o^v^^'nuichree, you mustn't grieve
'twill be better for you — and better forme,
for I'm just tired out. AVhat's that
the Bible says, mavourneen — a life for a
life?"

Oh, father, don't talk like that ! " sobbed
the poor girl ; *' I — I can't bear it ! "

She fell on her knees before him, took his
hands and kissed them, but, with a shudder,
he pulled them away.

"Don't, Eose," he cried, "they're covered
wit blood ! "

She saw that his eyes were wandering, so
she put her arms about him, and said, —

Father, you're weary ; come with me
and rest."

Best ! " he repeated, gazing strangely
into her face ; "I can't rest — for, when I

lay me down and shut my eyes, I hear
them saying I've done a murder, — and then
he comes, the young master, — and his face
is all covered wit blood . . . Last night, as
I was lying in bed, your mother came to
my bedside ; she was all in shining white,
and she looked at me and said, 'James,
James, what have you done ? ' When I
took her hand, it was all cold and dead,
and she was crying, — why. Rose, you're
crying too !"

I can't help it. Oh, father ! "
"Ah, you're thinking' o' poor Michael —
ah, yes, now I know — they mean to hang
him ; but don't grieve. Rosie, you're a good
girl, and I won't bring trouble to you, — I'll
see Michael righted before I die."

He rose from his seat, and, but for Rose,
he would have fallen to the ground ; she
plot him to bed, and he sank down like one
weary unto death, — for a moment consciousness
returned to him, — he stretched out his
trembling; hands, as he said, —

Ah, Eose, 'twas well said, my heart is
broken ! "

At six o'clock the next morning, Mrs
Gregory's servants opened the Castle door,
and found a man, apparently dead, lying
across the threshold.

It was James Merton.

He had fainted, but was not dead, and,
on restoratives being applied, he recovered
consciousness sufficiently to open his eyes
and ask for Mrs Gregory. The old lady
was called, and when she came, Merton
held forth his hands and cried, —

Mistress, mistress, pray God to forgive
me — / killed your son ! " then, with a low
moan, he sank back and died.

In his hand they found a paper bearing
a full confession of the crime.

Having arrived at this point Kathleen
paused, as if her tale was done. I asked
for the rest.

There is very little more to tell you,
Jack'' she said. " Poor Merton was buried,
and his confession made public. It surprised
no one. Shortly afterwards, Mr
O'Neil, the present landlord, came to Torpor,
and Mrs Gregory removed from the
Castle. Though James Merton was dead
and buried, she never forgave the murder
of her son : it is generally believed
that she incites every act of cruelty and
injustice which her nephew commits ; she
openly defies one ; and all ; she refuses to
have any protection ; and she puts herself in
the power of the very people whom she has
treated like dogs. Yet her very courage
has commanded their respect and saved her
life. Even poor Eose Merton, whom she
continues to persecute cruelly, does not
wish to raise a finger to harm her. Poor
girl, she has certainly suffered enough. I
think she was quite right when she said
that Storport was not big enough to hold
her as well as Mrs Gregory."

Kathleen having promised to assist
Rose, lost no time in keeping her word.
America was certainly the best place for
her to 00 to ; so to America she was accordingly
sent. My uncle and I both added to
Michael's little store of money — while all
the girls turned out their wardrobes, and
managed to find innumerable articles which
were "just the thing" either for Eose or
her little daughter. So the travellers
turned their backs upon the sorrow and
darkness of the old country to look for
brightness, hope, and comfort in the new.

OW chilly the weather is growing,"
I murmured, holding
my trembling hands over the
blaze which I had made in the grate, and
shivering again. " I must get that rascal
Shawn."

Yer honor," said Shawn, thrusting his
head in at my sitting-room door.

sewell, Shawn?"

Would yer honor like to see a funeral ?
'Tis ould Pat Murphy's, the cobbler, that
was a hundred years, or thereabouts. He
died a couple o' days ago, and he's had the
grandest wake ; for I was there myself, on
account of the master given' the candles ! "

Here Shawn came to a full stop, gazed
at me for a few seconds in silence, and then
repeated his question.

'would yer honor like to go?
'Twill be a grand funeral, I'm would ;
and so it ouo^ht indeed : for 'twas time
the old man went intirely to make room
for them that's coming' on. 'Tis only
right that yer honor should go, since
the whole 0' the country mil be there ;
and though yer honor's often been to a
wake and a wedding, sure you've never
been to the graveyard or seen a funeral."

And Shawn was right ; long as I had
lived in Connaught — often as I had made
my appearance at weddings, wakes, or
fairs, I had never once had the curiosity
to go over to the graveyard and witness
the extraordinary process which the inhabitants
of Connaught employed in committing
a body to the earth.

I had seen from afar the small spot
known as the graveyard — a square of

rugged earth it appeared to me, lying secluded
on the hillside, with the barren
peaks of the bog mountains above, and
the sea washing upon the shore a hundred
yards below. I had listened with
interest to the wild stories and legends
connected with the spot, which Shawn
was ever ready to din into my ears, and
for me that had been enough. Whenever
I heard that a funeral service was
to be performed, I religiously kept within
doors ; or, if I must go out, I determinedly
walked in the opposite direction
to that in which I knew the corpse must
be conveyed. So, despite Shawn's pressing
invitation to make one of the riotous
company of that day, I determinedly
shook my head, and commanded him to
withdraw. And yet I could not help
feeling some curiosity about the matter,
and as the door closed upon the man's
muscular figure, I strolled over to the
window and took a peep at the arrangements

which were f^oinp: forward for the
day's fun. At the door of old Pat
Murphy's cabin, which was set on a bog
by the roadside, several hundred yards
from the Lodge door, a good crowd was
gathered, while along the roads, which
crossed and branched off in every direction,
little parties of sixes and sevens
were truro-incr alone; to minnie with the
great stream, and increase its dimensions,
until it seemed to completely surround
the house. To eyes unaccustomed to
such sights it would have seemed that
the whole of the inhabitants of the village
were gathering together to make
merry at some neighbouring fair ; for
the women wore their gayest petticoats
and head-shawls, while some of the men
disported garments of bright variegated
hues. On the preceding night a keen
frost had nipped the land, but as the day
advanced, the air seemed to grow warmer.
The sun rays, falling from a chill grey

sky, were melting the ice from both
causeway and hill ; yet still, upon the
peaks of the distant mountains, I could
see the faint glittering of frozen hail.

'' A capital day for the snipe' I murmured
again, as I returned to my cozy
seat by the fire. " The first breath of
winter seems to put new life into a man.
I shall do my twenty miles to-day, and
feel the better for it. On a clear, bright,
frosty morning, give me the Connaught
bogs."

We'd travel a long way to find their
match, sure enough," put in Shawn, who
during my soliloquy had entered the room
unperceived ; " but yer honor would never
go sporting to-day."

And why not ? "

Every why, yer honor ; sure ye know
*tis ould Pat Murphy's funeral, and if
ye don't wish to go to it herself, 'tis not
like you to be say in' no to me ! "

1 was astonished, and I said so, but at

Shawn's next speech my astonishment
increased.

Sure, I don't care about the funeral
then, if yer honor would but let me go
over to see poor ould Pat brought to life
again."

What ! "

They're latin' the coflBn-lid off in
hopes that the priest, God bless him,
may come in time, and if he does it will
be all right, for then he can raise up
Patrick, and give him the unction, that
his ould body may sheep in peace."

Shaw, are you gone mad?" I asked
at last.

Not at all, yer honor ; sure everybody
knows that he raised up Rose
Monnaghan, on account 0' her dying' without
confession ; and then he got her to
confess, and she died again quiet and
aise, and had a grand wake, and was
buried decently ; and when he did it to
the likes o' her, why can't he do it to

VOL. III. p

ould Patrick, who died without confession',
on account of his reverence been' away ? "

This rigmarole amazed me. I demanded
a lucid explanation from Shawn, and received
only his emphatic assurance, that
there was " devil a word of lie in it, at
all, at all."

"Ask anybody, and ye'll find it's all
true ; ask his reverence," he said, when
he suddenly paused, and added, — '' well,
indeed, maybe his reverence wouldn't own
to it at all. He said himself 'twas ina
faint she was, and when he put the
water on her face, it brought her round
to spake to them before she died."

And between you and me, Shawn, I
think his reverence was right."

Do you, indeed, sor ; well, if you'll
just sheep over to the graveyard to-day,
ye'll see ould Pat Murphy brought round,
if his reverence has a mind to do it."

You think I should ? "

I'm certain sure of it."

Very well then, I'll go. I'll just wait
until the funeral procession has got well
a-head, and then I will take a short cut
to the graveyard by myself ! "

Having o-ratified the wish of Shawn's
heart, and determined to satisfy my own
curiosity, which I must confess was by
that time strongly aroused, I walked again
over to the window, and took another glance
at the people who were still congregating
about the hut.

AVhat a crowd it had become ! the house
was surrounded ; the road was well covered ;
while still from the hillsides, over bog and
moor, and honor the numerous ruoraed roads,
came straojorlinor fio-ures, some of them footsore
from honor travelling, others huddling
their rags about their attenuated frames,
and shrinking from the chilly touch of the
air ; but finally all of them became merged
into the great crowd, as runlets mingle
in the sea. One or two hours passed and
I became restless ; the gradual increasing

of the crowd, the protracted delay, stimulated
my morbid curiosity, and I began to
long for the time to come when this strange
event was to take place at the grave. Not
that I altogether believed what Shawn had
told me, I had heard too many of his legends
for that ; nor did I for a moment imagine
that anything extraordinary would happen
to prevent the interment of the corpse ; but
I did anticipate a peculiar sight, and as
I had determined to witness it, the delay
in doing; so annoyed me. But the inhabitants
of Storport were not accustomed
to quick movements. Slowly the great
crowd increased until the road was completely
blocked, and the mingled voices
of the people reached my ears as I stood at
the open window of my room, It certainly
was going to be " a grand funeral." Men and
women, boys and girls, of all ages, sizes,
and degrees, and from all parts of the country
around, were by that time gathered
together. Some of them carried jars under

their arms ; others drinking-vessels ; while,
to my amazement, others had got creels of
turf upon their backs, as if that too was
meant as a contribution to the ceremony
of the day. At length the crowd made a
swaying movement, and then began to
move in one long, straggling mass up from
the cabin. I looked searchingly along the
lines of grotesque figures, and at length perceived
the coffin, a box of white deal, standing
in the middle of a sheet, the ends of
which were carelessly held by two men. The
crowd moved so quickly, and the road was so
rugged to tread, that the coffin was jolted
and swung in such a violent manner as to
cause the loose lid to fall once or twice
almost to the ground ; but the carpenter who
made the coffin, and now walked beside it,
carrying in his hand the hammer and nails
which would be necessary for the completion
of his work, lifted from the road
a heavy stone and placed it on the coffins
keep it in its place. Again I turmoil

from the window, and crossing over to the

hearth stood with ray back to the fire.

That it would be useless for me to attempt

to leave the house for several hours I knew,

since the funeral party had to cross the

estuary and there was only one boat to

take the whole lot. It would occupy fully

two hours, I reflected, plying backwards

and forwards, to convey across the living and

the dead. So having given Shawn leave to

depart at once, and having had something to

eat, I took up a book to pass the time away.

How long I read I don't know, I only

remember coming to myself with a start

and leaping confusedly to my feet, to find

the fire low in the grate, the day waning,

and the air bitterly cold. I opened the

window and looked out ; there was no living

soul abroad. The waning light of the sky

fell upon the village, lying chill and silent,

with the black bogs stretching ominously

around, but in the air there was the faint echo

of a wild moaning and shrieking which was

wafted to me by the breath of the sea, and
which I knew must come from the graveyard.

I hurriedly buttoned on my coat, and
left the house.

The evening air was bitter ; thick sheets
of ice covered the causeway, and even the
brown bogs were hard and easy to tread. I
made my way quickly ; in half an hour I
had crossed the ferry, plodded over the sands,
and stood upon the brow of a hill looking
down upon the graveyard. But could it
be a graveyard ? It was more like a
scene from the Inferno. Half-a-dozen fires
blazed up, illuminating hundreds of recumbent
figures. Stone jars were tossed about ;
drinking vessels scattered here and there ;
empty creels overturned beside small mounds
of turf. Some three or four men, with bare
heads and arms, worked diligently at a
hole with pick and spade ; others sat
smoking beside the fires ; others had picked
out from the confused mass of stones some
well-known grave, and stood by it, drinking

and shouting between whiles ; while in the
midst of all this stood the coffin, lidless,
with the ashen face of the corpse turned
blankly to the sky. With a shrug of the
shoulders, I descended the hill and entered
the graveyard, the better to view what was
being done. No sooner, however, had my
feet touched the sacred ground than a sickening
odour, which seemed to permeate the
whole air, met my nostrils, and made me
pause. Faugh ! it was like a charnel-house.
I turned my lace to the sea, which washed
upon the sands, a few hundred yards below
me, and its fresh, invigorating breath swept
away the pestilence which seemed to rise
like vapour from the earth. I stepped
forward, and, glancing keenly around, took
in the whole situation. A nearer view
showed me what I had not seen before.
Several figures lying prone amidst the
scattered debris of rocks and stones, snoring
in a heavy, drunken sleep ; others, perched
upon the graves, sat drinking and disputing,

and in their wild excitement almost coming
to blows. Close to the grave which was
being newly made, a woman sat crying over
the skull of an infant, which she had buried
years before, and which had been thrown
out of the earth by the pickaxe, now busily
at work again ; while the shrieks and moans
which were given forth on every side
drowned the sound even of the washing of
the sea. While notions; all this I had been
diligently making my way towards the spot
where the coffin stood, when suddenly my
foot caught against some invisible object,
and I fell. Again came that sickening odour
which had at first offended my nostrils, but
this time it was so strong and so offensive
that it almost made me faint. I scrambled to
my feet, joined the group around the nearest
fire, and having partaken of the whisky which
was so liberally handed round, I returned to
the spot where I had fallen, determined to
examine the ground and discover, if possible,
the cause of the sickening smell. I had

fallen across a square pile of stones, which
was raised some two or three inches above
the ground. By the waning light of the
sky I could see no more, but having possessed
myself of a torch, and looked again,
I opened my eyes in amazement, for the
stones covered a coffin, the other half of
which was thrust into the ground. The
coffin was rotting, the seams yawning, and
down its sides was running a greenish
matter, the odour from which had met
my nostrils, and was now poisoning
the whole air. With a shudder I turned
away, and, taking my torch in my hand,
examined several other graves, some of
which I found in the same condition ;
others, if possible, a little worse. I had
examined the fourth grave when I was
suddenly joined by Shawn, who had been
carousing at the other end of the graveyard,
and who now came up to express
his joy at seeing me there.

Shawn," I said, pointing to the graves,

what on earth induces your people to
bury the dead like that ? "

Like what, yer honor ?

Why, with one-half of the coffin in
the ground, the other half left uncovered
to create a pestilence in the place ? "

"Is it the stones yer honor manes ?
Wei], well, that's a funny way to spake
o' them. Sure, there isn't enough room
for the whole o' them ; the graves is
choked full already, and some o' them,
like Pat Murphy, must make do wit
a little bit o' room."

But think of the consequences of that ;
the odour which comes from the graves
is enough to breed a fever."

The smell is it ? Sure, that comes from
the grass, yer honor ; 'tis a queer grass
that grows here, and they're saying' it hasa
queer charm about it. Och, murder ! "
he suddenly screamed, " boys, boys, here
comes the hogarth ! '"

The effect was miraculous : in a moment

the whole party rose shrieking and
moaning, to their feet, and congregated
in a wild crowd around the coffin,
w^hicli still stood open upon the ground.
Some bore in their hands flaming torches,
which lit up the faces of the crowd,
and the now fast darkening sky. By
their light I could see the priest walking
with long strides towards the newly-made
grave. As he came nearer, the
whole crowd uttered a wild shriek, and
fell upon their knees.

Yer reverence, raise up ould Patrick ;
he died without confession', on account o'
yer reverence been' away, and his soul,
God bless it, will nivir right in peace."

Without a word, the priest walked
quietly up to the coffin and blessed the
dead body ; then he moved to the open
grave and blessed the soil ; then he
spoke quietly to the people.

'Tis not in the power of mortal man
to raise up the dead," he said ; " that

belongs only to Almighty God. Comic,
screw the lid on to the coffin, make haste
to bury the dead, and do not disgrace
the sacredness of the occasion by drunkenness
and riot. Good-night, my dear people,
may God bless your work ! "

Having spoken thus, he mingled with the
crowd, and quickly disappeared.

For a time the whole crowd stood
petrified ; then the carpenter stepped
slowly forward, and began to screw the
lid on to the coffin, and the whole of
the company began moaning and yelling,
while the body was finally consigned to
the earth. I took a seat upon the
hillside, and waited till the work was
over and most of the mourners had
gone away, then I too arose, and took
my departure. It was growing towards
ten o'clock — the sky was studded with
stars, and the moon, full and bright,
poured her rays upon the earth — she
lit up the graveyard, the withered grass

and stones, the grey embers of the dead
fires, the broken jars and the drinking
vessels, the black figures, coiled snakelike
upon the ground in a heavy, drunken
slumber, while from the recesses of the
black hills around came the faint echo
of riotous voices, which proceeded from
the drunken revellers who were making
their way home. I turned to my companion,
who stood beside me, silent and
shamefaced.

Well, Shawn, was I not right ? Had
the priest the power to raise up old
Murphy ? "

Troth, he had thin, if he had the
wish to do it," said Shawn doggedly ;
and I saw that if I argued till the
sun rose, I should not convince him of
his folly in so believing ; so I nodded
good - night," and walked in silence
towards the Lodge.

HEN I passed through the village
that night, I suspected
there must be something wrong.
I saw dark shapes flitting hither and thither
like spirit forms, while my ears seemed to
detect strange sounds of wailing sorrow.
I stood and listened and looked about
but seeing no one whom 1 could

me

question, I decided that the mystery must
be connected with the proceedings of
the day, and feeling tolerably well satisfied
with the explanation, I walked on towards
home.

Here a new surprise awaited me. On

opening the door, and stepping into the
hall, I was met by Oona, pale as a
ghost, and trembling violently.

Oh, Jack ! " she cried, " do yon think
it is true ? "

She took my arm, and drew me into
the dining-room ; where I found Biddy
and Amy, looking pale and frightened
too. Then I saw that Oona had been
crying.

Oh, Jack," she sobbed, as I put my
arm about her, and laid her head upon
my shoulder, " have you heard ? do you
know — but it's too dreadful — it caiPbt be
true ! "

Thoroughly mystified by this time, I did
my best to compose the girls ; then, in
answer to my inquiry, Oona told me
that Conolly had been killed.

Killed ! " I exclaimed.

I think so, Jack," said Oona ; " they say
he was shot on the Gulranny road this evening.
Papa, Aileen, and Nora have ridden

off to the spot where they say he fell, and
Kate started ten minutes a2[o to see if she
could learn anything about it at the barrack."

The news coming thus suddenly upon
me gave me a shock ; but a moment's reflection
served partly to dispel my fear. I
remembered Conolly's former escapades, and
smiled.

'* Don't excite yourselves," I said, as the
frightened girls clustered about me ; " depend
upon it that whoever is killed Mr
Conolly is safe."

But speak as I would, laugh as I might,
I was utterly unable to dispel the awful
depression which had fallen upon the
Lodge. We clustered close together, and
sat down by the fire to await the return of
my uncle and the girls ; and, in answer to
my questions, Oona told me the little that
she knew.

We were just going to have our tea,"
she said, " and were all together in the
dining-room, when Shawn rushed in, as

VOL. III. Q

white as death, and told us that Mr Neil
was shot. Well, we were all fearfully excited,
and papa and Kate were starting for
the Castle, when what should we see but
Mr O'Neil's car, with Mr Oriel on it, dash
furiously past. For a while after that we
could learn nothing — the whole village
seemed to be in commotion — people were
gliding about like ghosts. Papa was on
the point of starting for the barrack, when
'' Michael, the ferry," came up and told us
that as Mr O'Neil had been driving along
the Gulranny road he had been shot at by
some one hidden in a ditch — that he had
fired back at a man whom he saw running
away, and that the man fell dead ! "

'' The man was ConoUy ? "

Yes, Jack, Conolly ! "

Still, I could not believe it ; so I suggested
that before accepting the gloomiest
side of the picture, we should wait for Kathleen's
news.

So we clustered together round the diningroom

hearth ; and, for the first time
since my arrival in Storport, I felt that I
was really among the landlord shooters.
We sat like ghosts in the firelight — saying
little, listening for Kate's footfall, but hearing
only the loud ticking of the clock.
Half-an-hour — an hour passed, and Kathleen
did not return. We all grew restless,
and Oona suQ:2:ested that I should walk
down to the barrack and meet Kate. At
first I refused, being loath to leave the
three girls alone, — but presently my curiosity
overcame me ; I yielded, and after a
secret but anxious embrace from Oona in
the hall, I set out.

It was a dark, cold, gloomy night ;
scarcely any soul seemed to be abroad ; but
again I fancied I heard about me a mixture
of mysterious sounds. Having reached the
hio-h road, I was conscious of figures moving
about me like ghosts in the darkness, but
instead of pausing to inquire the news, I
made straight for the barrack. Here 1

found a little more life — the barrack was
lit up — two policemen, well armed, were on
guard — while around the building lingered
several figures, quite indistinguishable in
the darkness. On mentioning my name,
and asking for Kathleen, I was at once
admitted, and came face to face with
my cousin, who was talking to some
policemen in the hall. Kathleen looked
Tery pale, her eyes were wet, and when
I took her hand, I felt that it was cold
as ice.

"Is it true, Kate ? " I asked, for want
of something else to say.

Quite true," returned Kate tremulously ;
poor Conolly ! " and she hid her face for a
moment, and sobbed.

"Where is he?"

He is here — he was carried straight
here, and will remain till after the inquest
tomorrow."

I should like to see him."

"Very well," said Kate, "you can see

him if you like, Jack ; but I think I'll
wait for you here. I have had one glimpse
of him, and it has unnerved me terribly.
I couldn't stand it again."

Kathleen was certainly terribly unnerved ;
seeing this, I offered to take her home at
once, but as I had expressed a wish to see
Conolly, she insisted on my doing so. One
of the policemen offered to escort me, so,
with a strange sense of sickness upon me,
I walked away.

We passed along a bare, dimly-lighted
passage, and entered a room. The room
was in darkness, but upon my guide advancing
a few steps, and holding up the
candle which he carried, I saw before me
the prostrate figure of a man. He lay
upon a wooden stretcher in the middle of
the room. The sight was so ghastly that
for a moment my courage seemed to be
failing me. At one glance I had recognised
Conolly, changed as he was. He was completely
dressed, but his ragged clothes

were soaked with bonfire and bespattered
with blood — his face had been wiped, but
some of the black which he had used as a
mask still clung to his cheeks and mouth ;
his pale blue eyes were open, and his
teeth were set as if with intense pain.
I gazed for a moment, then with a sigh
I turned away.

On my return to the hall, Kathleen and
I set out at once — both I fancy, feeling
rather glad to be away from the place
where poor murdered ConoUy lay.

** I suppose, Kate," I said, as soon
as we found ourselves alone, " Mr Neil
has committed this murder ? "

No," returned Kate ; '' not Mr Neil,
but a young Englishman, a friend of his,
who was visiting; the Castle, and who
happened to be on the car."

'then it was Mr O'Neil who was
fired at?"

Yes. He received the usual notice
it seems, several weeks ago, and consequently

avoided the Gulranny road until
to-day, when he believed the storm had
passed. The young stranger had been
seal shooting in Gulranny bay, and knowing
the state of the country, he kept
his rifle loaded on the way home. When
the shots were fired, the horse bolted,
and, if Mr Gregory had been alone as
usual, nothing more would have been
known of the affair ; but his friend, who
is a mere boy, got excited, jumped off
the car, ran back to the spot, and shot
Conolly through the heart as he was
trying to make his escape."

Was he alone ? "

No ; there were two with him, I
believe — the police fired on them, but
they escaped."

By this time we reached the Lodge,
and found the diningroom occupied by
an excited group. My uncle, Nora,
and Aileen, who had returned, looking
weary and pained, still wore their riding

/

dresses ; so did Achill Marry, and yoimg^
Bingley ; while Father John, and Dr Maguire,
were bespattered with mud with hard
walking. Most of them were drinking the
grog, of which they seemed sorely in need
while they were discussing, in eager
whispers, the horrible events of the day.

*' Kate," said my uncle, when we appeared,
" can you put us all up for
the night ? We re summoned, all but
his reverence, on the coroners jury tomorrow,
and 'tis late for his reverence
and the doctor to be walking home.

I saw a terribly anxious look come into
Kate's eyes as she said, putting her hand
on his shoulder, —

'' Then bijou are summoned too, papa ? "

Sure enough, mavourneen; they've taken
the young Englishman prisoner, and we're to
say tomorrow whether he's to be tried for
manslaughter or set free."

And which of the two do ye mane todo,
Mr Kenmare ? " asked the doctor.

^' What can we do, doctor ? After all,
the young fellow can't be blamed, for he
did it in self-defence. Poor, poor Conolly !
he was always weak and easily led, and
don't I know he's not to blame either.
The villain that set the whole thing
going, and deserves the punishment, is
talking it over at this moment by his
own fireside."

For a moment there was silence. I
saw Kathleen quietly close and fasten the
shutters, a thing I had never known her
do before. Then she left the room to see
about accommodating her visitors for the
night. The silence was at length broken
by Father John.

And so you really think, Mr Kenmare,"
said he, " that Mr Conolly never fired that
shot ? "

My uncle sighed.

Not at all. Father John," said he. " I'm
certain sure the poor fellow did fire it,
and if he hadn't been shot dead, I believe

he'd have fired another. The second barrel
of the gun he used is loaded almost to the
muzzle, and even now the forefinger of
his right hand is bent, which shows that
he died as he was about to pull the
trigger."

While the conversation was general, L
who realty knew little or nothing of the
subject, held my peace ; but after most of
the company had retired for the night, and
only four of us, my uncle, Kathleen, Oona
and myself were left alone, I asked an
explanation of my uncle's words.

Who do you think," I said, " is at the
bottom of this affair ? "

Before replying, my uncle looked cautiously
round the room, opened the door
suddenly, shut it again, then returned to
his seat.

*' Jack, my boy," he said, speaking very
low, "there isn't a man in Storport but
knows who's at the bottom of it, including
Father John himself. Listen ; there's

one, a Mr Timlin — brother-in-law to Mrs
Timlin, and therefore a kind of relation
to Conolly, who lives in Gulranny. He
is a well-to-do farmer. For years he has
rented a rabbit warren, which lies close
to his farm. A few weeks ago O'Neil took
the warren from him, and shortly afterwards
received sentence of death. It was this
man's gun which was found by ConoUy's
side, and it was this very man who, a few
minutes after the skirmish to-day, galloped
into Gulranny and said that O'Xeil was
killed ! He's a dirty, low blackguard, that
fears the gallows ! He wanted Neil
put out of the way, and he couldn't find
a better man than Conolly to do it ; so he
supplied him with a gun, and plenty of
whisky, and galloped home with the news,
in order to clear himself."

You think that ? "

I'm certain of it ! "

And you could swear to the gun ? "

Among a hundred ! "

Then if that's the case, it's a pity
the man can't be punished."

Do you think so ? "

'-' Don't you ? "

My uncle shook his head.

We couldn't bring poor Conolly back
any way," he said, " so 'tis better to let
it rest."

All that night I scarcely slept ; at seven
o'clock in the morning I was out of the
house, walking with Oona, whom I found
restlessly pacing the gravel before the
hall-door. I took her hand upon my
arm, and we walked through the village
together. Although it was so early, everybody
seemed to be astir, and everywhere
along the road small groups of
men and women gathered talking eagerly,
while the barrack was besieged by a
regular crowd ; the cold feeling of death
seemed to have got in the air, and everybody
was changed ; the people scarcely
looked at us at all ; when they did, it

was with a sullen, sinister look of mingled
fear and dislike. I fancy Oona noticed
this, and understood it far better than
I, for she clung in a half frightened
way to my arm as if to protect me.

We had finished our walk and were
on our way back to the Lodge, when
in passing the barrack gate we suddenly
came face to face with Mrs Timlin. She
looked angry and excited ; she stopped
directly before Oona, and exclaimed, —

The dirty black-hearted rogues. Do
ye know what they've done. Miss Oona?
After murthering poor Conolly, they've
taken Toneyy Timlin and locked him up
in the barrack ! "

What for ? " asked Oona ; " what do
they say he has done, Mrs Timlin ? "

After a defiant stare at me, Mrs Timlin
replied, —

They say he was in wit Conolly in
his plans to shoot the master — bad cess
to him ! but sure they'll have to prove

it ; and there isn't a soul in Storport
would swear away the life of an innocent
boy."

Oona uttered a few sympathetic words,
and we passed on.

At breakfast that morning all the conversation
turned upon the one absorbing
theme. I told of the interview we had
had with Mrs Timlin, and of the news she
gave ; and I fancied my uncle looked
troubled. Again I felt mystified ; I had
imagined that the police had acted wisely
in taking the real offender into custody : —
one glance around the table showed me
that in this opinion I stood completely
alone.

The inquest was to be held early ; —
as soon, therefore, as breakfast was over,
those who had been summoned started
off. I remained behind for a while to
brighten up the spirits of the girls, but
I found it a hopeless business. All their
old liveliness had departed, — and the very

Lodge itself seemed to have been transformed
into the dreariness of a tomb.
Finding myself of so little use to the girls,
I at length turned my thoughts to myself,
remembered the letters which I had received
by post that morning, and instinctively
looked around for Oona. She was nowhere
to be seen. I went up to her room, quietly
opened the door, and there I found her
sitting by her writing-desk with her
face buried in her hands. I fancy
she heard me enter, but she did not
move. I went over, put my arms
around her, and laid her pretty head
on my shoulder.

Oona, my pet, why are you crying ? "
I — I didn't mean to cry, " sobbed
Oona, as she hid her face on my shoulder,
but I went down to see him, and it
nearly broke my heart . . . Oh, Jack, it is
terrible ! "

I held her closely to me, and let her
cry a little ; while my body trembled

through and through as her soft hands
clung to mine ; then I said tenderly, —

*' Oona, I want to talk to you about
myself to-day."

Yes, Jack."

I got letters this morning which
demand my return to town."

I felt Oona start, and I fancied she
crept a little bit closer to me ; but she
said nothing.

I have had a very pleasant holiday,"
I continued, ** thanks to my Connaught
Cousins. I ought to be satisfied, but I
find I'm not ; when I read those letters
this morning, I felt as if they had brought
me sentence of death ! Oona, my darling,
I love you ! "

This time Oona raised her head.

Then you will come back ? " she said.
Oh, Jack, if you love me you will not
leave me long."

"That shall be as you wish, my pet.
But think well, Oona. Could you bear

-D/

to leave Storport, your friends, your horses,
your hammock, your dreams, for me ? "

No," said Oona, smiling a little
through her tears, " I shall not leave
them, Jack. We will always come back
to dear old Ireland once a year, and
I will bring my dreams to London
with me to brighten up your rooms
if I can. Dear Jack, I will try to be
very good to you ; only I feel it is
sinful to feel so happy when I think of
poor ConoUy."

When the luncheon bell sounded, Oona
and I were still sitting by the window
dreaming. We descended the stairs together,
and found a large company awaiting
us in the diningroom. There was
my uncle, and Father John, Dr Maguire,
Marry, and young Bingiey, besides the
clergyman, and one or two other gentlemen,
who were strangers to me. I asked
what they had done.

VOL. III. B

It's all over, Jack," returned my
uncle. *' Of course we've acquitted the
young Englishman, but I believe Mr
Toneyy Timlin is to be tried at Gulranny
court."

OW the next few days passed I
scarcely know. For two evenings
I accompanied some of
the girls to ]airs Timlin's kitchen, and we

mingled

among-st

the crowd which had

collected together to do the last honours to
Conolly. On the morning of the third
day it seemed to me that the whole of
the village had turned out to see the
poor fellow laid in his grave. It had been
a grand wake, and it was a grand funeral,
but I for one was glad when it was over,
thinking that at length popular excitement
would die away. But I was wrong.
When we got home from the funeral, my

uncle's expressive face showed me that
something was wrong. I soon found what
it was. Some words of his had got abroad,
and he had been summoned as a witness
against Toneyy Timlin at Gulranny court.

I've to go in tomorrow, Jack," said my
uncle, " so if you want to see the clearing
up of this affair, you had better come . . .
Shawn, you rascal," he added, " have Lucy
and Jack saddled by nine in the morning,
and see they're in condition for a gallop."

Punctually at nine in the morning the
horses were at the Lodge door, and I, after
having; taken an affectionate farewell of
Oona, mounted Jack, and, accompanied by
my uncle, galloped off along the Gulranny
road. I was in excellent spirits, and anxious
to reach the scene of action, for in truth I
was eager to avenge poor ConoUy's death.

*' At last," I said to myself, " the real
offender will be punished, and poor ConoUy's
death avenged."

On our arrival, we found the court

crammed to suffocation, and Toneyy Timlin,
the lowest looking blackguard I had ever
set eyes on — had already taken his place in
the dock. My uncle, being a witness, was
sent to the waiting-room, but I was permitted
to take my seat in the body of
the court. I watched the proceedings with
interest ; I saw the witnesses enter the
box, and perjure themselves deliberately :
then came my uncle's turn, and I sighed
relieved, thinking, "at last the truth will
be spoken, and a death-blow will be given
to all that has gone before."

My uncle seemed scarcely himself — a fact
which somewhat amazed me, since I knew
that his evidence, though of great importance,
was of the most straightforward
kind. He was certainly not easy in his
mind ; he answered the first few questions
honestly enough ; then the gun, the very
one which poor Conolly had used, was put
into his hand.

Have you ever seen that gun before ? "

My uncle nodded.

I have."

"When?"

Three days ago, at Storport barrack."

Was that the first time you saw it ? "

'' I don't know."

You know the prisoner ? "

"I do."

Have you ever seen him with a gun ? "

"I have."

With this gun ? "

Again my uncle shook his head.

'' I don't know."

*'Doyou mean to assert, on your oath,
Mr Kenmare, that this gun is not the
property of the prisoner at the bar ? "

"No; neither do I assert that it is —
guns are so much alike, I wouldn't swear
either one way or the other."

So the evidence closed, and that very day I
saw the prisoner walk out of court a free man.

Come Jack, my boy," said my uncle,
taking my arm and leading me through

the crowd to the place where our horses
awaited us. " We promised the girls to
get back early ; so prepare yourself for a
good gallop home."

I mounted my horse in silence ; in silence
too we galloped fully two miles along the
road ; then we pulled up our horses a bit,
and I asked my uncle why he refused to
swear to the gun.

"■ You could have got that black-looking
villain out of the way for some time to
come."

"Sure, don't I know it, Jack, and
there isn't a boy in Storport deserves it
more."

Then why, in heaven's name, didn't
you do it ? "

He gave that cautious look about him,
and sunk his voice to a whisper before
he replied.

'' The word they wanted me to speak
would have been my own death-warrant ! "

Good God ! " I exclaimed ;." they would

never dare harm you ! — you must be mistaken
; I can't believe it ! ''

He quietly put his hand in his pocket
and drew forth a piece of paper.

That doesn't look very important, does
it, Jack?" said he; 'but when I received
it last night I knew that if I spoke the
word that sent Mr Timlin to gaol to-day,
you would most likely return to the Lodge
to-night carrying my dead body along with
you. Well, I daresay you think I'm a
bit of a coward, Jack ; perhaps I am, for
the receipt of that paper unhinged me.
If I had only had myself to think of, I
should have spoken out bold, and defied
them all, but I remembered my girls at
home. I pictured to myself what they
would feel, sitting together round the dead
body of their old father, and, for the life
of me, I couldn't speak ! "

At this I could say nothing — I was
thinking of Oona.

Eight o'clock : dinner was over, and
we were all collected in the cozy 
of the Lodge. The girls seemed
a little dull, and even my uncle's jolly
face was somewhat overcast. It was the
last evening of my stay in Storport. Yes,
my visit had in truth come to an end ;
my packages were all done up — most of my
farewells had been said ; and at nine o'clock
in the morning, I should mount the car
which was destined to bear me away.

It was a cold winter night ; outside
the snow was falling heavily, but all was
cozy comfort within. The girls had
donned their brightest costumes, though
they could not don their brightest faces,
and one and all seemed to take intense
delight in calling me " brother " Jack !
In sooth, they hung about me, and so
liberally supplied me with kisses that I
was obliged, in sheer self-defence, to seek
protection from Oona. . . . She was
sitting in a corner of the room, busily

VOL. III. s

at work tying up a package which was
evidently intended for me. When I
went to her, she looked up, half-shyly,
half-pleased, and said, —

There, Jack, they are quite ready."

What are they, dear ? "

Oona frowned.

** Forgetful boy ! — as if you didn't know.
They are my manuscripts — you are to
get me a publisher for them — "

Of course — I haven't forgotten — but,
Oona, I don't mean to have them published
until — "

'' Until—"

Well, until you can put some other name
upon the fly-leaf than Oona Kenmare ! "

Not soon shall I forget the parting
at the door next morning ; with my
uncle's kindly face beaming upon me,
and the girls clinging around me. At
last, with a hug all round, and one
special embrace to Oona, I was off". The

car dashed down the avenue, and out
on to the lonely road. Looking backward
I saw the village, where I had
known so much kindness, and seen so
much sorrow On the roadside, Shawn,
his father, and all his sisters and
brothers, were waiting with many more
to bid me " good - bye." Poor Irish
souls ! As I looked into their wild faces,
and pressed their hands, I thought of
their many virtues, their simple affections,
their deep and cruel wrongs (for wronged
the Irish have been, God knows !), and I
said to myself, with one whose soul was
large with human kindness, though he fell
upon a stormy time, " God bless Ireland ! "

As the car paused on the summit of
the hill, I saw my uncle and the girls at
the Lodge gate, watching me go — and,
standing up with a full heart, I waved
good-bye " to my ** Connaught Cousins."

THE END.

'M

W0/ .

'; y//A

^Uk:i,f'y

€#
