\.,s >.

••h,

svo

'.'■3»

'<.

'■ ,*

'W

•:■. «■ •"'

A NOVEL.

BY

BEATRICE LEY,

AUTHOR OF " A GOLDEN May-BUD," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOLUME L

With seven photo-lithographs hy William Briggs.

LONDON :
BERNARD Quarto, 15 PICCADILLY.

1886.

# # # # #

I have endeavoured to teach through my past life, that this
fair tree Igdrasil of Human Art can only flourish when its
dew is Affection; its air. Devotion; the rock of its roots,
Patience, its sunshine God."

Laws of Fiesole." — Ruskin.

ex

I

<

TO MY PARENTS.

In ilemon'am*

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/fiesolenovel01leyb

ALONG residence in Italy has given me
excellent opportunities of judging of
the Italians — their manners, customs, and
modes of speech. A literary friend, who
knows the Italian peasantry thoroughly, says
the psychology of this book is correct, that
my characters are true to life, and are consistent
types of Italians, and that I have in noway
exaggerated the force of their passions
or the vigour of their language. Indeed,
I have omitted the worst expletives, only
inserting such strong language as women
and children commonly use in Italy. I
have tried, as much as possible, to avoid
introducing Italian words — and I have translated,
as literally as I could, the language
Italian peasants use, thereby giving their
form of speech. I sometimes write thou

and sometimes you, because you is the
word in common use ; thou, a term of
endearment and familiarity. The abbreviation
of names, — such as Sunta for
Assunta, and Catera for Caterina, — is a
very common practice.

I must add, that I have heard of two
respectable women who deliberately planned
to commit murder ; — one with a stone, or
brick : the other, with a flower-pot. The
first of these told me herself how she had
waited with the stone — and she seemed to
perceive nothing extraordinary in the circumstance.
An English murderess would,
of course, be a depraved and wicked
woman, but an Italian murderess is not
of necessity worse than her neighbours.
She is probably only a passionate and undisciplined
child, who has yielded to a
sudden impulse without being half aware
of the sin she committed — and is one of
whom her friends will only say, " Oh, the
stupid!" or "Poor thing!" Natures and
training are totally different in the North
and South, as are the manners and customs.

B. L.

1. INA LAURENCE . frontispiece) 866 page 128

2. PIAZZA OF FIESOLE . . . 56

3. "THE jewellers' BRIDGE" . . 112

4. ANFITEATRO OP FIESOLE 182

INA LAURENCE.

see page 128.)

CHAPTER I

COLOilBA.

SHE was standing alone in a vineyard near
Fiesole — that ancient Etruscan city. It
was a beautiful day in May, on which the sun
shone brightly, and the breeze stirred the
leaves — and everything was replete with life,
and youth, and hope.

She was a beautiful girl, rendered still
more beautiful by her picturesque surroundings.
The sunlight glinted through the vine
leaves, and shone upon her up-turned face
and on her figure and hands ; it was a picture
of quivering lights and shadows. There was
such an earnest, rapt expression in her dark
blue eyes, that she might have been a sweet
little saint absorbed in ecstatic meditation.
And yet, in reality, she was merely thinking

L

of a new dress. The girl was short and
plump, with wavy black hair, pouting red
lips, and very expressive eyes. Her complexion
was a rosy-brown with a glow of rich
colour in her cheeks. A true Italian peasant
maiden of the most refined type.

Her nose and brow were well formed, but
her greatest charm lay in her wonderfully
mobile expression and bright girlishness.

Her eyes had now dropped from the cloudless
heavens, and were turned, with a sigh
of discontent, upon her blue cotton dress.

Chime ! Holy Saints ! to what poverty
am I reduced ! I have only this ugly blue
dress with white spots, and that black rag
for the Teste ; and my cousin JSTicoletta hasa
real silk dress!" And tears filled her
eyes. "It is well to say that ' it is a disgrace
to be a servant ' ; but I do not seethe
shame. I think it must be most interesting
to live in the city, and see all the
grand ladies, and have silk dresses ! Poor
me ! ah, why will not my father let me
become a servant like my cousin Nicoletta ! "

She looked with longing eyes at Florence
the beautiful city that lay in the distance
with its Duomo and many towers

sparkling like jewels through a veil of mist,
and the Arno like a thread of silver, winding
its way over the plains. But Columba
saw not the wondrous beauty of the " City
of Flowers," she only saw in Florence — the
land of sill dresses.

She sat down upon a grassy bank, and
began to build castles in the air. So much
absorbed vas she in this most fascinating
occupation, that she did not hear approaching
footsteps, and started and crossed herself
in terror, on suddenly hearing a voice
speaking to her. Possibly she took it for
the arch-fiend's. " Columba, my beautiful
one, what art thou doing in the podere
(field?"

It was a handsome young peasant who
spoke to the girl. Recognising him at once,
her fears vanished. He was a near neighbour,
a farmer named Bertoldo Fossi, and —
above all, Columba' s prospective husband.

His figure was herculean, but rather unwieldy;
his face handsome, but unintellectual
and sensuous. Yet there was a gleam of
natural shrewdness in his large brown eyes,
and a good-natured smile on his thick lips.
The one elevating quality in Bertoldo's
E 2

nature was the power of worshipping the
beautiful, all summed up in the small person
of Columba Vestries. Bat he could only woo
as the other rough contadini wooed, that
was, in a rough and domineering sort of
fashion. His beloved was not submissive,
and did not like his overbearing manners.

'' Thou art but an idle girl, Columba !
When thou becomes my wife there shall be
no more dreaming with empty hands. Per
Banco ! but you would make an expensive
bride!"

Columba arose; she had been roughly
awakened from romance to reality. She
would have been angry with him for merely
disturbing her; but his last speech made
her actually furious. It was no summer
lightning that flashed from her blue eyes
upon her offending lover.

Thou art but a stupid ox, Bertoldo !
It will be time for thee to count my sins
when I am thy wife — and for that fact
to be accomplished, it needs a hundred
years !"

Bertoldo laughed noisily, much amused by
her anger. An enraged lamb would have
appeared to him more formidable ; he understood

not the latent resistance that may lie
in soft things — the strength of the weak.
To him bodily force was the ruling power.
He was not even superstitious ; his thoughts
were only of eating, drinking, working, and
courting Columba.

*thou art a fool, Columba; but that
is natural, for woman and fool are two names
for the same thing."

Listen to me ! I may be a fool, but I
will never marry thee. If thou wert a wiseman
then thou wouldst not love a fool, and
if thou also art a fool, where would the
affairs of our house be between us ? No !
thou art not for me, oh beautiful young
man ! Far too wise art thou for the little
Columba — and I swear, ' by the blessed
Madonna of the Grape-vines, that I will
never become your wife.' You may beg me
on your two knees ; but my mind will not
change." And Columba ran quickly away.

Bertoldo stood in open-mouthed astonishment,
gazing at her retreating figure. A
doubt entered his mind for the first time as
to whether he really understood Columba ;
but he comforted himself with the axiom
that no man could be expected to fathom

the depths of a woman's folly. So he placed
his broad-leaved Panama hat more firmly on
his head, and trudged moodily back to his
own podere. He had no. doubt that Columba
would marry him willingly, whenever he
chose to ask her father for her ; and as for
old Simonee, he would be overjoyed to get so
rich a son-in-law.

Columba Yestris was only just seventeen,
and she had seen but little of the world as
yet. Vague dreams and longings had begun
to trouble her mind ; but she had not even
learnt to read her own heart, and she was
usually gay and thoughtless as a kitten.
She had always considered Bertoldo as her
future husband, and she felt proud of his
looks, his strength, and his riches. And
it was a pleasure to know that all the other
fair Fiesole envied her her lover. But
she had never asked herself whether she
loved Bertoldo. Moreover, Columba was a
spoilt child, and Bertoldo' s masterful wa^^s
had often irritated her temper. This irritation
had now reached a climax, and she
was deeply offended with the unconscious
Bertoldo. When she left him it was with a
fixed determination that Bertoldo should not

marry her. That idea was evidently a
mistake, and she must look for a richer and
more subservient suitor.

She reached their quaint little farm-house,
and ran through the front door and into the
kitchen. It was a picturesque room, with
bare wooden rafters, clean red brick floor,
red brick oven, and many brass pans hanging
against the walls. A large plaited straw fan
lay near the oven, ready to fan the charcoal
into a brighter glow ; the polenta was
cooking on the fire, but the housewife was
absent.

Columba jumped upon a chair, and inspected
herself in a very small looking-glass
in a brass frame, that hung opposite to a
china receptacle for Holy water. The glass
was Columba' s shrine, and her own pretty
face the saint she worshipped most devoutly.
She smiled conceitedly at her diminutive
reflection : '' Truly, Signor Bertoldo, I am
too good for thee ! "

*' Oh ! thou conceited owl ! It is thus thou
passes thy time ! Take good heed that the
Madonna does not punish thee for such
vanity, by sending thee small-pox or a
squint! "

Columba blushed for shame, and quickly
descended from the chair. Throwing her
arms round lier mother's neck, she silenced
her with kisses.

La Caterina (or Catera, as her friends
called her) was a comely woman of about
forty-eight. She had been very handsome asa
girl, but of a coarser type than her daughter.
Her face looked the impersonation of good
humour, with beaming black eyes, and smiling
mouth. Her forehead was wide and
showed capacity, and her hands and feet had
once been perfect in their symmetrical proportions,
albeit they were now growing a
little too plump. She shook off her
daughter's arms from round her neck, but
spoke to her with a caressing tone in her soft
contralto voice.

'' How ugly thou art, little cake ! Nay ! it
is only the good who are truly beautiful.
Thou shouldst spend more time on thy
devotions, and less in vanity. Take heed
that Saint Peter shut not the Grates of Paradise
in thy face ! He will not heed the beauty
of thy features, but will look at thy little
heart, and if he finds that ugly, then will he

lock the Gates of Heaven, and thou wilt cry
to all Eternity."

'^ Oh, Mamma ! do not scold thy child. I
am much disquieted, and I feel within myself
a great rage. That imbecile Bertoldo has
reproved me until I have become sour as
vinegar."

Caterina's eyes flashed angrily; for, though
she reproved Columba herself, she allowed
no one else to scold her darling ; and as for
Bertoldo, she had always felt jealous of him,
and could not bear the idea of his robbing
her of her little dove. She had never liked
him, and was very much opposed to the match.
It was her husband who was forwarding
Bertoldo's suit. Columba was young, and
had time enough to look about her before
she thought of marriage, and she was a fit
bride for a marquis, in her mother's opinion.

Oh ! the dog thief ! " she muttered between
her teeth, and then aloud added,
And what didst thou say to Bertoldo,
Columba mia?"

I answered that I would never become
his wife. And that is the truth, Madre ; for
I really will not have him ! The Babbo may

scold, or even beat me, but I will not marry
that maledetto ciuco Bertoldo ! "

Caterina smiled, well pleased with her
daughter's resolution. She had always regretted
Columba's ready acquiescence in the
father's plans ; and now rejoiced in this
independence of spirit, feeling proud of her
child's pride. But she was wise enough to
give her a caution.

"-Take good heed, Columba, that thou
say est nothing to the Babbo ; for ' in a shut
mouth flies enter not.' Wait with patience,
and we will find thee a better match; and
then we will tell all to thy father."

'' Yes ! " thought Columba, '' I must find
a new lover ; " and she mentally conned over
the names and qualifications of her numerous
admirers; but, somehow, they all seemed even
less satisfactory than the offending Bertoldo.
She had said she should be a fool if she
married him, so that young man stood a good
chance of proving her one — unless a better
suitor soon appeared.

Old Simonee Yestris was a thriving peasant-farmer
who had money in the savings-bank,
also a house and fields, and a good stock of
cattle. Columba was his only child, and

consequently an heiress. There had been
another baby born long ago, a Httle boy,
whom Caterina had nursed herself and loved
most passionately. Columba was born two
years after her brother, but she was given
over to the care of a bagha (wet nurse), and,
as the mother herself said, she quite wished
the bahia to take the baby away from her,
that she might be left alone with her little
idol, her Carlo. " Yes," she said, " I loved
the child too much, and so God took him
away from me, and left me only the little girl
I had not valued. I repented of my fault
and gave my whole heart to my Columba,
my only joy. I could never do too much to
atone for the neglect I had shown her during
the first few months of her existence."

Old Simonee was a peculiar man; avaricious,
but lazy ; mentally slow, yet fond of gossip ;
a good and affectionate husband, but one
who boasted that he always had his own way,
and was master in his own house. And yet,
in reality, the good Simonee was twisted
round his wife's shapely brown finger, though
she was far too wise to mention this fact to
him, or anyone else. Caterina had but a
low opinion of men ; she thought they were

creatures made to be humoured and petted,
and of little use in the world ; and so she
adapted her strength to the weakness of the
particular man she owned, and thus their
household was ruled in a wise and orderly
manner.

Bertoldo Fossi lived all alone in a farmhouse
opposite the Yestris'. He had long
made up his mind to marry no one but
Columba, for he really loved her. He
thought a wife would be a more pleasant
companion than his old house-keeper Maria,
and, above all, a great convenience from a
domestic point of view. But he told himself
that he had no intention of making a fool of
himself; his wife must bring him a large
dowry, and thus be a help, not a hindrance,
to his worldly prosperity. Old Simonee Vestries
was both avaricious and wary, and as
Caterina was not his friend, Bertoldo saw
that it would be difficult to arrange pecuniary
matters satisfactorily ; he was, therefore,
biding his time, and had not yet proposed for
Columba. He had never entertained the
idea of its being possible that he could marry
any other girl, for where was Columba's
equal ? Certainly not in Fiesole ! He had

never feared her marrying another, for he
knew that no young man in the neighbourhood
could compare with himself in wealth
or personal attractions, and he knew that
Columba was not a fool, and was sure she
could not be blind to her own advantage.

The Italians of " Reality " — unlike those
of " Romance " — are far more prosaic and
matter-of-fact than we imagine ; the romantic
and disinterested among them are the exceptions
that prove the rule. They think a
great deal too much of money and possessions
; but they have the excuse of poverty
to plead. For, in the Italy of to-day, Italian
Jews are the richest citizens ; and exorbitant
taxes grind down the faces of the poor.

Bertoldo was a phlegmatic and stolid
specimen of the Italian peasant — even his
affections had not yet been aroused and he
did not know how to love. He was like a
fine bull, king of the herd, handsome, domineering,
strong — but only an animal.

Columba was better educated than her
lover, for she could at least read and write. It
was not from the parish priest that she had received
her instruction ; for Caterina's religion
was more practical and less bigoted than was

quite pleasant to that reverend gentleman.
Columba certainly went to Mass, but she
said she did not like to think of death, it
was so terrible. She had, however, her
thoughts of the Madonna, and the blessed
saints, and she liked to go to church dressed
in her best clothes, and hear the young men
saying how beautiful she was.

Columba' s teacher was a widow called
Assunta Yalencini ; who kept a small trattoria
(inn) near the end of the carriage-road that
leads to Fiesole. This woman was the
daughter of a Florentine notary, and she had
married beneath her when she took Groan
Yalencini. Though only half-educated in
reality, she seemed quite a learned lady to
those amongst whom she lived. Her friendship
was not easily won, although she was
civil to all; and the villagers said that, '' she
would end by turning Columba Vestries' head,
for she had almost adopted her, and was
educating her ' like a lady." Bertoldo could
only make a cross with a pen as Ms mark,
and was obliged to have his accounts made
up for him ; he was, therefore, rather afraid
that Columba would be spoilt by learning too
much, but, at the same time, he was shrewd

enough to perceive that her accomplishments
would be very useful to him. Columba did
not care for her studies, but she enjoyed the
extra importance her learning gave her.
She would far rather have become a servant,
like her cousin Mcoletta, than have learnt
as much as the Signora Yalencini herself— for
was not Florence a city of delights, which
she had only visited upon grand occasions
under the care of her parents. She thought
herself a very ill-used girl, and so, poor little
dove, she beat her wings against the bars of
her cage.

ROMANCE AND REALITY.

*' T WILL go and make a visit to Signora

1. Sunta Yalencini," said Columba to
her mother, a few days after her quarrel
with Bertoldo.

Bertoldo had not been near her since he
had so grievously offended her, and she told
her mother that he was evidently sulky and
proud. " He thinks he has but to put out
his hand to take me, divine ! but he will
find it empty 1 I am not for such an imbecile
as that stupid Bertoldo ! "

Columba was now dressed in her best, and
standing by her mother's side, telling her of
her wish to visit the Signora Sunta Valentine.

'' You can go, child, although there is
much linen yet to iron. But thou wert not
made for hard work, my little Dove."

Oh, Mamma, do not say such things !
I will work for a thousand years, I promise !
Only let thy Columba visit her mistress, and
she will return as good as a saint, and iron
all the sheets."

Caterina smiled good-naturedly, for she
knew what her daughter's munificent offer
was worth. But Colonia was a spoilt child
and, as the neighbours said, "brought up
like a lady." Whenever the mother's conscience
reproached her for allowing Columba
to be so idle and disobedient, she always
said to herself — '' It will be time enough for
her to work when she is married." This
opinion was quite contrary to that held by
Italian ladies who rarely try their wings
until after marriage. But peasants have so
much hard work to do that they get little
enough pleasure at any time — and certainly
still less after they have a husband and a
house full of children.

Columba now kissed lier mother on both
cheeks, and stepped out gaily into the sunshine.
She went through the poderi full of
grape vines hanging in glistening festoons
from one stunted tree to another — on until
she came to the cypress grove on the

c

Fiesole Road, singing merrily in the gladness
of her heart : —

Santa Maria dei Rampant
Dace mariti a tutti." *

The beauties of Nature did not affect
her; for few Italian peasants appreciate
their beautiful land, except in its bread-producing
character. Columba was thinking
now of the dress she had termed, '' the black
rag," which she had put on for her visit. It
was black with red spots, and she wore her
pretty coral necklace, and a black lace veil
over her head ; for she disdained the usual
peasant head-gear, namely, the silk handkerchief
or pezzuola, and her mother would
not permit her to wear a hat, a fashion
quite contrary to the old peasant customs.
Her cheeks flushed a beautiful rosy red,
and the words of her song rang in her
ears with a distinct significance. Perhaps
the gracious Madonna would deign to
show her her destined husband, and give
her a far finer one than the offending
Bertoldo.

" Holy Madonna of the Grape Vines
Give husbands to us all."

Presently she sat down on a large rock
that over-hung the distant city, with the dark
cypresses forming a sombre back ground to
her pretty meditative figure. She was
adding up the wealth and advantages she
should expect the future sposo to possess —
and there was always this refrain running
through her dream — *' And I shall live in
Florence, and wear silk dresses with long
tails."

Columba knew that she ought not to
linger there, for her mother did not often
permit her to walk alone even such a short
distance as to the Signora Valencini's. The
Italian peasants are most particular respecting
the conduct of their young unmarried women,
and solitary walks are not considered proper,
even for farmers' daughters. And
Columba saw that it was growing late ; for
the shadows were deepening fast, and she
knew that her mother trusted her to go
quickly to the Signora Yalencini's ; and that
the Signora Yalencini with her sister-in-law
Fortunata would see her safely home. Butin
spite of this, Columba still lingered, dreaming
dreams of her future sposo.

She made a pretty picture sitting on that
c 2

rock by the road-side, in a frame of dark
cypress trees. Her eager eyes were fixed on
the sky above, but they saw nothing —
except a beatified vision of her future soothe
sun sank in glowing splendour and the
sky changed to a pale primrose tint, flecked
with rosy pink, and merging into a soft blue.
Florence lay still and misty in the distance,
and a peaceful hush was over all things ;
only the chirp, chirp of the crickets broke
the deep silence.

Suddenly Columba heard a man's footsteps,
and was again rudely aroused from
her pleasant castle-building. She started
with terror as she thought of how long she
had lingered on her way to Signer a Sunta's.
The man walked along the road, up to her,
past her — and as he passed there was a smile
of insolent triumph on his face — it was
Bertoldo ! Hateful, detestable Bertoldo !
He took no notice of her, possibly he expected
her to run after him, and beg his
pardon ! Beg Ms pardon ! He thought to
grieve her. As if he could grieve her ! She
felt that she would rather marry a beggar
than this insulting lover. Oh ! that she
could tear his eyes out ! Her heart was

bursting with rage and mortification, and
some fear too ; for might not the horrid
Bertoldo tell her Babbo that he had seen her
sitting alone by the road-side. Poor Columba
had not the heart to go on. She buried her
face in her hands and sobbed bitterly. It
was a combination of rage and fear that
caused her tears, for she felt sure that she
did not love that bestial, and yet, she had
a secret admiration for his spirit, though
she was quite unconscious of this rebel
feeling.

She was startled again ; this time by a
voice — a voice of most peculiar sweetness
and depth.

Why dost thou cry, my little angel?"

She looked up with glistening eyes and a
face disfigured by passion. But meeting a
pitying gaze, instead of the impudent stare
she had expected, a sudden sense of shame
came over her, and she again hid her face in
her hands.

'' Art thou unwell, most beautiful Signorina?
"

''Oh, no ! Signore'* she faltered. *' I
have only lingered here longer than I ought,
and some one I know has seen me, and I

fear that he will tell it to mj Babbo, who will
most surely beat me." And she peeped at
the stranger shyly from between her fingers.

He smiled at her reassuringly. *' I do not
think thy father will beat thee, Signorina ;
he could not touch one so lovely, except to
caress her."

She had never been paid such a delicate
and refined compliment before. The admiration
of the young villagers was far more
outspoken — and then, this man pronounced
his words differently. Yes ! there could be
no doubt, he must be a real gentleman.
Could he be the husband sent her by the
Madonna in answer to her petition ! She
looked him all over, beginning with his hat
and ending with his boots. He was a middlesex
man with rather a large head, curly
dark hair and moustache, and deep thoughtful
grey eyes. His complexion was sallow, and
his arms too long ; he appeared to have been
intended for a tall man, only that Nature had
forgotten herself at the last moment, and left
him short. Although he was really of the
middle height, his great breadth made him
appear short. His age was about thirty,
and he was dressed like a gentleman. Comparing

him with Bertoldo, Columba decided
that he was both old and ugly. He could
not possibly be her future sposo. She was
unable to appreciate the noble height of his
broad forehead, the benevolence of his mouth,
the thought and imagination in his eyes — the
sense of power that pervaded the whole man.
He also possessed two other good gifts,
namely, a melodious and beautiful voice, and
a smile of singular sweetness. Columba felt
a strangely sudden sense of confidence and
respect for him. Somehow she seemed to
have seen his smile before, to have heard his
voice. He was not like a stranger to her.

*' Permit me to accompany you to your
house, Signorina ! "

This suggestion was overwhelming — a
strange gentleman walk home with her ! For
though he was old, he was not very old.
Why, this was the very thing her mother had
always told her to avoid — and yet — he looked
quiet and serious, and . . . Here a sound
of men singing in the distance interrupted
Columba's thoughts, and solved her doubts.
Better one serious middle-aged man for escort
than half-a-dozen tipsy young fellows.

** Signore, you are too good ! I accept,

with pleasure, your offer. You will render
me a great favour if you accompany me down
to the gate of our podere. God will render
thee the merit ! "

He placed his hand on his heart. " It is
mine, the honour."

What did this " old man " mean by paying
her compliments ! But he looked so grave
the while, that she thought he could not
really mean them.

They walked on in silence, leaving the
noisy singers now far behind them. If only
Bertoldo could see her now ! Columba
thought. But no ! she did not want to meet
him just then, when her heart was already
beating with tremulous throbs at the thought
of her naughty • escapade. She glanced
shyly at her companion, and wondered what
he was thinking about — she also wondered
whether he lived in Florence or Fiesole. He
was certainly a Signore, for no peasant would
have walked so silently by her side. Innocent
Columba little knew that Italian gentlemen
are even more ready than any peasant
youth to talk to and follow the pretty girls
they meet. Columba always walked between
her parents when she went to Florence on

an occasional church Festa ; and beyond a
chance exclamation of " Bella ! " lie had
never been honoured by a gentleman's notice.

*' How beautiful is the evening ! " said the
deep voice by her side. '' Calm and placid
as a dream. The sound of distant bells
alone disturbs the mysterious silence. The
evening is a fit time for thought, for aspiration,
when the soul throbs with fervour and
launches itself into the glories of eternity.
Ah ! there she is — La creature bella banco
vestra ! ''

The puzzled Columba looked curiously for
the 'white-robed lady'; but following the
direction of her companion's gaze, she only
saw — the moon.

'' Ah ! there you are, queen of the night !
You will now disperse all the dark shadows
with your white veil. How the light of the
moon fills the soul with devotion — the sun,
on the contrary, awakes so many complex
emotions that one reasons too much, and
feels too little — but the moon, the beautiful
moon, she is calm and peaceful, and calls
forth a unity of ideas, the love of God and
man." He here looked at the creature bella
walking by his side, and he could not refrain

from laughing at the expression of her face.
His laugh was so hearty and contagious that
Columba laughed too, although she had not
the least idea at what she was laughing.
But the stranger knew that the cause of his
mirth was the thought of how he had been
calmly and determinedly " talking over the
head " of his pretty little companion, whose
face had expressed the complete bewilderment
he had caused her. It was the puzzled
patient look in those beautiful eyes that had
recalled him from his higher flights. He was
not the least offended when she said in an
awestruck whisper : —

'' Tell me, Signore, did you learn all those
long words in a book ? It appears very
beautiful language, but as hard as latin to
understand''

'' No ! Signorina, only a few words of what
I have said are out of a book ; and they were
from the works of Dante, our greatest poet.
Surely, you have heard Dante named? "

Yes ! Signore. But my instructress said
the book of Dante was all about the Inferno,
and too terrible for me to read. Besides, I
never understand Poetry ; there are always
so many long words which have no sense.

Tell me, please ! how could the Signer Dante
write the history of the Inferno ; for it is
certain that he could never have been
there?"

'' You are right, Signorina ! But though
Dante had never beheld the Inferno, he could
imagine it — and he did this so ben, bene* that
one cannot help giving a certain value to his
creations, and receiving with some faith what
he tells."

''I should not have any faith in his
words, for they are all lies — they do not
deserve the trouble of reading them !"

The stranger did not attempt to dispute
this very practical and realistic view of
Dante's works ; for he knew that it would
be of no use. Before he could think of some
new topic of conversation, they came to the
gate of the podere.

*' Happiest night, and good repose ! A
thousand thanks for your kindness, Signore,"
and Columba opened the gate and
passed in.

*' Happiest night, Signorina," he answered,
as he lifted his hat with a bow and
a smile.

Truly well.

Columba tripped lightly through the
podere, and as she walked she thought.
She felt that the brutto vecchio * had behaved
in a most miraculously decorous manner
; for had he not even talked of the moon
instead of her face ! Somehow, in her wayward
little heart there lurked a sense of discontent
at the remembrance of his excessive
delicacy. He had piqued her vanity, and
raised her curiosity, and whatever she might
think of him, she could not easily forget the
vecchio who had " talked like a book of
poetry."

Columba stole into the house quietly by
the backdoor, and going through the
passage, entered the kitchen, where her
father and mother were seated comfortably
eating their supper.

Where, then, is the Signora Sunta, child ?
Surely, she accompanied thee to the house ! "

"I was accompanied until the gate," replied
Columba, evasively, inwardly invoking
the saints to pardon her white lie, and prevent
Bertoldo from mentioning their meeting
that evening. If he did tell of her, she

Ugly old one.

might say that she was then on her way
back from Signora Sunta's; but it would
make a confusion as to hours, and la Sunta
might be questioned ; but she could deny its
being late, and try to put Bertoldo in the
wrong. She sincerely hoped, however, that
the good saints would cause Bertoldo to
remain silent ; for she was far too proud to
entreat him.

Without doubt, Signora Sunta gave
thee a good supper ? "

Poor Columba felt very hungry ; but she
dared not say that she had not had any
supper, for the Signora Yalencini's hospitality
was proverbial. So she told another
fib, and went supperless to bed.

Hastily undressing, she climbed into her
tall bed with its numerous hard mattresses
stuffed with Indian corn leaves. A painted
Madonna in the form of a medallion was let
into the iron-work at the head, and a willow-palm
was tied above it to keep off witches,
devils, and all bad spirits. Columba curled
herself up under the bed-clothes, turned her
face to the pillow, and burst into a passion
of tears. Was she crying at the thought
of Bertoldo's rudeness, or because of her

own disobedience and falsehood ? No ! her
meditations were not of such things.

' Chime ! Unfortunate that I am ! Hungry
as a dog ! What matters a future husband
to me ! Is it not thinking of such vanities
that has occasioned all my ills ? Oh, poor
me ! That I could be such an imbecile ! I
have well deserved my punishment ! And
they had fowl cooked with tomato sauce
that is my favourite piatto!"* And
Columba sobbed afresh, and bit her pillow
with her pretty white teeth.

She was only seventeen, and so ignorant
and unintellectual that hunger had with her
the power to banish all other emotions. All
romance vanished in the face of this stern
reality.

By-and-bye she sat up in bed, and listened
eagerly. Her parents slept in the next
room, and she heard them still talking. She
waited until all was silent, and then she
slipped quietly out of bed, and glided swiftly
down the stairs. Very pretty she looked in
her long white night-gown, with her dark hair
waving down to her knees, and her little

Dish

pink toes pattering unslippered down the
stairs. She went at once into the kitchen,
and, opening the store - cupboard, looked
within. Alas ! what she saw occasioned her
to raise her hand to her head with a gesture
of tragic despair.

Holy heavens ! they have eaten all the
pomedoro ! "

She continued searching in the cupboard,
but her efforts were not rewarded by success
; for she only found a large hunch of
coarse bread, which she carried back to her
room. She sat up in bed, and ate her frugal
supper. Alas ! it was very dry, except
where her tears fell and moistened it. When
she had eaten the last crumb, she lay down
again.

*' Oh, holy Madonna ! It is even so !
Your will is not that I should marry, and
you have visited me with misfortunes as a
sign ! It is well. I will think no more of
husbands, for they are truly ' much smoke
and little roast ' ! "

Thus, the accident of losing her supper
crumbled to ashes the castles in the air
Columba had been buildings. Had she discovered
some tomato sauce in the cupboard,

it is probable that ber thoughts would have
become more worldly and less devout. But
hunger banished Bertoldo, the stranger, the
future husband, silk dresses, all alike from
her mind. And for the present little
Columba determined to have no future husband,
and to take very good care not to lose
her supper again.

THE WAND or Papa Morgan.*

HAD Columba looked back at the young
man she termed old, after she parted
from him at the gate, her vanity would have
been less piqued, and she would consequently
have forgotten him all the sooner for that
reason. He was not looking at the moon then ;
but earnestly watching her receding figure
with eyes full of a passionate admiration. It
was his respectful delicacy that had caused
him to be so ceremonious whilst escorting
her home.

Ah ! little Columba, dove of my heart !
I thought it could be no other than thou —
thou thyself. Pulse of my heart, how
beautiful thouhast become ! Well might I

Fata Morgan, an optical illusion frequently observed
in the Straits of Messina in Sicily, in which, by
atmospheric refraction, multiplied images of the objects
on the coast around appear in the air over the sea.

D

have failed to know thee — my eyes might
have made a mistake, had not my heart told
me the truth."

He leant against the gate, gazing pensively
at the house into which Columba had
vanished. *' Thou knew'st me not, my
beautiful one, and how shouldst thou, since
thou hast not seen me for so many years !
But I — I felt certain it could be no other —
and when I saw thee enter this gate I knew
for certain that it was thou thyself, dove of
my heart ! I would not reveal myself to thee,
for I feared to render thee ashamed ; and so
I permitted thee to imagine me a stranger.
Also, had I told my name, I could not have
contained myself —I should have told thee
my love, and have frightened my little
Columba. God knows I would not offend
my beloved ! She was acting imprudently,
naughtily ; but she is young and modest —
she diverts herself by playing — when she
marries she will become more serious. I
could not have told my love now, so I spoke
to her only of things — and I fear I made buta
bad figure with my long words." And he
laughed merrily. *' Poor little one ! she
could not even understand me."

After musing for some time the stranger
turned to go. By a remarkable coincidence
it was. exactly at this time that Columba was
making such strong resolutions against matrimony,
while he was saying, with his eyes fixed
on the house she lived in : —

'' It is thou, thou my beautiful little angel,
who shalt be my wife ! I will marry no other
if thou wilt not have me ; for I love thee with
my whole heart ! "

In our childhood we most of us dream
of a wonderful fairy God-mother who shall
suddenly appear, and accomplish the impossible
for us. She is the fairy of our earlier
years. Youth has its own especial fairy,
and she is the Fata Morgana — the creatures
of mirages, of vain dreams — castles built on
clouds — beautiful and enchanting to every
sense, but without the basis of reality.

Pure-minded young people who are also
poetical are most especially influenced by the
spell of the Fata Morgana. It is a perilous
enchantment — for the awakening will surely
come, and when it does, who can say whether
this trial shall work for well or ill ? Whether
the mistaken dreamer of dreams shall lose
all faith in the great and good — or whether
D 2

he shall awake to nobler ideals and a wiser
faith.

This young man was now under the spell
of the all-potent fairy, dreaming sweet impossible
dreams, building castles in the air,
and fancying what was unreal to be truth.

Under that spell Columba seemed the
sweetest of her sex, as she was certainly one
of the prettiest. His love was apparently of
very sudden growth, but in the '' Sunny
South " such is often the case. And then
this young man had another excuse for his
folly — this was not the first time he had seen
Columba, although it was the first time he had
seen her as a woman grown. He was a
poet and an artist, wonderfully romantic and
pure-minded, with grand ideals and noble
unworldly thoughts. He had never had so
much as a fancy before this, unless a tender
love for a little girl of seven could be called a
fancy. He had long dreamed of his ideal
woman, so when he found his little sweetheart
a beautiful maiden, he immediately
concluded that she was an embodiment of
his ideal — and, of course, loved her at
once. He endowed Columba with all the
good qualities his fancy could conjure up.

and with the noble soul which this aspirations
had ever yearned to meet. Surely, so
beautiful a form must be the casket of a lovely
mind ! Thus did a clever romantic young
man fall blindly in love, and go to his
home thinking only of Columba. He dreamt
of her all night, whilst she was dreaming of
fowls and tomato sauce.

But he had a slight adventure before he
reached his house, and it was one that caused
him much uneasiness.

In the lane near the Yestris gate he
stumbled against a tall man, who swore at
him heartily, and received his excuses with
a very bad grace. This man entered a
door on the opposite side of the road, disappearing
within the gate of a farm-yard.

'' Ah ! " exclaimed the stranger. " By all
the saints ! I had forgotten his existence. Per
Banco ! I may find that all my hopes are worth
nothing. 'He who makes the accounts without
the host, is obliged to make them twice over'*
He may be already her process. I dared not
ask my mother if Columba was betrothed —
I had a fore-knowledge that I should love
her as soon as I beheld her. Ah ! I was

■^ Italian proverb.

dreaming a sweet dream — but now ! fool
that I was, to think that I could have the
sweet without the bitter. That Bertoldo lives
so near her — brutta bestial ! Is it possible
that she can love one who is so uncourteous !
Were her tears shed for him ! Arch-priest !
if I thought that ! " and he clenched his fist,
"• I could kill'him ! But it is not possible!
So sweet an angel could not be destined towed
a brigand like Bertoldo ! "

And with this thought he comforted himself
as well as he could. But when jealousy
once enters the heart it is not easy to drive
it out again.

Bertoldo was not the least jealous, he was
only cross. Columba was not so submissive
as he had expected to find her ; and he hoped
she would get a good beating for lingering
alone on the road. He also slept that night,
but he did not dream at all.

The stranger dreamt that he saw Columba
coming towards him in a veil of rosy mist ;
she stretched forth her hand to him, and in
it was a poet's wreath. '' I bring thee
honour and joy," she said. But when he held
out his arms to clasp her to his breast, a
dark shadow came between them. He flung

himself on the ground in an agony of grief
when lo ! he felt himself lifted up into the
air. He was lying on a cloud drawn by doves,
they floated away — on — past the silvery moon
higher, ever higher ! — and upon another
cloud floated his beloved, and she smiled
upon him, but floated away. He cried aloud
in despair, and lo ! he felt two soft arms
encircling his neck, and a kiss was trembling
on his lips ; — with a cry, he awoke.

It was day, and the sun was shining in at
his window. What did his dream portend ?
Was it Columba who had kissed him? Ah !
that delicious kiss ! His lips still tingled with
the sweet sensation. It must be a good
omen in spite of the first part of the dream.

He was not sordid enough to compute the
vision by its appropriate numbers in the
'* Book of Dreams," and to choose the said
numbers in the government lottery ; though
many of his countrymen would have done
this. But he could not help attaching a
certain superstitious importance to so vivid
and extraordinary a dream. Surely, it meant
something ! Something affecting him and his
Columba — and it must be a good omen.

And he arose. And thus a new day began.

CHAPTER lY.

THE PROMISE AND THE KISS.

Columba spent the next few days in a
state of unwonted excitement and
anxiety. Bertoldo never came, nor gave the
least sign of his intentions. She wondered
if he would tell her father of her ! She
was also curious about the unknown Signore.
But as her mother required her assistance ina
thorough house-cleaning, she was not able
to go into the village of Fiesole, and consequently
she heard no news.

Columba had been busy all day, and when
evening came she threw a shawl over her
shoulders, and stole out of the back door
on to a little stone terrace level with the
first story, which led down by a flight of
steps to the yard. The front entrance was
level with the ground-floor. The front of
this terrace was formed by a high stonewall
on which Columba kept some pet

flower-pots, and at one side was the flight of
steps. The view from this primitive conservatory
was most extensive, and Columba
often sat there, as her bedroom opened into
the passage near the terrace. She now
brought a chair from her room, and sat down
with her knitting in her hands. But she
soon let her work fall, and began to muse.
Her pretty face was framed by two enormous
pots of lemons. She leant over the wall
and looked with unseeing eyes at the misty
purple peak of Monte Denarii, and Monte
Morello with its rugged steeps, which had
not to-day put on its cloud-cap.* The birds
twittered as they flew home to their nests,
the cows lowed in their shed, and her father
was bringing home the horses. Columba
heeded none of these familiar sounds,
although they unconsciously wove themselves
into her dreams — as sights and sounds so
often do. And when she thought those
same thoughts again she always seemed to
see and hear those peaceful evening sights
and sounds.

" Monte Morello lia suo Capelle." Italian saying.
The cloud-cap indicates coming ruin.

Povera me ! when shall I reach thee, oh
Florence ! — City of mj desires," she murmured.
And this was the refrain of all her
thoughts.

She was aroused from her dreams by hearing
footsteps on the stones of the yard below.
Looking down, she saw Bertoldo. He was
walking along carelessly with his hands
stuffed into his pockets, and his hat very
much on one side. He began to whistle 'madonna
e mobile " — altogether he wore the
air of a conqueror. Apparently he had not
yet seen Columba ; but she knew this was
not really the case. His whistling, his air,
his walk were all meant for her; and her
heart beat wildly with a fierce resentment.
Poor Bertoldo was in reality not half so
guilty as she thought him ; for his actions
were all caused by a mistaken idea of
her sentiments.

He thought she was in love with him,
and only needed to be brought into due subjection
for her own good. He had an honest
belief in his own importance, and he
fancied that Columba agreed with him in
that respect. He must cure her of her
coquettish ways, and it was with this

laudable intent that lie had been keeping
away from her, so that she might learn his
value by missing his society. He had had
no idea of using his knowledge of her disobedience
as a threat to hold over her ; he
had never meant to tell her father. But he
was not the man to kneel to any woman ; he
considered that it was Columba's duty to
kneel to him. And he had no doubt that
she would respect him all the more for his
manly supremacy. Poor foolish fellow ! on
that evening he lost his last chance of winning
Columba's favour.

'' Impudent fellow ! he thinks he can insult
me without my resenting it ! " she thought,
angrily. '' May his soul burn in purgatory !
may he never know a moment's peace for
this ! " She did not leave the terrace ; but
there was an ominous glitter in the dark
blue eyes which were intently fixed on the
approaching Bertoldo.

When he was within speaking distance,
Bertoldo gave a highly theatrical start, and
said unconcernedly : "Oh ! thou art there,
Columba ! "

'' Thou say est so, Signor Bertoldo ! " she
answered derisively.

He gave a real start now, — this was not
the kind of answer that he had expected her
to make. Where was her contrition, her
penitence, her love ! But somehow, her
pretty impertinence made him feel all the
fonder. He now knew that he loved her
very much, and that he was wrong to delay
making her a formal offer of marriage. She
was such a giddy child that he might lose
her from her sheer wrong-headedness. He
quickened his steps, and ascended the
terrace-stairs, and stood by her side.

She did not even stir to look at him,
Surely, never was so foolish, so obstinate a
woman ! He actually felt at a loss for something
to say. For the first time in his life
Bertoldo was shy. The rush of sincere love
that filled his heart tied his tongue, and he
stood silent, shuffling his feet the while. He
little guessed how Columba enjoyed his embarrassment.
At length she spoke.

'' My parents are in the kitchen. Sign ore.
I conclude that it is with them that you
desire to converse."

'* Oh, no ! You mistake ! It is with you,,
camilla, that I would speak," he said
hurriedly.

She turned towards him, and fixing her
beautiful eyes on his face, crossed her hands
in her lap, and sat with an air of roost provoking
expectancy. He lost all his self-possession,
poor fellow. He wished to tell
her how much he loved her, that he would
marry her as soon as she chose, dowry or no
dowry ; that she might always sit with her
hands before her, and be as lazy as she
pleased ; and that he had been a fool and an
idiot to anger her — but he had not then known
how much he loved her. Instead of saying
all this, the unfortunate Bertoldo blundered
out something quite different — a stupid unpremeditated
remark.

What wert thou doing out so late by the
road-side when I met thee ? I have not told
thy Babbo ; but if he knew, would he not
scold thee, Columba ! "

He spoke heedlessly in his embarrassment,
talking for the sake of saying something, and
without the least premeditation or malice.

It was Columba' s turn to start now. With
flushed cheeks and flashing eyes she arose.

'' Menaces to me ! Anima mia ! this is too
much ! Know, you impertinent one, that I
had just paid a visit to my friend, the Signora

Sunta Yalencini ; but it was my misfortune
to find her occupied with affairs of importance,
and I was forced to return home
alone. My shoe hurt me, and I sat myself
down to adjust it ; at that moment you . . .
But ! Cospetto ! why do I tell this to you,
you — ugly toad ! Madonna care ! How I detest
you ! My affairs do not concern you ; you
are not my relation, thanks be to heaven 1
Good evening, and good-bye."

She turned to go ; but Bertoldo stopped
her. Her last words had changed the spirit
of his dream. He could not understand how
she had failed to comprehend his true feelings
; for, because he had been thinking such
loving thoughts, he had imagined that she
must divine them, and he utterly failed to
perceive that his stupid words might bear an
unpleasant construction. Her sudden anger
seemed like giving a blow in return for a
kiss, and his spirit smarted under the cruel
wound. He had turned pale with anger as
she spoke, and when she had ended, he seized
her roughly by the arm. As she struggled
to free herself, he shouted.

Ah ! little witch ! I believe you not.
Your words are all lies 1 I will tell thy Bamboos

thee, and thou shalt be beaten as thou so
well deserves ! Ah ! little viper, did I not see
that beccero ! that evil thief, lurking near your
gate ? Without doubt, you were waiting for
him when I met you in the evening. May an
accident alight on you both ! Little scorpion,
diavoletta ! Fool, imbecile ! " and he emphasized
each word by shaking her violently.

This access of jealousy was sudden, and
as fierce as it was sudden. But Columba
thought that Bertoldo must have seen her
with the stranger, and have been brooding
over his jealous doubts for all these days.
She told herself that she hated him, this bio
rough man ; and yet — she knew that he
looked very handsome with that fierce
expression on his face. And he was grandly
strong and masterful. Poor little thing ! she
felt both cowed and miserable.

Oh ! for the love of God, do not quite
murder me, Bertoldo ! "

Thou deserves it ! " but he loosened his
rough grasp, and seeing how pretty her pale
face looked, with tears glistening in the large
blue eyes — he added with passionate pleading
'' Oh ! Colombina bella, I love thee too
much ; I will give thee my word of honour

that I will tell nothing to thy parents — I will
do this on one condition ! Ah ! my beautiful
Columba, I know that thou lowest me, me
and no other ! Let me but take one kiss and
I will give thee that promise. But one kiss,
to pay for a sacred promise."

A faint colour flushed her cheeks on hearing
his words; for Columba had always been
chary of her kisses, and she was also well
aware of the significance that would be
attached to this particular kiss. Suddenly
an idea flashed across her mind — it was, that
she could now revenge herself upon Bertoldo
and also get the promise from him. Yes ! he
should give his kiss ; but that was the first
and last he should ever give to her !

Swear upon this cross, in the name of the
blessed Virgin, that you will never tell my
parents that you saw me seated alone by the
road-side — swear this, and you may take the
kiss ! "

He swore on her cross an oath too sacred
to be broken, whatever might happen afterwards.
Then Columba turned up to him a
set white face, and permitted him to kiss her
passionately. Her lips moved not, they were
drawn into curves of stern resolution.

After she had permitted Bertoklo to take
his kiss, without saying a single word, she ran
into the house, locking the door after her.

Bertoldo walked home in a most blissful
frame of mind, thinking to himself: '' I
knew that she meant to have me in the
end ! She is only a little more capricious than
other women. And who shall say that she
has not reason to be so ! For is she not more
beautiful than all. To-morrow I will ask old
Simonee to give her to me for my wife. Ah !
blessed night! I have now won my Columba."

He grew quite poetical in his ardour ; for
love has power to inspire the most sluggish
brain with a spark of its divine afflatus.

As for Columba, the first thing she did
when she reached her own room was to wash
her face energetically. And as she rubbed
it angrily, she said : '' Odious kiss, thou art
gone at last ! But I have won ! He thinks
I will become his wife. Ah, no ! it needs a
thousand years 1 He will find, the fool, that
I admire not his ugly face. Ah, ha ! he has
sworn to me, and I have made of him an
Cassino. I will marry the first rich man that
asks me, and the Signor Bertoldo shall dance
at my wedding ! "

E

Plessis.

rpHE next morning, at about twelve o'clock,
JL when Signora Caterina was busily engaged
in cooking the dinner, her husband
entered the kitchen, wearing an air of
conscious elation.

Simonee was a short man, with a large
nose, restless black eyes, and a particularly
unpleasant falsetto voice.

*' Congratulate thy husband, oh, Signora
Catera ! He has accomplished a good
deed. Know, that thy daughter is about to
become a wife ! "

I am not quite certain of this good
deed; but I am certain that I shall not
congratulate any one when I lose my
Columba ! There is no husband deserving
of so great a treasure, and it is more than
certain that he exists not among thy
friends ! " she replied sharply.

Simonee snapped his fingers contemptuously.


"Ah! You women always make an
objection to everything. All the world
knows that you are dying for matrimony
as soon as 3'ou are taken out of the swaddling
clothes, and yet you always speak thus.
Che ! but you are all donkeys ! Thou wilt
deserve little good, oh, wife ! if thou canst
not feel delighted at the prospects of thy
child. Listen ! oh, stupid cricket ! There
is a rich young man who is willing to take
the girl without any dower ; he is quite
content to inherit at our death. Ah !
woman, is not that good fortune ? WitJioid
any dower ! "

'' Good fortune ! Yes, for those who think
but of the soldi ! " she answered, sarcastically.
" I think first of the welfare of my
child, of her happiness ; my little dove, my
only one ! Who is this fine sposo thou hast
found ? — for I have not yet heard his name.
Thou thickest that to give no dower is so
good a thing that even the meer idea has
made an idiot of thee ! "

Thousand devils ! Fly not out at me
thus ! Alas ! the women will never hear
E 2

reason. ' Who tries to straighten the legs
of a deformed dog gets on but badly.'
Thou shouldst respect thy husband — he is
thy master and thy superior," said Simonee,
trying to appear stern and majestic, but
speaking in a voice that was only a quaver
of shrill sound, and drawing up a form that
was but stumpy and insignificant. " I was
about to tell you, most impatient of women,
that our Columba's future husband is
Bertoldo Fossi ; he has really warmed
now, and has become most passionately in
love, and is ready to consent to anything I
wish. Fool that I was, to promise to give
our Columba a stock of new clothes and
linen ; he might even have taken her without
the correct."

'' Thou miserly old brigand ! Thou
causes all my patience to escape. So, it is
elms thou wouldst give tby only daughter !
I blush for shame at hearing thee ! "
Caterina was more angry with her husband
than she had ever been in all her life before.
And she handled the saucepan in an ominous
manner, as though she meant to fling the
boiling contents at the head of her offending
Simonee. He evidently expected this to

lapped, for he edged nearer to the door, and
spoke in a more conciliatory manner. Trying
to make his voice tender, he subdued
it to a slate-pencil squeak.

'' Signora Catera, thou wrongs me. I ant
a father /'^ and he waved his arm melodramatically.
" My heart is very tender,
and I ever consider the happiness of our
daughter, even before mine own. I tell
thee that Bertoldo has informed me that
his love is returned by our Columba. They
understand each other, those two."

I do not believe it ! Our Columba is
too modest to show her heart to a young
man before he has asked her in marriage from
us. And also, I knoiv that she loves him
not, for she has often said so. Arch-priest !
I will not consent to this marriage unless
she tells me she desires it. Thou hadst
better not try to thwart me ; for I will be
worse than a demon to thee, and thy house
shall be without any comfort. Remember,
oh, Simonee Yestris, I brought thee three
thousand lire ! "

Simonee was quite crushed by this rebuke,
although he rebelled in his secret soul ; but he
dared not openly resist, so he said, sullenly: —

Thou art a long-tongued woman, 
(horrid Caterina) ; but, as thou wilt
have it thus, thus it must be. Call the girl,
and ask her what thou wilt. Though, I
must say, such behaviour is against all
reason and custom — and our neighbours will
consider us two fools." But he added,
brightening. '' However, I do not believe
that our Columba will be so great an imbecile
as to remain obstinate, and throw
away so beautiful a destiny."

Our Columba resembles not thee, thou
horrid old miser ! Thou cares only for the
money. It is ever the same with a man :
his first neighbour is himself. See here ! I
will call the child, and she shall answer
you," said Caterina, resolutely.

But when she did call, she called in vain ;
for her daughter was nowhere to be found,
either in the house or garden. Caterina was
much annoyed by Columba's inopportune
absence ; but she returned resignedly to
her cooking. In this she showed herself
a wise woman, for a spoilt dinner would
but have served to increase her husband's
ill-humour. She found that he had gone
away when she re-entered the kitchen, for

he had not chosen to await his daughter's
coming.

"Ah ! Little Colombamust be out in the
fields, stupid girl ! But she will certainly
return for her dinner. Poor me ! life is ever
thus ! Trouble — and trouble ! " and she
sighed as she stirred the soup.

All this time the truant Columba was
enjoying the sweets of stolen pleasure.
She had slept little that night, and had arisen
in a restless frame of mind ; it was not
caused by shame at having deceived Bertoldo,
but by fear of the possible results of their
interview. Her lover's unusual ardour
suggested the probability of his not waiting
much longer before he asked her father for
her. She dreaded a domestic storm, and,
like a little coward, kept out of the ways
At the same time, she had no fear of being
forced to marry against her inclinations; for
she knew that her mother would always stand
by her, and be her firm and powerful ally. But
the idea of a disturbance was disagreeable to
her, so she thought it best to remain out of
the way for that morning at least. She had
dressed herself with particular care, even
pinning a few spring flowers near her throat ;

and lie had slipped quietly out of the house
whilst her good mother's back was turned.

After rambling in the fields, she walked
on to the road and up to Fiesole, where she
entered the old church with its quaint
sombre interior. Caterina's religion was
practical and sincere, but Simonee was in truth
an Atheist, like many of his countrymen.
(Columba, always went to Mass, and she
admired the pictured saints and liked to
wear her Sunday clothes, but that was all
she comprehended on the subject of religion.

She did not care to confess that day,
because she knew that she would have some
real faults of which to tell, and she preferred
bewailing imaginary sins, which the indulgent
old Padre Curate was always willing
to condone. She did not derive any special
comfort from muttering a string of words
she could not understand ; but she told her
beads as in duty bound.

The church of Fiesole is very old, particularly
quaint, dark and picturesque.
There are several of the works of Nine da
Fiesole in it, as well as other antiquities.

There was a germ of religious feeling in
Columba's heart, and she felt the happier for

kneeling to pray in God's house — though
she did not understand the Latin prayers
she repeated, for once she really did pray
for the Madonna's help. But soon the sense
of devotion and solemnity wore off, and her
restless eyes wandered round the church
seeking for some object of interest.

In a dark corner, leaning against a pillar,
stood a young man; he made not the least
pretence of praying, but looked about him
eagerly. Every now and again his glance
travelled to the face of Columba, and rested
there admiringly, but respectfully. Evidently
he did not wish to annoy her by a
rude stare, and yet he could not help looking
at her. When she left off praying, her eyes
also wandered round the church, and met
the gaze of those admiring eyes. She
blushed and bent closer over her beads ; buta
shy smile dimpled the corners of her
mouth. She would not look back at him,
no ! most certainly not ! She was out
playing the truant, and she must behave
with strict propriety. There could be no
harm in going to church ; but it would be
very wrong to encourage admiration there.
Yes ! it was certainly the strange gentleman

who had seen lier home on that memorable
evening. It was rather embarrassing meeting
him again, but nevertheless Columba
did not regret it, for his eyes told her
that she was not forgotten, and she dearly
loved to be remembered. He had talked of
the moon, but he had admired her ! After
saying the requisite number of prayers,
Columba rose from her knees and walked
towards the church door.

There were only a few old women and
children kneeling in prayer that morning;
for the men generally reserve their devotions
for church festus, when they stand
about and look at the pretty women
who come to Mass dressed in their best
clothes.

Columba nodded to a few acquaintances,
and then walked quickly out of the door and
into the Piazza (the square). She heard a
man's footsteps behind her, and she knew
who was following. Her heart beat loudly
and she quickened her pace. She stopped
for an instant in the Piazza to look around —
and lo ! he was standing beside her* He
still held his hat in his hand, and addressed
her in soft and respectful tones.

Plessis. 59

'' Signorina, can it be true that I am quite
forgotten ? "

"No! Signore' she faltered. 'but dome
the pleasure not to speak to me or follow
me. I am walking alone, and my Mamma
lias not given me permission to do so, therefore
I must act with judgment. Persons
might observe us together and tell my
parents. Actio, Signore ! " and she darted
quickly away from him.

The young man did not attempt to follow
Columba; but he smiled tenderly as he
watched her retreating figure. He walked
to the wall of the Piazza and looked down
upon Florence with dreamy eyes. It was a
clear day, the sky bright blue, and the distant
city glistened in the sun. You could distinguish
each building in the glow of golden
light. But the stranger heeded not the
view ; he was saying to himself : —

'' Is she not like her name, little startled
dove ! But she is also a truant dove, I fear.
How I loved her for her pretty modesty
when she firmly but sweetly repulsed me.
Ah, holy Heavens ! how I love her ! I must
make a visit to la Caterina Yestris very
shortly, and thus get some speech with my

beloved. She is like the pink in that song
that says — ' She is beautiful, she is beautiful,
and Jcnoivs it notes "

And he began to sing '' E Yezzosa si la
Rosa' in a rich baritone.

'* How I should like to dress her in satin
and velvet — she would outshine all the great
ladies of the city; for her colour is like a
rose, whilst theirs is pale as dough. Ah,
little sunbeam, dove of my heart 1 may it be
my fortune to call you wife ! "

At length he roused himself with an effort,
and wended his way home.

When Columba parted from the stranger,
she walked quickly across the Piazza, casting
furtive glances around her, for she had hardly
expected that her commands would be so
literally obeyed.

I will not return to the house yet. Who
knows whether that pig of a Bertoldo is not
there."

She now turned down the broad carriage
drive that is called the new road, though her
own house was on the narrow and steep Ia
Vecchia Fiesolana. The trattoria of la Valens

was on this broad road, and not very far
from Fiesole, as, going from the village, one
passed it soon after its more ambitious neighbour
— the Aurora. The little inn was in a
garden embowered by grape-vines. Small
tables stood under the trees laid in readiness
for expected guests. The whole place was the
very picture of a silvan paradise. Columba
entered at the wicket-gate and walked in
through the house-door, the first not being
locked and the last standing open. There was
a big watch-dog keeping guard ; but, though
ferocious and terrible to strangers, he was
very friendly to Columba, and jumped out to
meet her as far as his chain permitted,
wagging his tail vigorously the while, and
lolling forth his tongue, anxious to caress
her.

She walked down a long dark passage
straight into the kitchen, where she knew
the mistress of the house would be.

Presiding over the pots and pans was an
enormously stout woman, who waddled upto
Columba, and, catching her in a capacious
embrace, kissed her warmly. This was the
Signora Sunta* Yalencini.

Short for "Assunta."

Oh, lamb of my heart ! It is long since
I beheld thy beautiful face ; I have wished
for thee often ; for I have most excellent news
to tell thee, my beautiful one. Sit thyself
down in the parlour, Colombina, and I will
come to thee as soon as possible. But I
must first show them how to cook the roast."

Columba did as she was bidden, and,
walking to the little parlour, seated herself
there, and waited patiently. This parlour had
blue and orange paper, green chairs with
stiff straight backs, and magenta curtains.
A large coloured print of Victor Emanuel,
and another of the Battle of Solferino, hung
on the wall. A wax image of the Virgin,
under a glass shade, stood on the table in
the middle of the room, and a vase of paper
flowers in the window. Columba knew the
parlour well, so she would soon have wearied
of contemplating its beauties, but her
patience was not long put to the test, for
the door opened, and Signora Yalencini's
sister-in-law entered the room.

Fortunata Yalencini cherished a grievance
against her godfather because he had given
her that name ; for the poor woman said it
vas a mockery of Fate — she should by rights

have been called Fortunate.* Lie was a
small, thin woman of about forty, with a
long sharp nose, glassy grey eyes, a small
thin-lipped mouth, and blackish even teeth.
Her complexion was sallow, and her expression
gloomy and discontented. She
thought her figure remarkable and her face
beautiful, and was careful and neat in her
dress ; for she had by no means given up the
idea of finding a husband. Her figure was
certainly youthful in its slimness, but that
is all that could be said in praise of her
charms. She said that she suffered from
nerves, and all imaginable pains and aches,
considering herself a delicate martyr and
her sister-in-law a robust worldling. The
unfortunate-one was a bigoted Catholic, as
the religious observances of that creed furnished
the sole vent she could find for her
love of excitement. Poor stout Signora Sunta
was in reality far more delicate than her
wiry little sister-in-law, and she was truly
religious in a quiet way ; but she was as
good-tempered as Fortunate was sour, and
as silent as Fortunata was talkative, there-unfortunate.



fore the unfortunate-one generally managed
to get lier own way in the house in spite of
the superior intelligence and education of the
Signora Sunta.

"Well arrived ! How goes it with you,
Columba ? Thou hast come at last. I am
nearly worked to death, and the wind has
got into my head, and I feel the nerves all
all over me 1 Ah, how unfortunate am I,
fragile as glass ! But I murmur not, for it
is the will of the blessed Madonna ! Hast
thou heard about our Plessis?"

She talked on quickly without even pausing
for breath, when suddenly a soft, fat hand
was placed before her mouth and stopped
the flow of her eloquence.

No, truly ! Fortunata, it is I who must
tell la Columba our news. Thou must not
steal my pleasure."

Fortunata began to grumble, and went
grumbling from the room, and they heard
her go grumbling to herself all down the
passage and into the kitchen.

Signora Sunta smiled. '' It is her manner,"
she said, good-humouredly. She now sat
down in a chair opposite her young visitor,
and began to tell her news.

Thou remembered my only child, my
own Plessis, Columba, — and how he left
Fiesole ten years ago ; thou wert but a child
of seven years, but he was a handsome young
man aged twenty. He used to play with
thee, and call thee his little wife, dost remember
? He went to Venice, there to learn
how to make the mosaic and to work in
gold ; and, as they gave him a good appointment,
he could not return here, although
it was the desire of his heart. He waited in
the hope of making a fortune ; but for that
it needed many years more than ten. And
I — I did not like to leave the trattoria to
go to him, although my heart cried out for
my boy. But I knew well that his fortune
would take long to make ; so I hoped to gain
some money myself, that I might be able to
invite him to return to me, to live like a gentleman.
For my Plessis was not born to
keep a trattoria. He was ever as obedient
as I could wish ; but I knew it would break
his heart to force him to act against his
inclinations. Plessis is a true genius,
with much talent and learning. He is a
clever jeweller, and also a painter and a
poet. Therefore thou seest, Columba, we

F

both worked with patience, I here and he in
Venice, and we both sighed in vain for ten
long years. Sometimes I feared that it was
the will of the Holy Virgin that we should
never meet again. When, lo ! my sister,
who had married a rich jeweller in Florence,
died, and her husband died soon after — and
in their Will everything was left to my
Plessis, their godson. Ah ! Sabina mia,*
I could cry for the joy that is in my heart.
God knows, I mourn my dead relations — and
many masses shall be sailor their two souls —
but I cannot help feeling a sense of felicity, a
happiness greater than I can express to thee,
little Columba. He has returned, my beautiful
son ! And he has become a gentleman, both
learned and clever. But he is not proud, for
he says, ' Mother dearest, I am still one of
the Fiesolani, this little village is dearer tome
than all the world beside.' And ah !
how much he loves his old mother ! My
son, my beautiful son ! Yes, in a short time
we go to Florence, there to live above his
shop ; and I shall sell the trattoria, as weare
rich for life now. Is not this a

Child of mine.

true joy ! Beloved of my heart, kiss thou

me

"

And the impulsive woman cried on
Columba's neck glad tears of heartfelt thankfulness.


The return of her only son was a great
blessing to the Signora Sunta, and she was
glad to relinquish her inn-keeping ; for that
occupation had always been distasteful to
her. The return to her native city, Florence,
was also a delight to which she looked forward
and it was the last drop that filled to the
brim her cup of bliss.

Columba was thinking earnestly, so much
pre-occupied by one particular train of
thought that she failed to recognise the
identity of the stranger with her old friend
Plessis. She immediately jumped to one
conclusion — without doubt, Plessis was the
future husband intended for her. She never,
for an instant, mistrusted her power to win
him. There was a certain practical directness
in her thoughts, mercenary though they were.
She thought not of what the man might be
in himself; his position, riches, and, above
all, his shop in Florence, were the only things
she cared for in the matter. She concluded
F 2

that her patron saint must have put it into
her heart to run away from Bertoldo, on
purpose to give her to this most suitable
destiny (destined one).

'' Is he changed ? " she asked, although
she hardly knew what she was saying.

'' Yes, much. He has become such a handsome
gentleman, like my own father the
Impiegato.* Thou wilt like him much,
Columba."

I do not know anything of gentlemen,
except . . "began Columba; but she ended
abruptly, with a bright blush at the thought
of what she had nearly said.

*' Except what ? Colombina, my beautiful
one! What gentleman dost thou know?"
And the stranger stood beside her, smiling
down on her.

Oh ! " she cried, and blushed crimson,
hiding her face in her hands.

Thou hast frightened her, ugly son ! "
said his mother.

'' I — I — did not know that it was you,
Plessis," faltered Columba. But she stole
a sly glance at him through ber fingers.

Government official.

"Yes, Columba, it is I," he added, byway
of a lucid explanation.

Signora Sunta looked very much puzzled.

'what are you two saying? Have you
met before ? "

'eyes," replied Plessis. And he added,
in answer to an imploring glance from
Columba : " We met just now, in the
church. I wished to tell Columba who I
was; but she flew away from me like a bird.
I intended to visit la Signora Caterina this
very evening."

Columba was right. She did well to be
so modest," said his mother, approvingly.
"A well-behaved girl converses not with
strange young men."

Columba felt rather guilty in her heart as
she listened to this praise. If the good
Signora had only known how naughtily she
had lingered by the road-side that other
evening ! She noticed a mischievous twinkle
in Plessis's dark eyes.

It rejoices me to hear that thou wert in
the church, Plessis. I had feared that thou
wert altogether an infidel," said his mother,
sadly.

It was now Plessis's turn to feel ,

but he answered truthfully :
Oh, I went in there to — to "

Certainly not to pray, Signore," interrupted
Columba, wickedly.

'' No, not to pray ; I was not going to
pretend that. I do not believe what our
priests teach, although I am not without
religion myself, as I love my Bible and my
Grod. But I went into the church just now,
because it amused me."

''Oh, thou sinful creature!" said his
mother, reproachfully.

It is to be feared that Columba did not share
the mother's horror — that she was not half
so much shocked as she ought to have been
by Plessis's candid avowal. For she guessed
ivy he had entered the church; and felt sure
that he had followed her in. Everything
seemed suiting itself to her desires, and she
now decided that Plessis was by no means
an old man. Thirty was not old age, it was
only five years more than Bertoldo's age.
Alas ! Bertoldo, her troubles and duties, were
all alike forgotten. She thought but of the
delightful present, and the still more delightful
future. She gave way to wild
mirth, coquetting with Plessis and caressing

his mother alternately. And, when they
asked her to stay to dinner, she never gave
a thought to her poor mother's anxiety, but
accepted the invitation unhesitatingly. She
and Plessis wished to eat their dinner on
one of the tables under the trees ; but
Fortunata refused to consent to so wild
a proposition. She said the wind would bethe
death of her out there. So they sat in
the guests' parlour, in honour of Plessis ;
for on ordinary occasions they dined in the
kitchen.

How merry they all were, and how entertaining
Plessis was, and how melodious was
his laugh ! Columba began to perceive that
there might be other advantages in her
future lot besides the goods and money.
Plessis was very clever, and certainly a real
gentleman; he would be a husband to feel
proud of. He was so attentive and polite to
her, treating her as though she were a great
lady. He would never be rough and cruel,
like Bertoldo ! Yes, she was well content
with her future husband.

The other two women could not fail to
perceive that a courtship had begun, and,
though the mother might feel some gentle

regret at the thought of losing the first
place in Plessis's heart, she was far too
unselfish to wish to mar his happiness ; and
Columba was the daughter-in-law she had
long desired. So she smiled benignly on
the youthful pair, and was content to subside
into the back-ground.

Fortunata was the only one who watched
the young people with evil eyes. Even her
withered heart had been softened by her
nephew's persistent good-humour and his
courteous manners. But she had never
liked Columba, and the idea of a young
wife reigning supreme in the Florentine
house was as the waters of Mara to her.
For she had hoped to be first herself — the
mother and son were both so easy-tempered
that she felt quite able to manage them ; but
Columba was quite another sort of person !
So she looked at them spitefully. And, when
they had but half finished dinner, she was
the first to perceive a figure walking up
the garden, and to announce, in triumphant
accents :

'' Comme mai ! (How ! never !) columba,
see ! There is actually thy mother
come after thee."

Alas ! her bright dreams all vanished, and
poor Columba was recalled to a sense of a
very unpleasant reality, as she walked out,
shamefacedly, to meet her mother.

Fortunata felt genuine delight as she
turned to her nephew, who arose with
deep vexation on his face, and said : —

Oh, mother, we forgot to send to tell
her parents ! And now she will go away.
The pleasure of our dinner has quite
vanished."

THE INVITATION.

Santa YALENCINI hurried out impulsively
to greet her friend. She found
her standing with her daughter's hand in
hers, and a very grave expression on her
round good-natured face.

I have something of importance to say
to my Columba. Will you permit us to go
together into the parlour ? "

'ego, then! Signora Catera, thou art
welcome! But I take it ill that thou shouldst
ask this permission ; for thou knowest that
all my house is free to thee."

''Be not offended with me ! I meant no
ill. But friend, I fear that I interrupt thy
dinner ! I must not detain thee. My
naughty Colombina is here without permission,
and I must have speech with her.
When thou hast dined I pray thee to join us

and then I will recount to thee the whole of
this affair."

The mother and daughter went together
into the little sitting-room, and Signora Sunta
returned to her dinner. She felt curious
and mystified, and would have really preferred
the conversation to precede the dinner.

Fortunata was seated at the table waiting,
and not attempting to conceal the malicious
pleasure she felt. Poor Plessis was pacing
up and down the room like a caged lion.
He thought himself passionately in love —
passionately, though it was a pure and ideal
passion. It had not yet acquired that noble
intellectual element which is necessary to
constitute a deep and lasting affection. And
it was more than doubtful if his love for
such a girl as Columba could ever become
an ennobling virtue. Time could never reveal
to him a kindred soul, or similar desires
and aspirations in the being he fancied he
loved. At present he idealised her, and saw
her through a halo of poetry and romance.
He was an educated man, noble, generous,
and a genius; she was a peasant girl,
ignorant, vain, and shallow-hearted ; and
yet — lie loved her. He was not entirely blind

to her ignorance ; but he called it " youth
and innocence," and he thought that she
could learn whatever he wished. Her very
simplicity was an additional charm in his
eyes, and he never doubted that she was as
pure and artless as she was fair. Thus, in
his simplicity, did Plessis judge her to be
artless — whilst in reality there was more art
in her little finger than in his whole body.
He, as well as Columba, had at once determined
that they were meant for each other,
and must be married as soon as possible.
He felt ready to offer himself at once ; but
feared it was a little too soon. He considered
Signora Cat era's sudden arrival a most
inopportune contretemps as he had been
progressing so favourably with his courtship
when this interruption occurred. With his
peculiarly romantic and chivalrous notions,
Plessis had determined to win his love's
affections before he presented himself to her
parents to ask for her hand. He was an exceptional
Italian — a poet who lived in the
nineteenth century, and could still dream of
pure devotion and mutual love.

Signora Sunta sat down at the table, saying:
Finish thy dinner like a good christian,

Plessis. Thou wilt see thy Columba again,
without doubt. I fear that something bad
has happened at her house, for good
Caterina made such a long face. I am to
join them in the parlour when I have eaten
my dinner."

Something bad ! Of course there must
be ! Oh ! cannot I go to them. Ah, no, I
fear that could not be. But, per Banco ! why
do you not go at once, Mother ? What
matters your dinner ! "

' Patience and rags ! ' oh my son. * Who
goes slowly goes surely.' They have need
to speak alone first ; they do not want me
now."

** I do not wish to be unreasonable but —
but — is it not an accursed chance that has
interrupted our pleasant dinner ? "

Signora Sunta pitied her impatient son and
hurried over her dinner.

When she entered the parlour she found
Signora Caterina sitting in the arm-chair looking
very grave, and Columba kneeling on the
floor with her head buried in her mother's
lap, sobbing bitterly.

Holy Saint Romulus ! what has happened
?"

*' Oh ! dear Sunta, I will recount all to
thee. Thou has much discretion and canst aid
us in our trouble. I am aware that thou art
able to remain silent, and that thou knowest
that * in a closed mouth no flies enter ' ;
therefore, I will tell the story. Know that
Bertoldo Fossi has asked my Simonee to give
him our Columba to be his wife."

Sunta' s face fell on hearing this announcement
; but it brightened as her friend continued
:

'*' But I — foolish woman — would not consent
to my Columba's marrying unless it
was her own desire — and so I have asked
her ; and she answers that she hates and
detests Bertoldo, and would sooner marry
death than him ! And know, Bertoldo has
told Simonee that our child has encouraged
him, and my Simonee believes this. Therefore,
he will be furious — and my little
Columba will get the name of a flirt, and
perhaps never be married at all. And I am
the most miserable of women ! "

Caterina was rather inconsistent in her
anger, for she had expected her daughter to
refuse Bertoldo, but though she meant to
help and uphold her child, the unpleasant

consequences of the position alarmed her,
and she felt angry both with Fate and with
her Columba.

No, truly, Signora Catera, speak not thus !
Surely, thou knowest the innocence of thy
daughter's nature ! She is a dove of modesty
that has just flown down from nestling near
our Holy Mother's heart. That wicked
Bertoldo does not merit her slipper even —
he is an ox, a phlegmatic man, brutal and
coarse ; he is not a gentleman or well
educated. I could cut out his ugly tongue
for telling lies of our beautiful one ! As for
her not finding a husband ! Why, Caterina
mia, there are a hundred handsome young
men ready to fight for her. It was that
imbecile, Bertoldo, who kept the others off.
And now thou wilt find that thy Columba
can choose where she will. But be not
hurried, for she is worthy of a grand match —
of a far better man than that toad — thief ! "

This warm praise of her child comforted
Caterina, and confirmed her in her first
opinion, namely, that Columba had acted for
the best in refusing Bertoldo.

Columba dried her eyes and smiled gratefully
upon her friend, who added : —

Come into the dining-room and see my
Plessis, Catera ! Thou wilt find him
changed ; but thou wilt not say it is for the
worse — for though he has become quite a
gentleman he is still a true Fiesolano."

Thou art too good, my Sunta, ' may God
render thee the merit of it ! ' But how can
I feel comfortable in my mind when I fear
that that avaricious old Simonee, and Bertoldo
Fossi will force the will of my poor little
Columba ? "

Signora Sunta smiled brightly. " Let her
stay here, she can help me to pack my things,
and I can promise thee that my Plessis will
prove strong enough to keep Bertoldaccio *
a long way off ! "

'' Thou art a true Angel, oh Sunta ! It
is a most beautiful thought ! I will leave
ray Columba under thy care, and thou wilt
watch over her as though she were thine
own. I think also that I can pacify my
Simonee, and he would never try to beat me.
As for that Bertoldo ! il diavolo may take care
of liimy

Oh, Mamma 1 Oh, Signora Sunta ! A

Bertoldaccio, horrid Bertoldo.

thousand thanks to you both ! What joy I
My tribulations are ended and my heart is
filled with rapture ! " and Columba embraced
them both enthusiastically.

At that moment there was a knock at the
door and a deep-toned voice said : — •

Can I enter ? "

Enter ! " And the Signora Sunta opened
the door to Plessis. She introduced him at
once to Caterina; who thought he looked
quite a gentleman. And after she had heard
of his wealth and position, she began to
perceive how fortunate was the good Sunta' s
invitation to Columba. Her heart swelled
with maternal pride and pleasure as she
thought of what the future might bring forth.
Simonee should live to praise her management
and forethought. Yes, here was the
really grand match! And the young man
seemed so nice and polite, he would never
be cruel to her little Columba. She had
certainly never seen any one who appeared
more sympathetic to her.

Thou wilt not regret to hear the news,
my son. It is that la Columba remains
with us."

"Regret to hear!" How his face

G

brightened at her words, and lighted up
until he looked almost handsome.

'' She remains here for some time ; because
Bertoldo Fossi has asked her father
for her."

Asked for her ! And she ? And
you ? " He turned towards the blushing
Columba, and his voice grew almost fierce
in its agony of suspense as be asked that
question. But when he saw that she was
trembling, he subdued his voice to tones of
tender softness, saying : — '' Thou lowest him
not, Columba? Surely it is not possible
that thou wouldst marry Bertoldo Fossi ? "

'' Certainly not, thou idiot ! Annoy her
no more with thy foolish questions ! It is
for that reason the dear child remains with
us. It is for us to keep her from her
father's rage and that of Bertoldo Fossi."

Plessis's face brightened again. '' If she
loves him not it is well, mother ! This house
is hers — and she is its mistress. And as for
Fossi, if he but look upon her in anger, I
swear by all the saints that I will kill him.
My arm shall protect her — it is hers."

He drew himself up proudly and looked
so brave and manly that all the women

admired him, and Columba thought that she
had never seen Bertoldo look half so grand
and courageous. One great difference in the
characters of the two men, lay in the fact
that Bertoldo believed that strength of body
was the highest good, and therefore he
bullied the weak. Plessis considered
nobility of soul the greatest virtue, and
therefore he was tender towards all things
weaker than himself. Weakness of any
kind, mental or bodily, always appealed to
his chivalrous heart, and was a certain passport
to his most tender sympathy and aid.
Bertoldo loved himself first, and everything
else in due proportion as it related to this
great centre. Plessis loved his Grod first, and
then his fellow-creatures, his art, and all that
was noble, true, or beautiful. He respected
himself and loved his honour; but be always
considered his own ease and comfort as of
small account — and so humble-minded was
he, that he rarely told his opinions except
when expressly asked. Columba knew
nothing of all this, but she, as well as her
mother, surmised that Plessis was braver,
kinder, and better than her old admirer
Bertoldo. One thing was evident to them
G 2

all, and that was that Plessis was very much
in love with Columba.

'' A thousand thanks, Signor Plessis ! I
can well see that thou art as courageous
as a lion. But, I pray thee, do not kill
Bertoldo; for he merits not so severe a punishment
— and it would also make a scandal.
And, perhaps, Colorado's life and your own
might be spoilt in consequence. Only, if
Bertoldo tries to touch my child or to speak
to her, then I permit thee to beat him
with a strong stick; but not to quite kill
him. Thou must but defend my little
dove."

*' That will I, with all my heart ! I will
procure a good stick, thick and strong, and.
1 will keep it ever ready for Bertoldo
Fossi."

Columba smiled coyly at him. " Why,
Signor Plessis, one might think you wished
to beat Bertoldo ! "

"It is the truth ! " and then he whispered
to her. " I hold him in detestation because
he dares to love thee, my beautiful one, and
I would beat him for thy sake — and, believe
me, I should do it with right good will ! "

'' I feel no doubt that thou wouldst do so.

Signore! But, poor Bertoldo has committed
no crime; and though I too hold him in
detestation, and would never dream of
marrying him — yet I cannot see that
he deserves to have his bones broken
because he loves me, and I love him
not ! " .

'^ Thou art right, Signorina!" said Plessis,
his sense of justice conquering his jealous
and combative instincts. 'the poor devil
has trouble enough in the fact that thou art
not for him, and need not have his head
broken as well as his heart. I will not touch
him unless he angers me ; I give thee my
promise, beautiful one ! '*

The two mothers had been talking together,
and, of course, had not heard this
aside.

It was settled that Plessis should accompany
Caterina home, and bring back a bundle
of Columba's clothes. He drove Caterina
in his mother's pony-cart, and on the way he
told her the history of his life, saying that

he had never loved before, leaving a

blank of most expressive meaning. Caterina
understood him, and saw that he did not mean
to ask for Columba's hand yet; he evidently

wished to win lier affections first. Caterina
was very much pleased with him, and she let
him perceive that she was Toiling to be
his friend and ally. There was already a
tacit understanding between them, that he
should become Columba's suitor as soon as
she herself encouraged him.

Signora Caterina was well content with her
daughter's future prospects. A few hours
ago, as she had toiled up this same road,
everything had appeared black and gloomy ;
now all things wore a roseate hue.

They did not meet any one they knew ;
and, after Caterina had prepared her
daughter's bundle, Plessis wished her good-afternoon,
and drove triumphantly home.
But he stopped once on the way — and that
was, when he alighted from the trap to cut a
remarkably thick stick from a neighbouring
tree. This stick was strong and knobby ;
and Plessis trimmed it carefully, and drove
home with it by his side.

Columba lay awake that night for many
hours. It was not the strange bed that
made her so wakeful, but the excitement she
experienced. She had never in her whole

life before, had so many things to think of —
everything had happened so suddenly and
strangely, and she felt herself very young
to be placed in this position of importance.
Yes ! a grand future lay before her — and she
thought of Florence, city of silk dresses,
of the shop, and an unlimited supply of
jewellery, and of Plessis and how much she
liked him. All these thoughts filled her
mind and drove away sleep. And then,
strange to say, thoughts of poor Bertoldo
intruded themselves upon her. She began
to feel some slight pity and remorse. Did
he really love her, she wondered ? Yes, his
kiss had placed that fact beyond a doubt.
Would he feel very miserable ? She had
certainly deceived him, and, of course, that
was wrong; but then, he had deserved it,
for he had been both insolent and cruel.
But, somehow, the more she tried to think
of his bad qualities, the more persistent grew
the voice of conscience telling her that she
had deceived him, and that he would be
miserable and desperate — poor Bertoldo !
She determined to pray, as she did not know
any other way to drive these unwelcome

thoughts from her mind. Surely her
prayers would wipe out the wrong she
had done him ? So she went to sleep
murmuring : —

'* Holy Saint Romulus, patron of Fiesole,
comfort poor Bertoldo, and cause him to
forget me, and lead his soul to Paradise!"

BERTOLDO.

WHEN Plessis left the good Caterina,
the latter found her better-half in an
irritable frame of mind, complaining bitterly
of Columba's perversity in refusing Bertoldo,
and of her wicked and unfilial conduct in
staying out of the reach of the good beating
he longed to give her. So violent was the
disappointed father's anger, that his politic
wife thought it best to tell Simonee at once
of her bright hopes for their child's future.
A very few words served to put the old man
in a good temper, for the mention of a rich
son being now at home with the Signora
Yalencini, was quite enough to set his mind
at rest. These words were as oil on the
troubled waters of his spirit. He chuckled
good-humouredly and pinched his wife's ear.
After this, nothing more was said about
fetching their Columba home, or of giving hera

beating. And so Bertoldo lost his one
champion.

Simonee proved very wary in managing to
keep out of the discarded suitor's way ; and he
dodged behind something, if he ever chanced
to espy Bertoldo approaching. This was nota
dignified style of behaviour, but he said :
*' The women have made the mischief, so it
is their business to put things straight
again,"

That Bertoldo noticed his old friend's
avoidance and neglect, is certain ; but at
first he did not pay it much attention ;
for he knew that the old man was both
cautious and avaricious, and that he would
take time to consider whether there was noway
in which he could make a better bargain.
But Bertoldo felt a comfortable certainty
that, before very long, Simonee would
be convinced that he would make a very
good bargain, if he gave his child, dowerless,
to him. So the young man waited for
four or five days with as much patience ashe
could; then, as the answer was still
delayed, he resolved to go to the Yestris'
house, and " have it out with old Simonee."

The sluggish waters of his soul were

stirred for the first time in his whole life,
and he began to rise above the level of his
usual mere animal existence. A proof of
this may be deduced from the fact that his
appetite failed him.

Bertoldo was five and twenty, and till now
his old nurse Maria had always kept house
for him. She feared that he would marry
sooner or later, and very much disliked the
idea of losing her comfortable home. She
wished he would take a fancy to her niece
Beppa Carpi, who lived in Pisa, as then she
would be able to stay on with them. She
both feared and hated Columba. Fortunate
Valencini was her sole friend and confidante.
She noticed Bertoldo's anxious manner with
great uneasiness, and determined to find out
the cause.

One evening when Bertoldo was smoking
a pipe in the kitchen after their twelve
o'clock dinner, with Maria seated knitting
beside him, he put down his pipe, saying,
suddenly :

** Is not Columba Yestris a beautiful
girl?"

'' Not so bad ! But, thou shouldst see my
niece Beppa; there is beauty in truth. She

is refined and elegant, and not a Contadinella
like La Vestries."

It may be so, Maria, but I cannot believe
it. Beppa may suit the people of the city,
but for us of Fiesole there is no Beauty like
our Columba. Per me there is no flower
more lovely. It is natural that I should
think this, because in a short time Columba
will be my wife."

Maria dropped her knitting in dismay,
which pleased Bertoldo, who went on gaily :

I am going at once to court her, as her
father has already given his consent."

Maria having regained her self-control,
answered spitefully :

She is not thy wife yet Bertoldo Fossi.
Thou wouldst * buy the cat in the sackbut
thou wilt live to repent thy bargain, my
child."

"Be not ill - humoured, Maria ; thou
shouldst wish me felicity, for it is my intention
to act generously by thee."

Yes, yes, I wish thee great felicity."

It sounds like a malediction rather.
Thus do I make the sign of the evil eye
against thee, thou old witch." And he
pointed his two fingers at her.

Bertoldo then rushed up-stairs, and dressed
himself hastily in his Sunday clothes. He
did not like old Maria's evil eye, but it did
not shake his confidence in coming good
luck. Going into the garden, he picked a
bunch of flowers for Columba. And started
off with the air of a conqueror, to win his
bride. Poor fellow, he was in truth utterly
unconscious of the true reason of Simonee's
silence. He knocked at the door with rather
a triumphant air, and even Caterina's stiff
manner failed to warn him of his approaching
doom.

Is he in the house, Simonee Vestries ? "

No ! he is out. But you can enter and
speak with me instead." Caterina drew her
laughing mouth down at the corners, and
tried to look cold and unpropitious. She
did not pity the rough young giant, but she
did fear that he might cause them all some
trouble. Indeed, her share of the trouble
had already commenced ; for Simonee always
shifted his difficulties on to her shoulders,
knowing that her back was strong enough
for any burden.

Bertoldo entered, but his triumphant
manner had changed to a hesitating and

sheepish air. He thought Caterina wished
to impress him with the solemnity of the
occasion, the irrevocability of a betrothal.
He followed her into the kitchen, and seated
himself nervously on the extreme edge of a
chair.

Caterina returned to her pot on the fire
and beo:an to stir it, with her back towards
Bertoldo. She spoke, without looking
round.

'' What do you desire to say to my
Simonee?"

Arch-priest, Signora Catera ! Surely,
your husband must have spoken with you ? '*
said the bewildered young man.

'' Yes, Simonee is always speaking, therefore
it is difficult to remember what he says."

It was cruel of Caterina to play with him
thus ; and he could not understand what she
meant by such behaviour, until a sudden
idea struck him. Of course, she wished him
to commit himself, to state his proposal in
plain language ; it was likely enough that
she had refused to believe her husband when
he told her of such a generous offer, so she
wanted him to repeat it, before she entered
on further discourse. Bertoldo was not

surprised that anyone should refuse to
believe that he would offer to take a dowerless
bride, for it was well known that he
might choose among all the rich girls of the
neighbourhood. But he did not repent his
offer, and therefore he would repeat it for
Caterina's satisfaction.

"You are right, Signora Caterina ; thy good
Simonee is a great chatterer ! But I marvel
that he should not have told you clearly of
an affair of such great importance. I asked
him to give me thy Columba for my wife ;
and I promised to ask for no dowry, only for
her simple correct. This may well appear
madness on my part — and I know that my
friends will laugh at me. But I love thy
Columba with all my heart ; and the money
may go — a Inferno ! "

In spite of the conceited manner in which
he had commenced, Bertoldo had ended with
such a burst of genuine feeling that Caterina
actually began to pity him, and to regret the
part she was obliged to play. And then,
to her, he appeared such a fine, handsome
young fellow, that many worse faults than
he possessed might well be forgiven him.
Yes, truly ; if it had not been for Plessis,

Caterina would have deserted her daughter's
cause, and gone over to the enemy. As
it was, she tried to harden her heart
against him. So she again turned to
her pot, and spoke with her back towards
him :

My Simonee would never try to force our
Columba's affections."

Oh, I know that well ! I have no fear."

'' You make a mistake then. Our Columba
will not have you and therefore we cannot
accept your offer."

** What do you say to me ? "

'•' That our Columba refuses you, and we
refuse you also."

*' Thousand devils ! I have been deceived,
betrayed, played with ! donna ! leave
that accursed pot, and look me in the face !"

He went up to her and seized her roughly
by the arm, and forced her to look at him.
He was white with passion, and trembling
with the violence of his emotion. Poor
Caterina mentally said a short prayer, for
she expected instant death — Bertoldo looked
so terribly ferocious.

'' Cannot you speak ? donna, most perfidious
! Say, did not thy Simonee encourage

me ? Has he not given me hope for many
years past? Speak!" And he shook her
fiercely.

'' If you treat me like a dog, Bertoldo
Fossi, yon may expect but a dog's answer.
Take away your hand, if you would have
me reply to you."

He loosened his grasp, but still held her
angrily.

'' The old Simonee is a fool, as you know,
and his will counts for nothing. It is you
who have played the gran signore with us.
You made no proposal, and kept off all
other lovers, until, at the end, Columba
detests you ! That gives me no surprise.
You osier now — quando vi pare —
and we answer, that we will not have this
marriage."

'' It may be that Simonee is a fool — but
you are a viper, Cateraccia, perfidious
woman ! Oh, Columba my beloved ! She
is a true flirt, and yet . . diavolo ! I love
her more than ever. Listen to me, Catera,
your child has encouraged me, and now
she says she wants me not. Bada bene !

When it suits you.

lie will never marry, but die on the little
chair ! "*

**Clie! I do not believe you at all, nota
word you say ! Columba tells me that she
finds you most detestable. If she was ever
friendly towards you, it was because she was
but a child."

'' If she is a child, she will perhaps change
her mind. Call her at once I"

'' I cannot call her, because she is not in
the house."

'' Where is she ? "

"It matters not to you; she will not
change. And I will not permit you to annoy
her."

''I will know where she is!" And he
seized her arm again.

"She is where they know how to take
care of her," said Caterina, defiantly.

Bertoldo suddenly dropped her arm, and
his tone changed from angry command
to pathetic pleading :

Your pardon, if I have been too rough ;
but I love the little one so much that

Su la seggiolina, meaning, be an old maid. A
popular expression of common persons.

I know not what I do ! I am mad — for my
heart is filled by the thought of her, and I
cannot even breathe when I think of the
cruel words you have said to me. For the
love of Heaven ! tell me at least where she
is ? I promise you I will do her no harm.
I swear it to you by the Holy Virgin ! "

Caterina knew that he would discover
Columba's abode sooner or later, besides,
he had touched her sympathies, for his very
masterfulness was attractive to her as she
thought it manly ; so she replied meekly :

Our Columba is with la Signora Sunta
Valencini."

It goes well ! Good evening to you, and
many thanks for your information."

Stooping to pick up his hat, he walked
quickly to the door ; but, when there, seemed
struck by a sudden thought, for he demanded
imperiously :

Tell me, woman, is it true that la
Valencini's son has returned? "

'' Yes ; it is true."

"Ah ! " — and he breathed a silent curse —
Ah ! I understand all now. I saw the
brigand lurking about near here. Most avaricious
and fox-like spirit ! I understand your
ii 2

intentions. You would rob me of my beautiful
Columba. But heed well ! Upon that same
day that they go before the Commune to be
married will I strike her husband dead !
May the evil eye blight all of this house,
and may you be accursed for ever ! " And
he rushed madly from the room.

Truly, the sluggish brain of this man had
been quickened at last ; he had a soul now
but it might have been lent to him by the
Fiend himself.

Caterina sank into a chair and began to
cry. It had all been very terrible and
exciting. She had never expected Bertoldo's
jealousy to be aroused ; for she had no idea
how the passion of love quickens the intellect.
She sincerely hoped that he would not
take immediate vengeance, or kill himself in
his despair. To tell the truth, she felt some
regret that Columba had not loved Bertoldo ;
it would have settled matters much more
quickly and easily.

"• Alas ! how unfortunate am I — it is Fate 1
I am afflicted with an incapable for a

husband, and our Columba is but no —

she is my heart's dove, and I will bear any
trouble for her sake. I must buy her a coral



hand to protect her from the evil eye, for,
who knows ? she might get the small-pox
or scarlet fever ! Oh, holy Saint Romulus,
grant that she marry Plessis Valentinian
peace, and that she die not an old
maid!"

columba's wish fulfilled.

Columba was enjoying herself excessively.
Her love of power and admiration
was gratified to the full; she was
petted and caressed all day by Signora
Sunta, and Plessis was her humble slave.
His homage was of so novel a character that
it acquired an additional charm in her eyes
on that account. She was not in love with
him, but she coquetted with him prettily,
and had begun to fancy that she actually did
care for him. She was in reality dazzled by
his grand ways, and, above all, by the
thought of his riches.

One day, after she had spent more than a
week with them, Columba and Plessis were
seated together in the garden, laughing and
talking merrily. Every now and then, the
good Sunta would come to the window and
look out at them — to return to her work

smiling contentedly. Never did the course
of true love promise to run more smoothly.
But, if the smiling Sunta was the lovers'
good genius, the sour-visaged Fortunata was
certainly their evil genius.

She often peered out at them, muttering :
*' The fools ! " And she was again the first
to see Caterina Yestris enter the garden
gate.

Just before the mother arrived, the sunshine
of the lovers' smiles had been dimmed
by Columba's saying, with a sigh :

Ah, poor me ! after tomorrow I return
home."

Plessis had replied passionately : " Then
why go ! Is not this house comfortable to
thee ? Do we not pray thee to stay, and not
to leave us desolate ? "

Columba pretended not to notice the
ardour of his tone, and answered in a most
matter-of-fact way : " But, Signore, you
forget ! The day after tomorrow you all
leave for Florence."

It was at this moment that Caterina made
her appearance, and Fortunata bustled out
to meet her, with officious delight.

Oh ! Signora Catera, thou art welcome.

It seems to me a thousand years since I
last saw thee ! For it is not with me, ' far
from the eye far from the heart ! ' " And
she glanced maliciously at the young people.

Poor Plessis looked very miserable ; and
Columba, though an affectionate daughter in
the main, appeared anything but pleased to
see her mother. She dreaded unpleasant
tidings, and feared that she would be taken
home at once.

Good day to thee, Fortunata ! How
goes it with you? And you also, Signor
Plessis, it rejoices me to see you ! Hast
thou no kiss for thy mother, Colombina?"

'' Oh, yes, mother, a thousand if thou
wilt. But tell me, the father, is he well ?
And all the beasts ? Thou hast not come to
take me back to the house ? " She said the
last words so plaintively that her mother
laughed good-humouredly.

'' I will not take thee to-day, unless la
Signora Sunta is tired of having thee ! "

'' Surely, Catera, you know that Columba
could never cause annoyance, and one could
never become tired of her company. She is
a true delight ! " said the good Sunta, as
she bustled up and kissed her friend Caterina

upon both cheeks. '' But, tell me, there is
nothing wrong at thy house ? "

*' It rejoices me to says that the beasts are
well, also my Simonee, although I should not
mention it ! " and she crossed herself, to
prevent ill-luck on account of her having
said her belongings were well.* 'but there
is disturbance and trouble of which
Columba is the cause — and it is for that
reason I have come. Bertoldo has become
furious, and is in a terrible passion ; he will
assassinate, he will kill ! He nearly took the
life from me. Not that I would say evil of
him, poor fellow; it was the anger and
jealousy that entered into him, and rendered
him beside himself. We all know that ' one
must go when the Devil drives ! ' "

Columba turned pale, and clung trembling
to Caterina :

'' Oh, Mamma, he will not kill me ! I hope
not, because I am so young. I have no wish
to die — death is so terrible. To lie in the
cold tomb — oh, Mother ! say he will not kill
me!"

^ No Italian likes to praise a possession, as he
believes ill-fortune will happen to it directly he speaks
well of it.

Plessis's face looked like a thunder-cloud.
'* ' Kill ' you, Columba ! He will have need
to kill me first: — and we will speak together
of that!"

Oh ! Plessis, for the love of Heaven, do
not anger him more ; he is already imbittered
against you because of Columba staying here,
for he is very jealous."

Columba hid her face, and her neck became
rosy red.

Pig of Bacchus ! Had you not better
send him to San Bonifazio?"* said Fortunate,
sourly.

No ! sister, I suppose Bertoldo is not a
real madman — and we are strong enough
to defend ourselves and the little one also.
Say, good Caterina, may we not take her
with us to Florence ? "

Oh, Signora Sunta, that is a beautiful
thought, a true inspiration sent thee by the
saints ! But, will it not make danger for
Sign or Plessis?"

Plessis's dark eyes had beamed on his
mother with an expression of loving gratitude
; he now turned to Caterina :

'* Plessis would love the danger incurred

Florentine lunatic asylum.

for thy Columba ! But have no fear, I am
strong, and thy Dove will be safe from the
hawk — she can nestle on my mother's breast
as on thine own. And for me — every drop
of my heart's blood is hers ! "

Columba peeped at him shyly as he spoke ;
his deep rich voice, so full of passionate intensity,
sounded like music, and seemed to
exercise a magnetic influence upon her. She
blushed with pleasure, although the tears
still glistened on her long eye-lashes. She
looked so beautiful that he loved her more
than ever — and felt like a knight of old
bound to cherish, protect, and fight for his
lady-love.

*' Mamma mia ! you all make a great work
about a most respectable young man who only
wished to marry la Columba ; and when he
could not have her, took it ill. Which is
natural, for it is a shame for a man to get a
refusal. But, Holy Saint Romulus ! without
doubt, he has forgotten her already. Know
you not that Bertoldo Fossi has power to
choose from all the girls in the neighbourhood
? Do not imagine that he is going to
make a galley-slave of himself because of
that child ! "

This speech. carried a barb for them all, as
it made light of their fears and of Columba's
attractions, and made their previous conversation
appear in rather a ridiculous light ; for
Fortunata's words seemed to show the commonsense
view, theirs the high-flown. This
was exactly what Fortunata wished. She
went back to the kitchen immediately after
she had delivered her parting shaft. When
there, she grumbled bitterly to herself :

It is my destiny ! Always misfortunes !
Poor me ! to have that flirting one with us
in Florence, there to act the lady over ray
head ! Oh unfortunate, accursed day*'

THE Betrothal.

Columba enjoyed her stay in Florence
thoroughly. It was to her a world of
wonders — a City of Delights. And she had
had two new dresses given to her. It washer
Mamma who gave the money to buy them;
but Columba had herself gone with the Signora
Sunta to choose them. One was a fawn-coloured
alpaca, and the other a black silk
with red stripes. Her cousin Nicoletta had
not a single dress to compare with the silk !
And then, Plessis had given her a large coral
cross and gold pins for her hair, and Signora
Sunta had presented her with a new and
handsome black lace veil. How proud she
had felt on the first Sunday on which she
went to Mass, dressed in all her finery ! Ah !
how the young men had stared at her in
admiration. In the afternoon they had all
gone for a walk in the Cascine, and Columba

had thought that very nice. She never
noticed the beauties of Nature, and hardly-heard
Plessis '' talking poetry" by her side
she thought of nothing but watching the
grand ladies and gentlemen driving past in
their carriages.

Yes, certainly, Columba was enjoying her
visit to Florence. Plessis also enjoyed it
quite as much. The little shop with the small
apartment overhead was to him a very palace
of delight, for it contained his little dove.
His love was imaginative in the extreme, and
he loved his own ideal so well that he was
utterly blind to the real Columba.

In a room behind the shop he had set up
an easel, and begun to paint there. He also
wrote numerous poems and sonnets to his
Love. For all that, business was not neglected,
as he retained his uncle's trusted showman,
besides all the former workmen, and looked
after them himself. He was pain ting-columba's
portrait, and found it a difficult
task, as it was almost impossible to induce
her to sit still for five minutes too-ether. She
complained that he was very unkind not to
paint her in her new silk dress, but to insist
on her wearing her old dark blue cotton.

with a red silk handkerchief round lier neck,
and her hair falling 'all in a mess" over
her shoulders. She thought he made her
appear nothing but a peasant girl instead of
a Signorina. Perhaps that was what Plessis
intended ; for he possessed a true artist's
taste, and knew that his love looked far more
beautiful and picturesque in her simple
peasant dress than in her gay silk, aping
gentility. It was a remarkably pretty picture,
for the subject was picturesque and the artist
talented. He worked with his whole heart
Love lending greater brilliance to the hues.
He had painted Columba's face with an expression
of innocent wonder upon it, and she
held a white dove in her hands — her emblems
Plessis called it.

Columba thought it very fine and grand to
be able to paint pictures, though sitting for
them was exceedingly tiresome. She admired
Plessis and looked up to him, and, therefore,
felt quite happy and satisfied.

Of poor Bertoldo they had had tidings
from old Simonee when he came down one
Sunday to see his child. He said Bertoldo
Fossi was flirting with all the girls in the
neighbourhood, and he had become an

Ubbriacone,* was neglecting his farm, and
all his affairs were going to ruin. He avoided
Simonee, who thought that he had evidently
forgotten Columba, and that she was well
quit of such a good-for-nothing admirer.

That night, after her father left, Columba
stood alone in her own room, looking out
upon the still moon-lit river.

'' I wonder if Bertoldo has really forgotten
me ! " she thought, and a sharp pain seemed
to catch her breath and force the water into
her eyes. '' Ah ! Holy Madonna ! " she
exclaimed suddenly, *' I hope, in truth, that
he has not become a drunken man for love of
me ! Holy Virgin, keep him, for I wish him
no ill."

On that same evening Plessis sat by liu
window, thinking. The Arno lay calm and
silvered beneath him ; [for his shop was on
the Lung-Arno Acciajoli, just round the
corner of the Jewellers' Bridge, and, though
the shop faced the other shops, the back
window looked directly upon the river, and
both Plessis's studio and bedroom faced the
Arno, with nothing between to obstruct the

Drunkard.

view. The moon shone silvery and bright
upon the still water — the lights were all put
out in the houses on the opposite Lung-Arno
and everything seemed replete with silence
and with rest.

Plessis looked forth, and thought of
Columba. Romantic and poetic feelings filled
his soul — fit out-births of the placid scene
before him.

I must ask her to be my wife soon," was
bis last thought.

He knew that her family already considered
them as tacitly engaged. Old SimoDe
had willingly consented that her stay in
Florence should be indefinitely prolonged,
although it was no longer necessary to keep
her out of Bertoldo's way — for the poor
fellow was troubling no one, and only hurting
himself. But Plessis, poet-like, fancied that
his love was infinitely above him in excellence.
So graceful, young, pure, and beautiful
— in his modesty he doubted if she could
ever learn to care for him ; and with eager
fear longed to cage his little dove.

I will ask her tomorrow," he thought.
But, chime ! if she should say me no ! She
will then desire to leave us, and if she return

I.

home for that reason I fear old Simonee will
annoy lier. I will tell her that no one shall
know that I have made the proposal, so that
even if she should refuse me, she can still
remain here. And I will also tell her, that I
will wait with patience in the hope that she
may change her mind. But, Dio mio ! if she
should never change — how can I live without
her ! "

Plessis never divined Columba's true
feelings — how could he ? — for he only thought
of love, she of money.

He sat up the whole night long and saw
the moonlight vanish, the darkness appear,
and then the cold grey dawn. He did not
feel tired or miss his night's rest, for his
frame of mind was elevated beyond the plane
of natural things.

During their breakfast, Plessis was remarkably
silent. After they had finished,
when Columba was preparing to enter the
studio for her usual sitting, he said :

*' Wilt go out with me, Columba ? It is a
most beautiful day, and we can walk in the
Cascine."

Columba looked doubtfully at Sunta ; but
that good mother, guessing her son's wishes,

said : " Have no fear to walk alone with
Plessis-thy mother would not be displeased."


So Columba went to her room, and put on
her fawn-coloured alpaca, and the new black
lace veil over her head. She had begun to
wish for a hat or bonnet ; but had not yet
dared suggest such an innovation to contains
customs — a hat being to them an unnecessary
luxury. But she was glad to
discard her silk pezzuola (kerchief) for the
black lace veil, which at Fiesole she had only
worn on Sundays or other Festus.

She walked by Plessis' s side in silence,
glancing shyly at him now and then. She
thought he looked quite a gentleman, and
that she was a fortunate girl to possess such
a lover. Her head was not yet chute turned
by her new surroundings, though she was
rendered more thoughtless than before by
the delights of the town, new dresses,
jewellery, and admiration. But, of all her
pleasures, Plessis' s love was, as yet, the most
prized ; for she longed to become mistress of
that fine house, and of the shop with its
brilliant jewellery. She might then wear
which she chose of all those gay trinkets.
I 2

Plessis took her into the Cascine— the
Avoided park of the Florentines-^choosing
the path nearest the water-side. The fine
old trees were in the first flush of their early
summer beauty, forming graceful arches of
delicate green, interlacing their boughs
above the paths ; and the morning sun shone
through the leaves, and made them glisten
like emeralds.

Plessis led Columba on in silence, until
the regular path ceased and they found
themselves pursuing their way over a little
unfrequented footway. Then, turning to
Columba, he asked her gently if she would
not like to sit down upon a bank. She
assented, and, taking out her handkerchief,
spread it carefully on the ground and seated
herself upon it — for she had no idea of spoiling
her fawn-coloured alpaca ; no love-making
in the world would excuse such
negligence. She felt some slight excitement
and sense of expectation — for Plessis's conduct
was certainly very strange, taking
her out for a walk: and never speaking to
her ! She was also annoyed with him for not
walking on the big carriage-drive, where she
might at least have seen some gentlemen

exercising their horses by an early rice, — and
where, if they wanted rest, they could have
sat down upon a nice stone bench, instead of
this stupid green bank, where she ran the
risk of spoiling her beautiful dress. But she
did not dare complain, for she felt some awe
of Plessis, and usually listened to and obeyed
him with the docility of a child. So she
merely pouted with her pretty red lips, and
looked up at him rather impatiently. He
stood in front of her, pale, serious, and
determined. At length he spoke :

Is not this a day of paradise, my beautiful
one ? See you the river flowing like a
stream of silver light — and the trees bending
over us to shade us with their leaves, so
tender, so sensitive ! And above us we hear
the birds singing of Love and Joy. They
speak to my heart and to thine, my beautiful
dove. They are telling thee how much I
love thee, star of mine ! Oh, beloved one,
do you not hear them ? Listen to what they
say — listen in compassion to thy lover !"

He had thrown himself down on the bank
beside her, and was looking into her face
with eager pleading. She dropped her eyes
and blushed. The sound of his words was

pleasant to her, and his voice was like music
she seemed to be listening to a love-song.
She liked to be addressed in such grand and
poetical language ; but she did not consider
it necessary to make him any reply, for he
only spoke of love yet, — she would answer
him when he made the proposal of marriage.
Taking her silence favourably, Plessis added,
still more tenderly :

*' Care mia, dost thou understand what it
is to love, to feel that another is all the
world to thee ? I fear thou dost not yet ;
but say, wilt thou try to love me ? Wilt
thou give me thy promise to become my
wife?"

She trembled slightly, from excitement, as
she listened to the much-desired proposal ;
but she was nervous lest he should misunderstand
her, and that this great opportunity
should slip from her. So she said
quickly :

I will become thy wife, Plessis ! "
For a moment he was quite confused by the
happiness her words gave him ; they were
most delightful to him, because he never fora
moment doubted that she loved him, or
she would not so readily have consented to

marry him — for was she not the purest, most
modest, and innocent of her sex ! After
thinking for a short time of this great delight,
he said softly :

"Be thou blest, oh, my Columba, my
love ! " And he kissed her tenderly.

When he kissed her the remembrance of
another kiss she had received came over her,
and again did Columba feel that sudden,
sharp pain, as she wondered how Bertoldo
would feel when he heard of her betrothal.
How strange it would be when she became a
grand lady, and passed her old lover without
recognition, — he a mere contains, she a rich
married lady ! She submitted to Plessis's
embrace, but, nevertheless, she felt a sense
of relief when he let her go. She gave a
slight sigh, and there was a shadow on her
face — she preferred thinking of future
grandeur to present love-making.

Both Columba and Plessis were too much
absorbed in one idea to be able to perceive
clearly each other's feelings or disposition.
His thought was all of love — a love far too
imaginative and removed from the actual
world to be safe. The awakening mast come
sooner or later — he could not dream for ever.

For true love consists in not being blind to
the loved one's faults, but in loving on in
their despite — idealising the good qualities,
hoping, trusting ever for the best. But
loving only one's own ideal, and being blind
to the true personality of the loved one, that
is not Love — it is hut fancy. Youths and
maidens of romantic, imaginative minds often
feel this pure, unpractical admiration; but
these fancies seldom last for long, unless they
change their character and become true love.
Plessis was still a youth in purity and innocence,
and this was his first fancy ; above
all, he was a poet, and loved poetically.

Columba's mind was filled by interested
and mercenary ideas of the material comforts
this marriage would give her. No one who
looked at that pretty, blushing face, with its
downcast eyes, and pouting rose-bud lips,
would have guessed that she was mercenary.
And yet, there never was a more worldly,
calculating little woman than this pretty
child of seventeen. But in this she was not
an exception to the generality of her countrywomen.
Plessis continued to speak in loving
accents, telling her sweet truths that could
only interest their two selves ; but, indeed.

they hardly did that; for Columba was a
passive, but most inattentive listener. Her
thoughts had flown far away into the future,
where they were building brave castles in
the air.

At length Plessis said, with a sigh of
regret, " I believe it is time to return to the
house, my betrothed. Ah ! how the heart
of my dearest mother will rejoice when she
knows of my good fortune." He offered her
his arm, and they walked silently homewards.
As they neared the end of the Cascine, a
sudden doubt struck Plessis, and he stopped,
saying anxiously :

'' Are you sure that you love me,
Columba ? "

This seemed an unpleasant question to
Columba, and it recalled her, with a rude
shock, from her most delightful castle-building.
She had never asked herself this
question, and was certainly not prepared to
answer him. '' But," she thought quickly,
she was not marrying him for money.
Oh, no ! she would be proud of him for
himself — a man so strong, and brave, and
clever." Giving herself no time for further
reflection, she replied :

Certainly, Plessis ! '*

He was satisfied then; but, on thinking
the matter over long afterwards, he remembered
that there had been no tenderness in
her tone, and that this could not have been
caused by maidenly reserve, for her answer
had been given so readily and so decidedly.

That evening all was joy and gladness in
the little house on the Lung-Arno. Caterina
and Simonee had been summoned from
Fiesole, and all rejoiced together over the
prosperous ending of this courtship. No one
thought of poor Bertoldo, and not a whisper
or omen of ill clouded the general delight.

Only Fortunata stole away alone, and
murmured :

''Alessio is mad with love and entirely
blinded. He would ' buy the cat in the sack.*
But ' the devil's flour all turns to bran ! '
They are not married yet, and ' all eggs
become not chicks.' "

INA Laurence.

Three years before the present date of
our story, two English ladies had come
to live in Florence. The elder was a widow;
named Hume, and the younger, her niece,
Ina Laurence. Mrs. Hume did not possess
any money of her own, whilst Ina, having
just attained her majority, had then come
into a large fortune. Mrs. Hume was Ina's
mother's sister, who, when a pretty, penniless
girl, had married a handsome curate,
and had been early left a poor and childless
widow. Her younger sister had married
the rich old Mr. Laurence ; but she had died
soon after her only child's birth, and Mr.
Laurence had not long survived her. Thus,
the child-heiress had been left to her aunt's
guardianship ; for she was the only relation
Ina possessed in the world. Her other
guardian was the old family solicitor, and he

managed all lier business affairs. Ina came
to Florence when she was just twenty-one,
and mistress of her own fortune. She took
an old house, formerly belonging to one of
the great Italian painters, and in this
house she continued to reside. It was
rather out of repair now, and stood in a
dark street not far from the Piazza dell'
Annunziata. A marble tablet on the facade
told how that famous old painter had lived
and died in the house. There was a small
garden at the back, and a terrace on
the stable-roof, to which one ascended by a
stone stair-case from the garden below. Two
magnificent bushes of G-loire de Dijon roses
reared themselves from the garden up to the
terrace above, where they twined themselves
in among the railings. They were very old,
as the thickness and height of their stems
showed, and they were nearly always covered
with hundreds of magnificent roses ; — without
exaggeration, there were rarely more
than two or three months in the year in
which they were not in flower, for they
bloomed even in winter. The roses, however,
made no difference to Mrs. Hume, and
she grumbled incessantly at their place of

abode. She wished to live in a new house
in the finest quarter of Florence, and to
have brilliant satin furniture and hangings,
and all the latest improvements in upholstery
and decoration. What did she
care for the romantic or picturesque ? But
Ina did care, and, as she was the mistress of
the house, her wishes carried the day, and
they lived on in the old painter's picturesque
residence, dark and decayed though it was.

Ina was tall and stately, with a handsome
and expressive face. She had a noble mind,
and pure, imaginative nature. If she had
a fault, it was that she in her unworldly simplicity
often allowed her imagination to
guide her instead of her judgment. She
could be lively as well as pensive and
thoughtful, and her wit was ever ready and
bright. But she was essentially not a
society girl," and she never cared for
any gaieties. She was clever and accomplished,
and spent her time in studying and
improving her mind, and was, in fact, a
most romantic and unworldly young woman.
Above all, she had never merged the woman
in the young lady, and was as tender, pure,
and true as it is possible to be. As a friend

once said of her — her character was *'a
curious mixture."

Mrs. Hume was a fussy-looking little
lady, with a curled wig, squeaky voice,
good temper, and an overwhelming desire
to enter the most fashionable society, and
a wish to run after all notabilities. Ina
often blushed for her aunt's follies ; but she
loved her for her good heart, and because
she was the only relation she had in the
world.

For the first two years of their stay in
Florence, Ina's life continued very much the
same, studying, to please herself, going into
society, to please her aunt. Mrs. Hume
found that her niece's riches and beauty
easily procured for them both an entree into
the most fashionable Italian society. And
it was to the houses of the fast and frivolous
nobility that she took the unwilling Ina.
The quiet English residents she despised,
and boasted that she never visited the untitled.
Poor Ina passed unscathed through
this ordeal of frivolous dissipation ; but it
was a great weariness to her. Many a handsome
voungf marchese and conte tried to win
the hand of the English heiress ; but she persistently

refused all offers. Her heart bad
never been touched, and, though she was
unaware that they were more in love with
her fortune than with herself, she would none
of them. She sometimes expostulated with
her aunt, and said she should like to make
some real friends, amongst her own country-people,
who were more intellectual and congenial
than the Italians they knew ; but, as
this idea horrified Mrs. Hume, and as Ina
did not care very much about the matter,
she let the subject drop, and continued to
live her lonely life — isolated in the whirl of
society, quiet midst gaiety and mirth.

But, after two years' residence in Florence,
the most eventful moment in her life came —
the vulnerable spot in her armour was discovered,
and, through pity, she lost her
peace of mind.

Mrs. Hume and Ina were spending the
evening at the Contessa Francolin's : it
was not a large party, for there were only
about ten persons in the room, all of whom
were well known to each other ; and the conversation
was sociable and unrestrained.

The Contessa was a young bride, lively,
enthusiastic, and impressionable. She had

taken a great fancy to Ina, and was now
seated with the English girl's hand laying
passively in hers ; when she said suddenly :

'' Oh, friends, I have a story to recount to
you. It is really romantic, and most interesting."


Oh, tell on ! " cried a chorus of voices.

Know, then, there was once a prince —
well, no ! not exactly a prince, for he was
only a conte, but then, heroes of tales
should always be princes. E bene ! this
Conte was called Carlo Bentivoglio, and he
was of an old Venetian family. Heavens !
but they were old, truly of the aristocracy.
They were proud as Lucifer, poor as mice,
and also most extravagant. The old Conte
died in debt, and the young Conte lived in
the same style that his ancestors had done.
But things cannot endure for ever, and so
the poor fellow reached his last soldo. His
friends said — ' Ah, Carlo ! there is nothing
left for you but suicide, honour demands it ! '
But he made reply : ' You are wrong ; honour
demands that I should live and work ! ' And
so he sold his old palace, and left the city of
his fathers, and came to Florence to work.
He is quite handsome, and to me he appears

a true nobleman. He would not die ; he
would live and work ! "

'^Ahj most noble!" murmured an old
Dowager.

*' Perhaps he feared to die," whispered
one gentleman to a friend.

''Ah, friends," continued the Contessa,
enthusiastically, '* picture to yourselves his
position — the old family palace sold, his
pride laid low, and he trying to become
an advocate in a city of strangers, alone
and unaided. Surely, suicide would have
been easier ! I call him a truly brave man."
'' The poor devil had nothing else to do ;"
whispered the same unfriendly gentleman to
his neighbour.

'^ Ah, yes ; a galant'uomo ! " echoed the
Dowager.

He is like our Black Prince," murmured
Ina; "he would say, ' Mon Dieu et mon
droit.' "

'' Yes, carina mia, I knew that you would
sympathize with him. Ah, but you should
see him ; he does look like a prince, poor
fellow ! I will admit that he has been a little
too gay, and also fond of the cards ; but
now he has determined to be very good.

K

He had before not cared enough for * the
Religion,' but now he has grown serious.
Ah, poor fellow ! he is so sad and lonely
that we should all pity him, and help him
in his distress."

'' Yes, truly ! " whispered the same envious
detractor. "The Bentivoglio is a devil
amongst the women. He is handsome,
idle, dissipated, but he has already as much
work as he chooses to do — all through the
women, who use their influence in his favour,
and get him employed in preference to steady
and experienced advocates. PerBacco ! they
shower presents upon him, and he borrows
money right and left. As for his religion
and reformation, we know what they are
worth ! But he is a handsome penitent,
" and the gentleman chuckled sceptically.


But the Contessa heard none of this. She
only saw that Ina's cheeks had flushed with
generous sympathy, as she spoke, and, like a
flash of lightning, an idea entered her brain
afterwards to be carried out.

No more was said of Conte Bentivoglio
that evening. But, as her guests were leaving,
the Contessa embraced Ina affectionately,

and said : '' Mind you bring a nice song to my
Soiree Musicale next Saturday'*

When Ina reached her home that night,
her romantic imagination had already begun
to picture the face and form of the brave
young nobleman who was too proud to die
like a coward, but said he would rather work
hard and face the world unaided.

As days went on, other things banished
this idea from Ina's mind. And, when she
entered the Contessa's drawing-room on the
evening of the musical party, she had already
quite forgotten the poor nobleman.

She was dressed in white silk, and wore a
diamond spray in her dark brown hair. She
looked handsome, but cold and impassive as
usual. Later in the evening she sang the
promised song. She had a beautiful voice,
and sang fearlessly. When she had reached
the middle of the piece, she became aware
of the presence of a tall, handsome young
man standing in a corner of the room
with his dark eyes fixed upon her, and fine
melancholy face full of an intense and
passionate admiration. Her eyes fell before
his, her pale face flushed, and she found it
difficult to continue her song. She felt almost

inclined to be angry with him ; but there was
something in his face that interested her in
spite of herself.

After she had finished her song, she saw
this young man go up to their hostess and
speak to her. Ina remarked this, for she
knew, almost without looking, that he had
remained in his corner silent and alone until
that time. After saying a few words, the
Contessa Francolin took the gentleman's
arm, and walked with him across the room to
where Ina sat, saying :

Allow me to present to you the Conte
Bentivoglio ! "

Ina felt herself blush, and longed to detain
her hostess. But, before she could say a
word, the young man had seated himself by
her side, and was complimenting her upon
her singing.

That her prince of romance and romantic-looking
admirer should be one and the same
person, was a wonderful co-incidence; and
it made Ina feel most unaccountably shy.
She who had always been so quiet and self-possessed
in society, now blushed continually
and laughed and spoke nervously.

The young man made himself very agreeable

to her ; for he was well-informed and
intelligent. But it was the halo of romance
about him, and not his handsome face or
fascinating manners, that won him that gentle
heart. She untied him so much. He showed
his admiration for her in every look and
gesture, until they parted at her carriage
door.

As they were driving home, Mrs. Hume
said to Ina :

"My dear girl, I have never, in my life
had reason to accuse you of flirting or encouraging
gentlemen, — far from it, I have
had cause to sigh over, the good offers you
have refused. But, I must say, to-night you
have surprised me ! You appeared to me to
be actually interested in that poor spendthrift
Venetian."

Oh ! Aunt, I am sure I did nothing
maidenly, I — "

'' I did not say you did ; only you must not
let that young man talk to you so much. It
is evident that he has fallen desperately in
love with you. Everyone could see that ;
therefore you had better discourage him
before he makes a proposal. Remember,
he is very poor ! "

'' As if that was a reason for refusing him
His poverty is no crime."

'' You are an odd girl, and I never could
understand you. But you will allow that he
was a gambler?"

'' Has been; he is reformed ! And surely,
it is our duty to encourage one who is striving
to be virtuous."

'but, his religion — "

''He tired to be sceptical, but now he is
serious ; and if his views are mistaken, anyway
he is in earnest."

'' Oh, Ina, Ina, where are you drifting to !
Surely, you silly child, you have not fallen
in love?"

Oh, do not ! please, aunt — " said Ina,
blushing hotly, her maiden delicacy being
affronted by the mere suggestion.

But all that night she dreamt of a ruined
prince with dark eyes and a soft voice. And
from that time, Ina Laurence could never
again smile at the world in proud disdain,
and say that she was, " in maiden meditation
fancy free."

Another PAIR OF Lovers.

AT the period which we had reached in
our story when we were forced to go
back, Ina had, as we said, been residing for
three years in Florence. She was now twenty-four
years old ; and she had been engaged
for six months to Conte Carlo Bentivoglio,
whom she had known for a year. Mrs.
Hume had been much against the match;
but Ina, full of pity and romantic generosity,
had insisted on it — and Mrs. Hume was
forced to give up useless remonstrance. Ina
could not be said to hioio her lover's character,
but her active imagination had
clothed him with shining qualities and noble
aspirations. She had not even seen him very
frequently, until her engagement ; but after
that, their interviews were more frequent,
although their intimate knowledge of each
other was not much greater than before.
For, whenever Ina tried to introduce serious

topics of conversation. Carlo managed to
evade the subject by an endearing expression
or a caress. His smile banished all uneasiness
for the time. But after lie had left her,
Ina would think over what he had said, and,
by degrees, doubts began to insinuate themselves
into her mind. She grew uneasy, and
her romantic fancy was no longer all
pleasure to her. She also heard that he was
not very industrious in his profession, and.
she perceived that his visits and attentions
to herself grew less constant. All this
pained her greatly ; but she still loved the
being her fancy had created, and hoped for
the best. She told herself that no one could
be reformed in an instant, and that, as
idleness had been the habit of his life, it
was not easy for him to work steadily. It
was her duty to be his good angel, and to
spur him on in the Battle of Life. Surely,
this was a noble mission !

Ina was now standing alone on the terrace,
gazing dreamily into the street below. After
a time she walked across to the rose-trees, and
stood contemplating the beautiful flowers.
The sun shone on the Gloire de Dijon roses,
and made their hearts glow with a warm transparent

golden light. Ina bent over them
admiringly, and drank in their delicious
fragrance. She made a beautiful picture,
standing in the sunlight. Her features were
fairly regular, her hair brown, her eyes a soft
tender colour, a mixture of grey and hazel ;
her complexion was delicate as a wild rose,
her brow broad and high, and her pretty
mouth was both sensitive and generous.
The expression of her face was altogether
sweet and noble. As she smelt the roses, she
sighed :

'' I wonder whether Carlo will come today
! " a slight shadow passed over her face.
*' He does not come to see me often now.
Ah ! but I must not blame him, he has his
work to do ; and he is poor, and needs to
work : for he says he does not mean to live
upon my fortune. He will not let people say
that he married me for money. I honour
him for his pride, and I would not be the
one to keep him from his duties. But

j>

and she sighed again.

At that moment her aunt came to the
window of the larger drawing-room, and,
opening it, called across to Ina. The
windows were on a level with the terrace,

and the garden between was so small that
Mrs. Hume's voice was carried across easily.
She spoke with ai affected drawl, though
her manner was naturally impulsive and
peremptory.

*' Ina, my love, what is the use of your
wasting your time there ? I am going to
call on the Principes Cardigliano, and there
are sure to be plenty of the Nobility at her
house, and I daresay I shall receive some
nice introductions. You had better come
with me ! "

^' My dear aunt, you know that I do not
care for the Nobility, or any other strangers."

'* You are certainly an odd girl, and
give yourself airs of superiority at times.
But, if you do not care to go for the sake of
the Nobility, you might at least come to
please me."

Ina blushed. "I am expecting Carlo,
aunt. But do not let us go on talking here,
for I see that the neighbours are looking at
us curiously."

'' Oh ! very well, if you expect Carlo, of
course there is nothing more to be said.
You are simply infatuated about that young
man, who is the worst match of any who

have asked you. I know of fifty good
husbands you might still have."

** I am sure, aunt, you are mistaken;
there are not so many stupid men in
Florence. And then, you know, I never
cared about a good match — and now you
should not even talk of such things tome!
" said Ina indignantly, and she walked
away to put a stop to her aunt's conversation.


Looking over the wall, she saw the
carriage driven out of the stable and round
towards the front door, and she knew that
her aunt must have gone out now. And
still — he came not.

At last she heard the front door-bell ring,
and then — ah, yes ! — there he was in the
garden below, and now he was bounding up
the steps — and now, standing by her side.
Ah ! how noble and handsome he looked.

Ina might be excused for admiring her
lover's appearance ; he was in truth a fine-looking
young man, and many thought him
handsome. But the more discriminating
thought the lower part of his face heavy, his
lips too thick, and his forehead low and
narrow, his eyes restless, and his smile too

ready. Some of these persons had been
cruel enough to compare his style of beauty
to that of a barber's block. But his
admirers called him the Apollo Belvedere.
His hair was black and wavy, and so was his
moustache; his eyes were large and black,
and his teeth white as pearls — which fact
people always noticed, for he showed them
whenever he smiled. He was tall, with a
handsome figure and soldierly carriage, and
he dressed with dandified care.

He saluted Ina affectionately, in spite of
the numerous neighbours who stood or sat
at their windows looking on.

'' Ah, my beautiful Ina, you must have
thought me a bad truant ! But know, I
have had much business to do, for I am poor
and must work hard. How I have sighed
for this happy moment ! Forgive me,
Caressing ! "

He spoke English to her, for at one time
he had stayed five years in England and
learnt the language with tolerable accuracy,
although he used Italian idioms.

Ina smiled rather sadly. '* Of course you
must work, Carlo, but I have certainly
missed you; for the time always seems so
long when you are away*'

Dearest ! " and his dark eyes were full
of passionate admiration as lie looked at her.

'* How have you been employing yourself;
have you had much legal work. Carlo ? "

He shifted his feet uneasily; perhaps it
would not have been exactly convenient to
tell her how he had been employing his
time. Luckily for him, she had no gentlemen
relatives to tell her that they had met
him at the Government Lottery, cafes, or
theatres. So he was able to keep up the
farce of his pretended reformation to this
simple-minded young woman, who thought
no evil, and knew so little of the world.

Oh, yes ! I have had my business, of
course, and then there are so many things
to employ a man's time."

Ina's face grew anxious. '' Carlo, dear, I
hope you do not let anything come between
you and your business ? I sometimes fear
that you take life a little too easily ; for you
know every one is placed in this world to be
of some use ; and a man should bo ambitious,
and put his whole heart and soul into his
work." ■

*' ISTot a nobleman ! " said he, drawing
himself up.

Yes, he should, for I mean a noble man.

And then, I thought you had resolved to
work, and I admired you for your determination."


'' Of course I had ; I was obliged to work,
and I shall continue to work ; but, divine !
I cannot be expected to like it ! I was not
born to that sort of thing. But it seems tome
that you scold me for not working hard
enough because I have not been here ; you
would not have minded yourself taking up
my time ! Do you wish to quarrel with me,
Ina?"

His words had made her turn pale; for
they hastened the process of disenchantment
that had already begun for her.
Where was the noble-minded man, resolute
to work and strive ! The real man worked
only because he was obliged. Had these
words of his been spoken sooner, they might
have proved serviceable in preventing Ina
from ever loving him ; but now, alas ! imaginative
pity had turned to true affection, and
she could not, without pain, cease to love him.

Oh, no ! Carlo, I did not wish to take
you from your work, or to quarrel with you.
What I meant was, that a man should have
an object in life — a noble aim."

"My object in life is to love you, Care.
My aim, to win you for my wife ."

'' Oh, Carlo ! you should have higher aims
than that. But you cannot be in earnest, for
I know that you have become religious now."

'' My religion is to worship you ! "

Ina's face expressed her disapprobation.
** Do not speak like that ; you hurt and pain
me ! Whenever I introduce serious subjects
of conversation, you pay me idle compliments;
surely it is now time that we should try to
learn each other's views of life. Of course,
I know that our religion is not the same, but,
at least, we may both be earnest, liberal, and
sincere. Do not speak lightly of serious
subjects, please, for I know that you do not
really mean it."

"Yes, I do!" he added, defiantly. ''1
believe in nothing but this world — Stature is
my only God, and, whilst I live, I mean to
enjoy myself as much as possible; for I
believe that when I die I shall turn to dust.
You are angry, I see, that T do not love my
work. Why should I ? It is far pleasant
to be idle ! I chose to live, when others
advised suicide, because I had no wish to
cease to exist. My religion ! cic ! I have

none. I only go to church for the appearance
of the thing."

Ina turned still paler, and tears stood in
her eyes. At length she said, in a low, hesitating
voice, '* I pity you. Carlo, I pity you
with my whole heart — but if those are really
your opinions, I think they are very dreadful ;
and I fear we could never be happy together.
I wish I had known this sooner — but I was
given to understand that — that — Oh ! Carlo,
all must be over between us ! " And, without
looking at him, she ran quickly down the
steps.

He followed her, and caught her hand in
his. " Stay, Ina ! Tell me what you mean !
You cannot really intend to cast me aside !
Diavolo ! you cannot break an engagement
all in a moment ! I will be heard ! Listen,
Ina, I love you with my whole heart, and it
would be madness and death to me to lose
you ! I did wrong, perhaps, in speaking so
frankly to you ; but I was exasperated and
hasty. Must I suffer for telling the truth ?
And if my belief, or rather unbelief, is bad
and false, you should pity and not blame me.
Is it right to turn away from me because I
have the misfortune to be an atheist — a

sceptic ? Should you not, rather, try to
teach me better ? May not a sinner repent ? "

She stood irresolute — with tears in her
eyes, and quivering lips.

** I did not call you a sinner, Carlo 1 Unbelief
is a terrible misfortune, but it is
profanity that makes the sinner. In truth,
I fear that we two could never be
happy together — our ideas are so widely
apart."

'* I am very liberal ; cannot I adopt your
views ? " he added, in pleading tones.

You do not wish to, I fear ! "

'' Try me 1 But stay — Ina, you say that
our ideas are different ; I had thought that
in one respect at least they agreed — I used
to think that you loved me as I love you.
I now fear that I was mistaken."

'mistaken ! oh, no, Carlo. My only fear is,
that I love you too well."

'* I am not afraid of that," and, placing his
arm around her, he added — " And am I to
consider myself as rejected, or are things to
remain as they were ? Will you marry me
this autumn as you promised, Care?"

*• Yes, Carlo. But, oh ! do not betray ray
trust — promise me that you will try to become

L

what I thought you ; try not to remain a
sceptic ! "

I will try, Bella mia. And teachings from
your hips will sound sweet to my ears, and
not like the eternal preach, preach, of the
old priests."

Soon after this Carlo left his betrothed.
As he strolled down the street, he wore an
air of triumph. '•' I love her passionately,"
he thought, " and I could not live without
her. It was not her money that first attracted
me — it was her beautiful self that I loved
from the moment I beheld her. But she is
always a little too much ' on the high ropes,'
as the English phrase it. I can admire and
forgive much enthusiasm in so beautiful a
woman ; but at times it becomes a little wearisome.
She has always been at me, trying to
find out my religious views. I thought I had
managed to evade the subject rather cleverly,
but to-day she was too hard on me, and, therefore,
heard my opinions a little too plainly.
I was in a cursed temper, and nearly ruined
my own cause ! I love her truly — but, of
course, I also like the idea of having a fortune
and being able to give up work. Ah ! the
little idiot, she thinks I mean to go on toiling

after marriage ! I certainly find this courtship
long, and it is very hard work. Luckily
for me, there are other women in the world
with whom I can laugh and flirt — women
who admire me without expecting great deeds
from me. I can always unbend my mind
with these lesser luminaries, after visiting
my star " — and he walked contentedly along.
When Ina was freed from the fascination
of her lover's presence, she thought over
their conversation more dispassionately. It
filled her mind with fear and dark forebodings.
Many of her romantic illusions
were roughly dispelled; but she comforted
herself with the thought, that, if not a
religious or hard-working man, Carlo was, at
least, a good man, and her true lover. She
hoped she might be able to convert him, as hein
his tender protestations had hinted ; for
she felt that it would be a terrible thing to
marry a man who possessed no fixed religious
principles. " I pitied him before," she
thought, '' and now I pity him a thousand
times more. Poor fellow ! it is evident the
Roman Catholic creed did not satisfy him.
I must teach him to become a Protestant.
And then, he was not b]'oiiglit up to work,
I. 2

and so I cannot expect him to love it.
must not become severe towards his faults
/ who have so many myself! I must pray for
him — and hope — and trust in Providence.
And tr}^ to teach him to be better,"

Not a very bright beginning to a girl's
courtship this — or a particularly fascinating
'Dover's quarrel." There was a strong resemblance
between the characters of In a and
Plessis, in spite of their position in life being
so different. Ina also was an idealist, and she
too had dreamed a dream of love — but the
time for her partial awakening had already
come. And she saw how different was the
man she had imagined, to the man to whom
she was actually betrothed. And yet, she
did not cease to love her fancy because she
pitied Carlo's faults so much, and, with a true
woman's romantic instinct, longed to save —
to uplift him, and make him all that she had
once thought him. But there were things
about him of which she knew nothing, and
which, had she known them, would most
certainly have prevented her from marrying
him. Still she loved him with a pitiful,
imaginative love. She had been full of
enthusiastic admiration, she was now full of

enthusiastic pity. She believed him good,
and respected and admired him as one who
had undergone a moral reformation. Beneath
the snow and ice of her outward
manner there lay much tender feeling —
faithfulness — self-sacrifice — and resolution.
She was simple and unworldly, but impulsive
and romantic. A pure and innocent
maiden dreamer of vain dreams.

First DOUBTS.

AFTER the betrothal, all seemed to go well
with the family living near the Ponte
Vecchio. Plessis was enjoying his happiness,
and continued to love his ideal Columba.
Good Sunta was very happy and gay, and so
was Columba. Only Fortunata shook her
head, and muttered to herself : " * Every
serpent has its poison,' and one may as well
try to ' pound water in a mortar,' as expect
to make a good wife of that little owl ! "

Columba had now established a custom of,
almost daily, walking out alone to visit her
cousin Nicoletta. She chose those hours of
the day when the others were occupied in
the house or shop — she would then beg hard
to be allowed to visit her cousin. And,
although none of them liked her going alone,
they could not resist her pleading. When
they asked her if the young men in the
streets ever spoke to, or followed her, she

said that she walked so quickly that no one
had time even to call her " pretty," as she
passed.

It was now August, and, consequently,
extremely hot in the " City of Lilies." There
were few people in the streets at mid-day ;
and all foreigners were migrating fast. The
pavements of the Lung-Arno burnt the feet
that trod them, and the sun beat down upon
the unfortunate heads that exposed themselves
to its scorching rays.*

Plessis sat alone in his shop, looking
through the glass with a troubled expression
upon his face. He started when he felt a
sudden touch on his shoulder, and turning,
saw his mother.

'what trouble hast thou, oh ! my son ? "

It is nothing of importance, dear Mother.
I am anxious about Columba, without reason,
possibly. It does not please me that she
goes put so much."

She is young, my son, and she likes to
divert herself by walking."

Could she not find enough diversion
here ? Body of Bacchus, will she not have
to spend her life here ? "

♦ The heat was at 107° Fahr., in the shade.

*soh, my son, she is a woman, and ' who
is born of a hen is bound to crow ! ' Do not
thou become jealous. Permit not such suspicions
to enter thy mind. Thy Columba is
young, but with time she will become more
serious. If thou hast truly fear for her, we
had better send her home at once."

Oh, no. Mother ! I could not live without
seeing her beautiful face. I am an idiot to
have these thoughts. I will drive them
away, and we will speak no more of them ! "

'* Do you not think, oh, my son, that it
would be well for thee to become more
religious ? Love for a woman is a good
thing, but the love of the Madonna is far
more precious."

'^ I cannot bear the priests. Mother; I hold
them in detestation. I am of no sect. I
feel more inclined to become a Protestant
than a Roman Catholic ; for with our priests
I think it is truly ' near the church, far from
God ! ' I am not without religion. Mother,
for I love my Bible, and study it with great
interest; and I try my best to follow the
teachings of the Holy Scriptures."

Ohirae ! my son, thou art become a
heretic. It stabs my heart to hear thee

speak thus ! I think that we should be constant
to that faith in which we are born ; we
should never strive to learn more; for
knowledge is a dangerous thing. I believe
that our religion is the best ; and I wish not
to hear of new ideas. I am content not to
understand the holy mysteries. I would only
believe as the priests tell me."

'* Alas ! Mother, that is but a blind
faith P'

It is faith, though, Plessis. And with
faith we acquire Paradise. It is heresy that
sends us to the Inferno. Take good care,
my son, that thou enter not the Eternal
Fires."

Seeing that he was paining his mother by
expounding his orthodox views, Plessis did
not attempt further argument, but said
gently :

*thou wilt pray for me, Mother, and,
though I were black as the Devil himself,
thy prayers might save me."

His mother kissed him lovingly — but she
sighed as she went from the room. At that
same instant the glass door of the shop
opened, and a young lady entered from the
street.

The hot sunlight streamed in through the
open door, and shone upon the graceful
figure that appeared to Plessis as a glorified
vision. Lover-like, he immediately compared
her with Columba ; but he could not help
admitting to himself that this was a higher,
nobler type of beauty than his little betrothed's.
He was a poet, and could read
this face aright. He saw at once that she
was a woman out of the common ; and a
mysterious affinity, a certain power of
sympathy, made him admire this unknown
lady. She was tall and handsome, but what
struck him the most was the nobility and
purity that beamed forth from her countenance.
And his heart was touched by a
certain wistful sadness that lay in her soft
dreamy eyes. Had she also a poetic soul,
and did she love an ideal creature ? Had
she also been disappointed in her hopes ?

But and he was suddenly recalled to

himself. What had a young tradesman todo
with the souls of his lady customers ! The
idea was so ridiculous that he almost laughed
aloud. After all, it was the sJioj) that made
his thoughts seem incongruous, and not the
man himself. He felt a momentary regret

that he possessed this business ; for if he
relinquished it he might become an artist in
earnest, and, possibly, some day immortalize
the lovely face before him.

Will you show me some rings suitable
for a gentleman ? "

'' With pleasure, Signorina ; have you the
size?"

*' Oh, yes, I have it here," she replied,
producing a plain gold ring.

Plessis then took out a tray containing
fine diamond and other rings for her inspection,
and picked out a few of the best.

After looking at and admiring them, she
selected one, a ruby, and asked the price.

Plessis replied, " 600 francs is the price,
Signorina ; it is a rare specimen, and a very
fine stone. You have excellent taste, in
truth!"

Is that your lowest price ? I do not
like the habit of bargaining, and I wish you
to tell me at once the just price."

Signorina, I have told you the just price,
and I could not give it to you for a soldo
less. Your Signore will be fortunate to
acquire so good a ring."

The young lady blushed, and then sighed.

Taking out her purse, she paid for the ring,
and, saying good-day, she left the shop.

Plessis watched her walk down the street.

'' She is English. How beautiful a
creature ! She is not married, and that ring
must be for her lover. I do not think she
is fortunate either. Perhaps her betrothed
also loves to divert himself by walking away
from her ! But, ciel ! what am I saying ?
I to complain of my beautiful one. I am a
bosnia ! '*

And, when Columba returned, Plessis was
particularly kind and attentive in his manner
to her.

When Plessis told her of the beautiful
English girl, Columba did not appear the least
jealous or annoyed by his enthusiastic praise
of another. But her manner was slightly
distraite, for she had never felt the least
liking for, or interest in, any other young
woman — though she studied their dresses
and often coveted them. She was too sure
of Plessis' s love to feel jealousy. She did
not even care for his compliments now ;
possession had lessened his value in her
eyes, and his words had lost the charm of
novelty. He did not seem such a remarks



ably good match, for, after all, lie thought,
a jeweller was not a gentleman.

Columba's head was quite turned now —
her jewellery, dresses, and, above all, her
liberty, had entirely upset her mental balance,
and she seemed wild with youthful mirth.
Poor Plessis, he certainly was not tired of
Columba, but he could not understand why
it was that he and his betrothed never
seemed to grow any nearer to each other in
their sympathies or aspirations ; he loved
her as well as ever, yet doubts had begun to
intrude themselves upon his mind.

Columba did not miss her mother, and
hardly showed any pleasure when she and
her father came to visit her. But she expressed
a strong desire not to return home
yet. She seemed pre-occupied. The good
Sunta noticed the change in Columba's manner,
and concluded that it was caused by
love for Plessis. Simonee was too worldly to
think of love at all, but he congratulated
himself on his daughter's future being so well
settled. As for Caterina, simple woman
though she was, the mother's instinct in her
made herw^ise, and quick to perceive anything
that concerned her darling. She was not

easy about her child, and shed many tears in
secret, as she fervently prayed to the Madonna
that " everything should have a good
result ! "

Fortunata still croaked evilly of Columba,
as she grumbled to herself, saying :

' Still waters destroy bridges ! ' "

THE BLOW.

APPARENTLY, Columba bad quite forgotten
poor Bertoldo. She hardly
seemed to listen, when one day her mother
said to her, " Poor fellow ! It gives me pain
to think how he has gone to the bad."

Columba merely shrugged her shoulders,
and replied : " It matters nothing to me ! "

Poor Caterina sighed as she perceived
how her child's heart was hardened.

It was a few days after the young English
lady had bought the ruby ring. Plessis, his
mother, aunt, and betrothed were all seated
at breakfast together, when Columba said :

'' Can I go to visit my cousin Nicoletta
to-day, Signora Sunta?"

She asked permission as a mere matter of
form, for these visits had now become of
almost daily occurrence.

Plessis frowned as he bent over his
plate — and Sunta sighed ; but neither spoke.

Fortunata, however, raised her voice, in
violent declamation against the " selfish '*
maimer in which Columba spent her time.
For, in her way, Fortunata was fond of her rich
and talented nephew. And her wrath against
Columba, which had long been simmering,
now reached boiling-point. She did not wish
Plessis to marry Columba, but she had no
idea of permitting the girl to make light of
the honour he had been willing to bestow
upon her.

*' Anima mia ! but thou art an idle girl.
Think you that that is the way to become a
good wife? Always going out to walk, to
walk — always for diversion ! Ah ! for thee to
make a good wife, it needs a thousand years.
Thou wouldst have one ' take fireflies for
Ian thorns.' Thou art not the wife for our
poor Plessis. There is Doratrice Carpi —
she is a girl of merit. Arch-priest ! but she
is a saint ! Believe me, she sews like an
angel, and irons like a goddess ! And as
for thy Columba, she thinks of nothing but
admiring herself, and ' going to the walk.'
Listen in time, Plessis, for ' a man warned
is half saved.' I say to thee, Plessis, and
to thee also, Sunta, that you are both two

fools ! Why do you permit this child to
govern you ? Dio mio ! Why do you not
forbid her going out ? "

Plessis, in his heart, agreed with some of
the sentiments expressed in this tirade — at
least, he very much disliked her desire
to take her pleasure separate from him.
But, when he now looked at Columba, she
immediately began to cry ; so, how could he
sympathize with that sour old maid, his
aunt, in preference to this little rose-bud
with the dew-drops in her eyes ? He
started up, and, throwing his arms round
Columba, pressed her to his heart, kissing
her tenderly.

'' Ah, my little dove ! Have no fear ;
no one shall give thee pain whilst thy
Plessis lives ! Go out when thou wilt, and
where thou wilt — leave thy lover, if it pleases
thee to take from him the ' light of his eyes.'
This heart is thine, and thou art its mistress."

*' It is well to pay me compliments,
Plessis, but why do you permit that wicked
old witch to say evil of me ? You are cruel,
all of you, and I will go home at once ! "

Unfortunate aunt ! See what thou hast
done," said Plessis, reproach fully.
M

Fortunata smiled grimly.

'' It is a serious affair, in truth ! Believe
me, nephew, there is no great harm done.
Let her talk; she will not go. Thickest
thou that she would prefer the country to
the city, simplicity to luxury ? Che ! More
likely ' the Devil will make himself a Capuchin.'
You do not understand women ;
when you have reached my years, you will
know a pebble from a diamond. Do you
believe it ? Ah, no ! the beautiful Columba
knows her own interest. She will stay
here, even though the poor old aunt should
talk her tongue off ! "

'' I hope so. But, I say to thee, aunt,
that I pray thee to do me the pleasure to
remain silent."

Mamma mia 1 what an affair is this !
You shall be obeyed, nephew. See, Sunta
mia, when Love enters the heart all the poor
relations count as nothing. Young men
have but little judgment ; to reason with
them is but 'barking at the moon.' I never
believed in the men ; they are all fools or
asses, liars or madmen. Marriage is a great
madness. Ah 1 Holy Virgin, keep us from
it ! "

Attend not to lier, Columba ; lie knows
not the sweetness of love," whispered Plessis,
as he kissed his betrothed again.

Thou ruffles t my hair, Plessis ! "

** Heed not that, dear one ! Thou wilt ever
be most beautiful. But, tell me, thou wilt
not leave us ? Thou forgives all ? "

*eyes, certainly," said Columba, magnanimously
— for, having gained her point and
silenced the enemy, she could afford to be
generous. But she had wit enough to take
advantage of the present opportunity — for
she added, petulantly, "But I go the next
time I am reproved thus."

It shall never happen again, beloved."

So Columba went to her room, and put
on a prettier dress, and then walked out
majestically. La Fortunata watched her
maliciously ^ — her lover with sadness.

Poor Plessis ! He was losing his inspiration
; he could neither write nor paint as he
used to do. What could be the cause of
this ? Surely, not his love ! He knew that
a true and noble love should raise, inspire,
elevate. What Beatrice was to Dante,
Leonora to Tasso, Laura to Petrarch,
Columba should have been to him. Why
M 2

did his love cease to inspire, to satisfy
him ! Was it that those fair and noble
ladies were different to Columba, or did the

fault lie in himself! Yes, surely and

yet the truth was, how could he write or
paint with a mind so ill at ease ! He was
anxious and troubled. He tried to drive
from his mind all thoughts of what he had
fancied his ideal woman might have been —
for these ideas were too exalted, he told
himself, and he must not be hard on his
little Columba, who was good, innocent,
pure, and true, he thought.

Plessis stood idly at the shop-door, listening
to the street cries and noises. He saw
a man pass with a truck filled with fruit and
vegetables, and heard him call out :

" Salamanca grapes ! Oh ! how they
are yellow, yellow ! They would get out
of the galleys to come and eat them !
Beans like silk ! Figs, oh ! Figs, oh !
"Who wants the figs ? Beautiful beans !
To-mama — toes 1 "

And then, another man, selling ice, cried
aloud, very much through his nose :

Street cries translated literally.

Ice, oil ! ell ! Ice, oh ! eli ! Ali, there
the true ice goes ! How it is frozen ! "

And then came the rag-man, crying :

''Oh, women ! Ra-rara — ragman ! I
take horrid boots, horrid umbrellas, horrid
hats. Oh ! ra-ra-ra-ragman ! "

But, although he heard them, Plessis
heeded not these quaint cries. He was
thinking only of Columba, and looking sadly
down the street, with unseeing eyes, un-hearing
ears.

He did not even perceive Columba running
down the street — and, therefore, gave a great
start when she rushed into his arms, panting,
tearful, and indignant. She burst out crying,
and continued to sob convulsively in spite of
his tender caresses and endearments.

"What trouble hast thou, my angel? I
pray thee speak! "

Oh ! Plessis, he has insulted me 1 "

Accursed be he ! But, Holy Heavens ! tell
me who is the rascal ? that I may kill him ! "

No ! Caro, thou must not kill him ; but
thou must avenge, me. It is the wicked
Bertoldo, who sprang out upon me and asked
me if I was going to marry thee — and when
I replied that I was thy betrothed, he called

me perfidious, and many other bad names.
And, when I told him that he was mad and
drunk, then he struck me. Yes, he struck
me, Plessis ! "

'' Thousand devils ! "

'^ And after that, I said to him : ' Thou art
but a coward, Bertoldo, to strike a girl. And,
believe me, I will never speak with thee more.'
And then, he seemed mortified. But, before
he could make any reply, I left him and ran
home."

'rand where did thou meet this cruel
man, my beautiful one ? "

On the Yiale that goes from the Porta
?anta Croce to the iron bridge above the
Ponte Carrara ; it was near the beginning of
this Yiale where the Lung-Arno della Mecca
Yecchia ends."

It is well, and if he be there tomorrow
at this same hour, Bertoldo will speak with
me there."

Be not too furious ! "

'' Have still faith in me, Colombia ! "

All that day, both Columba and Plessis
appeared remarkably quiet and thoughtful.
But they did not tell any one else of what

had occurred, neither did they speak of it
to each other.

The next morning Plessis left the shop in
the charge of his head workman, and sallied
forth upon his errand. He had only gone a
few paces down the street, when Columba ran
after him and stopped him.

'' You will not kill him ! Or get killed
yourself, Plessis ! "

He smiled rather sadly, as he kissed the
beautiful, flushed face.

'* Ah ! my Colombina, when wilt thou
know thy Plessis, and learn to have faith in
him ! Believe me, dearest, I would not hurt
the poor fellow ; I would only give him a
reproof. Yesterday I spoke in anger, words
without value ! Good-bye, my beautiful one,
all will go well''

And thus, he left her. But, as he walked
down the Lung-Arno, his mind was filled
with dark forebodings. Hitherto, he had
been simple, unsuspicious, and trusting;
but now a terrible fear seized him — it
was, that he should in the future always
doubt his Columba. The reason was,
that he had noticed a certain suspicious
circumstance that had failed to strike him

the day before, when passion had filled
his heart. This strange circumstance was,
that Nicoletta Placci lived in the Ia
Monticello, therefore, in an exactly opposite
direction to the Lung-Arno della
Mecca Vecchia. What could Columba have
been doing near that iron bridge, and for
what purpose had she deceived them all ?
Plessis was of so truthful and trusting a disposition,
that he had the greatest horror of
falsehood. Like a knight of old, he wished
to be faithful unto death to the perfect lady
of chivalrous romance — and for this end he
had unfortunately chosen a particularly imperfect
little mortal. And he knew that if
he discovered that his Columba was not
good, true, and loving as he had fancied her,
that then — nothing would remain for him to
idealize except her beauty. If she was his inferior
morally, as well as intellectually, what
would remain for him to love and admire ?
But, as yet, he did not know her real character
— he was merely troubled by a vague
uneasiness, a sudden half-formed suspicion.

The sun glared down upon the pavement,
and made it burn beneath his feet ; the sky
was an intense and cloudless blue, and the

air hot and oppressive. Few persons ventured
to walk along the Lung-Arno that
morning. But Plessis did not feel the heat
he walked on with head erect, and an
expression of troubled thought in his eyes.
When he had passed the last house upon the
Lung-Arno della Zecea Yecchia, and also
the iron bridge, he walked on until the commencement
of the Yiale, and then began looking
around for Bertoldo. He did not mean
to do his rival any injury ; but he did mean
to tell him to keep out of Colomba's«way.

The Viale, or large street, of which columba
had spoken, was one of several broad
roads or boulevards that encircle the city.
And this particular Yiale went from the Arno
to the Porta Santa Croce, and then, on again
past the old Protestant cemetery to the Porta
San Gallo. The commencement of the road
near the Arno was almost countrified in appearance,
lying between fields with stunted
trees on either side of it.

Standing on the Lung-Arno, at the entrance
of this Yiale, was Bertoldo; looking
over into the water. Plessis noticed
how much his rival had changed for the
worse ; for, though not intoxicated at present,

he showed signs of his having been frequently
in that condition. Plessis laid his hand
gently upon Bertoldo's arm, who started, and
glared at his fortunate rival.

'^Bertoldo Fossi, you wait for Columba
Vestries ! "

'* I am waiting for Columba," returned the
other defiantly.

'* Waiting for her that you may strike her
is that worthy of a man, to strike a girl ? ' '

Bertoldo's cheek flushed, but he replied
angrily : — '' She is a flirt ! And you are a
brutal ox ! Know that she loves me really.
Yes ! she loves me, and has even let me take
the kiss of love — but, after that, you came,
oh, accursed one ! and robbed me of my
beautiful beloved. But, hear me ! she
marries you only for your riches, and she
deserts the man she loves with all her heart.
Be you happy with your flirt for a wife !
Strike her ? ' Yes ! truly, I would strike her
again most gladly. I would strike her again
and again, and give my heart's blood to
acquire that gratification ! "

Plessis' s eyes flashed, but he only said :
'' You are a liar and a brute dog ! "

Then, quick as thought, Bertoldo took out

a large clasp knife, opened it, and threw
himself upon Plessis with evil intent.

'' Die, Barnabas ! " he cried.

Plessis closed with him, and his wonderful
strength, added to his coolness and courage,
enabled him to easily master the infuriated
and desperate young man. Bertoldo had
also lost much of his former strength by his
recent course of mad dissipation. Plessis
seized the knife, and held Bertoldo in a grasp
of iron. Struggling in impotent rage, the
young man's face became contorted by wild
fury — he felt weak as a child in this firm and
immoveable grasp. And yet, strange to say,
the victor took no advantage of the position,
but merely held him quiet. At length
Bertoldo fancied that he heard approaching
footsteps — and, with a sudden wrench, he
freed himself from Plessis' s hold, and dashed
down the Viale and into a field. Running,
blindly, madly on. Plessis followed with the
open knife in his hand. If any person had
seen them, he would have supposed that
Plessis meant to murder Bertoldo. In
reality, he never thought of the knife in his
hand, and only followed Bertoldo because he
wished to question him, and because a certain

humane instinct impelled him to try to benefit
the poor young fellow, who was not in a fit
condition to be left to himself.

Bertoldo heard footsteps behind him, and
his excited imagination magnified the sound
into that of many persons in pursuit — probably
they were the guards, he thought.
He would not pause to look, but ran on
desperately — until, suddenly, his foot tripped
over a stone, and he fell prostrate on his
face. It was on some sharp stones that he
lay, and they had cut his forehead badly.
He remained motionless, bleeding, and insensible.


In an instant, Plessis flung the knife from
him, and was kneeling beside the prostrate
Bertoldo. Hitherto, he had felt angry with
his rival on account of his unmanly behaviour
towards Columba ; with regard to the attack
on himself, he had never borne the slightest
malice ; but now, when he saw his rival lying
wounded and helpless on the ground, all his
anger melted away, and a deep pity filled his
heart. He took the young man's head upon
his knee, and gently bound his bleeding
forehead with his pocket-handkerchief. Ashe
looked at Bertoldo, his pity grew;

for lie saw the marks of terrible suffering,
and wild and reckless dissipation. And
he knew that it was for the love of a
woman that this strong man had been laid
low. What a terrible passion love must be —
surely, it was not altogether a good thing !
He could not, however, consider the matter
then, for he was thinking that he had won
the woman poor Bertoldo loved. He also
knew how he would himself have felt had
he been in his rival's place. And, as he
thought of this, he gently wiped the blood
from Bertoldo' s cheek, touching him tenderly
as his own mother could have done.
At that moment Bertoldo's eyes opened.

He looked around him in wonder, then
fear grew in his eyes. Raising them to
Plessis's face, he tried to address him
angrily — but meeting his pitying gaze, he
faltered, and was silent. At length, with an
effort, he said :

'' Why do you look at me thus ? "

Because I have pity for you, poor
fellow."

I desire not your pity ! It would be
better to hate me. Do you not know that I
tried to kill you ? "

You were mad, beside yourself, friend ;
and I feel no anger."

'* But I wish that you should feel anger!
I have been cursing you, and praying that
the accidente and every evil might light
upon you. 1 cannot bear your friendship.
Let me go away!" He strove to rise, but
fell back weak and dizzy. " What the Devil
have I?'* Then, raising his hand to his
forehead, he felt the handkerchief. Without
a word he turned over upon one side, and,
lying with his face to the ground, sobbed
convulsively.

Plessis sat patiently beside him, waiting.
He knew that the man's heart was touched
at last, and that this storm of tears would
relieve the overexcited brain. He felt
that this was a moment of the greatest importance
in the young man's life, when a
friendly hand stretched forth to save him
might stop him in his downward course.
Strange, that what kind words and looks had
failed to effect, a simple act of Christian
charity had done most completely. He twas
touched. Plessis thought, what if Columba
should prove unworthy of his love ! She
must have a very ignorant and innocent

nature, or a very hard one. How else could
lie be so blithe and gay, whilst a man's heart
was breaking for her, a man's soul rushing to
destruction for her sake ? Brought face to
face with such terrible realities, Plessis could
not comfort himself with the idea that love for
himself had made her forget all else. Almost
like a revelation the truth flashed across his
mind, and he knew that Columba had never
loved him. The question now was, had she
loved Bertoldo or only cared for herself?
Bertoldo had asserted that Columba loved
him, and, even if that were false, what was
a heart worth that had no room for pity ?

At last Bertoldo turned round, and, sitting
up, held out his hand to Plessis.

Thou hast conquered me. I cannot hate
thee ! "

Plessis smiled sadly.

That is well, my friend ; for now I have
won the only victory I desire." And he
pressed the offered hand.

'' But thou hast taken my Columba, and I
cannot call thee my friend ! "

No ! Bertoldo Fossi, I have not taken
thy Columba, nor will I take her if she is
thine. I will rob no man, and I will never

marry a wife without I win lier heart. Weare
calm now, friend, and can reason together.
I will tell thee the truth ; I am not
entirely content regarding my betrothed.
She is lively and young, I know, but I fear
that she loves me not. I had hoped in time
to win her heart, but thy words have put
doubts into my mind. Tell me the pure
truth, Fossi; what was there between la
Columba and thee ? "

I swear to thee, Plessis Yalencini, that
I will tell thee the whole truth. Thou art
conducting thyself as a brother towards me,
and thou art far more good than I merit.
La Columba has never told me with words
that she loves me — but she has said it with
the soft manners of a woman. And then,
she permitted me to take a kiss when I gave
her a promise to be silent concerning something.
And, certainly, I always thought she
meant to marry me. For, would a modest
young girl accept a kiss from other than the
man she loved ? Ah ! Signor Plessis, she
has deceived us both, and either loves no
one, or else leaves me for thy gold. Did she
not well deserve my blow ? "

No, truly ! For if she is not what thou

thickest, she may be pure, innocent, and heedless
; and, in that case, she deserves no punishment,
and in giving it, thou modest thyself
unworthy of her. And if she is what thou
thickest — she is a flirt without a heart, and
not worthy of thy love, and thou shouldst
not degrade thyself by striking her. It is
only a coward who strikes a woman ; and,
surely, thou shouldst not let a flirt make a
coward of thee ! "

Thou art right, friend. I have indeed
repented my fault. But, tell me, what
thickest thou of la Columba ?"

Oh, Fossi ! thou pierces my heart, for
I know not how to answer thee. Until
this unfortunate morning, la Columba was
to me as the sun of my day, and I would
sooner have thought that the sun should
change its course than that my love should
prove false. But now, chime ! I fear — I
doubt — thy words have wounded my heart,
and my peace has vanished ! "

"But she is still thine, friend; tlioii hast
the power to marry her." Bertoldo spoke
unselfishly for once, from a sudden impulse
of sympathy with the other's evident grief.

*' No ! it cannot be. If her heart is not
N

mine, she is not for me. It was not only the
beautiful face of my Columba that I loved ; I
thought her sweet eyes were the windows of a
soul a thousand times more beautiful. And if
I find that soul is small and false — what then
is her face ? — only a mask I Think you that
I would marry a woman with a mask ? No !
Life is no masquerade, it is serious and real,
and we live for Eternity. And I would marry
a noble woman, fit to guide my soul to the
Light, and to bless my days for ever."

Bertoldo sighed.

''I cannot understand thee, friend; thou
appeared to me to talk well, but it sounds
like poetry, and not the usual speech of
ordinary conversation. For my part, I love
the beautiful Columba so well that I would
marry her tomorrow if she would take me —
and if I could have her without doing thee
a wrong. All my life I have considered her
as my future wife, and it is too late for me
to change now. She suits me, and I can
think of no other woman. If I win her, all
goes well — I shall, of course, reprove her
for having given us so much trouble ; but
I should soon forget the past, and would
never speak of it more. But, if I win her

not — the sooner the Devil takes me the better
it will be for me !"

Plessis thought sadly of the wide difference
between Bertoldo's feelings and his own —
both loved according to their nature ; but
how different was that nature ! Certainly,
the noble-souled poet had a higher capacity
for intense suffering than the man with a
mere animal intelligence; — but then, Bertoldo
was only capable of entertaining one idea
at a time, and he did so until it grew all-absorbing
— whilst Plessis had other resources
and engrossing pursuits. He loved his art,
too, and was not bound up in the one idea
of loving Columba. Plessis could not regret
that his sensibilities were not blunter, for he
knew that if his capacity for pain was
greater, so also was his capacity for pleasure.
But he already perceived that he had made a
mistake in loving a woman of the same
species as the man before him, — one who
was far better suited to marry Bertoldo than
to become his wife. He would not as yet
acknowledge the full extent of his mistake,
even to himself — but doubts had long been
growing in his mind, and they now gathered
additional force.

N 2

'' It shall be my task to discover the true
sentiments of Columba — if she loves me,
she is mine — if she loves thee, she is thine —
but if she loves neither, she shall be free.
Art thou content ? "

'most content, Signor Plessis. Thou
art a galant'uomo ! The Heavens will bless
thee. But, friend, to speak of the present
time — can you assist me to rise ? For this
accursed knock on the head has robbed me
of all my strength, and I feel myself weak
as a child."

Plessis helped Bertoldo to his feet, and
placed an arm around him to sustain his
trembling frame. The life he had been
leading lately, the outbreak of passion in
which he had just been indulging, and, above
all, the loss of blood from his wound — were
all alike causes that combined to render him
weak and helpless. He was considerably
taller than Plessis, so he easily placed his
arm round his neck, and thus Plessis helped
him to the Lung-Arno. There they luckily
espied a passing fly, which Plessis hailed,
and into which they both mounted. Plessis
told the man to drive to Bertoldo's home
near Fiesole. Plessis was seated by the side

of Bertoldo, who leant back, pale, silent, and
exhausted. The poor fellow's eyes were
closed, and he was evidently suffering greatly.
At the gate of Bertoldo's farm-yard, Plessis
alighted and helped him out, and, after
paying the driver, they went together to the
house door.

Wilt thou not enter, dear brother ? "
No, thank thee, friend, I cannot. Thou
hast no longer need of me now, for others
can assist thee. Good-bye ! "

'' Tell me, when shall I see thee again ? "
I will come tomorrow, and recount to
thee what I have learnt. Thou must remain
quietly in the house, and try not to be too
anxious, Bertoldo mio ! "

'' I will try. Good-bye, to meet again,
Caro ! " And Bertoldo embraced Plessis
warmly, according to the Italian custom.
Plessis was too kind-hearted to object ; but
his chivalrous spirit had long ago caused
him to decide that kisses should only be
bestowed on a man's heart's queen and
female relatives. He never voluntarily embraced
a man ; but he would not hurt the
feelings of his countrymen by refusing an
embrace when it was offered him. And he

knew that poor Bertoldo's heart was full of
loving gratitude towards him, and that
an embrace was his way of expressing his
feelings.

After Plessis had left the injured Bertoldo
at his own house, he did not return home —
but wandered on, lost in thought. He found
himself at the Piazza of Fiesole as evening
approached, and, walking up the hill for a
little way, he turned in at the gate of a
podere.

In this podere was a circle of broken steps
the popular name for which is the Anfi-
teatro, though, in reality, it is nothing of
the kind, being an old theatre similar to
the one in Herculaneum. Popular tradition
alarms that in the seven small caves near
the steps lions were once kept ; though
probably they were but entrances or vestibules
for the actors.

Plessis sat down on one of the broken
steps, and, leaning back against another,
stayed there quietly musing, until it grew
quite late. He did not give a thought to the
people who had lived and breathed and
suffered and enjoyed there so long ago — his
thoughts were all of the realities of his own

life. He sat still, though the shades of
night descended upon the earth. He had
been fighting a hard fight with his Apollyon,
but he had won the mastery. He had been
tempted, but he had resisted ; he had not
fallen, he had conquered. The tempter had
whispered to him that he had been foolish
to promise that Columba should be free if
she loved neither him nor Bertoldo. If he
gave her up, he would lose her for ever, whilst
if he asserted his rights, he might marry her,
and in time teach her to love him. But
these evil thoughts he drove from him
resolutely; for he was determined to keep
his word, cost what it might. His honour
was dearer to him than any woman in the
world — and that love would be too dearly
bought if won at the cost of self-respect.

The moon came out and shone down upon
the world in silver splendour — and Plessis
remained upon the rugged steps and mused :

Ah ! beautiful moon, thou art the lamp
of God, placed there above to guide us towards
Him. How white, how pure thou art f
Should not a man's earthly love also be his
lamp, and guide his steps like the moon —
ever to Heaven ! But then he must love

only what is pure and white — a soul spotless
as thou art, beautiful moon. But I — I made
a mistake ; I fancied a poor little lamp of
earth equal to thy light. And now I must
repent my error and learn the truth. No !
Columba, beautiful one, thou art not for me !
Thou wouldst soon break my heart — and
guide my steps far from the light. Thou
hast already turned me away from my art,
and robbed me of my inspiration, and that
is not well. Never, never will I take a wife
until I meet a woman so noble, that she can
become one with all that is beautiful and
good within me. I will consecrate my life
to the making of fair images of the glorious
sights around me — and thus do my part to
render brighter the sadness of life. Ah !
my God, to Thee I turn for help ! Hear Thy
servant who calls to Thee ; save him from all
worldly desires, help him to turn to Thee
alone — to live but to do Thy will."

And he arose calm, peaceful, and comforted.
The false had separated itself from
the true in his mind, and he knew that he
had never loved Columba as he could love.
But he determined to think no more of
women, but earnestly to strive to cultivate

the talents Grod had given him. He now
really believed that Columba loved Bertoldo,
else she would never have permitted that
kiss. He thought that she had not changed
her mind, but that his wealth had influenced
her. In these hours of silent self-communion
he had recalled the past, and he
felt sure that Columba had never loved
him ; she had admired him a little, but
merely for his external manners and acquirements.


It was late at night before Plessis unlocked
the door of his house and entered the
passage. His face was pale, but wonderfully
calm — and a strange light shone in his eyes,
showing that his soul had been communing
with the Highest.

A lamp flashed on the darkness, and
Columba stood beside him. Her hair hung
down in dark dishevelled masses, her eyes
were red, and her cheeks very pale.

'' Oh ! Plessis, I was so frightened ! I
feared that thou wert killed ! But, thou art
not killed at all, — please tell me that thou
art not ? "

She looked bewitchingly pretty, and such
anxiety shown in his behalf was most

alluring ; — it was his last and strongest
temptation. But Plessis still remained firm,
though not unmoved. His heart gave tumultuous
throbs, but he did not attempt to kiss
her ; but replied, gravely and sadly : —

No ! Columba, I am not dead. Thou
hast reason to rejoice that I am not killed ;
for it would have caused thee to suffer much
unpleasantness."

She shuddered. '' Thou art right, Plessis 1
All this day I have been crying, and praying
to the Holy Virgin. It would have been
really terrible to have had thy blood upon
my head — to have known that my words
had caused thy death."

Plessis smiled bitterly as he perceived that
he had been right in his interpretation of
the cause of her distress. Yesterday, in his
blindness, he would have taken it for love ;
to-day, when his eyes were opened, he knew
that it was fear — fear of a very selfish
character.

"And Bertoldo?" she asked, timidly, "Is
he dead?" A suspicious little quiver of
feeling trembled in her voice as she spoke,
and she felt so much ashamed of it that she
blushed hotly. Plessis perceived both these

signs, and placed this own interpretation
upon them.

'' No ! Columba, lie is not dead. I will
tell thee more tomorrow morning. Meet
me in the shop, and we will walk out together
towards the Cascine. Now go to bed and
sleep, for thou art tired, little one."

She went up to him timidly and looked into
his face with pleading eyes. " Thou dost not
offer to kiss me, Plessis ! Art angry with
me?"

He looked down into her beautiful eyes
with a gaze so searching and earnest that it
seemed as though his very soul was striving
to read hers, to find out whether there was
any truth therein. He was trying for the last
time to learn whether she loved him. Her
eyes dropped, her cheeks flushed — she had
never seen him look at her thus before, and
she did not like his manner. But she began
to respect him more, because he was no longer
making love to her ; and to wish for the kiss,
because he did not seem anxious to give it.
Surely, he would not cease to love her !

He turned from her with a sigh.

'* Good-night, Columba !"— And he did
not kiss her.

THE DOVE WITH Ruffled FEATHERS.

THE next morning Plessis was up before
sunrise ; for, though he had gone to bed
so late, he awoke early. He put on his hat,
and went out to take a stroll. As he walked
along the Lung-Arno towards the Cascine,
he looked around him and noticed the aspect
of inanimate Nature. His poet-soul was
already returning to its true equipoise, for
the love of beauty was as strong as ever
within him ; and his heart could not be quite
desolate whilst all the world around combined
to comfort and interest him. He was not
like poor Bertoldo ; he would never be driven
into evil courses by despair.

As he neared the Cascine, Plessis stood
still and contemplated the river whirling and
eddying below ; it looked grey, muddy, and
dull. The sky above was of a pale blue-grey,
and in the air was a sharp freshness.

This morning — is it not like my life ! It

also is calm and clear, but without one
golden gleam. It is not well for me to contemplate
this scene, lest it make me lose my
faith. I will go into the Cascine, there to
watch the sunrise."

He chose the upper path, the one nearest
the mountains, furthest from the river. On
his left hand was the dark wood of splendid
old trees, on his right the range of purple
mountains. He stood still and watched for
the sun. Across the cool grey shot a gleam
of primrose light, a reflex of coming splendour
; then the sun arose, and all the East
was one glow of golden light. The grey
turned to blue, the purple to lilac ; the birds
awoke in the trees and greeted the sun with
songs of joy. Plessis took off his hat and
bowed his head reverentially — he was
thanking Grod for the beauty of the
morning.

*' This shall be as a sign to me, an omen. For
my life is now cast down and obscured, but
it also may brighten with splendour ineffable.
Who can spend the days of his youth in sadness,
in so beautiful a world ? Ah ! how
small are we all, and how poor and mean
are our thoughts ! We are not even equal

to the birds, for they spend their lives in
praising their Creator."

When Plessis sat at breakfast with his
family that morning, his mother noticed a
peculiarly calm and bright expression on his
face, and she said :

'what joy hast thou, my son ; perhaps
thou hast dreamt a good dream ? "

Yes, mother, a most beautiful dream, —
but I did not dream it."

'' Ah ! then thou hast been writing thy
poetry ? "

No ! mother. I have been feeling it."

Columba's face wore a self-conscious expression,
for she thought that Plessis was
alluding to his love for her. But she wondered
why he had not kissed her that morning,
and why he hardly even looked at her.

After they had finished their breakfast,
Plessis said quietly :

Put on thy hat, Columba, and come out
to walk with me."

They went on in silence until they
reached a bench in rather a shaded corner
of the Cascine. There they seated themselves.


'' Eben, Plessis, art thou never going to
tell me the reason for our walk?"

The reason is this, Columba, I have need
to speak with thee. Tell me, child, dost
thou love me ? "

Her eyes fell before his. " Why dost thou
annoy me thus, Plessis ? Thou art a jealous
man, perhaps "

'' No ! Columba, think not that I wish to
annoy thee. Thou dost not understand me ;
I speak in seriousness. I do not believe
that thou lowest me as I love thee, and I
wish thee to tell me thy heart."

*' Thou art a fool!"

'' I should be a fool to marry thee, unless
I knew first that thoii lowest me, and that
I alone possessed thy heart. Tell me, is
there no other that thou preferred ? "

Columba blushed and hung her head ;
but suddenly raised it again, with anger and
defiance in her eyes.

'rit is that brigand, Bertoldo Fossi, who
has been telling lies of me ! "

*' I do not believe that Fossi would tell
me a lie. He said that thou didst let him
kiss thee. Is that a lie ? "

*' Oh, oh ! I knew that thou wert jealous !

How cruel thou art to tliy poor little Columba.
That horrid Bertoldo is a true brigand ! "
and Columba burst into a storm of passionate
tears.

There had been a time when Plessis's
heart would have been melted by the sight
of her grief; but he now thought of Ber-told'
s misery, and that he was the poor
fellow this little coquette styled " a true
brigand " — and he felt that his heart contained
more pity for the real woe of his unfortunate
rival than for the pettish tears of
his betrothed. He smiled rather sadly upon
Columba, and waited patiently for her tears
to cease. She stopped crying far sooner
than she would have done if he had tried to
console her — surprise, occasioned by his
behaviour, dried her tears. She looked at
him wonderingly.

It seems to me that thou hast ceased to
love me, Plessis."

And would that be any more than thy
deserts ? Oh ! Columba, thou knowest well
that thou didst let Bertoldo Fossi kiss thee —
and that thou hast never loved me. Tell me
truly, who dost thou love, Fossi or me ? "

'' I love neither of the two ! Thou art a

serpent, a wolf, a brigand, thus to torment
a poor girl ! Yes ! it is true, I did let Ber-told
kiss me, because I lead to pay it as
the price of a promise I desired. But I
never loved him, and now I hate him 1
Would that I had bitten the ugly fellow !
May he dwell for ever in Limbo ! "

Plessis shrank back, disgusted by this
torrent of vituperation. He was not surprised,
as an Englishman would have been,
by Columba's language — for it was no worse
than what any other peasant maiden of her
class would have used. But he was hurt
and astonished by the sentiments she had
expressed. Was this the beautiful creature
he had idealized and placed on a pedestal of
exalted virtue ! From one extreme he rushed
to the other, and now thought ColombaYestris
as inferior as he had once thought her
superior to all other women. Poor little
ignorant, selfish girl ! her head had been
turned by too sudden good fortune, and she
was wandering all astray ; but she was neither
so calculating nor so vindictive as Plessis
now thought her.

'' Columba Yestris, I wish thee to understand
that our betrothal is now ended. At

last thou tallest me the truth — that thou
hast never loved me. I will not reproach
thee, although thou hast caused me much
pain. But oh ! far greater is the agony that
thou hast caused, and the wrong that thou
hast done to Fossi, honest man. Truly do
I pity that poor fellow ! As for thee, thou
hast no heart, so nothing can pain thee.
Thou art but a pretty doll. I wish thee no
ill — and thou mayest continue to live like a
butterfly fluttering among the flowers. But,
child of mine, the day will come when thou
wilt find thyself old and ugly. What wilt
thou do then ? Will not thy heart be as
heavy as thou hast made thy lover's ? Who
will love thee when thou art no longer young
and beautiful ? for thou hast not a beautiful
son to render thee lovely, to make thee more
fondly loved than ever when thy lovely form
is faded as a dying flower ! "

'' Oh, Plessis ! thou art too cruel ! Thou
pierces my heart without pity. Have compassion
on me ! "

*' I speak thus, because I have compassion
on thee. I would warn thee, before it is too
late, of the future that lies before thee. Tell
me, Columba, dost thou not love Bertoldo

Fossi a little? Say only that thou pities
him, that thou art sorry to have caused him
such agony, and I will bring him to thy feet.
Have still faith in me ; I will quiet thy relations,
and act as thy brother. Say, may I goto
Fossi with that message ? "

Columba was utterly incapable of understandings
Plessis's character — she could not
comprehend that a man who had loved
her so passionately should be willing to resign
her to a rival. So she concluded that
he was terribly jealous, and wished to try
her constancy. She considered the whole
interview as nothing more than an ordinary
lovers' quarrel. Hitherto, it had been rather
flattering to her vanity, for she thought
Plessis's words a proof of how dearly he loved
lier, and she attached no importance to their
literal meaning. But now, she began to
grow uneasy, for she thought that matters
were s^oinor rather too far. Plessis was too
good a match for her to run the risk of losing
him ; and she dared not think of what would
happen to her if he became really angry.

Plessis, thou art mad ! I do not love
Bertoldo. On the contrary, I detest him !
It may be true that I do not yet love thee

ardently, but I respect and admire thee — and
it is thee I will marry ! "

''No ! Columba, thou art not for me."

Thou insulted me ! " and Columba arose
and walked quickly homewards, till she heard
Plessis following her, when she turned round,
expecting an apology.

I see well, Columba, that thou dost not
understand thine own heart ! But I can
read it for thee. Thou dost love Bertoldo
Fossi more than any other man — but thou
lowest thyself so well that thou canst think
little of any one else."

Columba made no reply, but walked on
quicker than before. When she reached the
house she dashed past Plessis, and ran up
into her own bedroom, where she flung herself
upon the bed. She bit and tore the
pillow in her agony of rage and disappointment.


'' It is but a lovers' quarrel ! " she cried.
Surely, he will repent ! But, oh ! that
maledetto Bertoldo, to have caused me to be
insulted thus ! I love him ! No ! Santo Ciel !
I hate and detest him. It is well for me
that there are other men in the world ; these
two may scold, but others call me lovely and

beautiful. I will be revenged — I will marry
Plessis, but love him never ! And for

Bertoldo ah ! would that he had never

been born ! "

A NEW DISCLOSURE.

ALESSIO did not enter the house when
Columba left him ; but set off walking
to Fiesole. He little knew what vengeance
Columba was meditating against him. He
thought that he had made her clearly understand
that their engagement was broken off;
indeed, he thought that he had been almost
rough in his frankness. He felt indignant
even more on Bertoldo's account than on his
own ; for he was sure that she really did like
the poor fellow, though she was too worldly
and selfish to show it. For himself, his fancy
had now quite vanished. He felt as though
he had been to a funeral, and was about to
doff his mourning robes. His imaginative
love seemed already a thing of the past — a
dream from which he had now awakened.

But to say that lie did not regret his sweet
delusion would be untrue ; he had enjoyed
the poetry and romance of loving, and he
regretted that loss. But, although he no
longer loved Columba, he was so kind-hearted
that he tried to think how he could save
her from sharing the pain and scandal their
broken engagement would be sure to cause.
He must bear all the blame himself, and he
would even, if necessary, make old Simonee
a liberal money compensation to quiet him.
But he would tell la Caterina the whole
truth, and then she could try to soften the
hard heart of her child, and show her her
duty. Her best chance of happiness would
have been to have married Bertoldo ; but
Plessis feared that she was not even worthy
of that poor fellow's love, for he was at least
single-hearted and true, if rather too wild
and passionate. '' Perhaps Bertoldo has had
an escape," concluded Plessis, as he knocked
at the young farmer's door.

Bertoldo himself admitted Plessis. His
forehead was plastered up, but, though he
seemed to have quite recovered from the
effects of his injury, his cheeks were flushed,
and there was a suppressed excitement in his

manner. Plessis concluded that this was occasioned
by his desire to hear news of Columba.

Bertoldo embraced Plessis warmly, and,
leading him to a chair, took a seat close
beside him, waiting silently for him to speak.

Oh ! friend, I have not good news for
thee. Columba is a heartless flirt, and she
says she loves neither of us, but that she
will marry me. A thousand devils! but I
will not have her."

Bertoldo smiled strangely and nodded his
head.

"Friend, I have observed the girl welland
I do believe she loves thee. But she is
too naughty to say so, and, indeed, what she
said was quite to the contrary."

Bertoldo laughed a wild, mocking laugh.

'' Oh ! Signer Plessis, I have permitted
thee to speak on, because I wished to hear
what thou wouldst say ; but thou art mistaken
— thou art deceived. What are two
fools like us to a serpent like her ! Columba!
truly she is a Columba, the Devil's oivn bird
the appearance of a dove with the black
heart of a true serpent. She has deceived
us both. Ah! in truth she loves us not!
What say you, Signor Plessis, to a gentleman

for a fine rival ? What are we poor honest
men to her ? Playthings for her diversion !
But, perhaps, he will avenge us, this noble
lover whom she has found ! "

Bertoldo laughed wildly — such a hard,
mocking laugh, that it quite frightened
Plessis. He was shocked by what Bertoldo
told him ; but he thought more of that
young man's mental condition than of this
fresh revelation of Columba's perfidy.

Oh ! for the love of God ! leave off that
laugh, Fossi ! Thou wilt go mad — what
is a woman worth, that thou shouldst ruin
thyself for her ! Courage, friend ! "

I have courage. Do you think I care ! '*
and he laughed again, more wildly than
before. Then, Plessis' s sympathy touched
the well-spring of his tears, and he flung
■ himself into his friend's arms, and wept
convulsively.

Plessis rejoiced to see him weep, for he
had feared for Bertoldo' s brain. He himself
could not easily give way to tears ; in that
particular he was more like an Englishman
than an Italian. The reason was, that his
nature was more self-contained than that of
most of his countrymen.

Alien Bertoldo became calmer and looked
at him, as if anxious to learn his opinion,
Plessis said :

'' But, friend, we must not believe bad
things too readily. As the proverb says —
Tou must not make the Devil blacker than
he is ! ' What proof have you that Columba
is love-making with a gentleman?"

'' Only too much proof ! Sandro Fagguoli
knows it for truth. It was he who told me
before, that I should find Columba if I waited
in that Yiale at the hour of eleven ; he now
says that he did so with the intention that I
should discover her with her lover. But,
for some reason, that day the rascal came
not; and I only met Columba, as thou
knowest. However, Sandro came to me
yesterday evening, and asked me what had
happened on the Yiale ; so I told him of my
meeting Columba one day and thee on the
next. And then Sandro laughed, and said
we were a pair of honest fools, and that la
Columba was deceiving us, ' both the hvo ' —
for a great nobleman met her daily on the
Yiale at the hour of eleven. A sposa (wife)
had recounted it to Sandro, and then he had
gone and seen them himself. At first he had

thought that he would let the flirt go to the
devil in her own way, but then he considered
that she was young, and had nonsense in her
head — and so he decided to send me to the
Viale, that I might punish her beautiful
lover. So you see well that it is true I "

It appears so. But I believe best what
I see with my own eyes."

Let us go there together tomorrow."

"Is it not probable that they will have
chosen another place ? "

'' I think not. Because, as thou knowest,
one day I came and kept the dog off, and
the next day we were both there. So they
could not meet. I believe it was her lover's
foot-steps I heard when I ran away from
thee. To - day thou hast walked with la
Columba in the Cascine, therefore, tomorrow
they must meet to explain everything."

Thou art right, friend ; and it shall be as
thou say est. She is unworthy of either of us ;
but for the sake of her good mother we will
try to save her."

It may be that she is a flirt, Signor
Plessis, but she is yet a child, and both
innocent and foolish. Ah ! friend, in spite
of everything, I love her still."

Poor Bertoldo, tliy heart is of gold ! "

Alas, no ! it is much more soft than
gold, and hurts me too much for that."

'* Well ! Time will show us the end of
this ugly affair. Only, one thing I know,
Columba is not for me. I love her no longer.
For thee, poor fellow, thou art my comrade,
and I shall ever wish thee well ! "

"A thousand years to thee! Truly thou
hast no pride ; for what am I to thee ? Thou
art rich as a gentleman, and just as clever.
Indeed, thou art not like one of us, and I
cannot even understand all thou mayest.
But I know thou hast a good heart, and art
an honourable man, and that is even better
than being a poet and a gentleman."

Signor GIUSTO Minute.

INA LAURENCE was seated alone in her
bedroom. It was a small place, and
rather over-crowded with furniture. An old
wall with a window in it was opposite the
house, and above the wall Ina had a glimpse
of sky. But, by actually looking from the
window, the prospect was widened — up the
street was a view of Fiesole, nestling between
its hills, and down the street was a picturesque
old archway, above which the
Duomo loomed clear and well defined.

But it was not for these views that Ina
especially valued her little room ; it was,
that being a corner room on the first floor
and front of the house, from it she always
heard the front-door bell ring, and could
command a look-out on every one who came

to see them. Poor girl ! she spent more and
more of her time in her own room listening
for the bell ; which was becoming quite a
subject of irritation to Mrs. Hume.

Ina now stood before the window, looking
out with sad, dreamy eyes. It was evening,
and a hazy light streamed through the dark
archway and etherealized the Duomo above.
Many passers-by stopped to read the marble
tablet outside the house, which told of the
old painter to whom it had belonged — and
some of them cast their eyes up to the fair
face looking down so wistfully. But Ina
heeded them not ; she only thought of one
who came not.

I think I spend my life in waiting !
Where are my best energies going — certainty
and despair would be almost better
than this weary waiting — * hope deferred,'
ah ! ' hope deferred,' — does it not make the
heart sick ? Even my temper is fretted,
and my aunt's little oddities annoy me as
they never did formerly, and I fear I grow
disrespectful. What am I becoming ? Is
this love ? Surely, if all love is like mine,
it cannot be a good thing ! And yet — and
yet — when he does come I forget all past

grief, and feel very glad and without one
regret. But lie does not come ! It is now
ten days since I last saw him ; and his latest
visits, how unsatisfactory they were ! A
rhyme has formed itself in my head, and it
torments me most persistently : —

He comes not, no, lie comes not
In the silent shadowy nig-lit.

He comes not, no, he comes not
When the sun of day is bright.

I would do anything to drive that verse out
of my head, and to give up listening for that
bell!"

It had now grown quite dark, and on the
wall opposite the lamplighter had lit the
lamp, which threw its reflected light into
Ina's room. There was not any moon, but
myriads of stars twinkled in the dark sky
above.

Ina put a strong curb on her inclinations,
and left the window. Lighting a candle, she
stood before a tall pier-glass and smoothed
her brown hair, looking at herself sadly the
while. She knew that she was handsome,
but what mattered it, if she lost her Carlo's
love?

She went quietly from the room, and
walked through the passage into another,
where she looked out of the window for an
instant. This window commanded a view
of the Via del Mandorlo — but still Ina
failed to see the figure she desired. This
room was peculiarly picturesque ; it had
one window, and was papered with red flock-paper
very much faded and torn ; the furniture
was miscellaneous and worn, and a
large lamp and a few hideous plaster-casts
adorned the mantel-piece. In the middle of
the room was a cage full of birds, pets of
Mrs. Hume's. All this could hardly be
called picturesque ; but that element was
supplied by the ceiling, — vaulted, and
painted in very effective fresco — the subject,
scenes from mythology, surrounded by
Cupids, arabesques, and small medallions
of the signs of the Zodiac. One of the
mythological scenes represented Danse, another
Perseus. A corner piece was a
well-painted figure of Time. Everything
combined so well that the whole formed a
very harmonious and interesting work of
pictorial and decorative fresco. The owner
of the house always declared that the

celebrated old painter had himself painted this
ceiling and one in a room below, but others
assert that his pupils prepared them in his
absence. But, even if he did not himself
execute the work, the design may have been
his, and the lower room is most especially
in his style. As the story runs, the painter's
fair and* false wife shut him up in this red
room and starved him to death there ; — some
say that he was ill of the plague at the time,
and that she deserted him, leaving him to die
alone without assistance. In either case, his
end must have been a sad one — and tradition
points to this room as the scene of his last
hours. No one had ever seen a ghost there ;
but it was a dark, sad-looking little room, in
spite of its glowing ceiling and sweet-voiced
birds.

Ina knelt on the window-seat, looking out.
At last she heard a bell, but from that room
could not see ivho had arrived. She heard
the sound of footsteps going into the 
opposite ; but a certain perversity
kept her where she was. She would not
appear to be in a hurry; they might come
for her when they wanted her 1

The door of the middle drawing-room

opened — Ina would not look round, although
lier heart beat tumultuously, and her cheeks
flushed crimson.

*tina, child, this is too bad! You are
always looking out of the windows ! "

''Oh! it is you, aunt."

'' Who else should it be ? But I do think
yoQ wish to forget my existence. A nice
life I should lead if my friends did not take
pity on me sometimes ! "

'' Is there any one here now ? "

'' Certainly there is ! Have I not come to
call you? "

Who is it? " Ina kept her face turned
from her aunt, but she could not prevent her
voice from trembling.

'rit is Signer Giusto Minute."

I need not come in, need I ? "

Well, I never ! You are actually forgetting
your manners ! And poor Signer
Minuti used to be such a favourite of yours ;
and he has been asking especially for you,
and he such a famous painter, and so rich,
too ! You are a strange girl ; at least, you
have entirely grown out of mis knowledge."

Ina turned round quickly ; guessing to
what point further discussion was likely to
tend, she wished to put an end to it''

Very well, aunt ; I will go in with you

now."

No, indeed, miss ; you will not ! Not
until I have seen whether you are tidy.
Signor Minuti is a painter, and the most
likely of all persons to notice the least negligence
in your dress ; and lately you have
been acquiring such untidy ways. You
never care how you look, unless you are certain
of that young scamp's coming. Oh,
why did you ever take a fancy to him ! "

*' Aunt ! "

*' Well, you need not look at me so tragically.
I suppose I should not call him
names, as you like him ! Give me a kiss,
and we will say no more about it. Yes, you
do look nice ! That white and green muslin
always suits you, and your hair is quite
smooth. Come with me at once ; for I am not
going to let you escape into your room again."

Signor Giusto Minuti was seated in the
long drawing-room ; he arose and greeted
Ina with a smile.

He was a withered little old man, with
thick grey hair, the brightest of eyes, and
the sweetest of smiles. He was of a gO(ul
Italian family, but he had been exiled like
many other Italian i)at riots at thee time of
r 2

the war for Italian liberty. He had then
cultivated his artistic tastes, and given
lessons in a girls-school, where one of his
pupils, a rich young ward in Chancery, had
fallen in love with the brave exile. On
the young lady's coming of age they were
married ; and, when he became a rich and
happy man, Giusto Minuti had been able to
give time and attention to the higher
branches of his art : and had ended bv becoming
a very popular portrait-painter, and,
what is better, a really good one. For he
had the power of seizing the individuality of
his sitters. He and his wife had been a most
devoted couple, and though they were childless,
they had passed a perfectly happy life
together. After thirty years of married
bliss, the painter lost his beloved Mary. He
then began to yearn for his native land, and
before long set out for his birth-place. Returning
to Florence, he at once took a studio
there. He had now been living in that city
for some five or six years. He had known
Mrs. Hume and Ina from the time of their
arrival. People called him *' an original,"
and certainly he was not like most other
men. Few elderly gentlemen as rich as he

was would have continued to work so industriously
; few artists in so high a position
would have been so moderate in their
charges, and, above all, few persons were so
universally charitable and benevolent. Besides
giving money to the poor and helping
every good public institution that came in
his way, Giusto Minuti was one of the few
who, in the trying ordeal of social intercourse,
still keep their hearts pure and ever
think no evil. He was a democrat, and
bowed before no aristocracy but that of worth.
This theory he carried out in practice — with
him, republicanism was not a mere tissue of
words. For he honestly preferred a clever
artisan to a stupid patrician. He spoke
both English and Italian fluently ; but his
English was sometimes a little formal and
bookish, and he spoke it quicker than is
usual. He was a great favourite among
clever young people, but of them all, the one
he liked the best was Ina Lawrence. There
was a certain resemblance in her face to that
of his dead wife, his '' Mary in Heaven " ;
and so he adopted her as the daughter of his
heart. But in manner he was rather sharp
with her, and many a wordy skirmish ensued

between them. She never even guessed how
much he loved her. He and Mrs. Hume
were an exact antithesis ; but they agreed
on one point, and that was, their mutual
dislike to Ina's engagement. Their reasons,
however, were dissimilar. Mrs. Hume
objected because Carlo was not a good
enough match. Ariosto Minuti disliked it
because the Conte was not a good enough
man. He knew the young fellow to
be utterly worthless, and his one hope was,
that something might yet occur to prevent
the marriage.

'' Good evening. Miss Ina, I hope I see
you well ? "

'' Yes, thank you, Signor Minuti, I am
pretty well."

'* I do not think she is well. She spends
her time in moping in her room, has left off
her former occupations, and even refuses to
leave Florence for a change of. air. All
people of rank and fashion are now away ;
and I find this town a desert."

Ah, Miss Ina, this is a bad account !
No painting, singing, or writing ! What
troubles you ? Is there anything wrong ina
certain quarter ? "

'' No, indeed ! "

Ah ! that is not the truth ! I must
tell you, Signor Minuti, that Signor Conte
Carlo Bentivoglio has not even the grace
to pay her the attention of a call everyday
; it is now weeks since he has been
here."

'' Only ten days, aunt."

'^ Diavolo ! that is bad enough! Ah!
child, that is not the way I made love in my
young days."

Please, Signor Minuti, do not speak anymore
of it! It pains me," and Ina's lips
quivered.

In a moment the old painter was standing
by her side, and had taken her hand in his
own. Looking tenderly into her face, he
said : '' Pardon me, my child, if I have erred !
You know my feelings ; and I know
yours, alas ! Therefore I should have spared
you. Say you forgive me ! "

Most certainly I do. How can I help
forgiving you when I know that you meant
kindly, dear friend."

He resumed his seat, vowing vengeance in
his heart against the young scapegrace who
had not even the sense to value the jewel he

had won, but only cared for its golden
setting.

I wish to tell you and Mrs. Hume of a
young artist with whom I have lately become
acquainted. He is a true genius, and I am
quite in love with him — but I fear he will
end in nothing."

'' Is he a bankrupt wood-carver, or a
carpet maker, or a- decorative painter ? "
said In a, mischievously.

'* Nay, nay ! you quiz me, miss ! He
might certainly be a genius in those special
lines of business, but I should then hardly
style him a genius — sur et simple — to be
that it needs something higher than mere
talent and dexterity ; there must be an
element of the ideal, a poetic temperament
developed in one of the branches of high art.
No ! my friend is an artist and a poet —
though by trade a jeweller."

There ! I knew he would turn out to bea
common person."

'' Let me tell you. Miss Ina, he is a most
uncommon person ! Keeping a shop does
not prevent a man from being a gentleman !
He is a jeweller, moreover, because he was
bred to the trade, and inherited a flourishing

business ; but all his natural tendencies are
artistic, and he has already attained a
remarkable proficiency both in painting and
poetry."

Then why did you say you feared he
would end by being nothing ? Is he idle ? "

Far from it ! His bane is an unfortunate
engagement — a most unequal one — to a
pretty peasant girl."

But as she is of his own rank, why
should she not be considered his equal ? "

'' Ah ! there you are, at your old tricks,
talking of rank and station. I tell you, she
is not his equal — but so far his inferior that
she is already dragging down his noble soul,
and taking the inspiration from him. If he
marries her she will try to keep him only a
showman ; and possibly he may be fool enough
to resign his art for her sake. Why, I tell
you, I am not this young man's equal ! "

I declare, Signor Minuti, I never heard
you so excited before about any of your other
proteges. You must, indeed, have taken a
fancy to this young man ! "

'' ' A fancy ' ! I am astonished, captivated,
pained ! I begged him to come to paint at
my studio, to be my pupil, son, companion ;

but he refused respectfully and decidedly.
He said that he had other duties. I told him
to let his shop go to the devil, but it was no
use. It is all the fault of this wretched
engagement ! I tell you, Ina, he is just the
man for you ! If he had been made on purpose,
he could not have been better fitted to
be your other half. I only wish you could
see and know him ! You would soon begin
to admire him."

'' Signer Minuti, you should not say such
things ! "

Yes ! Ina is quite right. You are
letting your socialism run away with you,
Signore. The idea of talking of a young
lady's admiring a goldsmith — it is really most
improper ! A common man ! Why, the idea
is disgusting."

Mrs. Hume's last speech made Signer
Minuti quite angry, and his eyes flashed with
indignation.

But, madam ! I told you he was not a
common man. He is a gentleman, in manner,
speech, and appearance — and more than that,
he is a genius. Why, sweet and clever
though Miss Ina is, she is not his equal yet.
And to hear you both talk as though he were

not made of the same clay ! Thank goodness
! the time will come when we shall be
judged for ourselves alone — when soul will
cleave to soul, actuated by pure and ardent
love ; and all selfish and worldly considerations
will be as naught, forgotten as the world
itself."

*' You misapprehend me, Signor Minuti.
I did not mean to discuss class prejudices
with you. My disapprobation to your remark
was occasioned by another cause. You forget
that there is but one man I ought to, or can
admire — I am an engaged girl."

'' Alas, yes ! and so is he engaged. And
you are a pair of unfortunates wandering in
the dark, and I fear that nothing can ever
unite you."

'^ But really, Signor Minuti, are you not a
little too democratic ! If you had a daughter,
now ? "

I should say the same, Mrs. Hume ! I
could not wish her a better husband than my
young genius — pure, romantic, chivalrous,
unselfish, clever, and brave. What more cana
man be ? "

He must be a very fine fellow, if be is all
that ! " said Ina, in a conciliatory manner.

'' But I must confess to still feeling some
class prejudices ; it may be a weakness, but
I do not think I should care to shake hands
with a jeweller."

'believe me, Miss Ina, it is a weakness.
If that jeweller's hand is pure and spotless
as your own, you would be honoured by the
contact. Do you think there will be any
such distinctions in Heaven ? "

'' We are not in Heaven yet, Signor, and
must act according to the usages of the
world," said Mrs. Hume.

'aye, that is too true!" and the old
painter sighed. '* And many of us are ' of
the earth, earthy.' But I must not annoy
you further, ladies ; I have my whims, as
you know, and am but a testy old fellow.
Miss Ina, will you show me that you bear
no malice, by exerting your beautiful voice in
my behalf ? I know it will do you good,
too, for music is most soothing."

Ina went readily to the piano, and sang
several plaintive Scotch ballads, dear to the
painter from old association. His Mary had
been wont to sing them. Ina's voice was a
sweet, full soprano, and her singing was
rendered very beautiful by the expression

with which she sang, and by the Italian
method in which her voice had been highly
cultivated.

In a left the piano much cheered and
calmed by the power of music. But Signor
Minuti was more angry with the Conte than
ever — for the more he appreciated Ina's perfections,
the more he despised her recreant
lover.

When Signor Minuti rose to go, Ina
followed him into the entry, and said,
timidly : ''I confess that I may have been
wrong in some things I said — I know it is
ignoble to care for birth and station ; but
lately I seem to have been growing worse indisposition,
instead of better. I am troubled by
many things, and, like a child groping in the
dark, I often stumble. I can well believe
that your artist friend is cleverer and better
than I am; and I daresay that it is I who am
unworthy to know him. Will you, please,
forgive my foolish speeches ! "

'• You are an angel ! and there is no man
in the world worthy of you." And the old
painter, unable to contain his admiration,
kissed Ina most paternally. She was very
lonely, and had no friend to understand or

sympathize with her, therefore she seemed
cold and self-contained — but that appearance
was caused by the strength of her brave
heart, for inwardly she was both sad and
troubled, and longed for a strong arm to
lean upon. The old man's fatherly tenderness
quite overcame her, and the tears
started to her eyes.

'' Ah ! poor little one, poor little heart !
Trust in Grod, and all will yet be well."

''I fear I do not trust enough; everything
looks so black to me at present."

But every cloud has a silver lining.
Look up, child, and see the Light ! And if
the thought of having a true friend to love
you is any comfort, know that there is
nothing in the world that I would not do for
you. Promise me, if you ever need help of
any kind, to come to me as you would have
done to your father."

'' 1 do promise, and I thank you for your
goodness," and she kissed the old man in
her turn.

That night as Ina lay in bed, she thought :
Signor Minuti said that this young man is
a genius — pure, romantic, chivalrous, unselfish,
clever, and brave — just what I always

imagined my ideal lover should be. And is
Carlo all that ? All, no ! far from it, I fear.
And yet, I love him, and if he is not good,
does he not need me all the more ? Must I
not 7naJve him good, and pray God to bless
him ? "

Thus she deceived herself in her innocent
romance, as many a woman had done before
her, and will do yet. As if any woman can
male a bad man good ! Goodness cannot
be forced on any one ; he must first turn
from evil, and be willing to be taught.

Poor Ina ! she dreamt bright dreams that
night.

It was the last time she was to sleep so
peacefully for many a long day to come.
There was a silver lining to her cloud, as
there is to all earthly clouds, and it was of
brightest light ; — but she must rest beneath
the dark shadow first, before her eyes would
be capable of seeing that light.

END OF VOL. 1.

GREAT QUEEN STREET, Lincoln's-inn FIELDS,

LONDON, W.C.

4A ^'^



'■>K:<i^^

m:

I 's-' \* f

•:-i:^-v ^^•-

■4"^'

.'^f'.u'

■rj-'

W'^mi

^^-;4^>'^-

.^

,1 ^-fvcr:'

LI E) R.ARY

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

^"^v

;,^fV

;3

'V-.,^.*.

^

^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/fiesolenovel02leyb

A NOVEL,

BY

BEATRICE LEY,

AUTHOR OF " A GOLDEN Meet-BUD," B TC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.— VOLUME IL

LONDON :
BERNARD Quarto, 15 PICCADILLY.

1886.

Poems 1866

Phoenix 1877

The Pilgrim op Love (in the Daisy) . Nov. 1879

True Love — John Peters 1881

Golden Mary-bud (in Shorthand Magazine) . 1882

Ditto (as a Novel) 1883

Easter Festivals in Florence (in Shorthand

Magazine) . . . . . 1883

Ready for Press.
A Collection of Short Tales : —
A North Country Lass.
I Beg your Pardon.
Diamante.
La Poveretta.

In Preparation.
A Novel in Three Volumes, called Keeping Step.

V. ?.

CONTENTS Of VOL. II,

See page

5. FLORENCE FROM THE Vile DEI Coll . 76

6. VILLA BELVEDERE AND TERRACES . 110

7. FIESOLE . . . . . 180

CHAPTER I.

THE Lovers' MEETING.

BERTOLDO and Plessis went together
to the Lung-Arno della Mecca Vecchia
on the following day, as they had appointed.
They went after eleven, and found the lovers
already there. They stood hand-in-hand
with their backs towards the two spectators,
who determined not to betray their presence
unnecessarily. Pulling their hats over
their eyes, they stole on quietly, until they
were within hearing distance.

*' My dearest Columba, this is very provoking
! It is three whole days since I have
met thee — and now thou tallest me that
I must see thee no more 1 "

I do not believe that it matters to you!"

VOL. II. B

Oh ! beautiful angel, do not play with me.
Listen, I swear that I love thee alone ! "

Bertoldo ground his teeth, but a warning
pressure of Plessis's hand kept him
quiet.

'' You say that you love me, but men —
chime ! are such liars."

Hast thou found it so ? That gives me
surprise ! Who could tell aught to thee, but
the pure truth ? "

*' I do not know ! But tell me, cannot
you live without seeing me ? "

'' It is impossible ! " he replied, melodramatically.


'' Poor thing ! "

'' But, Diavolo ! Columba, what is your
intention ? "

To come no more."
" Hast thou no pity for me ? "

Columba smiled; she had only been
playing with him from a desire to hear his
protestations — they had always been sweet
to her; but in her present frame of mind
they soothed her wounded vanity, and were
delightful.

'rit is well ! If thou art good I may
come to thee sometimes in another place.

But I cannot come here ; for they begin to
suspect me, and I fear something might
happen. There is no harm in our meeting
sometimes to talk, therefore, I will still
come ; but not often. Art thou content ? "

I see that I must be content " — and
he heaved a deep sigh.

*' What is that ring on your finger ? "

'' Oh ! it is only a little ruby ! '' And he
held up his hand reluctantly.

"It is very pretty," said Columba,
taking it off and putting it on her own
hand.

Grive it me back, bella ; it is too arose
for thee. I will bring thee a far prettier
one." His tone was so anxious that it
aroused Columba's suspicions, and she
determined to tease him.

''I do not wish for another; I prefer
this ! Give it to me, Signore."

'* I cannot ! Anything but that."

This is what I want — ah ! I see well that
you do not love me. All men are alike,
twenty soldi for a franc ! ' "

The young man stood irresolute, not
knowing what to do ; but Columba conquered
; '' I can say I lost it," he thought.
B 2

'^ Thou art mistress of all that belongs tome
! keep the ring if it pleases thee. It is
not pretty enough for thee; but thou wishes
forifc, therefore, it is thine."

Columba smiled triumphantly, and twisted
the ring round on her finger. To reward
him for his docility, she said archly : " You
will find me in the Cascine, at the second
Piazza, the day after tomorrow. You can
walk that way, if it pleases you, Signore."

'' Certainly, I shall be there, my beauty."

But now I must go. Signer Carlo.
It is not fitting that I stay longer.
Actio ! "

Arivederla ! "

She walked on a few steps, and then
came back to him, her face bright with
innocent mirth.

'' Take it ! there is your ring."

'' But I gave it to thee."

'' Did you think I would deprive you of it?
You have looked serious ever since I took it.
I know not who gave it to you; but it
matters not, I have seen that you love me
best." And, dropping the ring into his
hand, she ran quickly away.

He stood still, looking after her.

'' She is a good little thing," he murmured.


Soon after this, the gentleman walked
away along the Lung-Arno. When he was
out of hearing, but still in sight, Bertoldo
exclaimed :

'' Let me kill the thief, Plessis ! "

No, friend, we must act with prudence,
and make no scandal. See you not, that our
Columba is a little flirt, but she is yet a
child, and quite innocent."

I could observe nothing but that
brigand ! "

It may be that he is a brigand, but we
must thick first of Columba. I wish to find
out who he is, and then I will recount all to
her relations, and they can guard her. Goto
thy house quietly, and let me follow him.
Thou art too angry to act with judgment ;
I will tell all to thee afterwards."

I trust thee. Go, and good speed ! But
kill not the traitor, for I consider that to be
rrnj privilege ! " And Bertoldo left Plessis,
and walked hastily along the Viale.

Plessis followed the gentleman, keeping him
well in sight — but he took care that he should
not know that any one was following him.

Plessis particularly wished to find out
who the young gentleman was, before
they denounced him. to anyone ; for that
ruby ring (which the gentleman had held
out so that Plessis could see it perfectly)
had put strange thoughts into his head. It
was the exact counterpart of the ring he
had sold to the English lady; and he felt
sure that no other such ring existed in
Florence. The design of the setting had
been his own, and was as peculiar as it was
handsome. Could this really be the same
ring that beautiful creature had bought, with
a blush of tender love ? And was it to be
thus lightly prized by the ungrateful rascal
on whom she had bestowed it ? Her pure
and beautiful face arose before his mental
vision, and he felt that he hated this man
even more for her sake than for Columba's.
Had he not already discovered Columba's
real nature, this interview would have been
as trying to him as it was to poor Bertoldo ;
but he had watched the lovers with the
clear-sighted eyes of an indifferent spectator.
Columba was evidently not in love with this
young gentleman, though her vain little head
had been turned by his notice. She appeared

to be enjoying a comparatively innocent flirtation
— if such. a thing can be termed innocent.
Plessis thought that this trouble had
been occasioned by his own fault ; for he had
let the girl go out alone, and that had led
her into mischief. But she appeared to
him not to be thinking of marrying this
gentleman, but merely of wishing to be admired
by him. Whatever his intentions
were, he was sharp enough to understand
what sort of girl he had to deal with, and
he had evidently uttered no words but those
of innocent admiration and vague protestation.
He had been so careful not to frighten
her that he had never attempted a caress.
Poor Bertoldo's mad jealousy blinded him
to the truth, but Plessis guessed all this.
However, he saw that the love-making must
be put a stop to at once. He would let no
one have cause to make malicious insinuations
against Columba. And again, now
that their engagement was broken off, she
might begin to dream ambitious and impossible
dreams o£ a gentleman-husband.
It must all be put an end to as soon as
possible. Poor silly little Columba ! He
pitied her sincerely. But he almost smiled

to himself at the thought of the way in
which he had once ideahzed her, and how
different was the real Columba to what he
had fancied her. He felt thankful that he
had escaped that danger. And poor
Bertoldo ! he was not fancy free — and none
knew yet how his troubles were to end.

All this time Plessis had been following
the gentleman, and they had now reached
the via Borgognissanti, where the young man
entered a house. Plessis went up to it,
and made a mental note of the number:
Standing abstractedly before the door, he
did not even see a gentleman who came out
of the house, so impetuously that he almost
knocked him down.

Excuse me ! A thousand pardons for
being in your way " — said Plessis.

I cannot believe my eyes ! why, it is
thou thyself, my Plessis," returned the
gentleman.

Ah ! Signor Minuti, it rejoices me to
see you ! I did not at first recognise you."

"Nor did I recognise thee. What art
thou doing there, standing like a statue?
Surely, thou dost not find that house picturesque
? "

Oh, no ! " and Plessis laughed — and
then added : " I am in a perplexity, Signer
Minuti, and perhaps you could give me help.
May I tell you all my story — it is a long
one?"

'' Certainly, my son. Come with me to
my studio." And the old man placed his
arm in that of Plessis, and they walked
together to the studio.

Something in the old man's kindly sympathy
won Plessis's confidence, and he told
him the whole history of his life, beginning
with his love and his hopes, and ending with
his disappointment. When he told of his
discovery of Columba's true nature, and of
his consequent disillusion, and the breaking
off of their engagement. Signer Minuti
arose, and going up to him, clapped him
cordially on the back, and shook him by
both hands.

My son, it is well, most well ! I congratulate
thee."

Plessis smiled. "It is not usual to congratulate
a man on losing his betrothed."

'' Ah, son, thou hast but lost a woman.
Thou wilt now find thy Art she will claim
thee for her own ! "

*' Do you not believe in women, Sign ore ? "

'* Not in such women ! She would have
ruined thy career. There are some of
another kind, angels of light, who spur
men on to great deeds. They are not the
rivals of Art, but her ministers. It may
yet be your lot to find a Beatrice — a
Laura."

I hope so ! But I will not think of
such things now. You have not yet heard
all my story. Do I weary you ? "

Oh no, not a bib ! Can you not see,
imbecile ? " and the old man resumed his
seat with a good-humoured laugh. He
shewed great interest in the whole of
Plessis's narrative, but when he told of
Columba's gentleman-lover, of the ruby ring,
and of his remembrance of the English girl,
then the old man's face grew very serious,
and his manner became troubled.

'' Ah ! Plessis mio, this is a bad world, a
very bad world ! But thou art a good fellow, so
I will confide in thee, as thou hast confided in
me. Know, that this devil infernale, whom
thou hadst followed to the house where we
met, is a certain Conte Carlo Bentivoglio ; he
is a gambler and a roue, and as bad as can be

imagined. But, by his deceptive gallantry,
be lias gained thelieart of an angel, at whom
he is unworthy even to look. She is a rich
Inglese, evidently the same lady that you
saw, for you have described her exactly.
He loves her not for her beautiful soul, nor
even for her beautiful face, but only for her
money. Diavolo ! think of that ! an angela
pearl, to be married for her money by such
a rascal ! And actually she has consented to
marry him. She is so innocent, she cannot
even believe in such wickedness as he commits.
Ah ! this world, this world ! She is of age,
therefore no one can prevent her from marrying
him. Her parents are dead, and she lives
with a silly, unsympathetic old aunt, whom
she heeds not the least. Though thy disclosure
will pain her, it delights me ; for I
hope it may be the means of awakening her
from her delusion and saving her. As the
little peasant girl is foolish and innocent
there is nothing in this matter that we
cannot bring before the young lady. I am
sure her good heart will be full of indignation
against the Conte for his wanton trifling
with this child ; for he might have ruined
her good name. And the young lady's

jealousy and pride will be aroused when she
hears how her lover woos other women — and
would even have given away her present.
You must go and tell her all."

'' Oh no ! Signore, I pray you to do this
yourself! You are an old friend, and a
gentleman. How could I speak — to pain the
young lady ! " and his face flushed.

'' We will go together. For Miss Ina
Laurence knows I do not wish for her marriage
; therefore, although she would hardly
doubt my word, I prefer to have a witness."

'but Columba, what can be done for her?"

I advise you to take her home to Fiesole
as soon as possible. You can tell her that
the gentleman is engaged to a young lady ;
and I think that will put an end to the
romance in her quarter. No doubt she will
marry the young farmer, if he still cares to
have her. I daresay this shock will take all
the folly out of her."

Good Signer Minuti, how little he understood
Columba, — or Ina either, for that
matter ! A woman's heart is a curious and
delicate thing, so mysterious in its workings
that it needs time and experience, even for a
woman to know her ow7i heart.

LIKE A QUEEN.

WHEN they readied the door of Ina's
house, Signor Minuti looked at his
companion, and was struck by the peculiarly
woebegone and embarrassed expression on
his face. A sudden compunction seized the
good old man, and he perceived that it
would not be fair, either towards Plessis
or the young lady, to deal this blow so
publicly. No ! he would break the news
first, and then call Plessis in as a witness.
He sighed deeply ; but he made up his mind
to do his duty manfully.

The Signora is not ready to receive,"
said the servant.

"It is the Signorina I wish to see."

'' Enter then, Signore."

When they had reached the first floor

landing, Signer Minuti said to Plessis : —
'' You wait there till I come for you. I will
speak with lier first."

Plessis felt much relieved that the artist
had decided on this course of action. But
after he had seen his friend disappear into a
door-way, and the servant had run downstairs,
a sudden tremor came over him ; and,
strong man though he was, he felt obliged to
seat himself upon a large wool-work divan
that stood in the middle of the entry. How
terrible it would be when Signor Minuti
called him to confront that beautiful young
lady, for him to tell her of her lover's perfidy.
That last word called up the thought of the
sorrow of which he was the unwilling messenger
; and he forgot his own embarrassment
in sympathy for her and her pain. His
heart beat in responsive throbs of agony, the
echoes of what she must be suffering. Were
those beautiful tender eyes full of tears — was
she in a swoon ? Ah ! he wondered how she
was bearing her trouble. He sat there in
suspense, hearing nothing but the beating
of his own heart. At length a door behind
him opened — he started to his feet with a
blush upon his bronzed cheeks. He only

saw a comical-looking old lady, with a
tumbled wig of hair, a striped dressing-gown,
an extraordinary cap, and spectacles awry
on her nose.

'what want here?" she said in bad
Italian.

''I await the Signor Minuti," saidAlessio,
bowing politely.

Oh, well 1 " and she vanished again.

This episode seemed like comedy in the
midst of tragedy, and only made the suspense
more trying than before.

At last ! Yes, the door through which
Signor Minuti had disappeared opened, and
the painter came towards him. His face
wore a puzzled expression ; but Plessis was
too much agitated to notice that, or anything
else — he merely followed mechanically.

When he entered the drawing-room he
saw a sight he never forgot in all his afterlife.
Standing by the window was Ina, her
face rather pale, but apparently calm ; there
was a questioning look in her tender hazel
eyes, and she leant with one hand on the
window-sill. A ray of sunlight fell upon her
head like a golden glory — and to Plessis' s
poetic fancy she seemed more than a mere

mortal creature. So calm, so unmoved, surely
she was a very queen among women.

Signer Minuti could not understand Ina
in the least. She had expressed no doubt as
to the truth of what he had told her ; she
had merely listened passively. Was her calm
the calmness of despair, or was she callous
and heartless ? He looked at her doubtfully.

Not so Plessis ! he understood her better.
He approached her timidly and reverently.
She looked at him with no recognition in her
gaze. How should she remember a common
jeweller! There was a questioning, wistful
light in her eyes as she turned to him. She
knew he was a jeweller, but she did not
guess that he was the young genius the
painter had praised so warmly the night
before. She was trying to find out from his
countenance whether she might believe his
word. Something told her that she might
trust him. Her quiet was not the quiet of
despair or of heartlessness ; it was the calm
of one who had received so sudden a shock
that the mind was not yet able to realize it.
What were vague, lover-like alarms, sad days
passed in waiting, compared to such a certainty
as this would be ? That her lover

loved her not ! She shivered slightly and
clasped the window-sill tighter. Then,
drawing herself up bravely, she said, in a
sweet, low voice :

'' Signor Minuti tells me that you have
something to say to me. He told it tome
himself, but I could not understand
him very well. You will oblige me if you
will tell it to me again — the whole truth,
please ! "

Plessis wished himself anywhere but
where he was. He looked down at the
carpet nervously, and his cheeks flushed a
deeper red. Suddenly, he remembered what
a mean scamp this lover of her's was, and
how utterly unworthy of such a woman ; so
that to break off the marriage would be to
save her from certain misery. This thought
gave him courage, and he looked her in the
face with the light of truth shining in his eyes.
He would tell her all, for her own sake.

He repeated word for word what he had
heard the Conte say to Columba. When he
mentioned the ring she gave a little cry and
pressed her hand to her heart ; her lips
quivered ominously, and she turned her back
upon them. Plessis continued speaking,

VOL. II. c

L

telling her of how Columba had returned the
ring.

Then there was silence.

Ina did not cry, or scream, or faint. Her
eyes were full of a supplicating agony, and
her lips moved in silent prayer for strength.
It was given. And, when she again turned
her face towards the two men, they were awestruck
by her beautiful and wrapt expression.
This was not what they had expected. That
she suffered deeply was evident ; but she
gave no sign. She was a brave woman —
strong with a courage not of earth.

Thank you for telling me the whole
truth. This — this young girl is — is — what
is she?"

She is a naughty little flirt, though an
innocent girl. She was engaged to Plessis
here."

Ah ! I understand. So this has wrecked
your life too. And she loved Carlo — Signor
Bentivoglio — the most?" And Ina looked
at Plessis with some pity, but also with an
expression that seemed to say, that it was
very natural any girl should like the Conte
best.

'' No, Signorina. I had myself broken

off our engagement yesterday morning ; for
I had already discovered that la Columba did
not suit me. But she certainly must have
been flirting with the Conte whilst still engaged
to me. As for loving, though ! — why,
I do not believe she ever loved either of us*'

*' You do not understand," Ina said, decidedly.
*' You tell me she is young and
innocent, and — and — that — that he was
courting her ; how could she have helped
loving him ? It was not possible ! "

"But now it will all be at an end ; she will
go home, and he will not be able to harm
her," said Signor Minuti, consolingly.

*' What are you saying ? Do you think
he would wish to harm her ! Do you
think I could feel happy if I knew that she
was breaking her heart for him, and he his
for her — and all because of me ! "

*' Why, Ina, you are mad ! What do you
mean ? "

This, Signor Minuti," and she spoke with
a sweet and simple dignity that was far more
touching than tears : " Conte Carlo Mentis
loved me once — yes, he loved me truly
then — and we became engaged. Afterwards
I noticed a change in him, but I did not then

know the reason. Now I understand it all.
He had seen another, one whom he liked
better, and his love for me died, killed by
the power of this stronger passion. Do you
think he would have forgotten his love for
the sake of a mere fancy ? That he would
neglect me to flirt with a peasant girl ? Ah,
no ! I know what the poor fellow must have
suffered. Bound by honour, he could not
break his pledge to me, and he remained
true to it, although his heart was given to
another. But they shall be united, and I
will no longer prove an obstacle to their
happiness."

'you little idiot! you little angel!"
exclaimed Signor Minuti, as he seized Ina's
hand enthusiastically. His eyes were glistening
with a suspicious moisture, and his voice
trembled as he spoke. '' Ah, Ina ! this
comes of feeding the imagination on pure
romance and noble sentiment. Why, child,
you know nothing of life. Do you mean to
say, that you think Signor Bentivoglio would
marry a contains ? "

If he loved her ! " Ina's eyes flashed
indignantly, and she drew away her hand
with the air of an offended queen.

Plessis felt that lie could have fallen down
at her feet, and have kissed the ground she
stood upon. To think that so vile a rascal
should have won a heart like this !

*but, I tell you, he would not marry
her."

'you mean that their disparity of rank
would be disagreeable to him ? I cannot
think that you are right. But if you
are, then it shall be my duty to show Signor
Bentivoglio that true love is worth more than
noble birth, and honour more than life."

'' I think we had better leave you now.
I am sorry, my dear, that we have been
obliged to pain you. "

*' You could not help it ! Life is full of
pain. It is always best to know the truth."

'' Which you are very far from doing,"
thought the painter. " Alas ! poor child ;
the greatest shock yet awaits her when she
learns a twentieth part of the meanness of
the creature she has loved. Good-bye, Ina,"
he added aloud.

Good-bye, Signore. And you, too, goodbye,
— and thank you. I pity you, for you
also must have suffered."

'' Your servant, Signorina ! "

To the last she appeared brave and self-controlled
; but when they had left her she
flung herself down on her knees beside the
sofa, and cried as though her heart would
break. She felt that henceforth all the
world would be a blank to her. She was
still determined to do her deed of self-sacrifice,
but she counted the cost. Ah 1
how fervently she prayed to God, with what
yearning love her heart turned to that Father
whose love overshadow us all. She felt
that His was indeed a tender love that would
never forsake her — and she said to herself
that beautiful verse : —

He shall cover thee with His feathers,
and under His wings shalt thou trust :
His truth shall he thy shield and buckler."

And when she arose from her knees she
was comforted.

*' Ah 1 Signore, how I thank you for
having taken me there. You have given mea
memory I shall treasure all my life. It is
an honour to have seen her — among women
she is indeed the queen — a pearl without
price ! I said to her ' your servant, Sig-normal

and those words of mere form came
from my heart. What would I not give to
be her servant, — to work, to fight, to die in
her service ! And I should feel myself but
too well paid if she gave me only a smile."

*' Take care, Plessis, that thou loses not
thy heart." And Signer Minuti smiled.

''Oh, Signore, this is not a moment for
such thoughts ! And she is too far above
me ! A man may love an angel in Heaven,
or a crowned queen — love, admire, revere.
Those are my feelings for her. The mere
idea of any other thought offends me."

The painter saw that the young man was
telling him the exact truth. His poetic
imagination and chivalrous feelings were
fired with an innocent admiration, kindled
by the vision of a surpassingly noble woman.
It would be wronging his friend to try to
bring his thoughts down from Heaven to
Earth.

*sand, Signore, you speak of my losing
my heart. It seems to me, that if I fill it
with her image, I should, in effect, find my
heart. Filled by so sweet a dream, think
how precious it would become ! Why, the
world already appears to me more beautiful."

'* Thou hast reason on thy side, Plessis !
There lives not a more good and beautiful
creature. But, alas ! she suffers."

'* Not alas, Signore ; for she has the
courage to endure. And it is the noblest
who are given the most to bear — because
they are so near to God that He can comfort
them. Yes ! and He will comfort her."

S^^^

CHAPTER III.

THE FALSE AND THE TRUE.

AFTER parting from Signer Minuti,
Plessis entered his shop. He stood,
silent and thoughtful, in the door-way that
led into the house. He remembered that
Columba had appointed to meet her gentlemanlike
on the day after the morrow, and,
of course, this rendezvous must not be permitted.
He also thought how disagreeable
was his own position with regard to her —
apparently her betrothed, in reality nothing
of the kind. How much had happened on
this most eventful day. He did not for a
moment entertain such wildly Quixotic hopes
as Ina Laurence ; for he knew her lover's
character better than she did. He trembled
for her as he thought of the cruel awakening
that awaited her. The more he thought, the

more advisable it seemed to him, that he
should tell Columba the truth at once, and
convey her home that same evening. She
would be safest in her mother's keeping ; for
he had no authority over her now, if, indeed,
he had ever really possessed any. It was
their dinner hour, so he decided to let them
eat in peace, and then afterwards break his
tidings to Columba. He did not fear for her
heart — he knew that if she cared the least
for any one, it was for Bertoldo.

Their dinner passed off quietly and uneventfully
; la Fortunata being in a good
temper that day, for she was going to a wedding
party in the evening, and her thoughts
were full of the glories of a certain spotted
muslin that she lead been most carefully ironing
for the occasion. Signora Sunta was, as
usual, sweet-tempered and unselfish. Plessis
appeared grave and silent ; Columba, flushed
and excited. She could not understand her
lover's allowing their quarrel to last so long.
And, by timid coquetries, she strove to open
the way for him to make it up again. But
he never even noticed her gentle blandishments,
and thus filled her mind with wonder
and dismay. By the time dinner was over

she had grown quite uneasy ; therefore, she
hailed as a good omen Plessis's proposal that
she should go with him into his studio.

She sat down opposite to him, but he did
not long remain quiet, for he started to his
feet and went to the window, apparently
to scan the horizon. He could not bear to
look at Columba whilst he shamed her ; and,
heartless little flirt though he thought her,
he knew that he should pain — at least her
vanity. Till now he had thought that telling
her would be a comparatively easy task, but
now many doubts assailed him. He felt
curious to see how this girl would bear his
tidings ; he had already seen how another
bore them, but she was an angel, and more
than a mere woman, he thought.

'' Art thou still angry with me, oh, Plessis?
How true is the proverb that says, * Love
and Jealousy were born together.' "

What effrontery in her to talk thus, as
though they were still affianced ! Her words
so angered him that he found courage to
commence his task. He turned half round,
and said, gravely : — '' Love and Jealousy
may have been born together — and, if so,
they certainly die together. As I feel no love

for thee, Columba, neither can I be angry or
jealous."

Plessis ! tell me, art thou serious ? I did
not believe what thou saidst yesterday."

And yet thou didst act as though thou
belie vest it well."

What dost thou say?"

I say that thou didst act as though thou
wert a free girl ! "

Columba turned pale. What could he
mean? "But thou art jealous?" she said,
half plaintively.

I tell thee, Columba, I am not jealous.
Arch-priest ! will nothing make thee believe
me, when I tell thee that I love thee not, —
that thou art not for me ! "

Columba covered her face with her hands,
and sobbed aloud.

To Plessis these appeared as crocodile's
tears, and he became still more angry. He
did not perceive that she was really troubled
by the thought of the material comforts she
would lose, and the fear of her parents' anger,
and the shame and discomfort that awaited
her. She felt humbled to the dust ; she was
indeed being punished for her sins. So she
continued to cry miserably.

** Oh, woman, woman ! Truly do they say
' who says woman, says evil ' — and, ' those
who wish thee ill stroke thy skin ! ' I am no
longer deceived; thou art not a dove, thou
art rather a serpent ! Why dost thou pretend
to care for me when thou hast so fine
a gentleman for a lover ? "

Columba started to her feet — " What ! "

I say, thou hast a gentleman for a lover,
and I saw thee with him this morning. Take
good heed, Columba, that he does not play
with thee ! He is affianced to a rich and
beautiful lady, and he does but divert himself
with thee."

'' Thou lies ! "

'' I lie not ! I do but tell thee the truth. I
know where he lives, and where his betrothed
lives. I have spoken with her, and I sold
her the ring he gave thee so unwillingly."

Thou insulted me ! Oh, holy Madonna,
hear thy child ! Is all the world combined to
mock and deceive me r " and she sank back
into her chair, pale and quivering.

Plessis pitied her now, and he began to
repent his roughness. Usually gentle, it was
the thought of Ina that had made him so stern
to Columba — and for this he was already

sorry. He approached her penitently ; but
she started to her feet with flashing eyes.

'* Touch me not ! Ah, thou Har ! Thou
cruel brigand, thou first insulted me thyself,
and then pretences that all other men are
like to thee ! But thou art wrong 1 My Carlo
loves me ! Yes ! he loves me. And thy
stories are worth nothing. He would not dare
deceive me ! And if he did — by all the saints
in Heaven ! I would kill him. Know, that
it was my promise to thee that has kept me
from encouraging him ; but now I will become
a grand lady — and what will a stupid ox of a
goldsmith matter to me then ! "

This abusive speech made her seem quite
repulsive to Plessis, and he said to himself
: — '' Mercenary little wretch ! " and
again contrasted her with Ina. Still he
could not let Columba remain in this very
dangerous frame of mind, for she appeared
capable of committing any rash act. He
must try and convince her of the truth.
Her vanity blinded her, as much as Ina's
innocence had blinded her, to the true character
of Conte Carlo.

I tell thee, Columba, that the Conte
would never marry thee ; he is affianced."

I tell thee, Plessis, that thou art a liar,
and I believe thee not ! "

Will nothing convince thee?"

I must see it with my own eyes. Art
ready to take me to the house where his
affianced lives ? "

I will conduct thee there ; but we cannot
intrude upon the lady."

Wilt take me ? "

What Columba expected to gain by seeing
Ina's house is doubtful. Perhaps she did
not believe Plessis, and wished to try him ;
perhaps she believed more than she showed,
and wished for further evidence.

They walked in silence to the old painter's
house. Standing in front of it, Columba
looked at the building suspiciously.

Wilt thou go home now ? "

No ! I will enter that carpenter's shop
in the old wall opposite, there to watch,"
said Columba, resolutely. " If what thou
hast said is truth, he will come ; and if thou
art a liar, I shall see thee blush."

Suddenly, Plessis felt her grasp his arm,
and, following the direction of her eyes, he
saw the Conte leaving the house opposite ;
with a most dejected aspect. Columba turned

pale as death, and her breath came in quick
gasps.

She held Plessis until the Conte was out
of sight, and then, dropping his arm, said ina
hurried whisper : " And now we will go in
and see Ter."

'part mad?"

Into ! but I now think thou art not a
liar, and I would know the whole truth. I
hate thee — but not as I hate Mm, if he has
deceived me. Thou wouldst have married
me if I had treated thee better ; thou hast
never preferred another to me. But if he
meant to play with me, and loved another,
by Heaven — I will "

'* But were yoio not playing with him and
with poor Bertoldo ? "

That is another thing. Be silent, for I
will not be further insulted ! "

Columba crossed the street and gave a
loud pull at Miss Laurence's bell. Plessis
felt miserably embarrassed, and wished he
had never brought her there. But if the
servant admitted this little virago, the least
he could do was to go in himself with her.
Alas ! the servant showed them in, and
straight up into that very drawing-room

where he had already been that morning.
Ina sat there alone.

The change in her appearance gave Plessis
quite a shock; for she already looked ten
years older, so sad, so hopeless, was the
expression of her beautiful face. She felt
that she had received a mortal wound — and
that all things were now indifferent to her.
In her noble unselfishness, she had been
willing to resign her lover, heart-breaking
though it would be to lose him. But to
resign her ideal, to find that her lover had
never been truly hers, that she had given her
heart to the most worthless of men — ah !
that was indeed terrible agony. Now she
felt a dull and hopeless despair.

At first, Conte Carlo had tried to laugh off
her accusations and suggestions, treating
them as jealous fancies ; but at last, being
angered by her persistency, he told her
plainly that he was merely flirting with the
girl, and that it was not her business to
inquire into his conduct when away from
her. She must not suppose that he never
meant to look at another woman.

Then Ina, in her turn, grew indignant, and
said that he could not deceive her ; he must

VOL. II. D

be in love with this other girl, and that he
ought to marry her. At this he laughed,
and said he would go to the Devil sooner !
If Ina would not marry him herself, she had
no right to dispose of him elsewhere ; and
he added some coarse and bad expressions
that quite awoke her from all delusions regarding
his character, She then told him
proudly, that all was over between them. On
her saying this, he retorted that he could
easily find consolation elsewhere ; the little
contains should amuse him.

But, as soon as he had left the room, the
Conte regretted that his evil passions had
got the better of his judgment, and thus,
possibly, lost him so rich a prize. Why had
he answered her so idiotically ? So he
left the house with a crestfallen mien, inwardly
cursing his bad temper. But before
he reached his own home, he had determined
to pay her out. After all, it could only be a
fit of jealousy.

Ina stood pale, calm, and silent like a
statue — and seemingly as indifferent as
marble itself. She did not even notice the
two persons before her.

Columba was astonished and awestruck —

she could not help admiring her rival, and,
therefore, feared and disliked her the more.

Plessis was the first to break the silence.
His melodious voice vibrated with intense
sympathy, as he spoke :

Oh, illustrious Signorina, forgive our
intrusion, I pray you ! This young girl is
the one of whom we spoke. She would not
believe my words, therefore she has come to
you — to hear that you are the betrothed of
Conte Carlo."

Ashen he spoke, Ina gave a start like one
awakened from sleep. And on hearing his
last words a slight shiver passed over her.
She seemed to make a strong effort to collect
her faculties, and then, looking wearily at
Columba, said in a strange, husky voice :

"' I idols the betrothed of Signor Conte
Bentivoglio, but I am so no longer. I tried
to induce him to marry you ; but he has no
honour, and I could do nothing. I pity you
but what power have I ? — he was born to
break our hearts."

"He has not broken mine! Ah, the

brigand ! so he would deceive me, play with

me ! You may be a saint, Signorina, but I

am a woman. Am I to remain on the little

D 2

chair because of him, and be unmarried all my
days ? Are all men to deceive and slight me ?
Am I neither to have the position of a jeweller's
wife, nor become a Contessa ? Chime ! I am
most unfortunate ! " And she flung herself
into a chair, and sobbed violently.

Plessis had been looking from the flushed
passionate face, to the pale and calm one,
and thinking what a good picture they would
make — they were such a complete contrast.

Ina made a gesture of repugnance towards
Columba, and murmured : '' They are
all alike. The world is full of the wicked,
false, and mercenary — and I used to think
it so good ! "

'' No ! Signorina, the world is not all bad
it is mixed."

"But what can you say for him — for
her ? "

For him, nothing ! For her, that she is
innocent, foolish, and ignorant; but not all
bad."

I do not understand it ! I think she is
all bad ; for she deceived you, and all along
only thought of self-interest, and never loved
any one. It is, perhaps, better for one-self
to have no heart, but "

'' No ! Signorina, excuse me, but it is not
better to have no heart. The more we suffer,
the more noble we become. Love ever works
for good. The base cannot understand unselfish
grief, and. it is so much the worse for
them."

What you say may be true ; but, nevertheless,
it is hard to suffer," and her lips
quivered. She had forgotten Plessis's
station as she talked with him. It was a
moment of supreme emotion, and they spoke
their thoughts freely, untrammelled by
worldly distinctions.

'ewe must forgive this child, because she
does not understand what is right. She is
only seventeen, and quite uneducated."

I cannot forgive a mercenary spirit."

But, even as she spoke, Ina's heart softened
towards Columba. The poor little thing's
convulsive sobs had grown hysterical, and
her figure shook with wild mirth and passionate
grief. Ina took her in her arms,
softly caressing her. And, strange to say,
this had the effect of stopping her hysterics,
so great was her surprise and pleasure. As
she lay pale and trembling in her arms, Ina
thought how pretty and young she looked.

She must be silly, she could not be bad.
The tender, gentle heart, so little prone to
imagine evil, relented. She regretted her hard
words, and kissed Columba as affectionately
as she might have kissed a younger sister.

Plessis thought he had never seen anything
so angelic as the expression of Ina's face.
And he turned away quickly, unable to look
at her longer.

Columba was also affected, touched,
amazed.

'' Oh, Signorina ! " she said, in a weak
voice, " You are an angel, a saint! Let me
kiss your hand. Ah ! may the Madonna
bless you ! "

"And may she bless you, too, poor little
one."

Oh, no ! I am wicked, I have a devil in
my heart. I feel that I hate all men, and the
Conte most of all. I hold him in detestation
for his conduct to you as well as to me. /
would never have played with him had I
known he was yours ; but he kneiv, and
therefore he was an ugly toad ! "

'' It is no use abusing other people for
their faults, little one ; we should rather try
to correct our own. You must never flirt

any more, but do your duty faithfully, and
then, some day, you may marry a good man."

** I cannot think together of goodness and
of men, for they are quite opposite ! Oh !
Signorina, forgive me ! I am wicked ; but I
love you." And, impulsively kissing Ina's
hand, Columba rose to go. But she found
herself so weak that she would have fallen
had not Plessis assisted her.

'^ Good-bye," said Ina, gently and sadly.

Plessis looked at her with reverent admiration.
" Good-bye, Signorina ! Columba
is right ; you are a true angel ! "

'alas, no! "

They went out after this.

Ina, going to her own room, lay down
upon the sofa, with a weight as of lead on
her heart. She said to herself: ''I have lived
my life — and what remains ? — only Duty."

When they were out in the street, Columba
said hurriedly : '' Take me home, Plessis, back
to Fiesole. I will have no more of Florence !"

And so he took her home to her mother.

La Caterina looked at her daughter in fear
and surprise. There was no luggage. Had
she only come for an hour's visit !

'^ Columba is not very well, Signora
Caterina, let her go to bed now, and do me
the pleasure not to question her."

Columba kissed her mother, and went
silently to her room.

*' What is it, my Plessis ? "

Oh, Signora Caterina, my heart is heavy
at having to tell thee ; but I must proceed.
Thy Columba is foolish and young, and she
loved me not, therefore she has been flirting
with a Signore. All is over between us two ;
and I have brought her back for thee to take
care of her. Chime ! it was an ugly day
when she came into the town ! "

Holy Virgin ! most ugly ! Oh, my child !
my unfortunate one ! Thou greatest my
heart by thy news, Plessis ! And was it her
perfidy that made thee give her up ? "

'* No ! she was not suited to me, and loved
me not."

'' I had feared that myself, Plessis mio."

'rand then I found out that she was
courting with a Conte. But, though he is a
brigand, she is innocent."

'' I thank Heaven ! "

'' And thou wilt comfort her ? "

'' Ah, yes ! Poor little bird, who can love

her like lier mother ? But my Simonee will be
enraged. Ah ! this world, this world ! "

'' I will do anything in my power to content
him."

No ! thou shalt not. Shalt thou pay us
because we have spoilt our daughter, and her
head is so full of nonsense that she cannot
love an honest man ? Ah, no ! it is thou who
hast suffered most. I will bear all the
reproaches."

'' Thou art a good woman, Signora
Caterina."

I am a mother. Ah ! my Plessis, thou

knowest not what a mother feels when

the cruel hawk pursues the tender little birds,
do not their parents defend them, even to the
death — dying whilst covering their children
with their wings ? Even so would I do. To
have my little one back safe is great joy ! No
hawk can touch her here — she is in my arms,
on my heart, and love makes me strong.
Ah, blessed, blessed little Columba, flower
of my soul ! Woe to those who would Throng
thee, or think evil of thee ! When thou art
safe with me ah ! I can bear anything."

She ought never to have left thee,
Signora. We took not sufficient care of her.

We meant all for the best, but we gave her
too rnucli liberty."

'' Thou didst not understand her, Plessis.
I have been suffering from many fears, but
now I am content. Gro home, my son, go
home ! / will care for her now. Rest
tranquil ; all is for the best."

Happiest night, mother ! I go to see
Bertoldo."

*' Ah ! poor man, he too has suffered."

He loves Columba yet, and I think she
likes him best. Who knows ? all may yet
make a good end." And with that comforting
idea, Plessis left her.

Poor Caterina ! She had to soothe an angry
husband and try to comfort her child.
Columba was at present sullen and cross, and
she utterly refused to open her heart to her
mother, and would tell her nothing. Certainly,
Caterina' s lot was far from enviable.
But she prayed many prayers to the
Madonna asking her to help her, and she felt
much comforted before she closed her eyes in
sleep.

Columba did not rest quietly ; for in her
heart was the desire to revenge herself, and
she planned how best to accomplish this end.

CHAPTER IV.

VENGEANCE.

AT last Columba was thoroughly convinced
of Conte Carlo's perfidy. It had been
dijB&cult to make her believe him false ; for
the idea was most unflattering to her vanity.
The Italians are not, as a rule, a vain people,
for pride takes the place of vanity in them.
Columba, contains though she was, possessed
her share of pride ; but she had also a
perfect faith in the power of her personal
attractions. She had been flattered by the
attentions of a gran Signore ; but she had
never doubted that he would be glad to marry
her, if she would have him. She had not
meant to do so, however, as she was then
betrothed to Plessis. She was far too
innocent and good to suspect him of any bad
intentions towards her — and she was too

proud to think that lie merely wished to flirt
with her. Now that she understood that he
had been amusing himself with her, and that
he had all along been affianced to another,
her pride was aroused, and bitter was her
anger and mortification. She had asked
Plessis to take her home ; and now that she
was there, she found time to realize to the
full the misery of her position.

She was crouching alone near the window,
with pale cheeks and wild eyes, staring aimlessly
at the summer landscape. She had
refused to listen to a word of comfort from
her mother, and had only begged to be left
alone. Poor Caterina had wept many tears
that evening, before she went to bed, and
had prayed so devoutly to the Virgin — she
feared that her poor child's heart was broken,
and that it was the Conte she had loved, not
Bertoldo. In reality, it was Columba's pride
and ambition that were wounded, not her
heart and affections. As yet the wilful child
seemed to have no love to spare for any one
but herself. She was still unconscious of the
slight preference she had always cherished
for poor Bertoldo — the lover she had treated
with the greatest contempt.

In fact, she was unable to understand the
suffering she had caused Bertoldo and
Plessis ; for she had not loved the Conte,
and, therefore, did not know that wounded
love gives even worse pain than wounded
vanity. She fancied that what they had suffered
was as nothing compared to her own
misery. The bitter thought of having been
deceived, of having lost two good matches,
was as wormwood to her. She did not see
in the Conte's behaviour a just retribution
for her own conduct towards her two other
lovers.

Oh ! Dio mio ! how unfortunate am I !
To be treated like the dust of the earth, to
be played with as a girl of no account ! Was
it for this that I dismissed poor Bertoldo,
and made small account of that good Plessis !
For this — to be cast aside by a brigand who
never loved me ! Am I to remain with no
husband at all in the end ! Holy Virgin ! it
renders me mad, thus to have been made a
fool of. But — " and her eyes blazed forth
dark lightnings, and she clenched her tiny
fist — " But, shall I then permit it ! Shall he
laugh at me as well as at the poor Signorina
Inglese, who is an angel? Shall he tell his

friends of the little contains who caused
him such excellent diversion ? Ah, no !
mille tivoli ! this shall never be. Am I to
bear with patience that the neighbours
should laugh about me as the girl who
flirted, and whom no one will ever marry ?
No, no ! Columba Vestries was never made
to eat her own heart in silence. She will be
revenged, and the false traitor shall pay her
account with the blood of his ugly heart ! "

There was an intent look in her eyes now ;
for she was planning how she could best
accomplish her vengeance. Columba knew
that her father and mother were too gentle
and timid to help her ; she was too proud to
ask Bertoldo's aid ; and she felt that Plessis
was too good to have anything to do with a
blood-thirsty design. Yes ! with her own
hands, she must accomplish her revenge.
When the Conte was dead, they should not
send her to the galleys — life was ended for
her, since she had been thus slighted, and
disappointed in all her ambitious hopes.
She would first assassinate the perfidious
one, and then kill herself. How to do
the deed was her present difficulty. And
she sat there, pondering, until the sun had

sunk in angry splendour, and a dark, starless
night lead enveloped all things. Then she
shivered, and, closing the window, crept
silently into bed.

Columba slept but lightly that night ; bad
dreams troubled her, and she tossed from
side to side. Her last dream was of hurling
something down upon some one, and she
awoke with the death-cry ringing in her
ears.

This dream was an out-birth of her own
excited thoughts ; and yet, strange to say, it
was this very dream that showed her how she
could best accomplish her revenge.

Her room was* close to the small terrace
where she kept her flower-pots ; and, as her
door opened upon the entry near the terrace,
she considered it as her own sitting-room.
It was this same terrace to which Bertoldo
had mounted when he gave her the kiss.
Columba had one privilege connected with
it; namely, that it gave her the power
to leave the house whenever she chose
without her parents having any knowledge
of the fact — but she was not naughty enough
to use this power — though she liked to feci
that she possessed it.

The first tang she did on this morning,
was to rise from her bed and hunt for a sheet
of white paper, a quill pen, and a bottle of
ink. With compressed lips and frowning
brows, she sat down and wrote a letter. The
characters were very straggling and shaky,
and the spelling far from faultless ; but the
import of the letter was plain enough. The
little traitress told the Conte that she could
no longer meet him near the iron bridge orin
the Cascine ; but, if he loved her, he could
come to see her at her own house. She gave
the exact direction, and told him to come at
eight o'clock in the evening, and to go round
by the back-way and stand beneath the
terrace, where she would meet him.

She folded up and wafered the letter,
writing '' Conte Carlo " on the outside.
And then she began to puzzle her brains to
think of some one to deliver it for her. She
feared that she might be watched ; but she
forgot that Plessis had heard the rendezvous
appointed between her and the Conte, and
that he might, therefore, watch the Conte
also.

All that day Columba stayed in her room
with the door locked, and old Simonee stormed

and swore outside, in vain. He longed to
beat her, but was too miserly to break the
lock open. Poor Caterina cried outside,
also in vain ; for Columba's heart was
hardened, and she was deaf to the voice of
the softer emotions. In the evening she
stole out to look for a messenger, and nearly
encountered her angry father. So she ran
back to her room in despair.

The next morning she again rose early,
and had better luck, as she thought. She
met a young lad, who, for the reward of a
franc, gladly consented to wait for the Conte
in the Cascine, give him her letter, and keep
the whole matter secret.

She had not seen Plessis since he brought
her home, for he had sent her box by one of
his workmen. All the day long she lived ina
fever of suspense, still keeping her room ;
but eating some of the food her mother left
outside her door. Towards evening this
suspense turned to a wild excitement, and at
seven o'clock she already stood waiting on
the terrace.

'rit is certain that I am about to do a
righteous deed ; for I shall exterminate a
devil ! ''

VOL. II. E

As the moments sped on, her rage grew,
and her determination became stronger. She
longed to put an end to the wretch who had
tried to deceive her; and she felt that it
would be no more than he deserved. She
exulted exceedingly in being the one who had
lured him to his doom. And so she stood
there — calm, resolute, and vigilant.

We English should consider such a girl a
regular little fiend in human form, but we
should be judging her as an English girl, and
from our own standpoint of right and wrong.
Columba was of a far more passionate nature
than ours, and of a people who have still
much of the pagan element in them. She
was only about to do what many of her
countrywomen had done before her. And
she took the matter in a business-like and
cold-blooded way that would have made it
appear to us all the more revolting.

At last Columba heard a footstep on
the stones below. The night was dark ;
but she leaned over, and could dimly distinguish
the figure of a man standing exactly
beneath the wall of the terrace. Her heart
beat faster as she said softly — '' Die traitor !"
at the same time laying her hand on an

enormous flower-pot just above the place
where the man stood. She was pushing
it slowly to the edge, when a hand caught
hers — not in time to prevent the fall of the
pot, but in time to break the force of its
descent. The pot rebounded and broke
against the wall before it reached the
ground.

There was a sudden sharp cry, and the
man was no longer standing below.

Columba turned and saw Plessis, white
and stern, standing beside her, holding her
hand as in a vice.

Unfortunate and wicked girl, what hast
thou done ? Thou hast assassinated him ! "

'' I had that intention ! " she cried, exultantly.


'' Oh, mad one ! It is not the Conte thou
hast killed ! I took thy letter from the boy,
and met the Conte myself — I spoke strongly
to him, and made him promise not to seek
thee. Ah ! accursed is the devil that has
entered into thy heart and made thee assassinate
an innocent man ! "

*' I do not believe it ! " But her cheeks
turned pale, and she trembled in every lime).

Plessis fetched the lamp from Columba's
E 2

UNIVERSITY OF .
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

bedroom, and, keeping hold of her hand,
forced her to descend the steps with him.
All the stern resolve and passion, that had
made her act like a little Jael, had now
entirely left her — and she was but a terrified,
miserable girl, little more than a child in
years and intelligence.

They approached the prostrate man, and
Plessis bent down and held the lamp to his
face — and then they saw — Bertoldo !

With a low wail of pain, Columba flung
herself down beside him, and kissed his still
face in so wildly passionate a manner that
Plessis feared she had gone mad.

Oh ! I have killed him ! I have killed
thee, thee, my poor Bertoldo ! This hand
that thou lowest has caused thy death.
Oh ! accursed that I am ! Heaven wills that
I should be punished for my sins, and sends
me the agony of being the assassin of my
Bertoldo. Truly, the hand that tried to
stop me was indeed an angel's — but Fate was
against me — it was my destiny, and nothing
could prevent this misery. Oh ! beloved,
beloved ! I know, now that I have killed
thee, that thou hast ever been my heart's
love. Chime ! chime ! misera me ! Holy

Virgin, take my soul into Purgatory, for I
am no longer worthy to live, now that I have
killed my Bertoldo."

'' Let me come to him, Columba; I do not
think he is really dead."

Plessis sprinkled water on the insensible
Bertoldo* s face. And, lo ! he opened his
eyes, and saw Columba bending over him.

'' Ah ! Diavoletta, wert thou not content
with breaking my heart, that thou must needs
break my head also ? "

Oh ! Bertoldo, I did not know it was
thee."

'' I am not entirely certain of that. Anyway,
I can make a process* against thee."

'* As thou wilt. Have me punished ; send
me to the galleys for life ; it matters not tome
; for my heart is full of joy now that
thou art not dead ! Oh, Plessis ! it was
indeed an angel in thy form that saved me
from a life of remorse."

'' Would it have mattered to thee if I had
died? " asked Bertoldo, sitting up, and
looking at her eagerly.

*' It would have mattered much to me —
the galleys would have been the least of my
Law-suit.

misfortunes — the greatest, to lose thee*'
And she arose with a blush, and turned to
go into the house.

But in an instant Bertoldo was beside
her, showing by his activity that he was not
much hurt; for, thanks to Plessis's intervention,
he had only received some bruises and
a cut on the head. He caught Columba's
hands in his, and held her captive.

Plessis walked quietly away. Leaving
the yard, he returned to his own house in
Florence. He felt quite easy in his mind
now ; for he knew there would be no further
tragedy.

Tell me, Colombina of my heart, dost
thou love me ? "

I love thee, Bertoldo.''

He clasped her in a warm embrace, and
his heart was comforted at last.

"What wert thou doing down there,
Bertoldo?"

I desired to be nesLrthee ; that was all."

Ah ! thou dost not know how wicked
I have been," she said, timidly.

'eyes, I know all."

*' And is it possible that thou still lowest
me?"

** Thou hadst my heart, Columba, and I
could not, if I would, call it back again. I
cannot help loving thee, most beautiful one !
I know that thou hast not loved me as I
have thee — but I have loved all the more, to
make it equal."

Truly, poor Bertoldo had been much
changed and improved by his love and
sorrow. And Columba felt ashamed of her
own unworthiness as she listened to his
words. She inwardly vowed that she would
honour, love, and obey him all the days of
her life.

Long did the lovers linger there, saying
sweet nothings. Columba had begged to be
forgiven, and had been forgiven with many a
loving word and caress. At last she said,
playfully :

*' Thou wilt not send me to prison ? "

'^ The only prison I have for thee is herein
my arms, upon my heart, beloved. For
thou must marry me soon, Columba."

** I will marry thee, Caro, when thou wilt'*

Ah ! heart's desire, thou knowest my
wish — it is to have thee as soon as possible.
Let us now go to ask thy parents' consent."


Greatly did Simonee and Caterina rejoice
over this new engagement. They had
been sitting together, dolefully picturing to
themselves the condition of their unfortunate
child, who, they imagined, was crying
alone in her room. When, lo ! the door
opened, and two radiant young persons
entered, and asked their blessing upon their
betrothal.

Columba threw her arms around her
mother's neck, and, with tears of joy, told
her that she was perfectly happy now ; and
that she was sorry for her past naughtiness,
and hoped that her mother would forgive
her.

Caterina knew that her daughter would be
happy now ; for she had chosen the husband
best suited to her.

Old Simonee muttered to himself : " She
might have made a richer match if she had
been prudent ; but, as she is an idiot of a
woman, it is best that she take him, else she
might remain without any husband in the
end''

Bertoldo went home that night with a
heart full of the most perfect content and
thankfulness. He did not see Columba's

faults — because he loved her blindly — but
even his love, such as it was, was strong to
save. For, as Columba laid her head on the
pillow that night she said to herself :
Holy Madonna, I thank thee ! Thou hast
blessed me beyond my deserts. Thou hast
saved me from misery, and there is no longer
the evil passion of revenge in my heart.
To me, now, the Conte matters not. I can
think of nothing but my Bertoldo. I will
cook him the best of dinners, keep his house
as clean as possible, and be to him a docile
and obedient wife. Oh ! Holy Saints, bless
him ; for he is good and faithful— the sweetest
cake in all the world. I will love him all my
life until I die, and my soul goes to thee,
Holy Madonna'*

columba's wedding.

IT was a bright summer's day when Plessis
was awakened by a loud knocking at his
bedroom door. On his saying " Passage "
(Come in), a rough-headed peasant lad entered
hastily.

"What do you want, friend?" asked
Plessis, sleepily.

Excuse me, Signor Picture, is it not the
truth that you have been invited to the
wedding of la Columba Yestris this day?"

'certainly, friend; but why wake me
before eight o'clock, when the Mass is fixed
for the hour of eleven ? "

Yes, yes, Signore ;^ it was fixed thus ;
but the good priest says he is hungry and
weak, and cannot wait for so long; the
ceremony must take place before ten."

Plessis laughed, as he gave the boy ten
centimes, and sent him out of the room.
But the priest's message did not seem by
any means so strange to him, as it would
to us.

Plessis was utterly without regret with
respect to Columba ; and he indulged in no
sentimental memories. The whole idea had
been a dream — a creation of Fata Morgana
from which he had been awakened most
completely. His only feeling was one of pleasure,
at the thought of Bertoldo's happiness.

So, it was with a light heart that he
dressed himself in his best clothes — in honour
of the wedding.

*' Where art thou going, Plessis mio ? "
asked his mother, tenderly.

'' To the wedding of Columba and Ber-told."


'' Listen to this story ! Thus goes the
world ! Thou dresses thyself like a prince,
nephew, to adorn the wedding of thy sweetheart
! Truly, thou hast little respect for
thyself."

Silence, silence, dear aunt ! " said
Plessis, good-humouredly ; ** have I not told
both you and my mother, that I myself broke

off my marriage with Columba Vestries. This
being the case, I am glad to see her wed my
friend, the good Bertoldo."

'' It is not true — not a word of it ! Ah !
no, I know the world better than you think,
nephew. You cannot deceive me'* And
Fortunata tossed her head incredulously as
she left the room. But, though her private
opinion was, that Columba had treated
Plessis very badly, and that he had not shown
half enough spirit, — yet she expressed herself
in public after a very different fashion —
saying to the sposa next door : '' That was a
worthless girl, Columba Yestris : our Plessis
was forced to give her up ; but he has a good
heart, he would not let her die an old maid ;
so he found her a parties in his friend,
Bertoldo. And he goes to their wedding
to show every one that he approves of the
match. Yes, our Plessis is a good boy ! '*

Our Plessis " was now seated in a fly
driving to Fiesole as fast as possible —
having due regard for the good priest's
hunger.

The last time he had been on that road it
was for a very different purpose, and he
could hardly realize that so short a time ago

he had been speeding to Fiesole to save
Columba from a great crime ; whilst now he
was going to rejoice at her wedding.

Such is life — comedy and tragedy interwoven
as woof and warp.

Plessis went to Bertoldo's house, and
proceeded with him to the church, where
they found the rest of the wedding party
awaiting them.

Bertoldo was nervous, but beaming with
happiness. Columba looked rather pale,
but very beautiful. She was dressed in black
silk, and wore a lovely set of gold ornaments
that Plessis had given her as a wedding
present. Catera was tearful — the father
triumphant. All the guests were pleased, —
for they knew that the good Catera had provided
an ample feast.

Columba smiled gratefully when she saw
Plessis — though she inwardly wondered at
his pleased and tranquil air, and realized,
with a pang, that he did not regret her. But
this was only a momentary feeling of
wounded vanity, and she was really glad to
see him happy. She loved Bertoldo as well
as she could love, and was quite content.
The Conte was forgotten — she only thought

of her sposo now, and of her own promotion
in becoming a wife.

The sun shone brightly upon the happy-party,
and the Mass was proceeding quietly ;
when suddenly, just in the middle, a great
clamour was heard in the Piazza outside —
the barking of a dog and the shouts of boys.

The hungry priest turned sharp round
from the altar, and exclaimed : " Oh ! who
the Devil could do anything with such an
accursed row ? Be off, some of you, and clear
me that Piazza ; or, by Bacchus ! I shall
leave the altar. Ia ! I say." *

Away scampered a dozen ragged little boys
at full speed down the church ; and the
uproar became worse than ever.

Bertoldo turned red, and Columba bit her
lip with vexation. But Plessis walked out
quietly, and restored order in the Piazza —
returning with the guardia nobile to witness
the end of the interrupted ceremony.

When the Mass was concluded, Bertoldo
went to pay the fees, leaving Columba
standing by her mother.

Then, a rush of all the gamins towards the
door took place ; and they nearly massacred

A fact.

each other as a shower of confetti (sugar-plums)
was rattled upon their heads by the
bride's relations and friends.

Mortars were fired off at intervals all day"
and, in fact, there was a general Festa.
In the evening a band played, and there was
a dance in the Piazza.

The dancers were mostly peasants, who
had been invited by Catera and her husband
to Columba's wedding. The Piazza was
illuminated by oil lamps — and a bright moon
shone down on the merry-makers.

Some of the dances were pretty, but the
quadrilles ended in universal chaos, and the
waltzes had a churning movement far from
graceful. A friendly sergeant of infantry, in
military uniform, directed the dances in
French technical phraseology, and danced
like a posset.

The supper arrangements were peculiar —
as all the guests walked off to the Trattoria,
where tables were laid, and paid for their
own rations, entertaining the Yestris into
the bargain.

The ancient matrons of the party were
silent to a degree, and, being all strictly
classified in a row, they looked just like so
many criminals awaiting capital punishment.

The young women were very sober, and also
sat in long files, holding no social intercourse
with their partners. The young men
clustered outside the door in passages, and
made no attempt at conversation. The prevailing
air was of deep gravity and careworn
seriousness, though they were all really happy.
After supper, dancing began again, and a
very pretty country-dance was enacted. It
represented a courtship in pantomime, most
expressively pressed and rejected. The girl
always eluding her partner's outstretched
hands, and escaping gracefully from his
advances until he retired worn out, to be
replaced by another swain, who gained the
day by beseeching the lady's favour in a
wonderful figure danced on his knees.
Nothing could have been prettier than the
defiant snap-of-the-finger way in which the
little contains flew away from the rejected
partner, or the gracious, relenting reception
she gave the humble admirer on his knees,
and the final clasping of hands over their
heads as they danced together the last steps.
Plessis stood silently watching the others'
enjoyment. He looked rather pale and sad ;
seeming the one apart. A hand touched his.

and, turning, lie saw Columba looking up at
him with beaming eyes.

'^ Art thou happy, Columba ? "

Oh ! so happy, Plessis, that I fear to
breathe the word, lest it should all vanish at
a touch."

'' May it continue a thousand years ! I
wish thee every good. But now, Colombina,
you must excuse me, as I have to return to
Florence."

Columba hesitated, then, blushing crimson,
she added hastily : " And I wish that you
may one day invite me to your wedding ; and
that you may be as happy as we are — for,
surely, you have deserved it much more
than I."

Plessis sighed, but he thanked her gently,
and, kissing her hand, stepped out into the
darkness alone.

'that page is turned," he thought;
'' Columba and Bertoldo have a new life
before them. But for me — is my life
finished ? I must no longer place my faith
in la Fata Morgana, and build palaces in the
sky. But, oh! Dio mio ! if this love is a
dream, let me die still a dreamer. The
English poet Shakespeare says : ' It were

VOL. II. F

all one that I should love a bright particular
star, and think to wed it.' And even
so is she to me — as ' a bright particular star ' ;
she shall guide me and light my path. My
footsteps shall no longer stumble 'neath the
glow of a meaner light. This may still be
Fata Morgana ; it can but be ideal — but it
shall be eternal. Good-bye to you both,
Columba and Bertoldo ! Simple, happy souls,
you could not even understand my feelings —
in my world I am alone."

ALESSIO S QUEEN.

INA'S life was now very desolate ; she
tried in vain to sing or paint, and at
last gave up the struggle as fruitless. From
a sad habit, she often walked to her window
to look out, and then, recollection returning
to her, would sigh and turn away.

She felt her loss far more deeply than
Plessis had felt his ; for his awakening had
been gradual — hers a more sadden blow.
And then, woman-like, she had staked her
all on the cast of a die. She had seen her
beautiful dream fade as a mirage in the
desert —and now only the desert seemed left
to her.

Plessis had his Art to comfort him. And

then, he had also the germ of a true and

noble love in his heart — a love that could

but die with that heart itself. His fancy for

F 2

Columba had been but a vain imagination ;
Ina's for Carlo was a mistaken and romantic
idealization of an unworthy object, but still
there had been more personal preference
in it.

Ina was a noble woman, and she did not
mean to spend her life in useless regret ; but
she felt she needed a change, so she determined
to leave Florence, where everything
around her reminded her of her sorrow.

Mrs. Hume was delighted with Ina's
desire for change, and gladly helped her in
her preparations for departure. For, though
sincerely sorry for her niece, she was still
more sorry for herself ; and, as she told
Signor Minuti : "A girl suffering from
blighted affections is not the liveliest companion
in the world!" In addition to her
home troubles, Mrs. Hume was at present
suffering from outside worries. A great
celebrity had visited Florence, and, on Mrs.
Hume's hastening to pay her respects to the
lion, she had received a most decided snubbing.
And, moreover, many Italian grandees,
who had formerly courted her for her niece's
sake, now quietly dropped her; for they
knew that Ina had " turned melancholy," and

that she refused to go into society. Therefore
Mrs. Hume agreed eagerly with her
niece's proposal ; and they began at once to
prepare for their departure.

Plessis was quite cheerful now ; for he felt
that he had escaped from a great danger.
He had never been calmly happy during his
engagement ; it had been but a ti doubled
pleasure — a rose with many thorns.

He set himself to work with new energy
and earnestness — he must do his part in life,
and no longer dally with Art.

Both Columba and her husband regarded
Plessis as their best friend, and considered
that they owed their happiness to him.
Fortunata still expressed great indignation
when speaking of Columba, and, though she
had spoken loudly against the match, she now
spoke just as loudly against " the flirt " who
had slighted her nephew ; though she added,
*' She was glad Plessis had shown sufficient
sense to get rid of the little fool ! "

Plessis visited Signor Minuti's studio
constantly, and always managed to ask
after the Signorina Laurence. Soon the old
painter learnt to save time and trouble by
proffering the desired information. Plessis

was grieved to hear of the continued sadness
and despondency of the young lady,
and of her altered appearance.

One day Signor Minuti called at Plessis's
house to speak to him. He was ushered
into the parlour by la Fortunata, who told
him that her nephew was out, and asked him
if he would sit down and wait.

Certainly, Signorina, if I do not incommode
you:" — said the old man, with an
amused twinkle in his eyes, for he knew that
she dearly loved a gossip with him. And
he, for his part, was not averse to this unintellectual
occupation. For he was sufficiently
English in taste to derive amusement from
the quaintness and originality of his country-people
—-that is, of the lower classes.

'' Ah ! I am already half dead ! I have
ironed all this blessed day ! But, it is my
destiny. However, I can sit with you to
divert you for a moment, Signore, though,
as you know, I have always much to do, and
my health is most miserable. Patience ! "

Certainly ; you are a most amiable
woman to bear your misfortunes with such a
holy patience," he replied, in a tone of grave
sympathy, but really with secret mirth.

La Fortunata was gratified, so she said
amiably — '' Ah ! Signor Picture, you are
troppo garbage ! You are not like the other
men, who do not understand us women.
You are such good company, you always
cause me to laugh, and — ' every time one
laughs, one takes a nail from one's coffin ! '
Would you credit it, Signore, this morning
in the omnibus I beheld a marvel, and had
occasion to remark what an extraordinary
nation are the English ! They are not
civilized at all, and we may truly call them
barbarians."

'' You render me curious, in truth ! Tell
me, Signorina, what did you see? "

I will tell you the whole story. At the
Piazza della Signora, I stepped into the
omnibus with the intention of going to the
Santa Croce. All the places were occupied,
except one, and we were just going on — when
lo ! some one called to the driver, and entered
the omnibus. It was an English lady. I
must say, she was a fine piece of womankind,
fat, and with a beautiful colour on her
face. Her hair was grey, and all curled, and
she was dressed well enough, in some purple
cashmere stuff. To look at her, you would

have said — ' That is a lady '; but you will
hardly believe me when I tell you that this
lady carried in her hand a large basket.
Fancy the shame ! I blushed for her. Why
could she not have carried a red spotted
handkerchief of cotton, such as I do? It
would have been much more decent. As
you well know, Signore, no respectable
Italian woman would ever consent to carry
a basket. But this shameless one sat down
as though it was nothing, with that ugly
basket on her lap. I looked around the
omnibus, and all the other women gave me
glances, and we stared at the Inglese — who
never noticed us. At last we grew ashamed
for her, as she sat near the door, and the
persons in the street could see her. So we
began to make her signs to put her basket
under the seat ; — she did not seem to understand
us at all, and stared, at us as though we
were all so many mad ones. We continued
to make signs, and the stupid Inglese to stare.
At last, she turned to me, and said :
' What do you all want ? '
'" It is the basket, Signora,' said I.
*' ' What do you want with my basket ? '
returns she.

*' ' Want it ! Mamma mia ! Ob, no,
Signora ! We meant that you might like to
put it under the seat ? '

'' 'Why should I put it under the seat ? '

•' ' Because a Signora should not be seen
carrying a basket, and we are all ashamed
for you.'

On that, the idiot burst out laughing, and
held her basket tighter than ever. And we
all thought within ourselves : — ' How indecent
are the English ! ' "

The painter concealed his amusement at
this characteristic anecdote, and said gravely :
" But, Signorina, in different Lands there
are different customs. In England the
ladies all carry baskets, and only common
labourers carry spotted handkerchiefs ; — the
ladies there would be ashamed to carry a
bundle."

La Fortunata shook her head, and
muttered — " They are barbarians."

'ewe have had a good harvest this year,"
said Signor Minuti, by way of changing the
subject.

"Pretty well, Signore; but the people of
the country round Pistoia have had a bad
sowing of the seed ; the rain began too early.

They prayed to the image of their patron
saint to stop the accursed rain ; but he would
not listen to them. Then they told him they
would beat him if he did not attend to
them ; but he was still obstinate ; — so they
beat him — but he was like an ox, most
obstinate. So they put him down a well, to
see if that would make him hear reason."

'rand did he?"

In effect, he did. And after ten days
the rain ceased."

'' And what became of the poor saint ? "

'' Oh ! they took him out of the well, dried
him, and put him back in the church. As he
was of wax, some of his colour was spoilt, but
it will be a good lesson for him, and teach
him not to be so obstinate another time."

*' We must hope that he will profit by experience,"
said the painter gravely. '' And,
did I not hear that the picture of the
Madonna of the Church of the Santissima
Anunziata is wonderful in its power of
stopping the rain, when it is exhibited ? "

Yes, truly ; but it needs a very bad
harvest for the people to have courage to
bring that forth, as it costs them so much.
They have to pay three hundred lire, or

perhaps even seven, — I am not exactly
certain but I know it is a large sum, — to the
Municipal, for permission to have the picture
uncovered."

'* Then the Government actually taxes the
Virgin?"

'eyes, the brigands ! They say that if we
receive a grace we'must pay for it ; and we
do that thoroughly. First comes the bad
season, then the Municipal with their tax,
and then all who go to pray to the Madonna
offer her a piece of money as alms to her
church. Thus, it appears to me, that we
pay well for a little grace. I cannot help
telling of this, for, as you know, ' the tongue
strikes where the tooth hurts.' "

At that moment Plessis entered, and
greeted his friend warmly.

'' I wish thee io come to walk with me.
Canst thou, my son ? "

"With pleasure, Signore."

'' Good-bye, to meet again, Signorina."

And the two men stepped out into the
street together.

*' I wish to walk on the Yiale dei Coll,"
said Signer Minuti, putting his arm through
Plessis's.

It was now the beginning of winter, and
the day was cold and clear. The sun shone
brightly, and everything seemed to sparkle
with a glad and vigorous life. They walked
to the Collii by the Porta Romana, and, as
they lingered on '* the most beautiful drive in
Europe" (as the Florentines call it), they
admired the broad, expansive view before
them. It was less extensive than the view
from Fiesole, but even more picturesque.

*' Oh ! my son, thou canst not tell how
thankful I am that thou hast escaped that
little contains. Think of the many great
men who have suffered from unequal marriages
! "

lam not a great man."

Not yet, but thou wilt become one. Thou
hast it in thee. Thou wilt be considered a
good painter whilst thou, art in life, and a
great one when thou art dead. And to think
that a little contains might have turned a
genius into a simple showman ! I am glad,
however, that her wayward little bark has
reached the shore in safety. She was a pretty
child, I grant — but she was not for thee ; —
too dear is that honey that one licks from
thorns ' ! "

** Yes, she is safe now, and quite happy.
She and Bertoldo suit each other to a
marvel ; and she is improving every day.
Bertoldo says that she tries hard to learn to
be a good house-wife, but, as yet, she
makes mistakes — for she is very ignorant.
But she lias good-will, and he is content.
'To every bird its own nest is beautiful.' "

Uequiescat in pace. Being, as the English
say, ' off with your old love,' do not
begin looking out for a new ! It is not
likely you will ever find a woman to suit
you, and I may truly say of artists — ' Who
marries does well, and who marries riot does
better: "

But, Signore, you married ! "

I am not a great painter. But, to tell
the truth, I would rather have had my poor
Mary than have been a Michael Angelo."

'' And may I not feel the same ? "

First, you must find an angel like Mary ;
and there are not many of that kind in the
world."

Ah, yes ! Signore, I shall never marry.
I will only love my Art — Art shall be my
wife."

The old painter smiled rather sadly.

They had by this time reached the Piazza
Michael Angelo on the Collii, with its statue
of David adorning the centre. They paused
near the marble balustrade, looking at the
prospect before them. Suddenly the painter
felt Plessis give a start of surprise, and
following the direction of his eyes, he saw a
young lady dressed in black sitting on a
marble bench near. She was gazing dreamily
at the distant city ; he recognized Ina
Laurence.

Plessis had not seen her since their
memorable interviews, and he noted the
change in her appearance with sympathetic
pity. Signor Minuti approached her, still
holding Plessis's arm.

Good-day, Signor Minuti. How you
startled me — I did not see you coming I "

She took no notice of Plessis, who sat down
on the further end of the bench, as Signor
Minuti placed himself between them.

'' Why are you contemplating Florence so
earnestly ? "

'' Because I am wishing it good-bye. I
may never see it again, and I would carry
away its picture in my heart."

Plessis started ; he felt a sudden spasm

of pain. He had not heard of the projected
departure before, and he could not bear the
idea — why, he could not have said.
You leave soon ? "
'' In three days."
'• Are you glad to go ? "
'' Yes, and no ! But I dearly love fair
Florence ; it is a city that seems to find the
way to one's heart. See those distant blue
hills, and the Duomo and Campanile shining
in the sunlight, all so wide, clear, and grand.
Why is the world so beautiful and yet so
sad ? Why are we so bad and life so good ?
It seems to me inharmonious, and it saddens
my spirit."

*' What is your opinion, Plessis ? " said the
painter, wishing to bring the young man
into the conversation — and willing that Ina
should hear some of his thoughts. It was
well that Plessis did not notice the gesture
of impatience that Ina gave, when Signer
Minuti appealed to him. The reason for
this movement on her part was, that the
young man recalled painful memories, and
so his very presence was disagreeable to
her.

He answered gravely and simply ; his rich

voice falling and rising in a melodious
cadence, almost as though he were reciting.

'' It seems to me, Signore, that the world
is not all good, or all bad, any more than are
its inhabitants. It is but the outward symbol
of our natures, and everything in life has
some counterpart in us. See that blue sky,
without cloud or reflection — such is Life.
But the clouds will come, tender pink first,
for joy — that is Love ; then the dark shade,
for Sorrow ; then the long night, for Death
and parting — then will the sun arise with
new splendour, as our souls will float in
Paradise, free, enraptured, and blessed. Ah,
Signore, I love the world; I love Nature
in all her aspects, grand, wide, and bountiful.
God gives it to us to take us out of ourselves,
to console us, to bring our thoughts to Him ;
and to teach us to be thankful'*

*' Thou art right, my son. What think
you, Ina; is he not a poet?"

I think he is more religious than I am,"
said Ina, with half-grudging praise. She
did not even like to hear the sound of his
voice ; and his words seemed like a rebuke
to her. But she could not help owning that
there was truth in what he said.

** Oil, no ! Signorina. I am sure you are
far more religious than I. I have so many
faults, and I fear that I have not considered
these subjects enough. But I love the good
Grod and all His works, as you do also, no
doubt."

If bad men are God's works, I do not
love all His works ! " replied Ina, sharply.

*' Little babies are God's works, and they
are innocent. We have free will, I believe,
and it is the wickedness of our own hearts
that makes us bad. The created world is so
beautiful, on purpose to make us good and
contented; only we will not see it aright."

I do not understand such things ; and I
feel too unhappy to consider them," said she,
with a sigh.

Just then an empty carriage drove up,
and Ina said to the old painter : " Will you
not come back with me to dinner ? "

I do not like to leave my friend," replied he,
hesitating, and secretly wishing Ina and Mrs.
Hume were not too proud to invite Plessis.

'' Have no care for me ; I shall do quite
well, Signore. You lose the Signorina so
goon, every hour of her company must bo
precious. Good-day ! "

VOL. II. G

And, taking off his hat to them, with a
bright smile, he walked away. Ina bowed
coldly, and went with Signor Minuti to the
carriage. Then — turning suddenly, she followed
Plessis.

"Forgive me!" she said, gently, " if I
have seemed unkind or rude to you. I
am so unhappy ! You were right in all you
said, and, please God, I shall yet grow to
think as you do." And she held out her
hand to him. He touched it reverently
timidly. She then left him, and seated
herself in the carriage by the side of the
astonished Signor Minuti.

When they had driven out of sight, Plessis
still remained standing where Ina had parted
from him. There was a strange radiance in
the expression o£ his face, as he murmured
to himself : " For that lady I could die !
She touched this hand. I swear that it shall
achieve great things in honour of her ! And
I pray to God that it may never be sullied
by an evil deed, or become unworthy of the
hand that has touched it. She is a queen
among women, and J am her servant for
ever.'''

Well, Ina, I am glad that you have met

him. I wished you to know more of him.
He is the genius I told you of. Do you
not think him a fine fellow ? "

There is one thing puzzles me, Signor
Minuti ; he looks like a man who could really
love, and — he was engaged to the little
peasant who has married some one else ; and
yet — he does not seem to mind it. Is that
the efibct of his religion, or what ? "

He is a good and pious young man, I
grant. But I must admit that I do not
think he had much to bear in this case. We
painters are an imaginative race, and too
often make ourselves miserable for life by
our fancies. He has had an escape, and
knows it."

'* I cannot understand that ; I think people
love — or do not love. There must be a want
of depth in his character."

'' That there is not ! It is its very depth
that makes Plessis's nature capable of a
grand and noble love, and also gives him the
powcx' to cast aside a rootless fancy, created
by his poetic imagination."

'rit may be as you say; but I do not
understand him. And though he seems an
interesting character, I own I never wish to
G 2

see him again ; for the sight of him is painful
to me."

'' Poor fellow ! "

"It is not his fault. After all, it can
matter to no one ; for we are in such different
spheres of life that we shall never again
meet each other."

*' I think you are in different spheres ! "
said the painter, indignantly. " Bee is in the
paradise of Art, and is filled by noble
aspirations — whilst you, poor child, are
stumbling in the Slough of Despond."
Signor Minuti would hardly have spoken so
strongly to Ina if he had heard her last
words to Plessis ; but, as it was, he was
growing impatient with what seemed to him
her intolerable pride.

Anyway, I shall be in Rome, and he in
Florence ; so we need not quarrel about
him. Yes ! Signor Minuti, I daresay he is
far better than I am — he could not well be

worse."

No ! silly child, you are a good girl, and
I love you dearly ; and in any trouble mind
you come to me, for I have adopted you as
my daughter. But then, you see, I have
also adopted Plessis as my son — and my

children should love each other — or, at least,
respect," he added.

And I will respect him ! You would
not care for him, if he were unworthy. In
this world we cannot know each other's
hearts, and must be guided by external circumstances
; but we can, at least, be
charitable, and I fear I have been growing
uncharitable. My brother is more religious
than I, and, therefore, he rebuked me ; but
I will respect him — and try to believe."

You are a good child, Ina, and one cannot
expect you to forget your trouble ; but I
can see that you will, in time, conquer it.
You have a brave heart, and Providence
always helps those who help themselves ! "

PASTING.

ALESSIO saw Ina once again, two days
after their meeting on the Collii. She
was walking in the town at the time. She
spoke to him, and he walked along by her
side the length of a street.

I hope you will succeed well in both
painting and poetry ! I daresay Signor
Minuti will tell me about you ; for he
intends writing to me." She spoke in a
gracious, condescending way, and he replied
as a minstrel or troubadour of old might
have done.

'' Yes, Signorina, I will strive to be
great — both because it is well to do one's
best, and because I would that you should
hear good of me. Your kind wishes will
give me strength, your sympathy will endow
me with patience."

Ina thought his words a little too strong,
and far more than the position warranted.
She did not know the man ; therefore, she
misunderstood him.

'* I do not see that my approbation need
give you so much pleasure. I am no judge
of art. Signor Minuti is both your best
friend and best critic, I should say."

'^ Oh, Signorina, it is your encouragement
that is of the most consequence to me.
What Beatrice was to Dante, you are to me.
There is no one in the world I admire so
much."

Ina drew herself up, pride and indignation
in her expression. Without a word she
left him. And thus they parted.

** She is so proud that she would not even
let me admire her," thought poor Plessis,
bitterly. His admiration had been so simple
and innocent that he could not understand
how he had offended. It was such respect
and homage as he would have accorded to
a queen. He had hoped nothing, fancied
nothing, and the mere thought of love, in
the ordinary sense of the term, would have
been offensive to him. Suddenly, however,
an idea flashed across his mind — that she

had not taken his words as they were meant.
What was in reality innocent homage, she
had, perhaps, considered impertinent components
and love-making. His cheeks
flushed, and his heart seemed almost to
cease beating, so overwhelming was the idea.
Thus Ina herself, was the first to cause the
idea of love to enter Alessio^s mind. He
had never imagined that he could dare to
love her in any other way than as a faithful
servant. He now perceived that his words
must have sounded bold, and he also saw
how hopeless would have been any attempt
to court her. She was so proud, so — but
the very thought that he could have courted
her, was rapture. Thus he went home
hopeless, but triumphant. She was his
queen — though he could never be her king.

As for Ina, she hurried along, feeling very
indignant. It was not pede that had made
her so angry with Plessis ; but she thought
that he, knowing her recent disappointment,
should not have dared to speak words of love
or admiration to her. What had she to do
with love ? Ah ! all men were alike bad —
and Signor Minuti was deceived in his fine
young genius.

But, before Ina readied her home, she
was fated to meet with another adventure.
She saw her false lover standing by her side,
and heard him speaking words of eager
pleading. He really was in love with her,
after his own fashion ; and, what he could
not get easily, always acquired an additional
value in his eyes — and he also regretted the
loss of her fortune.

'' Ina, my beautiful one, look at me ! I
am dying for your sake ! I cannot exist
without you."

She turned very pale, but replied firmly,
and with irony in her tone.

'' I am sorry to hear you cannot exist
without me ; for, if so, you will die early
tomorrow morning, as I then leave Florence
for ever."

Oh, my love, you mock me ! Is your
heart of stone ? "

'' Alas, no ! it would have been better forme
if it had been."

'' But you look ill, you too have suffered !
I am sure you do love me still ! Say
you forgive me, and all shall yet be
well ! "

^' I do not love you in the slightest degree,

and it is as much as I can do, to prevent myself
from hating you."

'' You do not mean that ? "

'ado!"

*' Oh ! you drive me desperate ! I shall
commit suicide."

I do not think you will ; but that is your
own affair — I cannot prevent you."

** Cruel one ! my death will be at your
door ! " and he rushed away, looking quite
tragic.

Conte Carlo actually went to the Lung-arno
and gazed down at the water ; but it
looked so cold and muddy that he turned
away with a shudder, and, going into a
cafe, ordered some brandy, which he drank
with great gusto. He decided against
suicide, and began to arrange his plans for
finding another heiress.

Ina went into her house wearily. She
was not pained by Carlo now ; but she was
thoroughly disgusted. How could she ever
have cared for him ! All the world was
hollow and bad, she thought.

She stood by her window that evening,
looking down at the old archway for the last
time. Tears rose in her eyes as she thought

how lie had loved the place and all her
surroundings. It was here that she had
once been happy, and dreamed sweet
dreams — never to be dreamed again. The
evening light streamed softly through the
old arch — the city bells were ringing the
hour — and everything seemed sad and subdued,
as Ina stood there saying to Florence
her last good-bye. In the street below she
heard a poor idiot singing a sad and plaintive
air in a minor key, composed by himself.
This lad's history was a very sad one. When
a child he had had a bad attack of scarlet
fever, and whilst still in a weakened state
his brutal father had beaten him until he had
beaten all the sense out of him. Before the
man died he bitterly repented his cruelty,
and left his only child (the idiot) heir to all
his savings, including much jewelry, linen,
and a shop. His foolish mother wished to
marry their showman, who loved some one
else, but would have married the elderly
widow for her money. Had this marriage
taken place, and had his two uncles not been
left his guardians, the poor Lello would have
fared badly. People said his mother was fond
of him ; but this seemed more than doubtful.

for she used to beat her son frequently.
And when death seized her — before she had
time to commit her matrimonial imprudence
her son's mental and bodily condition
was much bettered ; although his uncle and
nine cousins soon squandered his patrimony.
But as they clothed and fed him
well, the rest mattered not to him.

At the present time, Lello's mother was
still living. He was a stumpy, thick set
youth of eighteen, with a decided taste for
music, He would stand still, and listen in
silent delight in Ina's garden, when he heard
her singing in the drawing-room — for the
servants often employed him on small jobs,
such as watering the flowers, and carrying
the things home from market. One day Ina
gave him a cake, and he afterwards said to
the servants, with great elation : *' The
Signorina likes me ; she gave me a cake ! "
He was simple-hearted, grateful, and harmless.
But, unfortunately, he sang in the
streets, thereby attracting the attention of
evilly-disposed men and boys, who made
sport of him. Once they tied him, head
downwards, under the arch of a bridge near
Fiesole. On several occasions these wretches

had nearly killed him by giving him spirits
mixed with petroleum to drink — besides exercising
their ingenuity in smaller cruelties,
such as shaving his head, and stealing his
hat. He often said he wished he were dead
like his father, and as he walked along the
street he sang this sad refrain : —

Poor Lello, thy mother has struck thee.
Poor Lello, poor Lello.
The mother strikes Lello.
Poor Lello, poor Lello."

The words and music were his own, and so
often did he sing this monotonous, plaintive
strain, that others caught it up, and it
became one of the popular street airs. Ina
often heard passers-by singing " Povero
Lello." Lello is now a well-known character
in Florence, and is liked and pitied by all
but a few street rascals. There was a rough
inequality in his voice, as in his poor injured
brain — and Ina thought that she had never
heard anything more sadly pathetic than
that unfortunate lad singing to himself, and
calling himself " poor Lello."

Her eyes filled with tears, and she reflected
how ungrateful we all are for the

blessings we possess. " What if I had been
Hke poor Lello ! " she thought.

The shades of night descended, and the
stars twinkled above, and Ina said good-bye
to Florence. She prayed that if ever it
were her lot to return, that she might then
have become better, happier, and more
resigned.

ALESSIO's IDEAL.

IT was exactly one year since Ina left
Florence, and it was again the early
winter season. Many changes had occurred
for Plessis. He had consented to share
Signor Minuti's studio, and had now become
a professional artist. The old painter had
also persuaded Plessis to live with him, ashe
said it was more convenient to be near
the studio. For that reason the young man
had yielded. But Signor Minuti's true
motive was, that he knew the young man
would never rise whilst he continued to live
in the shop — patrons would scorn his surroundings,
and he would never enter that
society in which he was so fitted to shine.
The old man would not have encouraged
unfilial conduct, but he saw that a temporary

separation was best for all parties.
Assunta acquiesced most unselfishly in this
arrangement ; and, as her son visited her
daily, she did not repine. La Fortunata
was pleased that her nephew was now a
'great painter" — and a gentleman. A
distant cousin kept the shop and lived with
them, and, as he was completely under
Fortunata's thumb, she now ruled the
household.

Plessis was a rising man, for Signer
Minuti's introduction had made him known,
and his own talents had won him appreciation.
He was considered a genius, and more
than a mere gentleman. The doors of the
noblest houses in Florence were thrown
open to him, and he never caused his
patrons to regret their friendliness. He
was a perfect gentleman, they said, and his
voice and poetic mode of speech were most
charming. He touched many ladies' hands
now, and many smiled upon him ; and yet, so
modest was he, and so true, that his queen
seemed just as far removed from him as ever.

He heard Ina's letters to Signor Minuti,
and though she never mentioned him, he
knew that his old friend ever wrote to

her in bis praise, and often sent newspapers
telling of his pictures. After hearing these
letters of Ina's, he worked with renewed
spirit and vigour. He was now engaged
on a large historical painting, and Signor
Minuti was touching up a portrait and
gossiping blithely the while.

'* So Columba has a little boy, and you are
the godfather, and it is called after you ? "

*' Oh, yes ! and it is truly a fine child."

A curious people are your Contadini.
Now, when I was up at San Marcello this
summer, I noticed come curious facts."

'' But you say this to me, am I not a
Contains ? "

Che ! You never were one — why, you
were educated mostly in Venice, and now
you are a gentleman."

You really think so? Am I equal to
any other gentleman ? "

'' Better, in the essentials, and quite equal
in outward polish. But, to continue — one
day I went to a mountain Festa, and was
entertained by the priest of the place on
wine, biscuits, and bon-bons ; and I was
introduced to all the curates of the mountains.
One little man, who had truly need

VOL. II. n

of a bath, looked so odd, and spoke so well,
that I asked for information about him.
Our host replied, ' He is the most learned
man on the mountains; but he has one
defect.' ' Per banco ! what defect ? ' said I.
Well, he is out of his mind. Did you not
notice that he refused to touch the wine
and biscuits ? He sees poison in everything,
and is in dread of his life.' It never
occurred to any one that the poor devil
should be put in safe keeping and touched
joe force. Is not that anecdote curious,
Plessis mio ? "

Yes," he returned, absently ; but then,
rousing himself, he added, " other people
are curious, too, certainly that American
was ; I mean the one who came to-day and
asked you — 'is the Dizzy-ole worth going
to ? ' — he meant Fiesole, but you did not
understand him for a long time."

That was merely a mis-pronunciation,
and not a national quaintness. Do not think
that I am abusing the Contadini — far from
it ; I delight in their freshness and vivacity.
And I know of other lovers as true as your
Bertoldo. When I was at San Marcello, a
case of that kind was brought under my

notice. This is the story. A young girl
had been left in destitution by her father's
death, and her lover, on hearing of the fact,
Wrote to her from Sardinia, begging her to
become his wife, and offering to retmm home
at once if she consented. The answer being
gracious, he did return, and set up house,
provided her outfit, and the marriage came
off in great style. I bought the bride a
present, and they were so grateful that they
invited me to the wedding, and asked leave
to call on me afterwards. But what is the
matter with you, my son ? You are not
listening to me;" and the old painter patted
Plessis affectionately on the shoulder.

'' Nothing, my father 1 " replied Plessis,
smiling.

But Signor Minuti was uneasy, and he
walked round the room fidgeting with the
different things. At length, in a corner, he
discovered a painting with its face to the
wall. Turning it round, he looked at it in
amazed admiration.

It was a beautiful woman, dressed in floating
white drapery, with a silvery white wreath
on her head, a palm branch in one hand and
a laurel wreath in the other, the glow of a
II 2

golden sunset forming a dazzling background,
and seeming to encircle her with a heavenly
glory.

Signor Minuti uttered an exclamation of
wondering delight. Plessis turned, and,
observing him, blushed crimson.

'' It is yours, of course ? Why did you
conceal it from me? Is it a saint or an
angel ? "

Yes, it is mine. I painted it when alone;
I did not leave it here intentionally. I call
it my ideal. The laurel wreath is to be my
crown, and she is to give it. The gold is the
light of love coming from Heaven and glorifying
my ideal."

'your ideal has a mortal form."

Plessis looked confused, but said, bravely,
Yes ! she has a mortal form, and an
immortal soul. Her spirit is more pure and
lovely than anything my imagination could
create. Surely, it is better to have her for
an ideal than any beautiful fancy."

Ah ! Plessis mio, as we say in English,
thou hast gone ' out of the frying-pan into
the fire.' Were you not wiser in loving that
little coquette than this proud lady, whom
you can never hope to win ? Why, she will

not even mention your name. I am quite
out of patience with her."

'' I do not hope to wed her. Surely, it is
as though I loved ' some bright particular
star ' — as Shakespeare says —

What power is it which mounts my love so high,
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye 1

•X- * * ♦

What hath been cannot be.' "

Why, ciel ! thou hast learnt English ! "
*' Yes ! It is a most beautiful language,
and I have studied it all this year. I have
already read much of the literature."
'* Ah ! boy, is it not her language ? "
Yes, it is hers ! Ah ! Signore, do not
laugh at me. My love may seem a madness
to you, but it is great, and real, and all-pervading.
My fancy for Columba filled my
mind and blinded me to the world around
her image shut out all else — it was a
delusion, a mirage, an unreal love, without
foundation, built of clouds. My love for my
queen is true, founded on admiration, respect,
and all the noble virtues. Witness the effect
upon me. Instead of blinding me to the
beauties of the world, at last my eyes are

truly opened. I never lived till now ! I
never knew the beauty of the world before.
Everything grows brighter and purer — for
she is associated with all. And, as your
Burns says : —

I see her in the dewy flowers,

I see her sweet and fair :
I hear her in the tuneful' birds,

I hear her charm the air :
There's not a bonnie flower that springs

By fountain, shaw, or green ;
There's not a bonnie bird that sings,

But minds me o' my Jean.'

She is my all-pervading idea, I cannot think
a thought but she is in it. She is a part of
myself — the better part. She inspires me to
noble deeds, to work hard to win the laurel
crown for love of her. Oh 1 Signore, what
a blessing is true love ! "

It has, indeed, proved one to you," said
the painter, warmly — 'you have grown
nobler than ever. But I cannot bear to
think that your love will be wasted. Ina
will never care for yon."

'' Love is never wasted."

'' But, surely, you look forward to some
end ? Do you not hope to marry her ? "

'' I have never hoped for such a thing ;
she is too far above me."

Nonsense ! I know grander ladies who
would be glad enough to have you."

'' I care not for her birth or her wealth ;
it is her beautiful spirit that is above mine.
I am but worthy to be her servant."

The old painter was almost irritated by
Plessis's ideal passion. He thought the
young man far too modest ; and that if he
could not have Ina he had better turn his
thoughts elsewhere. But, after all, perhaps
Art gained by this romantic " Aslauga's
knight" sort of worship. A visible ladylove
might have stayed the painter's hand ;
an invisible queen added power to it.

■ *^ Oh, Signore, do not think me mad ! I
am blessed, most blessed to have known her,
to have loved her. I can live content, work
content, with the thought of her in my
heart. And I know if we never meet again
in life that we shall meet in Paradise — and
there her heart will understand mine, at
last."

I ATTEMPT Tom LOVe's SICKNESS TO Fly'*

WHEN Plessis had spoken thus to Signer
Minuti, he but told him what he really-felt.
But, as time went on, things began
to wear a different aspect to him. For
months Signor Minutes last letter to Ina
had remained unanswered. Anxious, hopeless,
hearing nothing of his queen, Plessis
began to pine for the visible presence of his
love. He found that the ideal was not
sufficient — he must see her again at all costs.
He grew pale, and thin, and listless.

The old painter watched Plessis anxiously;
he saw that he must be aroused from this
condition of hopeless melancholy, though
disappointment might await him ; anything
was better than despair. So, one day towards
the middle of March, the old man said
kindly :

"Plessis mio, I think thou neatest a
change. Thou hadst better go to the Villa
Belvedere at Castellamare di Stadia."

Plessis's face brightened. " Oh, Signore,
you are indeed my father ! My heart is
longing to go — I have felt it dying within
me; but I did not like to speak."

Signor Minuti had suggested the last place
from which Ina had written, as he thought
that Plessis might trace her from there.

A few days later, Plessis had started for
Castellamare. Already he felt like another
man. A certain energy and determination
pervaded his every movement.

He went straight through to Castellamare,
spending one night in the train, and arriving
a^t Rome in the morning. He only stopped a
few hours at the station, and then went on
again.

He was much struck by the aqueducts of
the Appian way, the old rows of arches, and
the curious tombs and columns — they all
seemed to be jostling one another. After
that, he did not take much note of the
scenery until he neared Naples, and there,
the Camposanto, and, above all, the first
peep of Vesuvius, were most interesting.

Vesuvius looked a calm, violet coloured
mountain, with a white cloud resting on its
top. Who could ever have imagined that
hidden fires dwelt within its heart — and
that the light cloud was in reality the smoke
of the treacherous volcano ! At the Naples
station Plessis only stopped a short time,
and then went on again. How delightful
were the fresh sea breezes that blew in from
the gulf, by the side of which the train
passed. The water was a pale grey; for
evening was now approaching. Plessis felt
that he was at last nearing his love, and
that gave him spirit and courage ; and he
delighted in all these new sights and scenes.
He saw evidences of past eruptions in several
villages through which they went ; and all
the stones and rocks showed signs of a
volcanic origin.

At last, he had actually reached the station
of Castellamare di Stadia (so called, after
the old town of Stadia, that was destroyed
first by an earthquake, and then by showers
of ashes from Vesuvius). He stepped into
a very uncomfortable, jolting carozzella,
and was driven to the Villa Belvedere.
Truly, it deserves the name of *' Beautiful

Sight." But that evening it was too dark
for Plessis to observe much. He saw that
Castellamare itself was a dirty, low-lying,
picturesque village. And he went for some
distance along a level road, and then np a
steep hill, to what appeared a castellated
fortress. Old, picturesque, romantic, he was
delighted with his future abode ; and he felt
that this was indeed the place in which he
would like to meet Ina. They would actually
be living in the same house.

On a stone walled terrace that went round
the castle, the carriage stopped, and Plessis
noticed how many curious entrances and
terraces this castle pension had. One of
the English ladies who kept the house met
him most kindly, but said she had only one
small room vacant. It was rather shut out
from the rest of the house ; but Plessis expressed
himself as perfectly satisfied. In
front of his window was a fine view of
Vesuvius, surrounded by those plains on
which are Herculaneum, Pompeii, and the
other doomed villages. The hostess told
Plessis that the pensionnaires were at dinner
in the salle-manger ; so he at once proceeded
there. With a glad heart he

opened the door ; for he hoped to see Ina
again.

The dining-room was an enormous long-shaped
room, with such a length of table
that you could hardly distinguish the people
at one end whilst seated at the other.
Plessis took his place near the head, next to
the principal English mistress of the house.
Her sister was at the foot of the table, and
the French lady partner at one of the sides.
Plessis saw that about fifty persons were
seated at the table, and he knew at once, by
a sort of occult sympathy, that Ina was not
there. His heart felt a cold chill of disappointment,
and he only played with his
food — hardly hearing what the kind Miss B.
was saying to him.

After a time he turned to her, and said,
timidly : —

Have you not a Mrs. Hume staying
here ? ''

The lady thought for a moment — 'you
mean a lady called Hume with a handsome
niece. Miss Laurence ? "

*' Yes ; are they here ? "

No ; they were here, but they left two
months ago. I have not their address. Mrs.

Hume lead been ill, and I fancy she went
away for quiet, and that they left no address,
because they did not wish any of the
acquaintances they had made here, to visit
them. My private opinion is, that they are
somewhere in the neighbourhood, although
they have not been seen by any one. But
Mrs. Hume was not equal to a long journey,
I am sure. If they are friends of yours, I
daresay that by a little patient search you
will easily come upon their traces*'

Thank you, Signora."

Poor Plessis ! he felt so dispirited that he
went straight to his room after dinner, and
did not join the others in the drawing-room
all the evening.

Opening his window Plessis looked out at
Vesuvius. There was no longer the innocent
little white cloud over it — it was flaming
away now. He had been told that it was
only a reflection on the smoke ; but Plessis
could hardly credit that.

His troubled mind affected him even in
sleep, causing him to dream bad dreams.
He fancied that he saw Ina on the adore of
the inner cone of Vesuvius, and that she fell
in as he approached her. He followed her

into an abyss of flame, and stretched out
this arms to save her. But the fire came
between, and he felt suffocated. With a cry
of horror, he awoke — and found that the
morning sun was shining in at the window.

He arose and dressed. Opening his door,
he found himself in a little terrace-entry
with an open arched window looking out on
the yard below. The elder Miss B. had a
room opposite his, and a glass door shut
them off from the rest of the house. This
terrace was full of pots of lovely wild ferns,
and the view from it was nearly the same as
from his room. He saw a distant line of
sparkling blue — Mount Vesuvius and Monte
Somma, with their heads covered with soft
white clouds, and the plains bathed in a
misty morning light. It was a beautiful
scene, and Plessis's artist-soul was cheered
and re-invigorated. He began to hope again.

Going up to the first floor, Plessis walked
through the billiard-room into the garden,
which was built in terraces. A lemon-tree
growing in the garden was covered with
yellow lemons ; the gulf sparkled blue and
right, and the prospect before him was
most beautiful. He was now in front of the

house. He walked down the garden and
stood still, admiring the grand Monte San
Angelo range of mountains, which were so
rugged and picturesque. On every side of
the Villa Belvedere there was a different
view, and each view was beautiful and
interesting. Plessis entered the gardener's
house, which was open to all comers, and he
was delighted by its picturesque interior. A
mild-faced cow and pretty calf, the kitchen
apparatus, and baby's cradle, — all grouped
together in one large barn-like room ! And
then, the dark-complexioned gardener and
his ■ wife, picturesque and handsome, and
their shy gipsies of children, were all alike
interesting to an artist. Plessis thought he
could find plenty of subjects for pictures
here. But, alas ! what would it all be worth
without Ina's presence. He would have
heart for nothing.

After breakfast he set off walking to
Pompeii. He wished to see it, and he had a
faint hope of meeting Ina there. He walked
along a dusty, ill-made road, and saw the
purple San Angelo mountains behind him,
and the brilliant green rice-fields on either
side. At last he reached Pompeii. With

solemn and sad feelings lie entered the ** City
of the Dead."

He first visited the small Muse that contains
casts of the poor bodies, made by
pouring hot plaster of Paris into the moulds
the figures had formed in the warm ashes ;
the bones being arranged inside the casts.
They looked so very real and pitiful, that
Plessis went forth saddened.

As he walked over the city he was
astonished by its size, and perceived that he
could not visit it all in one day. He went
alone, and into many hidden nooks where
tourists never penetrate ; for they generally
proceed only by a certain limited route where
the guides lead them. And then they go
away fancying they have seen the whole of
Pompeii ! In the Via Marina, that leads
straight to the Forum, he admired the
beautiful view of old columns and red walls
standing out against the blue hills, with
green ivy growing over the ruins. In one
house (number 10), he saw a young lady
copying the fresco of Romulus and Remus
being suckled by the wolf. Something in
this girl's figure reminded him of Ina. But
on a nearer approach he perceived his

mistake. There was an older lady with lier,
but she was not the least like Mrs. Hume.
Plessis met these two again, and noticed
that they were walking alone, which was a
most unusual thing in Pompeii, as the
guides generally keep with the tourists on
week-days, vainly trying to prevent them
from chipping the pavements and frescoes
to carry away as spoil. Plessis noticed that
all the guides who passed, these two ladies
touched their hats. And, on questioning
one of the men, he heard that the elder
lady was studying Pompeii to write a book
and give lectures on the subject. He found
the guides very polite and intelligent, though
they considered him sl foreigner. The reason
of this was, on account of the great difference
between the Tuscan and Neapolitan
dialects. However, they told him that they
could understand hin very well, and laughed
good-naturedly with him over the eccentric
language of the English and American
visitors. Plessis tried to keep out of the
way of those tourists who walked the streets
of Pompeii talking and laughing loudly ;
and flourishing their red flags, as he mentally
styled their guide-books. In spite of his

VOL. II. J.

caution, he did meet one vulgar English
couple. The lady walked in front with a
gentlemanly guide who spoke English. She
must have greatly astonished him when she
said : —

'' I have no doubt that all these old things
have hem jpiit here."

And Plessis saw her husband slily walking
along behind, with his pocket-handkerchief
full of stealing.

He then went to the newer excavations,
and watched the men digging. With a sad
and heavy heart, he was walking towards the
place of egress, when he again encountered
the guide who spoke English.

*does not this city remind you of what
Dante says, Signor ? " asked the guide, and
he quoted : —

Per me si va bella cotta dolente,

Per me si va nell' sterno colore,

Per me si va tra perdue gente.

Giustizia moss il mio alto attire :

Pecemi la divine potentate,

La somme sapiens e il primo am.ore

Dinanzi a me non fur come create,

Se non eterne, ed io sterno duro ':

Fascinate agni speranza. voi lie estate."

Yes, thou art right. But, tell me, do
you live here ? "

'' I live here always."
"Is it not very sad, very dull ? "
It might be to one who could not think.
But to one who can appreciate the beauties
of nature, it is a most interesting place.
When I arise in the early morning, I go
forth and see the sunlight gilding these
desolate ruins, and I then think of all the
people who once lived in them — and Pompeii
becomes to me a library of romances.
And then, I sit me down and repeat Tasso
and Petrarch, and I feel around me a
classical atmosphere — and my heart rejoices
in visions of Paradise, where the
souls of those poor unfortunates now rest
in peace."

''Ah! You have much to think of,
friend. I should myself like to stay here
for a time, but I fear it would make rue
too sad."

"Ah, Signore, but we have our comedy as
well ! The tourists that come in thousands
are often so ridiculous, so ignorant, tluit
they make me laugh within myself. But I
am glad that they are not here all the time,
I 2

for they take away all the poetry and
romance."

You say this to me ! Am I not a
tourist also ? '*

'* It may be that you are in name, but you
are quite unlike most of the others."

*' And you must be unlike the other
guides ! "

"I do not know that! Many of us are
well educated; but perhaps I can best
explain my feelings. Do you ever write
poetry ? "

"Yes."

'* Will you not write a poem on Pompeii?"


'' No ! It is too sad, too real ; the signs
of life are too vivid — it is a live ruin to me,
and I could not depict it in poetry. Perhaps
if I saw it with the morning sun touching
it with a light and tender glow, I might
then be inspired ; but, as it is, I cannot write
of it. You should do so yourself, friend."

'' I cannot ! I feel it too much."

Ah ! you are a poet also. Let me press
your hand."

*' Signore, it rejoices me to meet so good a
friend. Do you also speak English ? I learnt
it from a clergyman in Naples, and I have

read many romances. That English young
lady you saw sketching seems to me like
Rowena ; — I told her — ' I have read '' Ivanhoe,"
or, as you call it, Ivan-o ; you might be
Rowena and this dog Fangs.' I had much
discourse with her about poetry, and I sang
her some of the song 'La Bella Napoli.' I had
told the other lady that we would take care
of Meet — and, in fact, we did. She is a most
amiable young lady, and not proud. I shall
never forget her, and shall ever remember
the spot where I saw her sketching."

Divine ! how well you are educated,
friend."

Not so badly — in the summer I go to
teach German in a College."

'' I must leave now. Actio ! "

Arivederla, Signore. I hope to see you
again ! "

'' I will come, if I can."

Plessis left Pompeii impressed by the
guide's intelligence, but by no means as
much surprised as the '' Fair Rowena" must
have been. He was himself a self-made
man, one who had risen by the force of
native talent.

Outside the gate of Pompeii he got into
a rickety little carozzella, and, seating

himself by the driver, entered into conversation
with him. The man proved
loquacious, and Plessis managed to understand
his Neapolitan patois.

He told all his family history, and, mentioning
some of his children who were dead,
said : —

Sono in Paradis !'' (They are in Paradise.)
A beautiful way of mentioning death that is
common to that part of Italy. Plessis, as a
Tuscan, had never heard the dead spoken
of thus, and he was much pleased.

'* See ! Signor ; there are the Monte San
Angelo Mountains. On the top of the San
Angelo Mount there is a chapel to that Saint,
and every year he had his Festa, and his
statue made a miracle, and we got some
good things. But the brigands were so bad
that we could no more have the Festa, so we
carried the statue to the church in Castella-rare,
where it now is. It made a miracle
there once — but now it makes no more.
There are no longer brigands now on the
Monte. I will drive you to the church some
day if you desire it*'

I will think of it. But, tell me, what
was the miracle ? "

'' Oil ! I saw it myself; it was indeed a
true miracle. First the statue was white,
then it became red like that woman's cloak,
then black as my coat ; and, next, it began
to perspire, and water ran down. And then
it became white again as is a pocket-handkerchief."


They had now reached the Pension
Belvedere, so Plessis paid the driver and got
out.

He was glad to visit all these curious and
beautiful things, and even derived a certain
pleasure from the thought that she must
have been there too. But his mind was ill
at ease, and he could enjoy nothing properly.
So he determined to waste no further time
in sight-seeing, but to begin his search in
earnest.

Two weeks passed by, but Plessis had not
as yet come upon a single trace of In a. He
visited all the country-villages and hamlets
round about. And he went to all the islands;
indeed, to every place he could think of.
He gossiped with peasants, followed other
English ladies — but all in vain, — he could
not find his queen.

The boarders staying in the Pension were

all interested in him. They thought his
broken English very pretty, and his Italian
most poetic. But they could hardly ever
induce him to converse. He went about
looking sad and hopeless. Every day he
grew paler and thinner ; and many were the
sympathizing glances cast upon him. A
very good guess at his story had been
arrived at ; for they all knew that he was
looking for a young lady. At last, he
seemed inclined to give up in despair, and
to sit in the garden in melancholy brooding
all day long.

A kind American doctor and his wife, took
a great interest in the young man, and tried
their best to cheer and rouse him. One day
the doctor came to him in the garden.

But, friend, say, have yon been from
Salerno to Amalfi ? There are many
English people residing at Amalfi."

A gleam of hope arose in the sad, dark
eyes.

'' Thank you ! I will go*' Then despair
again came over him — " But it will be of no
use ! "

At least try, friend ; there is never any
harm in trying'*

"You are right, Signore. I quill try — and,
please God, shall have good fortune this
time."

'' I wish it with all my heart ! As you
Italians say, 'burn viaggio ! * "

THE ACCIDENT.

IT was a beautiful sunny April day when
Plessis started for Amalfi. He told
himself that this should be his last attempt
to find Ina — if he failed now, he would
start for Florence on the morrow. He
must not waste his life and energies in
painful and unavailing *^ hope deferred."
But, in spite of his sadness, his artist-soul
was stirred by the beauty around him.

The blue Mediterranean glistened and
glittered in the sunlight, and all nature
seemed to rejoice. The carriage was now
driving along the beautiful winding road
cut in the cliffs from Salerno to Amalfi —
overhanging the water all the way. Plessis
poked the coachman with his stick, telling
him to stop a few minutes for him to look at

the view — and, standing up in the carriage,
he gazed around.

The distant hills of the mainland stretched
far out into the sea — a pale violet haze,
with a range of snow-capped peaks arising
behind, and looking most beautifully white
against the cloudless sky. The water was
a delicate blue, with lines of a darker shade
at certain distances. White sailed boats
moved slowly across its surface, like birds
brooding on the wave. Two tall yellow
rocks — named the Two Brothers — stood in
the sea; and Salerno lay nestling in a
distant bay. But, the most wonderful
thing in the whole landscape, was the
colour the water took near the shore in the
numerous little coves and bays. It was a
deep sea-green, at once so profound, still,
and brilliant, that no one who has not seen
it, can form any conception of its surpassing
loveliness.

The green, the blue, the yellow, the violet,
and white — all formed a picture of wonderful
harmonies of colour, framed by the golden
sun-light. And Plessis gazed, and gazed
again ; and felt that it was good to be alive.

'' They say that this is the most beautiful

drive in Italy, and, per Banco ! I think they
are right. Our Yiale dei Collii is beautiful ;
but this is more than beautiful — it is
perfect ! "

The other side of the road was overhung
by the tall cliffs which refracted the sun's
rays with intense force. Although it was
April, the heat was already great. Plessis
told the man to drive on, as it was too hot
to remain longer in the sun.

Every now and again, the carriage had
passed through orange and lemon gardens,
the trees laden with golden fruit. But the
green leaves were already shrivelled up, and
the fruit was sheltered and supported by
wooden frames covered with chestnut
boughs. A short curly-haired boy hung on
at the back of the carriage, or ran along by
the side. When he first perceived this boy,
Plessis had been about to send him away by
a vigorous poke from his cane ; but the boy
hastened to inform him that he belonged to
the carriage. And so this original young
footman was permitted to ride behind instate.
His hair was very black, and so were
his eyes ; his face was brown, his mouth
wide and smiling, and his teeth were

white and regular. His feet were bare,
this shirt ragged, and he wore a small red
pointed cap. He was, in fact, a true Neapolitan
peasant-boy of a picturesque type.
He spoke the Neapolitan dialect, which is in
general like the ordinary Italian, with the
ends of the words clipped off. Plessis knew
the secret of the dialect, so he was able to
talk to, and understand, the natives tolerably
well.

The boy chattered volubly, and sometimes
sang. His song was a sort of droning
recitative, more like a funeral dirge than a
popular peasant song." This is the way all
the Neapolitan contadini sing. The higher
orders cultivate music very fairly, and sing
with some spirit. But the singing of the
people has a most unpleasant sound — utterly
unlike that of the Florentines, who often
walk round the town at night serenading
most musically, singing their popular airs to
the accompaniment of a guitar. Many of
them have fine voices, a good ear, and a
great capacity of expression. Not so the
Neapolitans.

Sometimes the young footman slid down
from his perch at the back of the carriage and

walked along the dusty road, amusing himself
by catching lizards in the crevices of the
rocks. Once he got bitten, and afterwards
revenged himself by throwing stones at the
offending creatures.

Plessis lay back in the carriage in silent
content. He thought — '' How I should
enjoy staying here for ever ! It is like the
Garden of Eden. But what would the
Garden of Eden be without an Eve ? " and
he immediately thought of his Eve, and then
grew sad again.

They now passed a house built under a
hollow of the overhanging cliff, the rock
covering it like a roof — it looked frightfully
perilous ; for it seemed as if a severe storm
might bring down the whole mass of stone
and crush the poor little house to atoms.
On it was written *catacombs," and the boy,
Yincenzo, told Plessis that it had been a
convent, and was now for sale. Yincenzo
called a woman who was in the garden, and
made her bring Plessis a monster lemon,
about which there was much bargaining,
and Yincenzo and the woman abused
each other vociferously. Yincenzo was also
very jealous if Plessis spoke to the coachman,

though the two joked each other good-naturedly.


They now came to a small village, consisting
of some four or five houses and a church.
It lay below the road on a level with the sea,
and it seemed as though people must be
truly in great need of building-land to have
chosen such a spot. A small winding path
led down from the road to the beach. They
could not possibly have brought the building
materials by the path — everything must
have been transported there by water. Surrounded
by lemon-gardens and with the
glistening sea in front of them, these
villagers are indeed living in an Arcadian
Paradise ; and can well afford to be cut off
from the rest of the world. Plessis was
so much struck by the picturesque beauty
of this hamlet, that he alighted from the
carriage and scrambled down the wild little
pathway, followed by Yincenzo, whose bare
feet jumped over the stones with surprising
agility.

Plessis visited the little church, inspected
the fishing-boat, and looked at the four
cottages that formed the one street. He
then walked towards the lemon-garden, in

front of which stood a large house, rather
more pretentious-looking than the others.
The front of this house was shaded by an
arbour formed by two gigantic lemon-trees,
whose branches were trained over a frame.
A bench stood under this shade, and the
golden lemons hung down illumined by the
sun's rays flickering through the leaves.

It made a beautiful picture. Plessis stood
still for a few moments and gazed admiringly,
but soon turned away with a sigh. Ina was
not there ! His artist-nature could still take
pleasure in beauty, but all too soon a sad
thought would intrude itself on his mind
and spoil the whole. To him Ina was an idea
embodied in whatever was beautiful, therefore
all beauty reminded him of her. As he
re-ascended the path, he endangered his life
several times by looking back at the lemon-lowered
house, and not attending to his
footsteps. He felt a strange, unaccountable
attraction towards that little building.

When he was again seated in the carriage,
he asked the coachman whether he could
lodge in that hamlet if he wished.

"No, indeed, Signor. All those houses
are full."

There is a beautiful Signorina down
there," said Yincenzo, with a grin.

'' What Signorina ? *' asked Plessis,
eagerly.

The Signorina Inglese ; she lives in the
house with the lemon-gardens. She is
English, I know for certain, because one
understands what she says. One cannot
understand the Americans, you know. They
are quite different to the English. I know
them well, and when one of them speaks to
the coachman I tell him not to talk to her —
she is an American, and non capii.' A little
time ago five ladies drove to Amalfi, and I
rode behind the carriage as usual. Two of
these ladies I could understand, for they
were English — the others were Americans,
and one understood nothing they said. The
young English lady said that one of these
was English also ; but she must have been
mistaken. I know well that they were all
Americans. The young lady seemed to
admire me much, and she asked me to sino*
and to tell her all about myself ! Divine !
but she was interested. I told her that mv
two brothers are sailors, now in America,
and that they can talk English and American,

VOL. II. K

and that they have been to England, America,
and Cardiff."

Plessis had made several movements
expressive of impatience ; and as soon
as Yincenzo was silent he hastened to
say :

'' Does the English young lady always live
down there, and has she been there a longtime
? "

'' It seems to me that she has been there
some months. Do you know that I am
eighteen years old. I am sure that you
would not have guessed it ! That young
lady who drove to Amalfi, and of whom I
spoke just now, said that she was much
astonished I was so old ; for, you know, I
am short, and appear young. Oh, I think
I amused that Signorina well ! When we
reached Amalfi, I defended her from the
begfsrars. And when we returned to Vietri,
before she and her friends entered the other
carriage, to drive home, she gave me some
money, just after having refused a beggar ;
for, she said, he had done nothing — and when
Pietro said, ' Vincenzo has taken care of the
ladies?' she said— 'Yes.' Oh! I like the
English. I may, perhaps, visit England myself

some day, after I have served my two
years as a soldier."

Mille Tivoli ! Vincenzo mio, but you
have a long tongue ! " said Plessis, impatiently.
'tell me, ragazetto, do you
know nothing more of the young English
lady who lives down there ? "

Alto ! I know all about her. She
is rich, and beautiful, and good. And
she lives with an old lady, who looks very
ridiculous — such a curious old one — we
call her the matta ! She does not resemble
the old English lady who drove
with my Signorina to Amalfi, that was a
good lady ! She was dressed in black,
and seemed well instructed, and understood
all I said to her. The matta dresses
herself like stentorello. She is a ver
buff a:'

Plessis thought over all that Vincenzo
had told him about the two ladies. The
description seemed to fit both Ina and Mrs.
Hume ; but he had been so often mistaken
that he would not let .himself become too
sanguine. He determined to drive to Amalfi,
and search that place thoroughly first, and
then, if he had not already found them, he
K 2

would visit that little hamlet on his way
home.

They drove on in silence — through scenes
that were pretty much the same all the way
until they reached Amalfi. There the
carriage stopped in the Piazza in front of the
church. It was immediately surrounded by
nearly all the natives of the place, who, old
and young, commenced to beg. Even a tiny
baby, who could neither speak nor walk, yet
understood how to stretch forth its little
hand for alms.

All these peasants were, as a rule, remarkably
plain ; there was a good deal of the
Arab in their type — distinguished by wide
nostrils and thick lips.

Plessis searched the village well, but nota
trace of any two English lady visitors could
he find. And he entered the carriage again
in a very disheartened mood.

The face of Nature had changed now, and
wore a new expression. Instead of glowing
colours and harmonious contrasts, a pale-grey
landscape was what Plessis saw as he
drove homewards. The sky was pale grey,
the water a deeper shade of the same colour,
and dark shadows lay on the cliffs above

and below. It was a calm and peaceful
scene, but, compared to past glories, like
a pencil drawing by the side of a brilliant
oil-painting.

Ah — life is ever thus ! Dead is my hope,
dead is the beauty of the sunlight ! " And
Plessis sighed.

They had proceeded quietly for a while,
when, suddenly, Plessis perceived a cart
dashing madly towards them. The next
moment, all was noise and confusion — and
then he knew nothing further.

When he came to himself, Plessis found
that he was lying bruised and half stunned
upon the ground. The carriage, a battered
and broken wreck, was being pulled towards
Yietri by a pair of frightened horses ; and
the cart that had caused all the mischief was
dashing on towards Amalfi. Near to Plessis,
lay the boy Vincenzo, and a little further on,
he perceived the body of the prostrate coachman.
He tried to rise, but turned giddy
with the attempt. And he was obliged to
seat himself on the ground again. Yincenzo
arose slowly, and felt himself all over,
saying :

Holy Virgin ! then the bones are not

broken ! I am not dead ! Divine ! but I
must go slowly, slowly, lest I should fall in
pieces."

'' Come here, Vincenzo mio ! Thank
Heaven, bambino, that you have received
no ill!" "

''No, Signor, I believe I am not dead
yet," and Vincenzo walked to Plessis's side.
"But you, Signor? Tell me, have you received
any hurt ? "

*' Yes ! I think I have dislocated my ankle.
I cannot walk."

A thousand devils ! this is a bad affair !
I will go to see to Pietro now."

Vincenzo returned from his errand with
abated breath and a pale face.

Oh, Signor ! he is actually dead — the
blood is streaming from him. I have fear
I know not what to do ! "

Run, run, Vincenzo, for help. Via ! lose
no time."

Nothing loth, Vincenzo did run, as fast as
his legs could carry him. He ran as though
the dead man were pursuing him; and, to
his excited fancy, so he was.

As soon as Vincenzo was out of sight,
Plessis began to survey the position of

affairs, and, the more lie did so, the more
unpleasant it seemed to him. He reclined
on a hard, dusty road, without a trace of
human-kind, or a single sign of habitation
as far as he could see. His ankle gave him
acute pain, and he felt bruised, and sick, and
giddy. The sea was grey and dreary, and
dark shadows were gathering around.

But the greatest horror of all, was the
thought of the dead coachman ; for, like a
true Italian, Plessis felt a great repugnance
to the sight of Death. However, he was a
brave and good man, and never let his mere
feelings overrule his sense of duty. He
must see if the man were really dead. He
could not let him bleed to death unaided.
Setting his teeth to keep back any exclamation
of pain, Plessis arose and limped resolutely
to the side of the prostrate man.

Though he knelt down beside him, he was
at first unable to look at him ; for the pain
of walking had made him feel faint. But,
by a strong effort of will, he kept his senses,
and began to examine into the condition of
his fellow sufferer.

The man appeared dead, and a gaping
wound in his head showed that he must have

died almost instantaneously. The open,
glassy eyes, the blood that had flowed from
the wound and lay around, the shattered
form, all made a horrible and ghastly picture.
Plessis had never seen a corpse before, and
he shuddered as he looked at this one. Controlling
his feelings, he felt the man's pulse
and heart ; but soon perceived that all efforts
to restore him to life would be quite unavailing.
The pulse of life, the breath of life,
had gone. It was but inanimate clay that
he touched — cold clay, ice-cold. Plessis
felt that it was impossible to remain in the
vicinity of that terrible dead body — so terrible
because there was no feeling of love or
friendship to conquer physical repugnance.
He pitied the man, but this body was not the
man so full of life and vigour an hour ago, —
this was only a corpse, a terrible unknown
presence.

Plessis arose, but his strength suddenly
deserted him ; and he sank upon the ground
near the coachman's body, and lay there like
one fascinated — gazing with startled eyes
upon the still white face. The shadows
around gathered faster, and perhaps it was
the fault of their flickering gloom that made



Plessis fancy lie saw the dead man move.
So vivid was this fancy, that he again arose
and walked away for a few paces, and then,
with a sudden cry, he fell down, fainting and
unconscious.

THE AWAKENING.

OUT of the valley of the shadow of Death
into the Light — such Light ! Through
the darkest hour to the dawn — a glorious
dawn ! O'er-shadowed by the cloud — at last
to find the silver lining !

Thus, Plessis opened his eyes, and saw

not the face of the terrible corpse, but

that of the woman he loved.

She stood in the light, looking like an
angel, so fair and calm. Plessis gazed on
her wondering ; and thought that he must be
dead. This was surely Heaven. Oh ! what a
glad awakening, so peaceful, so natural, and
yet full of unspeakable bliss. This was
much better than Life ! Thus he mused
dreamily, as he gazed, with half-closed eyes,
upon the face of her he had loved so tenderly.

Suddenly, his dream was shattered, and
he knew that he was not dead. He perceived
the very earthly and eccentric form
of Mrs. Hume, and it showed him that he
still lived. Mrs. Hume, poor woman, did
not enter into his idea of Paradise.

*' I fear, aunt, that he is very much hurt,
and that he will not be able to leave us tonight.
It is a great pity, but I think we
shall be obliged to give him a lodging for
this one night. You know, there is no other
house near where he could be properly
attended to."

** My dear Ina, you talk as though I did
not wish the poor young man to stay here.
I hope I am not so cruel as that ! I think
they were quite right to bring him, for his
sake and for ours. We will nurse him, and
that will be an interest."

'« Very well, aunt ; as you wish."

Ina now approached Plessis with the light
in her hand. Bending over him, she recognised
him instantly, and started back. Seeing
his open eyes, a deep blush dyed her
cheeks.

Poor Plessis saw that this recognition
gave her no pleasure, and he sighed deeply.

Alas ! it was too plain ; he was not yet in
Paradise. He spoke with pathetic pride and
disappointment.

'' Send me away at once, Signorina
Laurence ! I would not give you trouble orbe
an incommode to you. I feel myself
very ill — I have fever. I am certain to give
you much trouble ; therefore, send me away,
Signorina, at once, if you please ! ''

Ina's voice trembled, as she answered,
softly :

'' I shall not send you away, but nurse
you instead. I fear you heard what I
said to my aunt; for I did not then know
who you were, and I dreaded that the excitement
of having an injured man here,
might hurt my aunt. If there were no other
reason for keeping you here, the friend of
dear Signor Minuti would always be welcomed
by us. Forgive my seeming inhumanity
! Say you forgive me ! "

She smiled so sweetly as she spoke, that
Plessis could hardly prevent himself from
expressing his love, and telling her — that he
thanked God that he was not dead, since life
had become so beautiful now that he had
found her. But he knew he must not speak

his thoughts; for that would break the spell,
and she might then fly his presence.

Signora, I have nothing to forgive. I
know well, that you have ever a good reason
for what you do and say. You must let me
offer you my thanks for your kindness. I
feel myself most fortunate to be here."

But you would feel yourself more fortunate,
probably, if you were driving along
the road, un-injured. That is natural ;
though being here is better than lying out
on the road."

Plessis was silent ; but he thought that be
would rather be here with every bone in
his body broken — than wandering about in
hopeless search, with a broken heart. If he
had been told that he must die for those few
moments of bliss, he would have died most
gladly — knowing that his longing had at
last been satisfied. Love is an o'er-mastering
passion — and "hope deferred," in
absence, is so terrible that no sacrifice would
seem too great a price to pay for one instant
of hope, love, and certainty.

Is not your aunt here also, Signorina?
It seemed to me that I saw her at the door a
minute ago."

"Yes; she went to prepare a room for
you, wliilsfc I looked at your hurts. But I
have been very inattentive. Tell me, where
are your injuries P "

*' I think that my ankle is dislocated.
And the shock of the fall has shaken my
system. I feel fever in my veins. I have a
friend, an American doctor, Signer Smith,
who is now staying at the Pension Belvedere.
When it is convenient to you, it would be
well to send for him. Do you not think so,
Signorina? "

At this moment Mrs. Hume entered the
room. After looking at Plessis, she said —
Do you know my niece ? Somehow, I
fancy I must have seen you before ! Are
you English?"

*' No, Signora, I am Italian ; but I understand
English. I am Plessis Valencini, and
I was twice in your house in Florence. I
believe you saw me there. I am a friend of
Sign or Giusto Minuti."

Oh, I understand it now ! " and Mrs.
Hume looked very pleased. '' Ina, send at
once to the Pension Belvedere for Doctor
Smith, as this gentleman suggested ! "

'' Certainly, aunt. Here Niccolo, help

this gentleman to the spare room. And
you, Vincenzo, take Cola's mule and ride to
Vietri, and there hire a horse and ride on to
the Villa Belvedere to fetch the Signore
doctor, who is staying there."

Ina's orders were instantly obeyed — and
Plessis next found himself lying in a clean,
soft bed, tenderly waited on by an old Italian
woman called Christine, and also by Mrs.
Hume herself. He soon found out that he
was in that very white house he had so
much admired. And he knew that it was the
instinct of love that had made him feel such
a strange attraction towards it. But, though
glad thoughts flitted through his mind whilst
pain racked his body, he soon lost the
power of considering his sensations — all
became a troubled whirl, and then — a
blessed unconsciousness

Ina had been reluctant to shelter the
wounded stranger, solely on her aunt's
account. She was a woman, and tenderhearted,
so she could never have been
willing to turn a sufferer from her doors.
Mrs. Hume was in very bad health, her
heart being seriously affected, and the least
excitement was dangerous for her. But, as

she had herself expressed a wish to keep
Plessis, Ina could only hope that no harm
would ensue. For her own part, his coming
seemed to her hardly a pleasant coincidence.
It reminded her of past suffering— and of
his past presumption. Her one consolation,
lay in the thought, that a sprained ankle was
not a very serious injury, and that he would
leave on the morrow. His visit was a mere
chance, and he would hardly dare to repeat
it, or in any way intrude himself on them.

The next day Doctor Smith arrived, and,
after examining the patient, pronounced it
as his opinion that Plessis had a bad sprain,
and there had been danger of inflammation ;
but that he thought the young man could
bear the drive to Castellamare, and he
would take him away in the carriage with
him.

Ina communicated this intelligence to her
aunt, and was most unpleasantly surprised,
when she found that Mrs. Hume was determined
to invite Plessis to stay with them fora
time.

But, aunt, T thought you wished to
escape the infliction of any society but
mine ? We left the Belvedere on purpose,

and did not even give Miss B. our address."


'' I have found that no society but our
own is dull ; — and I wish for a change."

'' Would you like to return to the
Pension ? "

My dear, there is society, and society ! "

So I think. And this young man is not
fit society for us."

*' Not fit!"

'why, of course not! He is only a
common man."

A common man, indeed ! Are you mad,
child ? He is actually a genius, and Sj famous
man. All my life I have wished to know a
genius ; and now that I have the chance,
you wish to disappoint me. Ah ! you cannot
deceive me — I have heard Signor Minuti's
letters, and read the papers, — and I know he
is an extraordinary young man. But you are
always unkind to me now ! " and the old
lady sobbed querulously.

This accusation against Ina was quite
unjust ; for the poor girl bore all her aunt's
vagaries most patiently. Seeing that she
had set her heart on this thing, and that to
thwart her might make her ill, Ina gave up

VOL. II. L

her own will, and, disagreeable though she
thought it, determined to ask the young
man to stay with them. She hoped that he
would comport himself respectfully, and not
stay too long.

You may be right, aunt, as to his being
a genius. But it was not all pride in me.
You know I do not like any young men
now ! However, as you wish him to stay,
he is welcome to stay. Come with me, and
ask him ! "

Leaning on her niece's arm, poor Mrs.
Hume tottered into the drawing-room.
Plessis was lying on the sofa with his foot
bandaged, and the doctor standing by his
side. His face flushed, and he tried to rise
when he saw the ladies.

Do not get up, Signore ! We have only
come to ask you to stay with us for some
weeks, and then your foot will be quite well
when you leave. The doctor can visit you
here, and it will be much better for you not
to move at present."

"Certainly," said the shrewd doctor ; for
he had been watching Plessis' s face, and
had made a good guess at the truth.

*' Thank you a thousand times, Signora ;

you are too good ! But " — and lie looked at
Ina — " I fear to give too much disturbance."

'' Far from it," said Ina, gravely ; '' your
society will prove a great benefit to my aunt.
She needs a change, and you can tell her of
Florence and Signer Minuti."

'' Thank you ! Then I will stay, at least
for a little while." But Plessis sighed ashe
spoke. She seemed so cold towards him,
and took care that he should understand
that hie was invited for Mrs. Hume's sake
alone. But, for all that, he could not help
staying. To be near her was rapture; to
see her, hear the sound of her voice, was to
him as water to a man dying of thirst on a
burning desert. How he loved her ! He
saw how tender she was to her aunt, and
how gentle to all around her — except to /m?i,
to him alone she was still cold, alas ! Whilst
he had been away from her, his love had been
abstract and elevated; but now, though no
less elevated and ideal, it had also acquired a
strong element of personal preference. He
felt that he wanted her for his own, not
merely to be his queen — but as his loifr.
Humble-minded though he was, it was
natural that the distance between them
L 2

should no longer appear insuperable ; for a
year and six months he had been living as a
gentleman among gentlemen ; ladies had
treated him as a friend and equal ; and he
had even perceived that some of them would
willingly have had this friendship take a
warmer tone. Therefore, it was only his
intense admiration for Ina that made him
still feel that there was a gulf between them.
He knew that he could make her happy —
for no one could love her better. And he
would try to grow more worthy of her.
Poor Plessis ! though he had found his love,
his trouble grew instead of diminishing.
The more ardent his affection became, the
more he longed to win her.

Mrs. Hume treated Plessis as an honoured
guest; and he limped down to meals with
them, and spent his evenings in talking with
Mrs. Hume in the sitting-room. Ina was
cold and quiet, and he rarely addressed her ;
but he often spoke for Iter when apparently
talking to her aunt. And she grew to listen
to him, against her will. Mrs. Hume was
clever in her way, and she drew the young
man out, and was perfectly astonished by
the knowledge he displayed. Ina was more

astonished by the beautiful poetical and
religious thoughts that he clothed in such
eloquent language. And she could not help
owning to herself that there was reason for
the old painter's liking him, and that his
enthusiastic praise had not been undeserved.
She said to her aunt one day : —

I am always forgetting that he is not a
gentleman ! "

*' Why, my dear, he is the most polished
gentleman I ever saw 1 And then, how
clever he is ! I wish you would be more
amiable to him. I wonder he stays with us ;
you are so persistently cold."

'' He stays for your sake, perhaps. You
are kind enough ! "

'• I am poor company for a clever young
man like that. But his heart is as tender as
his mind is strong."

'* Well, he may be all you say — only, for
my own part, I shall be very glad when he
goes away ; for I do not wish to have anything
more to do with young men."

So marked had been Ina's want of
cordiality towards Plessis that Mrs. Hume
felt obliged to apologize to him.

*you must forgive my niece if her manners

are sometimes almost impolite. Lie has no
personal dislike to sou."

*' I do not think I have any cause for complaint.
I know that there is an immeasurable
distance between us," he said, bitterly.

I do not see it ! I think you ought to
get on particularly well together ; for, though
you are much cleverer than Ina, she is quite
an intelligent girl."

'' That is not what I meant. But I thank
you for considering me as an equal. I suppose
Miss Laurence dislikes me — I fear that
cannot be remedied."

"No, indeed, she does not dislike you!
Why should she ? The truth is, she cannot
bear the sight of any young man, because
she has had a disappointment."

Ah ! " and Plessis winced. *' Signora,"
he continued, " I happen to know all the
circumstances of the engagement between
your niece and that vagabond of a Conte ;
but I had hoped that she had forgotten him
by this time."

She does not care for him any more,
and she is very cheerful and resigned ;
but he has made her dislike all young
men. She is kind as an angel to me,

but hard as a stone to you. At least,
you will always have the satisfaction of
knowing that you have been a great comfort
to a dying old woman."

** Not dying, Signora ! "

'' Ah, yes ! I feel that I cannot live long."

''Do not say that! Think of the
Signorina ! "

I do think of her, and that makes me
sad. Who will care for her when I am
gone ? "

''Ah! Signora, would that I had the
right to care for you both ! "

Surely, you do not mean that you love
Ina? She who is so cold to you ? "

With all my heart, I love her. I have
loved her for more than a year."

I am very sorry; for she will never care
for you, I fear."

I know that, but I am still glad to love
her. And, indeed, I cannot help it. She is
to me as ray ideal."

Ina continued outwardly cold and distant as
ever ; but she was in reality observant of, and
interested in, Plessis. As the time drew near

when he was to leave them, she felt that she
should miss him — that there would be a blank
in her life. So angry was she with herself on
account of this weakness, that she avoided
Plessis more persistently in consequence.
The poor fellow became quite desperate, and
felt that he could bear such misery no longer.
So he told Mrs. Hume that he must leave ina
day's time, as his ankle was quite well
now. He said this at breakfast — after which
meal the two ladies went up into their
respective rooms to read some letters that
had just arrived from England.

Suddenly, a shrill and piercing scream
broke the stillness. Plessis judged by the
direction of the sound that it came from the
rooms above, and, from the tone, that it was
Ina's voice. He stayed not a moment to
think; but rushed upstairs, ready to give
his life to defend her. But he found that no
defence was needed, or possible, for who can
fight with Death ? Death alone was poor
Ina's foe.

Plessis entered the bedroom, and there,
stretched on the floor, was Mrs. Hume —
quite dead. A letter was clasped in her
rigid hand ; and Ina knelt beside her with a

white, scared face. She turned to Plessis
eagerly.

'' Tell me, is she fainting ? "

He knelt down, felt the heart and pulse,
and examined the body carefully. He then
took it up in his strong arms and laid it
gently on the bed. Turning to a frightened
servant who stood in the doorway, he said —
*' Go as quickly as possible to Castellamare
for Doctor Smith ! "

*' But you do not answer ! " said Ina,
clinging to his arm, and looking piteously
into his face.

*' I fear, Signorina, that she is dead. But
I have sent for the doctor that everything
possible may be done."

She gave a wild cry. " Oh ! dear aunt !
dear aunt ! I have lost you. I am now
quite alone in the world." And she knelt
beside the bed, and kissed the cold hands
and face.

Tears stood in Plessis's eyes — but she
was tearless.

Oh ! what shall I do, where go to find
peace ? Is there no one in the whole world
to help me?" She spoke wildly, hardly
knowing what she said.

'' Signorina, there is always God to comfort
you."

'' He seems so far away." She arose and
stood, pale, agonised, and desperate, beside
him. It would have been better if she had
cried.

Oh, no ! Signorina, He is not far away ! "
and Plessis caught her hands in his own,
anxious that she should feel the touch of
human sympathy — for, so desolate was she,
that even a hand she disliked might now be
welcome. '' Truly, Signorina, my heart
pities you — and how much more must the
good God feel compassion ! Your aunt is a
blessed angel in Heaven — think of her joy —
she suffers no more. And as for you. He
will not leave you desolate. He has taken
away one who loved you ; be sure that He
will give you others to love. Try to be
brave — to have faith."

She looked into his face in wild appeal;
she did not resent his touch ; she seemed to
trust him.

Do you believe — oh ! say, is she really
dead ? Shall I never see her again ? "

I believe both in God and Heaven, and
that, though your ait's body is dead, that

her soul lives truly. Yon will meet again —
for yon loved each other."

"Yes, how she loved me!" And Ina
tottered and fell against Plessis's shoulder,
weeping passionately.

It was better thus. He took her in his
arms and carried her tenderly to her own
room, and, laying her on the bed, stood by
her side watching anxiously. At last he saw
that her tears had ceased, and that her hands
were clasped, and her lips moved slowly.
She was praying. He knew that he could
safely leave her now. But, as he turned to
go, he heard her call him back. She was
looking at him with grateful eyes :

Thank you ! " she said, softly. " Bnt
for yon, I should have gone mad. Yon have
been kinder to me than I deserved."

With the truest delicacy, he attempted no
reply, bnt silently left her.

When the doctor arrived, he said that Mrs.
Hume was dead. She had been long in
an infirm state of health, and some sudden
shock must have caused her death. He removed
the crumpled letter from her hand ;
and, on reading it, discovered in it the cause
of death, as it announced the total loss of

Ina's fortune. The letter had been, most
foolishly, directed to the aunt instead of to
the niece.

Ina bore the tidings of her future poverty
very quietly. But Dr. Smith thought her
so ill, that he sent for his good wife to come
and help him nurse her. That night she
was in a brain fever.

Plessis wrote to Signor Minuti begging
him to come at once. But it was long
before he received any answer to his letter ;
and when it came, it was sent from England,
where the painter was staying, engaged on
important business. He said he would look
after Ina's affairs, but that Plessis must
look after Ina himself. When she was well
enough she must come to him in England,
to live with him as his adopted daughter.

For a long time the poor girl's life trembled
in the balance; but, at length, she began to
recover slowly. Plessis had suffered terribly
all this time ; if possible, he loved her more
than ever. His manly heart yearned over
her with protecting tenderness. And he
thought with rapture of how she had cried
upon his breast.

When he saw her again, she was looking

very pale and fragile ; but her smile was
gentle, and her manner sweet and tender.
All coldness had left her behaviour ; it had
but been a defensive armour she had worn
since her love-disappointment. But now she
had cast it away for ever.

She spoke with great enthusiasm of the
kindness of Dr. and Mrs. Smith, and said
that the latter had become a great friend of
hers. She did not tell him how often the
good lady had sung his praises, and spoken
of his romantic search for her, Ina. After
praising the Smiths, she said :

'rand you, too, have been good to me!
You were also kind to my dear aunt, and
made her so happy at the last. She liked
you very much. I cannot find words to
thank you !"

"Do not try."

'' Ah ! you do not care for thanks or
praise, because you are so good. Do you
know, it was you who have strengthened my
faith twice in the hour of trouble ?"

Plessis's face glowed — '' And you, Signorina,
have strengthened mine. But, you
have yet another friend — Signer Minuti."

'* Yes ! dear old man ! I mean to go to

him in England, and stay with him for a
short time. But, as all my money is lost, I
shall eventually become a governess."

'rob, Signorina!"

<« Work will do me good. Why, you work
yourself. Only, of course, your profession
is of a higher order."

'but there is a difference between you
and me ! "

Yes. I am not half so good or clever,"
she replied, humbly.

How he longed to take her in his arms,
and tell her that she was his ideal, his queen,
his all ! Poor Plessis's own heart alone
knew how hard was the temptation. But
he resisted the mad impulse.

Soon after this, Plessis and Ina were seated
together in the train, speeding towards Florence.
She was to stay there a day or two
to rest. Plessis had written to Columba,
asking her to receive Ina. The answer had
been a warm invitation from both Columba
and Bertoldo, who said they had ever remembered
the Signorina Inglese and Plessis
in their prayers.

Plessis suppressed the latter name, when

lie read aloud the letter ; for he thought Iii
miofht not like the connection it seemed to
imply.

How tender and considerate he was
towards her, Ina alone knew. And it would
need a woman to fully appreciate the delicacy
of all the small attentions that he
paid her, and the care for her comfort that
he showed.

He was a thoroughly unselfish man, and,
therefore, never obtruded himself upon her.
His heart was full of a proud joy — '' he teas
able to serve his queen "What more could
he desire ! He had given up the vain hope
of ever winning her love ; but he would bea
faithful squire, and might yet win her
regard.

What Ina's thoughts were Plessis knew
not. She had long observed and taken
note of his character, and she continued todo
this still. Surely, she would have been
blind indeed had she failed to perceive what
a truly noble-minded man he was ; and that
in him she might well find the fulfilment of
her highest ideal. She was very gentle and
grateful, but rather shy and reserved in her
manners towards him.

At last they arrived at Fiesole, and Plessis
left Ina in Columba's safe-keeping.

As he walked into the town to his mother's
house, he said to himself: ''Ah! I am
blessed ; I have seen her, and I have helped
her. I have won her gratitude and esteem.
Now I must work on alone, and strive to do
my duty. Perhaps in Heaven she will know
me, and lay her angel hand in mine, and
then my heart will cease to ache — and she
will understand how faithfully I have loved
her. Ah ! my beautiful one, my light, my
guide, mayst thou be blessed ! For me, I am
most blessed among men — because I have
loved thee.^^

ALESSIO's FAMILY.

WHEN Plessis readied this home, it was
late in the evening.

The family were all seated together in the
small parlour. Plessis had opened the house
door with his own key, and, walking quietly
to the room, he stood outside peeping through
the half-open door. He smiled to himself at
what he saw and heard.

La Fortunata was holding forth to a
good-natured fat woman, who had a mountain
of frizzettes and false plaits on the
top of her head — such a coiffure as delights
the more vulgar Italian taste. This woman
was knitting, as was la Sunta. A little
brow-beaten-looking man sat at some distance
from them, furtively pulling a thin
moustache ; he was their cousin.

VOL. n. M

I tell thee, oli, wife ! that he is a great
gentleman now. Yes, truly ! " said Fortunate.


The wife (as they always style a married
woman) felt slightly piqued by this excessive
praise of some one else's relation, so she
said hastily :

'' Oh ! one knows well, Sora Fortunate,
that ' to every bird its own nest is beautiful'
But, porch di Banco ! to me it appears
better to be head of Heard than tail of
lion.' And thou knowest ' a golden hammer
will not break the gates of Paradise.' "

"Arch-priest! what affair is this! You
are quite an idiot. My Plessis is a great
painter, not a little one. And, as for your
husband ! — lie is rather the tail of the lizard ;
for he is not even a good carpenter."

If thou wilt continue to insult me, Sora
Fortunata, I go ! "

Che ! Seat thyself; take not offence !
There is ' no gravy '* in quarrelling ! "

'' Oh ! I had no wish to quarrel, only
thou wert so high-headed ; ' every one knows
how to dance when fortune plays.' But, tell

**Noii che susro."

me, Sora Sunta, if your Signer Figlio is a
great gentleman, why does lie not marry? "

'' Marry! "screamed La Fortunata — '' keep
us from it ! Why should every one tattle of
matrimony ? I will not say that our Plessis
could not marry if he desired ; for there are
many great ladies in love with him. But it
rejoices me to say, that he has too much
judgment to marry in haste, for ' those who
marry quickly repent slowly. ' "

'' ' Better a chaffinch in hand than a thrush
in the bush,' " replied the sposa, sagely.

Plessis thought that he would rather not
play the part of eaves-dropper any longer,
and he also wished to embrace his mother ;
so he walked down the passage softly — and
then, returning more noisily, entered the
room. Every one rose, and nearly everyone
screamed or squeaked ; for he was not
expected. La Sunta arose, and, flinging
herself into his arms, wept glad tears upon
his breast.

'' Oh, my son, my son ! How it rejoices
my heart again to see thee ! Long has
seemed the time that thou hast been parted
from thy mother. Plessis, light of my eyes,
joy of my heart ! "

M 2

''Ah, mother, I also rejoice, again to
behold thee. I have been sick and weary,
and there was no one to comfort me. Ah !
how I longed to lay my head on thy breast,
and know that thou wert there to console
thy poor Plessis."

Console ! Mamma mia ! It is little consolation
that thou shouldst need, Signor Nipote !
Is not being a grand painter sufficient for
thee ? And then, to travel at thy ease and
see Rome, and the Pope, and Vesuvius —
arch-priest ! but thou art an extraordinary
young man ! ' '

Plessis smiled, as he saluted his aunt.
You know, aunt, there is no sweet without
the bitter, and, ' who is content, gains ! '
I do not pretend to be a saint, and have my
days of ill-temper like others."

No ! my son, I cannot believe that !
Thou hadst never an ill-temper."

Plessis smiled tenderly upon his mother,
and they sat down side-beside, holding each
other's hands. He knew his mother was
only a half-educated woman ; but he was not
the least ashamed of her for that. Nor would
he have changed her for any mother in the
world. She was a perfectly unselfish and

pure-minded woman ; and her son loved,
admired, and respected her. He thought
that he should never have a wife to brighten
his lot, therefore he must treasure his dear
mother all the more. lie would return to
live with her ; for what good had his grander
surroundings done him ? As he thought
this, Sunta was looking at him with tender,
questioning eyes. She did not feel at ease
regarding his health and happiness. She
sighed as she stroked his hand.

The visitor arose ; she had been inspecting
Plessis curiously, and was now satisfied that
she could gather no further information
regarding his appearance ; and, for the
rest — propriety now demanded her departure.


*' A very happy night to thee, Sora Sunta,
and good repose to thee also, Sora Fortunata.
How are you, Signor Yalencini? A very
happy night to you ; also to you, Signor
Poldo." And the sposa swept from the
room.

Fortunata began preparing the supper ;
and Plessis sat down and asked his cousin
Poldo various questions relating to the business
of the shop. When the table was laid

the J sat down together and began to eat
their supper.

Poldo was a timid little man, and he stood
in great awe of la Fortunata ; but sometimes
lie did, and said, very bold things from
very excess of fear. He now ate a great deal
of maccaroni very fast, and, with a piece still
hanofino: from his mouth, said :

And hast thou never thought of matrimony,
cousin ? It is a good thing ! "

'' Accursed toad ! " shrieked Fortunata,
with such vehemence that poor little Poldo
nearly choked himself, and Plessis could not
restrain his laughter.

''Oh! you may laugh, nephew! It is a
serious affair, matrimony. A ' good thing,'
indeed ! Ke had better not try it."

'' But, aunt, it appears to me, that cousin
Poldo has no desire to marry. And, surely,
if he had, it would not be a bad thing.
Because one marriage proves unfortunate,
so do not all — ' the frock does not make
the friar.' "

'' Oh ! thou ungrateful one ! Men are a
great trouble — we poor women were born
to suffer!"

'' The proverb says, ' Look at thyself and

then think of me.' Didst thou never contemplate
matrimony thyself, aunt ? "

I / I thank you, Signor Nipote ; it seems
to me that I must tell you that I have ' all
the months of the year.' I have no faith
in men ; they are of no value ! Why, on
this very day, I met Agnes Biagi, and she
was saying — ' Oh ! that I could kill first my
husband and then my mother-in-law ! ' Think
of the shame of a woman saying that ! I
said to her, ' You were a fool, Agnes, to
marry a husband ' — and she replied, * I see it
well, now that it is too late ! ' And when
those two married, all said * They are two
souls in one nut ! ' But thus it is ever, with
the men-folk ; women cannot keep themselves
too far from them ; for, ' give them a
finger, and they take the whole hand.' "

"But, aunt, it is not very polite to say
this to me ! I am a man."

It is the worse for you."

Plessis could not but perceive that
grapes were sour." His aunt was growing
more bitter in her feelings towards the other
sex; possibly because she perceived that her
faded charms no longer attracted them.
Her dislike to the mere mention of the idea

of matrimony was evidently occasioned by
the fear of Poldo's taking a wife ; in which
case he might no longer prove so amenable
to her rule. Poldo was not related to
Fortunata, he being a distant cousin of
Sunta's, and not of her brother, the dead
Valencini. Plessis could not help thinking
that it would be a very good thing if these
two made a match of it ; but he knew that
Poldo would, in that case, become an object
for pity. However, if la Fortunata had
made up her mind to have him, Poldo
would never have the courage to resist.
But she did not appear to admire him,
and spoke of his want of spirit with contempt
— although she certainly found his
meekness very convenient. She said of
herself, that, if ever she married, she would
have a lively man full of spirit. And she
sighed in secret over the thought, of a few
worn old letters lying in her drawer. They
began — " Gentile Daniell," and ended
with " vostro gentile amante." The writer
of those letters had been spirited, but false ;
and la Fortunata had never had a lover since
she had lost him, when she was only sixteen.
It was well for her, that she had not married

a lively husband with a tongue and temper
of his own ; for in that case her household
might have proved a little too lively.

What have you done all this time,
Plessis ? Did you go down the Vesuvius?
And did the flames burn ? And did you cook
an egg ? Tell us all about it ! "

'' I had not time to ascend Vesuvius'*

Not time ! Then what did you ? ''

'* I was attending upon English friends
part of the time."

'* Gentlemen ? "

'' No, ladies."

Fortunata looked suspicious, and so
Plessis. hastened to change the subject, by
presenting his mother and aunt with some
handsome silk scarves, that he had bought
for them at Sorrento.

They are very pretty, and I thank thee,
Plessis ! But, tell me ; I hope thou didst
not pay what they asked for them, for,
remember, ' do not put a razor in the hands
of a madman,' and, take care of thy money;
for, ' ended the tune, ended the dance' ; or,
'without money man does not sing.' Oh!
there are such rogues in the world, that it is
a great deal of bargaining we must do.

Why, this very day I went to buy a dress,
and the showman was a cunning black-bird ;
but, of course, I only offered him a third of
what he asked, which he refused, and said
it was what it cost him ; so I told him the
dress was faded, and I had seen it cheaper
at another shop. He then said — ' Well, buy
it there ! ' So I walked out of the shop —
and, lo ! he ran after me, and offered it to me
for less than before. After much talking, I
bought it for a moderate price, and it was not
faded and far cheaper than the one in that
other shop. What thieves there are in the
world ! But I must say, ' the Devil has
slept once for me ! ' '*

No one answered la Fortunata, and, as
supper was finished, Plessis arose.

'' Plessis, my son, I hope thou wilt remain
with us":

'* I will sleep here to-night, mother ; but
I must return to Fiesole tomorrow ; for I
am making a short visit to Bertoldo and
Columba."

La Fortunata looked at him contemptuously.
Why hast thou a wish to visit Bertoldo and
Columba? They are not fit company for
thee. ' Who goes with the lame one learns

to limp ;' and, ' better alone than ill-accompanied.'
"

'' They are not exactly friends of mine,
aunt ; but they are good people, and wish
me well."

Oh, Bene ! It is not for me to speak ; to
try to command thee would be ' to bark at
the moon.' A very happy night, nephew ! "

As Plessis and his mother went together
to the young man's room ; they heard poor
Fortunata still grumbling to herself in the
distance.

The good Sunta bustled about the bedroom,
putting everything in order ; she then
turned to her son, and, placing her arm around
him, looked affectionately into his face.

*' My son, I see it ! Thou art not happy."

'' Mother, I am not happy."

'' I knew it, my Plessis. Tell me, is it
that thou lowest ? "

*'Ah, yes!"

But thou art noble, and clever, and a
gentleman ; there can be no woman who
could resist thee ! "

Plessis smiled sadly. " Ah ! mother mine,
all women think not as thou thickest. The
one I love is far too good for me I"

"I cannot believe it! If she were the
Queen herself, I should say that thou hadst
better love a servant-girl ; for — ' too dear is
that honey that one licks from thorns ! ' "

'' My thought is different from thine,
mother. It seems to me, that it is better to
love a star than a fire-fly ; — the one you can
catch and hold in your hand, but its light
soon goes out; but the star shines on
bright and steadfast — unapproachable — but
lighting our path, filling our souls with light,
and leading us to Paradise. My life may be
sad in this world, mother ; but it makes my
heart glad and proud that I am able to say,
I have loved a queen among women.' "

The poor fellow's voice trembled, for his
mother was crying on his breast.

Oh, my Plessis ! my poor son ! Is it
for this that thou hast become rich and
famous ! That thy heart should be broken
for the love of a woman ! "

Dearest mother, grieve not for me ; my
heart is not breaking ; I am weary, I am sad ;
but I shall not die for love ! I hope that I
am too strong to be such a weak fool. And
then, mother, I am blest in having thee."

'dearest! But say — " and she looked

up hopefully ; '* art sure that she loves thee
not — that thou canst not win her ? "

'* I am sure that she is not for me ; so
great a rapture will never be mine ! "

'' Have you asked her ? "

'' I have won her respect, mother ; I
would not lose it'*

Ah! my son, thou wert ever so romantic,
thou art a true poet ! And if the lady will
not have thee, she is most foolish ; but if thou
art mistaken, then I pity her, because she is
loved by so modest a man, that he even fears
to make her the happiest woman in the
world."

Mother ! thou dost not know her ! I
should like well that thou shouldst see
her ; but I fear it will never be in this
world. We must suffer here, but we have
the joy of thinking of the world beyond —
of an eternity of peace and love. A most
happy night, dear mother ; I pray the good
God to bless thee ! Believe me, thou hast
comforted me. Kiss me again ! Actio."

NOT BUILT OF CLOUDS.

THE day after Ina's arrival at Fiesole, she
said to Plessis that she should like to
revisit her old house, before she left for
England. She was not strong enough to go
alone, and Plessis knew that Columba would
not be a congenial companion for the sensitive
young lady.

Willing to gratify her every wish, though
always feeling that there was an immeasurable
distance between them, Plessis hardly
knew how to act. He never forced himself
upon her, but rather avoided her than otherwise
; for, now that she was poor and dependent,
she must be treated with more
respect than ever. But when he could
benefit her, Plessis always forgot his timidity,
for the reason that he utterly forgot himself.

So, he now offered to take her to Florence,
and said, that they could drive down in
Bertoldo's trap at four o'clock, and return
on foot before sunset. Tna gratefully accepted
his offer ; for there was no longer any
false pride in her heart; and, had there
been, Plessis's manners could never have
grated on her sense of refinement.

Columba said, " Burn viaggio ! " and Ber-told
drove them into the town. They
went to the old house at once — and a small
douceur obtained for them admission, from
the old woman left in charge. Plessis sat
down in one of the lower rooms, whilst Ina
wandered alone over the house. He waited
patiently, though she was gone for sometime.
He could understand her feelings,
for they were kindred spirits. Though born
in such different spheres of life, they were
truly equals ; and, if a shade of superiority
did exist, it was on the man's side ; for his
was the more creative genius, — hers more
contemplative.

At last, Ina came back to him — and, from
the traces of recent emotion on her countenance,
Plessis knew how sad that visit had
been to her. She was unable to speak.

and he did not address her — merely slipping
a rose from the garden into her hand — for
which he received a silent look of thanks.
It was growing towards evening when they
stepped into the street.

They had reached the Viale Principe
Amadeo, when they were suddenly stopped
by a gentleman standing right in their way
on the pavement. Ina looked at him, and
then uttered a low cry, and she unconsciously
clasped Plessis's arm. He drew her hand
through it, and, turning haughtily to the
gentleman, said, firmly :

** You stop our way, sir ! Move on ! "

The man did not move an inch, but stared
at Ina as though he wished to learn her
features by heart. She looked at him
steadily, calmly, contemptuously.

Yes ! it was Carlo himself, but how
changed ! Shrunken, bald, hollow-eyed,
with an uncertain gait, and blood-shot eyes ;
not intoxicated, but decidedly the worse for
drink, — he was the picture of a fallen man —
of the deplorable results of dissipation. If
Ina had had any lingering regard for him
(which she most certainly had not), it would
now have fled. She might pity him, but it

would be with that pity wliicli is akin to
contempt, not to love. She shuddered as
she thought of what her fate might have
been, Hnked to such a man.

She turned hastily from him to Plessis,
whose fine manly countenance expressed the
tenderest sympathy for her. Yes ! she
could not help clinging to that strong arm,
with a comforting sense of trust and reliance.
She knew that, come what might,
he would be ever ready to help and protect
her.

'tina! Miss Laurence! Will you not
speak to me ? I have heard nothing of you
all this time, and I have been so anxious.
You look pale ; have you been ill ? "

"Canaccia!" muttered Plessis under his
breath. But, turning to Ina, he said, somewhat
stiffly — '' Do you wish to speak to this
Signore, or to proceed ? "

*' Oh ! go on, please."

And, without one look or word, she turned
from her old lover ; who was so much astonished,
and felt so crestfallen that he hardly
knew what had happened, when he felt a
strong arm push him aside, and then, saw his
former betrothed passing down the street on

VOL. II. N

the arm of that '* low jeweller'* He cursed
them both, and his luck, too, as he slunk
away. There was now no chance of Ina's
guineas repairing his shattered fortunes.
The life of a gambler was the only career
open to him in the future. No other heiress
would be likely to fall in love with him, now
that his manly beauty was lost.

And Plessis 1 how his heart swelled with
joy and pride, as he walked off with Ina
clinging to him. He had feared that Ina
still regretted her old lover ; but he now saw
how little his appearance affected her. She
had been evidently much disgusted by the
appearance of the ruined rake. But he
wisely forbore to speak; for he knew that
she must have been, to a certain extent,
overcome by this revival of old memories.

When they reached the Piazza Cavour,
near the Porta San Gallo, they perceived a
great crowd and commotion. A runaway
horse was tearing wildly towards them, with
its pale-faced rider clinging to its back.
Quick as thought, Plessis placed Ina on the
path, and, with a hurried pressure of her
hand and a look that revealed all his secret
feelings, he dashed into the road. When

the horse came near him, he seized it by the
bridle, resolutely stopping it, and using his
great strength to curb the maddened brute.
It struck out at him, kicked, and tried to
bite. But, at last, perceiving it had met its
master, it gave up all resistance, and stood
perfectly still, hanging its head and quivering
all over — the picture of a cowed and
beaten creature. Plessis then gave it in
charge to some men, and turned to the
dismounted rider, who was thanking him
warmly. The crowd set up a shout, and
many people insisted on shaking hands with
him. When able to free himself from these
too-friendly persons, he again rejoined In a,
and noticed that she had turned very pale.

*' Were you very much frightened?" he
asked, anxiously.

Yes ! " she answered,

'' Are you well enough to walk ? Do you
wish that I should take a fly ?"

'' No, thank you ; I prefer to walk."

They proceeded in silence for some time,
and then Plessis began to speak of Columba.
Plessis talked Italian to Ina, as she knew
the language thoroughly, and used all the
Italian idioms.

xr 9

'^ I think she is happy," he said. ^' She
and Bertoldo are contented in their way —
they are well-matched, too, neither being the
intellectual superior of the other. At first,
Columba said she wished that she had married
a richer man ; but now that Bertoldo is so
prosperous she can delight her heart with
jewels and fine clothes. She is also fond of
her baby, and has at last become sufficiently
serious for a wife. And, if she is sometimes
a little too foolish, and Bertoldo rather too
passionate, and if he beats her a little — that
matters not ! They are fond of each other
all the same. Their feelings are not refined.
They are a pair ; ' two souls in one nut.' I
am sure I can never thank Columba enough,
for showing me what a silly little flirt she
was ; for, had she not done so, I might have
married her, and found it out afterwards
when it was too late. We are now good
friends ; far better than we should have
been if we had married. For, you can well
understand, Signorina, that Columba would
have been no companion for me. I "

Ina had left Plessis's arm, and he now
put out his hand to help her as she suddenly
stumbled. He drew it back with a suppressed

exclamation, and stood still, looking
very pale and troubled. They had reached
the top of the hill that leads to San domenico
; at this point there is a stone bench,
backed by cypress-trees, and a little further
on this footpath joins the new carriage-road.

'what is the matter?" asked Ina
anxiously.

'nothing to alarm you, Signorina. I
have only hurt my wrist, and it makes me
feel rather faint."

Ina crossed to the other side of Plessis
and drew his uninjured hand through her
arm. Her touch acted as a restorative, and
he walked with her to the stone bench, where
they seated themselves.

But Ina arose quickly, and, leaving Plessis
there, went through a gap in the hedge into
a neighbouring field, and walked on until
she came to a little stream, in which she
soaked her pocket-handkerchief. Returning
to Plessis, she bound the handkerchief round
his wrist. He had revived, and the colour
was returned to his cheeks and lips.

"What hast thou, Signer Plessis?" said
Ina, tremulously.

Thank you a thousand times, Signorina,

for your goodness ! Be not alarmed for me ;
I have but sprained my wrist — and the water
lias done me good already. It was the
sudden movement that caused me to feel
faint. I was so stupid as to forget my
sprain. It is nothing ! Think no more of
it, Signorina. Had I broken even my arm,
your kindness would have made the pain a
pleasure to me ! " he added in a passionately
tender tone. Then, fearing he had offended
her, he said lightly : "I did not know that I
possessed such delicate nerves. It appears
to me, that I am becoming a child again ! '*

Ah, no ! Signor Plessis, your nerves are
not delicate. They are as strong as your
courage. I am certain that you have sprained
your wrist badly; you must have done it
when you stopped the horse. I fear it maybe
more than a sprain ; and that you have
dislocated your wrist ! Oh ! why did you
walk back with me ! You should have gone
to a doctor at once. It was very wrong, very

noble, — very why did you not tell me of

it? I— I "

*' I did not tell you, Signorina mia, because
I wished to have the pleasure of walking
home with you. And, as for the doctor !

It seems to me to be time enough to think of
one, when I have nothing more to do for

you."

Ina turned away ; and so Plessis could not
see the tears that glistened in her eyes — still
less could he read the feelings of proud joy
and of yearning tenderness that filled her
heart, as she thought " this brave man loves
me," and knew that he counted pain as
nothing when borne in her service. He was
a true gentleman, a true Christian ; and, ah !
what a lover to possess !

It was very brave of you to stop that
horse."

'' It was only my duty."

'' Then it was brave of you to do your duty.
Every one has not the courage to do his
duty."

I thank Heaven that so much courage
is given to me ; without it I should be less
than a man. Ah ! Signorina, you see well
that it is for this, that we men have strong
nerves and muscles. It is the poor ladies
who have to suffer most in this world.
Tell me, were you frightened ? Did you
think the horse would kick you ? I saw
that your cheeks were pale. But, surely,

you knew that I would let nothing harm
you!"

Ina blushed crimson, as she replied, in a
low voice — '' Signor Plessis, is it possible,
that you really think so badly of me ! You
might have known that my fears were for
your safety alone."

A glad light shone in his eyes, as he said,
gently :

*' Thank you, Signorina ; I am glad
that you consider me as your friend — that
you care for me a little — that you would
have been sorry if I had been killed."

You are the best friend I have in the
world. And you must not say that I should
be only ' .sorry ' if you were killed." And
there was a sound of tears in Ina's voice as
she spoke.

Plessis' s heart beat madly with hope ; but
he told himself that she Vv^as only grateful,
and that she spoke so frankly just because
she did not consider him as an equal. He
thought —" Poor Ina! my beautiful queen!
Yes, she is indeed lonely ; and I am her only
friend, in Italy at least ; for Signor Minuti
is far away in England. How I long to tell
her my love ; to convince her that she was

made for me and I for her ; that we are both
sad and lonely apart. Oh ! what rapture
we might feel if united for ever. But she
loves me not — she may never understand me
on earth. Yet she trusts me, and that is
much. I cannot win her, I must say actio ! "

Yes, Signorina, I am your best friend ;
for no one on earth can long to serve you,
more than I do. Call me your true knight,
your servant, one who will be faithful to you
even unto death. I will write poems of you,
as the Troubadours of old, wrote of their fair
queens, and, perhaps, when you are far away ;
my songs may reach you, and you will think
of me with kindness as you read them.
And then you will say to yourself — ' I am
glad that he has become a poet for love of
me ! ' and I — I shall rejoice if you ever think
of me ; for I live but to love what I can
never win."

Ina blushed again ; bit a glad light shone
in her eyes, as she turned them timidly upon
his sad face. Her hand stole silently into
his, as she said softly :

'* Oh, my friend, that will not be my
thought — I shall think — I shall think — Ah !
Plessis mio ! I love thee''

The last words were said so softly, that he
could hardly catch them, and she hid her
blushing face in her hands as soon as they
were spoken.

To Plessis, all the world seemed suddenly
filled with light. Love illumined the whole
universe. For a moment he was too happy
to think ; but when he did think, he doubted
the evidence of his own ears, and longed to
listen again to that tender avowal.

*' Signorina Ina," he said, in passionate
pleading, "forgive me if I am mad ! — but
tell me if you said you loved me ? For me,
I love you better than life itself. Love
breaks my heart — fills my soul with light —
and is a rapture and an agony. And yet,
mine is not mere passion — it is love, tender
and true. I long to make you happy ; to be
your husband, strong to protect you, true
to cherish you. I feel that you were made
to be my queen, and that I can love you as
you deserve to be loved. If I am unworthy
love shall raise, ennoble me. Ah ! Bella, I
would have been silent —been silent until
death stilled my pain, had not those blessed
words of yours filled me with a wild hope.
I owe all that is good in me to you — you

inspire me to paint, to write. Say, Signorina
Ina, can you repeat those words ? Will you
accept my faithful heart ? Wilt be my wife
and queen r '*

He drew down one of her hands, and
looked into her face with tender and earnest
appeal. Her eyes fell, but not before he had
read his answer.

She said but three words, more softly
than before — they were only a repetition :

'shove thee''

He clasped her in his arms, and she lay
nestling on his breast, crying glad tears of
sweet delight.

'' Ina, my beloved, thou art mine at
last ! "

'' Thine for ever, Plessis. Thou tallest
me thy queen — I say that thou art my Iniuj.
There is no one in the world so good as thou
art, and I could not help loving thee, my
own. I am all unworthy of thee — not good
enough to deserve thy love."

I should say the same to thee, Care, so
we will not speak of that more. To me,
thou art a queen, and I am to be thy king ;
let it remain so — and thus, we both are blest.
My religion is now the same as thine, for I

have become a Protestant. But thou wilt
dislike my relations, Ina mia, perhaps ; for
they are not like thee ? " he added, half
doubtfully.

'* Thy people shall be mine, beloved. That
love were little worth that could not love
what thou lowest ; that wife but half a wife
who could not become a daughter to the
mother who loves thee!^^

"I thank God for thee, Ina bella ! " he
replied, tenderly, as he pressed his lips to
hers.
>- Her head rested on his shoulder, and his

arm was clasped around her. They sat in
silence. Both were perfectly happy — too
glad for speech — and yet, with hearts in such
perfect unison, that they were unaware of
external silence, and felt as though they
spoke. The language of true love rises
above the power of mere words.

Both in their hearts were giving silent
thanks to Heaven for the blessing of their
perfect love.

The sky was a pale olive-green, streaked
with gold, and merging into deeper blue.
The distant hills were a soft lilac — the
dark cypress trees stood out clearly, tall and

stately, against the evening sky. The
muffled sound of bells was borne on the
quiet air — and all tidings seemed peaceful
and at rest. Still, the lovers sat there
silent. At last they arose — and walked on,
hand in hand, united in their perfect love
for ever.

FINIS.

WYMAN AND SONS, Printers, GREAT Queen street, LONDON, W.C.

i • .-^

s-^:

'. .

' • ",>.

Jm'

•'■■• ■"•V'V't'M'-^--(% -^ ♦ '

^f'.

c >
