a I E> R.ARY

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS



W€^

ri*

■mm:

^SScSMi

■;^i-m

mm

■^^

^c

#s^a^

^1^^^

/.^

:^ liobci

BY

MARY LINSKILL

AUTHOR OF

BETWEEN THE HEATHER AND THE NORTHERN SEA,' ' HAGAR,
THE HAVEN UNDER THE HILL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

Volition
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



Tic right 0/ translation is reserved]



i

J
i

Bebicateb

HYACINTH E, LADY Darby.



CHAPTER I'AGK

I. THORHILDA THEYN - - - - 1

11. A NORTH YORKSHIRE FISHER-MAIDEN - 12

III. Elysian BIGHT - - - - 24

lY. SQUIRE THEYN's SISTER, AND SOME OTHERS 31

Y. ON THE FORECLIFF- - - - 42

YI. ' Above THE SOUND OF THE SEA ' - - 48

Iii. THE RECTORY AT MARKET Hamburgh - 62

Viii. AT Garland GRANGE - - - 75

IX. ' Love's NOBILITY ' - - - - 8:5

X. ' IN ALL TIME OF OUR WEALTH ' - - 100

XL CONCERNING HAPPINESS - - - 109

Nil IN THE Village STREET - - - 120

XIII. EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES - - 128

XIV. THE STORY OF A Mistake - - 136
XY. SOME ART CRITICS - - - - 148

Chatter rare

XVI. BARBARA BETRAYS IIKRSELF - - 162

XVII. A REVELATION - - - - 173

XVIII. AT Preston MAGNA - - - 188

XIX. UNDER THE LARCHES - - - 203

XX. THE CANON AND HIS NIECE - - 21G

XXI. THAT WAS THE DAY WE LOVED, THE DAY

WE MET - - - 222

XXII. IN Larva Wake - - - - 237

Xxii CANON GODFREY AND HIS NEPHEW - 249

XXIV. 'SWEET THE HELP OF ONE WE HAVE

helped' - - - - 264

XXV. Damien ALDENMEDE AT THE RECTORY - 277

Chapter I.

THORHILDA THEYN.

• what a thing is man ! how far from power,
From settled peace and rest !
He is some twenty several men at least
Each several hour !'

George Herbert.

Happy ! What right hast thou to be happy V
This pregnant question, asked once emphatically
by Carlyle, and repeated often by him
in modified form, is certainly worthy of attention.
Consciously or unconsciously, the need
for happiness is a factor in the life of each one
of us : and no attempt to deny the need is so
successful as we dream.

Thorhilda Theyn was not greatly given to
self-questioning. So far, perhaps, there had
VOL. I. 1

seemed to be no special necessity for it in her
life — that is, no necessity caused by pressure
of outward circumstance, by any of the strong
crises that come upon most human lives at one
time or another. She was yet young ; she was
very beautiful. Life was all before her, and
the promise of it exceeding fair. What need
for question so far ?

Yet as she stood there on that blue, breezy
May morning, she felt herself decidedly in
the grasp of some new spirit of inquiry, born
within her apparently of the day and of the
hour, strong at its birth, and demanding
attention.

The waters of the North Sea were her grand
outlook. They were spread all before her
across the bay, rippling from point to point,
leaping, darting, dancing. The free, fresh,
rustling sound was sweeter to her always than
the similar sound of the wind in the woodland
trees ; and it was soothing as soft music to
watch the wavelets at play, leaping into light,
flashing for a gay, glad moment, then dissolving
instantly into apparent nothingness. Over
and over it was all rejected, and the entrancingly
uncertain certainty was as a spell to

hold her there by the foot of the tall cliffs of
Ulvstan Bight as one held in a dream.

They say that life is like that — the poets,
the philosophers Thorhilda said to herself,
leaning lightly upon the parapet, tall and
straight, and still, and beautiful. She was
dressed as became her stately style, in a fashion
that might have been of that day or of this,
so few of its details were borrowed from any
extraneous source. Her gown fell gracefully
about her feet ; her long cloak almost covered
it ; her small hands were crossed lightly, and
held her hat, so that the fair face, so sweet and
yet so strong, was all unshaded from the morning
sun. And it was a face that could well
bear the full, clear light ; no thought-line was
yet graven upon the wide forehead, on either
side of which the dark abundant hair was
braided ' Madonna-wise ' ; deep, changeful gray
eyes looked out from below the white drooping
lids that give to any face a touch of pathos — a
touch contradicted at that moment on 's
face by an evidently half-unconscious
smile, which played fitfully about her mouth.
It was a mouth that was almost childlike in
the fine roundness of its curves, and yet it was

1—2

the lower part of the face that displayed firmness,
decision. The eyes were all gentleness,
all tenderness, in repose. When the lips
smiled in conversation the eyes smiled too,
and a fascinating piquancy of expression would
suddenly light up features that had seemed
too grave and gentle ever to be piquant. The
effect was apt to be surprising ; but it was
always a pleasant surprise, and betrayed the
observer to admiration, though no such effect
had been expected on the one side, or certainly
intended on the other. Thorhilda was innocent
of the art of producing effects. That such
an art existed was a matter of hearsay, and
therefore dubious.

'They say that life is like that!' she had
murmured half audibly, ' like

" A momentary ray,
Smiling in a winter's day.
'Tis a current's rapid stream,
'Tis a shadow, 'tis a dream''

So wrote Francis Charles, over two hundred
years ago ; so others have written,' she went
on. ' And yet how different one feels ! I feel
this morning as if life were ages long. I have

lived but four-and-tvventy years, yet I seem to
have centuries in my personal memory.'

Presently definite thought passed on into
indefinite. Dreams came up out of the past,
with reminiscence sad and sunny ; and finally
came that bright yet questioning mood of
which mention has been made already, the
disposition to ask herself, not 'What right
have I to be happy?' but ' Why am I so
happy V

Once as she leaned by the edge of the sea-wall,
watching the gulls float up and down
with folded wing and yielding breast upon the
gently heaving waters, an answer came suddenly.
"Was it from the heart, or from the
brain only ? Though she was alone, she
blushed ; the long eyelashes drooped ; and a
little instant, negative movement of the head
might have been detected had anyone to detect
it been there.

No, no I It is not that, it is not that f she
made haste to assure herself. ' I do not feel
that he could make happiness of mine. No, it
is not that !'

It was perhaps significant that she did not
long continue to dwell upon the idea of Percival

Meredith. He was a neighbour, the owner
of Ormston Magna, a place some three miles
nearer to the sea than Yarburgh ; indeed, from
its terraced gardens you could look out over
the wide expanse of the German Ocean. Percival,
who was an elderly-looking man, if you
considered his thirty-four summers, lived at
Ormston with his mother, a lady who might
easily have been mistaken for his elder sister.
It had been made evident for some time to
Canon and Mrs. Godfrey that the Meredith
had especial motives for gladly accepting every
invitation that was sent to them from the
Rectory, and for inviting the inhabitants of
the Eectory to Ormston on any and every
possible occasion. Of late Thorhilda had herself
discovered the reason of all this ; and she
was perplexed, pleased, perturbed by turns.
Only at rare moments was she conscious of
any true satisfaction in thinking of Percival
Meredith and his too evident intentions.

Yes ; it was certainly significant that at the
present moment she made haste to put away
all thought of him, and went on thinking,
meditating, on the strong, glad sense of her
life and its happiness. She was not old enough,

or tried enough, to know how on such days
the mere sense of living is enough for unusual
exultation.

Bliss was it ou that mora to be alive,
But to be young was very heaven.'

So wrote Wordsworth ; but he had passed
his youth when he wrote this.

Had anyone in Thorhilda's circle of friends
Gertrude Douglas, for instance, who was
considered to be her most intimate friend —
been asked to give a reason for Miss Theyn's
happiness, Gertrude would have made answer,

How should she not be happy V

Her home in the house of her uncle, Canon
Godfrey, the Rector of Market Yarburgh^ was,
admittedly, as happy a home as a woman could
have. The Canon's wife, Milicent Godfrey, was
the sister of Thorhilda's dead mother ; and,
being a childless woman herself, with a passionate
love for children, she had done all that
might be done to make Thorhilda's life a life
full of all sweetness, all light, all good. It was
for her niece's sake that the old Rectory had
been refurnished, made beautiful with all
artistic beauty that fair means could command.

Indeed, nothing had been left undone that
love could suggest as better to be done. And
Thorhilda, having a keen appreciation of the
material good of life — too keen, said some of
the friendliest of her friends — was neither
unconscious nor ungrateful. Therefore what
reason for not being happy '?

Is it true, that old saying, ' Every light has
its shadow '?

Scientifically, it must be true, always ; but
surely the analogy will not bear stretching to
meet and to fit this human life in every possible
phase. We know that it will not, and
are happier for the knowledge — happier and
better.

But the bright picture of Thorhilda Theyn's
life was not without that enhancing touch of
depth in the background of it, which gives
both to colour and light their rightful prominence
and effect. There had been hours,
nay days, when that dark background had
claimed more of the girl's life than any foreground
object that could be put before her for
her distraction.

I must think of these things. Aunt Diligent,'
she had said. * Garland" Grange is my

own home. They are my own people who
live there

No ; there I cannot agree Mrs. Godfrey
had replied. ' Your mother gave you to me
solemnly, prayerfully, when she was dying.
She entreated me to promise that the Eectory
should be your home. . I have tried to keep
my promise.'

The touch of emotion with which these and
other sayings where uttered was usually conclusive.
Thorhilda had no heart to go on
with arguments presented to her only by an
inadequate sense of duty. If people so much
older and wiser than herself as Canon Godfrey
and her aunt considered that it was her wisdom
to sit still, why should she not agree — especially
since movement in the direction indicated
by conscience was so eminently distasteful ?

And yet from time to time conscience would
have its way. Did she really do all that it
was her duty to do in going to the Grange
now and then when it was quite convenient to
her aunt to drive round that way ; in sending
presents on birthdays and Christmas Days ; in
calling occasionally to see how her sister Rhoda
was, or to inquire after her aunt Averil ? It

was not pleasant for her to go there — the
reverse of that — and she did not for a moment
imagine that she gave any pleasure by going.
She was saved from all illusion on that head.
So far as she could remember, her father had
never once in his life said, ^ I am glad to see
you !' — never, even when she was a child,
offered her any greeting or parting kiss. Once
or twice he had shaken hands ; once or twice
he had — not at all ironically — taken off his
hat as the Eectory carriage drove away with
only Thorhilda in it ; and there had seemed
nothing; incongruous in his doing so.

His daughter knew little of him except
what she heard from others ; and it was long
since she had heard any pleasant thing. For
years past everything had been going down at
Garlaff Grange, and though repeated efforts
had been made by Canon Godfrey and others
to stop the descent, no such efforts had
availed, and it was long now since Squire
Theyn had permitted anything of what he
termed ' interference.'

Ah'll ha' next mair on't !' he had said to his
only son, Hartas, on one occasion.

Canon Godfrey had been spending an hour

with Squire Theyn — spending it mostly in
earnest entreaty ; and he had left the Grange
with the Squire's ' words of high disdain '
ringing in his ears painfully.

Ah'll ha' neri mair on't !' repeated the old
man ; and Hartas helped greatly to confirm
him in this decision.

The younger man's dislike to anything that
could touch his liberty was at least as strong
as the same feeling in the elder one. There
were some who said that Squire Theyn and
his son were not unworthy of each other : and
it is possible that the saying had more in it
than appeared on the surface. Certainly it
was one to bear investigation, had any analytically
minded person been drawn to interest
himself in the matter. And a student bent
upon humanity might have travelled far before
finding two more unique subjects for his
research.

A NORTH YORKSHIRE Fisher MAIDEN.

She was a careless, fearless girl,
And made her answer plain,
Outspoken she to earl or churl,
Kindhearted in the main.'

Christina Rossetti.

Why Thorhilcla's thoughts, as she stood thereby
the margent of the sea, should suddenly
be drawn to her brother Hartas, she could
hardly have told in that first moment. She
had not been thinking of him as she stood,
letting the breezes blow upon her forehead,
turning from watching the wide, white-flecked
sea to note the fisher folk on the beach and on
the quays. She knew nothing of any of these
save by hearsay, and yet she was aware of
something prompting her interest in a group
of tall, handsome fisher-girls who were down
by the edge of the tide — such girls as you

would hardly see anywhere else in England
for strength and straightness, for roundness of
form and bright, fresh healthfulness of countenance.


They wore blue flannel petticoats, and
rough, dark-blue masculine-looking guernsey
of their own knitting. Their heads were
either bare, or covered with picturesque hoods
of blue cotton — pink, lilac, buff, pale blue.
One, the tallest of them, and decidedly the
handsomest, had no bonnet at all, and her
rich chestnut hair blew about in the breeze in
shining rings and curls in a way that attracted
Thorhilda's attention, and even her admiration,
though as a rule she had slight sympathy
with the ' admired disorder ' school of
aesthetics. And as she watched the girl, all
at once there darted a new thought across
her brain, a new and disturbing conviction.

That is Barbara Burdas !' she said to herself.
Then she smiled a little, and wondered
at the force of a feeling that had so far-off a
cause.

Miss Theyn knew very little of Barbara
Burdas. Though the reputation of the handsome
fisher-girl was rapidly spreading along

the coast from Flamborough Head to HikVs
Haven, her name had seldom been heard
within the walls of the Rectory at Market
Yarburgh ; but one day Canon Godfrey had
spoken in a somewhat grieving tone to his
wife concerning some new rumour which had
reached his ear — a story in which both Barbara's
bravery and the influence of her beauty
were brought into prominence. Mrs. Godfrey
tried to prevent his sorrow from deepening.


It will do the girl no harm she said, with
her usual somewhat emphatic vivacity. ' Barbara
Burdas is as good a woman as I am, and
as strong. Think of her life, of all she is
doing for her grandfather and the children !
Oh, a little admiration won't harm Barbara !
It may even be some lightness in her life —
some relief ; I hope it will. She has not
known much pleasure.'

Thorhilda being present, Canon Godfrey
had made no reply at that moment ; but later
he had confided to his wife the things that he
had heard in the parish concerning Barbara
Burdas and her own nephew, Hartas Theyn.
Subsequently some guesses had been made

by Thorhilda, but they were little more than
guesses, arising out of a word dropped by her
aunt in an unguarded moment.

Now, seeing Barbara there on the beach, a
sudden desire to know something of the truth
came upon her ; and after a few moments
consideration she left the promenade, and
went down between the nurseries and the
babies, the donkeys and the Bath-chairs, to
where the shore was wet and shining, and, for
the present, almost untrodden. The wind
seemed freer, and the sun brighter there by
the chanoinor edo;e of the sea.

Miss Theyn was not a woman to saunter
on aimlessly, to wait for an opportunity of
speaking to Bab alone. She went straight
across the stretch of brown sea-tangle, going
directly to the group of laughing girls, with
that fine nerve and presence which comes
mostly of good health and right training.
The laughter died down as she came nearer ;
and with apparent courtesy Bab and her
friends half turned and drew together waiting.
They were not unused to conversation
with curious strangers.

Thorhilda was the first to speak. She

looked at Bab as she did so, and there was involuntary
admiration in her look, which Bab
saw, and did not resent. Yet there was an
unconscious touch of scorn about the fisher-girl's
mouth, a half-disdain in the inquiring
glance she fixed upon the lady whose delicate
gray silk dress had come in contact with the
slimy weed and the coarse, brown sand, and
whose small dainty boots were surely being
ruined as they sank and slipped among the
great drifting fronds that lay heaped upon
the shale. Thorhilda understood the disdain.


Are you not Barbara Burdas ?' she asked,
in her clear yet gentle voice, as she drew quite
near.

Bab hesitated a moment, during which her
lips compressed themselves firmly, yet without
discharging the scorn from the curves at the
corners. Her gaze was still steady and inquiring.
A slight tinge of colour crept under
the creamy olive of her cheek.

She was about to reply ; but it was a
moment too late. Her friend, Nan Tyas, a
young fishwife, almost as tall, almost as
handsome as herself, but in a different wav,

had come to an end of her slight store of
patience.

Looking over Bab's shoulder, her keen dark
eyes glittering as she stared straight into Miss
Theyn's face, an expression of suspicion on
every feature, she asked :

When felled ya her name V

This was meant to be facetious, and there
was esprit de corps enough among the girls to
cause it to be received as it was meant. A
general titter went round, in the midst of
which another voice found courage to remark :

Mebbe she kenned it of her loan sharpness.'


A second laugh was heard, less restrained
than before.

Thorhilda looked on with interest, but not
smilingly, still less resentfully. The moment
and its experience were new to her. Moreover,
she discerned that a grave clear look
from Bab was quelling the tendency to sarcasm.


Hand yer tongues, ya fools,' Bab said
quietly, but with a certain force in the tone
of her voice.

Theyn she turned to Miss Theyn, the

VOL. I. 2

lingering displeasure still about her mouth
Speaking with decidedly less of the northern
accent and intonation than before, she said :

Yes, Barbara Burdas ; that's what they
call ma. Ah'm non shamed o' my name. . . .
Did ya want anything wd' me ?'

Yes ; I wished to speak to you for awhile.
1 do not know that I have much of importance
to say at present ; but I wished to know you,
to ask you one or two questions. I thought
that perhaps your friends would permit me to
speak to you alone.'

A certain power in Miss Theyn's glance as
she looked round upon the six or seven young
women might have as much to do with their
compliance as the tone of expectant authority
which she involuntarily used. They smiled
satirically to each other; and then went gliding
away with the strong easy grace of movement
which seems their birthright. Thorhilda
watched them admiringly for a few moments ;
then she turned to walk with Bab in the opposite
direction ; and for a little while there was
silence ; but it was not at all an awkward
silence. Though the moment was not a facile
one, the elements of awkwardness did not exist

for these two, who walked there side by side,
so near, yet so widely separated.

Again it was-Thorhilda who spoke first.
She did so naturally, and without constraint.


Thank you for telling me your name,' she
said. ' It is only fair that 1 should tell you
mine in return ; it is Thorhilda Theyn.*

Bab did not quite stay the firm step that
was going on over the beach ; but Miss Theyn
perceived the partial arresting of movement ;
she divined the cause of it ; and she understood
the presence of mind that gave Bab
the power to go on again as if nothing had
happened.

Then you'll live at the Grange,' Bab
said, speaking as if even curiosity were far
from her.

No,' Thorhilda replied. ' I live at Market
Yarburgh, at the Eectory ; but the Grange is
my real home.'

An' the Squire is yer father V

Yes. . . . And Hartas Theyn is my
brother.'

The sun was still shining down with brilliancy
upon the blue waters of the North Sea,

2—2

upon the white wavelets that broke gently but
just below where the two girls were sauntering.
A couple of sea-gulls were crying softly overhead
; the fishing boats in the offing were
ploughing their way northward. A light
breeze fluttered the loops of grey ribbon that
fastened Thorhilda's dress. Bab's attention
seemed drawn in rather a marked way to the
ribbon. Her eyes followed its fluttering as
she walked on in silence, but it was not of the
ribbon that she was thinking.

Perhaps she was hardly thinking at all in
any true sense of the word ; yet she was
aware of some new and gentle influence that
was stealing upon her swiftly, awakening an
admiration that was almost emotion ; subduing
the natural pride that was in her ; the
strong natural independence of her spirit, an
independence of which she was as utterly
unconscious as she was of the ordinary pulsations
of her heart ; but which was yet one of
the dominant traits of her nature ; and produced
difficulties, perplexities, which she had
often found bewildering, but never more bewildering
than at the present moment. Here
was one, far above her by birth, by beauty,

by position, by education, yet possessing a
something (Bab did not know it to be sympathy)
that had the power to charm, to extract
the bitterness from pain, and the sting from
an unacknowledged dread. Bab hesitated sometime,
sighing as she repressed one impulse
after another toward unsuitable speech. The
right words would not come. At last came
some awkward ones.

If ya've anything to say, Miss Theyn, yard
better say it,' the girl remarked, decidedly
more in the tone of one urging blame than
deprecating it.

It is evident that you have nothing to
fear,' Thorhilda replied, turning to look into
the proud yet winning face so near her own.

Fear !' exclaimed Bab, a great scorn flashing
in her eyes and on her lips. * Fear ! what
would / ha to fear, think ya ? If ya dream
that I'm feared o' yon brother o' yours, or of
ony mischief he can bring about for me, ya
can put away the notion without a second
thowt. It's as big a mistake as you've ever
made. Fear ! I'm moan feared of him. . . .
Noa I . . . But Ah know what it is, Miss Theyn.
I know what's brought you here : you ve feared

for him — for your brother ! You're feared
he's going' to disgrace himself, an' you, wi'
marrying' a flither*-picker. Don't lev no fear
o' that sort, Miss Theyn !' And here even
Bab's voice grew fainter as her breathing
became overpowered by betraying emotion.
Don't lev no fear o' that sort. I'll . . . well,
I'll let ya know when he's i' danger !'

It was evident that Bab had not intended
to end her speech thus ; and other things
more important were evident also. 's
experience had not been wide, but she
had her woman's instincts to guide her, and
her instinct told her plainly that Bab's emotion
could only have one cause. This and other
new knowledge complicated the feeling which
had brought Miss Theyn to saunter there, in
the very middle of Ulvstan Bight, with Barbara
Burdas.

Other complications were at hand. 
herself hardly knew what drew her to
notice that Bab's perturbation had suddenly
and greatly increased, but instantly her eyes
followed the direction of her companion's eyes,

'■' Fathers = limpets, used for bait.

aud almost to her distress she saw that the
figure advancing rapidly toward them over
the beach was the figure of her brother Hartas.
Thorhilda's exclamation of concern did not
escape Bab's notice.

ULVSTAN BIGHT.

For hast thou not a herald on my cheek,
To tell the coming nearer of thy ways.

And in my veins a stronger blood that flows,
A bell that strikes on pulses of my heart,

Submissive life that proudly comes and goes
Through eyes that burn, and speechless lips that part V
And hast thou not a hidden life in mine,
In thee a soul which none may know for thine ?'

Mark Andre Raffalovitch,

Hartas Theyn was coming down the beach
slowly, yet with more intentness in his
deliberate gait than was usually to be observed.
He had seen from the road by the
Forecliff that the lady who was walking with
Barbara Burdas was none other than his elder
sister.

Thorhilda consciously repressed all outward
sign as she watched his approach ; her face
did not betray the sadness she felt as she

noted his slouching air — his shabby, shapeless
clothing. The very hat he wore, an old gray
felt, seemed to betray what manner of man
its wearer had come to be ; and as he came
nearer, his hands in the pockets of his trousers,
a pipe between his lips, a sullen, defiant, yet
questioning look in the depths of his dark
eyes, a touch of something that was almost
dread entered into her feeling. It was but
momentary, this strange emotion ; and she
offered her greeting without more restraint
than was usual between them.

• You did not expect to see me here, Hartas V
she said pleasantly.

No, I didn't,' replied the young man, after
half a minute's irritating silence. ' An' if I'm
to tell the truth, I don't know 'at I'd any
particular wish to see you.'

And his eyes flashed a little, as if conscious
of a certain amount of daring in his speech.

If this daring were ventured upon for Bab's
sake, or because of her presence there, it was a
mistake ; but this Hartas had not discernment
enough to perceive. Bab was looking on with
interest, but she repressed all tendency to
smile.

Tliorhilda replied instantly and easily :

That is not polite, Hartas,' she said. ' But
let it pass. I did not come here to irritate
you. And '

Could you say what you did come for ?'
interrupted Hartas, with a certain coarse
sharpness in his tone.

Readily. I came down to make the acquaintance
of Barbara Burdas. I wished to
know her ; I had wished it for some time. Sofar,
I am glad I did come. Don't try to make
me regret it.'

^ I don't spend my breath in such efforts as
them, as a rule,' rejoined the young man, taking
his pipe from his mouth, and speaking with
evident strong effort to restrain himself. ' But
have a care ! I don't force myself upon your
friends.'

True,' said Thorhilda ; and again, before
she could find the word she wished to use, the
opportunity was taken from her.

D'ye want yer sister to think she's forced
herself upon a friend o' yours V Bab asked,
still seeming as if she tried to restrain the
sarcastic smile that appeared to play about
her lips almost ceaselessly. Hartas Theyn's

manner changed instantly in replying to Bab.
It was as if the better nature within him
asserted itself all at once ; his higher manhood
responded to her slightest touch.

I don't want no Cjuarrellin'/ he replied,
speaking with a mildness and softness so new
in him that even his sister discerned it with
an infinite surprise. ' I don't want no quarrelling',
an' it's only fair to expect that if J
keep away fra ihem^ as I always lev done '
[this with an unmitigated scorn], ' they'll lev
the goodness to keep away fra me. Friends
o' that sort 's best separated ; so I've heard
tell afore to-day.'

Then, warming with his own eloquence.
Hart as turned again to Thorhilda, saying
emphatically :

I mean no harm ; an' as I said just now,
I want no quarrelling' ; but if you want to
keep out o' mischief, keep away fra me ; an'
from all interference in my affairs. I can
manage them for myself, thank ya all the
same.'

Thorilda hesitated a moment, recognising
the effort Hartas had made, and also the
element of fairness in his words, yet it was

inevitable that other thoughts should force
themselves upon her.

Hartas, do you remember that you are
my brother V she asked after a moment of
swift, deep thinking.

An' what o' that ? It's neither your fault
nor mine.'

No ; it is no one's fault ; but it is a facta
fact that means much, and, for me, involves
much. If I could forget it I should be —
well, something I hope I am not. Fortunately
for me I cannot forget it ; more fortunately
still, I cannot altogether ignore it. I cannot
let you and your life's deepest affairs pass by
me as if no tie existed. . I do not wish to
forget or to ignore. Why should you wish
it?'

Because I'm made of a different sort o'
stuff — a commoner sort, if you will; an' because
I'm cast in a different mould. Say
what you like, it isn't easy for you to look
down — fool as I am I can see as much as
that. But, take my tvord for it, it isn't any
easier for me to look up. An' why should
either you or me strive to look up or down
against the grain ? Because the world expects

it I Then let it expect. I'm good at
disappointing' expectations o' that sort. We're
better apart, a^i you hioiv it P Then turning
away, a little excited, a little angry, perturbed
by nervous perturbations of various kinds, he
lifted his eyes to discern the approach of
influences yet more disturbing to him than
any he had encountered that luckless morning.
And yet it was only two ladies who
were approaching, two elderly aud, more or
less, elegantly dressed ladies. Hartas instantly
divined that they were his aunts in
search of Thorhilda.

Heaven help us !' he exclaimed. ' Here's
two more of 'em ! Bab, let's fly. There's the
cave r

^ Me fly !' Bab exclaimed indignantly. ' It
will be the first time !' And as she stood
watching the two ladies advancing slowly over
the slimy, slippery stones and tangle, again
the half-satirical smile gathered about her
mouth. Hartas watched her face with admiration
expressed on every feature of his own ;
and Thorhilda stood, controlling the fear of a
scene that was mingled with her expectancy.
Mrs. Godfrey, the Canon's stately and still

beautiful wife ; Mrs. Kerne, the sister of Squire
Hartas, an elderly and rugged-featured woman,
the widow of a rich shipowner, had not
much irn common ; and therefore, very wisely,
seldom sought each other's society. There
certainly seemed to be something strange in
the fact of their leaving the wide sea-wall
together, and comines dow-n over the wet
unstable beach. Besides, there was that in
the expression of one of them that was at least
ominous.

SQUIRE THEYN's SISTER, AND SOME OTHERS.

O how this spring of love resemble

The uncertain glory of an April day ;

Which now shows all the beauty of the sun

And by-and-by a cloud takes all away.'

Shakespeare.

Think again, Bab !' Hartas whispered to the
only quite self-possessed one of the waiting
three. ' Think again ! There's the Pirate s
Hole !'

Go into it, if you're frightened,' replied
Bab curtly.

Hartas was silenced ; but the unpleasant
anticipation of the moment was not done
away. He smoked on more vigorously than
before. Thorhilda uttered some small nothing
to Bab, and then turned to meet the two
approaching figures. To her comfort her
Aunt Milicent's face was the face it usually

was — beautiful, kind, smiling ; free from all
disfigurement of untoward expression. She
was not a woman to mar any influence
she might have by uncontrolled feminine
petulance.

'Well!' she said cheerfully to Thorhilda.
1 thought you were to wait for me on the
promenade, dear ! But how lovely this is !
How breezy ! — And there is Hartas ! I haven't
seen him for an age. . . . Hartas — how do
you do ? And how are you all at the Grange?
We were thinking of driving round that way,
but now we needn't. . . . All quite well ?
Delightful ! But, of course, that doesn't include
your poor Aunt Averil. How I should
like to hear for once that she was quite
well'

So Mrs. Godfrey ran on in her easy, 
world way ; glancing at Barbara Burdas,
understanding, feeling acutely, all the incongruity
of the elements that made up the
surrounding atmosphere ; knowing herself to
be ten times less distressed than Mrs. Kerne,
who stood by her side, yet not too near —
silent, hard, stern, disapproving to the uttermost.
And yet Mrs. Godfrey's social nerves

should surely have been as keenly sensitive
as those of Squire Theyn's sister. All the
world knew of the upbringing of the latter ina
household where a fox-hunting mother had
been the only feminine influence ; and a
seldom sober squire, with his like-minded
brother, the ruling masculine powers. There
had only been one son, the present Squire
Theyn ; and only one daughter, the present
Mrs. Kerne ; who had attained the height of
her ambition in marrying a rich and vulgar
man. The rich man was dead ; his widow
was a rich woman ; and none the more
pleasing because during a dozen years of
companionship she had managed to add
some of her husband's coarseness and vulgarities
to her own innate ones. The force
of natural assimilation was never more clearly
proved.

Mrs. Godfrey's early recollections were of a
different order. She was one of the five
daughters of the Rector of Luneworth, a small
village in a midland county — a village where
a kindly duke and duchess had reigned
supreme, making much of the Rector's pretty
children, and affording them many advan-

VOL. I. 3

tagus as they grow up which could not
otherwise have been obtained. As all the
neighbourhood knew, the Miss Mangroves had
shared the lessons that masters came down
from London to give to the Ladies Haddington.
And, later in life, some of the Rector's
daughters had made a first social appearance
on the same evening, and in the same place,
as some of their more favoured friends. And
they were truly friends, who had remained
friendly — much to Milicent Godfrey's permanent
good, pleasure, and satisfaction —
much to her sister Averil's deterioration.
Averil had been the eldest of them all — a
clever, fretful, nervous woman, who had all
her life magnified her slight ailments into
illnesses, and who had condescended to share
her sister Grace's home when the latter
married Squire Theyn, with an inexpressible
disgust. That her sister Milicent
had never offered her a couple of rooms at
the Rectory at Market Yarburgh remained
a standing cause for bitterness. It was
not likely to be removed so long as Mrs.
Godfrey should care for her husband's peace
of mind.

It was the quick sight of Mrs. Kerne, the
Squire's widowed sister, that had discerned
the group upon the beach. She had met
Mrs. Godfrey at the turn leading down to
the promenade, accepted her invitation to
walk with her to meet Thorhilda with an indifference
that was more than merely ungraciousness,
and when they found that Thorhilda
had left the promenade, her instinct led her
to express her shallow satisfaction in somewhat
irritating speech. Peering round above
the rim of her gold eye-glass, she exclaimed
at last :

There is Miss Theyn ! — there is your
niece F — speaking as if she herself were no
relation whatever. 'What can have led her
to seek the society of fish-wives, I wonder ?
. . Ah, I see ! Master Hartas is there.
That accounts. But I did not know that the
brother and sister were on such affectionate
terms as to induce her to lend her distinguished
countenance to such as Bab Burdas
for his sake. Dear me ! What a new departure
!'

Mrs. Kerne was a short, stout woman,
moving with the ungainly movement natural

3—2

to her age and proportions. Her red face
grew redder as she descended the narrow,
unsavoury road that led to the beach, and
her usually unamiable expression did not grow
more amiable. By the time she had arrived
at the point when it was necessary to shake
hands with Thorhilda she had — perhaps unaware,
poor woman ! — acquired a most forbidding
aspect. Thorhilda shrank, as from a
coming blow ; but this was only for a second,
her larger nature conquered, and she stood
considerate, courageous.

The influence of Barbara Burdas alone held
Hartas Theyn to the spot of wet, weed-strewn
sand on which he stood, his pipe still in his
mouth, his big, unkept brown hands still in
the pockets of his trousers. The mere sight
of him seemed to awaken the ire of Mrs.
Kerne. That he should stand there before
her, calmly smoking, with Barbara Burdas
by his side, was too much for the small amount
of equanimity at her disposal. No description
made by means of pen or pencil could do
justice to the expression of her face as she
broke the brief silence, sniffing the air as she
did so as an ill-tempered horse snuffs it at the

beorinninor of the mischief he has it in his head

o o

to bring about.

I can't say that I see exactly why TVe
been brought down here,' she remarked,
glancing from her niece to her even less
favoured nephew. 'What is the meaning of
it ? An' why are you standing there, Hartas,
looking more like a fool than usual, if that's
possible ? . . . I suppose the truth is I've
been tricked I brought down here to be introduced
to your '

Stop a minute,' Hartas interposed, at last
taking the pipe from between his lips, putting
it behind him, and letting his dark eyes flash
their fullest power upon Mrs. Kerne. ' Stop
a minute,' he said. ' If you've been brought
down here, it's been by no will o' mine. I
haven't seen you this year past, and wouldn't
ha' minded if I hadn't seen you for years to
come. . . . All the same, say what you've got
to say to me, but take my advice for once,
leave other folks alone — especially folks 'at's
never melted wi' you.'

It isn't much I've got to say to you,' Mrs.
Kerne replied, the angry colour deepening on
her face as she spoke, and a keen light darting

from her small eyes. ' It isn't much I've got
to say ; an' first I may as well just thank you
for your plain speaking. I'll not forget it !
You may have cause to remember it yourself,
sooner or later. It '11 not be the first time 'at
the readiness of your tongue has had to do
with the emptiness of your pocket.'

Mebbe not,' interrupted Hartas. ^ I'd as
soon my pockets were emjDty as try to fill 'em
wi' toady' rich relations Most things
has their price.'

I'm glad you've found that out replied
Mrs. Kerne. ' But you've more to learn yet,
if all be true 'at one hears an' sees. However,
as you say, perhaps I'd better leave you to goto
ruin by your own road. You've been
travelling' on it a good bit now, by all
accounts, an' from the very first I've felt
that train' to stop you would be like train'
to stop a thunderbolt.'

Just like that ; an' about as much of a
mistake,' said Hartas, with an irritating
attempt to seem cool. But the effort was
obvious, and Thorhilda, who discerned all too
plainly whither these amenities were likely to
lead, turning to her brother, said gently :

Hartas, it is my fault that this has
happened. I couldn't foresee it, of course.
But let us put an end to it. Aunt Katherine
will take cold if she remains here on the
wet beach any longer ; and we are going
home — Aunt Milicent and myself. Hadn't
you better go too ? And shall you be at the
Grange tomorrow, in the afternoon 1 I want
to see you. Don't refuse me, Hartas ; I don't
often ask favours of you.'

It was strange how Thorhilda's voice, speaking
gently, kindly, quietly, seemed to change
the elements of that untoward atmosphere.
Mrs. Kerne's countenance relaxed all unconsciously
; Mrs. Godfrey smiled, and turned
with a pleasant word to Barbara Burdas,
who had been standing there during those
brief moments, silent, wondering, perplexed,
and not a little saddened. Bab knew nothing
of Tennyson, but the spirit of one of the
poet's verses was rankling in her heart —

If this be high, what is it to be low ?'

Bab could not put the inquiry in these words,
but in her own way, and of her own self, she
asked the question ; and later, in her own

home, it came back upon her with fuller force
than ever. Was this the surrounding of the
man who had seemed to step down from some
higher place, to condescend in speaking to her,
to seem as if he stood on the verge of ruin in
making known to her his deep and passionate
affection ? Bab understood much, more even
than she knew that she understood, but
naturally, from her social standpoint, there
was a good deal that was confusing to her.
Hitherto she had not cared to know of any
dividing lines there might be in ranks
above her own, and though discernment had
seldom failed her in such cases of pretension
as she had come across, she yet had no knowledge
of the great gulfs that are fixed between
class and class, and are only now and then
bridged over by bridges of gold. But
ignorant as she might be, she had yet discerned,
instantly and instinctively, that Mrs.
Godfrey and Miss Theyn were at least as far
above Hartas as Hartas was above herself, and
that the lines on which Mrs. Kerne's life was
laid down were more familiar to him, and, in a
certain sense, more consonant, than the lines
of the two other lives into which Bab had had

SO mere a glimpse. Yet brief as the insight
had been, it had developed an infinitude of
suggestive ideas ; and it was significant that
Bab's thought was drawn to dwell mainly
upon the gentler, the higher phase of the
humanity presented to her in those few
moments. Naturally, her thinking and wondering
was of a vague and inexact order,
but it was not without its influence, for she
recognised clearly that the hour of her meeting
with Miss Theyn was the most striking
landmark of her hitherto uneventful history.

ON THE FORECLIFF.

Whither away, Delight ?

Thou earnest but now ; wilt thou so soon depart,
And give me up to-night ?
For weeks of lingering pain and smart,
But one half-hour of comfort for my heart !'

George Herbert.

Yes ; I'm glad to have seen them,' Bab said
to herself, as she stood alone at the door of her
grandfather's cottage at night.

The children were all in bed, little Stevie
with his grandfather, Jack and Zeb in another
bed in the far corner of the attic. Ailsie was
in Bab's room, down below, a little square,
dark place, with only room for a bed and a
chair and the box in which Bab kept her
Sunday things ' — her own and Ailsie's, and
the latter were more than the former. Few
things pleased Bab more than to be able to

buy some bit of bright ribbon for Ailsie's hat,
or a kerchief for Ailsie's neck. No child on
the Forecliff was more warmly and prettily
clad than Ailsie Burdas.

It was moonlight now, the tide was half
high, and the bay was filled from point to
point with the sparkling of the silent silver
sea. There were a few fishing cobles in the
offing, two or three more were landing, making
a picturesque group of dark, moving outlines
upon the white margin of the waters. Bab
was no artist, no poet, but something of the
poet temperament there was in the girl, and
that something was heightened at the present
moment by the emotion she was contending
against, striving to hide its intensity even
from her own self. Bab had never acknowledged,
even in her inmost thought, that there
was any possibility of Hartas Theyn winning
from her a return of the affection he professed
so passionately. Father was she conscious of
that spirit of rebellion which so often dawns
with a dawning love, the spirit of fear, of
shrinking reluctance.

Hitherto the thought of becoming the wife
of a man whose position in life was superior to

lier own had held but little temptation for her.
She was not dazzled by the knowledge of
Hartas Theyn's higher standing, of his better
birth, of his reputed wealth. She would have
been o;lad to exchange her life for one that
offered greater freedom from care, greater ease,
more ability to procure for herself and those
belonging to her some of the things that were
now counted as luxuries not to be thought of ;
but she had never been prepared to sacrifice herself
too completely for such advantages as these.
She was young; and strong;, and as willing; to
work as she was able. Ashy, then, should she
dream of purchasing at a great price the things
she did not very greatly desire to have ?

But now to-night other thoughts came across
her as she stood there, other visions filled her
brain, vague visions of a gentler and more
beautiful life — a life far from all roughness
and rudeness — in a word, the life that might
be lived by the woman to whom Miss Theyn
would say, * My sister 1'

Mis sister P Bab had said the words to
herself; then she uttered them half-audibly,
with a thrill like that of the lover who first
says to himself, 'My wife.'

Could Tliorliilda Tlieyn have known it all,
could she have looked but one moment into
Bab's heart and brain as the girl stood thereby
the cottage door, feeling almost as if her
very breathing were restrained by the force of
the new vision, the compelling touch of the
new affection, surely for very humility Miss
Theyn would have been sad at heart. It was
well for her peace that she might not know.

Bab had never before come into contact with
any woman of such winning grace, such refined
loveliness ; never before had she been
moved by such attractive gentleness. And
there was something more than these — a
mystic and far-off something that drew the
untrained fisher-girl with a strong and strange
fascination, a fascination that she could neither
understand nor resist.

I'd lay my life down for her,' she said,
blushing as she spoke for the warmth of her
own word, though no one was by to hear it, or
to hold her in contempt for evermore for
having used it. The blush was the sign of
her heart's inexperience.

Thinking thus of Miss Theyn, it was not
wonderful that softened thoughts of Miss

Theyn's brother should come ; that his
humility of manner to herself should appear
in a new and more attractive light ; that the
remembrance of his affection should have more
force to touch her own ; that his oft-repeated
assurance of life-long protection and unfailing
devotion should appeal more strongly to her
imagination. Ah, what a dream it was ! how
bright ! how sweet ! how possible ! but, alas,
how very brief !

Bab would not look at the ending of the
dream : she put it away resolutely. Some
day she would be compelled to look at it,
but not to-night, not to-night. It was as if
she herself were pleading with herself for a
little good, a little beauty, a little softness, a
little ease. Some day she might have to pay
the price for the dream. "Well, let the
demand be made, and she would honour it —
for Miss Theyn's sake she would honour it,
though it cost all that she had, to the last
limit.

Yes, IVl do that ; I'd lay down my life if
so 'twere to be that she needed it !' Bab repeated,
still standing there, watching the dark,
picturesque grouping of the men and boats

upon the silver of the beach, the swiftly-changing
lights and shadows seeming to correspond
with the changes of her own thought
and emotion.

Presently a voice broke upon the silence, not
roughly or rudely, yet with a strangely jarring
effect upon her present mood, an effect that
was for the instant almost as the first rising of
auger. No intrusion could have been more
unwelcome.

ABOVE THE Sound OF THE SEA.'

" Jessie, Jessie Cameron,

Hear me but this once," quoth he.
Good luck go with you, neighbour's son,
But I'm no mate for you'' quoth she.
Day was verging toward the night,

There beside the moaning sea.
Dimness overtook the light.

There where the breakers be.
Jessie, Jessie Cameron,

I have loved you long and true."
Good luck go with you, neighbour's son,
But Tm no mate for you." '

Christina Rossetti.

The voice was the voice of David Andoe, the
brother of Nan Tyas, a brave, strong, young
fisherman, with that slow solemnity of speech
and movement which seems always to have
been won out of the moments of strife with
death and danger. David was not surprised
to find Bab standing there, though it was

nearly midnight and the world about her
was all asleep. Like others of his craft,
he was used to the keeping of untimely
hours.

No, he had no surprise ; but an unusual
sense of satisfaction came upon him, almost
overpowering him for the moment.

Waiting' for daylight, Bab V he asked
stopping near the door of the cottage and
resting upon the ground the end of an oar
which he was carrying homeward for repairs.
It looked like a lance as it stood edgewise in
the moonlight ; and he who carried it might
certainly have passed for a young knight of
an older time had his dress been other than
the knitted blue guernsey and the slouching
sou'wester of the north coast. There was little
difference between Bab's guernsey and his
own ; his was knitted in a pattern of broad
stripes, hers in a fine ' honey comb ' — the
shape was the same precisely.

Bab replied to his question with discouraging
carelessness.

No,' she said ; ' I'll get a good sleep in yet
afore the sun's above the sea. I'm bound to
be at the whither-beds afore five o'clock. . . .

VOL. I. 4

What lev ya got this tide ? Not much to
boast about, Ah reckon.'

No,' David replied, half sadly. ' It strikes
me 'at it'll be a good while afore anybody
hereabouts has aught to boast on again. If
you could put a stop to the trawlers to-night,
it 'ud take years to fill the sea as full o' fish
as it was afore them devil's instruments was
invented.'

The devil has nought to do wi' them,' said
Bab, perhaps taking a wider outlook for
contradiction's sake. ' There's more i' the
heavens above, and i' the eth beneath, an' i'
the waters under the eth, than such as you
an' me knows on. . . . Let 'em be wi' their
trawlers, an' their steam fishing' yawls, an' all
the rest of it. D'ye think they can alter the
ways of Providence ? Let 'em be !'

David was silenced for a moment, not feeling
quite sure in his own mind that this
hopeful philosophy was being countenanced
by actual circumstance. Yet for him, as for
Bab, there would have been immense, almost
insuperable difficulty in trying to set aside, or
ignore, the old, tried belief in the wisdom of
the ways of Providence. In this they were

happy, in having been trained from childhood
to at least reference for a creed that held the
Fatherhood of God, the Brotherhood of Christ,
as facts that none might disbelieve save to his
soul's imperilling. Though no intimate spiritual
influence had yet been theirs to draw them to
attempt any spiritual life of their own, they
were yet aware that such a life might be
lived ; and David's inner experience had not
been so colourless as some of his more fervid
mates imagined.

But, like most of his class, he was not given
to wear his heart upon his sleeve.

His life, generally, had much in it of which
the little world about him was only very
dimly aware. He was one of a rather large
family. The father was not a sober man ;
the mother was an ill-tempered woman, dirty
withal, and intolerably selfish ; caring nothing
for the comfort or well-being of her family so
that she might sit the long day through upon
the doorstep of her cottage, idle, half-clad, and
almost repulsive in her personal untidiness.
Yet is it strange to confess that David could
never rid himself of the old affection for her,
the old yearning for her that had so beset him

4—2

UN/VFPCITV f^,^ ,

when lie was a little lad, suffering keenly from
her cruel humours, yet suffering silently and
always forgivingly ? He had loved his mother
and worked for her, and taken thought for her
when there was no one else ; but he knew that
his mother loved not him.

Then naturally, almost inevitably, the affectionately
of his whole strong affectionate
nature had gathered itself together in another
love — a deeper and more yearning and more
passionate love ; but, so far, this had seemed
to give no sign, save in the keen and ceaseless
aching of his heart. No lonely woman ever
suffered a lonelier life, or was ever more
sensitive to the lightest touch of alleviation.

At the present moment not even Bab herself
knew the tremulous way in which one instinct
was fighting against another within him.

Go home now ; leave this pre-occupied and
unimpressionable girl till a more favourable
moment.' So spoke the instinct of commonsense.
But another and a stronger instinct
was there — too strong to utter itself in words.
It was by the depth of its silence that he was
influenced ; and he made a mistake, and he
stayed ,

It's all very well to talk i' that way, Bab,'
he said at last, answering her word as if no
other thought had intervened. ' But when
one thinks o' what Ulvstan Bight was nobbut
twenty years agone, an' what it is now, one
can't but feel half-maddened. Why there
isn't a fifth part o' the fish brown into the bay
'at used to be brown in. It isn't there to he
catched ; how can it, wi' the spawn lying'
killed at the bottom o' the sea, mashed withe
trawl-beam as completely as a railway
train 'ud mash a basket of eggs V

They tell me, them 'at knows, 'at the
spawn doesn't lie at the sea-bottom. It floats
on the top.'

'That's true of a few sorts,' said David,
half-glad that the girl should reply to him at
all ; yet suspecting an allusion to one whom he
hated with a hate proportionate to his love for
Bab. ' It's true of a few sorts ; but it isn't
true o' the sorts we depend upon for a living'.
I've had proof anufi" o' that ; an' so les my
father. Why, he was saying' nobbut yesterday
'at he'd brown into Ulvstan as many as thirteen
hundred big fish at a single catch. But
he'll never do it again — no, nor no other man.'

The last season wasn't such a bad season
for herein's,' said Bab, still speaking in a conciliatory,
but only half-interested way. David
Andoe was roused even more than before.

Herein's !' he exclaimed. ' There's nowt
like the number catched nowadays 'at used to
be. Why, I've known myself' a single boat te
take eighteen lasts at a catch ; an' sell 'em for
ten pound a last.* An' 'twas a regular thing
wiv us, when Ah was a lad, te fetch in four or
five lasts of a morning'. Now you may go till
you're grey-headed, an' you'll not do it. An' '
(here David's voice changed and softened, and
betrayed him to his own great pain), ' an' it's
non 'at Ah care so much for money, Bab, nut
on my loan account. Thou knows that !
Thou knows well snuff why Ah'd be fain to
see things as they once was, when every man
'at chose to work could live by his work,
whether on land or sea. Ah'm naught at
handiwork myself', nut having' been bred to it ;
or Ah'd soon try an' see whether Ah couldn't
mak' better adding nor Ah can noo. . An'

A last consists of ten thousand herrings ; but a hundred
and twenty-four is counted to each hundred. At Yarmouth
they count (or used to do so) one hundred and thirty two.

it's that keeps ma back ; an' hinders ma fra
speaking' when my heart's chin te saiiy a
word.'

Then dont say it, David !' protested Bab
eagerly ; and the tone of her voice attested to
the uttermost her sincerity of appeal.

I ran say it,' David replied passionately.
The' Ah can't bard the notion 0' skin' thee
to leave thy grandfather's home, wi' never
another home ready for thee to go to. But
I'd try to make one ready, Bab ; I'd try all
I could to make thee a better one I For it
breaks my heart to see thee working' an' toiling'
like ony slave. Ay, it is bad to bear, when
Ah'd work myself' te skin an bone te save
thee. But what can Ah do when meet after
meet we toil an' moil, an' come back i' the
morning' wi' barely snuff te pay for the oil i'
the lamp, let alone for the bait, or the wear
an' tear o' the lines an nets ? What can Ah
do ? An' all the while me fearing' 'at somebody
else — an' that somebody none so worthy
'11 step in, an' spoil my life for me. . . .
Bab, doesn't thee care for me a little 1 An
me sa troubled wi' cabin' for thee ! It takes
the life out o' me ; because there's nought

else, no, nought nowhere. An' what is the
good o' life to a man if there's non to care
so as how he lives it ? Non to see whether
the misery on it's more nor he can bear ;
non to help him i' the bearing' ; non to say
'' Well done !" when he's got the victory ;
an' non to speak a word o' comfort when he
falls to the ground ? What's the good o' life
when one les te live it like that ?'

You might as well say, '* What's the good
o' life at all V if ya put it so Bab replied,
sadly and gravely. The visions of the past
half-hour had not been all illumined by the
sun.

I hope I'd never be bold enough i' wickedness
to say that f David replied. ' Still,
it's often been forced in upon me 'at if folks
miss the happiness o' life at the beginning they
don't easily o'ertake it after. Ah don't know
'at Ah'm so keen set o' levin' a happy life ;
still — Ah may say it to thee, Bab — Arm doled
o' misery, the misery 'at sits at a man's fireside,
an' dulls the lowe o' the coal, an' taints the
tast ov his every bite and sup, no matter how
good it be ! Eh, but Ah am doled o' misery
o' that sort, Bab ; an' o' some other sorts.

Thee doesn't know the wretchedness of having*
every word — the gentlest ya can utter,
replied to wiv a snap o' the tongue, an' a toss
o' the head, an' a rasp o' the voice 'at silences
ya like a blow frey a hammer, an' makes the
heart i' yer body sink as if a stone had been
dropped te the middle on't ; an' all the while
the soul within ya chin', an' chin', an' chin'
for the sound of a kindly word till yare fit
te lay toon yer life wi' the longing. An' it's
not for so many days an' weeks ya ha' to
bear it — no, nor not for so many months an'
years — it's yer life 'cu's going. . . . But, eh,
me, what am Ah saying ? . . . Thou knows
nought o' life o' that kind, Bab, an' thou shall
never know, so it be that Ah lev my way.
It all depends on thyself' ! . . . Doesn't thee
care for me a little, nobbut a little, just snuff
to lead thee to promise me to wait a bit ?
Things'll be better by-an'-by ; and there'll be
two on us to fight instead o' only thyself.
Can't thee say a word V

Bab had listened quite silently ; but not
without strongly-repressed emotion. The emotion
evident in David Andoe had alone been
sufficient to awaken her own ; and there was-more

behind. Bab's first girlish thought of
love and marriage had been bound up with the
thought of David. Many a morning he had
helped her to fill her whither-basket out on the
rocks at the foot of Larva-Ness ; many a time
he had helped her to bring up the lines from
her grandfather's boat, or rather the boat in
which her grandfather had a single share ;
many a time he had helped to shorten her
daily task of mussel-scaling. Of late Bab had
not accepted his help, but this had not greatly
distressed him. The meaning of her refusal
might not be so untoward as, on the surface
of it, it seemed to be. And Bab quite understood.
Long ago she had discerned the
patience in the man, his faithfulness, his power
of loving and suffering in silence; and long
ago, at least it seemed long to her now, she
had desired to say something that should
relieve her own soul from the burden of
seeming to encourage attentions she might
never accept as they were meant to be
accepted.

She knew now that it was not love that was
in her heart when she thought of David Andoe,
and by consequence his love for her was as a

weight that she was fain to put away. Hero
at last was an opportunity.

Can't thee say a word, Bab V David had
pled in the gentle, humble tones of true
lovingness.

I'm feared I've nought to say 'at you'd
care to hear,' Bab replied quietly, and as
she spoke a light, yet chill breeze came up
from the sea, making a stir that seemed to
cover a little the nakedness of speech. ' I'm
noiin thinking' o' changing' ! nut i' noa way.
I'd never leave the chiltern, still less could I
leave my grandfather. Noa, I'll never change.'

Ah'd never ask thee to change,' David made
haste to reply. * Ah've thowt it all foot lang
sen; an' Ah can see no reason why we shouldn't
take a place — a bit bigger nor this — such a one
as Storrs' 'ud do right well. An' we'd all live
together ; an' the most 0' the work 'ud fall on
me, an' Ah'd be as happy as the day's long.
An' surely there'll be a change by-an'-by/ the
poor fellow urged, half-forgetful of the prophecy
he had uttered but five minutes before.
Either the fish '11 be easier to come by, or the
prices '11 be better, or something '11 turn up i'
some way. An* even supposing noa great

change comes at all, why we'd go on easier
together nor apart. There's nought Ah
wouldn't do for thee, Bab — noil, nought i' the
world. Ah think, indeed, Ah do think, truly,
'at Ah could never live without thee !'

Don't talk i' that way, David,' she replied.
An' try an' forget every word 'at you've said.
There's half-a-dozen lasses an' more i' Ulvstan
Bight as 'd be proud an' glad to know 'at you
cared for 'em. An' there's good women among
'em ; more nor one 'at would make a better
wife nor ever I could do wi' four bairns an' a
grandfather to start wi'. No, don't say no
more, David ! It 'ud be noa use. Don't
say no more 1'

But David was hurt, and his hurt would
have words.

'Ah'll only say this,' he urged, his dark
eyes flashing in the moonlight, 'Ah'll only say
this — you can't listen to me, because you've
thought of another i' yer mind — another 'at
'11 bring ya to misery as sure as you're born ;
an' make you bite the dust o' the eth as you've
never been brought to bite it yet. There is a
good bit o' pride in ya, Bab — pride 'at Ah've
been proud to see, because it seemed to speak

o' the high nature 'at was in ya — a nature 'at
would never let ya utter no mean word, nor
do no mean thing. But yer pride '11 he
brought low, an' hell do it ! Mark my word.
Ah've got no other word to say.'

David Andoe turned away, stung, pained
beyond endurance. There had been a certain
studied impassiveness in Bab's manner, a cold
discouragement that had never been there
before for him. He knew nothing of the
events of the day, nothing of the new elements
that had come into Bab's atmosphere ; but he
felt the presence of change, and knew it to be
full of all adverseness so far as he was concerned.
The night was a sleepless one, and
tinctured deeply with the one great trial of
his much-tried life.

THE Rectory AT MARKET Hamburgh.

I come from haunts of coot and hern,
I make a sudden sally,
And sparkle out among the fern,
To bicker down a valley.

I steal by lawns and grassy plots,

I slide by hazel covers ;
I move the sweet forget-me-nots

That grow for happy lovers.'

Tennyson.

The river Yarva ceases to bicker before it
comes to the old town of Market Yarburgh.
It winds slowly along between banks so steep
as to be almost cliff-like ; yet it has four
miles farther to flow before reaching the
more rugged cliff's by the sea. The ruin of
the ancient Priory stands on a rock at least
two hundred feet above the river level ; and
the bridge which unites the divided town hasa

somewhat perilous look, seeming slender for
its great height and length ; but since it has
stood the traffic of more prosperous times it is
probably equal to anything likely to be demanded
of it in the present. For Market
Yarburgh has pre-eminently the air of a town
that has ' seen better days.'

There are quaint coaching inns in the
ancient streets ; stately-looking old houses of
brick and stone stand in high-walled gardens
gardens sloping to the sun for the most
part. But indeed everything stands on a
slope in Market Yarburgh. The streets, one
and all, Whether on the east side or on the
west, rise at an angle of about forty-five
degrees ; one and all are narrow ; one and
all are quiet, clean, silent. Women sit on
the doorsteps in the main street, with their
knitting in their hands, their children about
them, just as they would do in the remotest
country village. Fowls peck about among
the worn, rounded flint-stones ; linen is
stretched out across the street to dry. All is
slow, dull, primitive, and prosaic.

The Eectory, a long, low, red-brick building,
without one trace of architectural beauty

natural to it, stood on the hill-top opposite
to the ruined Priory. The gardens about it
were wide and beautiful, the orchards wide
and bountiful. A large fish-pond divided
the two ; rustic arbours, ancient and modern,
were dotted about the grounds everywhere,
with garden chairs and tables under drooping
trees, placed always where you could have
some glimpse of the blue distant beauty of
the landscape, or some sweet, bright picture
of flowers, or trees, or trailing, blossoming
creepers. It was a place to make happiness
itself happier ; to turn unrest into perfect
calm ; to help to soothe any trouble ; uplift
the gloom from any hour of sorrow ; upraise
the mind and heart in almost any moment of
heaviness, or lowness, or inaptness for pleasures
pure and true. To a man like Canon
Godfrey it was a veritable * earthly paradise,'
a place to be grateful for at all times,
to look upon with an especial gratitude in
hours of discouragement or self-depreciation.
And many such hours were known to the
Canon, as they are to all souls that are pure
and true, and live by aspiration.

He was a man of influence — an influence

wliicli had spread beyond his own immediate
neighbourhood. Though he was, comparatively
speaking, a young man, that is considering
the dignity of the position he had arrived
at in the Church, people came to him from
afar with troubles, difficulties, perplexities,
spiritual and temporal, and few went away but
went with lighter heart or clearer brain, though
now and then one went with heavier conscience
than before. Canon Godfrey was a man who
had no tenderness for sin, no sympathy with
continuance in wrong-doing. Expediency was
a word he did not understand.

You had only to see his face once to perceive
the bravery written there. The broad,
unfurrowed brow had yet a stamp of vigorous
resolution ; the mouth, half-hidden by a short
moustache, and the square chin, were visibly
marked by strength and determination. And
yet the face was not hard — the reverse of that.
The kind, blue eyes alone would have redeemed
it from any suspicion of hardness or harshness.
And now and then a singular expression would
pass over the handsome countenance, an indefinable
something that seemed not only to win
your admiration for the man, but your love,

VOL. I. 5

and even your compassion. Had some great
sorrow left its touch there ? or was the passing-claim
upon your pathos prophetic of sorrow to
come ?

As it has been said, it was only now and
then that this sadder expression was upon his
face. His usual look was one of extreme
openness, of gladness and brightness subdued
by the never-failing consciousness that his life
was being lived in the presence of that life's
Giver. In his merriest and most light-hearted
moments — and they were not few — that look
was in the thoughtful blue eyes — the look that
told of recollections.

The consultation between the Canon and his
wife as to whether or no Thorhilda should be
allowed to go over to Garland Grange on a.
mission of remonstrance to her brother Hartas,
was a prolonged one, and included side questions
of some importance.

What, precisely, does Thorda wish to do ?*
the Canon asked. He was sitting by the
broad window-sill of his study, Leaning his
head upon his hand in thoughtfulness. ^ What
is she thinking, or fearing: ?'

She is fearing that one of two things will

happen,' replied Mrs. Godfrey, speaking with
graver face and voice than usual. ' Either
that Hartas Avill marry Barbara Burdas, or
that he will trifle with her — win her affection,
and then leave her to her misery. Thorhilda
hopes to be able to persuade him to break off

the well, let us say the acquaintanceship,

at once.'

Does she think that Hartas really cares for
the girl ?'

She is persuaded that he cares intensely ;
that is the difficulty. All her hope lies in the
idea that Barbara does not yet care greatly
for him. She means to try to influence them
both.'

Canon Godfrey was silent for a while ; but
it was an eloquent silence. His wife knew
that he was thinking deeply.

I am not sure that I should consider
Hartas's marriage to Barbara Burdas such a
great calamity,' he said presently.

My dear Hucjli P exclaimed his wife. Her
astonishment precluded further speech.

'Think of it!' said the Canon gravely.
You would never wish him to remain unmarried
— that would round his chances of

5—2

ruin as few other things would do. And
what kind of wife can you expect him to
win ? I do not forget that I am speaking of
your nephew ; and I speak precisely as I
should of any relation of my own — you know
that, Milicent ; and therefore I can ask you to
think seriously of his utter want of culture,
of his idleness, his rough manner ; and last,
but not least, of his utter pennilessness. He
is Squire Theyn's son, I grant you; but what
woman, in what the world would call his owen
rank of life, would marry him? It may seem
a hard saying, but, so far as I can perceive, it
would not be at all a bad thing that he should
marry a woman of the working class. His
very surroundings would then impel him to
work himself ; he would be happier, stronger,
and he would be a better and more respectable
member of society. . . . But these are extempore
thoughts, my dear Milicent. Therefore
don't let them disturb you.'

You will not mention them to Thorhilda
set awhile ?'

Certainly not. I shall expect her to do all
she can to avert the threatened catastrophe.
There are many other things to be said.

Society is so constituted nowadays that it
would not be at all needful for Hartas to make
such a violent descent in the social scale. I
could name half-a-dozen good girls in the
neighbourhood more suitable than Bab Burdas.
There are the three daughters of Stephens, at
the saw-mills, then there is Annie Prior, and
there are Grace and Agnes Young. No ; he
need not go to the limpet-rocks for a wife.
Still I have, and always have had, a high
opinion of Barbara Burdas. There is more in
her than meets the eye at the first moment,
and beyond all doubt she is attractive, strongly
and strikingly attractive. It is in Hartas' s
favour that he should be drawn to admire a
woman of such force of character.'

Yet you would hardly wish to call her
your niece ?'

The Canon saw that his wife was moved to
a greater extent than she wished to betray.
Her face was flushed, her lips slightly tremulous.
The moment was a weighty one to
both.

I should not,' the Canon replied ; * but I
half suspect myself in making the admission.
I am no Radical, as you know, but a staunch

and lo3^al Conservative, with a firm belief in
the fact that social differences — differences of
wealth, rank, and position — are part of a
divinely ordered plan. It is childish to suppose
otherwise — childish and unscriptural. The
roots of all such differences are innate, and
not to be done away by any merely human
legislation. The foolish people who suppose
that the nationalisation of the land, the dispersion
of capital, the equalization of wealth
would change the order of things permanently,
must be strangely incapable of looking beyond
tomorrow. Put all humanity on one level —
so far as the possession of wealth is concerned
this afternoon, and by this day week we
should find ourselves more widely separated
than ever before. Yet, do not mistake me, do
not suppose that I am satisfied With things as
they are ; do not for one moment imagine
that I can look upon, or think upon, the poor
of the land, the poor at our very gate, and not
be filled with compunction, nay, With remorse.
I have thoi]o;ht much of these things of late ;
I hope to think much more ; and I cannot tell
whither I may be led and guided. All my
prayer is that I may have strength to obey

whatever light may be given me. I feel
strongly that I am on the verge of some
spiritual and human crisis ; and it is thought
of and knowledge of the condition of the poor
of England that have led me to this critical
verge. I cannot speak now of my thought, of
my aim, of my aspiration ; I cannot tell you
now how I yearn to be instrumental, were it
but ever so slightly, in bringing about a better
order of things, a reconcilement of ideas, a
union of hopes, an amelioration of the actual
present condition of " poor humanity." But
you will understand that I cannot look with
quite your horror upon the thing you are
dreading. I have said that I have no desire
to call Barbara Burdas my niece, yet I trust
that I should exhibit no unmanly or unchristian
pride if I were called upon to
acknowledge the relationship. My ideas want
readjusting.'

If yours need readjustment, what must
other people's need ?'

I cannot tell — I cannot tell! And I amin
a certain sense, responsible for so many
people's ideas. The thought is appalling. It
comes to me in the night when I wake, and I

grow hot with the sudden pressure of conscience
; and then the Weight of dread chills
me and I sleep. Is it typical — the night's
programme ? Can it be ? I pray that it
may not ! Come what may. I trust that my
soul will never sleep, nor words of mine lull
any other soul to sleep. . I am always
glad to see that Thorda's conscience is quick
enough with regard to her own people.'

Quick enough ! I fear it is only too quick
replied Mrs. Godfrey with enthusiasm. ' If
you had seen her face yesterday morning
you would not think it needful to harrow her
feelings about such a worthless weed as her
brother Hartas.'

Milicent ! That is not like you !'

I know it is not. Forgive me ! But when
I think of the way in which he has received
your most kindly advice and persuasion — to
say nothing of my own — and when I remember
his lifelong laziness, his insolence, his utter and
wilful ignorance, I feel all that is wicked within
me stirred to the last dregs. . . . And, oh me!
I fear that Rhoda is but very little better.'

You are not alone in that fear, Milicent.
And every now and then there comes across

me a sharp pang — have we, after all, striven
to the uttermost ? One can never know !'

You can never know, Hugh, dear ; because
you are never satisfied with yourself — do what
you may. Think of the manner in which
you strove with Rhoda for weeks together
after the long illness that she had, three years
ago ; and when her very life had been despaired
of! How you talked to her, and besought her,
and prayed with her, and for her, even when
she was answering your every word with a
sneer. Oh, don't speak of your not having
done enough. Surely there is a limit to
human effort !'

^ Ah ! but who shall dare to ^^ it ? Not
any human being. Think of the long-sufferance
one almost expects from God Himself !
Think of His exclaiming, by the mouth of
His prophet Amos, "beholds I am pressed
under you as a cart is pressed that is full of
sheaves /" What human experience can be
named by the side of that ? Oh ! don't let
us talk of having done enough ; rather let us
begin again at the beginning, and strengthen
one's effort as one perceives greater need for
effort. Let Thorda go this afternoon by all

means. Her very calmness, her simple, natural
elevation, may do more than words can do.
Certainly, let her go ; let her have such satisfaction
as may come from the knowledge that
she has done what she could." '

AT Garland GRANGE.

A piteous lot it were to flee from man,
Yet not rejoice in Nature.'

Wordsworth.

The Grange stood in a deep hollow, surrounded
by green folding hills. The sloping fields were
each one bordered by hedges of hawthorn, tall
straggling hedges with crisp emerald foliage,
and scented flowers of creamy white embossing
every spray. There were still cattle in the
pastures, but they were few and ill-favoured.
There were sheep and young lambs, but not of
the breed that had once been the pride and
boast of Garlaff Grange. In the hill-side
paddock at the back of the house, the ancient
hack on which the Squire now and then rode
to market was grazing at his ease. The
garden was shut in by grey stone walls, high

and massive, and of quaint style. Below, a
road wound round to half-a-dozen labourers'
cottages, which stood at the back of the
Grange, half-buried among pear and cherry
and apple trees. Sweet-briar bushes, mingled
with crisp gooseberries, pushed their way
through the dilapidated palings, currants shot
upward and waved about with the airy lightness
of spirit common to unproductive men
and things everywhere. The stables were
near the cottages, the unsavoury refuse heaps
stood in front, and made debatable land
for fowls and pigs. Down there in the
hollow all was so sunny, so warm, so picturesque,
so luxuriant, that a sense of drowsiness
seemed the natural and inevitable influence
of the place. Thorhilda, stepping from the
carriage, seemed certainly as if she stepped
into some Lotus Land wherein it was ' always
afternoon.'

There was an ancient archway in the wall,
filled by a big old oaken door, and then a long
pathway under meeting lilacs and laburnums.
There were some snowy guelder-roses on either
hand, and the rosy mauve of rhododendrons.
The broad steps up to the house were moss-grown,

the bent and broken railing of wrought
iron was half covered by the young green of
climbing rose-trees. A scarlet japonica hung
from the wall between the low stone mullions
windows, needing sorely a little kindly pruning
and training. This air of neglect was upon
everything, upon the panes of the leaded
windows upon the steep red-tiled roof, under
the eaves where long spires of grass waved in
the wooden spouting, stopping the flowing of
the rain. The nests of familiar swallows
clung to the wall, pigeons cooed upon the roof.
All was still, and sad, and sweet, and melancholy.


Though it was the middle of the afternoon
the Squire was there by the fireside of the big
untidy dining-room. His long clay pipe was
in his hand, his tankard of ale before him.
His whole air and appearance was that of a
man defiant of all opinion, careless of all
regard, hopeless of any good, present or
future.

That he had once been a man with some
claim to be considered fine-looking you saw at
a glance, and indeed there was still something;
in the expression of his face, especially when

the deep grey eyes were lifted to yours
suddenly and seriously, that awoke in you a
kind of wonder, mingled with compassion.
It was an expression that told you that,
whatever the present, the past had not been
wholly bounded by poverty, inner or outer,
by mental lowness, by physical carelessness.
His dress was characteristic. The black
velveteen coat was not new, nor had it
been well-preserved, and yet it had an air
of its own, an air that neither dust nor dirt
could quite destroy ; and the corduroy knee-breeches
were not of the kind worn by the
Squire's stable-boy. The finishing touch to
his costume was given by a low, wide-brimmed,
grey felt hat, which he had not
removed when he sat down to his one o'clock
dinner. Though his dead wife's sister, Miss
Averil Chalgrove, and Rhoda, his younger
daughter, had dined at the same table, their
presence had not moved him to any courtesy.
Miss Chalgrove had ceased to expect it long
ao'o, and Rhoda, never having known her
father to be guilty of weakness of that kind,
would have been surprised to discern any
sign of change. She had no wish for such

change. Things would be very well as they
were if only money were not so scarce at
the Grange. Very naturally Rhoda craved
for more life, more movement, more pleasure,
and it may be that the denial of these and
other needs had done more to warp a nature
not naturally good or lovable than any about
her could perceive. No one professed to
understand Squire Theyn's youngest daughter.
Rhoda was there in the room and Hart as.
Miss Chalgrove had gone ' to lie down,' asher
custom was always in the afternoon. How
else could she keep that look of youthfulness
upon which she prided herself so greatly ?
It was haste, and impetuosity, and over-anxiety
that destroyed the looks of nine
women out of ten, so she averred, with an
emphasis unsuited to the theory she was
maintaining. And she added always an
expression of her opinion that Garlaff Grange
was no fitting home for one so sensitive to
roughness, to refinement, to unorthodox
ways of living as herself. It never had been,
but no alternative had been open to her.
These facts she dwelt upon in a manner that
might have done something toward destroying

the harmony of any other household.
At the Grange, unhappily, there was no
harmony to be destroyed.

They had heard the carriage, this strange
trio, and Khoda had gone to the window as
quickly as the movements of her ungainly
figure would permit. K^ she seated herself
again she said in a tone of sullen disappointment
:

Nobbut the Princess !'

No one rose when Thorhilda opened for
herself the door of the wide, grey, slovenly-looking
room. She was smiling pleasantly,
trying to look genial, as she glanced from
one unsmiling, irresponsive face to another ;
saying in her lightest and cheeriest tone :

Good morning, father ! good morning, all
of you ! What a glorious day it is ! Surely
Aunt Averil could not make up her mind to
go and lie down to-day ! I thought that
perhaps she and you would have gone for a
little drive, Rhoda, while I am here
Would you like to go ?'

Nay, — Ah care nowt about it,' said
Rhoda slowly and sullenly, after a somewhat
irritating period of hesitation. She

was not in the habit of speaking broad
Yorkshire except to the Rectory party. By.
that subtle instinct which such people always
seem to possess in perfection, she knew that
her use of the dialect in its coarsest form
gave annoyance.

But Thorhilda was not to be easily annoyed
to-day.

Then I will have the carriage put up, if I
may she said, as pleasantly as if no refusal
of a kind offer had had to be encountered.
And perhaps you will give me a cup of tea
presently. Hartas, will you please tell Woodward
to come round for me at five? — or no, say
half past ; that will give me a little longer
time.'

Hartas rose slowly, and went out, his pipe
still in his mouth, his hands in his pockets ; a
look of strange indocile determination upon
his unformed features.

Forewarned's forearmed !' he said to himself
half-audibly as he went down under the
white and purple lilac trees to the front gate
to give the message. The two men on the
box of the carriage listened, touched their
hats respectfully, and turned away, the older

VOL. I. 6

man half-sorry for Miss Theyn, whom he had
known and liked greatly from her earliest
childhood. The younger man was somewhat
scornful under his outer respectfulness, and
contemptuous of Miss Theyn's brother.

Hartas was less imperceptible, less indifferent
than he appeared to be ; and his perception
did not tend to modify the feeling with which
he turned to meet his elder sister, who was
coming down the steps, smiling kindly, yet
half-sadly, and looking into his face with a
beseeching, winning look that would have won
any other man s favour in spite of himself.

Let us go into the orchard, Hartas,' she
said, making a movement as if she would put
her hand within his arm, but this he evaded
skilfully. It was much that he consented to
follow her through the narrow door that was
all overhung with white blossom and green
waving sprays. He was in no mood to bear
expostulation.

Might as well have it over though,' he said
to himself. ' An' the sooner the better. But
they muster think, none of 'em, 'at they're
going' to come between me an' Barbara Burdas.'

'love's nobility

Man was made of social earth,
Child and brother from his birth,
Fettered by the lightest cord
Of blood thro' veins of kindness poured.
Next his heart the fireside band
Of mother, father, children stand ;
Names from awful childhood heard,
Throbs of a wild religion stirred.'

Emerson.

Curiously enough, it was Hartas who opened
the conversation, rather to Thorhilda's relief.
It was not so easy to her to go straight to the
heart of this delicate matter as it had appeared
to be beforehand ; and, in the moment of
silence that followed their entrance into the
orchard, it seemed to Miss Theyn that she had
never before so clearly recognised the strangeness
that was between her brother and herself,
the absence of all fraternal feeling on his

6—2

part, the presence of non-sisterly diffidence
and trepidation on her own. But, as was
usual with her in such crises, she made a
strong mental effort to regain her natural standpoint
; and the effort was successful. She
listened quite calmly to Hartas's opening
speech.

Time's not o' much wally to me he began,
taking his pipe from his mouth with evident
reluctance. ' Therefore I can't say 'at I don't
want to waste it. An' as for words, well, I've
no special talent i' that direction ; as no doubt
you've found out afore to-day. Still, I don't
want to spend neither words nor time upon
the subject you've come here to talk about.
It won't do no good, you see, not the least.
If Barbara Burdas would but listen to me, an'
the law o' the land allowed, I'd marry her tonight.
I'd. not wait for tomorrow.'

Real earnestness is always impressive, and
is as the * heat which sets our human atoms
spinning' in the direction the one in earnest
would have us travel. The fervour of a true
affection is seldom to be altogether ignored,
even by the coldest.

How long have you cared for her so much '?'

Miss Tlieyn asked in a gentle and sympathetic
way. And her very voice, the affectionate
unexpected kindness of it, touched Hartas as
no remonstrance could have done. All unaware
he was already betrayed.

How long ? All my life, or so it seems
to me now,' he replied, * or mebbe I'd better
say, all her life. Why, it only seems like
yesterday 'at she was a little hard-working
thing of twelve or fourteen ; bright, an'
bonny, an' full o' mischief, yet as disdainful
as the highest lady o' the land. An' then
somehow, all at once it seemed, she came to be
eighteen ; and '

Eighteen !' interposed Thorhilda in amazement.
' I should have said she was at least
eight-and-twenty !'

She looks more like that,' Hartas admitted
somewhat sadly. * But think of the life she's
lived for the last six years ! Mebbe you don't
know nought about it; an' couldn't understand
if you did ; but / know. I've watched her all
along when she little thought of it ; an' many
a time the sight's been bad snuff to bear, I can
tell you.'

What made you think of her first ?' 

asked, still speaking in a tone that told
of more than mere kindly interest.

'First of all! That I can hardly say
Hartas replied with softened voice, and a
decided increase of confidences in his
manner. ' I remember when she was a little
thing. (I'm ten years older than she is — ten
all but three months.) An' I always noticed
her when I was down at the Bight. She was
so different from the rest somehow, so superior,
an yet so winning' ; an' they all seemed to
know it ; an' to give in when she was by. . . .
An' then that awful storm came ; an' I was
down on the cliff-top that morning'. Oh ! I'll
never forget it !'

Was that the day her father was drowned ?'

Her father and her mother. . . . But you
can't have forgot ! Why the whole land rang
wi' the stories o' that gale for weeks after !'

There have been so many gales,' replied
Thorhilda deprecatingly. 'And I was younger
then ; and perhaps less sympathising. But I
do remember something of the loss of the
North Star. , . . Wasn't that the name of the
boat that suffered here V

It was the name o' one of the boats 'at

was wrecked in Ulvstan Bight that morning',
but it was not the name o' the one 'at belonged
mostly to Ephraim Burdas. She was called
the Seamen. An' a fine boat she was, for
her size. I remember her well. Old Ephraim
had only pointed her out to me about a week
before, telling me how she was the fulfilment
of all his hopes, the result of all his long life's
toil. She'd cost him over four hundred pounds
altogether ; an' she was every plank his own
save one-eighth part, the single share that Jim
Tyas had bought. An' 'twas old Ephraim 'at
sailed her; the others never seemed right
when the old man wasn't at the helm. An'
he'd taken his usual place that night ; never
dreaming' o' nought happening' out 0' the common.
All 'at ever he remembered after was
'at his son, Bab's father, had seemed out o'
spirits ; an' had never spoken to nobody after
they went out 0' the Bight till the storm burst
upon 'em all of a sudden. 'Twas him 'at first
saw it coming', in fact. But you should hear
old Ephraim tell the tale.'

I would rather hear it from you ; only
make it brief; and not too sad. . . . How
many were there in the boat altogether V

Only four. As I said, the old man was
in the stern ; an they'd shot the lines some
nine or ten miles off the land. Then they'd
sat down to rest for awhile ; an' to pass the
darkest time o' the night. 'Twas a fair sort
o' morning ; fine, an' light, an' calm ; but
about four o'clock, as old Ephraim were
leaning' again the side o' the boat, his head
upon his hand, half asleep, all of a sudden he
heard his son shouting' :

^^ By heaven there s a storm upon us!
Yonder's a ship flying' afore the gale, wi' her
sails all torn to rao^s an' ribbons !"

o

The old man couldn't believe it ; but he
jumped up, an' looked out seaward ; an' sure
snuff, 'twas as young Ephraim had said. There
wasn't a second to be lost. They tried to
head the boat for the nearest land — it happened
to be Yarva Wake ; but long afore they could
reach it the gale broke up the sea ; an' Jim
Tyas wasn't at all for landing' there. Jim was
a chap 'at was alius desperate feared in a
storm, so old Ephraim told me ; an' he said
he'd never seen the man so feared as he was
that morning' when the hurricane was fairly
upon 'em. They down with the sail afore

they touched the sea-break ; but there seemed
no chance for 'em ; an' afore they'd been
tossing upon the edge o' the breakers many
minutes a great wave struck the boat, an
knocked the side completely out of her. It
appeared to be all over then. Jim cried out,
'lord, ha' mercy iqDon my ivied soul this
day /" an' as old Ephraim said, it almost
seemed as if Providence had heard him, for
the strangest thing happened 'at ever the old
man had seen in all his long life. The sea
broke away right in front of them in the
curiousest manner, an' stood up like walls on
either hand ; an' they were driven through
between as fast as they could go. But the
boat was breaking' to bits under 'em every
minute ; an' at last they were all four tossing'
i' that awful sea.

They could all of 'em swim, better or
worse, an' they all reached the rocks, but
'twere in a bad place. The cliff's like a
house-end just there ; an' though a dozen or
more people had gathered on the top of it,
they'd neither rope nor ladder ; an' the worst
of it was young Ephraim's wife was there,
Bab's mother, an' she'd three little children

clinging' to her crown : an' a four weeks old
baby at her breast; an' she weren't well —
hadn't never been since the child was born.
An' when she saw the boat's crew just below,
clinging' to one another on the narrow ledge
under the cliff, the straight wall of rock
behind em', an' the rising tide beating upon
'em more furiously every moment, 'twere
more than she could bear. Breaking' away
fra the little ones all of a sudden, she sprang
from the top o' the rock wi' her new-born
baby in her arms ; an' almost as she struck
the water her husband dashed in again after
her ; an' folks has told me since 'at it was
all they could do to keep Bab from making'
a fourth. Nobody could help the three 'at
was struggling' there. They went down,
within half-a-dozen yards o' dry land. An
the curiousest part of it all was that little
Ailsie washed up, not only alive, but seeming
none so much the worse. I helped to
catch hold of her, and to give her to Bab.
An' that's why Bab cares for her so much,
an' can hardly bear to let the little thing out
of her sight. . . . Bab was only twelve years
old when it all happened ; but if she'd been

twice twelve she couldn't have been a better
mother to the three small lads an' the little
girl. But it's no use talking'. Such as you
can never see the good in such a woman as
Barbara Burdas. She can't play the piano.
I doubt much whether she's ever either
heard one, or seen one. An' pickin' fathers
for the fishermen of Ulvstan Bight isn't
quite such a refined way o' spending' time as
making* wax-flowers, or crochy antimacassars.
No ; Bab isn't refined wi' what you an' most
others such as you would call refinement —
not what you'd call a " lady." But no lady
'at I've ever seen, or ever can see, would lift
me out 0' the mire as Barbara Burdas could
do, if she cared to think about me at all ; an'
there isn't another woman in the world, 'at I
know of, 'at understands what unselfishness
means as she understands it ; not another
nowhere 'at lives a life so totally self-sacrificing'.
An' the best of it is she doesn't
never dream 'at she's coin' aught but what
she's bound to do. You couldn't open her
eyes, if you tried, to the meaning' o' self an*
self-interest. . . . But I said I didn't
want to waste no time on this subject, an'

here I am, wasting' a whole quarter of an
hour.'

Don't regret it,' Thorhilda replied, using
the brevity that comes of over-fulness of new
thought. Harass vividly told story, the
graphic touches of it, the intense reality, had
impressed his sister greatly. And that in
communicating to her his knowledge of Barbara
Burdas and her life he should at the same time
have betrayed much that was new, and not
unfavourable, of himself, was a fact demanding
consideration.

I am glad to hear all this from you, Hartas,'
she continued. ' I am pleased that you should
talk to me about Barbara Burdas.'

'An' you'll be glad if I'll listen to what
you've got to say in return,' the young man
broke in with some impetuosity. ' But remember
what I said at the beginning. I
mean to make her my wife if she will but
consent — consent on any terms.'

And if she will not ?'

If she won't, I don't care what becomes of
me.'

I don't want to preach to you, Hartas,'
Thorhilda replied with some natural diffidence,

but is that altogether a manly mood in which
to meet one of the greatest crises that can
happen in your lifetime ?'

'Manly? Mebbe not. But I reckon 'at
you don't know much o' what such a disappointment
'ud mean to me — if it came to
that. An' you an' all your set 'ud be rejoicing',
as if something good had happened.'

Can you put yourself in our place for a
moment — in my place, for instance "?' 
asked with gentle firmness. ' Can you
even try to imagine what such a marriage
would be to me, what it would mean to my
life, where you, my only brother, to marry a —
a bait-gatherer ?

It needn't mean no more to you than the
wind that blows !' Hartas replied, with his
rough, ready emphasis. ' Why should you
think it would ? Why should we ever come
near you ? When have I ever come in your
way, except when I couldn't help it ? When
have I ever asked a favour of you ? When
have I ever expected so much as a kind word
from you, or a helpful one, when I was particularly
needing it ? What have I ever
asked, or requested of you at all, save 'at you

should go your way an' leave me to go
mine X

You have requested nothing — that is true
enough Thorhilda replied, involuntarily subduing
her voice to the softest and gentlest
contrast possible. ' But, remember, the difference
between us was never created by me, nor
by anyone at the Eectory. You must admit
that my aunt and uncle have done what
they could. And you must also admit that,
though you have repulsed them time aftertime,
they have never ceased to make fresh
advances. Be generous, at least in word ; as
they have been in deed. . . . But, pardon me,
I am saying more than I meant to say. I do
not want to irritate you— anything but that.
But I felt constrained to say that all the coldness
and strangeness has been your doing, not
mine — not ours. It has pained me ceaselessly
and infinitely. It has hurt me, and kept me
from my sleep ; it has darkened many a day ;
poisoned many a pleasure. . . . Hartas — do
you think that I have no affection for you ?'

It was a singular scene. That a woman of
Miss Theyn's stateliness and loveliness, of her
extreme refinement, should stand there pleading

for some sign of recognition of the tie that
was between herself and the man who seemed
as the veriest clod by her side, was surely a
touching and pathetic thing. Was Hartas
feeling it to be strange % Was he moved in
any way ? — impelled to any warmth of responsiveness
that he yet had no art or intellect
to express %

It's a bad moment to speak o' such a thing
now,' he said, having less of his natural harshness
and brusqueness of manner than before.
I don't doubt but that you may feel more
like a sister to me than I ever dreamed you
did ; an' at another time I might ha' been
glad of it. But, as I said, I know what's
brought you here this afternoon ; an' I've
only one answer to all you have said, or can
say. That answer you've had. I won't anger
you wi' say in' it again.'

Thorhilda was silent for awhile. One thing
she had to congratulate herself upon — nay,
two moved her to a momentary content. She
had not irritated her brother ; and she had a
hopeful feeling of having opened a way that
might some day lead to his heart.

I hope your time has not been quite

wasted, Hart as she replied. ' I should certainly
not consider that it has been if we
might begin to realize, but ever so faintly,
that we each owe something to the other —
some help, some sympathy, some affection, or,
at least, some friendliness of feeling. . . . Has
it ever occurred to you that 1 could feel
lonely ? — that / have no brother or sister,
except in name T

Hartas Theyn's face was lifted in most
earnest surprise.

You lonely !' he exclaimed. * No ; when
I've thought about you at all I've thought
that if ever anybody in this world did have
all they wanted it was you.'

Then, ah, how you have been mistaken !'
Thorhilda replied with some emphasis. ' Don't
imagine that I complain. I am much too
conscious of the good that is mine to do that ;
but my life has not been perfect in its happiness
— how should it ? You little dream of
what I have felt in other people's houses —
homes where there may have been a dozen, or
half-a-dozen brothers and sisters, all kind, all
loving, all happy ! Ah ! how often it has
pained me to see it all — to see it from outside.

as a wanderer may sit on a doorstep on a
winter's night and see the warmth and light
within, which he may not feel or share ! I am
not blaming you — I am blaming no one. T
am merely telling you how it has been with
me — how it is yet. I want you to understand
how it is, even now.'

I don't see that I can held matters much,'
Hartas replied, not sullenly or indifferently,
but with the perplexed absence of one absorbed
in thought.

I have thought that you might — some
day,' Thorhilda said. ' I have so often
thought of your marriage, so often dreamed of
your wife as one who would be my sister, who
would draw us together, who would make me
feel that I was your sister in reality. And I
have seen her in my mind many a time, a
good, loving, understanding woman, with —
pardon me for saying it — culture enough to
be a friend to me, and love enough to bear
with all shortcomings in you. . . . And now,
now my dream is ended. . . . What wonder
that I should plead with you, entreat you, at
least, to consider, to do nothing in haste !'
Perhaps it was fortunate that at that
VOL. I. 7

moment Rhoda came up under the white
orchard trees. Her appearance might have
been amusing to anyone in a mood to be
amused lightly ; but to Thorhilda all was
distressing, from the heavy rolling gait to the
untidy tweed dress, unfastened at the throat,
yet displaying no finishing touch in the shape
of lace or linen collar. Her pretty golden
hair was huddled into a shapeless coil at the
back of her head ; there was a sullen expression
about the large mouth, and in the
greenish hazel eyes. Her voice was in keeping,
being gruff, indistinct, unpleasant.

If ya want that tea, it's ready,' she said,
stopping short of her elder sister and brother
by some yards.

Then she turned and rolled back again.
Thorhilda sighed and followed her. The visit
was over, and it had availed nothing.

Nothing at all !' she said to herself
sadly.

Nothing, nothing at all !' she repeated to
the Canon, who was walking thoughtfully up
and down under the veranda at the Rectory
when she returned, waiting to console her, or
to rejoice with her, as occasion might require.

And now, as always, his consolation was
sufficiently effective.

Be patient, Thorda, dear, and don't despair,'
he said, holding her hand in his warm,
fatherly grasp. ' The most far-seeing of us
can't see the length of the next hour, or the
full meaning of this. . . . And now go and
dress quickly and prettily ; there are some of
your favourite pale yellow pansies to wear. The
Meredithss will be here in twenty minutes.'

7—2

'IX ALL TIME OF Ole, WEALTH.'

Dear friend— If I were sure of thee, sure of thy capacity,
sure to match my mood with thine, I should never again

think of trifles in relation to thy comings and goings

Thou art to me a delicious torment. Thine ever, or never.'

Emerson.

The dinner-party at the Eectory was quite a
small one. Mrs. Meredith, handsome, correct,
more affable than usual, sat at Canon Godfrey's
right hand. Her son Percival was next to
Miss Theyn. Gertrude Douglas, Thorhilda's
friend, had been taken in to dinner by the
Eev. Marcus Egerton, the one curate of
Market Yarburgh.

Gossip had been busy about the four last-mentioned
names for some time ; but, as
usual, the suggestions and hints that had
been passed about were at least premature.
Miss Theyn, as we have seen, was Ijy no

means sure even of her own wish and will,
and Miss Douglas was not a likely woman to
marry a poor curate. She was older than
Thorhilda, taller, stronger, and perhaps equally
beautiful in the eyes of some, though in quite
a different way, and she was certainly more
ambitious. Being the daughter of a not too
successful country surgeon, she had a very
natural dread of small means.

I must marry,' she had said openly to
Thorhilda, ' and I must marry a rich man. I
have had enough of poverty !'

But you would not marry anyone merely
because he was rich ?' Thorhilda had asked in
unfeigned surprise.

I fear I should,' Gertrude made answer,
speaking half-sadly and tentatively. She had
no wish to shock Miss Theyn, though often
she came nearer to doing so than she dreamed.
I fear I should,' she had replied. ' Market
Yarburgh is not a place to afford one many
chances. I am nearly thirty, and I look older
than I am. . . . But don't let us talk of it at
present, dear. Let us speak of your chances
rather than of mine. There is not another
Percival Meredith in the neighbourhood.'

Miss Douglas had perceived without being
able quite to comprehend Miss Theyn's flush
of mingled annoyance and indignation. Not
even a friend so intimate as Gertrude Douglas
might speak of a matter so delicate, so immature,
without offending her sense of good
taste.

My chances !' she exclaimed. ' If you
care for me, Gertrude, if you care for my
friendship in the least, you will hardly speak
so again to me. Indeed, indeed, I thought
you had known me better than to speak like
that !'

This had happened some time before. Gertrude
had laughed most musically, most good-naturedly,
and had kissed away Thorhilda's
offended dignity at once. There was a peculiar
fascination about Miss Douglas; she never
took offence, and she was cleverer than 
in many ways; she had wider knowledge
of the world, keener insight into certain sides
of human nature ; her manner was full of
charm, and her temperament most cheerful
and amiable. If these good qualities had
some alloy, Thorhilda was not one to dwell
upon the fact. Gertrude Douglas was her

friend, and perfect loyalty requires that even
thought itself should be silent now and
then.

Gertrude came often to the Eectory. She
appreciated the pleasant little dinner-parties ;
not only the varied menu, the delicate cookery,
the careful service, but also the beautiful silver,
the lovely flowers that decorated the table and
the rooms in such profusion, the perfect lighten
gf, the general air of daintiness and finish
that was upon everything. Her own narrow
home was sadly apt to seem narrower after a
few days in the wider rooms in the house on
the hill-top ; the very carpets seemed dingier
and poorer, the chairs harder, the sofas more
uncomfortable ; the meals were hardly worth
sitting; down to. As a matter of course she
kept silence as to her appreciation ; she had too
much tact to speak of such matters, except
now and then to Thorhilda alone. For social
life she had enough of other and brighter
topics, and to-night, as usual, she gave sufficient
rein to her conversational powers without
seeming to display them in any undue manner.
No awkward pauses might happen at any table
to which Miss Douglas had been invited.

After dinner, while the two elder ladies sat
chatting by the fire in the drawing-room,
Thorhilda and Gertrude stood near the window
in the dim twilight, the hour' that so often
attunes two waiting souls to helpful intercourse
; we owe more, spiritually, than we
acknowledge, to the physical alternation of
night and day.

The curtains by that especial west window
had been left undrawn, as usual, by Thorhilda's
wish. Outside the stars were burning in a
clear, dark sky ; a young moon was dropping
over the towers of the ruin on the opposite
hill-top ; beyond the moon there was a faint,
white mist overspreading the distance ; the
whole scene was touched by that mystery of
mingled light and darkness which makes so
much of the poetry of this most poetic world.
And yet the poetry is often tinged with
sadness ; the sadness of all suggested beauty.
It is in music of almost every kind ; it is not
absent from any good picture ; but it is in the
natural world that one feels its charm most
strongly and strangely. The first morning
hour when the light as it were breathes upon
the east, the last evening hour, when it seems

to sigh itself gently and sadly away, the calm,
starless moonlight, the soft, wondrous glowing
of the winter starlight over the wide expanse
of moor or of sea ; all these in their tender
disclosures, their mystic reservations, move the
soul to ' strange yearnings after we know not
what, and awful impressions from we know not
whence.' The wise man is he who seeks these
finer influences frequently, and having found
them, acknowledges with gratitude that it is
good to be there.'

The two younger women were still standing
silently, but Miss Douglas broke the silence so
soon as she felt it.

Thorda, dear, you are not happy to-night !'
she said in her round, full, musical voice, a
voice difficult to soften at any time.

Thorhilda smiled, and lifted her face to her
friend.

It is odd that you should make that
remark,' she replied, in tones that contrasted
perfectly with those of Gertrude Douglas.
All day, nay, for quite two days now, I have
found myself thinking of happiness at every
spare moment, and this by no deliberate wish
or will of my own. Is it not strange ?'

Very. . . . But surely you are happy
enough ? What happiness you haven't yet is
coming toward you as fast as it can come. No,
don't turn your face away, dear, I won't say
another word. I couldn't help sitting opposite
to you at dinner, you know ; neither could I
help seeing Mr. Meredith's face, or hearing his
voice. There — I've done !'

Of that I'm glad. . . . But, Gertrude, you
mistake me altogether. It was not only of my
own happiness I was thinking, but of that of
other people — of the whole human race in fact.
We all want to be happy ; we are, many of us,
striving for it ; yet surely we none of us know"
very exactly what happiness is !'

While Gertrude was laughing, a long, low,
pleasant laugh, the Canon and the two younger
men came in, and involuntarily began to smile
for very sympathy with the musical sound that
was coming from the window.

Just at the right moment 1' cried Miss
Douglas. ' Do come here, all of you, and tellus
what happiness is ! Here is Thorhilda
miserable because she can't make out what
happiness consists of. Isn't it an idea V

Miss Douglas had sauntered out from the

recess by the window as she spoke, coming
forth with that half-imperious air of conscious
fascination that became her so welL And in
the background of her thought, of which she
was also conscious, was a curious query as to
whether in the sight of — say Percival Meredith,
for instance — she or Thorhilda made the most
attractive picture.

They were nearly alike in height, in a certain
cultured air of self-possession, but there,
suddenly, all possibility of comparison ended.
Their very dress told something of the radical
difference of their natures. Miss Douglas's
costume of amber satin and black lace, with a
profusion of yellow roses, grown under the
Eectory glass, was sufficiently aesthetic even
for the taste of Mr. Meredith, but it did not
charm him as did the soft heliotrope-tinted
crape that Thorhilda was wearing, with only a
few pale primrose-coloured pansies and some
maidenhair by way of ornament.

He felt a little proud of his superior taste.
But in justice to him let it be said that it was
not only the outer appearance of the woman
he loved that attracted him ; this by no means.
He was sufficiently cultured to feel the drawing

of the finer nature, the more finished delicacy.
As to whether or not he might find himself in
perfect agreement with a deeper soul or more
aspiring spirit, was not a question likely to
trouble him as yet. So far no doubt of this
kind had beset him.

CONCERNING HAPPINESS.

He could afford to suffer
With those whom he saw suffer. Hence it came
That in our best experience he was rich,
And in the wisdom of our daily life.'

Wordsworth.

Happiness !' Percival Meredith ejaculated
softly, as he drew away toward the window,
turning with a self-possessed air, as of invitation,
to Thorhilda. Then lower still and more
emphatically he said, ' I know what would
make my happiness !'

But for Miss Douglas it is possible that
Thorhilda's eyes had yet been so far closed as
to permit of her replying to this remark as it
was intended to be replied to, with some
soft nothing ' that would provide an opening
for a stronger and less dubious declaration.
As it was, the nothing could not be uttered at

that moment. Instead, Miss Theyn said
aloud :

Uncle Hugh, what is your idea of happiness
? You are the happiest man I know.'

A touch of gravity came over the Canon's
face, into the blue, kindly eyes ; the smile faded
from about the mouth.

I am happy,' he said, ' and I am glad to
acknowledge it ; but it is not an unshaded
happiness. How should it be, when I fear
that — taking the world about us generally —
not one person in a hundred could say the
same thing ! . As to defining happiness —
who could give any true and generally acceptable
definition of the word ? It is probable
that to each human being it means some
totally different thing. Not one of us could
legislate for another so far as merely human
happiness is concerned.'

I should say the best definition is " having
all one wants," ' Gertrude Douglas replied with
her usual readiness.

That seems adequate,' said the Canon.
And yet if by that you mean the gratification
of all material desires, I can only reply that I
know men who have not a single desire unfulfilled,

but who are yet far enough from happiness.
On the other hand, I know people,
ground down under what men term the heel
of Fate, poor, lonely, bereaved, neglected, but
yet as bright, as cheerful, as hopeful as any
human being need wish to be.'

Ah, if they have hope?' said Mr. Egerton,
in his usual suggestive way.

You think that is the great secret T the
Canon asked. ' And you, Mr. Meredith —
where does your opinion lie ?'

Percival smiled languidly.

'Upon my word, I don't know that I've
ever thought of it, either one way or another,'
he said. * Just now, when Miss Douglas was
speaking, I felt decidedly inclined to agree
with her. But I should fancy there's a good
deal to be said for Egerton's idea. Why not
combine the two — have everything you want,
and something to hope for besides? Then,
surely, you would touch something like real
felicity 1'

Canon Godfrey looked at his neighbour
with something that was almost curiosity,
and for a few seconds he made no reply.
His best and most spiritual thoughts on this

topic seemed hardly suited to the present
environment.

It is j)i'obable/ he said at last, ' that a
true answer to the question asked in the
beginning would draw upon the deepest
resources of the nature of each one of us,
and it would be no bad theme for an hour's
quiet meditation to try to find an answer.
The queries need only be three : I. Am I
happy? 11. If not, then ivy ? III. What
can I do to bring happiness somewhat
nearer '?'

Let us do it now ! and each of us write
down our answer !' exclaimed Miss Douglas
in her sparkling, ready way.

But Thorhilda protested instantly.

Oh no, no /' she cried. ' I could not do
that, not now, I could not make a game of
it, 'pouT passer le temps / . . . Forgive me,
Gertrude ; but I could not. I could not tonight.'


Oh, dear ; how terribly in earnest we are !'
exclaimed Miss Douglas smiling — nay, laughing
quite sweetly. ' One never expects to have
to take things au series after dinner !'

I fear we are some of us talking great

nonsense !' interposed practical little Mrs.
Meredith. She was being ignored in a way
she was not accustomed to. The very set of
her imposing cap upon her most abundant and
artistic white hair told you that she was not a
person to be overlooked. She was as full of
life, of vigour, as she had always been, and
the snow-white hair was as surprising as it
was picturesque. In spite of it, she did not
look more than forty, though her age was
fifty-five ; and that her only son should
already be giving himself some of the airs of
a middle-aged man was not pleasing to her.
The surest way for a stranger to reach her
heart was to make some allusion to ' her
brother.' ' I fear we are talking nonsense,'
she repeated. ' For my part, I think happiness
is very much a matter of mental habit.
George Eliot admits something like that.
Does she not say somewhere that *' unhappiness
may become a habit of mind"? And
doubtless such habits are very hard to break.'

There is truth in that,' replied the Canon.
But surely, before sorrow can become so
habitual as to be more congenial than joy, any
human being must have bent to discipline both

VOL. I. 8

long and sore, and, in such cases, which of us,
not having sounded the same depths, shall
dare to judge V

Oh, but we always do judge one another,'
the little woman broke in with something
that seemed more like hardness than flippancy
in her tone. ' We can't help it ; and when
wee see people whose troubles are over, but
who yet ivont forget them, you know we
can't help thinking they want a little more
trouble to bring them to their senses
Oh, don't pretend, Canon Godfrey, you know
you agree with me !'

I certainly won't pretend,' replied the
Canon, smiling gravely, and putting away
into the background of his mind some stern
experiences of which he knew only too much.
No, I won't pretend ; instead, I will add to
what you have urged. I have a firm belief
that a sense of happiness is a thing to be cultivated,
a sense of daily and hourly gratitude
for our human well-being, let the drawbacks
be what they may. I fear that there are people
in whom this sense is so imperfectly developed
that it can hardly be said to exist at all !
. . Don't you think that is true, Egerton V

Only too true !' responded Mr. Egerton
with his usual quick appreciation, giving you
an impression of a human mind all alight
because of the warmth of heart not hidden
within. ' Indeed, I have often fancied that
we might have a new Professor — a Professor
of the Art of Happiness — a man with psychological
knowledge enough to do for our
emotional half what the physiologist is endeavouring
to do for our bodies ; a man who
would go on his daily rounds to this house,
or to that, as a doctor does ; finding out this
woman's reason for habitual sadness, the cause
of that man's gloomy despair ; who would
analyse our feelings for us, put them into
definite shape, and then put before us the
unphilosophical view we were taking so
strongly and clearly as to change the whole
mental atmosphere. It might be done,
surely 1'

It was easy to see that Mr. Egerton had
only meant to be taken half-seriously. But
the Canon, listening, had passed on into
earnest.

Are we not trying to do it — some of us ?'
he asked. 'Trying to do just that — to

8—2

minister to minds diseased wherever we may
find them ? It is not easy ; how should it be 1
AVe have high authority for believing that
each heart alone knows its own bitterness,
that no other heart can know it, or share it,
Think of Keble, too :

" Not even the tenderest heart, and next our own,
Knows half the reasons why we smile or sigh."

Of course it doesn't ; how should it ? And
the n^ost closely-surrounded heart is lonelier
than we know. How, then, must it be with
those who, admittedly, have not a single soul
to whom they can unburden themselves for
an hour? It is cases like these one is glad
to find out, to help, not heeding the difficulties.
If one may not create happiness, one
may, at least now and then, alleviate unhappiness.
And that is not a little ; no, it is
certainly not a little in the sight of Him who
said, 'inasmuch as ye did it unto one of the
least of these, ye did it unto Me'' '

Won't you give us a sermon on happiness
some Sunday, Uncle Hugh V Thorhilda asked
gravely.

Certainly I will, or else a lecture in the
schoolroom some Wednesday evening. The

latter will be better ; even on your own showing,
my dear I It is not so long since you
admitted that sermons were difficult things to
listen to.'

So they are to me /' Miss Theyn admitted,
preparatory to asking yet another leading
question on the topic just begun. But before
the question could be put into suitable and
sufficiently earnest words, Gertrude Douglas
had changed the subject altogether. It was a
way she had. For all her tact she knew little
of the decaying art of conversation.

And for Percival Meredith, too, the evening
was spoiled, that is, so far as his one intention
was concerned. It yet remained to him to ask
formally for an interview on the morrow, and
though he thought seriously on this, he put
the idea away rather impatiently at last. It
seemed to belong to a past day ; and Percival
was anxious, beyond even his natural years,
to keep pace with the present. The fact that
he was so much older than Miss Theyn had
more than its due weight with him. The
difference would have been as nothing to a man
who had not, in some way, passed the ' slow
feet ' of the years.

And yet his mood that night was by no
means a sad one. He sat alone in his smoking
room for some time, half wishing that he had
asked Mr. Egerton to come over to Ormston
for a few days, and half glad that he had
not.

Still,' he said to himself, ' when one is ina
state of perplexity, or suspense, solitude is
seldom quite welcome.' Then he chose for
himself a good cigar, and poked the fire into
a blaze, and put up the Berlin slippers which
his mother had worked with such extreme
care to be thoroughly toasted. ' And yet,
why should I be perplexed V he said to himself
when these arrangements for his personal
comfort had been made to his satisfaction.
I know what I wish to do, and what I mean
to do ; then why perplexity ? . . . And as
for suspense ?' . . . and here Mr. Meredith
took his cigar from between his lips and
smiled satirically. ' Suspense ! with a lady
so dainty and so shy, waiting in her utmost
daintiness and shyness for one to throw the
handkerchief. Well, it is certainly not — not
altogether unpleasant ! One might — at
Market Yarburgh — bide one's time, and make

a successful throw after all ! That is one
advantage of a country place. . . . And there
are others — several others ! . At the
present moment I am in love with Ormston
Magna.'

m THE VILLAGE STREET.

Can another be so blessed, and we so pure, that we can
offer him tenderness ? When a man becomes dear to me I
have touched the goal of fortune.' — Emerson.

They were roses, lovely fresh roses that filled
Miss Theyn's hands. She was alone in the
carriage as it drove down one of the narrow
streets of Ulvstan — streets where greengrocers
lived, and pastry-cooks, and vendors of bathing
garments. Thorhilda had no purchases to
make, and the roses were intended for the
matron of the small cottage hospital which
the Canon had done so much towards instituting,
and now maintained almost solely by his
own generosity. But the roses never reached
Mrs. Nesbitt. A tall figure, bearing a basket
covered with seaweed, suddenly turned the
corner of the street — a blue worsted-clad

figure with no bonnet to hide the coils of her
beautiful chestnut hair, no hat to shade the
finely-cut features upon which the cast of
thought was already marked so plainly. Miss
Theyn saw the girl, recognised her, and stopped
the carriage instantly. A moment's reflection
might perhaps have changed her feeling, but
that moment was not possible. Thorhilda
was acting and speaking out of her first
impulse.

Barbara,' she cried, holding out the big
bouquet of lovely roses, red, creamy-white,
deep crimson, and palest blush. * Barbara I
will you have these '? They are quite fresh.
And bow is your grandfather ? My uncle
fancied he was not looking quite so well as
usual at church on Sunday morning.'

The tide of rich colour that was pouring-over
Bab's face, under her hair, down her
neck, attested the confusion to which she was
moved by the suddenness of the encounter ;
but no muscle of her beautiful, regular features
was tortured to express her emotion.
The girl lifted her gray blue eyes — there was
no sauciness in them now, no defiance ; there
was nothing but a deep and deferential admiration

— nay, it was more, afFection, devotion,
as Miss Theyn saw. And the girl stood like
a statue for calmness and for dignity, taking
the bouquet — such a one as she had never
seen before — and, apart from the fact that
Miss Theyn had given it to her, the roses
were in themselves as precious as any pearls
or diamonds Bab's limited experience enabled
her to imagine. The blushes continued to
grow upon the fine face, but Bab was not
speechless.

You mean them for me V she said, using a
soft, grave surprise that was as touching as it
was welcome. Her eyes were drooping over
the flowers, her lips a little tremulous with
the weight of pleasure.

How will I thank you. Miss Theyn V she
added. ' How will I ever thank you ? An'
there's nothing I can do, nothing !'

You hardly need to thank me, not for a
few flowers,' Miss Theyn replied ; and it was
easy to see that she was receiving almost as
much pleasure as she was giving. ' Do you
care for them so much ? I am glad of that.
I can bring you some often, almost every time
we come into Ulvstan.'

Oh, don't think of that, Miss Theyn,' Bale
replied, her independence taking quick alarm
at the idea of a pleasure so spontaneous being
converted into a benefit * to be continued.'
Don't think of that she said ; ' I'll never
forget as you've given me these.'

Thorhilda was quick to understand.

Very well !' she said, with one of her usual
winning smiles. ' I think I know what you
feel, and I will respect it. All the same, I
may come and see you, I hope ? I have been
promising myself that pleasure.'

The blush on Barbara's face deepened ; and
since the words she could have said — words of
gratitude for even the hope of some crumbs
of affection — since these might not be spoken,
she had few others, and these were not
adequate.

I'd like to see you,' she said, lifting her
truthful eyes to Miss Theyn's face ; ' I'd like
to see you often — every day of my life if it
might be. But '

Bab hesitated here, and looked somewhat
embarrassed ; and while she was silent a probable
cause for her sudden hesitation crossed
Miss Theyn's mind.

You are not afraid that I might try to
influence you against your wish, are you,
Barbara ?' she asked. ' Are you thinking, for
instance, that I may try to persuade you to
discountenance my brother ? Is it that ?'

Barbara lifted her straightforward, unsuspicious
face, and some pain was written there,
some surprise.

No,' she said, ' I was not thinking o' that,
not then. But since you have spoke of it of
yourself', Miss Theyn, would you mind saying'
more — all you think, indeed ?'

All that I think on the matter,' Thorhilda
said earnestly ; ' that would be difficult. Still
I should like you to know the truth. . . .
Let us speak exactly. I went over to the
Grange one day on purpose to speak to my
brother about you ; it was the day after I had
seen you on the beach. I went to talk to him
about his intercourse with you, to ask him his
wishes and intentions, to beg him to consider
seriously what he was doing. But afterward
when I came away, and was trying to remember
what I had said, I was surprised to
find that I had said so little of all that I had
meant to say. . . . Life is seldom cut and

squared to one's anticipations. Some new-experience,
giving rise to some new feeling,
does away with all the old conclusions, and
one is left perplexed.'

Bab was listening, fully understanding, and
Miss Theyn knew .that she understood. Half
unaware, an opinion as to Bab's quick and
strong intellectual capacity was growing within
her with every turn of the conversation. It
was not what the girl said, but what the
expression of her face said for her.

Let us speak exactly, you said just now,
Miss Theyn ;' and Bab's repetition of the
phrase, her very intonation of it, might have
been amusing at another time. ' Let us
speak exactly, you say. Well, then, you did
wish to persuade your brother from thinking'
o' me. You went to the Grange on purpose ?'

Yes,' Miss Theyn replied, sorry for the
sudden sorrow she saw in Barbara's eyes and
about the finely-curved, sensitive mouth.
Barbara remained quite silent.

I did go on that errand,' Miss Theyn
repeated. ' But I must tell you all ; I must
tell you that I found my brother's mind so
completely made up that no influence of

mine availed to move him from his purpose
for a second. . . . We are a stubborn race,
we of Garlaff, and we seldom change.'

Then you failed of your errand' !' Bab asked
quietly.

Yes ; utterly.'

An' you were sorry ?'

How shall I reply to that, Barbara ? I
wish to tell the truth, and I do not wish to
pain you.'

And the truth is '

The truth is simply this,' interrupted Miss
Theyn, not liking to see any longer the sad,
heart hungry look on Bab's face — it was like
watching the going down of some emotional
thermometer, marking; the deserves of lowering
' The truth is this, that I
do not at present understand myself, my own
feeling in the matter. . I suppose I had some
regret ; I suppose I did feel some annoyance
at my brother's strong determination.'

Thank you. Miss Theyn,' Barbara said very
calmly. ^ I knew you'd speak plain, an' I'm
glad you spoke to-day. . . . An' thank you
again for the roses. 'Twas good of you, an'
kind, to give them to me.'

Barbara's face had grown paler as she
turned away ; her look was grave to dignity,
and her bow graceful enough for any lady in
the land. Thorhilda bowed and smiled, then
gave a word to the coachman, who was glad
that his impatient horses should at last be
delivered from that long stay in the village
street. ' Home,' Miss Theyn said, throwing
herself back among the rugs and cushions,
and yielding herself up to feelings of mingled
dissatisfaction and self-reproach. In wishing
to be perfectly truthful, had she gone beyond
the truth ? Had she been quite careful
enough of the evidently too-sensitive feelings
of another ? Barbara Burdas had touched
her, appealed to the yet but half awakened
sense of humanity that was struggling for
its existence within her, and she could not
put away the appeal.

I wish I had said a word more — but one
word !' she exclaimed half-audibly. ' Perhaps
I may say it yet — I must. That sad look of
Barbara's will certainly haunt me so long as it
is unsaid !'

EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES.

Well you may, you must, set down to me,
Love that was life, — life that was love.'

Robert Browning.

Was it a little unfortunate that Hartas should
take it into his head to go down to Ulvstan
that same evening ? He had not seen
Barbara for some days ; he was feeling lonely
and unhappy, and also hopeful ; and the
unexpected darkness and chilliness of the
summer night helped his feeling of depression.
And he soon discerned that Bab was not
likely to put it away that evening. He
recognised at once that she was in some
highly wrought mood not to be accounted
for by failure or success in gathering her tale
of limpets.

He had been waiting patiently below the

little wooden gallery for some time when Bab
appeared. He knew her ways. She would
come out to the spring by the corner of the
house for water, or to close the old green
window shutters, or to stand and look at the
sky and breathe the fresh sea-air for a few
minutes, as was her wont during the indoor
evenings she bore so badly. Hartas did not
dare, now or ever, to do anything but wait
quite silently ; and he had been waiting for
more than an hour when at last he heard the
click of the wooden latch. Barbara came outstood
at the top of the five little steps, listening,
as it were. How was it that she seemed
to know so quickly that someone was there,
that that someone was Hartas Theyn ? She
certainly could not see him in the dim light
that was where he stood.

It's late for you to be so far fra Garlaff,'
she said, coming to the edge of the little
wooden platform and bending over. Hartas
could see her now in the light from the
window, and he could hear her voice, the
encouraging tone of it, the absence of all
welcome in it, of all pleasure. And yet what
was the meaning of that slight difficulty that

VOL. I. 9

seemed almost like tremulousness for the
moment ? Hartas was perplexed.

It's none so late he replied, putting much
emotion into the quiet emotionless words, and
drawing nearer to the gallery as he spoke.
It's none so late. Why there's lights allover
the place yet.'

The lights i' the windows o' fashionable
folk Bab replied, with unaccustomed satire.
^ They're going' to bed, worn out wi' lissenin' to
the band all the morning', an' going' up the
cliff side i' the lift to lunch. An' then they
get more tired wi' driven' about i' carriages all
the afternoon ; an' they've got to sit two
hours at dinner, an' then there's the band
again. Oh, it nun be a wearying' life, that o'
theirs. . . . Yet, after all, I'd like to try it for
about a fortnight.'

A fortnight ! You'd never staid it that
long, Barbara,' Hartas said, speaking in far
gentler tones than Bab herself had used.
But I don't wonder that you should wish
for rest, for change of some kind. I often
think of you, an' of the way you work,
morn, noon, an' night. It would kill most
women

Barbara laughed, not a pleasant laugh to
the ears of Hartas Theyn.

It 'ud kill some men,' she said, * it might
even do 'em harm to lev to think of it. An*
Ah don't wonder at you been' struck wi' the
sight 0' work of any kind !'

Then she stopped, and presently added with
even more of bitterness in her tone :

If you've wondered about me, I've wondered
about you, an' not a little ! How do you ever
get through the days ? I should think everyday
was like a week ; an' every week like a
year. Oh, me 1 I can tell you I lev
wondered how you live your life, an' you a
man !'

Hartas was blushing under the cover of the
night ; Bab's too sharp and eager words smote
upon his own consciousness of the unworthiness
of his existence so that every sentence
hurt him like a blow. And yet there was
something to be said in answer. Mastering
as well as he could the hot tide of anger that
was pouring over him, making him quiver to
the very lips, he strove to make reply.

Every word you've said shows how little
you know 0' the truth,' he began, using more

9—2

impressiveness in his tones than she had ever
heard before. ' I've been idle snuff, most
o' my life, I admit that, an' not without
regret neither ; but there was something to
be said for me, if there'd been anybody to say
it. I'd no education, because when I was
a little fellow I didn't want none, an' liked
better been' all day long about the Grange, withe
men, an' horses, an' cattle. An' instead
of anyone forcing' me to go to school, my
father was proud o' me, because, been' so little,
I rebelled and wouldn't go. An' they used to
set me upon the table, my uncle an' him, an'
make me tell folk what I thowt o' the schoolmaster,
an' when I said some impudent thug,
they'd all burst out i' laughter, as if I was the
cleverest child i' the world.

An' then by the time I was older, my
father had grown indifferent, an' didn't care
how things went, nor what I did, nor what
nobody did. All he wanted was to be let
alone. An' he dreaded when folks like the
Canon or Mrs. Kerne came bothering' about
me. An' because I was ignorant an' uncultured,
an' couldn't talk to them as an ecjual,
an' felt nought but embarrassment. I grew to

hate the sight 0' them ; an' the hatred was
like anger, an' made me insolent. An' all the
while I was as miserable as I could be ; for
the home's miserable snuff, I can tell you, an*
always has been. But 'twas never till I'd
seen you, Bab, 'at I knew what shame was.
Even when you were a little thing toiling'
and moulin' on the scar all day, I'd ha given
the world to ha' come an' helped you a bit, as
that David Andoe used to do, as he does yet
maybe, for aught I know.'

I'm non one to need help fra no man,*
Barbara said, softened into replying with less
of bitterness in her tone. ^ An' if all be true
as you say, why mebbe one ought to ha' been
more sorry nor vexed wi' you. But it's non
over late i' life, it could never be over late to
begin to mend.'

An' that's just what I'm trying to do ;
what I've been train' to do this year past,
ever since I came to know more of you and
your life. But there's nobody to see any change
in me, or if they do see any it's only something
to be sneered at, an' there's nought i' the
world so bad to bear as a sneer because your
train' to get yourself out o' the old groove.'

Bab did not reply for a moment or two,
then she said eagerly :

Does your sister sneer at you, the one that
lives at the Eectory ? Does she sneer when she
knows you're train to make a new beginning' V

Hartas felt his answer too deeply to have it
on his tongue very readily.

Her sneer !' he said at last ; * her sneer
at anything good ! Eh, but the very question
shows how little you know her. . I
don't know much of her myself, an' mebbe I
might say " more's the pity " if I knew all it
meant. An' it's not her fault 'at we're little
more than strangers. I didn't want to know
her, or to see her ; an' for years I took some
pains to let her know that I didn't. An' yet
she's never resented it i' no way ; mebbe she
knows 'at there's things to be said on the
other side. They've talked against her at the
Grange, and said as liow^ she was '' stuck up ;"
an' of all bad things to bear, that's about the
worst to me. An' I believed them ; an' when
I heard her talk it seemed to me 'at her way
o' speaking' was mincing', an' over fine ; an' her
ways was far o'er fastidious for a rough chap
like me. An' at last she was no more to me

nor a stranger I'd never heard tell of. . . . But
now,' and here Hartas's voice changed and
softened — ' now it seems as if she'd been cabin'
all the while, an' feeling' lonely, an' within only
as she'd had so much as one real brother or
sister i' the world. I'd never dreamed of it,
it's all new ; an' — well, if the truth must be
told, I'm feeling as if there was nought I
wouldn't do to please her. No, there's nought
but one thing, an' that she'll never ask, no,
she'll never ask it, Bab, if you let her know
you as / know you. She'd never dream o'
within' anybody to make such a sacrifice o'
their whole life as that.'

For a little while Barbara was thoughtful
and silent.

No, your sister would never ask it,' she
said, speaking in a low, fervid way, rather
as if she spoke to herself for her own
strengthening than as one speaking to another.
' She'd noiin do that — not of her
own free will ; but what she'd never ask for
one might offer her, mebbe. . Or no, it
'ud ha' to be done without words I Anyhow,
for hers one would do it, an' willingly, — ay,
more than willingly.'

THE STORY OF A MISTAKE.

And soon we feel the want of one kind heart
To love what's well, and to forgive what's ill
In us — that heart we play for at all risks.'

Festus, P. J. Bailey.

Hartas quite understood ; comprehending not
only the reading of the woman he loved, but
the depth of her strong determination. She
was capable of this thing that she was evidently
revolving in her mind; and the idea
thus newly and suddenly presented to him was
sufficiently disturbing.

When have you seen my sister last V he
asked, after a pause which had given him time
to view the situation with some dismay.

'This afternoon,' replied Bab without hesitation.
' I'd been over to Danesborough for
fathers ; and had come back to Ulvstan by the
train . . . Miss Theyn was i' the street, in her

carriage. She'd her hands full 0' roses ; an'
she gave 'em to me.'

'An' you'd sacrifice, not only yourself but
me, because 0' that 1' Hartas exclaimed, the
hastiness in his tone betraying much that the
merciful darkness was hiding. But though
Bab could not discern the hot tide of colour
that had risen to his face, she felt the change
in his accents, and was silent.

Because of a handful o' flowers that never
cost her a halfpenny, an' likely snuff was never
meant for you, you're willing' to throw me an'
all my hopes overboard for ever ! . . . Good
heavens, what strange sort o' stuff a woman's
made of 1'

Even as he spoke he remembered the day on
the beach, when, for all his natural want of
perspicaciousness, he had discovered that his
sister had suddenly won more of Bab's favour
and affection than he had been able to win by
the effort of months, nay, of years. At that
moment he had been half-glad, half-proud ;
but he saw it all in a new light now ; and the
vision exasperated him, though he could hardly
have told whether it was his sister or Barbara
Burdas against whom his anger was turned.

He had not been particularly hopeful before ;
but this new fear seemed to destroy the hope
he had had, and to do this with a completeness
for which he himself could not have
accounted.

I didn't come down here to lev no words
he said, remembering sadly enough the loving,
longing feeling that had beset him as he walked
down from the Grange ; a longing to pour out
all his heart to Bab ; to tell her of his new
consciousness of wasted life, of his remorse and
repentance, of his only half comprehended
desire for better things. For him, as for most
human beings, a true love was proving that it
held the key to truer life, to fuller light. He
had not attained to anything yet ; but knowledge
was coming to him hourly, that attainment
was not only desirable, not only possible,
but imperative, if he would live at all, if he
would not remain in that slough wherein he
had lain so long. He put it down to the fact
of his ignorance that all seemed so obscure,
so undefined, that instead of some clear aim
and rule to guide him he had only a more or
less vague longing for better things — a longing
that seemed to be bound up inseparably

with his desire to win the love of Barbara
Burdas.

The cygnet finds the water, but the man
Is born in ignorance of his element,
And feels out blind at first, disorganized
By sin i' the blood — his spirit-insight dulled
And crossed by his sensations. Presently
He feels it quicken in the dark sometimes,
When mark, be reverent, be obedient.
For such dumb motions of imperfect life
Are oracles of vital Deity,
Attesting the hereafter.'

The aspiration which had come to Hartas
Theyn did not touch any far-off future ; it
was held by strong bonds to the disappointing
and cruel-seeming present ; and out of all his
thinking, and feeling, and enduring, hardly
anything could be put into words. Bab understood
how it was with him ; and the long
silence did not seem long to her, the torrent
of her own thought and emotion was too full
and rapid for that, and certainly neither of
them dreamed that another was impatient of
the pause, that another listened for the next
word — listened breathlessly and eagerly.
Having hitherto caught only the tones of the
speakers, and perceiving that these did not
betoken the friendliness of feeling believed on

the Forecliff to exist between Barbara Burdas
and the Squire's son, it was no wonder that
Nan Tyas should be drawn by an irresistible
curiosity to listen. Nan was not at any time
what might be called an over-scrupulous
woman. Though she had now been married
some six months, she was still little more thana
girl ; and being David Andoe's sister she
had especial reasons for wishing to know the
truth.

She was not a loving; woman. Passion, of
various kinds, she might already be acquainted
with, but the gentleness of true affection was
as strange and unaccustomed to her as to any
of her ungentle family. Yet she had some
liking for her brother David, a liking made up
of regard for his forbearance, of respect for his
indomitable high principle, for his unswerving
effort after a perfectly patient endurance of
trials which she but half understood to be
trying at all. She knew, as she could not fail
to do, of his unhappy love for Barbara Burdas,
and in this matter her sympathy, if indeed
sympathy ' her fierce and narrow feeling could
be called, was all for him.

To-night accident had led her round by old

Ephraim's cottage, or the ' Sagged House,' * as
it was called upon the ForeclifF, from the fact
of its having suffered so severely in a landslip
as to have lost all claim to perpendicularity.
Strangers looked upon it with amazement
when they knew that it was inhabited by a
family of respectable fisher folk. But Nan
was not thinking of the house, or of its
crookedness, as she went rapidly by the path
from the Andoes' home to her own, a path that
led behind the Sagged House, and away across
the waste sea-front of the rock to her own
cottage on the southern side. It was late,
half-past ten at least ; and though Nan was
alone she had no expectation of anything
happening, least of all anything that would
enable her to carry a word of comfort to her
brother David.

Nan was already weary of standing there by
the tarred paling that ran along the edge of

Sagged (according to Robinson's Yorkshire ' Glossary')
means ' bulged out at the side, as a bowing wall.' But the
word is used in other ways. For instance, a woman's gown,
drawn at the seams, will be said to ' sag.' So, too, Shakespeare
in Macbeth v. iii. : —

The heart I bear
Shall never sag with doubt.'

what had once been a stone-quarry, and was
just above old Ephraim's cottage. She knew
that the Squire's son was still there ; she could
discern the outline of his figure as he leaned
upon a solitary gate-post, from which the gate
had gone long ago. Barbara, being on the little
wooden gallery, was out of sight, though not
out of hearing.

I didn't come down to lev no words,'
Hartas had said at last, speaking with much
more of sullen anger in his tone than was in
his heart.

Bab, feeling sorry for him, and being in
pain and perplexity for herself, made no
reply.

Naturally the mind of each had wandered
far enough from the point touched at that
moment ; still Hartas seemed as if he would
take up the conversation where it had been
left off.

No ; I didn't come down here to quarrel,'
he said, in gentler and truer tones. (Nan
Tyas could distinguish every syllable.) ' I
came for a purpose very different fra that,
Barbara ; an' I can't go no roundabout way toit
neither. . . . You know what it is ! If

I've never asked you the same question in
plain words before, I've all but done it many
a time, when you've stopped me, either by
one means or another ; an' I must ask it now.
An' I'll say the truth as to what I believe. I
don't think 'at you care so much for me, not
yet ; but I do think 'at you'll come to care, if
you'll let me lev the chance o' winning' you.
Hev I made a mistake, Bab, i' thinking' 'at you
don't alius look at me so coldly now as you
used to do ? I've fancied so sometimes lately ;
an' I've been that glad when you seemed to
give me a kinder look 'at I've hardly known
whether I were walking' on the ground or on
the air. It's none my way to talk wild, as
you know ; or I'd say things stronger nor
that. Mebbe I may say 'em yet if you give
me the answer I want. . . . Bab, you will
say it ? You'll be my wife ? I know you
will ! You'll never cut a fellow off frey all
the hope he les i' the world % An' you shan't
repent ; no, never for a moment so long as
you live, if I can help it.'

Still there was silence.

Barbara's heart was beating with such wildness
as it had perhaps never known before ;

and the tears would have come but for the
strong forgetfulness exerted to keep them back.
Never yet, never for one moment, had temptation
been so strong ; never before had it
seemed so light a matter that Miss Theyn
should some day blush for her ignorance, that
Miss Theyn's kind eyes should droop in sorrow
because of her awkwardness, her ill-bred ungraciousness.
This was the sole hindrance on
the surface of her thought ; but there was
more below, much that she only half comprehended.
What was it, that something that
spoke of some light to be had, some good to
be gained, some platform to be reached, the
lower step of which might be reached by even
a gatherer from the limpet rocks ? The one
thing that was clear to her in this perplexing
moment was that she must at least wait, that
she must not obey the longing — it was pressing
upon her somewhat heavily to-night — the
longing to lay down her life's hard burden,
and rest upon the deep and true affection
offered to her. Bab did not doubt its truth.

If she had spoken openly, she would have
said :

^ I do love you, even now ; and my love for

you is sweet to me; yours for me is comforting
sustaining. Love is more than all I had
dreamed or imagined. But something within
me is incredulous of so o;reat a o:ood, and will
not let me accept it.'

It even seemed as if in this strong and
strange contest Bab's courage was giving way
the one great quality which had seemed to
place her so high above her fellows, leaving
her timid and helpless as women are supposed
always to be. And inevitably Hartas Theyn
discerned the fact. We hide nothing from
each other. Dissimulation at its best is nevermore
than a partial success.

You've no answer, Bab ?' he asked, with
tender surprise in his tone ; but intense feeling
was underneath.

For all his fever of anxiety he could yet be
glad that no quick and emphatic denial had
swept his hope to the ground.

At last Barbara spoke.

No,' she said. And Hartas knew, and Nan
Tyas knew, that her voice was the voice of
one subduing a very passion of sobs and tears.
No, I've no answer. . . . That's just the
truth — I can't make no answer.'

VOL. I. 10

In one moment, one misguided moment
later, Hartas Theyn was beside her on the
little wooden gallery, his arm was round her,
her face was raised to his, all unawares and
against her will. For one not-to-be-forgotten
moment, Barbara Burdas was overmastered by
the mingled forces of love and strength.

And Nan Tyas knew it all, stooping therein
the darkness, bending forward with her ear
turned in the direction of the cottage door,
and her face hot with the strain of listening.
She knew every thing.

I have no answer,' Bab had said.

Theyn I'll take an answer 1' Hartas Theyn
exclaimed in the first flush of his momentary
success.

But the next moment Barbara had freed
herself with a single strong effort. Standing
apart, alone, conscious to her finger-tips of a
new shame, a new and unexpected humiliation,
speaking louder than before, and far
more angrily than she knew :

Take an answer !' she exclaimed. And
Hartas Theyn could see the flashing of her
eyes in the faint light from the window ; he
could discern in her tone the surprise and

indignation that had come upon her with his
ill-judged action. ' You'll take an answer !'
she repeated. ' Eh, but it's little you know o'
me, if you think I'm one to be treated so !
. . No, Mr. Theyn, I'll find an answer
noo, since you're so eager for one ; an' it's
soon said. You asked me to be your wife,
an' I say, No, never ! I'd marry no man 'at
showed me so plain he'd no more respect forme
nor that ! There's my answer ! . . .
Good-night.'

Nan Tyas heard the quick bolting of the
cottage door, the sharp rattle of the window-blind
as it dropped over the panes. Then she
knew that Hartas Theyn walked away with
slow and heavy step and frequent pauses, but
not pausing near enough or long enough to
hear the sound that Nan heard later — the
sound of subdued and bitter weeping.

She'll non wed him Nan said to herself,
as she went homeward. * Her pride '11 never
stand such ways as that. There's more nor a
chance for David yet ; as he shall know afore
he's a day older !'

10—2

SOME ART CRITICS.

Humanity is great ;
And if I would not rather pore upon
An ounce of ugly, common, human dust,
An artisan's palm, or a peasant's brow,
Smooth, ignoble, save to me and God,
Than track old Nisus to his silver roots,

Set it down

As weakness— strength by no means.'

E, B. Browning.

All the morning, since the first ebbing of the
tide, Damian Aldenmede had been sitting
there under the cliffs beyond Yarva Ness, his
easel with its broad canvas before him, a white
umbrella behind him, a carefully kept and
curiously-set palette, with the usual sheaf of
brushes in his hand. A noticeable figure he
made in that wide stretch of land and sea.
Usually the scene was a more or less dreary
one, inclining to a melancholy speculativeness,

or to hopeful acquiescence ; but no such
mood might beset any responsive human being
on a morning so free, so fresh, so blue, so
sunny as this. Damian Alclenmede's tall, thin
frame was not the home of a soul that could
be called unresponsive.

After working: with more than his usual
rapidity for a couple of hours, putting on
canvas, with what truth and poetry of truth
were in his power, the great gray nab that
ran out from the land, and crossed a considerable
stretch of the sea, he was now resting
awhile, surveying the result of that long spell
of sea-born inspiration. He was not wholly
.satisfied ; what true creator is ever satisfied'
with his own creation %

In all the Bible is there no more striking
and suggestive passage than that one to be
read in the Book of Genesis : — ' And it
repented the Lord that He had made man
on the earth ; and it grieved Him at His
heart.'

This is startling ; but it is entirely conceivable
; and a man might find motive-power
enough for a change of life, were he to try
but for one hour to grasp all that that

strange and awful repentance must have
meant. It must have involved and included
so much more than we can even dream of
here. The repentance of an All-knowing
and All-foreseeing God! We imagine it to
be contradictory ; and so it is to our finite
reasoning and understanding. Our utmost
effort can bring about no satisfactory reconciliation,
and few altogether reverent minds
could wish to attempt any such reconcilement.
The great hereafter, heaven itself, is made
more attractive by the thought of all we
have to learn; and if to this you join the
added power of learning and discerning that
eve may hope for, we get a brighter and
more living glance and grasp of that eternity'
which, being in a large sense vague, may not
be entirely appalling to some, and those
not the worst, not the most dead to aspiration.


By the ancient Greeks — the worthiest and
best of them — the pleasures of the intellect
were accounted the highest of all, the pleasures
of learning, of knowing, of thinking, of
discovering ; and this pleasure was inherent,
not heightened in any way by the display of

knowledge as an accomplishment. So far as
these authors and thinkers of that olden
time knew they were wise and right ; but
the pleasures of the still finer, the still higher
part of man's nature had not then been made
manifest as they were to be made by the
development of a new dispensation. This
higher discerning; was reserved for the followers
of One despised, rejected, misunderstood
in His own day, save by a responsive
few. We, the inheritors of these few, seeing
by their light, discern more clearly the
nature of the most perfect felicity possible
to man, and therefore have keener appetence
for it, keener hope and expectancy. By
this hope we live. The miserable man is he
whose hope is dulled — dulled by care, by
sin, or by neglect of spiritual culture. Does
it need the combined effort of the three to
destroy the soul meant for far other than
destruction ? That they run one into another
in ways unexpected, undreamed, we all of
us know ; and those who deny most strenuously
the existence of any tempting personal
spirit of evil, must yet admit the existence
of some ingenious and most forcible laws of

deterioration. . . . These we do not understand
; how should we ? But we can at least
believe in them sufficiently to dread a time
when disbelief may be no longer possible.

It is not the man who, to use an easy saying,
is ' born good ' — to whom purity and
uprightness are as first instincts ; it is not
this man who can enter fully into the life of
him whose soul is weighted from the beginning
with strong impulses toward evil that beset
him, body and mind. And here is the root
of much of our harsh judgment. We see the
error, but not the strange and peculiar force
of circumstance that led the erring man into
sin before he was well aware. We see his
fall, but not the long and sore strife with overwhelming
temptation.

But while we are thanking God that weare
not as this man, it may be that God
Himself is stooping from heaven to comfort
him with all divine and most efficacious
comfort.

Which of My Saints, of the men possessed
by the Prayer-spirit, from Abraham to Gordon,
was without spot or stain ? Which of them
was unblessed by repentance ? Was not the

oft and grievously eiriiig David a man after
My own heart ? Did not Magdalen love the
more because there was in her so much to be
forgiven ? Is it not an echo, and also a proof
of the felicitous bliss of My Divine Forgiveness
that there is no finer and more perfect human
emotion than that between two loving human
souls, one of which receives full forgiveness
from the other V

So one might hear, if one listened, with
other words more consoling still. Damian
Aldenmede had heard.

The upright man is dear to Me,' saith
One. ' The man who loves much is dearer
yet.'

And there is even another. ' To him that
overcome will I grant to sit with Me in My
Throne.'

Him that overcome ! This is the touchstone.
The man whose way is plain, and
smooth, and easy ; into whose life no question
as to strife, as to yielding, has ever
entered ; this man may not be shut out from
the kingdom, since such slight test was given
him whereby he might prove himself worthy
to enter. But not for him the shout that shall

go up before the Throne of God as greeting
to those who have come out of great tribulation.


In my Father's house are many mansions.'


You had only to look once into the face of
Damian Aldenmede to see that he was now,
at least in one sense, like the Master whom
he would fain follow, were it but afar off.
At the first sight you knew that you looked
upon a man over whose head the waves and
storms of life had swept pitilessly.

It was a calm enough face now — indeed,
the most forcible impression you received
was one of a human being, strong and tranquil
; and in the same moment you saw that
both the strength and the tranquillity were
of the kind that come by long and sore
strife.

Contradictions where not wanting — they
seldom arc on the face of man or woman
of middle age. The young, who have not
entered into the fight, the old, who have
fought and won — or lost — these may impress
you with unity, with consistency — seldom
others.

On this artist's face, for instance, except
when in perfect repose, the extreme gravity
would be half betrayed by certain curves
that declared lira not incapable of humour ;
and the stern, ascetic lines about the mouth
were somewhat neutralised by the tenderness
of the deep, sad gray eyes — eyes that
were sure to be uplifted to yours, at first
with something of inquiry in them, of searching,
as if once more he were asking the
question :

Shall one find human faith on this human
earth V

It is Emerson who says :

I confess to an extreme tenderness of
nature on this point. It is almost dangerous
to me to " crush the sweet poison of misused
wine " of the affections. A new person is
to me a great event, and hinders me from
sleep.'

Not less keenly had Damian Aldenmede
felt on this matter ; and, need one say it,
all his life he had suffered in proportion to
the depth and keenness of his feeling. The
assurance most present with him now was
that they are happiest who expect least.

In one thing at least he was fortunate, in
being able to gratify his instinct for movement
whenever the desire came upon him.
If he had not wealth, then poverty did not
chain him by the feet. If no ties of human
love held him by beseeching hands, still he
had freedom and power to secure the solitude
he had come to prize so greatly. And he was
not incapable of weighing, of duly appreciating
the good he had.

As he sat there on the point of rock by
his easel, looking out over the rippling tide,
soothed by its murmuring, soothed yet more
by the far stretches of blue sky, of bluer
distant sea, the extreme gravity of his face
seemed to relax a little ; then his head was
bent listening. By-and-by he smiled, and
the austere face became winning, beautiful,
pathetic, in the light of one of the most
human of human pleasures.

It was only a song that he listened to, a
doleful ballad of an older day, sung by girls'
voices, that rose and fell upon the breeze,
now seeming near, now floating afar. At last
the words became plainly discernible :

And tell that lady of my woe,

And tell her of my love ;
And give to her this golden ring
My tender scythe to prove.'

This was only sung by one or two voices ;
next there came a little chatting and some
laughing ; then a chorus came that might
have been sung by a dozen voices at least :

Yee fare dames of merry England,
Faste youre tears must pure ;
For many's the valiant Englishman
That yee sail see noe more.'

All the voices joined in this, with some attempt
at part singing — crude, unscientific, yet with
a certain most attentively wild sweetness.
This was followed by a single voice, young,
clear, fresh, as the wind from the sea.
Now and then it seemed to vibrate tremblingly,
as if to the pathos of the words of the
old ballad :

Fare Alice shea sat her on the grounde.
And never a worde shee spake ;
But like the pale image dyd shee looke,
For her heart was night to break.

The rose that once soe ting'd her cheeks,
Was nowe, alas ! noe more ;
But the whiteness of her lille skin
Was fairer than before.'

By this time the girls had come to the

angle of the rock ; there were seven of them,
tall, straight, strong-limbed fisher-girls, each
with her basket of limpets on her head ; each
dressed in her own half-masculine, wholly
picturesque costume. They made a striking
group as they came swiftly onward, with
swinging gait, and gay, fearless countenance.
Damian Aldenmede, comparatively young
though he might be, and certainly strong,
was yet half-envious of the quick, vivid,
energetic life displayed in every movement
made by these fisher-girls of Ulvstan Bight.
He had discerned them before they were aware
of his presence under the tall, blue-black rock.
It was the white umbrella, the easel with
its wide canvas, that attracted their attention
first. Then came a momentary pause in the
singing, an echo of faint, surprised laughter ;
but almost immediately the singing was heard
again. By this time it was the turn of the
solis, who was no other than Barbara
Burdas.

And nowe came horsemen to the towne,
That the prince had sent with speed ;
With tydings to Alice that he dyd live
To ease her of her dread.

But the page hee saw the lovely e Alice
In a doepe, deep grave let downe,
And at her head a greene turf blade,
And at her f este a stone.'

So Barbara sang, in impressive, thrilling
tones, that rose and died away with a
plaintiveness that seemed to belong not altogether
to the words, nor yet to the quaint
and simple music, but to some special quality
in the singer's own nature. She came onward,
a little in advance of the others, singing
as she came, and bearing her burden of
limpets — some three stones of them — on her
head, with a kind of unconscious consciousness
of grace, the grace of strength in her
bearing. Damian Aldenmede, watching her,
seemed to be almost perplexed in his surprise.
The possibilities of form, of action, of attitude,
where all awakened in him with that new force -
fulness of impression which is so much to an
artist. It is in such moments that he lives
and moves — moves rapidly onward.

Yet nearer the girls came, smiling archly,
sino;inor —

Yee fare dames of merry England,'

lifting coquettish glances to the face of the
artist who sat quietly by his easel, a man

too grave, too long and too deeply tried, to
be abashed in such a crisis as this. He raised
his eyes to meet the eyes of the tall central
figure — it was nearer to him than the others —
and almost on the instant he became aware
that this was not a first meeting. Apparently
they were both aware of it.

But the others did not perceive. They
were finishing their chorus in a light, easy
way. With the last words they stopped by
the easel, looked at the artist with eager,
interested, surprised looks ; then they turned
to the nab in the distance, glancing from it
to the canvas and back again with the glance
supposed to be peculiar to practised and competent
judges.

It's non sa bad !' said Nan Tyas encouragingly.


'Isn't black anuff"/ Market Scurr interposed.


It's over far away,' remarked Nell Furnish.

Still the artist sat there with seeming impassiveness,
listening to these untrained, yet
perhaps not quite untrue art critics; but since
their remarks were in nowise addressed to him
he could hardly make reply. He noticed

many things as he sat there ; amongst others,
that Barbara Burdas had no word to sav,
critical or other. She was looking at the
sketch with eager eyes, with parted lips, and
with an air of intense interest, which naturally
increased the artist's interest in her. Meantime
her companions were moving away, impatient
for their noonday cup of tea and
freshly-caught herring.

Ye'll be coming' when yer ready, Bab !'
Nan Tyas said, looking back with a meaning,
mocking glance, which Bab returned with a
steady look of warning. Damian Aldenmede
saw and understood. This woman was not
to be trifled with, even by her own companions.
Her look, the power in it, the unconscious
demand of self-respect it betrayed,
increased his sudden regard for her, and
awoke the desire to know more of her that
was later to lead to such unexpected results.
How frequently in our life does a look have
the dynamic force of an event ! No observant
human being has lived his life without being
aware of the fact that much is said, much
done, in which neither word nor action has
any part.

VOL. I. 11

BARBARA BETRAYS HERSELF.

The effect of the indulgence of this human affection is a
certain cordial exhilaration. In poetry and in common speech
the emotions of benevolence and complacency which are felt
towards others are likened to the material effects of fire, so
swift, or much more swift, more active, more cheering, are
the fine inward irradiations. From the highest degree of
passionate love, to the lowest degree of good will, they make
the sweetness of life.' — Emerson.

Another moment or two they stood in silence,
then the artist said, with respectful tone and
manner :

Surely I have seen you somewhere before?
I have not been here for many years; yet
I seem to remember you.'

'Many years!' Barbara replied, looking
into the worn, much-enduring face before
her, and all unconsciously using a less rude
degree of the dialect of her daily life.
'Many years! It's just five this herring-time

. I remember so well. It was the year
after the big storm. Mebbe you heard o' that?'

Yes, indeed; and now I remember. You
are Barbara Burdas,' he said, with an increase
of gravity, and speaking as much to himself as
to Bab. ' And many things come back with
m}^ remembrance of that same summer. .
Yes, many things.'

Then he looked into the girl's face again,
the face that had been so beautiful, so touching,
five years ago, and now was more beautiful,
more touching than ever. He could not but
continue to look, to question silently, to answer
himself silently also.

There is trouble there,' he said, discerning
by, the light of the bygone trouble that was
dead, but not buried, in his own heart. . . .
There is sorrow, and yearning, and strength,
and determination. There is no yielding,
there is no joy, there is no hope. . . . Poor
child ! for you are but a child in spite of all
contrary securing.'

All this the artist's eyes said, and Barbara
understood in a degree, and her face was
slightly averted : she was not used to sympathy
and understanding.

11—2

I remember your loss,' the artist said.
Your great loss! And your grandfather —
how is he?'

He's hearty, thank ya

And the little ones — how many ? I forget
the number

Four; they are all well, all bonny, all
good. Nobbut Jack gives a bit o' bother
now an' then; but he's not a bad bairn

Only troublesome? You are right, that
doesn't mean badness, very seldom. But
about yourself — what have you been doing-all
these years? Working — that I know;
but your life has not been all work, not
merely work, that I can see! . I can see
much, some things that make me sad. Will
you forgive me if I speak out — if I say just
what I am thinking:? . I am fearing that
you have suffered, that you have some sorrow
now — some sorrow of which you do not speak.
Am I mistaken? Am I reading your face
wrongly ?'

Bab blushed deeply and smiled with a very
sad sweetness, while the tears that rose to her
eyes were dashed away with most impatient
gestures.

It mim be a queer face, I'm thinking,'
she said, with a touch of inevitable satire.
Or else you nun be one o' the thought-readers
'at one hears tell on i' the newspapers.'


But you don't read the newspapers,
Barbara?'

The girl looked up in surprise. The tone
of the interlocutor's voice seemed to her to
have reproach in it, which she could not
understand, yet she must speak out.

Yes,' she said. ' Every week o' my life I
read the Ulvstan Mercury — most of it I read
aloud to my grandfather — he's desert keen
o' the news. I used to be troubled wi' the
strange things 'at I didn't understand; an'
more especially wi' the strange words 'at I
couldn't say. But now I can guess sometimes;
an' I've begun to see 'at it's all i' education,
the difference atween folk. If you'd
a thousand pounds i' gold, and had no education,
you'd be nowhere. But the worst o' the
newspaper is that there's never snuff about
nothing to satisfy ya. There's a little ^ bit
o' this, an' a little bit o' that, an' yare left just
about as wise as ya were before.'

The artist was listening keenly, noting sadly.
You have no books, then?' be asked after a
time.

.rob, yes, ever so many!' said Bab, rather
proudly. ' We've the Bible, an' two prayer-books,
an the Methodist Hymn-book. An'
then, non so long ago, Mi.-s Theyn gave me
the " Pilgrim's Progress," an' I've read it
three times through already. But there's
other books I know, a sight o' them, an I
reckon they've all got something in 'em 'atone
'ud be the better for knowing. One sees
them i' the shop-w^inda's. But then, they're
not the sort o' books for such as me — very few
o' them. They're meant for scholars — for such
as '

Barbara did not finish her sentence, nor did
she sigh or look despondent as before. Instead,
she merely turned her face and looked
out to the sea, out to where the white-sailed
ships were gleaming and gliding in the far blue
distance.

'You are thinking of some one?' Damian
asked gently.

I Yes,' Bab replied, with her usual instinct,
toward ingenuousness. ' Yes; I was thinking

of her — Miss Theyn. You'll know her
maybe?'

^No; I do not. I was here a \'^r^ short
time, and I did not then desire to knows
anyone. . . . Who is Miss Theyn ? The
Hector's daughter?'

No ; the Rector's niece. Old Squire
Theyn's her father ; but she lives at the
Rectory.'

And she is a scholar?'

Bab raised her eyes swiftly.

I should think she is!' was the emphatic
reply. ' Eh ! you should hear her talk — it's
beautiful. The words is like — oh, I don't
know what it is I would say ! It's just as if
one was lissenin' to music'

Is this lady young?'

'Yes . . . I think so ; but Ah don't know,
for she's sa tall an' sa stately, at times she's
even haughty like; but I can't tell hoo it is,
ya seem ta love her more for it. Ah'm non
one 'hats given to takkin' nought fra nobody ;
but there's been times when I've felt 'at I
would sooner take a blow frey her than a
good word frey anybody else. . It is
straanofe!'

Damian was listening, noting. The girl
was rising to eloquence, if not exactly of
words, then of tone, of expression. The
colour came and went on her face, the fine
mouth quivered slightly, the blue eyes sparkled
to each fresh thought.

She is beautiful, this lady, I am sure?' the
artist said, not with curiosity in his tone, but
musingly, as if he confirmed something to
himself.

Beautiful !' exclaimed Bab, her own face
irradiated to a beauty she herself could not
have appreciated, even had she seen it.
Beautiful ! Eh, me I Ya should see her
when she looks at ya, when she turns her
head a little i' talking', so as to look straight
into yer eyes ! An' then when she smiles —
oh, I could never tell ya ! Ya feel as if
there's nought i' the world ya wouldn't do
for her, an' ya feel downcast like, an' ever sa
far away, because there's nought ya can do.
I've laid awake o' nights many a time thinking'
whether there wasn't nought she'd lev, nought
I could do. . . . There's the lobsters: they've
desert sought after by the better sort o'
folk. Ya know the old saying' about Ulvstan

lobsters and Flamboro' crabs? Well, but
then, you see, so 'twere to be 'at she needed
any such thing, she could buy a pot full,
an' never miss the money. So where's the
good ?'

Damian Aldenmede was listening quite
gravely, comprehending quite clearly.

No,' he said, without a shadow of a
smile. * No, I shouldn't think of the lobsters.
But needlework, now — something of
that sort?'

Needlework 1' poor Bab said sadly. ' I've
thought of it ; but I'm a desert poor hand.
Ah can make a bit o' frock for Ailsie; but
it never fits, not rightly Ah'd no help i'
learning', ya see, my mother been' gone. Anas
for fimcy things, such as ya see i' the
shops, beautiful silky things, wi' pearls an'
velvet, why, a touch o' my hand 'ud drag
'em all to pieces, as if ya swept a ling-besom
across 'em. No, there's nought Ah
can do, not a thing, but stare at her like a
fool when Ah see her, an' then go home an'
cry fit to burst the heart in my body because
Ah can never be nothing to her — nothing at
all!'

It would be difficult to describe with any
accuracy the impression that Damian was
receiving from the fisher-girl's betrayal of the
deep affection won by a woman so far above
her in all that makes difference in human
sight. He would not deliberately have called
himself a student of human nature, yet few
things deserving notice passed him by unobserved.


One of the many ideas pressing upon him
now was this, that here was a woman, young,
eager, capable of some culture, yet held by
ignorance as some are held by physical blindness.
He could see her, as it were, groping
for light, patient under the need for it, but
with deep sadness lying concealed under
the patience. What if he could help a
little?'

Not being quite a young man, having
drunk somewhat deeper than most men of
the cup of experience, he could not all at
once give way to the sudden impulse that
beset him — an impulse that would have led
him to surround this girl with such books
as might be useful, and to help her to suitable
teaching. He must think of it. Yet he

would retain, or rather acquire, the acquaintance
needful to the carrying out of his
project, if he should decide to continue his
intention.

For awhile he had been silent, looking
down to the stone-strewn beach at his feet,
apparently wondering if this or that pebble
Avere the celebrated ' plum-pudding stone ' of
Ulvstan Bight. But it was another kind of
wondering that really occupied his brain.

It moved him to speech at last.

Do you work all the day?' he asked, ' or is
there some definite time set to your working?
What, for instance, do you usually do in the
mornings from ten to one?'

Bab smiled thoughtfully.

Ah do a deal i' that time, most days,*
she replied. ' But the worst's over afore
one o'clock. As a rule, we're at the featherbeds
by four these light morning's — that is,
when the tide fits.'

And the whither-beds are two miles away?'

Nearer three.'

And you come back about this time ?'

It's according' to the tide. We'll be late
this week, an' most o' next.'

I see! Then if I were to ask you to be
kind enough to stand or sit for me, whilst I
make a picture, a likeness of you, it could
only be in the afternoon ?'

Only i' the afternoon these tides,' said Bab,
again blushing deeply.

And you have no objection? You would
oblige me by coming, by remaining in the
same position here on the rocks for an hour or
more at a time? . I do not, of course, wish
you to give me your time without adequate
return.'

Did Bab understand this ' art of putting
things'? Damian was not sure. The girl
looked into his face half-wonderingly. Then
she said, in her simple, straightforward, yet
not undignified manner :

I'd like to come. . I like to listen to
ya when ya speak. . . . Can I come tomorrow?
What time will ya want me? Two
o'clock, will I say?'

A REVELATION.
Oh what a power hath white simplicity !'

Almost as a matter of course, Barbara had
told her grandfather of her interview with the
gentleman down on the rocks by the ness.
Old Ephraim listened silently, smoking his
pipe, looking up somewhat curiously into Bab's
face.

At last he spoke.

Too nun mak' a bargain wiv him, Bab!'
he said, slowly and emphatically. ' Df an't
too goa wasting' thy tame for nowt. They
can afford it, them arises. Why, oat Tommy
Battensby felled me wiv his loan tongue 'at
yon man 'at painted sa mony pictures o' t'
waterfall up boon Garland had meade a
thousand' pun foot o' that bit o' beck allen — a
thousand' pun i' less nor sower year! Think

on't ! Think o' that noo, an' dean's too be
over eager-like. Haud off a bit, an' he'll come
toon — never fear!'

Poor Bab! She hardly knew why this
speech jarred upon her — why everything
seemed to be jarring just now. She said
but little in reply to the old man's characteristic
warnings and exhortations. He had
never before seemed to her to be selfish or
grasping. Now, though they were quite
alone, the idea of ' making a bargain ' with
the kindly and understanding stranger caused
the colour to rise to her face for very pain.
Already she had been thinking in a vague way
that if he should ask her to accept money she
would not take it. Other girls on the Fore-cliff
had taken payment for the same service,
she knew; and they had boas ted of it afterward
; and Barbara had felt herself to shrink
from self comparison with these. Now she
shrank more than ever, since coarse handling-had
made her feel as if the transaction
itself would have a certain coarseness in
it; and a sting was already in the pleasure
that was to have been so pure and so
welcome.

Nevertheless, she went down to the rocks
the next day; and Damian x^ldenmede saw
with something that was almost distress that
she had brushed her luxuriantly straying
auburn hair until it was as nearly smooth
as it could be made to lie, that she had
discarded her red shawl and her blue guernsey
for a badly-fitting lilac-print gown and a clean
white apron. The change was as a complete
transfiguration.

Who shall say that dress goes for nothing
after this ?' he exclaimed inwardly. Outwardly
he was as much at a loss to know
what to say as if he had been dealing with a
duchess.

But Bab saw instantly that something was
wrong. Was it little Ailsie's presence ? Bab
had brought her sister down with her, thinking
that she might cover any awkward
moment that might occur; and also because
she was never so happy as when the child was
by her side.

She was a winning little thing, as Damian
saw at once, despite the Sunday frock and the
hideously-shaped hat of white straw, with its
grass-green feather. Bab had daringly gone

to the best milliner's shop in the town to buy
the hat, knowing that she would have to pay
for her temerity ; but she had not grudged
her hard-earned money, since little Ailsie
was so pleased and had kissed her so warmly.
It had made chatter for a week on the
ForeclifF; but nowhere had it created the
impression it was creating now. Tbe artist
was in despair, for the little one's face grew
upon him with every glance he gave. It was
so soft, so sweet, so pure, so touching, that
he resolved at once to paint the sisters
together if he mio^ht. The contrast between
Bab's largely-moulded figure, her handsome
features, her air of independence, and the
gentle, wistful, delicate appearance of the
seven years' old child at her feet, was too
striking to be foregone. He would make an
effort, a desperate effort if need were.

There had been a moment of awkwardness,
of silence, of mutual disappointment, which
Barbara did not at all understand. At last
the artist spoke :

I ought to have told you,' he began, speaking
in a kindly regretful way — ' I ought
to have said that I wanted you to come just

as you were yesterday, without your bonnet,
and wearing your work-day dress, as I wear
mine,' he added, glancing at his suit of gray
tweed. * And the little one — don't be offended
with me, but she is lovely ; and if I might
paint her too, I should be more grateful to
you than I can say just now. . . . You are not
angry ?'

The latter question came because of the
change that the artist saw on Bab's face — the
tide of hot colour, the quivering of eyelids
over eyes, that seemed as if they might fill
with tears on ever so little more provocation.

Angry ? No,' she said, restraining herself
by a great effort ; * but when I thought
I'd done everything I could to please you,
it's '

It seems a little hard,' said the artist,
speaking so gently and sympathetically that
Bab could not but perceive that he knew all
about it. And as a glimmering of the true
state of affairs began to dawn upon her mind,
the tendency to tears became a tendency to
smile ; and the artist smiled too ; and little
Ailsie laughed a soft low laugh that drew all
attention to herself.

VOL. I. 12

Then what will Ave do ?' said Bab, quite
herself again, and having a generous twinkle
of humour in her glance, that proved her
quickness in passing from one extreme to
the other. ' What will we do ? Come down
again tomorrow afternoon, me wi' my creel
on my head, an' Ailsie wiv a string o' dabs
in her hand ? How would that be like suit in'
ya?'

'It would suit me to a T,' replied Damian,
entering into Bab's new mood all the more
gladly because of the moment of pained constraint.
He could not help adding, * How
quick you are to see !'

D'ye think so ? D'ye think that truly ?'
Bab asked, with sudden glad earnestness.

Certainly I do, or I should not have said
it.'

Bab did not ask the next question that was
trembling on her lips. Instead, she paused,
and looked out, as her frequent way was, over
the peaceful sea, that seemed so wide, so suggestive
of things not to be reached or touched,
yet always to be desired.

Ya really meant that ?' she said, looking
into the grave face before her with a wistful,

eager, pathetic look that marked the relationship
between herself and little Ailsie. ' Ya
mean it — that I am not sa stupid ?

You stupid ? By no means !' was the
emphatic reply. ' What could make you
think that T

Everything said Bab decidedly. ^ I
know nothing, not as they know. I can't
even speak as they speak. An' if I were
even to try down here, there'd be nought but
laughing' an' jeering'. Oh, it's hard — harder
than you think !'

Again the artist was silent, impressed by
the fervour of the girl's manner; discerning
that there was more below the surface than
lie could expect to arrive at all at once.
Surely there must be something beyond mere
admiration for the Rector's niece underneath
all this fervidness, all this strong desire !
And then, quite suddenly, he recollected that
he might have known the truth — perhaps
more than the truth, if he had not, somewhat
peremptorily, closed the lips of his too-loquacious
landlady on the previous evening.
Xow he had to bear the result of his want of
knowledge.

12—2

I think I can understand,' he said presently' ,
putting down his brushes and palette, and
seating himself upon a big, brown, tangle-covered
stone. He had previously offered
his camp-stool to Ailsie, who sat perched
upon it with the prettiest ease of manner
and bearing; her little brown legs crossed,
her clumsily clad feet swaying down below.
Overhead the tall cliffs were towering darkly ;
the gulls were screaming and chuckling in
and out.

I think I can understand,' he went on. ' I
can remember the time, though it seems long
enough a2:o, when nothing; seemed to me so
precious as knowledge. And — don't answer
me unless you like — is it that that is troubling
you, that 3'ou have not what the world calls
education? Is it that you are desiring: so
much — for its own sake?'

He might well ask the question. For the
most part, those who do so desire it are the
last to dream of external help. They have
helped themselves, unknowingly, unconsciously,
long before they were aware of what
they were doing ; and there is no crisis of
their life wherein they awaken to demand of

others some aid in taking the first step. But
though Barbara Burdas was not of these, her
desire was not the less real

She listened to Avhat Damian Aldenmede
was saying wonderingly; her face was bent
downward, her forehead drawn into lines by
the weight of the thought presented to her.

For its loan sake,' she murmured presently.
Then she lifted her troubled eyes to the
artists face, and continued, ' Hoo can one
tell ? Would I ha' cared if it hadn't been for
hin ? Would I ha' cared at all ?'

Damian could only look at the girl with
inquiring looks. She comprehended the inquiry,
and an expression of pain came over
her face.

Ya don't know ! How should ya ? Yet
I thought ya might have heard, sin' it's allover
the place. . . . It's him ; her brother,
as I told you of yesterday. . . . But, oh me !
what am I saying ? He's nought to me — no
more than the wind that blows. . . . What
is it in ya that makes me talk o' things that
never was, nor never can be ? . . . What have
I said ? There's nought in it — no, nought at
all !'

You are speaking of the brother of the
lady 3'ou mentioned yesterday — Miss Theyn.
Do you know him ? Do you know him
intimately ?'

I know snuff about him — more nor snuff,'
Bab replied. Then, instantly remembering*
herself, regretting her words, she said, speaking
more sadly, ' All I've got to do wiv him
now is to forget him — to forget I ever set my
eyes on him, or ever opened my lips to speak
to him, or ever let my ears listen to a word
he'd got to say

Damian Aldenmede was not blind, nor
altogether shortsighted. It was but natural
that he should construe for himself the words
he had heard ; and his own past experience
led him to an almost dangerous Verge of
sympathy.

I think I know all you would wish me to
know,' he replied ; * and I see that you are distrusting
yourself — your own wish for something
more than the mere production of a daily tale of
bricks. Yet whv should you — especially since
you are so sure that you have no other Avisli,
no other hope? And yet I think I understand
you, the doubt you are in ; and, if I may

advise you, I should say, put all doubt aside,
and trust your higher instinct. I speak to
you out of my own past experience when I
urge you to set your mind on the attainment
of something outside yourself

Some knowledge, ya mean — some laming?
I'm thinking' on it always, night an'
day.'

Then no greater earthly gift could have
been given to you than a desire like that. I
knows what I am saying. I have tried to
influence others to the same end ; but I have
failed for the most part because I could not
put into other minds, other hearts, the spring
that moves my own — the mainspring of desire.
, . This great blessing you possess, however
you may have come by it, I perceive that j^ou
have it ; and to any man who can see as I see,
who is looking out over the dreary waste of
Imman life as I am looking to discern one
human soul like yours, truly hungering and
thirsting for something more than mere bread
and shelter, is, believe me, to see a sight to
encourage one — to make one glad. Nothing
could give me greater pleasure than to ])e
allowed to help you. It would take the dreariness

from my evenings while I am here as few
other things could do. Please say that you
consent.'

Bab was watching him, gravely, wonderingly.
There was a quiver at the corner of
her mouth — a light in her blue earnest
eyes.

^ Do I take ya rightly ?' she said, speaking
as if with difficulty. ' You would be willing'
to larn me something yourself' T

Yes — more than merely willing.'

An ya think I could larn?'

I am quite sure of it : quite sure that you
could learn everything that it is necessary for
you to know.'

Bab remained silent, and Damian turned
away, searching among the pebbles at his feet
for the belemnites so frequently found on the
beach at Ulvstan. He would give her time to
think of his proposal.

But by-and-by he was startled by the sound
of a sob ; one deep, half restrained burst of
emotion. He turned to where the girl was
standing, little Ailsie by her side. The child
was clinging to her, lifting a pale beseeching
face.

Don't cry, Barbie; don't cry! What's he
done to ya ? What's he said ?'

It's noiin Mm 'at's made me cry, honey,'
Bab answered, taking the little one in her
arms, kissing her to hide her own emotion.
It's noiin him! . . . He's kind an' good; an'
we nun be kind to him if we can. But we
can't; that's the worst of been' poor. There's
nought you can do for nobody to show 'em
how ya care.'

There are various ways of showing,' said
the artist. ' And since you feel that you
would be glad to do some good turn for me,
please believe I am equally glad to do something
for you. But we mustn't stop at words;
and since I may not stay here very long, we
must waste no time. How much time can you
give me? A very clever man once said that
an hour a day, regularly given, would enable
a student to climb almost any particular
mountain of knowledge he might wish to
climb. Can you give me that — a whole hour
daily?'

Ay, an' more,' replied Bab eagerly, wiping
some tears away with the corner of her apron.
^ There's four-an'-twenty hours in a daily ;

an' I'm never i' bed more nor live on 'em.
. . But you've yer oitn work to think on,'

So I have ; but I seldom work more than
four hours a day. My eyes grow less sensitive
to colour after that; and for conscience' sake I
desist. So don't think of me. I have idle
time enough — time that I shall be glad to
spend in a manner that will bring me more
gratification than all the art-work I shall
accomplish in my lifetime.'

Doesn't yer work give ya no pleasure?'
It doesn't give me the pleasure I long for,
the pleasure of being in any sense satisfied
with what 1 do.'

Still ya go on trying ?'
Always trying, always hoping.'
Then mebbe ye'll come to it at last ! . . .
I hope ya will, for you've been sa good tome.'


You will let me be good ? You will let
me come in the evenings for an hour, shall I
say seven to eight? Would that be a suitable
time?'

It would be suitable anufi^/ said Bab, again
changing colour, and speaking with some indecision.
* But couldn't I spare you the

trouble o' coming'? Couldn't I come to Mrs.
Featherstone's ?'

1^0,' the artist replied. ' It would be
better that I should come to your grandfather's
house. Is he at home in the evenings
?'

Yes : alius. But he'd not be i' the \Yaay.
He smokes his pipe, an' dozes till bedtime
without much talking.'

Then I'll come to-night, if I may. And
you will forgive me for the mistake of this
morning?'

Bab smiled, — not the scornful smile she was
so apt to use.

Forgive !' she said. ' Av, an' forget an'
all'

A"ou won't forget to come down to the
rocks again tomorrow?'

Xo, — an' I'll not forget 'at you like us best
i' the every-day wear. . . . Come, Ailsie!
Say good-bye to the gentleman. We nun be
going' home. Grandfather '11 be wanting' his tea
badly!'

AT OliMSTOX :\rAGXA.

To man propose this test —
Thy body at its best,
How far can that project thy soul on its lone way ?'

Robert Browning.

It is strange how, in some lives — lives that
seem fair, pure, peaceful — any true, and high,
and perfectly spiritual aspiration is yet a rare
thiniJC. The outside world looks on, seehw a
man or woman whose life is without spot or
stain; whose name is on every list of names
charitable ; whose place in church is never
empty ; whose whole demeanour tells of a careful
walk, with uprightness in every sense of
the term. And that outside world is not mistaken
; it seldom is. Hypocrisy may remain
practically undetected ; it never passes altogether
without suspicion.

And yet even that outwardly stainless, and
inwardly true human being may be aware of a
lowness, a deadness, that is almost as bad to
bear as any consciousness of actual sin could
be. Thorhilda Theyn was a woman of too
high nature to permit of much deadness of
spirit without self-protest. Hitherto her inner
life had consisted largely of a kind of mild war-fire,
with more of compromise in it than she
cared to perceive except on the occasions when
she was compelled to be honest with her own
soul. And these were perturbed times; for she
did not spare herself Any other person, knowing
her whole life, would have set down much
to the exaggeration natural to an imaginative

00 o

woman.

The heart knows its own bitterness, and the
soul knows its own failure; and few could
have felt more acutely than did Miss Theyn
that her life was below her own highest
standard.

And she had no real excuse — this she
knew.

I have no cares,' she had admitted to
herself ; ' my mind is not distracted by the
need of fighting for bread. I have no doubts ;

God has mercifully given me a soul, a mind,
that can accept His every saying without
question. I have no hindrances to bar me
from the spiritual life, none but such as are
within myself, (jroiciiui, increasing within myself!


T aw, too miicli at ease ! Trouble mio-ht stir

o

me; and yet, how I shrink from it, even from
the idea of it !

If I had to live Gertrude's life, for instance,
I think I should not care for another year of
existence. These surroundings are so much
to me ; the ease, the comfort, the never
having to move from my sofa or easy-chair,
not so much as to write a note unless it is
one I wish to write : the warmth and softness
of everything, the very fire in my bedroom
night and morning for nine months of
the year ; the fact of having a carriage at
command morn, noon, and night ; the knowledge
that no wish of mine for food or dress,
or for any of the little luxuries of daily life, is
ever disregarded or forgotten, all these things
are as the air I breathe. I have never once
thought of them definitely till now; but now
I know that I could not exist without them.

I fear that the smallest deprivation would be
intolerable.'

All these things Miss Theyn had admitted
to herself, and not without self-blame, on the
evening before the garden-party at Ormston
Magna. The party of the year it was to be,
so everybody was saying ; and Thorhilda was
not without suspicion that it was being given
With a definite end in view, an end that concerned
herself. She would be made to perceive
more clearly than ever before Percival Meredith's
ability to gather about him, in his own
home, whatever of rank or fashion the neighbourhood
contained.

There were several county families within a
certain radius of miles. Lord Hermeston, of
Herraeston Peel, had accepted the invitation.
Lady Thelton and her four honourable
daughters were coming. Sir Robert and Lady
Bennington were expected; with squires and
dames of all degrees; and people not distinguished
in any particular way had been invited
in numbers sufficient to almost fill the terraces
and gardens of Ormston.

Both Canon Godfrey and his wife were of
opinion that the day was meant to have a

special influence upon their niece's decision;
and Mrs. Godfrey did not for a moment doubt
what that decision would be. From the first
she had thrown all the weight of her own conviction
into the scale on the side of the owner
of Ormston ; and believed that she had not
done so in vain, but her husband had very
jLi'reatly questioned as to whether the matter
was so entirely a foregone conclusion as Mrs.
Godfrey appeared to think.

It would soon be seen, however. The eventful
day — a day in early August — broke brightly
upon the earth. Xot a cloud threatened. The
far, still sea was shining, studded with the
silvery rippling lights that seem to glitter like
stars upon a sapphire floor.

All the morning Thorhilda walked about the
Eectory gardens, an unread book in her hand;
cool, sweet-scented airs upon her forehead; perturbing
thoughts in her heart — so perturbing
they were that she was glad to see Gertrude
Douglas come smiling down between the
standard roses, the great blue lark spurs, and
the golden lilies.

Gertrude was beautifully dressed in primrose
cashmere and purple plush. Even Miss

Theyn did not know that the costume was
a present from her Aunt Milicent to Miss
Douglas. Mrs. Godfrey was not a woman
who liked to do such things as that with
ostentation.

Let it be between ourselves, dear she
had said to Gertrude. * For after all it is a
selfish sort of gift. I do so like to see my
friends well-dressed. And Thorhilda really
cares so very little that I often feel quite
troubled.*

That had all been said a fortnight ago; but
Miss Douglas had not forgotten it. She came
gliding down to the west arbour, conscious of
beauty, of a certain indefinable fascination
which was neither of the heart nor of the intellect,
and yet had force to impress others.
There were moments when Thorhilda half-resented
an impressiveness which she could
not comprehend.

Not dressed yet ! Why, my dear /' Miss
Douglas exclaimed in her high-pitched, yet
most musical voice, coming forward to bestow
an eager kiss as she spoke. * What time do
we start? Four! Isn't that late considering
the length of the drive? And, why, what's

VOL. I. 13

the matter? You look quite doleful! And
on this dii}^ of all days of the year ! Well, you
do surprise me ! If such a party had been
given in my honour, I should have been dressed
hours beforehand, and rehearsing my part in a
darkened room, so as to concentrate all my
faculties.'

Thorhilda returned her friend's kiss with
a certain emphatic quietness ; and not wishing
to discuss the matter alluded to, she did
not disclaim Gertrude's idea as to the intention
of the gathering at Ormston Magna.

'A rehearsal in a darkened room ?' she
said, by way of reply. ' That does remind
me of poor Aunt Averil, who, for years past,
has tried to induce me to give an hour a day
to the study of manners. She has a little
morocco-bound book, with tinted paper and
gilt title, in which she has written an entire
code of good manners, with extracts from
every book she has ever read bearing at all
upon the subject. A fresh acquisition is
read out to me each time I go to the Grange.
The time before last it was a quotation from
'' Lothair," to the effect that repose was of
the essence of beauty ; I forget the exact

words. Last time the quotation was from
Lord Lytton, and urged the larger duty of
trying to enter into other people's views,
other people's ways of thinking. It was
something like this :

•• Few there were for whom Harley Estrange had not
appropriate attraction. Distinguished reputation as soldier
and scholar for the grave ; whim and pleasantry for the gay ;
novelty for the sated ; and for more vulgar natures was he
not Lord Estrange ?" '

And your Aunt Averil keeps a hook of
that kind ?' said Miss. Douglas, with such
regard in her mention as she had never shown
toward Miss Chalgrove before. ' I do hope
she will leave it to you.'

Thorhilda could not help the smile that
came — a smile of many meanings. In reply,
she said :

I told Uncle Hugh of our conversation
when I came home. He, too, was amused
at first. Then he opened a New Testament
that was lying near, and for a little while he
seemed to be reading, or thinking. Then it
was as if he spoke to himself rather than tome
; his utterance was disjointed, like one
speaking in his sleep :

13—2

" There is nothing new under the sun,"
he said, rising from his chair and walking to
and fro slowly in the dim light that was at
the farther end of the drawing-room ; his
hands, still holding the Testament, were
crossed behind him, his head was bowed
thoughtfully, his voice came sweet and pure
and earnest.

" No, there is nothing new," he continued.
The finest refinement of manners cannot go
beyond St. Paul — except in one direction
only — the manners of his Master. But to
remain below these, on the merest human
level, has it not all been said, all that your
essayists and novelists and poetical critics of
life can bring forward as to the essence of
the matter ? You are not to think of, you
are to sacrifice self? — that was said long ago!
You are to be all things to all men ! St.
Paul said, ' I made myself a servant unto
all'"

And then he went much further, into
greater and finer detail. " Only for a moment,"
he said — "just for one moment,
change St. Paul's word ' charity' and substitute
' fine manners !'

'fine manners are kind ; they envy not,
they vaunt not ; those who have them are
not puffed up.

" Fine manners behave in no unseemly
Away ; the man who is happy enough to
possess them does not seek his own. He is
not easily provoked. He is not capable of
thinking evil.

" He rejoices not in iniquity — no, nor even
in hearing of it. His greatest joy is to hear
of the good and the true.

" Moreover, the man of fine manners can
bear all his sorrows, his trials, in the dignity
of silence. If even he should have to bear
upon his heart and brain the weight of the
Avrong-doing of others, he can yet bear without
complaint.

'' And the secret of all this is simple
in the extreme. ' He believes all things.'
Believing, he can endure in calmness, in

joy.

" And yet another event, his fine manners
never fail.' Other things may fail, and
cease, and vanish away ; but the man or
woman who shall use as his or her pocketbook
of etiquette the thirteenth chapter of

the First Corinthians shall not be found wanting.


" The man or woman nurtured, trained
on the teaching of the New Testament alone,
shall be at a loss in no good society. The
rules are there ; the disposition to obey the
rules is innate. The lowest saint, the
humblest follower of Jesus, shall shine in
the highest human society that this or any
other land can produce." '

So the Canon had spoken one evening, not
long before the eventful day to be recorded.
And Thorhilda reproduced his words as
closely as her memory permitted. Becoming
aware that her complacent friend was growing
restless, she desisted.

After all the preparations that had been
made, it was yet late when the Rectory party'
started — four of them in Mrs. Godfrey's
pretty light brougham, the remainder in the
waggonette. On arriving they saw at once
that the lawns and seaward terraces were
tilled with guests. A band was playing in
the shadow of the north end of the house ;
tennis-courts had been marked ; a long white
tent sheltered the refreshments that were

being dispensed by numerous servants, male
and female. In the paddock, on the southward
side of the house, targets had been setup
for archery ; but since the Market Hamburgh
club was of recent date, no one
expected much entertainment from the efforts
of its members — and, indeed, just now it was
too hot for exertion of any kind. Mrs.
]meredith came forward to greet the Rectory
party under the shelter of a rose-pink parasol ;
her son Percival was by her side, ready to
take Thorhilda's, hand as she stepped from
the carriage, and yet not forgetful of Mrs.
Godfrey or Miss Douglas. No one could
find a flaw in his courtesy, now or ever ;
but he at once made it evident to everyone
that his especial attention that day was to be
devoted to Miss Theyn. He had reason
enough for being proud of his position. He
remained by her side as she shook hands
with this group of distinguished guests, and
with that, and his approbation of her graceful,
reserved courteousness increased at every step.
He noted her perfect ease of manner, her unconscious
dignity, her rare and exquisite
loveliness, with all the pride of one anticipating

the further pride of possession. x\ll
through the afternoon he remained near her,
moving with her through the gay crowd,
sitting a little apart with her under the shade
of the wide beech trees listening to the band,
watching the tennis-players, pointing out to
her his rarest and most perfect flowers, waiting
upon her lightest word, and doing all
with the quiet, eager intention that alone
might have betrayed how it was with him.
People looked at each other with the look of
half amused intelligence natural at such times;
some whispered, some even ventured on a
question to Mrs. Meredith, whose pretty
gray silk dress seemed to be shining everywhere.


'Is it all fixed ? Mayn't we know ?'
asked Lady Thelton, who was the most
intimate of the friends present at Preston.


But ]airs. Meredith put up her little white
hand deprecatingly.

Oh, hush!' she said. ' I am superstitious.
I never talk of a thing until it is beyond the
possibility of failure.'

You superstitious 1' laughed Lady Thelton.

Oh, my dear, what will you accuse yourself
of next ? But I see ; I am to be discreet !
Well, give me time to' thmk of a wedding-present
worth sending.'

Was Thorhilda conscious of all the wonder -
kings, the surprising that were going on about
her ? She hardly knew. She seemed to herself
to be more perturbed than happy ; more
bewildered than content. And yet as the
hours went on, swiftly, dreamily, she knew
that she was yielding, yielding half against
]her wish to the overpowering influence of the
emotion that was subduing another so completely
that its force, like an electric touch,
was communicated to herself. Outwardly as
calm, as strong, as dignified as ever, inwardly
she felt helpless ; and she could make no
protest when she knew that she was being
gradually and designedly separated from the
crowd — drawn by a glance, or less, to a
solitary nook between the hillsides, and
beyond the gardens, a copse filled with a
tangled undergrowth, through which a little
beck went trickling and singing down to the
sea. Before she knew it, they were alone —
she and Percival Meredith ; alone and silent

SO silent that the note of a bird seemed
loud and intrusive, and the gurgling of the
water some want of deference on nature's
dart. For a long while there was no other
sound.

UNDER THE LARCHES.

A vague unrest
And a nameless longing filled her breast —
A wish that she hardly dared to own,
For something better than she had known.'

J. G. Whittier.

Percival Meredith was a man who had
sufficient assurance for all the ordinary purposes
of life, but he was well enough aware
that the present moment was in no sense an
ordinary one. Yet he wondered a little at
the strength of the emotion that was besetting
him ; it was new and strange. Though
he had known love before, or something that
he had counted for love, he had never till
now felt this almost hesitancy that held him
in its grasp. It was not till he had made the
effort of recalling the facts that Mrs. Godfrey
had o-iven him all the encouragement that a

woman in her position could give ; that the
Canon had shown him a kindly welcome at
all times, whilst Miss Theyn herself had
never exhibited the faintest distaste, or seemed
other than pleased by his presence — it was
not till he had recollected these things With
some viwur that he beo^an to re^i^ain the
standpoint natural to him. Even now it was
not easy, and Thorhilda was not making anything
easier for him.

She stood leaning: against the trunk of a
young larch-tree, straight and white and
still, even a little sad now, if her expression
were any true index of her feeling, and yet
to Percival Meredith's thinking she had never
looked more beautiful. Her white cashmere
dress fell into graceful folds, and mingled
with soft, creamy lace and hooping and floating
of ribbon and bordering of plush. The
only ornament she wore was a Niphetos rose,
which he himself had gathered for her and
given to her earlier in the afternoon.

It was good of you to wear my rose,' he
said at last, speaking in a low voice, and lifting
his long dark eyelashes in a certain languid
yet effective way peculiarly his own. 

blushed under his gaze, but faintly, and
with as much consciousness of disturbance as
of pleasure, yet the beautiful soft, sea shell
pink made her seem lovelier than ever in his
sight, and, half unconsciously, he drew a little
nearer to her side.

But all you do is good and kind,' he continued.
' It is that gives me hope, and that
only. Though I have watched you, tried to
make myself something to you, some part of
your life, these two years past, I must admit
that I have yet no assurance. One moment,
nay, perhaps for a whole evening, I have felt
more or less happy, because I fancied you had
given me more or less ground for hoping that
you were beginning to care for me. Then,
perhaps the very next evening, you have
taken the ground from under my feet. Can
you wonder that I have often known something
like despair? That for a long time past
I have felt as if I must know what the end
was to be — whether I was to hope for a whole
long life of happiness, or for a life of something
more nearly like misery than I dared to
think Lately the suspense has been
growing terribly. Can you not imagine it ?

Can you not sympathize with it — at least so far
as to say that I may hope that you will soon
put an end to it-the end 1 yearn for ? . . .
You can never, never destroy my one earthly
hope !'

While Percival was speaking, naturally'
enough Thorhilda was thinking, thinking-rapid
ly, feeling intensely, as people do when
the heart and brain are raised to their highest
and swiftest power by the rush of the fresh
force of life through vein and nerve. And
here she found the good of much previous
right thought, high desire, and frequent
prayer. Even in this impetuous moment she
said to herself, ' I cannot have lived under the
same roof with my uncle Hugh for nothing,
and surely now, if ever, I must strive to seethe
right. . . . Would that I had openly
asked him about this before, talked it over
with him ! . . . I must do it, I must do it yet
before I give any definite answer. . . . Yes,
I must request time for that !'

Not once did it occur to her — how should
it, in her youth, her inexperience of love, life,
all things ? — that a perfect affection, perfect
within itself, would have needed no outward

constraint, no external drawing or pressure,
no help of any kind.

But meantime, while she was thinking,
Percival Meredith was moved to pouring out
a very rhapsody of loving, pleading words,
less reconsidered than those he had used
before. Thorhilda had not dreamed that he
could be so eloquent, so impressive, so fervent !
It was her perception of this latter quality that
drew her to be real also.

I did not know, indeed I did not, that you
cared for me so much,' Thorhilda replied with
timid simplicity, trembling, blushing, feeling
so faint under the weight of new and strong
emotion, that she longed to lean upon the
strength of the man who seemed so all-sufficient
for her support, then and after.
What was it restrained her ? She could not
do it. Despite her weakness, her almost
yearning and tender weakness, she shrank
from self-betrayal. ' I cannot answer,' she said
at last. ' I cannot give you any answer now I'

She stopped. Percival took her hand, holding
it gently, as one who would quiet the fear
betrayed. It was some time before he began
to plead again.

'not one icordT he said at last, ^ not one
single words It is all I ask. . . . And, no, I
will not ask even that, if it is to cost you so
much. How could I ask anything from you
but that you should not forbid me to wait ?
I will wait as long as you msh, only do not
say that I may not hope. At least, at the
very least, say that I may hope that you will
be good to me some day ! . . . I wish you
knew how I long to be something to you, to be
in a position to — to save you from anything
that might happen in the future. . . . And —
and we none of us know !'

Thorhilda was only half-aware of the sadden
restraint that came over Percival Meredith.
Of the reason for it, for the sudden drooping
of the eyes, the unexpected failure of the words
of the man she was, or seemed to be, on the
verge of loving with her whole life's love, she
knew nothing.

How should she know ? There had been
whispers abroad of the Canon's unrestrained
and unconsidered generosity; of family claims,
the claims of younger brothers, with their
wives and little ones ; poor, unenterprising,
clamorous ; but of all this Thorhilda had

known nothings and therefore had thought
nothing. Once or twice it had struck her
as a little strange that her Aunt Milicent
should seem to be so emphatically on the
side of early marriages. ' I might have
thought she wished me to leave her,' 
had said to herself more than once in
moments of perplexity ; but no such ungracious
and ungrateful ideas had remained
with her permanently. And no thought of
this kind had anv weight with her now. She
was only conscious of a strong desire to avoid
the utterance of anything that should seem to
be binding upon her afterward.

And yet, even in this troubled moment,
she felt that she must some time yield.
Half she feared that she would do this, and
half she hoped that she might be compelled
by some circumstance outside herself to do it.

But even now she did not recognise the fact
that no hesitation ought to have been possible
to her — no, not for a moment. A true and
healthy human love knows no more of hesitation
as to whether it shall betray itself, than a
healthy human life knows of hesitation as to
whether it shall go on living. If a test were

VOL. I. IJ:

wanting, here is one ready-made for most
uses.

But Miss Theyn was fully conscious of her
perplexity ; and, as was natural to her upright
spirit, she confessed it.

I cannot, I cannot understand it,' Percival
Meredith said in reply ; speaking with a new
and moving humility, that was yet not untempered
with self-respect. ' I cannot understand.
You either care for me, or you do
not! . . . Yet forgive me! As I said just
now, I am most willing to wait, only, only
tell me why I must wait ? Will you not tell
me that ?'

A moment Thorhilda was silent. Then all
at once, as it were, her spirit broke from the
bewilderment that had held her as in a trance
all the afternoon. She lifted her face, raised
her beautiful gray eyes, which were deeply
charged with all earnestness, all sincerity.

I will answer you plainly,' she said, speaking
with far less of trepidation in her manner
than she felt within herself. ' I will tell you
the truth so far as I can. And the first thing
I must say is that I have no doubt of your
affection for me. . . '

Then thank you for that, a thousand times
thank you !' Percival broke in with fervidness,
and raising Thorhilda's hand to his lips gracefully
as he spoke. ' Again and again I thank
you for your faith in me. . . . But having
admitted so much, what can hinder you now ?
Xot your want of love for me. Once more I
say that I will wait for that. I will try to
win that ! With all my heart I will try ! . . .
And what is there beside ? — nothing, surely
nothing.'

What was there in all this ready protestation
that seemed, if not unreal, yet still in
some curious way unsatisfactory ? Was it the
way of men ? of lovers ? The inquiries that
Thorhilda put to herself were utterly childlike
in their ignorance, their confusion. She had
had no lover before, nor any dream of love.
How should she know ?

Yet she replied gravely, and with an altogether
womanly dignity.

There is much beside,' she said, and then
there was a pause while she made an effort to
continue. ' If I am sure of you, or of your
affection rather, I am not sure of myself, not
in any way. / am fearing myself ; my own

14—2

integrity; and I think that you should know
of this!'

Your integrity — yours /' exclaimed Percival,
feeling at least as much surprised ashe
seemed. ' AVhat can you mean ? I should
as soon doubt the integrity of an angel from
heaven.'

I mean this,' Thorhilda said, her breath
coming and going heavily, her eyes set Tvith a
seeming hardness in the expression of them, as
if the effort after a perfect straightforwardness
were testing' her strength to the utmost limit.
^ I mean this, that I am not sure that I return
sour affection, or that I ever can return it as
it should be returned. I fear much that I
never can. And, let me speak the truth in all
sincerity, I hioiv that I am tempted by your
position, by the prospect you have to offer me
the prospect of ease, of wealth, of unlimited
luxury for all my future life. I have been used
to these things, though they are not mine by
birthright ; and now it seems to me that I
could not well live without them. . , . And,
Tis I fancied you suggested just now, I may not
be able to live at the Rectory always. . . . And
there is nowhere else— nowhere,'

The silence, the utter silence that followed,
was not one to be forgotten. For some moments
Percival Meredith could make no reply;
and yet he hardly knew what it was that
hindered him so powerfully, so completely.

In his own heart he had long ago admitted
to himself that in all probability worldly considerations
would have some influence with
Miss Theyn, more with her friends ; and the
idea had not hurt him grievously.

Xow he was conscious of pain, of disappointment,
of disillusionment ; and though he
could not analyse his feeling, he was aware
that he stood as one watching the visible
shattering of some idol he had set up to
worship ; and being not greatly given to
such worshipping, the loss seemed all the
greater.

Miss Theyn began to perceive in a slight
degree.

1 have grieved you,' she said sorrowfully,
gently. ' Forgive me. I thought it better to
be honest, quite honest.'

Yes,' Percival replied musingly. ' Yes,
perhaps it was. And yet, I wish you had
spared me !'

Ao-ain there was silence. Somewhere beyond
the distant purple of the treetops the
sun was sinking to the moor ; twilight was
stealing into the hollow ; the rippling of the
streamlet seemed to sink to a sadder, a less
living tone.

Let us forget this,' Percival said at last.
You have not said that you could not care forme
; and I think 3'ou will learn to care at least
for my kindness, my love — the rest will come.
I do hope and believe that it will come. 1
trust the future.'

The rest !' It had never been so near
coming as it was at that moment. Percival
Meredith, a little saddened, a little hopeful,
and subdued to a new humility, was very different
from the self-assured man who had put
aside every thought of failure, and had not
been able, for all his diplomacy, to quite hide
the fact that he had done so. Now he had
nothing to hide ; and it may have been that
one more kindly and earnest appeal would
have been answered to his wish. But that
appeal was not made ; and it may be admitted
that there was reason enough why it should
not. He was hurt, and reasonably, and one

sign of it was the touch of petulance about his
small, restrained mouth ; another sign was the
want of perseverance at the one significant
moment.

I will go on hoping,' he said, turning to
go, and cleaving a way through the briars for
Miss Theyn to pass. ' And you will be good
to me ; say that you will ?'

Thorhilda smiled.

Haven't I always been good ?' she said,
holding out her hand timidly, half reluctantly.

^ Yes ; indeed you have !' Percival replied.
As I said before, that was the only excuse I
had for my presumption.'

THE Canon And HIS Niece.

To thine own self be true ;
And it shall follow, as the night the dav,
Thou canst not then be false to any man,'

Miss Theyn was not quite trappy that evening
how should she be ? She was confused herself
; circumstance was confusing ; and there
seemed no light — no help anywhere. On the
way home from Ormston Magna, Gertrude
Douglas indulged in a little mild badinage,
which was quickly repressed. The Canon was
thoughtful, absorbed. When Mrs. Godfrey
came to know, from the lips of Percival
Meredith himself, that Thorhilda's answer had
been vague, and not altogether encouraging,
an unusual but most visible flush of ano^er
mounted to her forehead, and remained there.
Thorhilda saw and understood ; and having
hitherto seen so Httle of any unquiet side

there might be to her aunt's character, the
sight added to her perplexity.

It was some time before the two women
spoke to each other of the great event of the
day ; and then nothing passed that was helpful
in any way. Mrs. Godfrey knew more than
Thorhilda knew of the reasons why Percival
Meredith's offer should have been graciously
accepted, and she was too much a woman of
the world not to prize to the uttermost the
advantages that Thorda seemed quite willing,
and quite unthinkingly, to forego for very indifference.
This Alas how the matter seemed
to the Canon's wife ; the Canon himself saw
much farther.

Surely you would not force her inclination
in any way ?' he had said, after listening to
the torrent of words his wife had poured out
in his ear while they were dressing for dinner,
the door between their rooms being open for
this especial purpose; and Mrs. Godfrey's
reply was one that he could only meet with a
pained silence. Yet he was by no means insensible
to the worldly advantages offered to
his niece — nay, for reasons known in all their
seriousness only to himself, he would have

been at least as glad as his wife had been if
Thorhilda had chosen to accept without demur
the offer of the owner of Ormston Magna.
Yet that she should be even by one word
persuaded, was repugnant to every notion of
honour that he had.

Later in the evening, seizing a brief opportunity,
he could not but speak to the girl,
whose white, and lovely, and lonely face
seemed to be appealing to all the tenderness,
all the manliness he had in his soul.

Tell me about it, Thorax he said, laying
a gentle kindly hand upon his niece's shoulder
as she sat musing sadly by the drawing-room
fire. Mrs. Godfrey had retired early, being
wearied with the inquietude of her own
spirit, and of the day's event. ' Tell me
about it,' he said. * I know the outside
facts. You could not say " Yes," not conscientiously.'


No, I could not,' Thorhilda said, letting a
single sob escape in spite of all repression. A
weaker woman as much perturbed, as much
excited, would have answered with a burst of
tears. * No ; that is just it. But to tell the
truth I can hardly say where the conscientiousness

lies. I am afraid of being dishonest
dishonest toward him or with myself.'

You have never at any time felt that
your mind was made up at all on this
matter?'

No ; not for more than ^yq minutes together.
. Shall I tell you the truth, Uncle
Hugh — all the truth ? I should like to be
mistress of Ormston Magna — I should like it
much. In one sense it seems the very place
in the world made for me to fill.'

That is just how it has seemed to me,' replied
the Canon. ' You have every quality
that would be required — every grace. . . .
And I had hoped long ago that it might come
to pass. But my hope has limitations. Now,
tell me the rest !'

There is no rest! I like Mr. Meredith, as
you know ; but not, I think, with the liking I
ought to have before I can accept the position
he wishes me to fill. . He says that this is
but natural ; but just what he expected ; and
that all the rest weill come. It is here that my
trouble lies. As you know, I have hardly
known — hardly ever seen anyone else. And
at one time I am drawn to him ; at another

time almost repelled, without any reason for
either. . I cannot understand !'

The Canon was watching, listening ; his inmost
heart was lifted up for the One light, the
One strength, the One guidance that could
come to him.

Have you no word for me, Uncle Hugh —
no help .^' And as Thorhilda spoke she laid
her white, beseeching hand gently upon his
arm. ' I am no heroine,' she said. ' I want
to do right, but I have not even self-knowledge
enough to enable me to know what is right.
Can't you help me ? . I have never needed
help so much before.'

The unintended touch of pathos in her
voice moved the Canon greatly. He turned
to Thorhilda with all the warmth of one to
whom the unrealized idea of fatherhood was
inexpressibly dear.

I will help you all I can,' he said soothingly.
'• I have been blind myself — at least it
seems so to me now. And let me say, whilst
I have opportunity, that I have not done all
for you that I should have done. I could not.
I had other claims, hidden from the world's
sight, for the most j^art, but binding to the

uttermost. Your claim was bindings also ;
I knew that all the while. I am realizing
rather bitterly now. And it may be too late ;
I cannot tell ! And I fear — I fear much that
I counted on your making such a marriage as
would quiet all my care for you, at once and
for ever. Therefore you see how it is that I
cannot urge you to think more favourably of
Percival Meredith than your own inclination
moves you to do. Under other circumstances
I might have pointed out to you much that is
good in him, and also the possibility of your
influence heightening the good qualities he
already has. As matters stand I cannot do
this — not without suspecting myself And,
indeed, at present I can advise nothing but
waiting — prayerful waiting. . . . Try that,
Thorda, dear — prayer. There is no other
help for this human world. And when light
comes, he true to it! That is all that I can
say. Be true to the light given, wherever
it may lead !'

THAT WAS THE DAY WE LOVED, THE DAY WE
MET.

The love which soonest responds to love — even what we
call " love-at-first-sight " — is the surest love ; and for this
reason — that it does not depend upon any one merit or
quality, but embraces in its view the whole being. That is
the love which is likely to last — incomprehensible, indefinable,
unarguable-about.'— Sit Arthur Helps : Brevia.

There was no one to counsel, to strengthen
Barbara Burdas. If she stood up straight and
strong, she stood somewhat apart from those
who surrounded her more immediately. And
it said as much for their human insight as for
her tact that no one seemed to resent her
position. If any did a kindly thing for her,
the doer knew certainly that in his or her
place Bab would have done as much or more.
It is so that many of us accept kindnesses
which unsupported pride might rise up to

reject. We take them as they are meant,
knowing that our own meaning would have
led us to the same outward expression. ' You
shall do this for me if you will, because in
your position I should have wished to do the
same for you So we reply to ourselves when
a false dignity with all its suspiciousness would
spoil the moment.

All her life Bab's place among her fellows
had been an easy one. She had been admired
without jealousy, commended without bitterness,
respected without undertone of detraction.
Even when her pride, her independence
offended, her large kindliness of heart made
quick atonement.

So it was that no one resented the fact that
she had been chosen by the artist to be the
principal figure of his great picture, ' The
Resting-place of the Whither-pickers.' Bab
was to be in the foreground, just rising up
from a brief rest, her basket of limpets on
her head, Ailsie clinging by her side, and
bearing her little basketful of bait. Half-a-dozen
others were to be seated upon the rocks
and stones of the mid-distance.

Miss Theyn had heard of the picture,

though, as a rule, she heard little of anything
concerning the fisher-folk of the Bight.
She might have known quite as much of their
innermost life had she lived at York or at
Lancaster. It is the stranger who is curious
and interested where the resident is indifferent
and supine.

It was on the morrow after that unsatisfactory
hour at Ormston Magna that Miss
Theyn went down to Ulvstan to do some
shopping for Mrs. Godfrey, and to make one
or two calls in her aunt's name on some of
the more prominent parishioners. At Mrs.
Squire's, the milliner's shop, she had been so
unfortunate as to meet her Aunt Katherine,
and though this was only for one moment,
sirs. Kerne had seized the opportunity of
making the moment as bitter as might be.
Thorhilda bore the small unmerited sneers
with outward calmness, but with more of
inward irritation than she was accustomed to
feel — an irritation that added to the things
she was already bearing. When the morning's
work was done she dismissed the carriage.
• Wait for me at the Cross Roads,' she said to
Woodward. 'I shall not be honos.' Then

turning clown the steep street that led to the
beach and to the ForeclifF, she half-admitted
to herself that she was in search of some distraction
that had no name.

Where am I going, and why?' she asked
vaguely, not demanding any answer from
herself It seemed as if the blueness of the
sapphire sea alone had power to urge her
onward, as if the soothing sound of the wavelets
falling and breaking upon the beach alone
could impel her to watch, to listen, to pause
upon the brink of that river of life upon
Which she stood. Lie seemed to be filled
with a strange hopefulness as she went onward
over the beach, threading her way
daintily among the tangle-covered stones on
either hand. As she went onward, the sea-breezes
blowing upon her face, the shrill
cry of the gulls in her ear, she seemed to
lose the tremulous sense of the painfulness of
human life that had held her so strongly
before. A new warmth grew about her heart,
a new peacefulness, which made all the future
seem plain and easy. Mere physical movement
seemed a delightful and pleasant thing.
Was it the sunshine that inspired her and
VOL. I. 15

allured her? She went slowly by the edge
of the wavelets that rounded the sparkling
sea, which was retreating for awhile from
the Bight of Ulvstan, moving gracefully, as
to some rhythm, unheard and unknown. By-and-by
it would advance again to the singing
of the morning stars, joining its music to
theirs, helping to complete the cosmic harmony.


Thorhilcla's mood was quiet and sweet, yet -
there was yearning in it ; and the smile that
was on her face as lie rounded the point of
Yarva Ness might certainly have been counted
a smile of expectancy. She was looking out
dreamily, half unconsciously, as people sometimes
do who walk alone, and then, quite
suddenly, she became aware that she was not
alone. There was a large white umbrella, an
easel, a wide canvas ; an artist with a big
gray felt sombrero was bending over a palette,
over a sheaf of brushes, making rapid touches,
as he glanced to where Barbara Burdas stood,
with little Ailsie beside her, among the weed-hung
boulders of the Bight. Beyond were
the tall cliffs, half hidden by the yellow
sunshiny mist, that made the scene like the

coast-line of some dreamland or wonderland.
Miss Theyn saw none of these details definitely
as she went onward with a smile
toward Barbara, who stood there, tall, beautiful,
almost as dignified as Miss Theyn herself.
For a moment she forgot all about the artist,
and lifted her creel from her head, without
dreaming that the slight action was one to
move him almost to despair. Yet he stood
by with grave face and courteous attitude,
wondering what his next duty might be. He
was not so free from perturbation as he
seemed. He had forgotten Bab's description,
his own anticipation, yet all at once he knew
himself to be possessed by that flash of feeling
which arouses most of us when at last we
stand in the presence of a long felt-after ideal.
Here at last is the beauty we have tried to
grasp in visions, here is the goodness, here
the grace of soul. Being thus prepared
we fall down and worship, and are at once
the better for that worship.

Rude knew when the pilgrims brought
from the East the accounts of the grace, the
loveliness, the goodness of the Lady of
Tripoli. He listened till he lost himself, lost

15—2

himself utterly in the hope to find another.
But the story of the troubadour having been
told already it may not be repeated here.
Browning's brief poem contains the essence of
the drama, its most vital human meaning.
The man heard and loved, loved so intensely
that when the moment came when sight was
to be vouchsafed to him his strength was not
sufficient for the ordeal ; it had been consumed
by thought, lit by a supreme imagination.
He fell at the feet of the woman
whom he had loved unseen, and he died
there. Ever since men have sneered at his
name, or have grown sadder on hearing
it. A few men, a few women, have understood.


Damian Aldenmede had not the poem in
remembrance at the moment when he turned
to meet the diffident, almost timid glance of
the lady of idiom he had heard so much.
Bab, in her own informal yet unembarrassed
way, was introducing this new Lady or"
Tripoli or of Ulvstan. What's in a name ?
The Rude of the hour stood holding his
brushes and palette in one hand, raising his
gray felt hat with the other, lifting a grave,

unsmiling, austere face, with far-seeing eyes,
that seemed so full of sadness, of some old
hopelessness, that Miss Theyn's one impression
was that of a man acquainted with sorrow,
and with little beside. Later she knew more,
and judged far otherwise.

She was the first to speak.

I fear I have interrupted you,' she said, in
sweet, musical, yet most unaffected tones. ' I
ought not to have stopped, but I could hardly
help it.'

As she ended her speech she glanced first
at the canvas, then at Bab, with undisguised
admiration. Bab was listening to her, wondering
how her words, her voice, her grace,
her beauty would strike this most perceptive
artist, who was now disclaiming all idea of
being interrupted.

• It is good to have a brief rest sometimes
he was saying. * And I am proud that my
picture tempted you to stay and look at it.
I only wish that it had been in a more
attractive stage.'

To me it is very attractive,' Miss Theyn
replied eagerly. ' I have not seen an unfinished
picture half-a-dozen times in my

life. . I find great charm about a canvas
only half-covered.'

Do you paint yourself?'

Xo. I regret to say. I learnt to draw,
as people do learn for whom drawing is
classed with crewel work. sly governess
taught me. I did a drawing every month,
the usual chalk trees, the usual chalk figures.
with the usual river impeded by large stones.
The only variation was in the rains, sometimes
it was a ruined castle, sometimes a
church, sometimes a mill. There was a trick
of touch for each.'

And you learnt the receipt by heart ?'

I learnt it thoroughly. When I had
done so I laid down my porte crayon forever.'


Surely not ? . . . It is not too late to
make ud for lost time.'

Bab, who was listening closely, and with
intense interest, was not aware of the quiet
smile that was creeping unnoticed over her
own face.

Is he always Aventine' to learn somebody
something ?' she asked herself. And truth to
say she had hit rather cleverly upon one of

the singularities of his character. It was not
that he liked teaching in itself, nay, it would
hardly be too much to say that he hated it ;
yet the pleasure of knowing that he had
satisfied another's craving for knowledge, or
even for mere information, was one of the
most satisfactory pleasures remaining to him
in life.

Xot that he was dreaming of offering
lessons in drawing to Miss Theyn ; nor had
Thorhilda's vision progressed so far as yet.
Still she was silent for a moment, and during
that moment she was thinking of the possibility
of taking up an art that would require
time, labour and earnest thought. Then her
future, as it had been placed before her only
yesterday, rose up all at once, making her
feel as one awaking from a pleasant dream
to the dull and chill reality of daily life. The
smile seemed to die from her lips and from
her eyes. Damian Aldenmede, watching her
closely, eagerly, saw, and . . . grievously
misunderstood.

She thinks I am presuming — this dainty
lady. . I will be mindful ! . . . . She
shall think so no more T

Thorhilda replied at last — speaking in quite
another tone.

I am afraid it is too late,' she said, watching
the artist as he began to rearrange his
brushes, to replenish his palette from the
tubes. She discerned the change in him,
the increase of gravity, the power of self-efficient
; and above all she saw the loneliness,
the true heart-loneliness that has outworn
all waiting, all searching, all hoping.
Seeing that he was wishful to begin his work
again, she said a few more words to Bab,
gave a smile and a kiss to Ailsie, and turned
to go.

There was no embarrassment visible in
her manner as she bowed to the artist, saying
gracefully, but not without an undertone of
sadness :

Good-morning, Mr. Aldenmede. Thank
you much for letting me see your picture. I
am sure it will be a very beautiful one.'

Will he ask me to come and see it when
it is done ?' was the question in her own
heart.

Shall I say that I shall be glad if she will
come and see it many times before the finishing

touch is given?' was the question asked on the
other side.

Neither interrogation was uttered aloud,
though perhaps the inward thought did not
stray so very wildly. Miss Theyn went
back over the beach alone, perhaps sadder
than before, and with a strange and utterly
unaccountable sadness. Yet she felt as if all
at once a new restfulness had overshadowed
her.

How quiet he makes one feel !' she said
to herself, speaking as she might have spoken
of one whom she had known for years. ' Is
it the strength in him? the goodness? I am
sure he is good; and I am sure that he is
strong. . . . There is nothing frivolous there I
nothing selfish, nothing idle, nothing that
could even tolerate luxuriousness.' . . . Then
there was a pause — a graver moment. ' And
there is nothing that could savour for one
second of secrecy, of duplicity. If he is
reserved, it is with the reserve of one who
would hide from the world's eyes a sorrow-that
the world could never understand. . . .
If I had a trouble, I could tell it to him ; he
would comprehend, he would alleviate it

somehow. . I wish, I wish he had not been
what he is I'

Even in thought Miss Theyn could not
put any words to her vague ideas of this
stranger's poverty ; she shrank from her own
notion, and felt curiously perplexed. That
one who had a more true distinction of
manner, a more perfect grace of address, a
finer reticence in speech and demeanour than
she had ever seen before — that such a one
should be lodging at Mrs. Featherstone's, a
small, tidy cottage at the back of the Fore-cliff
; that he should seem to be dependent
upon his brush; that he should have come
into the neighbourhood of the east of North
Yorkshire without credentials of any kind,
was assuredly bewildering. Yet Miss Theyn' s
utmost vision did not pass beyond his own
presentment of himself ' Yet I wish — I wish
he had been different,' she repeated half
audibly. ' I know no one whom I should be
so glad to have as a friend. All my life I
shall think of him as the one man between
whom and myself there might have been a
perfect friendship.'

Meanwhile the artist had resumed his

painting with redoubled vigour — working
rapidly, silently, eagerly ; and Bab saw by
the compression about his mouth that he
was in no mood for conversation. It was
not till he had flung down his brushes and
palette and patted Ailsie on the cheek, with
thanks for being so still, giving her a bright
new florin for her very own, that Bab dared
to speak.

There was a touch of humour in her blue
eyes when she raised them.

'Noo — did Ah tell ya wrong?' she asked,
speaking gently and smiling softly. ' Did
Ah saiiy a word overmuch? Have ya ever
in yer whole life seen a lady half so beautiful ?'

Aldenmede did not reply for a moment.
Then, laying his hand gently on little Ailsie's
shoulder, and turning to Bab with his kindliest
voice and accent, he said, using much
emphasis :

Don't misunderstand me, Barbara — indeed,
I feel sure that you will not! . . .
But how shall I say it? how shall I express
what I am thinking — that it will be better
that . . . better if you do not speak to me of
Miss Theyn any more.'

Bab's only answer was a quick, curious,
wondering look. As she went homeward, she
smiled to herself, saying :

^ He'll speak of her to me afore I'll speak of
her to him ! But he'll do that, an* afore long,
or my name's non Barbara Burdas.'

IN Larva Wake.

And we entreat Thee, that all men whom Thou
Hast gifted with great minds may love Thee well,
And praise Thee for their powers, and use them most
Humbly and holily, and, lever-like.
Act but in lifting up the mass of mind
About them.'

P. J. Bailey : Festum.

The summer was passing on — a bright beautiful
summer it was, with now and then a
summer storm by way of variation, tossing
up the white waves into Ulvstan Bight,
scattering the herring-fleet north and south;
now and then a sea-fret, chilling yet stifling,
defrauding the sight as with a temporary
blindness. Yet the actors in the drama of
life, as life was displayed on the stage of
Ulvstan Bight, went on playing their parts
all the same, apparently heedless of storm or
shine. Some were bearing patiently, suffering

silently; some now and then flew out
into mad street brawls, subsiding afterward
to hide their misery, cowering by fires of
shipwreck wood, seeming to cease from
emotion altogether, and only to cling in a
dumb brute-like ay ay to the mere fact of
existence.

Canon Godfrey, going in and out amongst
them, was touched afresh each day by the
endurance he saw. Misery was accepted as a
natural thing, as natural as labour or pain ;
and oft he marvelled to see how such as were
sufferings most seemed best to bear the contrast
that was daily increasing before their
eyes.

It was in the early autumn that the richer
people came to Ulvstan, the people who
brought their own carriages, their own menservants
and maidservants. The resources
of the neighbourhood were taxed to provide
for their wants, or what were counted as
wants ; the little shops grew quite enterprising
in their efforts ; the scene on the beach grew
daily more and more gay. Ladies on horseback
came galloping up and down by the
rippling tide; invalids in chairs and carriages

were drawn to and fro more slowly; little
brown-hoi land children with pails and spades
want paddling in and out of pools and sand-castles;
crimson parasols burned in the yellow
sunshine; pink dresses and blue, white dresses
and red, went flitting about among the bathing-machines;
and the fisher-folk looked on, and
wondered, and did little kindnesses whenever
opportunity came in their way with a curious
and not unbeautiful acceptance of the inevitable.


^ Good God! that one can bear to see it all,
and to think of it !' the Canon said to himself
one morning, as he walked with his wife in
search of Thorhilda, who had gone toward
the ForecliiF with a basket of flowers for
Barbara Burdas, and had not returned to the
place where they had expected her.

She had meant to leave them at the Sagged
House; but she had found the door locked;
and Nan Tyas, passing by at the moment, had
stopped to say :

Is it Bab yare wanting' ? She's non i'
the loose ; she seldom is at this time o'
day.'

There was a pertness in Xan's manner, as

she leaned over the gate and lifted her bold
black eyes, that aroused within the Rector's
niece a touch of something that was almost
indignation.

Thank you !' Miss Theyn replied. ' Perhaps
you know where I may find her?'

'Perhaps!' Nan admitted, evidently resenting
the momentary haughtiness her own
manner had awakened. ' Perhaps Ah do !
Ah'm noiin born' te say, sa far as I understand
the law o' the land !'

Thorhilda's first impulse was to pass onward,
without so much as a civil word of
departure ; but she had force enough to
recover herself. Turning to Xan, who still
stood with her elbow upon the gate-post and
an unplea-ant smile upon her lip, she said
quietly, and with dignity :

Has it so happened that I have offended
you in some way? Have I been so unfortunate
as to displease you, to cross your
will or wish in any direction? Pardon my
questions; but you seem to speak as if you
had some reason for wishing not to oblige
me.'

Nan stared for a moment into the pale,

gentle, yet resolute face before her. The
kindly expression answering her OAvn insolent
one was puzzling. Nan could not
resent it.

Ah don't know as yoitve ever vexed me,'
she said, averting her face slightly, partly in
embarrassment, partly in shame. ' But if Ah
nun tell the truth, you're near snuff akin te
them 'at les.'

Miss Theyn began to understand; and in
spite of effort after self-control the understanding
brought a flush of pain to her
cheek.

I am not quite sure that I know what
you mean,' she replied, speaking in changed
tones, yet still with a kindly and winning
courtesy. ' You will know that I cannot
speak to you of — of others. . If you
cannot tell me where Barbara is, I will say
Good-morning." '

Good-morning,' Nan retorted, lifting herself
from the gate-post and moving away.
But she turned again quickly. Miss Theyn's
word and tone constraining her. ' Ah meant
noa offence,' she said, ' an mebbe Ah'd better
gie ya a word o' warning'. They mean mis-vol.

I. IG

chief — some o' Dave's mates. . . . But, there,
Ah can saaj no more.'

'Stay a moment!' Miss Theyn entreated.
Mischief, you say? To whom? Xot to
Barbara — surely not to her?'

To Bab ? !N^oa, never ! They'll non
harm her! But there's others — there's one
ya know, not so far away by kin. Give
him a word. If he's not a soo], he'll
take it.'

You are meaning my brother?'

Ah never named no names,' Xan replied,
half tremulously, and again turning to depart.
It's well snuff known i' the Bight 'at Dave's
heart's been set upon her for years past ; an'
there's non but what thinks she'd ha' given
in sooner or later if nobody else had come
between. An' they know how it is! They
can see that his heart's just breaking' ; and hers
is non so much at rest. They can see it
all ; an' they've said . . . But, oh me ! What
am Ah coin'? They'd murder me — toss me
over the clifF-edo^e as soon as look at me if
they knew Ah'd betrayed em ! Eh, me, I is
a fool! . . . But you'll non let on, Miss
Theyn?'

Can you not trust me?' Thorhilda asked,
her face alight with gratitude, with sympathy,
with kindness.

Trust you ? Ay, to the death ! But let
ma go noo. Ah can't stay no longer.'

Miss Theyn was left standing there by the
steps of the Sagged House, perplexed, wondering,
irresolute. Then all at once her
mind was made up. She would find Barbara
first, and then go on at once to Garlafi^.
Doubtless the fisher-girl would be on the
Scar somewhere — in all probability at the
point beyond Yarva Ness where the artist
was at work upon his picture. Miss Theyn
could see the white umbrella gleaming even
from the ForecliiF; and at once she began to
make her way thither, though not without
some reluctance — a reluctance she herself
could hardly understand.

She had not seen the artist since that day
when Bab had, in her own simple and unembarrassed
way, introduced him to her. More
than once her uncle had seen him at church,
and subsequently had called upon him at his
lodging; and unfortunately the call had been
returned one afternoon when the whole of

16—2

the Rectory party had gone to Gainsborough.
Naturally, a stranger of such distinguished
presence and bearing had been discussed at
the house on the hill at Yarburgh.

We must see him somehow,' Mrs. Godfrey
had said one evening, not thinking how and
where they were to meet.

It was Barbara who was the first to discern
Miss Theyn's approach. She was standing in
the usual position some two or three yards
away from the artist, her creel on her head,
little Ailsie by her side. Mr. Aldenmede saw
by the sudden change on her face that someone
was coming — some one in whom his
model was interested.

Who is it?' he said, smiling. 'Miss
TheynP

Bab looked at him, and only the word
roguish ' could perfectly describe the meaning
of her glance.

Ah thought that were a name 'at had
been forbidden to be said,' she remarked,
her expression saving her speech from all
touch of temper.

The artist looked up with quick appreciation.
There was no time for words Miss

Theyn's step was upon the gravel behind Mm.
He rose and bowed. Bab saw his colour
change, and the carnation that 'was on Miss
Theyn's face deepened to an almost painful
degree. The words of greeting were curiously
confused.

Thorhilda offered the basket of flowers to
Barbara — rich and rare roses, heliotrope,
stephanotis, sweet verbena, half-buried in
daintiest ferns. Bab took them with an
emotion that betrayed to each of the onlookers
that her soul's sensitiveness to beauty
was not to be measured by any of the outward
circumstances of her life. She turned
away, silent, tremulous, to hide the basket
from the sun within the cave close at
hand.

Miss Theyn was looking at the picture
; Damian Aldenmede was explaining
his further intention concerning it ; while
little Ailsie was resting on his campstool,
her small hand clasped in his. The artist
knew himself to have already a singular
affection for this tiny child of seven, and
that she responded to it helped to fill the
lonely days with a quite new and felicitous

warmth. He was glad that she was there
while Miss Theyn was speaking.

Have you not been working ^'ery hard ?'
she asked, looking at his canvas, upon which
the figures were growing — coming to a fuller
life, a finer beauty, a truer human expressiveness.
Her question sounded common-place ;
ber well-meant grain the veriest chaff ; yet no
other word would come.

The artist smiled in answer. Then he
said :

That is true in one sense, yet one never
counts the work hard that is done con amove.
The hardness would be in being deprived of
the opportunity of working. I do not think
that in the intellectual life of man there can
be a greater trial than to know that you have
something to say or do, and to learn by sad
and sore experience that the opportunity of
uttering your word or doing your deed is to
be for ever denied you.' Then the man's
voice changed, faltered a little as he continued :
If there be a true taking up of a bitter cross
it is known to the man who must do some
lower work while his whole soul is drawn
to live and to toil on greater heights. And

it is a trial that not one human being ina
thousand can comprehend ; therefore the
man who suffers it can have no sympathy,
hope for none. In the beginning he yearns
for it, throwing out feelers here and there,
as if searching after response, comprehension ;
but by-and-by, borne down by sheer disappointment,
he ceases to expect these things,
and schools himself to a life of silent uncomprehended
negation, knowing that he
does this to his own loss, perhaps to the
world's loss also. Everything has its price.'

Had the man forgotten himself? All at
once he seemed to wake up.

I beg your pardon !' he said emphatically.
'• I fear I was not thinking !'

But he saw that Miss Theyn was thinking
as she stood there silent, impressed, beside his
picture, looking into it with quite new vision.
Bab was coming back from the cool cave
where she had left her flowers, something
glittering among the petals that was not the
morning dew. She was by Ailsie's side
again, the little one was lifting her disengaged
hand to Bab, Miss Theyn was smiling at
the evidence of affection that was between

the two, when all at once everybody became
aware of a figure, leaping, sliding, gliding,
making for himself a pathway down the
pathless cliff* but just beyond Yarva Ness.

Involuntarily the artist was drawn to look
at Miss Theyn. She was pallid, trembling,
distressed.

It is Hartas, my brother,' she said ; then
she turned aside. If some madness were
moving him to self-destruction she would not
look on while the deed was being done.

CANON GODFREY AND HIS NEPHEW.

For worse than being f ool'd
Of others, is to fool one's self."

Tennyson : Garth and Lymtte.

It seemed like a miracle that Hartas Theyn
should make that perilous descent, and yet
touch the beach unhurt. Thorhilda, turning
to meet him, saw that he was white and rigid
to the very lips. He looked thinner than he
had looked before; and his dark eyes, ashe
looked from one to another of the little
group before him, seemed alight with new
and strange fires. So impressive his unexpected
presence was that no one spoke
for a moment. At last Thorhilda broke the
silence :

This is my brother, Mr. Aldenmede,'
she said, making a o^reat effort after self-command.

Then, turning to Hartas, she
exclaimed : 'How could you do such a thing
as that ? How could you ? . . . It seemed
impossible that you should ever reach the foot
of the cliff alive !'

There's more than one here that would
have been glad snuff if I never had reached
it alive !' he replied with ill-controlled emotion.
But I didn't come down here to talk about
myself,' he went on, glancing hurriedly,
nervously, to where Bab stood, inwardly perturbed
with strange apprehensions, with uncomprehended
yearnings, yet outwardly calm,
almost dignified. ' I didn't come for that'
Hartas was saying. ' I had another errand' —
an errand' I'm not ashamed of!'

Then he paused for want of power to continue,
rather than for want of words, and
Damian Aldenmede, seeing this, came forward
with intentions of the kindest.

Have you known anyone to make that
descent before ?' he asked, speaking as of a
mere question of Alpine climbing, or rather
descending. ' Pardon me for saying it, but
I think you risked too much. The alum-shale
hereabout is like .^t^oap — quite as slippery,

quite as much to be distrusted for climbing
purposes.'

There's things as is more slippery, more
to be distrusted than the alum-shale,' returned
the young man, still pallid, still
tremulous.

No woman with a woman's heart could
have failed of pity or of sympathy ; and two
women, not of the hardest natures, were
beside him there.

And Damian Aldenmede was watchings
them, seeing on the one face — the face he
had turned to note first — a white, perturbed,
pathetic sadness ; on the other a burning and
increasing sense of pain and anxiety, almost
of fear ; and yet it was easy to see that it
was the fear that is waiting to be cast out by
love. He could not but understand, at least
up to a certain point ; yet he knew that
there was much behind that he could not
see.

Half unknown to himself he was looking
at this matter wholly through the eyes of
another. However admirable Barbara Burdas
might be as a woman of ' the masses,' strong
to labour, yet with innate ideas of gentle

living; having for duty's sake to give her
life, her youth, her best energies to earning
the bread of others as well as her own, yet
cherishing a certain consciousness of the fact
that man does not live by bread alone ; content
to spend the best of each day in toil
that mio^ht even be considered disofustinof ;
exposed to every element of an unkindly and
hardening clime, vet indulging; ceaseless
yearnings after knowledge, after light, after
good — yearnings that had to be kept in
the straightest silence — however great, almost
noble, all this in its way might be, Barbara
was yet no fitting sister for the refined and
cultured lady standing beside her nov,
making a contrast as complete as humanity
could show.

All this and much more the artist saw;
and in that moment it seemed to him that the
truest kindness to Bab herself would be to
endeavour to deliver her from the thraldom of
the love into which she had so unwittingly
fallen. He could see no happiness for her in
any future that should include a union with
this evidently hot-hearted, and perhaps more
or less shallow-headed young man.

All unaware his mind was made up, and
this with a swiftness, a want of deliberation
almost unprecedented in his mental history.
Later, he wondered over that hour by the sea
at Ulvstan.

Not many seconds had passed since Hartas
spoke. The young man was standing there,
breathing quickly, glancing irately from one
to another. As his glance fell upon Alden-mede
the latter spoke :

You were mentioning some errand, I
think — some motive ?' he began inquiringly,
and in placid, respectful tones — the respect a
man of good breeding instinctively displays
to a stranger, however inferior that stranger
may be to himself All unknowingly poor
Hartas was moved to a less antagonistic
attitude for the moment.

Yes ; I did speak of an errant,' he said,
his brown face coming to its natural brown -
ness, with something over. ' I didn't risk my
neck for nothing !'

'Naturally Aldenmede replied with unaffected
gravity. He had seen that Miss
Theyn was looking toward him pleadingly ;
that Bab's face was averted somewhat distress-sally.

' Naturally you did not, and your
motive must have been a tolerably strong one;
and though I, perhaps, may have nothing todo
with it . . . .'

I reckon you've more to do with it than
you may be wdllin to admit !' Hartas broke in
angrily ; ' an' if I were in your place I'd make
no pretence o' not knowing.'

With a sudden gesture of impatience Bab
turned herself towards the little group; a
light flashed to her eyes — the light of remembrance.
She had not seen the Squire's son
except in the distance since that unhappy
evening, when he had hurt her woman's sense
of dignity by his too fervid and too hasty
behaviour. For the moment his boldness, his
rudeness, his roughness had caused a something
that was almost revulsion in her heart.
But naturally it was only, so to speak, for the
moment, and it had been succeeded by a
pathetic yearning for what she thought of in
her own mind as a peace-making, or at any
rate some understanding that should tend
to a feeling of peace; and yet all the while
she had precluded the possibility of any
such opportunity happening to him ; and

this, though she knew that his yearning was
at least as intense as her own. So it is ever
with this

Most illogical
Irrational nature of our womanhood.
That blushes one way, feels another way,
And prays, perhaps, another'*

And now again he was paining her, awakening
within her a mingled sense of anger and
heartache. Had she been alone with him, she
had not shrunk from putting her pain into
words, but as it was she could only restrain
herself Arresting the word that was on her
lips, she turned away ; but the artist had seen,
and had in a measure understood.

There was yet no anger in Damian Alden-mede's
heart ; nothing but that large and
generous pity.

I am sorry if I have given you any cause
of offence,' he said, speaking calmly. ' May
I add that I have done so quite unconsciously
?'

All the same, you know what I mean ?'
asked Hartas.

I fear I am beginning to suspect.'

Mrs. Browning : Aurora Leigh.

'Til put it into words for you,' said Barbara,
coming forward and speaking tremulously.
' I'll help ya both if I can, since
it seems to be me 'at's at the bottom o' the
trouble. . . . Here's you ' (turning to the
artist), 'a stranger to the place, good an'
kind-hearted, an' able to see when a woman's
heart's aching for the need of help, of understanding',
able to see an' more nor that, willing
to give the help he knows to be needed ;
willing' to give time, an' trouble, an' pains to
try to make that woman's life i' the present,
and i' the future, seem brighter, an' pleasant;
better worth the living'; willing' to give her,
not only a word of encouragement, but to put
the words into deeds; to come an' sit by the
hour at a time in a little smoky fisherman's
cottage, wi' the smell o' the oilskins, an' the
salt fish, and the herein's all about, an' never
by no word nor sign to show no disgust, not
for a moment ; an' all this for the sake o'
giving an hour's larnin' to one as had never
had non afore ; but had gone on craven' for
help i' such things as a dumb beast out i' the
cold might crave for the shelter it couldn't
even picture' to itself. . . . There ! that's what

Fou might say for yourself, if ya would. . . .
An' as for you ' (turning to Hartas Theyn,
who stood near, with an air of uneasy
sullenness), ' as for you, it's more difficult
to say. You've thought to stoop down, to —

to. /. ;

AVhat ailed Barbara ? What could ail a
woman, young, strong, ignorant of nerves, of
fainting, of hysteria ? She had stopped suddenly:
her breathing was coming and going
rapidly, painfully ; her whole frame seemed
to be heaving with a sudden violence, and it
was evident that no more words were possible
to her. In trying to describe Hartas Theyn's
position, had she attempted a task beyond
her power; or \Yas it merely that the emotion
of the moment was too o^^eat to be
borne ?

Xo one had time to think.

Before Thorhilda could even attempt to

comfort or soothe the girl, she perceived that

two figures were rounding Yarva i^ess ; and

almost at the same moment Barbara herself

saw them. The Canon was helping Mrs.

Godfrey over the slippery stones. Thorhilda

went eagerly to meet them, with tearful face
VOL. I. 17

and outstretched hands. Here, at any rate,
was strength and guidance.

Come !' she exclaimed. ' Come and makepeace,
Uncle Hugh ! Hartas is here — he
came dashing right down the face of the cliff
where it is steepest — he had seen Mr. Alden-mede
sketching, and had taken some wrong
notions into his head. Barbara Burdas was
must telling; him how wrench: they were. Do

J

come and put things right!'

It was very unusual to see Thorhilda so
much excited, and her excitement caused the
Canon to wonder how much the strength of
any ordinary woman might be exhibited in
her power to keep at least an outward show
of calmness.

To Mrs. Godfrey, whose notions of propriety
were, in a certain sense, rather rigid, it
was somewhat annoying to have to be introduced
to this stranger, of whom she had
heard so much under such circumstances as
these. Nevertheless she smiled sweetly, and
shook hands graciously, and did her best to
hide her annoyance. Then she turned to Bab
and Hartas, as she might have turned to two
rather troublesome children in the Sunday-school,

the beautiful smile still on her lip, a
general expression of wondering amiability on
her face.

What is it all about, Hartas ?' she asked ;
and anyone who had known Mrs. Godfrey
well might, for all her amiable look, have
detected a certain undertone of vexation.
What is it ? Ah ! how I wish you Avould
take my advice and leave Garlaff for awhile !
It is unwise for a young man to remain
always at home, uuAvise to give himself no
chance of widening his mind, enlarging his
experience, expanding his thoughts by contact
with the thoughts and opinions of others.
Do you not agree with me, Mr. Aldenmede V
she asked, turning quickly; but the artist was
talking to her husband, Bab was listening to
Thorhilda's pained regrets.

In the background, under the cliffs, half-a-dozen
fishermen were crossing the beach,
David Andoe among them, suddenly silenced
in the middle of a story he had been repeating.
He had recognised Bab from astir: he

CO "

had seen that Hartas Theyn was one of the

group; and now he was passing on, saddened,

depressed with a depression that did not

17—2

escape the notice of this mates. And for all
the singularity they counted him to have,
David was vet a favourite amon' them: and
a whispered word was flashed along the little
line of men like the lightning that goes before
a storm. They understood, or believed that
they did, and the new understanding added to
the old determination; but the threat that
Xan had heard was not repeated in David
Andoe's hearing.

Xo one of the little group near the easel
was dreaming of any ill to be. sirs. Godfrey,
as usual, equal to every occasion, was asking
]mr. Aldenmede to dine at the Eectory on the
following evening without ceremony. The
Canon was talking to Hartas, sauntering on
over the beach with him, drawing slowly from
the youth a confession of a twofold jealousy,
and therefore in all probability causeless on
either hand. If Barbara were caring for
David Andoe, she could certainly not be
yielding to any fancy or feeling that might
come of intercourse with such a man as
Damian Aldenmede.

You perplex me altogether,' the Canon
said half sadly, and trying to keep back all

reproach from his tone. ' I can understand,
believe nie, I can understand more than you
think of your unwise affection for Barbara
Burdas; but it seems to me that if you truly
cared for her, you would not run the risk of
alienating her for ever by such displays of
small jealousy as this ! There is nothing
small about barbara. She will hardly endure
behaviour of this kind ; and I confess that
you surprise me by apparently endeavouring
to see how much she will bear. . . . Yet
don't mistake me ! I don't mean to be hard
or unsympathetic ; and I am sorry to see you
suffering like this. But believe a man nearly
twenty years older than yourself, and fifty
years more experienced in the world's ways;
believe me, when I say that you are not going
the right way to work to win a large-hearted
woman like Barbara Burdas. You are doing;
your utmost to repel her best and highest
feeling. Perhaps I ought to be glad of this ;
but I cannot, quite honestly, say that I am.'

Why not ?' Hartas asked curtly, and with
an evident disposition toward incredulousness.

'Why? . . . Well, shall I tell you the
truth ? Perhaps I had better ! 1 am not

glad, because I tliinlv I perceive that Barbara
has some affection for sou. If she have, it
may save you ! . . . There, you have all my
reason !'

Slowly, half unwillingly, and with a whole
shyness, Hartas drew his clumsy brown hand
from his pocket, and offered it to the Canon's
grasp.

I thank you for saying' that the Squire's
son replied. ' An' I trust you — that's more
nor I can say for the most o' folks. . . . Yes,
I trust you. . . . An' if I can help it, I'll go
against you no more. I'll be different from
to-day, if I can. I'd like to be different. I've
wished it a good bit. Thorhilda told you
mebbe.' (How strange it was that it should
jar upon the Canon to hear his niece's Christian
name used familiarly by her own brother.)
She'd tell you 'at I'd been train' to make a
change. But lately I've slipped back, an' I've
been aware of it ; but I couldn't help it, been'
so troubled ; having' no sort of hope nowhere.
. . But since you've told me that I'll begin
again. . . . I'll begin at once! I can't say
no more !'

'I am glad you've said so much,' the Canon

replied, with un extreme quietude of voice
and manner. ' And I am sure you mean it.
I won't say any more now — only this : if you
want help, help of any kind that I can give,
Avill you come to me? I'll make things as
easy for you as I can. . . . Promise me that
you will come 1'

Ay, I'll promise that,' Hartas said, intones
that made Hugh Godfrey look up with
an unintended quickness ; he saw at once that
the young fellow's eyes were suspiciously
bright, as with tears held back by very
force.

It was Hartas dio delivered that last
silent moment from its awkwardness.

Good-day,' he said suddenly, again holding
out his hand ; 'I'll go back to Garlaff by way
o' the Hopes. It's none so far round from
hereabouts.'

The Canon watched him a little as he went
onward, sending after him a yearning look, a
sigh, a prayer.

There's plenty of good in the lad yet,'
he said to himself, jxoinof back to the enters.
• May God defend him from the powers of
ill!'

'sweet the help of one we have helped.'

Some men are nobly rich, some nohhj poor
Some the reverse. Rank makes no difference.'

P. J. Bailey : Festus.

DA:\[rAX Aldenmede had accepted the invitation
of the Godfrey to dine at the Rectory.

Come up tomorrow evening, if you can,'
Mrs. Godfrey had said. ' There will only be
ourselves, and perhaps Mr. Egerton ; and the
Canon had Warmly seconded the invitation ;
adding, in his usual outspoken and simply
cordial way :

One does not too often, in a small place
like Yarburgh, have the chance of a chat with
congenially-minded people. I hope you are
remaining some thine V

It will depend upon my work,' the artist
had said ; and to Thorhilda's half-unconscious

regret, the reply confirmed her impression of
his dependence upon his own effort.

She could not help the sigh that came ; but
she might, by means of strong effort, have
resisted the making of comparisons that
should not have been made, with that tendency
to concession growing daily in her heart
Which Percival Meredith was daily expecting ;
always waiting for it with a finely diplomatic
patience. There should be no haste ; and,
until the right moment came, no more pressure.
I

Owinof to the seclusion in Avhicli he lived,
Damian Aldenmede had heard nothing of
Miss Theyn's supposed engagement ; though
everywhere the matter was now spoken of as
if no doubt existed. The artist was not a
man to whom people could gossip ; even his
landlady was learning this, somewhat to her
perplexity.

All day — that is, all his Working day-he
had been painting in Yarva Wake. Bab and
Ailsie had been sitting to him for about an
hour ; but Bab's mind had been too full of a
recent event to permit of her being quite so
perfect a model as she usually Alas.

The story was soon told. In the night a
screw steamer had cut her way through the
herring-nets belonging to i\\Q Star of the KortJi.
There had been lights on board the fishing-boat
; every reasonable and usual precaution-had
been attended to, yet disaster had overtaken
the poor fishermen in the hour of their
midnight toil.

It means many a bright pound to us
Bab admitted, when at last the artist's evident
sympathy unloosed her tongue ; though
even then she regretted the confession ; and
added, ' of course, we share it among us.
There's five of us — we'll get over it somehow.'


The artist hesitated a while, trvino- first to
find the exact thought he wanted, then the
word. It was not easy to find the latter [on
the spur of the moment.

By way of temporising, he said, * Is the
name of the steamer known?'

Yes, they saw it on her stern fair enough
as she sheered off. She eras the Oriana^ of
Cardiff.*

And can no redress be had — I mean,
cannot an action be brought to compel the

owners of the vessel to pay at least something'
toward the damage done to the
nets ?'

Bab laughed, a sad, sarcastic, understanding
little laugh.

It is little YOU know,' she replied, not
meaning to be unflattering. ' ^Vhy there's
never a week i' the herring season but somebody's
nets is cut all to bits. An' where d'ye
think fisher-folks 'ud get the money to go to
law, wi' the Lawyers all on the side o' the rich
owners ? It 'ud cost more to pay the law
bills than you could get new nets for. Xo,
we never think o' seeking' justice. The law
isn't for such as us ; an* the owners an' captains
o' them screw steamers know it. They'd
be more careful if they'd any fear.'

Again the artist was silent for a moment.
Presently, speaking with a grave considerate -
ness, he said :

'' It seems to me then that there is only one
earthly hope for you — the help of friends.
For instance, since you have helped me so
much — you and Ailsie, given me such help
that in all probability my picture will be hung
in the Grosvenor Gallery — that is a place in

London where man' beautiful pictures are
liunfy, and sometimes sold — since you have
given me this help, why should I not help
you ? Why should I not provide your grandfather's
boat, or rather the one he has a share
in, with new nets ? . . . I should like to doit
! Will you allow me ?'

Barbara's face as she listened was certainly
a study ; and one worthy of any portrait -
painter's best attention. The sadness that
was half-amusement, the wonder that was
half-pity, would have taxed any ordinary
talent to the uttermost.

You'll buy new nets for the Star o' the
North f she said, with an inquiring note in her
accent not quite free from something that was
almost derision. ' What d'ye suppose they'd
cost ? Ninepence a-piece, mebbe ? or it maybe
you'd think of levin' to go as far as
eighteen pence ! Eh, me! Why, a new set
complete \id never cost far short of a hundred
poimd^ I Think o' that ! An' you to talk o'
(jivhvi 'em, as one 'ud give a tramp 'at asked
for a light for his pipe a garden box o' matches !
Eh, but you nun know little o' the valley o'
money if that's how you think on it! New

nets for a filii coble ! It fair stuns one to
hear ya talk !'

The artist had listened quite gravely, subdued
his amusement to interest quite successfully.


A hundred pounds, did you sav ?'

Ay ! That's what I said ! . . . Anyhow,
buying' the nets at the very cheapest we'll never
get 'em for no less nor ninety.'

That is a large sum, relatively,' the artist
replied. . . . ' But — I do not tell you this byway
of boasting; quite the reverse — List year
I sold a picture for about the same price. It
was one that I had sainted in a very short
time, and happening to have no need of the
money, I have not touched it. . I had reasons
for wishing not to put it to any of the ordinary
uses of Use. For one thing, it was the first
picture I had ever sold; for another ' (and here
the artist hesitated, and seemed embarrassed),
for another reason, something had passed between
the buyer of the picture and myself
long ago, very long ago, that made me wish
to put the money aside for some especial
purpose, some emergency happening to some
life — not my own. It seems to me that this

emergency is now before me. I could buy the
nets; and so far from missing the money, T
should feel that I had, at last, freed myself
from a trust.'

The look of wonder, of perplexity, was
deepening on Barbara's face ; sadness and
wistfulness mino^line; with it.

There's a lot o' things you could buy for a
hundred pounds !' she said presently.

True ! I have told you why I cannot buy
them, with that money. Though, please remember,
I told you in confidence. ■ Perhaps I
do not need to add that.'

Barbara looked into his eyes steadfastly.

If I thought you mistrusted me once,
you'd have no opportunity o' coin' it again,'
she said, adding, ' Eh, but it does take folks
a long time to know one another down to the
bottom!'

There was another brief silence before she
spoke again. Evidently she had been thinking
of the artist rather than of herself

If ya couldn't buy nought wi' that money,
ya might live in better lodging's. Yen's none
a place for you!'

Why not ? But, if it troubles you, I may

say that I could, if I wished to do so, stay at
the hotel. It is not on account of the expense
that I prefer the ForecliftV

At the " Empress o' India," Bab said, rather
to herself than quite aloud. It was only the
other day that Mrs. Nossifer at the fish-shop
in the Cliff Road at Yarburgh had told her
that the gentlemen who staved at the new
hotel at Ulvstan were charged a guinea a day
for their food and lodging. Bab had accepted
the fact as surprising, but not as one likely
ever to concern herself, or even anyone she
might know. !Now she recalled it in silence.

You have not given me any answer ?' the
artist said presently, in a tone of inquiry
Tell me what you are thinking.'

I'm thinking this,' Bab replied with a
quite new emphasis, and tremulously conscious
of a certain amount of daring. ' I'm
thinking' 'at you're noiin what you seem. . . .
You're noiin one o' them 'at paints pictures
for a living.'

Xo ? What makes you think that ?'

Everything ! You've none the manner,
nor the beai'in' o' them 'at les to depend on
ether folk for the bread they eat.'

Aldenmede paused a moment; then he said :

Granted, so far ! For if I am not working
solely for my own bread, wh}^ should I
not try to help those who must do so ? why,
for instance, should you refuse to allow me to
help you in a trouble that has unexpectedly
come upon you ?'

Barbara looked at him again; her lips were
trembling with the unsaid words, but her
thought was not for herself, nor wholly of the
artist. She had others in her mind, others
to whom this munificence would seem as a
miraculous o'ift'of God.

You may help if you will,' she said at last.
The words might have been counted ungracious,
but her manner, the emotion of it, neutralized
all idea of that kind. ' You may if you will,'
she repeated. Then, out of the fulness of her
heart, rather than by aid of any shadow of
impertinence, she added, ' I'd noiin be surprised
if ya turned out to be a duke.'

Much laughter was not in iVldenmede's way,
yet to his relief and to Bab's he indulged for
once. Presently, still smiling, he said :

I suppose, then, that all the surprise would
be on m}^ part ! Certainly it would be very

great Believe me, your imagination is

running away with you !'

But non sa far ?'

Very far indeed.'

You've no title o' no sort ?'

Not a shadow of one. I should like, I
should very much like to write Ea. after my
name, or even A.E.A., which means something
much less. But I am talking idly.
Enough of pleasantries of that kind. They

are not so very pleasant after all And

now it is all settled ! I may buy the
nets ?'

Will 3'a think on it till the morning' ?'

Xo ; pardon me, I have given more than
enough of thought to the matter. I have
other things to think of

Yes ; so you have,' Barbara replied after a
moment of hesitation. ' Things 'at's mebbe
even more to you nor that.' . . . Then, with
a swift change of tone, she said, ' You're going'
up there to get your dinner to-night — to the
Rectory ?'

Yes.'

Do you like going' ?'

Yes. I am very glad to go.'

vcr, I. 18

I don't doubt it Yet I'm non

envying' you.'

No. I should not think that a common
enviousness was much in your way.'

You can see that ? . . . AVell, it's true.
Still, one can't help thinking' sometimes ; sometimes
within'. . . . Why is there such difference
atween one an' another ?'

Why, indeed ?'

The fisher-girl had set a problem that the
educated gentleman was almost as unable to
solve as she herself was, though he was not
thinking about it now for the first time. Yet,
seeing that the question had been asked in no
bitterness of heart or mood, he did his best to
make the girl perceive up to the point he himself
perceived.

Why these differences between class and
class exist is more than I can say he answered.
Perhaps it is more than anyone can say. It
is enough for a reverent mind that they were
ordained of God. Along the whole line of
what we term sacred history there is proof of
that from the day when we hear of the herdsmen
who tended Abram's cattle to this day.
But there is proof also that God Himself had

a special regard for the poor. David perceived
that ; and the mere fact of God's own Son
choosing a life of poverty should reconcile
some of us who are very far from any true
reconciliation. Still, it is a mystery. One
might think, to read of the pauperism, the
suffering of the poor of our own time, that
God had forgotten them, or had, at least, forgotten
to be gracious ; but that can never be.
Why He permits such suffering I cannot tell ;
but this I can tell, that it is the duty of everyone
who is not suffering to do something for
those who are ; to think of them and for them;
to try at least to comfort them in their sorrows ;
to help them over their troubles ; in a word,
to show them some friendliness, some human
loving-kindness.'

It's the poor 'at helps the poor, for the
most part,' said Bab, speaking almost like one
in a dream. ' I could tell ya many a tale o'
things 'at's happened at Ulvstan Bight, things
'at might surprise ya. It was yesterday ya
were speaking o' self-sacrifice, an' I thought o'
some 1 know. We're non such a hard lot as
you might think!'

18—2

You shall tell me some of the tales before
I go away ; that is if you will.'

Before you go away ! . . . . You're noiin

going' !'

The artist smiled not unpleasantly.

You did not think I had come to live in
ITlvstan Bight, did you ?'

Mebbe not,' Bab replied. Then more
wistfully she asked, ' But ye'll non go till
the picture's done, will ya ?'

I shall not need to stay here to finish it.

But I can do no more to-day

Will you ask your grandfather to come and
have a chat with me tomorrow morning ? I
want to know more about those accidents to
the fishing-nets.'

Damien ALDENMEDE AT THE Rectory.

Have you seen but a bright lily grow

Before rude hands have touched it ?
Have you marked but the fall of the snow

Before the soil has snatched it ?
Have you felt the wool of the beaver ?

Or swan's-down ever ?
Or have smelt o' the bud of the briar ?

Or the nard in the fire ?
Or have tasted the bag o' the bee ?
Oh, so white ! oh, so soft ! oh so sweet is she !'

Ben Jonson.

It is strange how some men seem to change
with the changing of the society about them ;
there might even seem to be hypocrisy in such
modifications, or at least weakness of will and
character. But in truth these drawbacks are
not always existent. A sensitive nature responds
to its environment so unconsciously
that it is often utterly unaware of its own
facility in responding, and the too-friendly

friend who shall point out the seeming inconsistency
may give a thrust not lightly or easily
borne.

You are in trouble, or you have pain,
apprehension, and you write a letter to an
old friend who has known your history from
first to last. Naturally, almost inevitably,
you permit yourself the relief of an utter
outpouring. You may know yourself to be
even morbidly apprehensive, yet you dare
to admit this ; you are aware that you are
feeling some pain, mental and physical, with
an undue keenness ; yet you can confess it,
and this readily, gladly. Or some little bit
of unusual joy has come in your way, and
in unwonted exuberance of spirit you ask
that your friend shall rejoice with you. Ina
word, you wear your heart, not on your
sleeve, but on a sheet or two of note-paper.
And, believe it always, the true friend is
drawn to be truer ; he would scorn to betray
you to even his own soul's censure.

That letter written, you write another to
another correspondent, you date it with the
same date, write it in the same hour ; yet this
second letter shall be (without your being

wholly aware of it) stiff and chill and pallid.
Not only heart shall be missing, but soul,
spirit, even intellect.

Were these letters read out to you on a
later day, in the presence, not of enemies
(we none of us have enemies in these suave
times), but of friends who are on sufficiently
intimate terms with you to express the measure
of their friendliness by the amount of
their freedom, you would blush for your own
apparent duplicity. It would seem nothing
less than that.

And yet there is no equivocation, no intentional
or other insincerity. A man's nature
is manifold, and can turn this side to the
friend who wins his confidence, this to the
man whose talent he admires, this to one who
needs only a social courtesy ; so it is that he
can meet so many other human souls with
some human pleasure, some refreshment. It
is only the narrow of spirit, the uncultured
in social intercourse, who imagine that they
discern mendacity in this varied face turned
to a varying humanity.

Naturally enough Damian Aldenmede was
unaware that he was a different man to his

host and hostess at the victory from that
he had seemed to be to Barbara Burdas. To
the latter he was genial, sympathetic, not
caring to hide the fact that he was thoughtful
for her present and her future. To the
former he was a grave and comparatively
silent man — in a certain sense evidently a
man of the world, betraying a distinction of
manner and aspect that instantly won its
due regard. And yet the Godfrey, as well
as their niece, were conscious of something
to which they could put no name. To have
used the word ^ mystery ' would have been
to suggest something that none of them fora
moment intended.

He did not talk much of himself, this new
guest, and no one at the Rectory, save Gertrude
Douglas, made the slightest attempt
to induce him to do so. And thrush it
could not be said that he declined to respond
to her effort, yet but little real knowledge
was elicited. He was an Englishman, he had
travelled much abroad, especially in Italy,
and had been glad to return to his own
country. He gave a decided impression of
having; nothing; to hide ; but, on the other

hand, he made it evident that lie did not
greatly care to permit himself to become a
topic of conversation in his own presence.
His host took care that his desire was respected.


The dinner passed off as dinners at the
Eectory always did, pleasantly and easily.
No display for display's sake was visible ; no
neglect or inadequacy tolerated. The Canon
was in one of his happiest and most winning
moods. Mr. Egerton was, as usual, equal to
anything and everything that came in his
Away ; and the conversation sparkled about
this topic and about that, as it will when
people give themselves, for the lighter social
hour, to interchange of the more superficial
ideas of life and living. But gradually,
almost inevitably, the stream deepened.
Before the evening was over the new
guest was better comprehended at Yarburgh
Eectory.

It was evident that he had intended no
betrayal of himself. All unaware he was
drawn by the Canon's earnestness to confess
his own ; perhaps confessing more than he
was well aware of.

You say that it is weighing upon you
more than anything else — the present condition
of the poor of England, of your own
parish,' he had replied in answer to a remark
the Canon had made. ' I can well believe
it. I have often thought that it must be
even more terrible for a clergyman than for
anyone else.'

So it is ; he stands in such a different
position toward the poor. He preaches a
gospel of brotherhood, or professes to do so ;
but mostly he refrains from details on that
head in his sermons ; and perhaps wisely.
For what does such brotherhood mean, for
even the best of us ? What do we really
know of our brother ? What do we really
care 1 In the heart of us, what is the depth
of our caring ?'

Be moderate !' interrupted Mr. Egerton,
his spirituel face lighting up with earnest
entreaty. * Don't run the risk of giving
a false impression. Mr. Aldenmede is a
stranger ; he may take you at your own
valuation !'

It would be wise of him to do so. Mr.
Aldenmede has seen enough, known enough

of humanity, to know that no man confesses
himself a sinner who has not sinned ; not
unless he has tendencies more or less morbid,
an accusation of which I am not afraid.'

Doesn't it rather depend upon what one
calls sin, or even error, or mistake ?' the
artist asked. ' With regard to the problem
of the suffering poor we have all of us erred,
most of us are yet erring ; but one is glad to
see everywhere a certain sensitiveness on the
subject, oft enough showing itself in irritation,
annoyance, sometimes in incredulousness,
sometimes in an attempt to prove that each
state of life has its own "compensations."
What can be the compensation for having no
fire, no food, no clothing worth the name ; no
decent bed even ; and only the most inhuman
shelter ?'

But,' said Mr. Egerton, ' but short of
that extreme of want, putting all such extremes
aside for the moment, do you not
think that even the life of the very poor has
alleviations V

Alleviations !' exclaimed Aldenmede.
Yes, thank Heaven ! One is glad to know
that it has, to believe in it to the uttermost.

I may say that some of the happiest
and pleasantness people I have known have
been people who were living from week to
week. alleviation ! Their life is, in many
cases, full of it ! So long as things keep on
at the moderate level of possible living they
have few cares, anxiety dies down, fear for
the future is quiescent. Such people often
have the kindliest feelings ; they have known
trouble, sickness, loss, pain ; and these things
have made them sympathetic, and sympathy
brings them nearer to their friends and neighbours.
Oh, " love in a cottage " is not a dream !
It may be an ideal ; but it might be the most
magnificent, most beneficent ideal. It wants
raising, however. The man who lives and loves
in a cottage wants help for the most part, such
help as can only come from those who are
somewhat his superiors in culture, in insight.
He wants teaching homo to find delight in
books, in music, in art, in all things lovely,
and pure, and of good report ; the things
that elevate thought, that awaken the beginnings
of aspiration. He needs to be made
to perceive that the mere possession of houses,
of land, of capital, can do nothing to help his

highest happiness ; to be shown how, in the
simplest wayside cottage, life may be lived
as its very best, life intellectual, life spiritual
nay, one might almost say the perfect life
which has been the ideal of the saints from
the first Christian century to this nineteenth.
It has never died out, the grand vision. It
never can. Perfection ! Well for the man
who has not ceased to dream of it, to yearn
for it, to work for it ! If the mere yearning
exists in any man, that man is to be envied.
How to implant it where it does not exist
should be one of the problems of the modern
philanthropist.'

Thorhilda had been seated at the piano for
the last half-hour, now and then playing one
of the softer of Mendelssohn's Lieder, now
and then stopping to listen, to say a few
words to Gertrude Douglas, who was sitting
with her embroidery near the table by the
piano. It was evident that the evening
was proving more or less a disappointing
one to Miss Douglas ; and Thorhilda, seeing
that such was the case, left the piano
and went to the fireside, where her uncle
stood on the rug, the new guest near him.

Mrs. Godfrey was seated on the sofa by the
fire.

Are you not tired of my uncle's parochial
conversation V Miss Theyn asked, looking
into Mr. Aldenmede's sad, grave face.
Uncle Hugh, I know, will never be tired ;
but he may weary other people. . I often
wish I were poor — quite poor, like Barbara
Burdas, for instance ; then he would care forme
1'

There was a pause. The artist was watching
the piquant humour of the lovely face
before him, the changing light in the gray
appealing eyes, the tender winning smile with
which she turned to her uncle. What sweetness
such a woman was capable of putting
into any home-life ! What beauty ! What
grace ! Even for one evening to taste of such
life, to feel the warmth of it, was like coming
under some touch of enchantment.

The artist had forgotten the reply he
intended to make. ' Barbara Burdas !' he
said at last. ' What a good woman she is !
Speaking of the poor, of their desert, their
endurance, where will you find a braver or a
better girl '? Think of all that she has done.

is yet doing, and by her own unaided
strength, so far as human help is concerned !
She likes to keep up the fiction that her
grandfather helps ; and naturally the old
man likes to keep up the same comforting
notion. But it is a notion utterly mistaken.
She profits somewhat by his share, or part of
a share, in the Star of the Norths but last year
the sum was less than four pounds ; it did
not pay for the rent of the house. And this
year, owing to accidents, damage done by the
trawlers, and suchlike things, she is afraid it
will be even less ; yet she never utters a word
of complaint. It is old Ephraim who does the
complaining, though he admits that he " wants
for nothing." '

The most striking thing about Barbara
is her craving for knowledge, for education,
said the Canon, who knew a little of what
was being said in the Bight as to the artist's
kindness in lending the girl books, helping
her to understand them, and teaching her ina
general way something of the right use
and meaning of her own language. But the
Canon made no direct reference to the subject,
though he perceived that Miss Douglas

was waiting with suspended needle for details
of the matter.

She was not to be gratified. Aldenniede
replied only to what the Canon had said.

That is one striking thing ; another is her
hatred of all coarseness or roughness, her
desire for refinement ; and being surrounded
by things rough and coarse, her duty seeming
to lie amongst them, her everyday life must
be more or less one of pain to a sensitive
nature. Yet I do not believe that she ever
dreams of escape of any kind ; that in one
sense she can even be said to desire it. That
is the touchstone. She does her duty, and
more ; and being urged onward and upward
by unseen influences she knows no content
in so doing. How should she ? Contentment
is not for such as Barbara. To be content is
too often to know no aspiration for one's self
or for others, to know no sympathy, to have
no human outlook, no passionate human desire
for progress, for attainment of any kind.
Contentment ! It is for the cattle in the
fields, that graze and fatten and die ! No
thinking human soul can in these days be
contented.'

Tliorhilda was listening;, thinking, recalling;
the speech of another on the same topic,
and as she thought her heart-beats came the
faster. Was she not deliberately dreaming;
of this lower content ? And at what cost ?
Never had the price seemed to be what it
seemed now with this stranger standing by
her uncle's hearth, unveiling his own heart,
his own aspiration, all unknowingly. She
shrank even from herself as she listened. It
was as if some voice were heard drawing her
from ease, from wealth, from luxury, entreating
her to take some higher way. And,
harder still, this higher way was made attractive.
She could hardly help fearing that this
stranger had read her true character. She
seemed to discern his perception in every
look, every word. And the more she discerned,
the more she was drawn to watch for
further signs. Here, if anywhere, was the
guide she had longed for, the one true helper,
the one adequate friend. Again the feeling
that she had first known on that day by the
sea came back to her, but with redoubled
emotion, and again it was followed by the

VOL. I. 19

remembrance that all such feelings must be
put strongly away.

Strongly and surely,' she said to herself
that night in her own room as she walked
up and down, trying to quiet her unsettled
spirit, yet unable to put away from her
mental vision that grave yet tender glance,
to close her ears to the tones of the most
sympathetic, and sad, and kindly voice she
had ever heard. Now, for the first time,
she realized what it was to be subjugated by
a look, coerced by a turn of the head, silenced
by another's silence. "What might it mean,
this new and peculiar experience ? Whatever
it meant it must be put away, and the
sooner the better, the better for everyone
concerned. ' It is evident he does not
know,' Thorhilda continued to herself, ' he
has not heard of — of Mr. Meredith, of his
friendship for me. He must know soon,
very soon ! Then it will be over — this — this
unrest, this strain. It will all be over, and
I shall be at peace. . . . Will he come again '\
It would be better that he should not — better
far. . Yet it would be pleasant, very
pleasant. . . . And I am not a fool. . Indeed,

now that 1 think of it, 1 ;should irlsji
him to come to the Eectory again, that I
might prove to myself my self-possession. I
wish it, certainly I do, and I wish that he may
come soon ! The sooner he comes the sooner
will this unrest be ended.'

j:nd of vol. I.

»;1I,I.IN(; AND ions, PRINTERS, Gl-'IJ-DKORIJ.

»■

im

3 0112 049098657

■^);#/.-;'vn:'-

^-"ti^:

'/At>v-a-"i'-A'is*

a flcbcl

MARY LINSKILL

AUTHOR OF

BETWEEN THE HEATHER AND THE NORTHERN SEA,' ' HAGAR,
THE HAVEN UNDER THE HILL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

Honiton

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



The right of translation is reserved]

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

C chapter PAGE

XXVI. ' T MIND ME HOW WE PARTED THEN ' - 1

XXVII. A WILD NIGHT'S WORK - - - 18

XXVIII. 'ALONE, ALONE, ON A WIDE, WIDE

SEA !' - - - - 33

XXIX. 'HAST THOU THEN WRAPPED US IN

THY SHADOW, DEATH V 40

XXX. NAN Twas AND HER TROUBLES - - 52

XXXI. 'AT MIDNIGHT, WHEN THE CRY WAS

MADE ' - - - - 63

XXXII. CONJECTURE VAGUE - --75

XXXIII. WATCHING BY THE SEA - - 86

XXXIV. AN UNUSUAL EXPERIENCE - - 101
XXXV. STILL DRIFTING, DRIFTING ON. NO

LAND. NO SAIL - - 113

XXXVI. HOW RESCUE CAME - - - 119

XXXVII. FORGIVENESS - - - - 126

CHAPTER Prob

XXXVIII. BARBARA Bras AND 1IARTAS THEYN - 136
XXXIX. THE BANDS UF FATE TWINE CLOSER

AND YET CLOSER - --151

XL. A NIGHT OF QUESTIONING - - 163

XLI. 'LATE, LATE, SO LATE !' --182

XLII. 'SOMEWHERE THERE MUST BE LIGHT' - 198

Xlii ' IF MUSIC BE THE FOOD OF LOVE, PLAY

On't - - - 215

XLIV. ' SO FAREWELL THOU WHOM I HAVE

KNOWN Ti'U LATE' - - - 220

XLV. 'UNSEEN FINGERS ON THE WALL' - 247

XLVI. SOME WORDS FROM A WEDNESDAY Evening
LECTURE - - - :

1 I MIND ME HOW WE PARTED THEN.'

1 So have I dreamed ! oh, may the dream be true ;
That praying souls are purged from mortal hue,
And grow as pure as He to Whom they pray.'

Hartley Coleridge.

Damian Aldexmede, coming home in the
moonlight alone, did not dream that Barbara
Burdas was watching him from the side of the
Forecliff, above the Sagged House. She stood
in the shadow there, though it was nearly midnight,
looking out over the cliff top ways.
The sea was rolling softly, breaking monotonously,
even sadly for one in a sad mood ;
and Bab's mood was not of the brightest.
An intolerable sense of yearning had possessed
her all the evening, as if somewhere, some
vol. ii. 20

influence were drawing her from herself ; and
the strain was so great that she found herself
to be wearier than usual — weary of life, of
light, of all things. Once David Andoe had
passed by, not stopping to speak, but looking
at her as he went onward with the old heartbroken
look that was growing to be so painful

&

pah

since Bab was learning what such pain meant.
Yes, she knew now ; and as she stood there,
thinking of the Rectory, trying to imagine
what could be happening there, how each one
would be looking at and speaking to the
other, her knowledge seemed to deepen ; and
presently, when her thoughts wandered away
to Garlaff, to Hartas Theyn, who might be
there, or might not, she could not help
dropping a quiet tear or two. The quietness
was not the measure of the bitterness.

It's hard to be sa lonely, an' to care so for
others all the while ; an' all the while to
know 'at you can never be nought to them,'
she said, half audibly. ' Mebbe I'd not mind
it so if I weren't sa lone !'

So she stood, wondering if perhaps the
artist might pass that way — if he would stop
and speak. It was one of Bab's weak moments,

and her soul was hungering for a word. All
was so still in the little house behind her,
where her grandfather slept, and the children ;
all was so still on the land and on the sea ;
and the very stillness seemed to have aching
in it, and pain.

'It is dree — oh, it is dree!' she cried softly
to herself, clasping her hands, and lifting her
eyes as if she would pierce the very stars for a
sign. But none came that night. Her appeal
was a prayer ; but not yet was it to be answered.

Bab did not see when the artist passed out
of sight. The road was hidden by a point of
the green cliff-top, and he did not reappear
on the shoreward pathway. It was as she
guessed. He had been drawn by the beauty
of the night to £0 down to the rocks below,
where the moonlight was quivering upon the
wrack fringed pools that the sea had left.
He went on rapidly over the way he knew so
well now ; keeping mainly to the shelving
banks of sea-worn gravel that had collected
just below the sand-dunes under the cliff.
The moon was still sparkling upon the sea ;
brightly, yet softly ; the small waves were
still breaking with far faint murmuring. All

20— 2

was bright light, or deep shadow ; all was
silence, and peace, and beauty.

And all was calm, save the heart and brain
of the man who was walking rapidly, fighting
with himself, with a new and strong temptation
; a temptation that had come upon him
suddenly, and yet not all uncreated. There
had been a moment of warning ; a soul
wounded long ago had spoken words of entreaty
to a heart not yet beyond the possibility of
further wounding. He had listened, promised
obedience — and now the chance of keeping his
promise was threatened grievously. But he
was well aware.

The very rapidity of his movement betrayed
the force of the emotion that was impelling
him onward, beyond the Bight, beyond the
Ness, beyond the rocks and caves he knew so
familiarly.

It had not been so before. Love had come
to him with all the soft and sweet enchantment
of love. He had not known or dreamed
of resistance.

Now, all was otherwise. He had loved ;
he had been betrayed ; he had suffered — suffered
so that he dreaded love as a man might

dread the most desolating disaster his human
life could know.

Until this evening he had seen, and clearly,
all that a second such passion might mean
to him ; now he saw no longer. Here was
the one serious sign of the pass to which he
had come. Now he could perceive nought
save the drawing, the delight, the good, the
happiness — the most perfect happiness ever
beheld by him, even in his most perfect
vision.

All the drear dread days of his penance
poured their depths into this day ; all the
lost days of his delight returned their essence
upon this.

I have been as one dead,' he said to himself
as he went onward ; ' I have had life, and
yet I have not lived ; I have had the appearance
of living without the reality ; I have
professed belief in hoping, whilst I myself
w r as hopeless ; I have taught loving, whilst I
myself was loveless. And now — now whither
am I being led? May all that is good guide
me ; all that is strong strengthen me, for I
would not willingly fall — no, I would not
fall again — such falling is too terrible. Half

my life has gone in trying to recover from
that last undoing, and I thought its effect not
yet over. Was it over? It is a dozen years
since — more than a dozen, I think ; but I
hardly know, since time has gone by on
wings so broken — now speeding feverishly,
now halting faintly — but never at a natural
pace. . . . And what does this portend, this
change, this sudden glow of light — the light
of hope? Another disaster? or compensation
for the last? . . . If it might mean the latter,
if it might ! Dare I think it will ? Does
Fate ever take a sudden turn in the middle of
a man's life, lifting him from the lowest depth
of negation to the supreme height of fulfilment?
Is it possible? There are those who declare
that it is not — that a life once certainly set on
ill-fated lines can come to no true point of
turning, of real escape ; but that I do not
believe, I have never believed it ; too much
lies in a man's own hand for any pre-dooming
of that kind to be taken as a rule. No ; it
could never be! Far better the old and worn-out
proverb that declares that it is a long lane
that has no turning! . . . Dare I hope that I
have come to a turning? . . . How good she

looks! how pure! how true! Her every expression
has sympathy in it, and perception,
with now and then faint touches of something
that is almost sadness. It is like a question,
that sad look, like an appeal ! More than
once I longed to know T her thought, as if it
must be something needing help, needing
consolation. . . . Shall I see her tomorrow?
Will she come down to the beach? Shall I
venture there, or shall 1 fly by the first train
tomorrow morning? . If I did — if I even
did that, my life would no more be the life it
has been !'

So absorbed had Damian Aldenmede been
in his own reflections that certain sounds, not
very distinct or aggressive, had fallen upon his
ear almost without his noticing them ; then
all at once it seemed to him that he heard
human voices in the distance, voices that
seemed raised in anger or distress. The sound
came from beyond the point of the dark rock
that stretched across the beach ; and very
naturally he hastened onward, feeling more
and more certain each step that he should find
some one in need of assistance. But all at
once, just as he rounded the point of rock, the

sounds fell upon the air, fell to a lower tone,
and more pathetically moving.

Before he saw the dark figure kneeling
upon the sands he knew that only one voice
was uplifted, the voice of a man in a very
agony of prayer. Instinctively he stood still,
took off his hat, and prayed with and for
the lonely suppliant, who knelt with bared
brow and uplifted hands under the midnight
sky. No thought of retreating occurred to
the artist.

He did not at first dream that it was David
Andoe who knelt thus. That it was one of
the fishermen of the neighbourhood he knew
by the tone and the dialect ; but by-and-by he
discerned that it was the man whose love for
Barbara Burdas was apparently one of the
chief topics of conversation at Ulvstan.

He was near enough to hear most of the
words that fell tremulously from the man's
lips ; touching, simple words they were ; and
though in a sense familiar, they were yet
reverently uttered.

Oh, Jesus!' he was saying, ' let ma speak
yet again, an' yet again hear ma whiles Ah'm
speaking' ! Ah've never another friend — no,

not one 'at cares ; an' my heart's well-nigh
breaking' wi' sorrow. Ah'm fair sick wi'
sorrow, an', worse nor that, my sorrow's
leading' me into sin. Ah'm thinking' on her
when Ah should be thinking' o' Thee ; pray in'
'at she may turn te me when Ah'd better be
praying' for grace te turn more wholly to
Thee. All my prayers is tainted wi' the
thought of her, an' often enuflf Ah can't pray
at all. Ah can't see Thee for the sight of her
coming' atween ; an' what can Ah do? What
can Ah do to stop my heart fra chin' an'
yearning'? What can Ah do?'

And then the pleading voice fell a little,
the words became indistinct, and Aldenmede
would have turned away silently, as he had
come ; but he could not: some constraining
force of sympathy drew him a little nearer.
He would speak with David Ancloe when his
prayer was ended. The words were more
audible again now.

Whatever happens to me, be good te her]
the poor fellow was continuing. ' Let no
trouble come nigh her. Keep her fra coin'
aught 'at's wrong, aught 'at 'ud bring misery
to her afterward. An' if she has ony sorrow

now, do Thou comfort it, comfort it Thyself,
wi' that love o' Thine, that love 'at Ah can't
yet feel rightly myself'. Somehow Ah know
it's there ; Ah believe in it wi' my head, but
Ah can't get hold on it wi' my heart, not so
as to feel happy wiv it, and satisfied. That's
what Ah'm wanting', but Ah can't get hold on
it. Ah never could, not so as te be no help
te me when Ah was needing' help. . . . An'
Ah need it noo ! if ever Ah wanted upholding'
Ah do to-night ! Ah'm sa desert lone — Ah'm
almost faint wi' loneness an' friendliness,
an' wi' the want o' peace ; Ah've no peace
nowheres, not even a place where Ah can lie
my head i' peace. . . . An' mebbe it les te
be so, mebbe it les, so as Ah may larn 'at
there's no peace nowheres foot o' Thee — none
but that ' at passes all under standing . . . . God
gie me that — that precious peace !'

Once more the pleading voice trembled and
failed, and by-and-by another sound came
upon the wind, the sound of painful, convulsive
sobbing. The moon was half hidden
in a nest of clouds, there were shadows upon
the sands of the Bight. Then by-and-by all
was still, silent.

The fisherman, yet kneeling, heard the
steps upon the beach behind him, and rose
to his feet just as the moon swept herself free
of the clouds that were driving on. He
recognised the artist, who spoke at once.

Forgive me,' he said in kindly and sympathetic
tones. ' I had not dreamed of finding
anyone on the beach so late. . I was
walking here because I was troubled, not
thinking to find anyone in the same trouble,
or nearly the same, as my own. Believe me,
I meant no intrusion.'

David hesitated awhile. He had • heard
much of what had been said on the Forecliff
about the stranger's influence over Barbara,
but the freemasonry which exists between
one true soul and another had hitherto prevented
him from having any doubt, any fear
of the artist. Yet now for a moment nil was
changed. Andoe was trying to collect himself
so far that he might do no injustice to
another, but in his large sympathy not much
effort was needed.

1 Ah'm non sure as I understand, sir,'
he replied. ' You've heard me, you've heard
as Ah was i' trouble, an' you say your

trouble's the same as mine. . Do Ah understand
ya rightly ? — you're cabin' for Aer, for
Barbara Burdas?'

The poor fisherman could not see the expression
on the artist's face ; it might have
been helpful to him if he could.

1 For Barbara Burdas !' Aldenmede exclaimed
in a tone most comforting. 'I was
not even thinking of her at the present
moment, except in connection with yourself.
No ; to prevent misunderstanding, let me say
plainly that I was thinking of some one else.
and for sympathy's sake I may add, some one
who is troubling me much as Barbara is
troubling you. I think it was this drew me
to come and speak to you, instead of turning
back, as I was moved to do at first. . I
thought that perhaps I might say a word to
comfort you, or, if not that, I thought that
mere sympathy might be some consolation. I
have often in my life found it so — that to
speak with one who had endured the same
suffering as myself was in some subtle watery
helpful.'

1 Ah don't doubt,' said the fisherman, only
half understanding much that he had heard.

Presently he said, ' You've seen a good bit o'
Barbara lately, sir ?'

Yes, I have ; and I may add that the
more I have seen of her the better I have
liked her.'

1 That was certain. . . . But you spoke o'
comfort — surely you'd never ha' done that if
you'd known all they were savin' — the folks i'
the toon — 'at she's only one thought, an' that
for the Squire's son.'

I have heard of that. . I have thought
of it. I may say that I have thought of it a
good deal.'

1 D'ye know him, sir ?'

I have seen him once.'

1 Then that would be yesterday — yesterday
afternoon ?'

Yes, so it was ! It seems a week asfo !'

Ah were passion' by at the time — me an'
my mates. An' 'twere that made my heart
sa sore, that drove me out here last night,
an' again to-night, to seek for a spot where
Ah could be alone. . . . Ah'd noa other place.'

1 And I have disturbed you ? . . . I am
sorry, very sorry ! But I meant well.'

1 That Ah'm sure on, sir. An' since you've

spoken so kind, Ah may say 'at more nor
once Ah'd wished ta lev speech o' ya. Known'
'at you'd influence over Bab, Ah thought
mebbe 'at if ye knew all yard say a word forme.
Ah believe — nay, Ah know — as she'd
take a deal o' notice o' what you say. . . .
An hoo can Ah tell ya the rest ? Hoo can
Ah tell you o' the one she seems to ha' set
her heart on ? Ah non wish te be guilty o'
the sin o' evil-speaking — a sin at surely does
such harm i' the world as only Satan himself
can know on — noa ; God helping' me, Ah'll
non say aught again him as Ah can help.
Ah'll only ask ya ta think for yourself as ta
whether one like me, 'at's plashed i' the saut
water for my bread ever sen Ah was eleven
years old, 'ud be more likely te win bread for
her an' hers nor a skip-jack like yon, 'at's
walked the eth wiv his han's in his pockets
an' a pipe in his mouth, well-nigh ever sen he
could walk at all ? Ah'll leave it to you, sir,
te think that question foot, and then to act as
seems ya best. Ah'll say nought o' myself
o' my loan trouble. . . . Mebbe you've heard
snuff. An' if Ah've said aught o' him Ah
shouldn't ha' said, aught 'at sounded like

malice or a bad spirit, why, then, forgive it,
please, sir, an' forget it. Ah non meant ta
be malicious.'

It was only a word or two that Damian
Aldenmede said in reply — a word of assurance,
of comprehension. But the fisherman
went on his way comforted ; the artist went
on his way somewhat perplexed, yet with a
very definite picture in his own mind of David
Andoe's happiness by some cottage fireside
with Barbara Burdas for the spring and inspiration
of his happiness.

And a touch of something that was almost
envy came with the vision. A home fireside,
a happy home ! Surely that was the Alpha
and Omega of human felicity ! Given the
highest hopes, the highest ambitions, even
aspirations, yet when were such ever reached
by men whose home-life was chilled, embittered
? Loneliness might be endurable, but
it was only that. The man who had no
sustenance save such as came to him from
contact with the outer world was a man to be
pitied indeed. His life could know no true
encouragement, no true support. In times of
failure, or of pain, what had he to rest upon

for consolation ? In hours of success, if such
came to him, of what value was the thing that
men were congratulating him upon ? It had
not even a name of any real import. It was
not happiness ; it was not content ; it was not
felicity ! Success was hardly successfulness to
the man who must meet his day's ending
in an empty room, by a lonely fireside, with
not a hand to clasp his in the warmth of
the new emotion ; not a voice to say ' Well
done ' : not a heart to beat in unison with his
own heart's increased pulsation.

Much of the artist's thought as he went
homeward was for himself, much for David
Andoe and Barbara Burdas ; and the strong
feeling he had for the latter found some expression
in his conversation with Barbara ;
but to his regret he was quickly made to
perceive that his words were but as snowflakes
upon a running stream of contrary
emotion. Bab had no thought of David
Andoe, save of his pain and of his trouble, of
which she was but too well aware ; she had no
other thought of him

Don't speak of it,' she had said in conclusion.
Don't speak of it never again. . . . My life's

over — all that's worth the name o' life. I'll
live, God helping' me ; I'll live for many a
year yet. I nun do that for the sake o' them
'at needs my life. Ya can tell David that —
it may quiet him ; it's quieting' for me. . . .
Yes; just tell him that my life's o'er. . . .
I've made the last moan I'll make i' this
world, or so I think ! There's no known'
what's i' store.'

vol. 11. 21

A WILD NIGHT'S WORK.

1 A man can have but one life and one death.
Let me fulfil my fate.'

Robert Bbowkixg.

Afterward, long afterward, it was said
that there had been a settled plan for the
work of that wild night in the Bight of
Ulvstan ; but the saying was untrue. The
whole, from first to last, was a consecutive
series of accidents, undesigned, and in a
certain sense unpremeditated ; one leading to
another by the sort of inevitableness that is
not so uncommon in human life, as anyone
might perceive who was careful in noting
such sequences.

It all happened on the night following that
on which the artist and David Andoe had met
so unexpectedly on the beach. Neither had

then dreamed of what the next night was to
bring.

As it has been told, they met and separated
somewhere about midnight. The artist had
gone home, but not to rest ; sleep was impossible.
The only possible thing was bewildering
and torturing thought. Before dawn
he rose, went down to the sea for his bath,
and returned to the Forecliff to watch the
grand stormy rising of the sun. It was
impressive that morning beyond description.
The rose-red bars lay straight across the sky
between bars of orange vermilion, and these
again were bounded by bands of burning
scarlet. Not the faintest, floating, formless
cloud disturbed the impression made by the
long, unbroken, glowing lines. No painter —
not even Turner himself — might even have
attempted to reproduce such a sky ; its calmness
of form, its dazzling luminousness of
colour, its tragic glow of intensity. All the
morning the influence of it was upon the
receptive mind of the artist. He expected
some sudden storm to arise ; and when, about
noon, the sun was obscured, the whole sky
overspread by a gray, leaden cloud which

21—2

showed only a rift here and there, disclosing
the aerial silver fields beyond, he felt that the
change was but the precursor of something
wilder and more majestic. Yet no wind had
arisen as yet ; not a ripple disturbed the cold
ominous gray of the boundless sea.

So the evening closed in; a dead leaden
colouring was upon the outdoor world everywhere.
The great gray gulls flapped their
w r kings slowly between a gray heaven and a
grayer world of waters. Hardly a sail was
visible in the offing. The herring fleet had
gone northward, and was in safer shelter than
that afforded by Ulvstan Bight ; only a
pleasure-boat or two remained moored by the
quay. The greater part of the smaller craft
of the place had been drawn up to the Fore-cliff
; they were better there.

It might be eight o'clock when Barbara
came out to the door of the Sagged House,
glancing to the north and to the south with
her usual discerning glance. Not a star had
appeared ; no moon might pierce that dense
cloud-pall which had seemed to hang lower
and yet lower each time she had observed it.
And ever the same ominous stillness brooded

beneath, upon the land, and upon the deep,
chill darkness of the pitiless sea.

It'll be on us afore morning' !' Bab said to
herself, turning to go indoors again. ' Thank
God 'at most about here's i' shelter. There'll
non be a soul I know out on yon sea tonight.'


It was growing colder now — much colder.
A little later Damian Aldenmede, sauntering
down to the beach to smoke his last cigar,
was surprised by the change in the temperature.


If I remain at Ulvstan much longer I
shall have to write and ask Care to send mea
greatcoat or two,' he said audibly as he
increased his pace.

Still he remained there, walking up and
down between the Ness and the Forecliff, now
facing north and now south, but finding not
much difference whichever way he turned. It
was a strange night. The mere air, which
was hardly stirred as yet, seemed to have the
force and the peculiar biting quality of a
strong north-easter, though such wind as
there was came off the land. And there was
no change either on the ocean or in the sky.

The cloud-mass still loomed above, seeming as
if fain to drop its gloomy weight upon the
wide, and dark, and gloomy sea.

At last the sigh arose — the long, low, tristful
sigh, the first breath of the storm, which
seemed to sweep across the face of the water
with a sadness like to that of the sigh that is
heard before the last breath passes from out the
lips of the dying.

The storm sigh rises, it sweeps onward, not
coming to a moan, not fluttering or hurrying
the lightest wavelet. There is no visible
sign — yet you see it ; there is only [the
faintest audible sound, yet you not only hear
it, but, hearing, you shiver, and, if you have
dread for anyone, turn faint for the strife
to be.

Then the pause comes — a dead stillness, as
if the natural progress of the world were
arrested. One miffht imagine that the earth
itself had ceased to move.

But this is only for a while ; sometimes it is
a very brief while, sometimes it is longer. Of
this evening it was afterwards said that this
strange interval had lasted so long that it was
thought that the storm might be passing b}^

without breaking on this part of the northeastern
coast.

It was at the very beginning of the calm
period that a little band of men came out
from the small inn on the quay, known as
the Cod and Lobster. They were fishermen,
all of them : and two, Jim Tyas and John
Scurr (Lang Jack, the name he was better
known by), were David Andoe's mates, and
each held shares in the Star of the North.
David was not among them. The Star of the
North was w r with a portion of the herring-fleet
off Danesborough ; and David, with Will
Scurr and Luke Furniss, had remained onboard.
The two others had walked over to
ITvstan for the night, as they often did.
They would return at daybreak.

Most of the evening they had spent in the
little inn, smoking long clay pipes, drinking
muddy beer, denouncing trawlers and steamers,
gossiping of this neighbour and of that, but
more than all of David Andoe and his trouble.
They were angry, but not excited, when
they went out, so Ann Stamper, the lone
old woman who was landlady of the Cod
and Lobster, had said afterward, and there

her testimony ended. She knew nothing
more.

They sauntered on awhile, the four men ;
then Lang Jack went home, as he was in the
habit of doing, having a wife capable of eliciting
the ' reason why ' when he did not. It
was after ten now, yet the others stood about
on the narrow, rugged quay, and then went
down to the beach, still smoking, still angrily
discussing the manner and method of the
revenge they meant to take when opportunity
served. One was for adopting the time-honoured
and effective process known as
c tarring and feathering ;' another, in a moment
of bitterness, had suggested that the
Squire's son should be decoyed on board some
vessel in the offing and subjected to the
punishment known as keel-hauling.* But
since Hartas Theyn had one day done some
small kindness to Samson Merrill's little son,
Sampey had demurred to these more violent
measures.

For the benefit of the uninitiated it may be explained
that keel-hauling was a mode of punishment used at sea informer
times. The offender, having heavy leaden weights
attached to his feet, was dragged by means of ropes to and
fro under the keel of the ship.

Let's give him a ducking', an' ha' done
wi' it,' Sampey said. { Let's pop him underwater
at the point o' the Ness at high-tide,
and then let him go.'

And thereupon Jim Tyas had given expression
to his opinion that Verrill was a sneak
and a spiritless coward. Sampey was nota
man to bear such an accusation tamely.
His pipe w r as dashed down, his jacket off,
before the others were aware of his intention.

Come on — we'll fight that foot, too an'
me!' he said with subdued passion.

Of course, Jim Tyas was ready. Richard
Leah had no thought of interfering ; and in the
light of later events it seemed almost sad that
interference should have come in any shape
whatever. Before the first blow had been
struck, a step came up quickly behind ; a
stranger's voice broke in hurriedly :

'What's up? Who's going' to fight in the
dark, an' at this time o' night? What's the
row about?'

There was yet no moon; but a rift in the
heavy purple-black cloud disclosed a steely
glare that enabled the fishermen to recognise
that this stranger was no other than the man

whose conduct they had been discussing,
whom they had been desiring to get into
their power by any means. And now, when
the hot blood of anger was already coursing
along their veins, it was surely the worst of
moments for him to come in contact with
them. Before he knew what had happened
he w T as stru^o-lino; w fth the three men — three
against one — and two of them certainly mad
against him. For Dick Reah had thought
of Bab almost as long as David Andoe had
done : though a certain rude sense of honour
had restrained him from expressing his preference
by other than indefinite ways and
means. Yet Bab knew, and he was aware
that she knew ; and the knowledge kept up
a certain amount of uneasy sensation on
either side. Certainly the feeling he had for
her added to the strength of the present
moment's passion.

Sampey Verrill's voice was the only one
heard above the strife :

Let him lev a chance!' Verrill pleaded.
'It's non fair, three again one! . . . An'
giv' him a chance o' speaking' ! Let's hear if
he's owt to say for hissed'. Let him speak !'

Speak!' exclaimed Jim Tyas breathlessly.
His blood was up as thoroughly as that of
Hartas Theyn, who was struggling to defend
himself in no unscientific manner. ' Speak !
He's spoken over much. . . . We'll put a
stop tiv his speaking' !'

k Mak' him promise !' shouted Dick Reah.
Mak' him promise 'at he'll never open his
lips to Bab Burdas ageean ; 'at he'll never
come near her, nor even near the loose she
lives in. . . . Give him that chance. Mak'
him promise ; an' then give him a good
dressing' and let him go.'

The suggestion seemed fair enough, but
it was not readily acted upon. The strife
continued for a few moments because the
impetus accumulated did not permit of its
being stopped all at once. The fishermen
had been trying to bring Hartas to the
ground ; but, strange to say, they only succeeded
after some difficulty. He had more
muscular strength than they had anticipated,
and he had some knowledge of the science of
self-defence. At last, however, they were
successful, and Reah repeated his suggestion.


Ya hear what Dick says?' Jim Tyas
asked, when Hartas was on his feet again.
Ya hear that ? If ye'll promise we'll let ya
go, for te-meet. Ah'll noiin say it means
peace for ever; but ya can goa for this time,
if ya promise — promise to keep away fra Bab
Burdas, fra the loose she lives in — nay, fra
the carry toon!'

I will not make one of those promises
Hartas replied firmly and clearly.

He was not blind to his position. He knew
himself to be at the mercy of three strong,
unscrupulous, vengeful men — men to whom
revenge was as a natural instinct, not to be
subdued without dread of the slur of effeminacy.


Yet he did not yield.

1 1 will not make one of those promises,' he
said; and the reply came quickly :

You'll either promise or you'll go where
there'll be no more chance o' promising.'

Then I choose the latter.'

'You do?'

I do.'

1 Wi' yer eyes open ?'

More open than yours appear to be

Then lev at him, mates !' Jim Tyas exclaimed
savagely, preparatory to suiting his
action to his word; but Sampey made another
effort to arrest Jim's wild, mad impetuousness.


• It'll non do to further the fool —
remember that ; an' that'll be the end on't
afore we know, if we don't tak' care. . . .
Xoo think a minnie, Jim! An' let's they
this — let's put the idiot into yon boat o'
Dandy Will's, an' row him foot to sea, an'
leave him there — leave him if he won't promise,
fetch him back if he will!'

The suggestion was no sooner made than
steps were taken, to carry it into effect. Hartas
Theyn was bound with the ropes that were
only too ready, and then placed in one of
the tiny, gaily-painted little pleasure-boats
that had been moored alongside the quay.
The oars had been removed when the boat
was made fast. Very speedily the men launched
it, placed themselves in another and a larger
one, took the little craft in tow, and made
ready for starting. At the last moment Sampey
Verrill shouted :
Promise !'

'Never!'

Away the two boats went, the fishermen
pulling as if their lives depended on their
exertions, and in a few minutes they were out
upon the wide black ocean, full of revenge, of
triumph, of determination.

And Hartas Theyn's determination was as
strong as theirs. Though he lay in the boat,
bound hand and foot, shivering with cold now
that the struggle was over and he was out
upon the dark heaving water, he yet kept his
courage.

He was aware that the battle would be
fought out at sea, too far from the land for
any sound to be heard, any help afforded; yet
no thought of breaking his resolve came to
him. jSTo promise should be wrung from him
by such means as this.

AVith all his faults, he was yet no coward,
and the stubbornness natural to his race might
almost be counted as a virtue in a crisis like
this.

He knew that the present action was the
result of no deep-laid plot : yet had it been
so it could hardly have been more effective
for the purpose of the men who were concerned

in it. They were still pulling to the
utmost of their power. Hartas, raising himself
in the boat, watched the receding lights
of the Bight, and knew that they were going
rather to the north than to the south, though
he was well aware that this would signify
but little to him if they fulfilled their threat.
And that they would fulfil it he knew but too
certainly.

Till now that strange calm had lasted,
brooding ominously upon earth and sea ; but
Hartas became aware that change was impending.
A breeze was rising, beginning to sigh
and wail ; a chill, piercing breeze it was, and
the lapping of the waves by the very edge of the
little boat was a dreary sound in 'the ear of the
man who lay there anticipating the coming
ordeal, and nerving himself for it with what
strength was left him. But even yet he was
unshaken by any thought of yielding, of
surrender.

If it came to the worst, he could die, and
some day Bab might come to know how and
why he had died. That was the one comforting
thought that he had ; she might come to
know, she might even regret. And strange to

say it did comfort him, even this — that by his
death he might win

Such tears
As would have made life precious.'

Strange it is, and sad, that a human life
should so often miss the one human preciousness
— the preciousness of love, with all the
sympathy, all the compassion, all the sustenance
that a worthy love includes !

Strange and sad, for you, for me, if we
have so missed that best, lasting good; stranger
and sadder far to have known it and lost
it! Ah, that bitter, that unspeakably bitter
losing !

"Was Barbara Burdas to find how bitter it
was ? Were there any others who might see
and suffer, but too late ?

ALONE, ALONE, ON A WIDE, WIDE SEA!'

1 Then all was still. Upon me fell the night,
And a voice whispered to me, " Life is Past'" '

John Payne.

Still the two boats event onward over the
dark heaving sea ; the three rowers rowing
swiftly and silently as might be, under the
dark silent sky.

It was past midnight now; the heaving
water was heaving more strongly against the
sides of the little boat ; the heavy pall of
cloud was beginning to break and scatter and
drift wildly across the heavens ; now disclosing
a glimpse of the wan moon that was
riding high by this time, yet veiling her face,
as if not wishing to look upon that scene of
cruelty, of inhumanity.

Hartas Theyn was still awaiting the coming
vol. ii. 22

moment with sufficient fortitude ; and almost
he persuaded himself that he was indifferent.
Truth to say, young as he was, he was very
weary ; life had never been a very happy or
very pleasant thing to him. He had been to
blame, as he knew, and had confessed. He
had lived idly, carelessly, thoughtlessly; and,
worse than all (it seemed worse now in this
hour of testing), he had resisted the help of
those who would have helped him from himself.
This was the painful sting that lent its
piercing to the chill of the wind on the midnight
sea.

Yet it did not embitter his thought or
emotion. When at last the rowers laid their
oars on the rowlocks, and after brief consultation
turned to him, though his determination
was as resolute as before, he was less vehement
in the expression of it. He did not
even take the trouble to raise himself from the
side of the boat in which he lay bound.

Unfortunately Jim Tyas was the spokesman;
the rancorous and truculent one of the
three, though it may be that Dick Reah was
not far behind in evil will.

Here's a last chance for ya!' Jim shouted,

standing up in the stern of the larger boat,
and hauling the grating tow-rope as he spoke
so as to bring the two boats nearer. ' A last
chance! Give us yer word an' honour 'at
ye'll keep away fra' Barbara Burdas, an' fra
the Forecliff, an' we'll row ya back to the
quay wi' never another word ! But refuse,
an' you're left drifting' here, foot at sea, ov a
dark night, with never so much as a sail 1
sight, an' wi' never a bite o' meat, nor a sup
o' water ; left to drift te the north, or te the
south, as wind and wave may take you — or
what's likelier far, left to drift downwards to
the bottomless pit. Tak' yer choice.'

I've done so already.'

1 An' yer mind's non changed?'

Never for a second.'

1 It may be as you're over much of an idiot
to tak' in what we're meaning,' Dick Reah
broke in with characteristic impetuousness.
Think again, ya fool ! That'll ya do two
hours after this — ay, or less nor that, when
ya find the waves chopping over the sides o'
that bit o' boat you're in as if she were a
cockle-shell ? That'll you do then ? Think
on it for a moment — that is, if ya've brain

snuff to tak' it in. Think of hoo ye'll feel
when yare going' toon to the bottom, an' never
a soul near ya, even to see when or where ya
go.'

1 My brain can see all I wish to see, thank
you,' Hartas replied, speaking with a dignity,
a calmness so unusual as to be a surprise to
himself. He had not even raised his head ashe
spoke, and his tones were untainted by any
harshness, any defiance. A keen instinct
might have discerned an underlying sadness ;
but no such instinct was there out upon the
dark water. Still, Samson Merrill was moved
to make yet another effort.

Look here, you son of a squire — a
fine squire's son you are! But all the
same, look here— this is suicide you're committing'
!'

Or you are committing murder, which is
it ?' Hartas asked calmly.

An' what o' that ?' Jim Tyas asked mockingly.
' It 'ud not be the first murder done
on the seas atween the points of Ulvstan
Bight — no, not the first by a lot. There's
more sorts o' murder nor one. An' who'll
know o' this, think ya ?'

Caracas hesitated for one impressive moment ;
then he said quietly, emphatically :

1 It will be known. There will be evidence
you little dream of.'

What might move him to speak so, he
could hardly have told ; yet the quiet, oracular
tone in which he spoke was not without its
effect upon the men who heard. The night
was still a dark one ; the moon was behind a
bank of thick cloud ; the wind was wailing
sadly, wildly, coldly. Sampey Merrill, with
only his shore-going jacket on, was shivering
in a way he was not much acquainted with.
The wind he knew, and the sea he knew; but
strong and deep emotion was something to be
dreaded.

4 Are ya mad V Sampey asked, coming to
the stern of the boat, and standing a little
behind Jim Tyas. ' Are ya clean daft ?
Ya've only got to say a word, an' back
ye'll go, wi' no more harm upon ya nor if
yard been sitting' i' yer loan arm-chair.'

1 Oh, he'll sit on a soft, he will, wiv a
sixpenny cigar atween his lips,' Dick Reah
interposed by way of aside.

And Sampey Merrill added, perhaps not

without undertone of warning to his word :
The that'll do better nor even a soft.
It'll be more like a rocking' chair bv-and-
by.'

But the patience of Jim Tyas, never a
large store at the best, was being rapidly
exhausted.

We've had snuff o' this !' he exclaimed,
moving away with an impatient gesture.
Then, turning again to the stern of the boat,
taking a huge knife from his pocket, and
unclasping it with ostentation, he said, speaking
loudly, emphatically : ' Ah'll give ya a
last chance, an' then yer life '11 be i' yer loan
hand. Will ya mak' that promise, or will ya
not ?'

The answer came clearly, deliberately:

1 I ivill not.'

No more was said just then. None dared
to prevent Jim Tyas from cutting the rope
that held the smaller boat in tow ; strand bv
strand, and with scientific manipulation, he
did it. . . . There was only a last fibre.

Speak, ya fool !'

But no one spoke.

Hartas Theyn felt the moment when the

last strand was severed, the boat set adrift ;
he felt it through his very soul as with a
shock, yet comparatively but a slight shock.
It was much as if some one had opened a
vein in his body, from out of which his life
Avould slowly but surely flow.

For perhaps one minute the two boats had
drifted apart ; yet the space between was a
wide one. The sky seemed darker and
wilder ; the waters blacker and more turbulent.
Then once more a voice came from out
the distant gloom :

Will ya say that word, ya born idiot ?'

It was Samson Verrill's voice, and there
was an undertone of strong entreaty in it ; but
no response was made.

For a long while they listened, but there
came never any response.

4 HAST THOU THEN WRAPPED US IN THY
SHADOW, DEATH ?'

And yet that hollow moaning will not go,
Nor the old fears that with the sea abide.'

William M. W. Call.

As some of the older people had expected,
that night was one of the wildest nights
ever known on the north-east coast of England.


The story of it — or rather a mere outline
of the story — may be read in the local
chronicles of that day. It is told in the
usual brief, journalistic fashion how the
slow]) Joanna, of Sunderland, came ashore at
Flamboro' ; how her crew were drowned,
all but the little cabin-boy, who was washed
ashore, stunned and senseless, and awoke to
learn that his father had gone down in that

same squall only a few miles farther to the
south.

The next wreck to come ashore was the
schooner Viking. Though the vessel was
registered as sailing from Hild's Haven, the
crew were all of them Ulvstan men. There
were six of them — a father, his brother, his
three sons, and a cousin. They had been
caught out at sea suddenly during that wild
night, and almost immediately the little
vessel had sprung a leak. It had probably
seemed to the crew, in the first moments of
their danger, that it was a matter of congratulation
that distress had come upon them
so near to their own home. They made at
once for the Bight of Ulvstan ; but in those
days the men of the Bight had no help to
offer ; no lifeboat was stationed there, no
rocket-apparatus ; they could only go up to
the cliff-top with the wives and children, the
parents and sisters of the men in danger,
and watch there. They presently saw that
the crew had ' taken up aloft But the sea
was breaking over the rigging. One tremendous
wave was seen to wash several of them
off into the boiling surf ; this was about daybreak,

and at last the ship went clown. Before
she quite sank, the top-gall ant-mast was seen
to be out of the water, with men clinmn^ toit,
in sight of their agonized and powerless
friends. But the storm went on raging ; and
at last, one by one, the poor fellows were
seen to drop off, to battle with the furiously-dashing
sea below for a moment or two, and
then to go under.

If you should ask for any of the Burrells of
Ulvstan Bight now, you would receive for
answer, i The sea gat him /'

An hour or two later, when the crimson of
the rising sun had ceased to flush the tossing
surf with fiery colour, another vessel came insight,
remained visible for a few minutes, and
then suddenly disappeared with all hands onboard.
Later the hull of this brigantine
washed up, and her name-board proved her to
have been the Marie Siecle of Rotterdam.

The captain, a young man of not more than
five-and-twenty, was found lashed to the helm,
his right arm broken, a pitiless bruise on his
left temple. There was still a smile on the
dead placid face. A lovely miniature on ivory,
a portrait of a young girl, golden-haired (a

rich red gold it was), blue-eyed, crimson-tipped,
was near the heart of the drowned
captain of the Marie Sweden. Two days later
strangers laid him to rest in the quiet churchyard
at Market Yarburgh ; and he was not
unwept.

Naturally enough these days of storm and
stress were days of great excitement in
Ulvstan Bight. When the tide was out the
fisher-folk gathered about the sands and the
foot of the Forecliff ; when it Alas high and
the storm was at its worst, they went up to
the quay and to the ledges of shall rock that
ran to the southward of the Bight. This they
did especially when any sail was in sight,
watching the labouring of the distant vessel
as it passed from point to point, wondering
what its fate might be. But very few ships
passed by, and these were screw steamers for
the most part, more equal to the fight with
wind and wave than the wooden-built, canvas-sped
vessels that awoke so much more interest.
It was the oak or teak built brig, the white
sail, that aroused the fears of every heart
watching in or near the Bight of Ulvstan.

All clay the excitement was kept up in an

intermittent way, and at nightfall it increased.
There were two or three vessels in sight ; one
seemed as if it might hold on its way with
some chance of safety ; the second, a brigantine,
appeared to be driving more or less at
the mercy of the waves ; a third, the Lady
Godiva of Danesborough, a schooner with only
four men on board, was evidently trying to
make for the beach when the night began
to fall, and the chance for her crew, with
that awful sea whitening all the bay, seemed
very small indeed — they must surely know
how small, those poor storm-driven souls
whose own home was not so very far away.
Yes ; they would know all the coast, its
dangers, its advantages, its possibilities. Yet
they were trying to run aground in Ulvstan
Bight, that was evident.

It seemed as if not only the population of
Ulvstan was there to watch the on-coming
of the little schooner, but people from all
the neighbourhood round about. Barbara
Burdas, with two of the three little lads
beside her, was out upon the Forecliff. Old
Ephraim was down below answering Mrs.
Kerne's brusque questions with a quite

equal brusqueness, yet he was not at all averse
from receiving a shilling for his apparently
grudgingly-given information. Jim Tyas,
with Dick Reah, Samson Verrill, and a dozen
others, were by the edge of the quay, waiting
in readiness to do aught that might be done,
waiting patiently, watching closely, almost
silently. If they grieved that they could do
so little, their grief was not audible.

More than one there present noticed how
downcast some few of these fishermen seemed
that day ; but none dreamed that they had
other cause for being dispirited than the very
natural sympathy they must be feeling for
those in danger. Their close watching was
approved, their patient waiting commended.
Though no boat might be launched in such a
sea, yet all else that might be done in readiness
to help was done, and with an almost
passionate eagerness. And no one was
handier in coiling ropes than Samson Verrill ;
no one took more trouble to see that the tar-barrels
were rightly prepared than Dick Reah.
Jim Tyas was more sullen, more restless ; and
shook off poor Nan when she went down to
the quay with some hot coffee in a can for him,

with a harshness of manner he was never to
repent of.

Nan's eyes filled with tears as she turned
away ; and others saw and were sorry, even
some of the roughest of them felt pain. They
knew that Nan was not well just now, and
that she had fought her way down to the
quay at one of the wildest moments of the
gale, with a furious rain beating upon her ;
all were things to be remembered afterward —
too late.

Yet it was Jim Tyas who improvised the
life-line that was to be flung on board the
schooner if she came near enough to be helped
so ; he it was who kept to the quay and to
the ForeclifF, while others went home to snatch
a hasty meal.

He's non such a bad 'un after all, isn't
Jim!' said some of the old fishermen, watching
his alertness with a certain pride as in
some way belonging to themselves. He was
not much liked, he had often made himself to
be dreaded, though his temper was rather of
the bitter than of the passionate type. Yet
he could be violent enough on occasion. He
was best known for his daring, his wild

and reckless daring ; courage, one called it ;
fool-hardiness, another ; yet none had ever
doubted his desperate bravery. More than
one man living in the Bight knew well that
he owed his life to the eager temerity of Jim
Tyas.

They were watching there in the deepening
twilight. Groups of sailors and fisher-folk
were down on the as yet uncovered beach; the
women and children were for the most part on
the quay. There was a carriage or two at the
bottom of the hilly road that led down into
the Bight from Yarva, and from the moorland
townlet of Kildwick. It seemed as if few
could rest in their own warm and comfortable
homes on such a nifdit as this.

All day Damian Aldenmede had been there.
At first he had tried to sketch, to put on
canvas the fierce, wild rolling and curving of
the waves — waves more dread, more masiiin-
cent than any he had ever seen ; but he had
soon to desist. It was like trying to make
artistic capital of some influence that was
appalling, impressing his inmost nature. Ina
word, he was too greatly overcome by' the
force of the spirit of the storm to make use of

his talent. He had known nothing like this
before.

He could not paint or sketch, he could
hardly think to any definite end. AVhat responsive
man or woman can ever use the
]power of thought to any intelligible purpose
during a hurricane that is sweeping both land
and sea? The least sensitive person must
surely be unstrung. The sound alone — the
loud, continuous, nerve-wearing, brain-racking
sound must of itself be sufficient to untune
every string of the chords of human life.
And then there is always some dread present,
either in the background, or in the forefront
of sensation. And it is a strange, peculiar,
magnetic kind of dread, for some of us much
akin to that which strains the soul when the
earth is all a- tremble beneath one's feet. . . .
It is only when the storm has ceased, only
when the wind lies dead upon land and sea,
only when the ocean is stilled to an almost
appalling stillness, that one can at all measure
the depth of prostration one has reached. If
the tension be taken off suddenly the reaction
is almost indescribable.

Damian Aldenmede was all unaccustomed

to the strain caused by a storm at the sea's
marge. He could not realize it, or understand
it altogether, and consequently he gave to
other perturbing causes more than their due
share in his perturbation.

Twice or thrice during that day he had
seen Canon Godfrey in the Bight ; once he
had met him coming out from the cottage
where the poor little shipwrecked lad was
lying, conscious now of the fact that he had
been left fatherless, and, since his captain was
gone and his shipmates, almost friendless.
The Canon grasped the artist's hand warmly,
hurriedly. ' AVe must look to the little
stranger,' he said, passing on to the next
cottage, where an old woman, mother of one
of the drowned Barrel family, was sitting-alone,
stunned, tearless, resentful, waiting for
someone to listen to her raving against the
ways of God and man. No such task had
ever had to be met by Hugh Godfrey as that
which fell to him under the low red roof of the
Burrells.

The long, gray, stormy twilight, how it
seemed to linger that evening! The groups
of anxious people gathered and grew ; the

vol. 11. 23

great waves rose, and tossed, and fell in long,
whitening lines upon the beach. The little
schooner was still struggling bravely, but ah !
how slowly, toward the land where alone was
safety.

And now once again the Canon and Damian
Aldenmede met; it was at the point where the
road that crossed the Forecliff joined the path
that led to the new promenade. There was a
tiny wooden bridge across the beck that ran
down from the moors above to the sea. Close
at hand a coastguarclsman's cottage stood
behind trim garden palings. Some fisher-folk
were grouped about the little gate, the
gray road that led up the hill behind was
lined on either hand by people seeking the
slight shelter afforded by the rising ground.
Everywhere the same subdued excitement was
noticeable.

What do you think?' the artist was asking.
What do you think of the chances of the
schooner? Is there any hope for . . .'

Mr. Aldenmede' s question was never finished.
There was a sudden commotion among the
little crowd by the coastguardsman's gate ;
a stepping aside as if to make way ; a

murmur of consternation ; a white figure
flying down the dark road! The Canon
turned in instant anxiety, and the artist's
sympathy was with him. Then, all at
once, as if Thorhilda had known where
her uncle must be, she flew to him, clinging
to his arm with pathetic fervour of tenderness.


'Is it you? Sit Uncle Hugh?' she cried,
gasping between each word, being so very
breathless. ' Is Hartas with you ? . . . Is he?
. . Surely he is?'

She could say no more just then, and the
Rector, seeing how it was with her, placed her
arm within his own, and drew her away from
the gaping little crowd that had gathered
round.

1 Come with me,' he said gently. ' Come
into Mackenzie's cottage. . . . Aldenmede,
will you see if Mrs. Mackenzie has come
home ?'

23—2

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

NAN Twas AND HER TROUBLES.

Let not the waters close above my head,
Uphold me that I sink not in this mire :
For flesh and blood are frail and sore afraid ;
And young I am, unsatisfied and young,
With memories, hopes, with cravings all unfed,
My song half-sung, its sweetest notes unsung,
All plans cut short, all possibilities.'

Christina Rossetti.

Thus invited, the artist was well content to
accompany them, to see Miss Theyn seated by
the cottage fire, trying to collect herself, to
overcome her emotion ; but it was evident
that these things were difficult to her.

Have you not seen Hartas V she asked,
still speaking with effort. 'lie is missing !
He has not been at home all day, all night !
Some time yesterday he left the Grange, and
they have not seen him since ! . . . Khoda is
at the Rectory, with Aunt Milicent. . . . She

has walked all the way from the Grange alone
and in this storm to see if we could tell her
anything about him. . . . Poor Rhoda, she
cares so much more about him than I ever
dreamed she did. . . . She guessed when I
was there yesterday that I had something
particular to say to him. As I told you, he
was out ; but I ought to have gone before. . . .
I ouodit to have done something. I teas asked
to warn him ! . . . And I did not. . . . How
shall I bear it '{ — how shall I bear ? . . . What
can they have done, those enemies of his V

1 You know nothing more than you told.
me of before ?' the Canon asked. ' You told
me that Xan Tyas had intimated that some
harm was intended him ; you know no more V

1 know nothing but that. Surely it is
enough. And I did not forget — not for a
second. But I wanted to see Hartas alone, to
talk to him a little, that is, to appeal to him.
. . You have not seen him. since ■'

Not since that moment I told you something
of — the moment when we parted on the
sands, and he gave me such hope of his
future.'

It was strange how the Canon's heart sank,

remembering that hour. Of this he did
not speak, but for a moment he left the room.
Thorhilda had seen that the blue, kindly eyes
were bright with unshed tears.

She made a momentary effort. ' You have
not seen my brother, Mr. Aldenmede, I need
hardly ask V she said.

Then, worn out by physical fatigue, by
mental strain, she closed her eyes and sank
back in her chair ; and he saw by the dread
pallor on her face that she was unconscious.
The sight was strangely overwhelming, almost
paralysing;

My child ! my child /' he exclaimed, in a
subdued, agonizing tone, as he took her cold
hands in his and chafed them. It was only a
moment or two before consciousness began to
return. Her colour came back with a sudden
betraying flush. Had she heard ? And what
exactly had he said? He hardly knew.
Canon Godfrey was re-entering the little
room ; Mrs. Mackenzie was coming with a
cup of tea - s Miss Theyn, recovering herself,
was asking :

What can we do ? . . . Uncle Hugh, you
will do something f for my sake you will do

something. I feel as if it were all on my
head, on my own head. Remember that. I
ought to have made more effort, but I did not
dream of anything happening yet ; how should
I ? And now it may be too late — it may be !
. . What can we do ?'

There are some things to be done at once
the Canon replied, with peremptoriness. c You
must, in the first place, take this tea. . . .
You have acted with sufficient unwisdom for
one day, Thorda dear. The carriage could
have been brought round in ten minutes, and
in the end you would have been here much
sooner. Xow you must please obey me. Mr.
Aldenmede will get a cab ; he will take you
home in it, and then he will come back, and
help me to do all that may be done. . . . You
see I am counting upon you in a very cavalier
fashion,' he added, turning to Aldenmede.
But this is no time for deliberate courtesies.
o . . I need not ask if you will do all you
can V

The artist was not one to deal in words at
such a moment.

I will do all I may do, and gladly he replied.
But the restrained, eager fervidness of

his tone said more than many eloquent
phrases.

It was about this time that somehow, no
one ever knew exactly how, the news was
flashed about Ulvstan Bight that Hartas
Theyn was missing ; that he had been missing
since the previous day. . . . This was Miss
Theyn's motive for flying all the way from
Yarburgh Rectory on a stormy evening with
only a white shawl for protection. The sensation
seemed to mingle itself with that that
was gathering about the little schooner that
was struggling to reach the Bight with her
crew of four exhausted men — each man now
lashed to the rigging. Once, about an hour
earlier, a flash had been seen ; the dull boom
of a signal gun had struck upon the ears of
the waiting, helpless, saddened crowd. That
was the last effort, the last appeal. And no
answer could be made — none. There was no
lifeboat in that little bay.

Had a boat been there, there were fifty r men
from whom a crew of twelve might have been
chosen.

Surely all the people of the neighbourhood
must now have been there by the sea's wild

margin ! Gray-headed men and women, who
had lived by the sea, and toiled by it, and
suffered by it ; little children, whose brief life
was all bound up with the sea-life of the place ;
young men, strong, anxious, eager to fight for
the lives of these men, their fellows, bound
helplessly there in the rigging of the drifting
ship, yet having no means of fighting ; young-maidens
excited by sympathy, prayerful, tearful,
calm, hysterical — all these and others
were there ; emotion mingling with emotion ;
thoughts, hopes, regrets, repentance finding
expression in that unwonted moment that
might have remained unexpressed for ever in
the routine of daily existence.

The twilight yet lingered ; the tide was not
yet at its highest. The little vessel, with her
black hull, could be seen quite distinctly as
she tossed there in the white surf. She yet
held together, and she was beating in ; these
were the sole grounds for hoping.

Intense as were the hopes, the fears, that
held that multitude of people in a common
thrall, the news that the Rector's niece had
brought to the Bight was by no means ignored.
All at once the feeling that some dark

deed had been perpetrated seemed to seize the
people. No one knew how this idea had
arisen, yet it was there ; and almost immediately
spoken of more or less openly.

They've done it — them Andoes,' old Dan
Furniss said at once. l Ne'er a worse woman
lived nor old Sure, an' they're all of a breed,
'kept David ; an' he's like snuff a changing',
whoa knows ? WT such a family as yon —
whoa knows % But that's neither here nor
there ! What ha' they done wi' the young
Squire ? Hes non sa much, or he'd never ha'
set his heart on a whither-picker ! But for
all that they're scarce Within the law o'
the land i' murclerin' him ! . . . An' whoa,
knows V

Such were the words, the hints, the suggestions,
that flew round the Bight on that wild
autumn evening.

Did they hear, those three men who had
rowed out to sea the night before, towing a
tiny boat which they had cut adrift miles from
the land ?

Did they need to hear any spoken word ?
Was not the voice of the stormy sea as it
rolled and broke and thundered at the foot

of the cliffs— was not this sufficiently informing
?

Who can say what it was that was lending
such desperation to their effort to save life —
the lives of those comparative strangers that
fate was driving into their hands ?

As everyone saw, the men of Ulvstan were
doing their utmost. A tar-barrel had been
lighted on the beach, indicating the spot
toward which the schooner's crew might aim
with some hope of deliverance — supposing any
power of aiming anywhere were left to them.
Very soon after this it was perceived that they
had abandoned themselves to the mercy of
wind and wave.

The gun had been fired at sea ; the burning
tar-barrel had answered on the shore ; and
now out u}:>on the Balderstone — a long, dark
tongue of low-lying rock that stretched across
the bay at a right angle from the cliff, some
fifty men and lads of the place were assembled,
a few with ropes, a few with flares
of blazing pitch or tar. They were all anxious,
ail ready, a few pressed forward in a very passion
of desperate eagerness.

It was just then that Nan Tyas and Bab

Burdas met unexpectedly on a shelving part
of the Forecliff. Xan was sobbing, shivering,
trying to cover herself with a little red woollen
handkerchief that was about her neck. Bab
saw and understood, and was all compassion
in a moment,

1 Ya daft lass !' she exclaimed, unfastening
her own big warm Scotch plaid, and pinning;
it in motherly fashion about the young fishwife's
shoulders. ' Ya daft body ! What are
ya coin' here ? You've no right to be out o'
doors at all ! Onely hear tell o' ya been' i*
bed the next thing !'

Nan's first answer was a deeper sob ; then
at last words came.

4 Eh, but you're a good friend, Bab, an'
kind ! As for stain' indoors, it's non sa
easy at a time like this !'

You're getthV nervous, Xan, an' no
wonder! What's your mother about 'at
she's not lookin' after ya ?'

My mother !' Xan exclaimed, checking
her tears for the moment, and lifting her face
with a look of scorn upon it. ' My mother !
. . Eh, well, she is my mother, so mebbe
I'd better say no more ; but it's little ya

know o' her if ya think she'd put herself foot
o" the way for me. . If I thought I'd ever
live to be as hard to a bairn o' mine, I'd wish
to die to-night, afore tomorrow. . . . But
what am I saying' ? She is my mother!'

1 Don't say no more of her, Nan — not just
now,' Bab urged gently and kindly. 4 You're
non dependent on her now. . . . Surely
Jim's kind snuff ?'

Bab had no idea of being inquisitive. She
was only wondering how far she need go
in case of Nan being in any trouble or
danger.

For awhile Nan did not reply. Then she
said sadly and slowly :

1 Off an' on he's kind ; there's worse nor
he is.'

It was evident that she wished to say no
more ; and Bab understood and was silent in
her compassion, but she drew a little nearer
to Nan, and watched her in the motherly
protecting way that was an instinct always,
when anyone needed her care. Nan was well
able to appreciate kindness.

And still the storm seemed to be increasing.
The few stars that had appeared in the sky

were obscured, the heavens became one black
mass of cloud, and suddenly from out the
mass there came a vivid, blinding flash of
lightning, disclosing the scene in the Bight
with painful clearness. The schooner was
still there, her dark hull rocking slowly in
the white waves, her masts still standing,
and apparently two at least of the crew had
descended from the rigging. The crowd of
men were still clustering upon the tongue
of rock : some of them seemed quite near the
ship. In point of fact, they were holding a
difficult conversation with the master and
mate of the Lady Godiva. The lightning
flash silenced the speakers for the moment.

Then came the thunder, loud, dread, long-continued,
seeming as if it silenced all things.

You nun go home, Nan !' Bab urged
again, her sympathy roused to the uttermost
by the uncontrollable tremor of the girl at
her side. ' You're none well ! You nun go
home

4 Let ma wait a bit longer —-just a bit
Nan begged with a new quietness, a new
gentleness. ' I'd like to see what comes o'
yon schooner.'

'at midnight, when the cry was made.'

" Love me in sinners and in saints,

In each who needs or faints,' —
Lord, I will love Thee as I can
In every brother man.

" All sore, all crippled, all who ache,
Tend all for My dear sake,' —
All for Thy sake, Lord : I will see
In every sufferer Thee."

Christina Rossetti.

It was just at that moment that old Ephraim
Burdas came up to the point of the Forecliff
where Barbara and Xan were standing. Bab
saw at once that he was somewhat excited,
and longing to unburden himself of the cause
of his excitement.

'What's i' the wind noo, grandfather ?' she
asked. ' What have ya heard that's new ?
Nought 'at's good such a day as this, I'm
fearing

1 Good or bad — whoa can saiiy ?' exclaimed
the old man. ' Think ov a lady like yon,
dressed all i' white, fra the crown of her head
te the sole of her foot, flying' cleon fra Hamburgh
Rectory, all aleiin, an' wi' never a hat
nor a bonnet on her head! Think on it!
An' a storm like this rain' — wind an' rain,
an' thunder an' leetnin', an' slush an' mud —
think on it! An what's she done it for?
All cause yon scapegrace brother of hers is
mission'. Mission' ? Nea doubt on it ; an'
mission' he'll be! Mission' ? Some o' them
Andoes could tell what sort o' missing it
means. They're bad snuff for ought — all
bat Dave ; an' as for Jim Tyas. . . /

4 Gran father F Bab exclaimed warmly,
feeling the heavy weight of poor Xan, as the
young fishwife reeled and fell against her.
For all Bab's strength it was as much as she
could do to sustain the half conscious form.
She had no time or opportunity to realize
the stun and hurt that the old man's words
had been to her own brain. But almost
immediately Xan made a great effort — there
was need for it — and recovered herself sufficiently
to say :

1 Keep a quiet tongue i' yer head, Barbie.
I'll tell ya what Ah know ; it isn't much,
but I'll tell ya by-an'-by.'

That was all Nan could say just then ;
and she spoke the truth in saying that she
did not know much.

One thing everybody knew. Dandy Will's
little boat had been missed at daybreak ; but
that such a tiny craft should have broken
from its moorings and drifted out to sea
during such a night as that just passed was
far too commonplace a matter to attract much
remark. Why had not the owner taken the
trouble to do what the owners of other boats
had done — draw his little possession up to the
side of the ForeclifF, and turn her upside-down
among the grass and the gray-green
bents ? Who could pity him ?

Perhaps it was fortunate for Bab that she
had Nan to think of and care for in this first
moment. Still she began to feel as if her
own strength were being taken from her ; asia
she must be growing cold and white and!
ill. Miss Theyn was there in the Bight ?'
Her brother Hartas was missing ? People
were suspecting foul play? Surely her little

vol. 11. 24

world was crumbling beneath her feet ! Yes,
certainly it was well that Bab had to give
the best energy she had left to the suffering
girl by her side.

1 You'll go home now, Nan !' she said
entreatingly. But Xan was not yet to be
persuaded.

1 Hoo ya talk !' she replied, with the mingled
tremor of cold and fear and pain in her voice.
1 Go home, an' him toon there, bent o' ruskin'
his life as he were never bent afore ! It's been
on him all day, that desperateness ! . . . Eh
me! it's been the strangest day o' my life —
the strangest of all. . God send Ah may
never know such another!'

Sobs prevented Nan's utterance of any
further foreboding. By this time the lightning
was flashing across the bay with some
frequency, the thunder rolling and crashing
with appalling nearness ; the white waves
were still flying and tossing clown below.

Every now and then the schooner could
be seen ; the long dark Balderstone, with a
few men yet remaining upon it, lingering
there because of their humane errand. There
were not more than five or six of them now ;

the rest had fled with the rising of the tide.
warning the others that the deep gutter that
surrounded the rock was already T filled with
water. Jim Tyas and Samson Verrill were
among those who remained, beseeching the
crew of the Lady Godiva to leave the vessel
while yet there was time.

Again Jim Tyas was the spokesman. He
knew the captain of the little ship, knew
that he was part owner as well as captain,
and he knew also that, for*econoury's sake,
she had not been insured. If she were lost
that night, left to the mercy of the wild
waters of Ulvstan Bight, all was lost so far
as Jonas Lee was concerned. He would bea
penniless man. His crew knew this, and
held by their captain bravely.

'There's no more nor five minutes noo!'
Jim Tyas urged, apparently moved by such
urgent compassion as had never moved him
before. * Give us a rope ! We'll land the
lot on ya i' less time nor it's ta'en us to talk
of it'

The captain shook his head ; being an old
man his voice could hardly be heard above
the roar of that wild storm ; and the rest of

24—2

the crew made no reply. They were free to do
as they would, and their freedom might have
meant their death-warrant had fate so willed it.

A few more words passed between the
men on the shuddering vessel and those who
would save them even from their own self-sacrifice.
Then all at once a cry was heard,
the cry of men suddenly, wildly despairing.
One of the five fishermen who had stayed on
the Balderstone discovered all at once that
their sole chance of escape was cut off. They
Avere surrounded by the rising tide. A rush
was made ; the men on the deck of the
schooner, exhausted as they were, fired another
flare, as if to help the fishermen who
were making that desperate rush through the
tossing, hurling waves.

1 Follow me !' Jim Tyas shouted, as he
dashed foremost into the surf at the one
point whence escape might be possible. And
the men followed him. Again, in the middle
of the narrow channel, they heard his voice.
It sounded strange and faint and heavy, yet
the word was encouraging. < Follow me !'

And they did follow him, through the
fierce, fatal, narrow sea ; but not to his doom.

Whether he had struck his head upon some
point of rock, or whether some piece of floating
wreck had struck him, none knew, none
ever might know.

When Jim Tyas washed up, as he did
within half an hour of his leaving the Balder-stone,
he was bruised and hurt, and cold and
dead.

They dared not tell Xan the truth — no
one ever did tell her. She saw it in the
look of the men who had escaped so hardly
from the rocky peninsula, and who came upto
the Forecliff with torn and bleeding hands,
with white and ghastly faces, with dripping
hair and clothing, and the smell of the salt
seaweed about them everywhere.

Xan met them, looked upon them — there
were four where five had been. All her
questioning was in that one look. She turned
away silently, quite quietly. Only Barbara
Bur cas turned with her.

Come wi' me, Xan, come home wi' me.
You'll be quieter there nor anywhere else.
. . An' there's non i' the world '11 do better
by ya. Say you'll come !'

Xan made no reply, but she permitted herself

to be led away, Bab's arm round her,
Bab's soothing word in her ear.

All that night Bab had no thought of
herself, of her own strange grief. How should
she? Dr. Douglas came and went ; old
Hagar F amiss came and stayed. Suzie
Andoe refused to come, and Xan never asked
for her. She asked for nothing, for no one.
She made no moan.

It was some time about midnight when
her baby was born — a fine, fair woman-child
as any mother need wish to look upon.

But it was evident that poor Xan's heart
sank still lower, hearing what was said.

c Don't say it's a girl, Barbie, dont. I'd
liefer you'd say it were dead-born nor tell
me it's a girl! . . . Poor folk should never

ha' nowt but lads They can fight

their own way, lads can! They've less to
suffer. . . . Xobocly never dreams o' what
women has to go through, when they're poor,
oh, God, no ! . . . Does God Himself know o'
what women bears — an' nobody to 'give em a
thought ; nobody to make nought no easier
for 'em? . . . Does He know? . If He
does, why doesn't He put it into the hearts o'

rich folk to think, to help a bit? . . . They
could do such a lot ! Oh, do they ever think
o' what they could do? . . . Why doesn't He
make 'em think? . . . Why a' easier bed, a
softer pilla, a better blanket, a few better bits
of under things for one's sel' an' for the bairn,
they'd all make a difference, a strange difference.
. . . Not 'at I've aught to complain on
noo, no ; but that's your coin', Barbie. . . .
Gie me a kiss ! . . . You'll be as good to the
little un as ya've been to me?'

Nannie, be still !' Barbara sobbed, kissing
the dying woman as she spoke. But Bab did
not dream that death was near. She sat on
the edge of her own little bed where Nan lay ;
all was quiet, and clean, and warm. The
doctor had gone, saying that he would return
presently ; and Hagar Furniss shook her old
head wisely when she heard this, saying
nothing of her fear to Bab. It was poor Nan
herself who first awoke the dread that was
slumbering in Barbara's brain.

Gie me a word Nan whispered after a
brief silence. ' I'll sleep quieter under the sod
if ye'll say one word. You'll be a mother to
the little un !'

'Me be a mother to her!' Bab said, restraining
herself. ' But where* s the good o'
talking to-night, when you're sa down?
You'll be a mother to her herself.'

Then ye'll non promise, Barbara?'

Promise ! What need o' promise, Nan ?
D'ye think 'at I'd ever see the bairn want so
long as I'd bite or sup for myself' ?' Then she
put out her hand, and took Xan's chill fingers
in her own. ' Be at rest,' she said. ' If the
little un ever wants any mother but you, I'll
be proud to take your place. . . . Eh, me !
Anybody 'ud be proud of a bairn like this.
Why there's princesses 'ud give a thousand
pound to lev one like it! . Be at rest
about her, Xan.'

The poor girl smiled faintly, opened her
eyes, in which there was a new, soft, strange
light, and clasped Barbara's hand more
strongly and warmly in her own.

1 It is good o' ya, Barbara, it is good ! But
you were alius like that, alius so different frame.
. . . Ah've never been good myself',
though Dave's said so much, an' tried so
hard. . . . But Ah wasn't like him — no, never.
. . Will Ah be forgiven, d'ye think?'

1 The Bible says so, if yare sorry.'

Ah'm sorry enough noo. . . . Ah've often
been sorry when Ah couldn't say so. . . .
An' Ah dont know how to say noa prayers
nor nothing. . . . Could you say one — a
prayer, Barbie? Ah'd like ya to, if ya can.
. . But afore ya do, will ye say again 'at
ya won't forsake the little lass? . . . If ever
the 7 " take her fra ya, her father's folk, ya
won't forget her?'

'Me forget! . . . What's the girl thinking
on? . . . Hevn't Ah said 'at ya were to set
yer mind at rest?'

Barbara was still sitting on the edge of the
bed ; the chill hand of the dying mother was
still clasped in her own strong and warm one.
But even yet Barbara did not dream that the
end was near. Strange to say she had never
witnessed the oncoming of the last enemy
save in that hour when her father and mother
had struggled with him in the deep waters of
Ulvstan Bight. Now all was different.

Bab thought awhile, praying silently with
closed eyes, then a few tremulous and
reverent words came audibly. Nan was comforted.


Presently she spoke again :

1 I'm still thinking' o' the little lass,' she
said. ' It's a strange thought mebbe, but I
would like ta call her after yon lady — her ya
think so much on ! . . . Would she take it
badly, d'ye think?'

Take it badly ! None her ! . . . She'll be
ever sa proud to know ya wish it.'

Then will ya tell her?'

Ay, or you'll tell her yourself.'

Xo ; Ah'll non do that, not now. . . .'
Then there came a pause. Old Hagar was
dozing by the crackling fire, the clock ticked
loudly. Presently Xan spoke again :

Barbie ! . . . Ah'll non live till the
morning she said slowly and feebly. ' Ah'm
dying noo. . Ah know Ah'm dying!
Give me another kiss. . . . An' be good to
the little lass. . . . An' Barbie, say that
prayer again. . . . Ah'd like ya te be savin'
that just when Ah go. Ah'd like ya te be
speaking' a word for me then ! 'T would go wi'
me like. . . . Ah'd not seem to be sa lone —
not . . . not sa desert lone!'

Conjecture VAGUE.

Strew on her roses, roses.

And never a spray of yew !
In quiet she reposes ;

Ah, would that I did too !'

Matthew Arnold.

It is strange, recalling the story of the seato
remember how often desperate effort has
been made, lifeboats launched, rockets fired,
men's lives sacrificed, in the desire to aid
some ship's crew, while afterward that crew
have been able calmly to leave their stranded
vessel, to walk ashore without danger or difficulty.
It is strange, and it is sad ; yet no
human forethought may avert such sad-seeming
incidents.

It happened thus, precisely thus, to the
crew of the Lady Godiva. They clung to
their vessel, and about three o'clock on the

following morning they descended from the
side to the beach as if no very extraordinary
escape had been theirs. It even seemed to
some matter for congratulation that only one
life was lost in connection with the wreck of
the schooner, and that the life of a man not
too highly respected or too greatly beloved.

Yet the death of Jim Tyas made sensation
enough on the ForeclifF, and far beyond ; and
that the poor girl-wife should have laid down
her life with his did not make the sensation
less. The child, left so solemnly to Bab
Burdas, would have been a cause of curiosity
had Bab permitted ; but she did not, and, as
old Mrs. Andoe said, in an aggrieved tone —
Nobody dares say " wrong does she do " !'

As a matter of course, Bab had admitted
old Suzie to see her little grandchild, and the
child's dead mother. Suzie had wept, knelt,
prayed, wept again, and thanked Bab almost
abjectly for her goodness.

Barbara stood strong, and silent, and pale,
dreading the next event ; but there was not
much need for dread.

You must say once for all what you mean
to do, Susan,' Bab began, speaking even more

gravely and weightily than was her wont.
I've told you what she said, her that's lying
there on my own pillow. IVe repeated what
she said almost with her last breath, an IVe
told you my own wish an' all. But for all
that, you're the bairn's grandmother, an' the
mother o' her 'at's lying' there. So speak, but
let it be once for all. D'ye want to take the
child, te bring it up as you've brought upmost
o' yer own — i' rags, i' misery, i' dirt,
i' hunger, i' ignorance, i' wickedness? I'm
non spain' you, as mebbe I ought to ha'
done, seen' as yer hair's gray, an' yer head
trembling'. But I've no patience with you —
I never had. . . . Still, if yer bent on takin'
the bairn fra me, take it ! I'll none forget it,
for her sake. But if you've ony regard for her
last word, you'll leave it here, where it lies.'

Another gush of ready tears was the first
answer, and Bab, not being trained to refinement
of humanity, turned away impatiently.
Then all at once her conscience troubled her.
She would have spoken again, and more
kindly, but Susan prevented her.

4 Dei as ya will, Bab ; dea as ya will !
What could Ah mak' of a little wrecking' like

yon at this tame o' day? . . . Naiiy, Ah
can non be bothered wi' it. . . . Ah'd get
noa sleep of a night, other me nor Pete.
We're over oat te take a new-born bairn!
Dea as ya will, Bab. Ah'll never goii again
ya!'

1 You promise? . . . You won't take the
child away fra me when I've got her bey one]
been' a burden?'

Noa. Ah'd non do that, Bab. . . .
You're hard, so they all say ; you're hard
when ya do tak' again anybody. . . . But
you're good to children, they allow that. It's
such as Dave you're hard wiv. an' such as
yon son o' the Squire's. . . . Eh, hoo'ivver
can ya rest i' the loose, an know, . . . nay,
what is Ah saying' ? Ya know nowt — nobody
does — that's the worst on't. It 'ud non
seem sa bad if anybody knew.'

All at once Bab's attention had been arrested.
She had turned so as to face old
Susan, watching her closely, almost fiercely.

'Nobody does know, ya say? That's a
lie — a downright lie! Ya know herself!'

It was in vain the old woman denied,
protested, shuffled, wept, denied again. The

more she protested, the less Bab believed
her.

Now look here, Suzie,' Bab said at last.
1 If ya don't tell me all ya know about young
Theyn, I go straight this very hour to Dr.
Douglas an' tell him what I know, what I
know about the watch that Miss Douglas
lost on the sands two years agone. . . . Oh,
don't look sa startled ; ya know all about
that !'

Poor old Snzie ! She could hardly be said
to turn pale, but the smoke-brown tint of
her face yielded to a mingled green and
yellow ; her lips dropped apart, her eyes
stared angrily.

4 A watch ! . . . What are ya talking' on,
Bab ? Are ya daft to-night ? What are ya
meaning' ?'

1 Ah'm non one to waste words !' Bab
replied curtly. ' You know what I mean !
. . You know what I'm going to do — that
is, unless ya tell me what they've done toto
him ya spoke of— Squire Theyn's son !
. . Tell the truth, an' all the truth, or I start
for Yarburgh within five minutes

It was of no avail that the old woman

denied all knowledge of the matter Barbara
spoke of. She had to disclose all she knew ;
indeed, all she conjectured at last. It was
not much ; but Bab was satisfied that no
more was to be extracted.

1 Ah can only guess,' the poor old ft wife
said. ' I heard a word, only a word ; 'twas
poor Jim spoke it. An' then somebody said
as how Dandy "Will's little boat w r ere mission',
an Ah couldn't but put two an' two together.
. . An' noo, if ya tell o' ma, they'll murther
ma, as sure as Ah'm tannin' here ! But ya
won't, Bab ; Ah knows ya won't. . . . Ya were
never one o' the leaky sort !'

Bab's heart was palpitating ; her eyes
seemed blinded w 7 with a mist, not of tears, but
certainly of emotion. Though Susan had
done no more than confirm poor Nan's word,
the confirmation w r as more than Bab could
easily bear then.

The storm w r as still raging, the wind was
howling round the little cottage, w r ailing in
the chimney, beating at the door, shuddering
at the window. Even there, in the middle of
the Forecliff, the sound of the sea thundering
at the foot of the cliffs, breaking upon the

shore, booming, as it were, in the very ears
of those who listened, and of those who
would fain cease from listening — even there
the violence of the storm seemed sufficiently
appalling. What must it be out at sea ?
What could it be to any man exposed to
the worst? — on the deck of a ship for
instance, or lashed in the rigging, as those
had been lashed in the Bight below. That
any man should be out in such a storm
in a small boat and live was an idea to
be mocked at, if any had heart for such
mockery.

Bab had stood by her own fireside, silent
for a while ; but at last she spoke :

Ya can go noo, Suzie,' she said at last,
speaking gently enough now. ' The funeral
11 be the day after tomorrow. The rector's
been here, an' he says Miss Theyn's going' to
tak' all the expense herself'. Ah'll let her doit
; I wouldn't ha let nobody else. . It maybe
a bit o' satisfaction to her. She'll ha'
trouble snuff now. . . . She cared for him —
him 'at they've done to death foot o' spite. .
An' now go, Susan. . . . An' if ya can fetch
any news — news o' him — I'll pay ya as ya

vol. ii. 25

never was paid for no piece o' work since you
were born. . . . Remember that

Susan Andoe had hardly left the door of the
cottage on the Forecliff, when Bab, a little to
her surprise, saw two other figures approaching
— an elderly, worn, sorrowful-looking man,
and a young girl wrapped in a gray cloak,
with the hood drawn over her head in place of
hat or bonnet, a wise enough arrangement on
such a day.

Intuitively Bab recognised Squire Theyn
and his younger daughter ; and when the old
man knocked at the door Bab was at least
as white, as much overcome by emotion, as
Rhoda herself was. She listened to the
Squire's questions — questions put briefly,
calmly, and with dignity, and she answered
with a dignity at least equal to that she
heard.

4 1 know but little, but very little, sir
she replied. The wind was shaking the door
so violently that she could hardly hold it,
hardly hear herself speak. c What I do
know I'll tell ya if ya come into the
house.'

That I will not do,' the Squire replied.

How can you ask it ? . . . Tell me what you
know about my son.'

Bab grew so pale that even Rhoda grew
pitiful.

If you know anything, do tell us,' Rhoda
urged in her hoarse low-pitched voice. There
was trouble in it, as Bab heard.

In very few words Barbara told the Squire
what she had gathered, what she feared. This
she did without betraying either the dead or
the living.

Squire Theyn listened, looked into the face
of the girl who was speaking with a dazed,
wondering look, as if he hardly understood.
Then he turned away, stunned, silent. For
above an hour he went on silently over the
cliff-top ways ; and Rhoda, walking beside
him, had no heart to break that sad silence.

Then, apparently awakening to her presence
all at once, he turned quickly, but not savagely,
as the child half-expected.

Go home, Rhoda,' he said, speaking gently
enough ; * go home at once. . . . You can't
walk all the way back to Garlaff. Take
Skipton's cab. . . . Here's the money to pay
for it.'

25—2

4 Come with me, 7 the girl ventured to say,
unwonted tears in her eyes. ' Don't stay
here, father, don't. . . . What can you do ?'

The Squire was not angry, nay, he was
touched more than he knew ; but no thought
of yielding came to him.

'Do as I said, Rhoda ; go home. I'll come
by-an'-by.'

The Squire turned away, but slowly and
sadly rather than impatiently ; and Rhoda,
going back by the Bight came suddenly upon
Canon Godfrey and Mrs. Kerne in earnest
conversation with David Andoe. But David
knew very little more than they did, though
perhaps he feared more. He was about to
express his worst fear, when Mrs. Kerne discerned
Rhoda coming down the pathway
that led from the cliff. She saw that the
girl was alone and in tears. Mrs. Kerne's
own face was not free from the sign of
weeping.

Hush !' she said imperatively ; ' say no
more now.'

Then she turned to her niece with a kindness,
a sympathy that caused poor Rhocla to
break down altogether. If her Aunt Katherine

could be so gentle, so affectionate as this,
things must be looking very dark indeed.
Rhoda's distress increased her aunt's attempt
to relieve it ; and presently they all went
together to Laburnum Villa, the beautiful
new house that Mr. Kerne had built out
beyond the promenade. Tea was ordered,
gas lighted everywhere, fires stirred to a
blaze ; but Mrs. Kerne's tears were more than
all her hospitalities in her niece's sight.
People who have wept together are friendlier
friends than before.

When Rhoda went home, her uncle went
with her in the cab, and did his best to comfort
her.

Don't give up hoping,' the Canon said,
understandingly ; ' don't do that. Will it help
you to know that I, for my part, feel something
that is almost certainty that I have not
looked my last upon the face of your brother
Hartas ? . . . I won't say too much ; but I
will repeat what I have said in other words.
I have not yet for one moment felt hopeless.'

WATCHING BY THE SEA.

Just Heaven instructs us with an awful voice,
That Conscience rules us e'en against our choice,
Our inward monitress to guide or warn,
If listened to, — but, if repelled with scorn,
At length as dire Remorse, she reappears,
Works in our guilty hopes and selfish fears.
Still bids Remember ! and still cries, Too late !
And while she scares us, goads us to our fate.'

Coleridge.

All alone the old Squire walked there on
the wind-swept cliff top — the thundering of the
ocean at the foot of the cliffs in his ear, the far
white wide sea filling all his sight. Night
was closing in again ; the storm had not
abated. Men's fears were not yet at rest.

Some there were who had especial cause
for fear. Dick Reah, not able to bear the
sight of the little inn after the inquiry,
during which he had been called upon to

give evidence as to the death of Jim Tyas,
had escaped from the place altogether, taking
up his quarters at Danesborough. Sampey
Verrill took a different view of the matter,
and was not by any entreaty of wife or child
to be drawn from walking to and fro by
the edge of the still stormy sea. At high
water, when he might walk there no longer,
he took his stand on a rugged point of blue-black
rock to the south of the Bight, and
remained there till the tide had turned. He
might not escape from that drear watch-point
if he would, till the receding sea gave him
permission.

They did not know of each other, these two
lonely watchers. All night the Squire walked
up and down to the north of the Bight ; all
niorht Samson Merrill sat or stood on the
point of rock to the south, within a few feet
of the sea that was still tossing wildly,
madly, eagerly, as if no cry of lamentation
were going up from the little bay for the deaths
it had already caused.

At daybreak three of the drowned Burrells
were found lying on the shore — the father was
there, his eldest son, and the youngest. They

were taken home, and a day or two later they
were laid to rest in the old churchyard. You
may see the tombstone now, with the date
and manner of their death told in brief words.
It is all the biography of men who lived
brave lives, and died sad deaths, and it is
told in some five or six lines cut with a
gravers tool.

This is the conclusion :

Through many various tempests have we past,
But a safe harbour we have found at last."

It was David Andoe who found the
youngest Barrel lying among the weed-covered
stones to the north of the bay.
David was sauntering over the beach, hoping
to meet Samson Verrill, to get the truth from
him as to what had become of Squire Theyn's
son. David could not yet quite believe the
tale that was spreading everywhere now ; yet
he feared that Sampey knew whether it were
true or no. How else could his strange
conduct be accounted for ? Why should he be
wandering about among the rocks by night
and by day, only going home for a few
moments at a time to snatch a little food

between the tides ? Surely Samson knew
something, and David was fain to learn what
he knew.

But when at last opportunity came, he
could extract no details. Samson would
acknowledge nothing, deny nothing.

For the sake o' yon old man, his father,
as is wandering about yon cliffs — for his sake
tell me the truth, Sampey.'

So David urged ; but the truth did not
come.

1 If the Squire's watching', let him watch.
I'd non hinder him !'

That w r as all that Samson Verrill would
say. But he turned back to his own watching,
and David could hardly fail to fear the
worst.

Another night passed, the storm continued,
and at daybreak the ocean seemed churned, so
to speak, so far did the white surf extend, so
entirely one mass of surging foam did it appear
to be.

That a small boat should be anywhere on
such a sea and not be broken to watchword
seemed an impossibility. The one possible
thing was an event not to be thought

of without pain, even by those least concerned.


Hope dies hardly — how hardly let those
say who have spent not only days but long
nights in the endurance of the agony of desperate
hoping.

No entreaty prevailed with Squire Theyn.
All the first night he had walked there, wind-driven,
rain-swept, on the cliff top. His eyes
had looked upon the sea at even, w r hile the
last ray of light was dying from the farthest
white wave, and his sight swept the same
sea when the first ray of morning broke above
the eastern horizon, spreading so slowly, so
very slowly to the margin of the sea at his
feet. And in all that wide stretch of water
there was no sail, nor any boat ; there was
nothing for the poor old man's wearied gaze
to rest upon save the stormy sea itself.

Very weary he was, for the soul within him
was already fainting.

Hartas !' he said, speaking softly, as if
he were heard. ' Hartas ! forgive me ! . . .
Forgive me, and come back. . . . I've not been
a good father to you, but things shall be different.
. . . Only come back !'

When the day was full in the sky he went
home and took some food when Rhoda urged
him, and rested awhile. But before nightfall
he went back to the cliff-top pathway; and
when Canon Godfrey, wearied with his day's
work, his many visits to the cottages of the
bereaved, his ministrations in the churchyard
when the Canon joined the old man, and
would have walked with him, he found no
response.

'Leave me — leave me alone!' the Squire
prayed. ' It is all I ask of any human being
now, that I may be left alone!'

On the fourth day the storm went down,
but the comparative calm brought no hope
to any who believed that Hartas Theyn had
been dealt with as the people on the Forecliff
were declaring. But little else was talked of
in the place now. Dick Reah had never returned
from Danesborough. Samson Merrill
still went to and fro on the rocks, already a
mere shadow of himself ; and the sight of the
Squire's gray, gaunt figure, going up and
down the hillside road in the twilight and at
dawn, drew tears from eyes not much accustomed
to weeping.

Each da) 7 the carriage came down from
the Eectory with Mrs. Godfrey in it, and
sometimes Mrs. Meredith and her son Percival.
Thorhilda did not come.

And none saw Barbara Burdas outside
the cottage door during these terrible days.
It was understood that she must have enough
to do. One day there had been a double
funeral, attended by half the people of the
Bight. James Grainger Tyas, fisherman, and
Ann Eliza, his wife, had been laid side by side
in the old churchyard at Yarburgh, on the
same day, in the same hour. Bab Burdas
was there by the two graves, the three-days'
old baby safely sheltered in her arms.

i I'll tell ya on it some day, my bairn,'
she whispered through her blinding tears to
the little one. ' An' maybe you'll be glad
to know I brought you here, . . . that is, if
you may ever be glad at all, been' fatherless
an' motherless ! . . . But, eh, God helping' me,
you shall never miss them ! . . . I'll be father
an' mother to you, both i' one!'

That day passed, and then the next. Yet
no tidings came of Hartas Theyn.

Rhoda wept at home ; growing paler and

thinner ; yet she did her father's bidding, and
kept one room ready for anything that might
happen, doing all more willingly and gladly
than ever before. Even her short-sighted and
self-absorbed Aunt Averil marvelled at the
change, and had not the human grace to keej:>
her marvelling to herself.

And Bab Burdas wept in the rude house
on the Forecast ; but not when anyone was
by to see. Bab's weeping was done when
her grandfather and the children were in bed,
and Nan's baby lay quietly smiling and sleeping
on her lap. . It was only then that Bab
gave way.

So another day went on — it was the
sixth.

And yet another came and went.

Each night Squire Theyn had kept his vigil
on the cliff to the north of the Bight of
Ulvstan ; and the people saw and wondered.
Was the old man going to watch there forever
? What was he hoping now ? What
could he be thinking ?

They could not hear what he still kept
saying :

• Hartas ! Hartas ! forgive me ! Come back,

and forgive me ! I wasn't a good father, but
I cared for you. I always cared. . . . Even
when you were a little lad, I cared. . . .
Come back again !'

At last came the eighth evening — the
eighth from that on which three angry and
resentful men had sought to express their
resentment in a manner not altogether unknown
in the annals of Ulvstan Bight.
And now one was lying in the churchyard
at Yarburgh ; and one was drowning his
remorse in drink at Danesborough ; and one
was trying in his own dumb and blind way
to atone by wandering among the rocks by
the edge of that sea that might give up the
dead, but could surely never give up the
living man to whom that cruel deed had been
done.

Yon Sampey VerriU's losing his senses, he
nun be !'

It was old Hagar Furniss who spoke. She
had gone in to help Bab awhile, as she did
almost every evening now when her own
day's work was done, knowing that nothing
she could do for Bab would be unrequited.

The old woman saw at once that some

change had come over Barbara. The girl's
face was flushed to a burning crimson ; her
eyes bright and restless ; her lips seemed to
tremble when she spoke.

Eh, but I've looked long for you, Hagar !'
she said eagerly. ' I'm wanting you sorely !
Can you stay the night, all night here with
the bairn? Say you can!'

c Ah can stay if Ah'm wanted, honey !' the
old woman replied kindly. * What's wrong ?
Naught wi' the bairn, I hope ?'

1 No, it's none her, thank God ! But I'm
going' out o' doors. I must go. . . . Don't
ask ma no question, Hagar! Give the little
one all she needs, an' take the best o' care on
her. . I must go at once!'

Then, kissing the new-born infant, taking
an anxious look at the sleeping children in
the next room, at little Ailsie in the room
above, Bab went out.

It was dark by this time ; but not entirely)
dark. There was no moon; but that wondrous
clear, deep starlight so often seen on
autumn evenings in the north seemed to glow
upon the earth as if some light came from
below to meet that from above.

Bab took her way to the north without a
thought; going down into the Bight, up the
opposite cliff side, and away out across the
cliff-fields. The Squire was there ; she passed
him silently, tremulously, about a mile and
a half beyond the Bight. He too was going
northward, but slowly, wearily, hopelessly.
A sigh reached Bab's ears as she flew onward
a long sad sigh that was half a groan, and
drew the tears from her eyes once more ; a
very passion of tears — blinding, scalding, not
relieving. She felt shattered when the
moment was over.

And yet she was not hopeless, not as
others were. Had she had no thought that
Hartas Theyn was yet alive she had not been
there.

Bab was too sensitive to ridicule to have
been able to tell anyone about her of the real
reason for her present action.

I could ha' told her ' (' her ' meaning always
Miss Theyn) — ' I could ha' told her 'at I was
moved by a dream. She wouldn't ha' laughed
at me. She wouldn't ha' looked at me as if
she thought I was a fool.'

A dream — only a dream ; but one so vivid

that all day Bab had lived and moved in the
atmosphere of it.

For days past all her thought, all her
imagining, had been of the sea, and of what
might be happening somewhere out upon it
if the things that people were whispering were
true ; and almost as a matter of course her
dream had been a sea dream.

She seemed to see it quite plainly, even after
she awoke — the wide stormy ocean she knew
so well ; and far away in the horizon a boat,
a mere dark speck upon a shining floor. And
she had known — at once she had known —
that in the boat was a solitary man, the man
she loved. Then all at once, as things do
happen in dreams, she had found herself in
the same tiny craft, and there, at her feet,
this man dying or fainting. She took the
dark, drooping head in her arms, the hair
wet with the salt sea spray, and in her dream
she caressed it, in her dream she kissed the
pallid lips ; kissed them again and again ;
kissed them so passionately that once more
life, dear life, breathed through them.

And with this breath of another's life on
her lip she awoke.

vol. 11. 26

This was why Bab was out upon the cliff-top
that calm star-lit night ; this was why she
remained there, waiting to see what might
come to pass.

She no more came so near to the Squire,
though she knew of his presence there.
Always she remained a little farther to the
north, receding when he advanced. Her instinct
toward self-effacement in all things had
developed rapidly of late. It was a certain
sign of other developments. Only the coarser
soul desires to be aggressively en evidence.

Long after midnight Bab watched there.
She thought often of the old man behind ; of
what his sorrow must be, his longing, his
weariness, his despair. Her heart yearned
toward him ; for another's sake, perhaps, still
the yearning was tender and true. If only
she might have spoken to him; if only she
might have dared to comfort him with the
hope that still lingered in her own heart !

So the night went on — that long, drear,
silent night.

At last the dawn broke ; a soft, pink-gray
dawn above a soft, pink-gray sea.

Slowly the faint pink deepened to rose

colour ; slowly the rose-tint spread across the
wide, far distance.

Then, presently above the pure rose-red, a
glowing gold gleamed through the shining
edge of each ascending cloud; pearl-gray
shadows subdued the amber and the rose
into one lovely harmony of colour ; the sea
took up each note and repeated it ; while
overhead, even now, the stars were fading
one by one from the night-toned ether of
deepest blue. Bab had seen many sunrises, but
none had moved her as she was moved now.

She was standing on the farthest point
of the big brown point called Scarcliff Nab,
tremulous, hopeful, admiring, despairing, expectant;
above all, expectant. Every moment
the scene about her seemed to reproduce more
closely the scene of the vision she had had.

Expectant ! Yes, her very soul seemed to
tremble within her as her quick sight swept
the sea-leagues of the wide horizon before her.
Her heart was beating wildly. This was the
scene ! this the lio-ht ! this the hour ! this the

o

moment !

'He is there! he must be there! And yet
no, not there, but here — somewhere near to

26—2

me. . I feel it ! I know it ! . He is

living ! He is near f

Bab did not say these things ; even to herself
she did not say them.

For a long time, or long it seemed, She
stood there on the brown, rugged ness. The
light morning breeze sighed as it passed herby
; she had no sigh to give in response. Her
whole being was strained to the utmost tension
he might bear.

At last! at last! at last! Bab knelt on
the dark bare rock, and covered her face
with her hands ; and as she knelt she prayed ;
prayed passionate prayers for whomsoever
might be living, or dying, in the far-off speck
that she knew to be a boat.

But for her dream, that warning dream, she
had not been there.

Beyond doubt this was the very boat of her
dream, the very aspect it had had in that
vision of the night, a mere dark speck out
upon a wide and shining sea.

4 He is there! living or dead, he is there P
Barbara said, rising to her feet, and hastening
over the cliffs to find the old man, who was
yet doubtless watching. ' Living or dead,
Ilartas Theyn is in yon little boat f

AN UNUSUAL EXPERIENCE.

It may be, somewhat thus we shall have leave
To walk with memory, — when distant lies
Poor earth, where we were wont to live and grieve.'

Wm. Walsingham

To sit by a warm fireside on a stormy night
of autumn or of winter, the glow of the
crackling coal brightening the forefront of
the scene ; the lamplight enlivening the mid-distance
; curtains carefully drawn over door
and window — to sit thus and listen to the
incessant roar of the sea at the foot of the
cliffs but just outside, is a state of things apt
to have very different effects upon different
natures. One man will feel how good and
pleasant it is to be safe and comfortable indoors
; another will not perceive his thought
or emotion to be changed in any way ; while
a third will be saddened : consciously or unconsciously

his mind will wander to those who
must go down to the sea in ships and do business
in great waters. To be aware that only
a stone's-throw away some brave ship may be
sinking to her doom, with souls on board,
despairing, helpless, hopeless — to be reminded
of this by the ceaseless surging of the sea is
to have but little peace of mind while the gale
may last. One may readily be brought to
wonder why, since the eye may be closed from
seeing, the tongue made to cease from speaking,
the ear alone should be undefended by
any power over its own function ? To be
able to close one's ears as easily as the eyes are
closed would seem a boon not easily to be overrated
— certainly not while compelled to listen
to a wild storm at sea.

Night by night, while the hurricane lasted,
Damian Aldenmede walked on the beach, now
talking with this fisherman, now with that,
and seldom returning to his lodgings on the
Forecliff before midnight, and bearing within
himself then a sense of apprehension, of dread,
not to be done away by any reasoning, any
argument.

He had never seen much of Hartas Theyn,

and the little he had seen had not been calculated
to awaken any esteem; yet, strangely
enough, he was aware of a certain drawing,
a certain attraction. He had discerned that
the face that could look so sullen, so heavy,
could yet flush with generous feeling ; that
the eyes from which such fierce anger could
flash were yet eyes that could soften to love
and love's most pathetic expression.

He seems on the way to ruin the artist
had said to himself; 'but I fancy he is one of
the few so tending that one would care to save
from going any farther. He may be saved — I
feel sure that he may; his strong and pure love
for Barbara Burdas may be the means of
saving him. . . . Perhaps I have not seen the
matter all round.'

These thoughts had come to him only an
hour or two before he had heard that Hartas
was missing, and inevitably the distressing
news had deepened his compassion to the
uttermost, and some self-blame was mingled
with his thought as he paced the narrow floor
of his lodging in a very throe of pity and
pain.

Night by night, during this sad, strange

week, Damian Aldenmede was thus constrained
by his suffering for another ; and
night by night the man for whom he suffered
was tossing out at sea, drifting there alone,
yet not altogether despairing, not in any sense
desperate.

It had been no easy matter to undo the

«/

ropes wherewith he had been bound ; yet he
had found it possible, after long effort, to
free himself, and with the unfastening of the
last knot one phase of his physical suffering
had ended.

The sense of being so bound that he could
not lift his arms, or raise his hand to his
head, had gradually and quite unexpectedly
become a very terrible thing, so terrible that
for some two hours this alone seemed as if it
might be a sufficient cause of death.

Why, because he was not able to move his
limbs, he should have felt that he could not
breathe, is probably as much a question for
the psychologist as the physiologist. The
intolerable sense as of strangulation might
possibly have been avoided by anyone who
had understood the matter sufficiently well
to enable him to remain calm, refraining from

all effort, or only making effort of the quietest.
But this Hartas did not understand. How
should he ? So long as his position had had
the interest of novelty, so long as others had
been near at hand to witness his coolness, his
bravery — which yet was not assumed — till
then there had been motive enough to sustain
his mood. And it was not till some four or
five hours had passed by that nature recoiled
upon him, and the recoil was strong. The
truth of those succeeding hours could never
be told in words, written or spoken.

Silvio Pellicle has related, for the interest of
all time, how terrible are the first hours and
days of life within prison walls. The sense
of confinement, of the nearness of everything,
of the inability to move beyond a certain limit,
must in itself be sufficiently dreadful; yet inmost
recorded cases it would seem as if
another dread had been added, vague, pitiful,
terrifying, unspeakable. Hartas Theyn had
known but little of such records, so that
whatever his sensations might be they were
not charged with the experience of others.
And in one sense his present state bore no
resemblance to the state of a man imprisoned.

Xo walls enclosed him ; the rising wind swept
across his heated forehead refreshingly ; there
was the consciousness of limitless space about
him everywhere. Yet so long as he was bound
his suffering was intense, and the effort to free
himself from the ropes, the painful, powerful?
long-continued effort, was producing something
that might without exaggeration be
called agony. . . . But at last he was free,
and for a time he knew nothing but grateful
sensation.

And all the while the hurricane was increasing,
the little boat was tossing to and fro like
a nutshell upon that wide waste of waters.
And now the darkness was of itself a terrible
thing. Xo light was visible anywhere, either
on the land or on the sea ; the stars were overspread
by the dense storm-cloud. Nothing
remained save the heaving sea ■ — heaving
splashing, rolling in that dread darkness. A
stouter heart than that of Hartas Theyn might
have quailed.

Inevitably in such an hour the man was
brought face to face with himself, with his
own soul.

When no future remains, the present is

quickly effaced ; it is the past that becomes all
we have to offer.

To offer! When we think of it so — the
offering of that past life of ones with all its
shortcomings, all its sins, all its selfishness,
its little care for others, the few hours spent in
prayer, the many hours given to the world and
worldly matters ; when we would think of this
brief earthly life thus, as of something that
the soul must take with it — must bring as an
offering to lay down at the feet of Him who
sits upon the Great White Throne, then we do
not dare to think — thought is silenced.

The life is there ; it has been lived. Not
one hour of it may be effaced, not one hour
lived over again.

To Hartas Theyn that time of silence was
long, and dark, and fearful ; he dreaded the
awakening of thought that he knew must
come if life remained to him but a little while
longer.

It is said that drowning men see all the
past as in a lightning flash ; and this is entirely
conceivable. We most of us have such
moments, even when we are far from any
chance of drowning. Sometimes they come,

as in a dream, between sleeping and waking —
sometimes in hours of deep grief, of anxiety,
of suspense. Now and then a flash of disclosing
light crosses a moment of intense joy.
. . Usually this disclosure, or the effect of
it, remains with us — usually for our good.

The time of enlightenment that came to
Hartas Theyn could certainly not be spoken
of as momentary ; it lasted for some hours —
hours of vivid, vigorous presentment of all
the chief incidents and features of his past
life ; and each one was heightened as by the
light of some spiritual electricity, so that
every detail was seen, and in an altogether
new aspect. There was nothing now to hide
his nakedness from his own soul's sight. He
saw that he was naked, and he saw it to his
bitter and painful shame.

Strangely enough, the very words of St.
Paul came to him as he sat there, chilled,
suffering much in body, and yet more in
mind. Doubtless they were as an echo from
some sermon heard long ago :

For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon
with our house which is from heaven :

If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked

It was somewhat of a surprise to himself
that a text of Scripture should cross his mind,
especially since it appeared to come with some
accuracy ; that he should be drawn to dwell
upon it, to try to find the meaning of it, was
more surprising still.

He had yet to learn how true it is that even
the smallest amount of spiritual awakening, of
spiritual light and strength, means an immense
widening of whatever powers the intellect may
possess.

Carlyle s definition of genius is this :

The clearer presence of God Most High in the soul of man.'

And it is certain that no truer or finer definition
of that mysterious quality, or faculty,
has been given to the world as yet. No
sooner does a man bonn to be aware of some
higher influence working within his soul than
he becomes also aware that that higher influence,
acting through the soul, is developing
his thinking and reasoning and perceiving
powers to the uttermost. The event, unprecedented
in his soul's history, is equally unprecedented
in his mental history — a fact he is
apt to perceive with as much regret as astonishment.

He now knows what he ' might have
been !'

But how dimly he knows ! His utmost
imagination may not disclose to him all that
true living had disclosed.

That night at sea — that first dread night
of many that were to be yet more dread, was
a crisis in the life of Hartas Theyn.

How could he have been so senseless, so
unseeing? . . , By-and-by he became aware
that this comparative sight was but as
comparative blindness.

And over and over came the thought,
What I might have been ! If I had tried
simply to do what I knew to be right, to
be wise; if, as the Canon said the other day, I
had but been true to the light I had, what
miffht I not have been?'

o

And then thought itself seemed hushed.
He could not realize the man he might have
been had he been happy, good, respected, at
peace with others, at ease with himself. The
ideas were all too dim, too unusual. He was
not equal to the double strain of listening
to a wild storm that was blowing so closely
about him, and at the same time creating

a vision of that slain self whose wreck he
was.

He knew the wreck.

If / had been different, all had been
different he said, speaking audibly, since
there was none to hear. ' She would have
cared then ; she might even have looked
up to me, instead of despising me, as I
know she does . . . as I know she has
done! . . . How will it be with her, with
others, when I am only a memory? . . .
Will they care to remember at all? Can she
forget V

But as he lay there, the boat lurching
heavily from side to side, shuddering under
the blows of wind and wave, the power of
consecutive thought began to desert him.
Very gradually it departed from him ; but
there came an hour when neither remorse,
nor hope, nor fear dwelt with him persistently.
It was only by moments at a time that he
could lay bare his soul before that Unknown
God whom hitherto he had only thought
of with a blind, unreasoning, ignorant dread.
It did not even seem strange to him that
the dread had passed away, that he could

speak as to One near — not speaking complainingly,
not bitterly, not even as one bewailing
his evil case ; but simply as one seeking forgiveness,
first of all forgiveness; and to this
end he did not spare himself in confession.
From the first memory of his life to the
last there was relief, unutterable relief, inlaying
bare his soul before that soul's Maker,
in desiring pardon for sins remembered and
unremembered — sins of boyhood and of later
age, sins of omission and sins of commission,
sins of body and sins of soul — never before
had he known such relief as that which came
to him as he tossed there on the midnight sea,
recalling all his life, all his errors ; and then, in
desiring forgiveness for the same, bending his
knee as reverently as he might, but only able
to do this for moments at a time. First,
forgiveness he craved ; then compassion; last
of all, companionship.

Be near me!' he cried, when once more the
darkness came down and the storm was apparently
at its worst. ' Be near me ! I don't
deserve it; I know, I feel I do not. But stay
with me, good God — stay with me through
this night !'

STILL DRIFTING, DRIFTING ON. NO LAND. NO
SAIL.

0, let me be awake, my God !
Or let me sleep alway.'

Again the darkness fell and stayed ; the
storm still raged on ; and a long period of
merciful unconsciousness came upon Hartas
Theyn, whether of sleep, or of the semblance
of coma that comes of exhaustion and hunger,
he did not know, nor might he know how
long it had lasted, whether four hours
or forty. He awoke at last, unrefreshed,
and consumed by a burning thirst. That
was his worst physical trouble, that terrible
thirst.

Only once did a dread paroxysm of hunger
seize him. Since then he has written the
story of that fierce hour on paper — in a little

vol. ii. 27

book not yet yellow with age or worn with
time. There is no need to reproduce his
words here. Suffering of that kind may be
studied, by all who care for such study, in
many accounts of shipwreck, and in most
records of Arctic research. It is not always
profitable.

Afterward it seemed to him that all that
had been really terrible had lain within the lines
of his mental or spiritual suffering, rather than
in the physical.

From time to time there arose a cry in
his heart, but now it was one cry, and now
another.

Would that I might live my life again !'

That was the cry that came most frequently.

Would that I might live but one week of

that old life !

4 To see my father's face, to sit there by

the old fireside, were it but for an hour —

but for one hour — oh, God, what would I not

give?

And to see her, to touch her hand ! Is

it possible that yesterday — was it yesterday?

was it a week ao-o? — I might have done it?

And I did not know. I did not know what it

all meant, that heavy, stupid, misused life.
Xo, I knew nothing yesterday.'

And ever between his wordless thought
there came the sound of the wind as it rose
passionately, and fell with its own disturbed
sadness. And the waves leapt upon the little
boat, and hurled and clashed together, now in
the darkness, and now in the dawn, now in
the drear setting of the sun. And he who was
drifting there did not always know whether
the dim light meant the coming on of night
or the departing ; for ever again and again
came that prolonged merciful unconsciousness.


The thunderstorm that broke upon the
Bight of Ulvstan about that hour when Jim
Tyas came to his death had not seemed so
terrible to Hartas Theyn, and by that he
knew that he must have been far enough
away at that time. The recollection of it
was about the last definite recollection that
he had.

After that, for some four or five days and
nights, he must have lain more or less in
that strange and ever-deepening stupor. It
was not — so he thought — at any time pure,

27—2

simple, refreshing sleep. Though he dreamt
strange dreams, and had strange visions, yet it
was not sleep.

Always while the storm lasted he was
conscious of the deafening, exhausting rush
and roar of the wind, the whirl, and flash,
and roll of the vast unbroken waves. That
the wind had remained so long unchanged,
so that he was kept out there in the deep
water, had been matter of gratitude too deep
for words. Having no oars, he could have
done nothing to help himself, and he knew
that if he were once to come near to the
broken surf that fringed the land nothing
could save him.

Yet the knowledge did not now, even in
his waking moments, distress him ; feeling-was
too much benumbed for that. It would
soon be over, that last dread strife, with
that last dread enemy to be destroyed ;
while the death he was even now dying,
hour by hour, might in the end be very
painful.

The storm began to subside during the
fourth night, and Hartas, rousing himself
from a long lethargic slumber, saw the gleam

of the rising sun upon the gradually calming
sea. But he saw nothing else — no sail, no
land.

Thrice a screw steamer had passed by, one
quite near, and he had managed to stand
up in the boat to wave his blue silk scarf
to and fro with some energy; but the steamer
passed on, and took no notice. It was a time
of harrowing excitement and suspense, and
what wonder that he felt sure he had been
seen? The two other steamers were too
far away for suspicion, though each time
his effort was made to the uttermost of his
power.

All the last days and nights, the dawns, the
twilights, seemed mingled together in a strange
confusion ; and since the calm that succeeded
the storm was so great, there was now no
external influence to arouse him. The temperature
was not low for the time of year;
he had no sense of hunger; there was nothing
to be done but to lie in seeming slumber,
drifting on, and on, and on, not even knowing
that since the wind had changed he must
be drifting back within sight of land.

From all suffering he had ceased, from all

hoping, from all despairing. That last dawn
rose slowly, quietly, holily ; and it rose upon
one who might see nothing of its beauty,
know nothing of its dread solemnity. The
little boat might have been his bier for all
he knew.

HOW RESCUE CAME.

1 Touch not— hold !
And if you weep still, weep where John was laid
While Jesus loved him.'

E. B. Browning.

Long afterward Barbara Burdas remembered
that autumn morning, and remembered certain
passages of it with a feeling that was almost
shame. Had she really forgotten herself sofar,
her position, the strange complications of
her life, as to put her trembling hand upon
Squire Theyn's arm, to urge him to come with
her at once — at once !

He is there !' she had cried, one hand pressing
in excited entreaty the old man's shoulder,
the other pointing to that speck out upon the
rose-red sea. ' Do you understand ? It is
your son ! He is there, out at sea — dead or

alive, he is there! Won't you come with me?
Won't you come at once?'

The Squire did not repulse her in anyway,
yet he did not respond, or seem to
comprehend. The old man was wearied by
the want of sleep, exhausted by sorrow, by
remorse, by suspense. The words he heard
were only half understood, and this Barbara
perceived. But she dared not, could not stay
longer there. Besides, her instinct told her
that Squire Theyn could not be of use in the
present crisis.

He is there /' she repeated as she flew on
over the fields, brushing the dew from the
grass, from the tall dead hemlocks, the crisp
rest-harrow ; her eyes still straining to watch
that small dark speck out upon the wide,
still sea. l He is there!' she kept on saying,
saying it solely for her own consolation.

There was no one else to be consoled.
The little townlet had not yet awakened,
and the tide being barely half out, Samson
Verrill had not yet returned from the lonely
point of rock where he still kept watch.
Barbara knew that he would be there, and
she knew that all the little world about her

would be yet asleep, and that time would be
required for any effective awakening. And
who could say what time might mean ? A
quarter of an hour — nay, live minutes might
mean much to a man who had been drifting:
about the North Sea without sustenance of
any kind for over a week. There was no
opportunity for deliberation. Barbara flew
down to the beach, unmoored the lightest
boat she could find there, and managed by
almost superhuman effort to launch it all
alone. As she drew rapidly away from the
shore, she saw that the Squire was hastening
down the cliff ; had he understood at
last ? Would he do all that might be done
in the way of preparation for her return —
her return, and his — his of whom not only
her thought but her very life seemed full ?
The smoke was beginning to curl upward
from a cottage chimney on the Forecliff ;
the gulls from the rocks to the south were
flying in and out by myriads, chuckling,
screaming, subsiding, rising again ; and there,
far away upon the dark point in the distance,
Samson Verrill stood, lonely between sea and
sky. Barbara could see him quite plainly,

and he would see her, that she knew, and he
would wonder what her errand might be ;
not being able from his own comparatively
low-lying position to see the speck that she
had seen from the utmost height of the
northern cliff-top. But Barbara did not think
long of Samson Merrill. Thought was merged
in action, in effort ; such effort as Barbara
herself had never made before this hour. Not
the strongest man could have made swifter
progress ; yet, after nearly an hour's rowing,
that dark speck still seemed leagues away
upon the subsiding silvery gray of the sunlit
sea.

It was not always that Barbara could seethe
small dark point which she knew to be a
boat, yet she rowed on in the direction where
she had first seen it ; and now and then
for her helping she caught sight of it, and
the sight lent always fresh energy to her
utmost effort.

At last she came nearer, consciously,
tremulously. She had not been mistaken, it
was a boat, a small, brightly painted boat,
blue and white and vivid green, the exact
counterpart of that she knew to be missing ;

but why should she say even that to herself,
beings so assured it was the same ? She stood
up in her own boat, shading her eyes with her
hand from the uprising sun. Then suddenly
she felt her face flush with fear, with a strange
unknown dread. After all, could it be that the
boat was empty ? Was it possible ? She
saw no sign.

More slowly, more sadly now, she bent
herself again to the oars, then sadder and
slower still, as one who draws near to the
bed on which a friend is lying, breathing out
the last breath of the life that had been to
others so precious, so dear.

The girl dared not look. She paused a
little, rowed on again, stopped, covering her
face with her hands. She was quite near,
yet no sign came, no sound. . . At last, she
raised her head.

A wild throbbing pulsation seized all her
frame. He was there ! Someone was there — a
dark figure was lying helplessly at the bottom
of the boat, toward the stern. And it was
the figure of him she had seen in her dream.

She made no cry, asked no question: that
would have been so useless. And then it

was that she entered into that vivid vision
once more, not conscious of what she did.
Afterward the dream and the deeds of its
realization were as one in her recollection.

She made no effort to arouse or to move
the prostrate, starless figure that lay, as the
dead lie, at the bottom of the boat ; but,
seeing it, regret awoke like a lightning flash.
Why had she brought no food, no water, no
restoratives of any kind ? Had excitement
bereft her of sense ?

She hardly dared to look upon the pallid
face, above which the heavy black hair was
lying in wild disarrangement. Removing
the oars from the boat she was in, placing
them in the rowlocks of the little boat that
had been drifting to and fro during the
terrible storm, she sat clown for a moment or
two overcome by exhaustion, by emotion.
Yet she could not look upon the face of
Hartas Theyn.

Presently she took the boat in which she
had rowed out in tow, and started back for
the land. For near two hours she pulled
slowly to the shore, knowing but little more
than Hartas Theyn himself knew.

By this time there was a crowd gathered
upon the beach, an eager, anxious, fervid,
almost unbelieving crowd. David Andoe
was foremost in grasping the bow of the
boat as it grated upon the bed of gravel.
Damian Aldenmede was but just behind, and
had the greater strength of the two. Between
them they lifted the dead, or dying, man to
the shore, and carried him to the nearest
house. Early as it yet was, Canon Godfrey
was there, and Mrs. Kerne. The news had
spread fast and far. . As a matter of
course, old Ephraim was in the very forefront
of the scene ; and to Barbara's satisfaction
he was there when David Andoe
returned, and was able to help her to reach
the cottage on the Forecliff. She needed
help, though she was hardly able to thank
those who helped her.

Let me be,' she said faintly, as she sank
into a chair by the fire. ' Let me be ! . . .
It's all I'd ask of you — let me be!'

FORGIVENESS.

A terrible ! Non sa much of a terrible !'
said old Ephraim when they told him with
many wondering words that Hartas Theyn yet
lived. ' Why Ah've snowed a man myself,
the captain o' the Eagle brigantine, sailing
fra Shields for Dieppe' deep, he called it),
laden wi' coals. An' the vessel were o'er-taken
1 the gale o' '31 ; an' every man aboard
except the Captain were washed off o' the
deck wiv a single sweep of a single wave,
an' he'd ha gone an' all ef so it hadn't been
'at he'd been lashed to the mast. But lashed
he were, an' — fortnight for him — lashed he
remained. Noo mind it's no lie Ah'm tellin'
o' ya. Ah snowed the man, Hebbin'ton, his
name were, Captain Hebbin'ton, but whether
James or John, Ah'll not sav. But this

Ah will saiiy, for I heard him tell the table
wi' my odin ears, as how he were tossing' about
i* the German Ocean for no less nor 
days — noo, two-and-twenty ! Think
o' that ! An' never no bite nor sup passed
his lips save once, an' that was after a heavy
rain, when he wrung his shirt-sleeves, an' so
got a fear drops o' water ! That were something
like a marvel ! . . . Eight days ! an'
the last four on 'em fairly mild weather !
Well, it's hardly much to boast on, let alone
calling' it a terrible!'

Such was old Ephraim's opinion, but it
need hardly be said that it was not generally
held throughout the neighbourhood. The
Squire's son had been removed, so soon as
Dr. Douglas considered it safe, to Mrs.
Kerne's house, where he lay, still exhausted,
still silent, still pallid. Thorhilda and Mrs.
Godfrey came and went ; Rhoda came and
stayed ; and the Squire seldom left Laburnum
Villa till nightfall. Yet, so far, little
was known to anyone of Hartas's experience
during that terrible time, or its effect upon
himself. It was evident that he would not
talk of these things as yet.

When at last his strength did begin to
return to him it was but natural that his
father should ask him of the beginning of
the strange event ; that he should desire to
know how it had been brought about, and
above all, by whose immediate agency. The
Squire had only suspicion where others felt
certainty.

It was a fine October afternoon when the
old man first spoke of the past. The sun
was streaming through Mrs. Kerne's costly
Indian curtains ; shining into a large richly-furnished
room, laden with ornament of perhaps
not the most refined description. Hartas
was lying upon a sofa near the fire, his father
sat on a chair near the foot of it. Canon
Godfrey was by his side. Mrs. Kerne was
walking up and down the room, knitting as
she went, openly confessing herself too nervous
to sit still.

You must forgive me, you must bear with
me,' Hartas said, raising himself by feeble
effort from the cushions.

And it was a strange face that was lifted
to look upon the two men beside him, a face
never again to be what it had been. Not

only the expression, but every feature seemed
changed. The dark eyes, though deeply
sunk, yet looked larger, and had deeper intensity
of colour, of meaning, of outlook.
The once bronzed face was shrunken, and
pale, and nervous-looking. A certain sad
eagerness was written upon the countenance,
a certain sad remembrance ; it was the face
of a man who had passed through his life's
crisis, and was yet all unaware of its full
meaning, of the influence it was intended to
have upon the days to be.

You must forgive me,' he said in answer
to his father's desire for knowledge of the
days but just past. * I Trow the men ; one
is not living, so I am told. The others shall
be to me as if they had died also. . . It cannot
be otherwise, it cannot. They did wrong.
They were mistaken, they were cruel — bitterly
cruel and hard. But it is not for me to
punish them, not for anyone belonging tome.
Don't say any more, don't ask me to
say any more. . I can say nothing but
that.'

For a moment Squire Theyn could hardly
speak, so divided he was between emotions of

vol. 11. 28

varying nature. Disappointment was probably
uppermost.

1 They'll say it's cowardice, nothing but
rank cowardice P he exclaimed bitterly.

Hartas smiled ; a wan, sad smile it was.

1 No, they won't think that,' he said faintly.

After a little more uncomfortable and unprofitable
discussion the Squire got up and
went away. He would not quarrel with this
newly-restored son of his, not willingly, yet
it was an effort to subdue his anger, and Mrs.
Kerne was feeling for him and with him as
she seldom did.

When Canon Godfrey and Hartas were left
alone, the former asked a question he had been
wishing to ask for some time.

Would you mind telling me why you wish
to shield these men — these ruffians, I may
almost say ?'

1 No ; I can tell you,' Hartas replied, speaking
with the new gentleness of manner that
seemed so curiously natural to him already, as
if some inner and better self had been set free
from the outer. ' I can tell you, but surely
you do not need that I should put it into
words ? You can see for yourself that for her

sake alone — Barbara's — it would be better that
the matter should drop at once and for ever. If
I bring it to light, if I bring these men to justice,
the cause of their deed must become even a
commoner topic for conversation than it is now.
And how could I bear that, knowing how ill
she would bear it ? . . . No ; help me once
more, be the friend you have always been,
even when I couldn't see that you were my
friend at all. And try to persuade my father
to see the matter from my point of view. . . .
He will thank you afterward ; so shall I.'

The Canon thought for a moment ; then he
lifted his kindly blue eyes to the face of the
still suffering man before him.

c I will do what you wish,' he said, with an
eager concession in his manner. 'And I believe
after all that you are right ; I believe
you are. It would do little good to bring
these men to what is called justice — it might
do harm. I do think you are right, that the
affair, painful as it is, had better be allowed to
die out of itself.'

Better far ; and I thank you. . . . But
now, how shall I put the question ? Have
you nothing to tell me of her — of Barbara V

28—2

i Not much — that is, not much that will
gladden you in any way to hear. I can only
say that the more I see of her, the more I discern
the true greatness, the true beauty of her
character. She seems to be absolutely without
any trace of selfishness, of self-seeking.'

4 Have you seen her lately V

1 saw her yesterday ; the baby was baptized.
Barbara, your sister, and myself were
the sponsors. . . . Poor little mite that it is !
What will be its future, I wonder V

6 But Barbara ? . . . Has she got over it
all — that terrible time ? Did she look like
herself?'

To tell the truth she did not, not quite.
She looks older, paler, thinner, as if she had
gone through an illness. But what wonder ?
And she is young enough to recover ; and I
expect she will do so, by and by.'

1 What makes you say that ?' Hartas asked,
with the difficulty in his voice that comes of
emotion.

1 Hope makes me say it,' the Canon replied.
Presently he added, ' You have not forgotten
that day on the scar ? You remember what
I said ?'

c Yes, I remember,' Hartas replied, with
faint white lips, and hopeful tones ; ' perhaps
it would be better if I did not.'

What makes you say that ? Of what are
you thinking ?'

1 1 am thinking of her, that it cannot be,
that it can never be, that dream of mine.
How shall I tell you all — all I have discovered
? Sorrow enlightens one. . I believe,
as you kindly told me you believed,
that Barbara cares for me ; perhaps she may
even care more than I know ; but there are
things she cares for more. . I fancy she
sees a certain honourableness in refusing to
consent to a marriage that seems in her sight
one of — what shall I say ? — mere difference of
position seems so poor a ground, and I feel
sure that it does not cover all her thought.
To say the truth, I fear that to Barbara my
sister Thorhilda represents all goodness, all
refinement, all culture, all that she herself
thinks highest and worthiest ; and therefore it
is that her admiration is a sort of worship, a
worship that counts self-sacrifice as the purest
pleasure. I have expressed my thought badly,
inadequately, but you will know what I mean.

And this — this event — before I see Barbara I
seem to know that it will make her less willing
to yield than ever. And I will not urge her ;
I will never again, if I can help it, put any
pressure upon her. I seem to know now that
it can never be, that dream of mine ! . . .
Yet how I care for her ! How I care ! . . .
But forgive me ! I never meant to say all
this. Forgive me, and don't betray me !'

Hardly thinking of what he was doing
under the pressure of emotion, the Canon rose
to his feet and held out his hand as a sign of
leave-taking.

I will not betray you,' he said gently, and
with effort ; ' but let me mention one thing
that I had been thinking of : it seems to me
that as a matter of common gratitude Barbara
Burdas should be asked to come and see you.
. . She saved your life, remember.'

i She will not come,' Hartas replied instantly,
his fear overcoming his desire.

Do you think not ? . . . I imagine that
she will, if I make a point of it.'

Ah, if you put it so !' Hartas said, turning
his face away in disappointed sadness. ' She
will not refuse you, but her coming under

those conditions will be no help to me. . . .
I know her better now than I used to do. I
almost understand her ; but she is above me,
and consequently she sees beyond me. . . .
She may come, I may see her, but we shall
separate as we meet, as far apart, quite as far,
or perhaps even farther.'

And even as Hartas predicted, so it came to
pass.

BARBARA Bras AND Harts THEYN.

The eyes smiled too,
But 'twas as if remembering they had wept,
And knowing they should some day weep again.'

Hearing footsteps upon the garden path behind
him — footsteps waited for, listened for
long — Hartas turned with a crimson tide of
emotion flushing all his face. Two figures
were coming towards him — Barbara Burdas
and his sister Thorhilda. But for a second or
two he hardly recognised the former, and
the very strangeness about her enabled him
to recover himself. Was this young yet
stately-looking woman, dressed in quiet, simple
mourning of no antiquated date, yet far
enough removed from the fashionable — was
this Barbara Burdas ? He had to assure himself
by an effort.

Considering the shortness of the time since
the first appearance of Damian Aldenmede at
Ulvstan Bight, certainly the change in Barbara
Burdas was very great, and said much
for her powers of adaptability — yet, nay, what
a low word is that to use ! She had adapted
herself to nothing. In some ways she had
found her own, yet that but scantily, scarcely.
She had much yet to find, though, to her credit
be it said, she hardly knew even that. She
only knew that as yet certain desires within
her were all unfulfilled.

All the way Barbara was being led step by
step, not knowing whither she went, not
knowing why she was led onward at all.
That she should be accused of the vain and
vulgar ambition of desiring social advancement
did not occur to her, nor, for the honour of
the humanity about her be it said, did it occur
to others.

She was not at all aware that when she advanced
so tremulously to meet Hartas Theyn
in Mrs. Kerne's garden she was other than the
Barbara Burdas she had always been — the
change, so it seemed, was in him.

The first few moments were only made endurable

by the presence of Miss Theyn, who
understood the difficulty of this first meeting,
and now, as always, had enough of sympathy
to offer. If she felt any pain she was successful
in hiding it. Turning to her brother,
seeing his sad, white, hopeful face, then
looking upon Barbara, admiring the tall, fine
figure of the girl, seeing how the dark,
bronzed face was paled by intense thought,
intense suffering, how the light of new perception
was visible in the deep blue eyes —
seeing these things, she could not but be surprised
by the alteration she saw. She had not
dreamed that a few short days, or weeks, or
even months, could work such change in any
human personality.

There was a moment that might have been
awkward but for Barbara's adequate and
straightforward courtesy.

1 You are better ?' she said, looking into
the face that was watching hers so eagerly, so
yearningly.

She took the hand Hartas held out — a hand
so white, so thin, so tremulous, that her heart
ached to see it.

Yes, I am all right now,' he replied with

pallid lips anil somewhat troubled tone. Then
he added : ' It was good of you to come and
see me.'

1 The Canon wished it,' she said simply.

• And you would do anything he wished ?'

1 Yes, anything ! He could never ask me todo
aught I wouldn't be glad to do.'

That is high praise from you ?'

1 I didn't mean it for praise,' Bab said, discerning
instantly the unbefittingness of praise
of hers bestowed upon one like Canon Godfrey.
'I didn't mean it for that! I only
meant to say that I'd that regard for him that
I'd never had for no one in my life afore, and,
as I think, can never have for no one again.'

'Xot for Mr. Aldenmede?' Hartas asked, wishing
the word unsaid, so soon as it escaped him.

1 No, not even for him. He's good ; but
it's not quite the same sort of goodness. . . .
He's different altogether.'

Hartas was not ill-pleased to hear this
eulogy of one not only closely connected
with himself, but well-disposed toward him ;
and the change, the new power of perception
visible in Barbara, was impressing him more
at every turn of her every phrase. Her

grammar might be defective, but the utterance
of almost every word was pure and
true, and for him the inflection of each tone
had the charm, the winningness, that only
love can lend. Yet his heart did not rise to the
charm — rather did it sink, depressed, hopeful.

Quite unperceived Miss Theyn had left
these two together, and now they were walking
slowly along under the belt of all but
leafless trees that divided the wide garden
from the paddock where Mrs. Kerne's pony
was grazing at his ease. The afternoon was
warm and yellow and hazy ; a late rose or
two leaned out from the garden beds as if
craving notice for having bloomed in November,
and a very grove of hollyhocks stood in a
corner, late, straggling, and with only a few half-developed
flowers on the top of each tall stem.

Are they English flowers, those ?' Barbara
asked, touching a soft, pale pink hollyhock
with her black cotton glove. ' I was reading
of some foreign flowers the other night ina
book Mr. Aldenmede lent me, and I asked
him about them afterward. The strangest
flowers they are — orchids they call them.
There'll be some i' this garden, I reckon ?'

Don't talk of things like that, Barbara —
not now, not to-day,' Hartas pleaded, and
there was something strangely touching in his
pleading. All the old roughness — the almost
rudeness — was gone, and in the place of these
things there was a gentleness, a wistfulness, a
refinement, that had more power to move than
Barbara was prepared to resist.

1 Don't speak of those things,' he begged.
% Have you nothing else to say to me ? You
don't know how I've been hoping that you
had — hoping against hope. . . . Have you
forgotten that you saved my life? that but for
you I shouldn't have been here?

Barbara gently interrupted him.

You were drifting in,' she said, lifting a
face which had all the recollection of that
strange time written on the features of it.

Perhaps ; but it must have been very
slowly. And who can say that I should have
lived to touch the land? But let that pass, I
know in my own mind that I owe my life to
you ; and I am glad that I do. . . . I've
heard it said that people always think kindly
of anybody they've done a good turn to. . . .
But I'm not going to take advantage of that.

I know you would have clone the same
for anybody else.'

So I should if I'd been moved in the same
way,' Bab replied quietly.

Still, I can never forget.'

Nor can I.'

No ; but it will not mean the same thing
to you. I see that. . I think I saw it
before, and I made up my mind not to weary
you with the old entreaty. . . . You know what
I mean, Barbara — what is in my thought?'

Yes ; I know, and you are right in not
pressing it. It is wise and kind of you to
have made up your mind not to do that.'

She spoke so calmly, with such quiet self-possession,
that it was not possible for Hartas
to discern how her heart was sinking with
every word she uttered, sinking for the need
of love, the return of that love she was being
drawn to give so lavishly. Her very strength,
contrasted with Hartas Theyn's present weakness,
seemed a new reason for new and increasing
love. Yet when did love ever stand
in need of reason? 'Because it was he;
because it was L' That is the beginning and
the end of love's reasoning.

Hartas did not reply for a while to Barbara's
seemingly cold speech. He could not,
being chilled and hurt. At last he said
simply, ' Thank you,' but he said it in so
weary a way, with lips so pallid and eyes so
sad, that Barbara could not part from him
thus.

1 Try to understand me,' she said. ' I'm
trying — trying to do what seems right ; and
all the more I'm striving, because everybody
seems so kind and good. Think of Canon
Godfrey, of how he speaks to me, how he
looks at me. and how he thinks for me. If I
were the greatest lady in the land he could
care no more. And then Miss Theyn, your
sister. . . .'

Well, what of her?' Hartas interposed
with a touch of the old hastiness.

c Oh, I could say so much of her ! How
can I begin? She is so different,' Barbara
began enthusiastically. l She is so very different
from anybody else I have ever known
or seen.'

i She's at the root of all your hesitation —
of all my sorrow,' Hartas broke in again.

Barbara thought for a moment.

1 That's only true in one sense,' she replied.
It is because I know Miss Theyn, and see
what your wife ought to be, that I cannot say
the word you want me to say. From the
very first hour I saw her I knew that she was
the kind of lady you should have, that if any
good were to come to you, any uplifting' (forgive
the plain speaking), you should marry
some one as much above you as your sister is,
instead of one so much below you as I am.
Your father sees this ; he shows it in the very
way he looks at me. And Mrs. Kerne knows
it, and Mrs. Godfrey ; they can't help but
know. And they all feel, and one way or
another they make me feel, that I am the one
thing that stands in the way of your bettering'
yourself by marriage. Excuse the plain
words — I've none better. But now think
for a minute, how could I say that word you
want me to say, an' keep a shred of self-respect
afterward? I could not do it. But
there! . . . I've said over much. You're
none strong vet. Won't you iro into that
little summer-house and sit down?'

1 No ; I don't want to sit down. I'm not
tired — not with that sort of tiredness.'

Then presently Hartas stopped and turned,
and took the girl's hand in his, fixing his dark,
sad eyes upon her lovely, yet much pained face.

i I said I would make no plea,' he began
tremulously ; ' but I cannot, I cannot help it !
It is so terrible ! How shall I bear it ? How
shall I face the future at all? . . . Is that
your last word? . . . Would it make any
difference if my sister herself came and asked
you to be my wife?'

Barbara was nearly as pale as Hartas himself
was. The conflict within her was passionately
strong.

I cannot say that it wouldn't make a
difference,' she replied. ' I might yield, I
might; but I should always know that in one
way or another she had been forced, overcome.
. . . And no happiness could come of
it, believe me — no happiness that could last ;
none for yon, none for me. . I cannot say
all that's in me. There's a deal one can find
no expression for ; and I think and feel so
many things that I cannot say in words. . . .
Sometimes I think of your sister's marrying
as they say she's about to do, that son of
Lady Meredith's.'

vol. 11. 29

She's not Lady Meredith,' Hartas interrupted
brusquely.

'Isn't she? They always call her so over
at the Hopes. But anyhow, if your sister is
to be her daughter, how would they like
to meet me — me, a Hither-picker off the
scar ? How would Mrs. Percival Meredith
like to have to say to the grand people about
her, " This is my sister-in-law — this bait-gatherer."
. . .'

How much do you look like — like that
this afternoon?'

Barbara blushed, for once a little self-consciously.


It's not looks. I am that — just that. And
oh, how could you ever dream that foolish
dream, knowing what you did know, even
then ! I didn't know ! I wish I had known
I wish I had. But I didn't. . . . And now
there's only one thing,' Barbara continued,
lifting a pathetic, beseeching face to the sad
eyes that were watching her. £ There's only
one thing left for us. Can it be ? Will you
let it be ? Will you be my friend ?'

Friend, in that sense ? No, never f
Hartas replied with vehemence. ' It couldn't

be — it could never be! Friends! you and
me ! Think of the torture of it !'

'Torture!' Barbara repeated in surprise.

Torture ! I was thinking of it as been' only a
happiness. . . . You don't know what it would
be to me. I'm so lone at times, so desperate
lone. . . . I'd not weary you, not if I knew!'

Her very pleading, the pathos of it, the

sweet reasonableness,' were more than Hartas
could bear just then.

1 It cannot be,' he said again. ' I could
never stand it ; no, never. If there's nothing-else
left we'd better part ! . . .'

Well, then, let us part kindly,' Barbara
said, speaking with increased effort. l Then if
by chance we have to meet anywhere, we'd
meet without more — more pain than need be.'

The sun had gone down cold and wan
behind the leafless ash-trees ; a damp, misty
air was coming over the fields, over the brown
moor beyond. Hartas shivered and turned
away, white and desponding.

Pain ! There's nought else but pain nowhere.
The world's full of pain. . . . I wish
I wish you had left me to drift on to death
in peace !'

29—2

Barbara made no reply. They were near
the little gate that led out into the lane ; and
half-unconsciously their pace grew slower and
slower. It was Hartas who broke the silence
at last.

Forgive me ; I pray you to forgive me
he said in a tone and manner quite unlike
his own. 'I did not mean that — no, God
knows I did not ; and He alone knows what
my gratitude is. . I must be miserably
weak, for I meant all to be so very different
to-clay. . It was that overcame me — the
idea of parting. How can I bear it ? And
you seemed to take it so lightly, so easily

They were standing by the gate now, facing
each other. The last moment was near.
Barbara held out her hand, and on her face
was the betrayal that few can see and misunderstand.


Did }^ou suppose that I could add my
pain to yours?' she asked, suppressing the
deep undertone of feeling that struggled
below.

Then it is pain to you?'

Look in my face, and see,' Barbara replied,
quite unconsciously quoting from one of

the most beautiful and touching poems in the
English language.

1 Then if it be so — if I may know even
that — I think I can bear — I think 1 can. . . .
Yet — yet it is hard !'

A moment or two longer they stood therein
the deepening twilight, hand in hand,
heart beating to heart, loving, suffering, silent.

Each feared to add to the other's sorrow
by uttering the final last word. The afterglow
had faded from the sky; darkness was
beginning to overspread the earth with all the
strange stillness that darkness brings.

I must go,' Barbara said at last, thinking
of the little ones at home — especially of the
baby, who now sometimes seemed the best
loved of them all, and certainly needed most
of her loving attention.

I must go. , . . And in spite of what
you said, I'll look to you when I want a
friend.'

4 Come to me when you want friendliness.
. . I'd always do aught I could, you'd know
that.'

But you won't be all a friend might be tome?'


1 No. . It must be more, or less. And
you've said it is to be less.'

1 Good-night, then. . . . You'll understand
me better some day.'

I think I shall,' Hartas replied quietly,
sadly, yet with deep significance in his tone.
1 v'ill think, even yet, that there will come a
time for better understanding.'

THE BANDS OF FATE TWINE CLOSER AND YET
CLOSER.

Seldom comes the moment
In life, which is indeed sublime and weighty
To make a great decision possible.'

Coleridge.

While all these things had been happening
in the Bight down below, life had not been
standing still on the higher ground. At
last Damian Aldenmede had become acquainted
with Percival Meredith — at last he
had come to know* that everywhere it was
being said that Mr. Meredith was engaged,
or ' all but engaged,' to Miss Theyn. He
had felt a momentary stun, then disbelief
had followed. When he came to know Mr.
Percival Meredith but a little more intimately,
his disbelief had become tinged with scorn.
Thorhilda Theyn, a pure, noble-minded, high-toned

woman to marry a man like that !
But there thought paused awhile; the artist
was not the man to discolour his own soul
by even a momentary dwelling upon the imperfections
of another. Having spent one
evening in the society of Mr. Percival Meredith,
he felt no more inclination to disturb
himself. That he should make a friend of
such a man being an utter impossibility, was
it not a thousand times more impossible that
Miss Theyn should accept him for her husband,
her companion, her friend, her guide
for life ? Ah ! why trouble himself for a
second with the gossip of one village, or of
two? And the more he thought the more
certainly he convinced himself. Seeing in
imagination, in memory, those pure, farseeing,
and far-seeking gray eyes looking
into his, betraying all their depth of tenderness,
all their assurance of strength, then turning
to that other face, those other eyes withall
their disclosures of selfishness, of narrowness,
of other things to Which he put no name
how could he trouble himself any further?
And yet the trouble did not quite die down.
It might have gone lower than it did

but for a brief conversation he had had
with Gertrude Douglas, whom he had met
one morning, by untoward accident, on the
promenade. Miss Douglas was looking very
beautiful, feeling full of power — the power
that comes of youth, of beauty, of health, of
the consciousness of social adequateness.

4 Ah, is it you, is it realty you V she exclaimed
in her wonderfully sweet, and liquid
and musical voice. Her words, her pretty
laugh, came like a rippling rain of music.
How unusual it is to see you on the promenade
! I thought you despised all such
frivolities ?'

No ; I trust that contempt is not much
in my way.'

1 Oh, I don't know about that !' Miss
Douglas exclaimed, all unaware that she was
dreading upon the thinnest ice. 1 1 thought
you looked dreadfully scornful at the Harlots
the other evening — especially when you looked
at poor Mr. Meredith!'

Then Gertrude laughed a little, and blushed,
and let her long dark eyelashes droop over her
unperceptive eyes in a very effective way.
No answer coming — none being possible to

Damian Aldenmede — she went on again, quite
as unconsciously as before.

Of course I didn't wonder ; nobody who
knew as much as I know could have wondered.
. Bat don't be too much cast
down ; it isn't a settled thing yet. . . . However,
I suppose it will be soon. There is to
be another grand dinner-party at the Rectory
on the 22nd, and I expect it will be announced
that evening. . . . You will be there, of
course?'

Neo ; I shall not,' Aldenmede replied,
turning away with the scantiest courtesy,
and not able at that moment to weigh all the
contradictions and insinuations that he had
heard in their proper balance. Entering his
lodging a few minutes later, and finding the
invitation to the dinner-party Miss Douglas
had spoken of lying on his writing-table, he
could have groaned aloud for the folly that
had led him to declare his intention so prematurely.
Yet the strain of perverseness
that is in every nervous man or woman
would not permit him to accept the pleasure
now — for pleasure it would have been, however
mingled with pain. He had pain enough

as it was ; every recollection of the past,
every thought of the future, had its own
separate suffering. Even his face grew crimson,
remembering that moment in the coast -
guardsman's cottage, when he had at least
betrayed himself to himself, and hoped — ina
certain sense — that he also had betrayed
the truth to her. Yet no sign had been
given to him — or if any, then only such as
must for ever forbid his hoping. He had
watched ; he had sought her presence ; he had
refrained from seeking it : yet by no effort
could he extract any sign. The least response
to his advances, the least seeming acceptance
of his evident desire for — for friendship,
to put it at its lowest ; the smallest sign of
any hint would have given him hope. Butin
his worst moment he could do this justice
to Miss Theyn — that she had not falsely
allured him.

And meantime, how was it with Miss
Theyn herself ? Not well. None who knew
could make answer that it was well with her.
To be drawn by all that is best and purest

within you and about you on an upward road,
yet to know and feel yourself gradually gliding-downward,
can never produce aught save an
absolute misery. Ignore that misery how you
will, call it by what name you w T ill, the thing
remains the same, as sooner or later you must
know.

In excuse for her only this may be said,
that she had not divined the full depth of
the feeling Damian Aldenmede already had
for her. Half unknowingly, yet only half, she
had checked the advance he would have
made ; she had dreaded his coming farther,
nearer, even while she had hoped that he
would insist upon coming. There was his
defect. He should have treated as straws all
that stood in the way of the end he desired.


In excuse for him there was this — in his
former life he had loved, he had been
betrayed, and he had suffered. What wonder,
then, that he did not rise lightly, not gladly,
to the new hope that was before him ? How
could he even know with any sureness that
he might dare to hope?

Thorhilda was quite aw T are of the fact that

she had not given him one particle of encouragement,
yet there were moments when
she felt more than half - inclined to blame
him for doubt, for vacillation ; and these
moments came usually when she was feeling
with a dread akin to terror that her time
for vacillation was now growing perilously
short. Day by day she discerned more
clearly in the manner of almost everyone
about her —-her aunt Milicent, Mrs. Meredith,
Percival himself — that her decision, one
way or the other, must be made soon — her
binding, irrevocable decision.

Yet, despite this previous sense of preparation,
the moment came suddenly. She felt,
she hardly knew how, that a net had been
drawn about her.

For days past there had been a sort of
uncomfortable electricity in the air. The
ostensible cause of this was a dinner-party
to be given at Yarburgh Eectory on the
22nd of November. It was to be a large
party, almost unprecedentedly large ; many
of the guests were to come from afar, many to
stay all night.

It is due to Percy as well as to you,

dear, to make an occasion of it,' Mrs. Godfrey
had said gently.

And Thorliilda, understanding in a strange,
surprised sort of way, had made no reply save
such as was conveyed by a hot, sudden blush,
a pained glance, and a hasty retirement to her
own room. . . . More than ever Mrs. Godfrey
was pleased with her own. little diplomatic.

It was on that same evening that Percival
Meredith came in quite accidentally. Miss
Theyn, altogether unsuspicious, had been persuaded
by her aunt to dress a little earlier
than usual, and had come down to find Mr.
Meredith there in the drawing-room alone.
There was no lamplight as yet, only the
bright cheerful glow of the fire, the ruddy
warmth lighting up even the farthest corners
of the wide artistically-decorated room.

For a second Thorliilda showed her embarrassment
; then she came forward with a
dignity, a self-possession that Percival Meredith
admired even while feeling almost overpowered
by it. It was very natural that
there should be a moment's pause between the
two ; and it would have been difficult to say
which was the first to recover.

It was Percival Meredith who spoke first.

1 It may seem a crude thing to say, perhaps
almost cruel,' he began, in tones not free from
tremulousness, 'but do you know I am almost
odd that the time before us is so brief. We
have only a few minutes, but surely, since we
understand each other so well, have understood
each other so long, one minute
might be enough. . I have so little to say
that you do not know. It has all been said
so often, so long ago. . . . and, and do admit
it, Hilda dear, I have been so patient. . I
won't even yet say that my patience has come
to an end ; it could never do that while there
was any hope at all. . . . But surely you
won't strain it any longer ! I have insisted
that no pressure should be put upon you by
others ; I have demanded that from your
aunt and from my mother ceaselessly. I have
entreated them to let me have my own way :
assuring them that I understood you better
than they could do. . . . You will justify my
speaking so strongly, so emphatically — I
know you will. The love I have for you in
my own heart tells me that you will do that.
. . I don't yet feel elated in any way, still

less triumphant ; do you know, it seems to meas
if I could never for a moment feel any real
elation in the matter. I must always, however
happy I may be, still feel subdued in my
happiness, I may almost say humiliated,
because of my un worthiness. . . . Don't
think that I am speaking untruly, or exaggerating
what I feel ; at least tell me that you
have no thought of that kind.'

I have not,' Thorhilda replied, speaking
truly.

And in that moment she had no reason for
doubting anything that Mr. Meredith had
said. Doubt, suspicion, was not natural to
her at any time ; and in this moment of perturbation
it was not likely that she should
suddenly put on or acquire such undesirable
qualities as these.

Yet she could not, even now, say the word
that was asked of her. The timepiece on the
mantelshelf pointed to three minutes to seven.
Her uncle was always punctual, only putting
down the Bible or Prayer-book he held in his
hand when the last moment came. This both
Thorhilda and Percival Meredith knew.

Then if you have no doubt of me,'

Percival urged, coming nearer to her, taking
her hand in a warm loving grasp, ' if you do
not doubt me, if you do not doubt my love,
what can hinder you from saying the one
word I want ?'

There was a footstep on the stair, a bell
ringing in the hall ; then the door opened
behind them, and Bradshaw entered with the
lamp.

I will write to you — I will write to-night,'
Thorhilda said in a hurried whisper as Mrs.
Godfrey entered the room by the further door.

And your letter will contain a definite
answer ? Percival Meredith urged in tones
not less fervid than her own.

< Yes, yes.'

You will say yes or no ; please, promise me
this

Before Thorhilda could reply, Mrs. Godfrey
was there between them, her purple satin
crown with all its ribbons and laces rustling
impressively ; a hand was held out in congratulation
to each, her eyes were bright with
ready sympathetic tears.

It is settled, it is all settled and decided !'
she began, almost sobbing in her emotion.

vol. ii. 30

Thorhilda had no heart to undeceive her ;
nay, now she had no desire. It would be
decided so soon, and surely, surely, it must
be as her aunt Milicent was thinking:.

Very naturally Percival Meredith had no
wish to interpose. He felt that the chain was
being tightened precisely in the direction he
wished. And there was £good advice in the
old proverb, ' Let well alone.'

A NIGHT OF QUESTIONING.

The more insight a man acquires into human
nature, the more it seems possible to him that
a human life may be lived from the cradle to
the grave without once even for one whole
hour having been seriously brought face to
face with any serious human problem.

Thorhilda Theyn imagined that she had
faced many problems, and, as we have seen,
her life was no thoughtless, careless life. Her
character had always been a more or less perplexing
and contradictory one. Her uncle
Godfrey, discerning the inconsistencies of her
temperament while she was yet quite young
had done his utmost to bring about certain
changes, certain developments which should
tend to a greater harmony, and his efforts had
been by no means unavailing. The very

30—2

difficulty he had had, the mere fact that he
had watched over so many struggles, noted so
many small conquests, witnessed the growth
of such a sweet affectionately, the dawning
and increasing of an intellect so clear, so full
of fine perception, the strengthening of all
impulses toward things good and right and
pure and true, the very fact that it had been
his duty, his pleasure, thus to watch over her,
to endeavour to influence her, had drawn the
bond of affectionate relationship closer and
closer between them. No father or daughter
could have been nearer to each other, or
dearer. Yet the Canon had never allowed
his tenderness to blind him. He knew of
the struggle that was going on now ; it
may be that he understood its true nature
better than Thorhilda herself did. And
if he said but little, he prayed the more,
not dreaming how his prayer was to be
answered.

Percival Meredith stayed to dinner that
evening, declaring that he had not intended
it, in proof of which he glanced toward his
morning coat ; and when, after dinner, 
and her aunt entered the drawing-room

together, arm-in-arm, they found Gertrude
Douglas there — a thing that often happened
she was always made welcome.

It must be so dreadfully dull for her at
home,' Mrs. Godfrey would remark to her
husband. ' And with all her talent for sociability,
it seems such a pity that she should
be buried night after night the winter
through in that most dingy of little parlours.'


1 But the father and mother !' the Canon
said suggestively.

1 Ah, they have lived their life ! Gertrude
is not, unhappily, very young ; but all her
life, her true life, is yet to live. . . . Oh, I
think of her often ! There is no one in all
this neighbourhood suitable for her; and
when Thorda is happily settled I shall certainly
try to do something for Gertrude —
take her to some southern watering-place fora
couple of months, or even go abroad with
her. . . . There is no one else to do anything
to help her; and if she was as attractive as
Circe herself, she could not round the chances
of her life in a neighbourhood like this. . . .
And she is so clever, so charming, so amiable

oh ! I must turn my attention to her when
this is over.'

It was not often that Canon Godfrey said
a severe thing, or aught that had even the
shadow of severity about it. But his eyes
were not closed.

I have no wish to interfere for one moment
with one kindly intention of yours, my dear
Milicent,' he replied ; ' but I have a firm impression
that Miss Douglas is quite equal to
taking care of herself. It seems to me even
probable that if she had been less evidently
equal, less effort had been needed on the part
of her friends. . . . Most men like to do
what I did myself — to discover for themselves
the goodness, the truth, the real beauty of
character of the woman they would choose for
their wife. . . . Nothing distresses me so
much as to think of effort being made, even
of the slightest, to interfere with absolute
freedom of choice — if, indeed, that is the right
word — but it is not. True men, true women
have no choice in the matter. It is almost a
vulgarism in these days to say that marriages
are made in heaven ; my feeling certainly is
this, that the happiest and highest marriages

nre not made at all — they are the result of
most inevitable laws. One feels that this had
to be ; this, and no other.'

1 Ah, well ! you are a little Quixotic, dear ;
you always were in such matters as these —
not that I have thought any the less of you
for that.'

The Canon understood Miss Douglas better
than his wife did; and yet even he did not
comprehend her shallow nature to its last
widening ring. On this evening she was a
little perturbed by something that had happened
at home ; and her perturbation took
the form it often did, making itself evident ina
restless, glittering, fascinating excitement of
word and manner. For an hour or so after
the two gentlemen had come back to the
drawing-room she took the lead in conversation,
and her uncertainly-directed effort was
not unsuccessful. Part of the time she walked
up and down the room, declaring herself
utterly unable to sit still.

I know what you must be thinking of me,'
she said laughingly, as she turned once more,
her rose-coloured dress shining as she came
nearer the lamp, the large and fine outlines of

her figure showing; to more and more advantage.
' I know what you must be thinking.
I once read a novel, years ago — it seemed tome
stupid and antiquated even then ; now I
believe that it, and the set it belongs to, are
all the fashion among people of culture. I
haven't any culture, I never had, and therefore
I don't admire " Pride and Prejudice,"
nor any other of Miss Austen's novels. Yet
I will say this — you can't forget them ! Just
now myself reminded myself of a certain
scene : A young lady, a Miss Single, is
walking about a drawing-room one evening,
and the gentleman to whom her attentions are
directed perceives that she has a good figure,
and has taken this method of displaying it.
I never get up to walk about for five minutes
Without thinking of that scene.'

1 A proof of the graphic forgetfulness of Miss
Austen's writing,' Canon Godfrey interposed.

1 And yet, Uncle Hugh,' Thorhilda replied,
with the exception of the characters of Emma
Poorhouse and Anne Elliot, there are not
many characters one would care to choose as
patterns in life ; and Emma is as charming by
reason of her faults as of her virtues. The

whole atmosphere of Miss Austen's novels is
full of a charm all her own ; yet surely it
is not so very elevating, not so very full of
incentive to live and move by the highest
standard of all. For instance, everyone in
marrying, or, in giving in marriage, thinks
first of a decent settlement.'

i That is precisely why and where I can
admire her novels,' Gertrude Douglas broke
in, cutting in two the very sentence in which
Thorhilda had meant to explain something
of her own ideal — perhaps to the benefit of
more than one listener present there.

That characteristic of her books would
alone be sufficient to win me to her side
Miss Douglas declared, with an openness of
revelation meant to be enchanting, but which
was more or less of a shock to at least one
listener. ' It is the merest hypocrisy to
declare that poverty may be preferable to
wealth, and we all of us know it — that is,
all of us to whom the word " poverty " brings
any meaning whatever. But what do you
know of it, Thorda dear ? What can you
ever know ? . . . I don't want to speak of
myself — it is not good taste, I am aware. . . .

But in all your life you have never suffered so
much as I have done this week because one of
my father's two farms is unlet and he cannot
find a tenant'

And then even Miss Douglas's fine powers
of self-sustenance gave way in a slight measure.
She still continued to walk to and fro
between the lamplight and the shade ; but
only those who watched her closely could seethe
tears that heightened the lustre of her
bright eyes, the quivering that deepened the
pathos of her beautiful mouth.

I know you are friends, all of you,' she
continued by-and-by, With most pathetic tones
in her liquid and musical voice. ' If you had
not been, I could not have spoken so. . . . And
I have said nothing — nothing of all that I
might have said, of all that even this seemingly
slight matter means to me. . I would
not have spoken at all but for your sake,
Thorda dear, that you might feel to the full
how happy you are, what splendid reasons
you have for being happy !'

Thorhilcla was sitting upon the sofa by her
aunt's side ; she was soon overcome by this
unusual display of emotion. Percival Meredith,

sitting opposite to her, staring into the
glowing fire, seemed lost in a very mist of
perplexity. He hardly dared to lift his eyes
to the tearful face of Miss Douglas ; yet, for
the first time, her voice sounded strangely
winning in his ears, strangely charged with
some new spell of enchantment. Was this
indeed the voice he had listened to so often?
Were these the tones he had heard with such
indifference ?

There were no signs of any further breaking
down on the part of Miss Douglas ; yet by-and-by
Thorhilda drew her away to her own
room, where a cheery fire was burning, with
an easy chair pushed forward to the fender,
a pale blue dressing-gown laid ready, with
fur-lined slippers, cashmere shall, and tiny
gipsy-table with its tray of lovely china all
prepared for the last cup of hot chocolate.
Brushes were spread out upon the toilette-table,
hot water ready in the cans, a maid
was waiting in the dressing-room that was
between Thorhilcla's room and the one occupied
by Miss Douglas.

Gertrude Douglas understood all that was
to be decided that night to the full — perhaps

even better than Miss Then herself understood.


Was it only during the last few hours that
a new and strange idea had taken possession
of Gertrude's mind and heart?

Had the uplifted face, the admiring eyes,
the expression of deep sympathy she had
discerned while watching Percival Meredith
aught to do with the attitude she displayed
now? Thorhilda was instantly aware of
change.

Do think of it all, dear — do think seriously
Miss Douglas begged, seating herself in the
depth of the easiest of easy-chairs, and sinking
back exhausted with the contending emotions
of the evening. 'Do think! It is not a
matter of life and death, but it is all-important
so far as life is concerned. Have courage,
dear. If you cannot love him as you feel you
ought to love your future husband, do dare to
say so ! . . . And if there should be anyone
else — I don't mean anyone in particular — but
if there should be, do not let anything that I
have said come between you. After all, wealth
or poverty, what is it? It is only for this life,
dear!'

For almost the first time the ring of — not
falseness, but of the want of certain coherent
sincerity, smote upon the heart and brain of
Thorhilda as an outward blow had done.
She raised her head from Miss Douglas's
knee, said ' goodnight ' in a kind of stupor,
and went to her own room, dispensing with
the services of her maid for that night.

For awhile she sat alone, not caring to
take off even the few ornaments she had
worn, but resting her wearied head upon the
sofa before the fire.

1 Lonely !' she said, in the half-audible
whisper that people use who are roused by
deep emotion. ' Lonely ! How anyone might
smile to hear me utter the word! The one
intimate friend with which circumstance has
provided me is in the next room ; the two
kindest guardians that ever woman had are in
the room below ; and the one man whom I
know does love me greatly is not half a dozen
miles away. . . . Yet, yet, I am as lonely as
the loneliest woman in the world!'

Presently she rose to her feet, and began
walking up and down the room; and when her
eye caught sight of her writing-table, the

paper lying ready, the pens in admired disorder,
everything seeming to await that one
word she had promised to write, she felt impelled
all at once to a new level of thought
and emotion.

Was it possible that she had yet a decision
to make? No, that could not be ! . . . Yet
she might still unmake one — one made rather
by others than by herself.

It was a terrible hour.

A more passionately - loving woman, or
one aroused to a deeper depth of passionate
human loving, had known no such inner
contention.

She had only been partially aware of the
betrayal of which Damian Aldenmede had
been guilty that night in the coastguards -
man's cottage, and it was not in her nature
to dwell upon an accidental word wrung
from a man by the sight of a woman's
suffering.

She had never at any time dwelt much
upon the idea that the artist might care for
her, nor was she a woman to linger in long
reverie over such a possibility. She had
been drawn to him — drawn by his superiority

over every other man she had met — and she
had been fully aware of the fact that he had
reciprocated to the full whatever feeling of
mere admiration she had given to him. Beyond
that she had not consciously permitted her
thought, her emotion to stray. How far
she might be governed by things of which
she was largely unconscious she could not
know. We none of us know. We are influenced
by motives we have never suspected,
led by hopes we have never grasped,
deluded by visions into which we have never
looked. So it is that men find themselves
on the edge of precipices from which they
start back aghast, like travellers coming to
the cliff-top in the thick white mist of autumn
evenings. It is well for the traveller who
has firm and safe land behind him to retreat
upon.

All complications, all pressures notwithstanding,
Thorhilda They 11 knew that up to
this hour safety was hers. Yet she did not
say to herself, as she might have done, that
by one strong wrench she might break every
strand of the fine network of circumstance
by which she was enmeshed.

Of a dozen people knowing the truth as
to the battle she fought alone in her own
room that night, it is possible that while six
might have blamed her, the other six would
certainly have been found sad for pity.

It must be remembered that she was still
young. Where is the man or woman who
has passed from childhood to middle age without
making some grievous mistakes? Who
has known nothing of love's treachery? — of
the betrayal of that love which ' was not love
at all but yet came with all fair and plausible
seeming and promise of love?

And Thorhilda Theyn was not only young.
Notwithstanding a certain adequate intellectual
development, she was still simply and
singularly youthful in many ways ; almost
impossibly youthful. In the matter of love,
and all love's mystic meaning, she was little
more than a child.

The little she did know she had been told,
and that not too wisely. Had she known the
truth with regard to herself that night, she
would have known that the real love of her
heart had yet to be truly awakened.

Yet so long, so persistently had her aunt

Milicent, whom she trusted to the uttermost,
seemed to consider her love for Percival
Meredith a settled thing, that hardly one
thought of question on this head seemed to
rise up to confront her. And it was not only
Mrs. Godfrey who had done this grievous
thing ; Mrs. Meredith had added her share
of the weight of pressure ; Gertrude Douglas
until to-night — had added hers. And of
late the Canon had been all but silent — silent
with a silence that was one day to be his
bitterest memory.

So it was that she was left alone to fight
with her worst enemy, herself ; to see on one
hand the luxury, the ease, the freedom from
care, the presence of every desirable thing
that had come to seem needful to her life.
There was no need for imagination here.
She saw this strong temptation in its highest
light, clearly, distinctly.

And why should she look upon it as a
temptation at all ? why not accept all that
was offered to her in the spirit in which
everyone who surrounded her was expecting
her to accept it — as a natural result, a natural
consequence ?

vol. 11. 31

In this question and its answer lay all her
difficulty. There was only one answer ; and
she returned it to herself, shrinking from its
full meaning.

1 1 have not been able to accept the offer
of Percival Meredith's hand at once, and
without hesitation, because I know that in
marrying I should wish to feel that my
husband was the best man I had ever seen ;
the highest souled I had ever known. I
appreciate Mrs. Browning's utterance on this
head to the full :

'sunless you can think when the song is done,

No other is soft in the rhythm ;
Unless you can feel when left by one,

That all men else go with him.
Unless you can know when upraised by his breath

That your beauty itself wants proving ;
Unless you can swear, ' For life, for death !'

Oh, fear to call it loving."

4 Is it thus with me ? It is not. But they
say, they all say, that this is only natural,
that that deeper, intense love will come.
Perhaps it might have done, perhaps it
might, if I had never seen any other man,
any higher, nobler, greater. And I believe,
I admit it to myself now and here, that that
other is as much greater in soul as he is

poorer in means. As to whether he cares forme
or not, with that caring, I do not know,
I only dream. Certainly it is nothing but a
dream, and one that, perhaps, could never be
realized. Of Percival's love I am very sure.
And I mean to live as truly as I can, as
nobly : but if I fail, shall I not remember ?
shall I not see a strong, spiritual face looking
into mine, looking sadly, reproachfully, the
face of one who would have led me onward
and upward, step by step ?'

Then for awhile thought itself seemed to
pause ; and the visions that came were not
such as to fix themselves on the mind by
means of formed words and phrases. And
each vision seemed to be twofold, to disclose
now this side, now that. At last quite
suddenly, as day began to break, worn and
wearied with the night's perplexity, 
threw herself on the sofa by her writing-table
and began to write.

I will think no more, I will hesitate no
more,' she said to herself in some agitation.
1 I will give my promise to Percival Meredith,
and my life to God. . . May He do with meas
He will.'

31—2

The note was written in the gray dawn ;
then Miss Theyn slept awhile, to be awakened
by a very hurricane of wind and rain dashing
upon her casement ; and even then it seemed
as if at the foot of the far-off cliffs she could
hear the sounding of the sleepless melancholy
sea.

Xot the sort of morning one would have
chosen to make one's first greeting to " a
plighted bride' isn't that the proper phrase,
dear ?' her aunt Milicent said an hour or two
later when Thorda went down. The cheeriest
and warmest of coal fires was burning in the
wide grate, lighting up the dining-room with
a ruddy glow. Mrs. Godfrey kissed the girl
with a warm and motherly kiss on either
cheek ; the Canon's lips were pressed tenderly
to her forehead ; and he held her hand awhile,
not caring to look much into the face he had
read at the first glance.

Presently a bell was rung, the servants
came in, and sat down quietly in their places,
and the Canon opened his Bible and read :

1 The light of the body is the eye : if, therefore, thine eye
be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

No man can serve two masters : for either he will hate the

cue, and love the other ; or else he will hold to the one and
despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

1 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life,
what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink ; nor yet for your
body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat,
and the body than raiment ?

1 Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness ;
and all these things shall be added unto you.'

'late, late, so late!'

At peace ! ay, the peace of the ocean,
When past is the storm when we foundered,
And eager and breathless the mora in g
Looks over the waste.'

W. W. Story.

A dinner-party of eight-and-twenty people
must always mean the mingling of some very
different, not to say discordant, elements ; and
the party given in honour of Miss Theyn's
eno;ao;ement to Mr. Percival Meredith could
be no exception to this interesting rule.

The scene — taking it merely as a scene —
was an unusually brilliant one. Certainly —

The tabours played their best.
Lamps above and laughs below.'

And perhaps some present there might afterward
have finished the quotation —

" Love me'' sounded like a jest,
Fit for yes, or fit for no."

But Miss Theyn could not be numbered
among them. Lorn?; afterward it was remarked
that she had never looked more
beautiful, more winning, more touching, more
sad. Many there did not see the sadness.
Her quietude was taken for maiden modesty ;
her wistful, wondering look for the new
tenderness always born of love. She moved
about the rooms like a very embodiment of
grace and beauty, of sweetness, and almost
pathetic gentleness. Mr. Egerton (the
Canon's curate,' as Mrs. Kerne was careful
always to describe him), watching Miss
Theyn on this eventful evening, knew that
he had never before seen such outward and
visible sho-ris of the inward and beautiful
grace of humility. It was not only the
down-dropt eyes, the restrained smile, the
new paleness ; but something in her smile,
her grace, her attitude, betrayed to him that
all this demonstration of gaiety and festivity,
so well and kindly intended, so far as the
Canon and his wife were concerned, was not
exactly in accord with the inward mood of

her for whom it was mainly meant. Mr.
Egerton could not quite understand his own
feeling. Where all should have been joy,
gladness, congratulation, he was moved, all
unaware of any reason, to something that
was curiously like pity, strangely akin to
compassion. And inevitably Miss Theyn discerned
how it was with him, and returned
the pressure of his hand with a gentle, meaning
warmth that he could not forget. Afterward
— long, long afterward he understood.

Everybody was there !' Mrs. Kerne said,
describing the evening to a friend of hers on
the following day. ' An' it was the prettiest
dinner-party I ever was at. The dresses was
splendid — they really was. My niece 
wore a cream satin, very plain, very
simply made, but very good. It was like an
old brocade for that : it would ha' stood by
itself splendid. An' she'd some magnificent
old lace all about it, real Brussels, 'at had
belonged to Mrs. Godfrey's mother ; she was a
cousin of the Duke of St. Dunstan's ; that
was how the father, old Chalgrove, got the
living ; and how it came to pass 'at the Duke
an' Duchess took such notice of them all.

Why, I don't believe 'at the education o' that
family o' girls ever cost the father sixpence.
. . An' so far so good ; but they needn't
hold their heads quite so high as they do ;
though I must say 'at I consider Mrs. Godfrey
a real lady, down to the toes of her shoes.
An' that's more nor I'd ever say for Averil
Chalgrove.'

But you don't mean to say that she was
there?' inquired Mrs. Kerne's interlocutor,
who was none other than Mrs. Monk-preston,'
the wife of the principal lawyer of Market
Yarburgh,

There ! my dear ; yes, and with all her
war-paint on, I can assure you. And truth
to say, she amazes me ! She's forty-seven, if
she's a day ; and you'd never ha' taken her
for much over thirty. Would you believe
it, she'd a cream lace dress on ; and all tossed
off wi' splendid dark red chrysanthemums.
An' she'd a great diamond pendant at her
throat, half as big again as that 'at poor
Kerne gave £60 for the day we'd been married
twenty year. She's none a favourite o' mine,
she's over proud an' stiff for that ; but I'm
bound to say she looked every inch a lady,

an' behaved like one. They do do that, them
ChaloTOves.'

But who else was there ? You have told
me nothing yet.'

Oh, there's none so much to tell. One
dinner-party's very much like another. The
rooms looked beautiful ; the lamps had splendid
shades, so had the candles ; and the
flowers was beyond all description. A lot o'
them came from abroad ; I got that out of
Mrs. Godfrey herself. An' then the music

made such a difference ■ Oh me ; if I was

a grand lady I'd alius lev music at dinner-time.'


But who played ? surely not any of the
guests ?'

Mrs. Kerne paused a moment, quite a pitiful
look mingling with the look of superior
understanding on her face.

Who played ? why the band played, to
be sure ; the Volunteer band from Danes-borough.'


1 Oh. really ! But wasn't it very loud ?'

Loud ? not a bit of it. At first, in fact,
we couldn't hear 'em at all. The Canon had
asked 'em to play in the courtyard at the

back of the Rectory. An' by-an'-by Mrs.
Godfrey appealed to me — 'twas very nice an'
polite of her really — " Mrs. Kerne," she sayst;
can yon hear the band ? What do you
think ? Had we better lev' it a little nearer ?
Would it be too near in the ante-room, d' ya
think T '

i So I said no. I thought it 'ud be a deal
better ; so she sends a message by the butler,
an' within live minutes the band was playing
just in the next room, so soft, so beautiful,
so overcoming' 'at you could hardly help the
tears, specially not when they played " Home,
Sweet Home," and the " Last Rose o'
Summer." Believe me, I put down my knife
an' fork upon the finest bit o' partridge ! I
couldn't ha' eaten it wi' my heart swelling' sono
I couldn't ; though I don't make out
'at I'm one of the softest-hearted sort o' folk.
Still, there's moments, I reckon, there's
moments i' most lives, an' that was one,
certainly that was one !'

1 But you've not told me yet who the main
part of the guests were !' Mrs. Monk-preston
said with a little querulousness. She had not
the suave manner of your true interviewer. But

then, the interviewer is like the poet — born,
not made.

i Oh, I've no list of em,' Mrs. Kerne
replied, in a manner meant to be grand, but
which was only rude and brusque. ' I've no
list of 'em; an' titles don't dazzle me, as they do
some folk. I saw no more in Lord Hermeston
than I did in the Canon, maybe not so much.
An' as for Sir Robert an' Lady Bennington,
well, if it weren't for the title I reckon they'd
never be received into no first-rate society.'

You don't say so ! . . . But Lady Thelton
now, wasn't she there V

Of course she was ; no party at the Rectory
would be complete without her. And very
handsome and stylish she looked with her
rubies, and her point lace, and her dark red
velvet dress. . . . But I make nought of all
that ! What did take me, was her real politeness.
She spoke to me about the engagement
as feelingly as if my niece had been my own
slaughter. In truth, altogether, I was struck
with the way in which everybody seemed to
be interested. In point of fact, it was a real
sensation ; an' so he seemed to think. As
for her — my niece — well, I must say she was

more like a white marble statue than a girl
just engaged to be married. And with all
these grand folks about her ; and all making'
so much to do, I didn't, at the bottom of my
heart, think it was quite nice of her. But
then she was always one o' that sort, sweet
aniuT, an' nice snuff in her own way — but
then, her way was her own, an' it was a
little bit " stuck up," as the saying' goes ; but
if I didn't altogether like it, Td no need
to give in to it ; an I never did. Yet, I'll
do her the justice to say as she never resented
it, never bore me no ill-will. She was as
sweet last night as if we'd alius been the best
friends in the world. She's no bitterness
about her.'

And Mr. Aldenmede, the artist, wasn't he
there ? I've heard more than one say that he
had ideas about Miss Theyn himself. They've
been seen talking' on the beach over and over
again

Mrs. Kerne's smile was wonderful to see,
it was so superior, so pitiful, so full of 
meaning.

Him have ideas ! No doubt. But if my
niece isn't very sharp, she's not quite a fool !

An' as for him been' asked to dine at the
Rectory on such an occasion as that — well, it
wasn't very likely.'

Such was the terrible drift of the gossip
that was circulating almost everywhere. It
was well for Thorhilda that she did not even
dream of it.

She had made her choice ; she would abide
by it — so she was determining while everyone
about her was congratulating her on the
happiness of her choice.

For some days she avoided any moment of
calm reflection, and this of set purpose.
Miss Douglas was asked to come and stay at
the Rectory, to occupy the room next to
Thorhilda's ; and each nio-ht the last, worst
moments were passed in conversation that
seldom came near the one matter predominant
above all others in Thorhilda's heart and soul.
It was strange, and Gertrude Douglas knew
it to be strange, that she was hardy permitted
to mention the name of Percival Meredith.

1 You are so different from me, dear,' she
said one night as she sat by Thorhilda's lire,
her long, pretty brown hair flowing over her
pale pink flannel dressing-gown, her dark,

bright eyes alight with interest, with curiosity.
You are so different from me ! If I loved
anyone, I think I should wish always to be
near them, or at any rate always near to someone
who would talk to me of the one I loved.
And you — you seem to shrink if I mention
Mr. Meredith's name! Why is it? Do you
know why? Are you conscious of it at all
yourself !'

Thorhilda was silent for a moment — silent
and even paler than usual.

1 think I am only conscious so far,' she
said at last. ' It seems now such a terrible
matter; for life or for death. There is no
escape.'

Escape ! My dear child, what an odd
word to have in your head ! Escape from
Percival Meredith ! from Ormston Magna !
from nearly three thousand a year ! My dear,
cautious-speaking old father says two thousand
five hundred. And you speak of escape ! My
child, are you insane?'

I am not sure,' Thorhilda said slowly.
I am not sure ! You are putting words to
thoughts that have been in my mind for
some time. AVhat is sanity — pure, clear,

human sanity? . I am not so sure that I
know !'

This was beyond Miss Douglas ; she
laughed a low, sweet, empty laugh, drew
Thorhilda down to the sofa by the fire, and
held her younger friend's hand affectionately
in her own.

Don't tempt Providence, dear,' she said
with sufficient solemnity. ' I am not an
envious person — if I were, I should envy you
from the bottom of my heart. It seemed tome
that you have everything any human
being could wish for. You have a good
home — I might say a luxurious one ; but I
know that that would pain you; you have the
kindest of kind friends; and now, to crown
all, the Prince comes by. He throws himself
at your feet; and after long enough probation,
you bid him rise and allow him to kiss the
tips of your fingers. Having clone that, you
put on a melancholy air as if the sacrifice were
too much for you.'

All this was far too near the truth to be
quite pleasant; and it was small wonder that
Miss Theyn avoided such conversation as
much as was possible. Yet she could not

avoid the growing sense of being bound, irrevocably
bound.

1 1 suppose it is always so,' she said to herself
one night, standing alone by the window
of her own room.

It was a clear, calm, moonlit night. The
trees in the garden stood still and gray, the
mystic interweaving of the leafless branches
showing against the silver-toned ether beyond.
It was a night, a scene, to compel the soul
to be truthful to itself, however painful
such truth might be; and Thorhilda Theyn
could not escape from that compelling influence.


I suppose it is so with all thinking women,'
she said. ' To have given one's self to another
must be to know one's self poorer for the gift !
How strange it is to be called upon to surrender
one's very identity. It is certainly
fitting and typical that one should lose one's
very name. And to be congratulated, felicitated
on every hand as if it were the greatest
good that had come to one — a good with no
drawback, a gain with no loss ! Is that why
the whole thing is smothered in finery and
the tawdriest of outward show — that a

vol. 11. 32

woman may not think — that she may bedazzled
by the millinery of the whole affair
to such an extent that she may not have time
to think of the hereafter? Is this what marriage
means? Is this the highest? Is this
the best?'

This time of storm and stress lasted for
some days after the irrevocable word had been
given; but naturally it wore itself out. It is
seldom given to human nature to remain long
upon the mountain peak of any emotion whatever.


Preparations for the marriage were being
hurried forward ; in one way or another,
things connected with the approaching change
in her life came to the surface every hour.
Did she need a new gown, or pair of boots?
She was reminded that it would be better to
wait a little while — a very little — then to
choose this for travelling, that for receptions,
and so forth. She was never allowed to
forget.

Percival Meredith came and went. He
was quiet, happy, never visibly triumphant,
or over-assured to any offensive degree. He
understood too well for that. He sat on the

sofa in the Rectory drawing-room, rather
silent, well-bred, distinguished-looking, waiting
upon Thorhilda's lightest word, letting
no wish or desire of hers escape him. Yet
he was never obtrusive, never forward, or
exigeanf.

Mrs. Godfrey marvelled a little at them
both. Were these lovers — these two reticent,
self-contained people, who spoke of the
weather and the crops,' ' Shakespeare and
the musical glasses,' with such perfect equanimity?
The Rector's wife was even a little
impatient at times. Being so full of life, and
of all life's minor enthusiasms, herself, it chafed
her to watch the unmoved bearing of two
people who should have been — so to speak —
electric with sympathy, with emotion; who
should have rarefied the very atmosphere
about them with the fervidness, the intensity
of their affection.

1 Well,' she said one day to Gertrude
Douglas, who was full of understanding as to
this perplexing state of things. ' Well, I
suppose we are not made alike; but when I
remember the last few weeks before my own
marriage, and then look at Thorda, I am all

32—2

bewilderment. Looking back upon myself,
upon the state of exaltation I was in, and
then turning to watch her — her perfect self-control,
her unbroken quietness, her nearer
manner, her unnerved glance — I cannot, I
cannot but dread that all this means indifference.
. . . Why should she be so hard to
move? She is not cold-hearted — anything
but that. Indeed I have always felt that
somewhere in her nature there must be a
most passionate intensity of lovingness. I
had hoped to see it come to the surface now ;
I felt sure of it. Yet day by day I wait
and watch, and the day ends in disappointment.'


Yet she isn't reserved with one,' ]\ii>>
Douglas said musingly.

Reserved ! No, not exactly that ; nor
exactly open. The reserve is somehow
thrown upon one's self. I do not — I do not
dare to speak the simple truth ; I do not dare
to question her, to remonstrate with her.
What is there that one could take hold of?
She receives Percival with all kindness, all
politeness ! If she would but once be a little
rude, a little brusque, one would dare to speak.'

But that she will never be said Gertrude
Douglas, who fell again into that unusual
mood of absent-mindedness ; and was not
again to be aroused out of it during the whole
of the afternoon. What new and forcible
idea had taken possession of her, who should

1 SOMEWHERE THERE MUST BE LIGHT.'

The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
I do give lost, for I do feel it gone.'

Shakespeare.

Outwardly Barbara's life was going on much
as it had always done ; but the changes of
which she never spoke were not small, not
unimportant.

It was no light matter to have an infant to
care for in addition to the four children she
had cared and toiled for before. True, the
neighbours were good, and any fishwife on
the Forecliff would take ' Bab's Ildy ' for a
few hours while Barbara went, as of old, to
the whither-beds, or sat at the herring-house
4 scaling mussels,' or ' baiting lines,' or mending
nets, or doing any of the hundred and one
things by which the wives and daughters of

the fishermen earn a little money to help in the
providing of the household needs. There was
no other house on the Forecliff where the
burden of providing for a family fell upon a
girl not yet twenty.

Bab had never before suffered much from
the narrowness of her narrow means. She
had never known anything else. Economy of
the closest had been familiar to her from her
very childhood. To have a dinner — and that
a scanty one — of animal food once a week, on
a Sunday usually, was all that she had ever
dreamed of.

And Bab had had no lessons in cooking ;
she had never seen a scientific scale of diet ;
she knew nothing of the various values of
various foods. That albumen should not be
hardened; that osmazome should be retained ;
that ' body-farmers and ' flesh formers '
should be given in about equal quantities
alas ! all this was unknown to Barbara
Burdas ; yet she did her best, obeying
instinct, which goes for something, and
tradition, which is worth less, but yet
is binding when no other light or law is
known.

The wonder of it was that Bab herself
had always had such splendid health ; her
complexion was bright and clear, the carmine
tints of it full and vivid ; her deep blue eyes
were as lustrous and as beautiful as if her
diet had been regulated by a whole college
of physicians. And it was the same with the
little ones. The three lads, rude, robust,
seemed likely to suffer far more from plethora
than from inanition ; and if little Ailsie's more
delicate frame caused greater fear, greater perplexity,
this was not shared by any who knew
the sacrifice that Bab was even now making.

Over and over, a few pence at a time, she
had saved enough to buy this book or that,
usually one lent to her by Damian Aldenmede,
but which in her natural independence she had
declined to keep.

1 1 have kept so many,' she said one evening.
' Why, there's over twenty on the shelf
upstairs; an' your shelves, in your own room,
look as bare as can be. It fairly made my
heart ache to see them.'

It need not,' Aldenmede replied quite carelessly.
' I have some other shelves at home,
not badly filled.'

Assail Bab had looked into his face with
that questioning look he knew so well, and
which amused him so deeply. Some time he
would satisfy her questions by an answer he
liked to think of. Meanwhile he found a
rather cruel amusement in raising her wonder,
her interest, and then watching how she forbore
to ask a single question in words that
could betray curiosity. Already he was proud
of Bab.

But yet how little, how very little, he knew
of her real life ! He had acquaintance enough
with the interior arrangements of the cottage
on the ForeclifF not to intrude when the midday
meal was on the table. How he might
have shivered to see six people enjoying a
dish made of the boiled udder of a cow ; of a
gaunt and spare salted cod's head ; and yet
the dishes were, in their way, nourishing ;
witness the boys, whose hardy, rosy cheeks
might have made many a richer mother envious
! And almost each evening came a
supper that might be more nourishing still.
Bab seldom failed to prepare a big kettle of
rice boiled in the quart of skim milk which
she could purchase for three-halfpence; or to

fill the big frying-pan with potatoes and
onions, and a scrap of good salted fish if she
could get it. It is certain that there were
children on the ForeclifF worse fed than those
brought up by poor, ignorant Bab Burdas.

But it was for little Ailsie, and Nan's baby,
that time after time her hoard of money, one
shilling or two, had to be taken to buy better
food — now a tin of costly seeming farinaceous
food for little Ilcly (named Thorhilda in the
register of the parish church at Yarburgh,
but never again till a recent event in her girl-life
demanded it). And now the shilling or
the sixpence was taken to buy a real mutton-chop;
or a few ounces of real port wine for
her little sister who was always so quiet, so
pale, yet so bright, so good, so full of small
childish sympathies.

It was only by watching, by slowly and
silently watching, that David Andoe came to
discern what it really meant to Bab to have
the charge of his sister's child ; and his instinct
led him to perceive that no offer of help
on his part would be welcome. Once or twice
he had called to see Nan's baby ; he had bent
over the cradle where the little one lay sleeping

; not only in quietness and cleanliness,
but with some attempt at daintiness all about
her. Barbara told him that Miss Theyn had
sent the swing-cot, with all its pretty chintz
draperies, its loops and bows of rose-red
ribbon. A small white counterpane covered
the warm blanket. The little Ildy lay smiling
upon the soft pillow ; happy, comfortable as
the veriest princess of a baby might have been.
Bab's pride was touching to see.

David smiled and sighed both in a breath
as he watched the child. How did Barbara
manage to do all her own work, and yet make
possible such home-life as this ? The Sagged
House was but very little better furnished than
his own home ; yet, ah, the difference !

Here the brick floor was clean and wholesome
— at home it was so foul that no one
might say whether it was brick or stone.
Here the old oaken dresser with its blue
plates, its suspended cups and jugs, was a
pleasant thing to contemplate ; at home hardly
a piece of crockery ware was to be found that
was not dirty, or cracked, or actually broken.
And then under the dresser Barbara had
ranged her copper tea-kettle, her bright brass

pans, her brass candlesticks — heirlooms these
for the most part, and seldom to be used in
the common daily life. That Bab was a little
proud of them was known all over the Fore-cliff,
and helped in some vague way to add to
the impression that she was not quite as the
other fisher-folk were. David Andoe saw it all
again, and again it saddened him to a degree
of sadness lower than before. The contrast
was too pointed.

There was no pile of ill-smelling nets or
lines cumbering the floor here ; no dishes of
potato-peeling standing about the floor for
elderly and ragged-looking fowls to come in
and peck at at their pleasure. Even old
Ephraim's sou'wester hung in the tiny passage,
and his sea-boots stood within the door
of the coal-shed outside. Barbara was as
sensitive to strong odours as any lady of her
land.

David did not enter into any details as he
sat there. All that he knew, or rather felt,
Alas that he sat by a home fireside where there
was warmth, and order, and peace, and the
certain security that comes of the presence of
but one human bein<c whose character is

strong and stable, and pure. This was rest ;
this was soothing ! Had hope been there, it
had been happiness of the finest.

He could not help speaking out of his full
heart. His training had not been such as to
lead him on to the finer and more perfect
restraints.

It's like been' in heaven, Barber, this is I'
the poor fellow said, in somewhat pathetic
tones, as he drew near to the blazing fire.
Old Ephraim was nodding in his chair on the
other side of the fire ; the children were all in
bed and asleep. A lamp burnt clearly and
brightly on the table ; Barbara sat by the
little cot, her knitting in her hand, the needles
plying fast, yet not claiming all her attention.
Every moment or two she glanced at the little
Ildv. touching: the cradle to a light rocking
movement if the baby seemed restless, leaving
it alone if she slept in peace. Bab had had
no training in such matters, but her instinct
being kindly — nay, loving — reason served her
for the rest.

1 It is like heaven David said in a low,
touching voice. Barbara quite understood ;
and almost trembled in her understanding.

But for awhile, suspending her knitting-needles,
she tried to think calmly.

1 I don't know about this been' much like
heaven,' she said at last. i But, eh, it does
seem to me that people needn't make their
lives so much like — like the other place, as
they so often do ! It is a mystery.'
Ay, so it is — but they do do that.'
i It's the want of understanding,' Barbara
replied, looking into the fire thoughtfully.
It's nothing but that — they don't understand.
And how should they ? There's been
none to teach them — none that could see the
sort of teaching that poor people wanted.
They looked clown from above, and comprehended
nothing that they saw. They didn't
know why poor folk's houses was dirty, nor
why their bit of food was badly cooked ; " repulsive"
they would call it, an so it is to
them. But they couldn't trace all this to its
beginning — how should they? All they could
do was to blame, and blame, and never see to
the root of things. . . . But, eh, me! I've
hope enough ! I see signs on every side.
Why, the very books one reads gives one
hope 'at they're beginning to see — them that

ban help. Oh, yes, believe me, David, there's
hope on every side !'

1 Hope for some, maybe, not for me the
poor fellow replied, with sadness in his tone.
4 Hope for some. May God grant as you'll be
one o' them!'

Then he rose to go, standing for another
moment or two by the cheery fire, lingering
another by the dainty little cot where the
baby lay smiling on its soft white pillow.
It was hard to go, and Barbara, with compassionate
soul and warm heart, fully understood,
far too fully for her own peace of
mind.

1 Don't be downcast, David,' she said, speaking
kindly, sadly. ' There's many a one that
has more reason to be downcast than you have.'

Was she meaning herself ? Was that possible,
considering all that had happened oi
late ? David did not know, he felt bewildered,
and by-and-by he went away, leaving Barbara
Burdas far more unsettled, more saddened,
more perplexed than he himself was. After
a difficult quarter of an hour Barbara was
glad to hear the familiar click of the latch
that betokened the coming of old Hagar

Furniss. It was not only that she needed
distraction, some impelling instinct within her
required more than that.

Come in, Hagar, come to the fire Bab
said warmly. ' It's cold snuff outside ; but,
thank God, we're able to keep a fire going.'

The old woman began to shed quiet, feeble,
ineffectual tears, the tears of age, that have in
them no passion, no vehemence, nothing to
touch any heart not the most sensitive.

It's well for you, honey,' she said, sobbing
gently, speaking gently. ' It's well for you
'at les a bit o' coal at the loose end, an' a bite
bread i' the cupboard ! 'Isn't everybody can
say as much.'

Why, you don't mean to say 'at you re
wan tin', Hagar ?' Bab asked, surprised out of
her own troubles. But she did not express
her true feeling in words. In a very few
minutes there was a comfortable meal spread
on the table : tea, and toasted bread and butter,
and a boiled egg. Poor old Hagar began to
eat at once, in that painful, eager, tremulous
fashion that betrays long hunger, long faint -
ness, and need. Bab, her own troubles regaining
their dominance, only waited to seethe

old woman fairly comfortable, fairly satisfied
; then, obeying an instinct that was strong
within her, she rose to her feet and took out her
shawl from the oaken press at the farther end
of the room, and prepared to go out of doors.

You won't mind, Hagar — you won't mind
my going out for a while. I've not been out
since the early morning, and I'm keenly set
upon walking' over the fields for a bit. Can
you stay ?'

Can Ah stay, honey? . . . Why if Ah
nun tell the truth Ah were wanting' to ask ya
if Ah mud sleep here, on the mat by the fire?
Ah've seen neither bite nor sup to-day, nor a
bit o' coal — noa never the lowe of a coal fire
till Ah come in here to meet, an' Ah'd never
ha' done that but Ah were fairly starving' ! . . .
Let ma stay Bab, honey — let ma sleep hereon
the mat ! Ah'll do owt Ah can for ya i'
the morning'. Ah'd be right glad to do a bit
o' washin' — an' ya nun lev a lot o' that wiv a
young bairn to do for !'

Bab's only reply was to bring a spare rug
and a pillow from her own bed, and to make
the old woman quite cozy on the ' settle ' by
the fire.

vol. it. 33

1 Now lie there till I come back,' she said.
An' if ya hear any of the little ones stirring,
go an' see what they want. There's Ildy's
milk by the fire, an' none o' them else wants
nothing till the morning. Grandfather '11 go to
bed at eight o'clock. Don't wake him before !'

So Bab went out into the cool dark
December night. There was no moon — the
tiny silver crescent had gone down behind
the hills long before ; but the stars shone at
their best and brightest, and the world seemed
quieter, holier for their far-off shining ; and
the sea seemed subdued to a gentler movement
; the land was wrapt as in a peaceful
dream. Everywhere there was peace, save in
Barbara's own soul.

She had seemed to herself to be quiet
enough till David Andoe, with all his subdued
and unsubdued emotion, had awakened
the echoes of that love which she had hoped
was dying — yet, oh ! so hardly, so very hardly
in her own heart. Now she was all unstrung
again. The battle had to be fought once
more. Once morel How many times more ?
Was her life to be spent in this need of
love ?

All ! how many lives are sent — spent
exactly thus — in needing love, in craving
for it, in trying everywhere to search it out ?
And one shall find it, and presently lose it
again ; and another shall find it, and know
no good, no beauty in it. How few have
life and love, continuance of love — love remaining
always for blessing and upraising !

Was Barbara Burdas going to pass her life
thus — in hoping, in finding the end of hope ?
She thought of it in a vague passing way as
she flew onward through the lanes beyond
the Bight. There was a flagged pathway
through the fields, a descent into a fir copse,
a hill to be climbed on the other side ; and
that the top of the hill was a long three
miles from the ForeclifF, Barbara was very
well aware : yet she did not stop to think of
the distance; she was thinking of nothing
save a dream that was growing gradually in
her own brain — a vision of Yarburgh Rectory,
with the windows all alight with splendid
lamps and glowing fires. So Thomas
Furniss had described it to her once, when
some halibut had had to be taken to the
Rectory even while the guests were assembled

33—2

to eat it. Bab had never forgotten the description
of all that Thomas had seen that evening.


This was no dinner-party, not so far as
Barbara knew ; and certainly she did not
care. She had no desire, no dream, except that
but for a moment she might be near to Miss
Theyn. That was the one cry that she would
allow her heart to make. All the rest could
be stifled, it must be stifled ; but this might
be allowed, surely this ! And it would not
happen often, perhaps never again ; but surely
it might be permitted to her for once, just
for once, to walk outside the house where
Miss Theyn lived — perhaps even in the
garden, if the gates were not shut! And
she might see the window of Miss Theyn' s
room ; perhaps even know, from the shadow
on the blind, that she was dressing for dinner.
Bab had learnt much of late.

And all this detail of vision notwithstanding,
there was nothing small at the root of
Barbara's ideals. The one motive was the
drawing to be for a little while near to one
she loved.

Forgive her, if even in this mere drawing

there was yet a taint of materialism. It is
only the very finest natures of all who can
live in love, knowing that this love is growing,
strengthening, though actual nearness
be not attained for weeks, or months, nay,
even for years. The test of time is not only the
strongest, it is the most beautiful test of all.

This Barbara had yet to learn in all its
truth, all its fulness. She only knew to-night
that she was moved to pass over miles of
lane and field as if she were but passing over
a few yards. Her imagination saw only the
quaint gray old house upon the hill-top at
Market Yarburgh.

She stood upon the lawn at last. She had
found no bolts or bars to prevent her, and
she had made her way up the wide avenue
as one not dreaming of any right or title to
be there. Instantly she found her way to
the front of the house, not knowing it to bethe
front. There was only a light here and
there in the upper windows, but on the lower
story there was what seemed to Barbara a
very illumination from three of the windows,
each of which reached to the ground, and,
being uncurtained, disclosed the room within.

Bab stood staring awhile, not dazzled so
much by the light, not by the strange
wonderful beauty, as by the silence, the
emptiness of it all. She had not meant to
be curious, still less to be a spy upon aught
to be seen of the Rectory from without ; yet
she stood as if sell-bound dien once she
had discerned that in all this wide magnificence
of light, of colour, of beauty, there
was no human soul to enjoy. For a time
Barbara was bewildered.

At last, as she stood there she saw a door
open, far away at the end of the room, and
then two ladies entered slowly, gracefully,
richly dressed. They came in together, arm-in-arm
; the elder lady was bending down
toward the younger one, and as they reached
the glow of the fire the younger one lifted
her face for a kiss — a warm, lovingly-given
kiss. Then Bab did not know any more for
awhile ; but under the evergreen oak opposite
to the drawing-room window there was a
sound of sobbing, much subdued, yet painful
enough had any been there to listen. Barbara
was but too sure that no listener was there.
All her grief lay in her loneliness.

IF MUSIC BE THE FOOD OF LOVE, PLAY ON.'

1 Trust me, no mere skill of subtle power,
No mere practice of a dext'rous hand,
Will suffice without a hidden spirit,
That we may or may not understand.'

A. A. Procter.

Barbara's tears had been staved some time,
yet she knelt there under the shadow of the
tree, quiet, wondering at herself, yet thinking
mainly of others. It was a still, clear night;
the stars shone and glittered, the outlines of
the trees and of the house were distinct
against the deep indigo of the sky. For a
time hardly a sound broke the silence, save
the hooting of a melancholy owl in a tree at
the bottom of the garden. Presently even
this ceased, leaving a perfect stillness upon
the land everywhere. Not a twig was stirred,
not a blade of grass quivered, not a bird

moved in its nest with any audible movement.
It was a moment when silence itself is a
strong impression.

Then all at once that beautiful silence
was broken, but broken by a sound so thrilling,
so sweet, and to Barbara so strange,
chat she rose to her feet and stood with
clasped hands and uplifted face, as one entranced
might have done. What could it be,
this beautiful, this ineffably beautiful music ?

It may seem strange in these days that
Barbara should never have heard the tones
of a piano ; but so it was. And now that
this first experience should come under circumstances
so unusual was sufficient to stamp
the impression on her mind for ever. She
remained standing there for some time ; one
of the windows of the drawing-room was
open ; the light from the room was streaming
out over the terrace, over the shrubs,
over the leafless trees. And somehow the
music seemed part of the light, part of all
the beauty within and without. Bab had
no idea of what the music might be. It
seemed like a prayer, like pleading, and confessing,
and beseeching. And now there was

agitation in. the cry, an excitement that
seemed to stir the very air. It was as if she
were watching a shipwreck, listening to the
cry of drowning women, of children left to
perish. Half unconsciously she drew nearer
to the window ; she could see Miss Theyn
sitting by the piano, her white hands moving
up and down, now slowly and gracefully,
now in a quick, impassioned way. Only her
profile was visible from where Barbara stood,
and Bab could see that she looked pale and
sad — sad as the music she was making, which
now by degrees was growing sadder than
ever, more plaintive, more deeply charged
with pain and regret, with loss and trembling
and fear. Bab hardly knew that the tears
were running down her own face — tears of
sympathy, of longing ; and when at last a
sob broke from her, a passionate, overwhelming
sob that was half a cry, she was startled
at least as much as Miss Theyn was, whose
fingers stopped suddenly upon the keys in
the middle of a soft, sad passage in a Nocturne
by Chopin. Bab saw that she had heard, she
saw the uplifted, surprised face ; yet she could
not move ; she had no wish to move.

I Go on playing, Thorda dear,' said a sleepy
voice from among the sofa cushions behind
the screen.

I I will begin again presently, Aunt Diligent,'
Thorhilda replied calmly as she came
near to the window.

She was not altogether unalarmed, yet she
would not betray her alarm yet awhile. Opening
the window a little wider she looked out,
and saw the dark figure upon the terrace,
quite close.

Is it anyone I know ?' she asked in a
tone so as not to disturb her aunt.

And instantly the answer came :

Yes, Miss Theyn, it's me, Barbara Burdas.
Will you forgive me ? I never meant to
disturb you.'

Thorhilda, discerning the sound of tears in
Barbara's voice, would not ask her to enter
the drawing-room.

i Wait there awhile, will you ? I want
to see you,' she replied.

Then she turned and said a few words to
her aunt, who was too sleepy to take a very
lively interest in her niece's movements at
that moment.

A few seconds later Thorhilda was by
Barbara's side, holding her hand, entreating
her to come into the house, to her own room;
but Barbara was not easily persuaded to
this. At last, however, fearing that Miss
Theyn might take cold there on the terrace,
she yielded. It was a somewhat memorable
moment. For the first time Miss Theyn was
conscious of a feeling — was it gratitude for
devotion ? was it affection ? was it sympathy ?
She hardly knew herself; but the sense of
being drawn to Barbara was certainly there,
and the simple, truthful way in which she
said, ' I am glad to see you, Barbara,' as
she took the girl's hand again, and led her
to her own easy-chair by the fireside, was
sufficient to make poor Bab's heart rise and
swell for very gladness. No words could have
told it all.

I never thought of this — not for a moment,'
Bab said, in English almost as pure as Miss
Theyn's own.

The very accent was changed, softened,
purified ; now and then some inflection stirred
Thorhilda strangely, as if it were a disturbing
memory. At last she detected the cause of

this ; it was the echo of Damian Aldenmede's
way of speaking that she heard, and the detection
caused the hot colour to flow over her face
and neck in a way that was perplexing to Barbara.
Had she said aught that had been taken
amiss ?

It was a curious hour. Barbara felt the
warmth, the softness, the delicate beauty of
the room almost as she had felt the music.
Did people live thus always? Was this no
rare occasion? Was the house always thus
filled with light, and warmth, and loveliness
everywhere ? The walls of even the
landings and staircases seemed almost crowded
with pictures; bookcases filled with books
seemed to occupy every recess. Lamps hung
from the ceiling; white muslin and lace looped
back with rose-pink ribbons floated about
the windows of Miss Theyn's room; the toilet-table,
with all its belongings, seemed a very
miracle of artistic arrangement. Was it kept
so always? That was the mystery. A thing
might be done for once, but to keep up all
this refinement of surrounding seemed almost
impossible. Yet Bab did not consciously
dwell upon these ideas — they came later.

Now she was troubled, and glad, and half-ashamed,
and half-enchanted. Was it possible
that Miss Theyn was * glad to see
her ?'

I never thought of this,' she repeated,
sitting in Thorhilda's little chair, her rich
red-gold hair gleaming in the light of lamp
and fire, her deep sad blue eyes shining with
a new and happy light.

Miss Theyn, sitting opposite to her, watching
her wonderful beauty — really wonderful
now in the new softness, the new gentleness,
the new refinement that had come upon it
watching her thus, she could not but be
amazed ; and to listen to the words that
fell from the fisher-girl's lips was more
amazing still. ' Could love, mere love, Jdo
so much?'

1 Tell me what you did intend V Miss
Theyn said gently. ' I hope you intended
to come and see me. Long ago I asked
you.'

So you did ; but I never meant to come —
not then. No — nor not now in this way. . . .
How shall I tell you the truth ? I was tired,
tired and lonely, and old Hagar came in so

that I could leave the little ones, and all at
once I felt as if I must come here — as if
J must but just look at your house — the
home you lived in always, but just outside of
it ! I had no thought of the distance — none.
I wanted to come, to stand for a few minutes,
and then go back. But when I heard the
music I couldn't go — no, I could not. . . . Do
you know, I've never heard music like that
before — no, nor never dreamed of none like it.
Is it a piano?'

c Yes. . . . You have never heard one?'

No. . . . There's none on the ForeclifF.
And I've never been much in the way of
going' to the town. . . . I've heard the band,
though — them that has two fiddles and the
harp at Danesborough. That is beautiful —
but not — not like this. . . . How did you ever
learn to play so splendid V

I do not play well — not very well. I have
a friend — Miss Douglas — who can play much
better.'

Oh; is that so % Because I heard him say
Mr. Aldenmede, I mean — I heard him say
one day to the Canon — it was when he was
painting' on the Scar — I heard him say as he'd

never heard no plain' like yours — no, none
to come near it for — for expression — that was
what he said. I remember, because I wondered
so much what he meant. And the
Canon looked pleased, and said he thought so
too

Thorhilda knew only too well that the
crimson glow on her face was going on
deepening and deepening, that the agitation
of her heart and mind was visible on every
feature of her face, in every muscle of her
figure.

1 Have you seen Mr. Aldenmede lately ?' she
said, trying with all her effort to seem calm and
self-possessed.

1 Yes ; I saw him last night, and on Monday
night. I see him four nights of every week.
Isn't that kind of him, and good \ And, oh !
how could I ever tell you of all he does and
says by way of teaching me, and helping me ?
You couldn't think of the way he has of
reminding me when I don't sound the h's,
But that's nothing, he says, to dropping the
g's ; that hurts his ear ever so much worse,
and I'd never known that there was any
g's, not to notice them in speaking. But

every now and then I forget. Yet all these
are little things, not to be named by the side
of the greater ones. . . . Oh, how can I ever be
grateful enough to one that's done so much forme?


There was a moment's silence — a painful
silence on the one side. At last Miss Theyn
spoke, evidently with effort.

You speak of what Mr. Aldenmede has
done. Does that mean that his kindness to
you is at an end % . Is he leaving Ulvstan
Bight V

1 Not just yet — at least, I hope not. But
he has seemed very uncertain of late, as
if he didn't know what he was going to do.
. . And in other ways — I don't know
whether you have noticed it — in other ways
he seems changed. Don't you think so, Miss
Theyn ?'

Thorhilda sat looking into the fire, smoothing
out the hem of her cambric handkerchief,
seeming now as cold and calm as before she
had seemed agitated.

I have not seen Mr. Aldenmede, not for
some time past,' she said at length, speaking
with an almost exaggerate! quietness.

She could not say more to Barbara Burdas;
she could not say to her, ' I have not seen him
since my engagement. Day by day I have
expected to see him, to have to listen to
his congratulations, but day by clay he has
spared me ; and now, now I know what such
sparing means V

Thorhilda could say nothing of all this, nor
did she quite recognise that she was speaking
to one whose eyes had been opened by sorrow,
by pain — the pain of loving and losing. Barbara
was as silent, as thoughtful as Miss Theyn
herself for awhile.

I thought you had been seeing him often,'
she said at last. 'Perhaps it was that i I
hoped you had. I think that must have
been it ; that I hoped you'd seen him— seen
how much he'd changed of late. I never
knew no one turn so desperately sad all of
a sudden. It's ever so long now since he
touched his picture ; he seems to have no-heart
for painting' — titer e ! painting, I meant to
say.'

Do you always think of Mr. Aldenmede
when you speak?' Miss Theyn asked, with
a wan, faint smile breaking about her mouth.

vol. 11. 34

1 Yes . . . how can I help it, when nearly
every word has been caught up by him and set
right? . . . There's a few words yet that's fearfully
difficult. I think I'll never know how to
use them properly.'

The conversation seemed trifling enough,
but within the heart of each speaker some
painful emotion was being crushed and hidden.
Thorhilda knew more of Barbara's suffering
than Barbara dreamed of hers ; and now Miss
Theyn's sympathy was more open to detect the
depth of emotion and pain, her thought more
drawn to dwell upon it. Already she was
beginning to learn the lessons that sorrow
alone can teach.

There had been another long pause, during
which Miss Theyn's thought had travelled
rapidly, as thought always does travel when
it is charged by the finer emotions.

And now tell me of yourself, Barbara,' she
said, speaking gently, and bending forward in
the soft firelight till she seemed quite close to
the pale, tired girl beside her. ' Tell me
of yourself. You have told me nothing, and
Hartas has told me nothing. He said he
had nothing to tell — nothing but disappointment

and pain. . . . Can you not tell me how
it is?'

Barbara was silent for awhile; then she
lifted her wide blue eyes — eyes full of an
inexpressible astonishment, an unspeakable
sorrow. Did Miss Theyn yet understand no
more than this ?

In her perturbation, Barbara rose to her
feet, feeling as if she must be away from
this close and narrow atmosphere of misunderstanding.
She could not go over all
the old ground again now with Miss Theyn.
Miss Theyn should not have required it — so it
seemed.

1 I told your brother how it was,' she said,
with dignity. { He understands, if anyone
does. I am beginning to think no one can —
that no one ever does enter into a life not
their own; no, not even to a life lived closest
to theirs. But I must go home now, it's late
enough. . . .'

Stay a moment,' Miss Theyn interrupted,
leaving the room as she spoke.

Presently she came back with some food
on a small tray, which she carried herself,
and she insisted that Barbara should eat of it.

34—2

Then, to Bab's distress, she heard the
sound of carriage-wheels ; and Miss Theyn
went with her to the door ; and the Canon
was there; and he was glad — truly glad that
his niece should have been so thoughtful.

But while Barbara was being driven rapidly
down to the Forecliff, Thorhilda Theyn was
thinking more rapidly, more seriously than
she had ever thought in her life before.

Was it true, all that Barbara had said, or
rather intimated ; could it be really true that
another — one who had occupied so much of
her thought — was really caring, really sorrowing
for Iter, for her loss ! Alas, that it did
not seem impossible ! Alas, that she should
be drawn to dwell again and again upon the
sweetness of another's sorrow !

SO FAREWELL THOU WHOM I HAVE KNOWN TOO

LATE.'

If thus to look behind is all in, vain,
And all in vain to look to left or. right,
Why face we not our future once again,
Launching with hardier hearts across the main,

Straining dim eyes to catch the invisible sight,
And strong to bear ourselves in patient pain ?'

Christina Rossetti.

It was not much more than a week after
Barbara's visit to the Rectory. The afternoon
was cold and gray and wintry. The Canon
had gone to the Bight, saying that he had
some forty sick people on his list, and would
therefore probably not return till late. Mrs.
Godfrey, having a headache, had gone to lie
down, and her niece, being all alone, tried
various ways of passing the afternoon endurable.
She found, however, that she was
in no mood for practising, none for writing

letters, though there were many that she

o

ought to have written. Within the past three
days nearly twenty more wedding presents
had arrived — to Mrs. Godfrey's distress no
fewer than eight carriage-clocks among them.
In a humorous mood the Canon had wound
them all, set them going, placed them in a
row on the top of a cabinet in the drawing-room,
where they stood chiming — one sweeter
and more silvery in tone than another ; yet
Thorhilda could not bear to hear them, nor
did the idea of stopping them commend itself
to her taste. She remembered that one of
them had been sent by Lady Diana Hacldingley
her aunt's friend rather than her own — and
with the clock had come a long and kindly
letter. At the end there was a postscript,
meant mainly for Mrs. Godfrey.

Thorhilda had seated herself by the writing-table
in the drawing-room ; her intentions
were of the best. One after another the clocks
had chimed the hour of three. There was time
enough to write a dozen letters before the post
went out at five ; but, unfortunately, the topmost
letter was Lady Di Haddingley's, and the
postscript arrested all Miss Theyn's attention.

f I hear that an old acquaintance of ours —
Damian Aldenmede — is somewhere in your
neighbourhood,' Lady Di had written. ' A
friend — you will remember her — Lady Sarah
C banning, declares that he has fallen in love
with a fishwife, the mother of four or five
children. The Channing have been staying
for nearly a week at Danesborough, and Sarah
wrote to ask me for your address. . . . Do,
if you know anything of Mr. Aldenmede, tell
me about him. He was a man I always had
the highest admiration for, though I never felt
that I understood him, though, perhaps, that
was not his fault altogether. It is only like
that can understand like, and there is no likeness
between him and me. Perhaps I needn't
point that out if you have mel him. What a
fancy it is on his part to take to painting in
that vigorous way ! But then he never did
things by halves. Sarah says the intimacy
between him and the fisherman began by his
painting her, so I suppose she must be pretty.
All the same, I hope there's no truth in the
rumour. Sarah was always a terrible gossip.
Still there is no saying what a man like that
will do who has gone through such seas of

trouble. And I can easily imagine, now that
his first youth has passed, that it is very
probable that he may be caught by genuine
sympathy, whoever may offer it to him. All
the same, I shall be glad to know that I have
been misinformed.'

Mrs. Godfrey had read this aloud at breakfasting,
when the letters came in. Thorhilda
had listened with burning cheeks, not daring
to raise her eyes to her uncle's face. How
much he saw, how far he understood, who
shall say ? Perhaps he could hardly have said
all himself. It may be that his thought went
the deeper, that his prayer became the more
earnest. It is certain that the trifling episode
did not pass over him lightly.

Xow that Thorhilda was alone, that she
might read this gossiping postscript in silence,
it seemed to have a thousand meanings for her,
and some of them were meanings that she did
not dare to look into — not closely, not truly.
She could not answer Lady Di's letter now ;
and presently she became aware of the fact
that she could answer no other letter. Leaving
the room in a very tumult of perturbation, she
took the garden-hat that always hung in the

hall and went out of doors. It was cooler
there, and freer, and fresher. She seemed able
to think more truly, more clearly, out there
among the leafless trees, that hung sadly
and swayed softly, and lent an intensity
of impressiveness to the always impressive
scene.

For some time Miss Theyn walked there,
now quiet and hopeful, now roused and
excited, then suddenly depressed. She had
almost forgotten the peacefulness that had
been hers — not so long ago. For some time
she had walked up and down the garden paths,
passing from one mood to another ; then
at last the buff iron gates at the bottom
of the avenue swung open ; she could hear
the sharp metallic click of them, and instinctively
she recoiled. Percival Meredith
had been at the Rectory more than half of
the day before. Had he the deficient taste,
the imperfect tact, to come again to-day ?
Miss Theyn knew of no other visitor to be
expected.

Her surprise was at least as great as her
emotion was deep when she discovered 
coming up the avenue, slowly, and

with the gait and movement of a man to
whom all things were indifferent.

When he saw Miss Theyn he came forward
more quickly, raising his hat with an almost
eager courtesy. In his worst moments instinct
stood for something.

Yet the meeting was not an easy one — how
should it be ? Yet neither of them dreamed
how difficult the parting was to prove.

It was evident to Thorhilda from the first
that Damian Aldenmede was not in an ordinary
mood. His face was paler, thinner than
usual ; his gray eyes seemed more deeply
set; the lines about his mouth were sterner,
colder.

1 Is Canon Godfrey at home V he asked,
without much appearance of interest in the
answer. ' I will not disturb him for hon£.
I have merely called to say "good-bye."

Thorhilda understood all, the coldness, the
depth of intensity behind this stiffness and
rigidity of manner.

I am sorry,' she replied, using all effort to
seem calm, and succeeding beyond her own
hope. ' I am sorry, but my uncle is not
at home. He will regret much when he

knows that he has missed you. . . . Do you
leave Ulvstan soon ?'

1 I go tomorrow.'

So early !' Thorhilda exclaimed, still endeavouring
to keep her voice free from tremor,
her manner from all agitation. l Is it sudden
your determination — or have you been
thinking of it for some time ?'

I decided last evening

Oh ! . . . Will you come into the drawing-room
? My aunt is not quite well, but if
I tell her that it is a farewell visit, I am sure
she will wish to see you

Thank you ; I would not disturb her on
any account. Please give her my kind
regards, and tell her of my regret. I should
have been glad to see her

These stiff civilities should have ended the
interview ; but somehow they did not. 
did not turn away ; Damian did not
offer his hand. For a strange moment or two
they stood there by the top of the avenue, not
looking at each other, not speaking; hardly
breathing.

Thorhilda broke the silence, saying in tones
that betrayed the effort she used :

1 Perhaps your absence may not be for long.
. . You are not leaving England ?'

I leave England for Italy to-morrow night.
. . "When I return, or indeed whether or
no I return at all, must remain with the
future.'

Again for awhile there was silence ; a silence
that would have been the end of the meeting
if Damian had not raised his eyes to the
beautiful face before him, discerning there
much of the hidden pain, the hidden suffering.
And as he looked he remembered the words
that Barbara Burdas had said to him only the
evening before, betraying much more than she
knew that she betrayed.

She's none happy,' Bab had said, ' not
happy as she ought to be. Her eyes are full
of dread and fear, as if she didn't dare look
into the future. And all about her mouth
there's the strangest trembling at times, just
as if she'd be glad to lay down all her life, all
her hope, at somebody's feet, and die there.
. . Oh, don't talk to me about her no more ;
she's none happy !'

It was just as Barbara had said in her expressive
way. This was just the look he saw

on the face of the woman he loved, and had
lost.

No, he could not turn away ; not yet, not
thus. The past days and nights of suffering
seemed to be pouring all their painful energy
into the present moment. Strong man though
he was, his heart was beating wildly, his brain
throbbing fiercely. Was it over — was it possible
that it could be over, all the new sweet
promise that had seemed to be sent as a kind
of aftermath ; a blessing upon the later life of
one whose earlier years had been all unblessed
save for the benediction of sorrow ? Was it
not rather a dream, a delusion, all that he
had heard of her engagement, her intended
marriage ? Had he indeed heard of these
things from any authentic source at all ?
The very question seemed perplexing, almost
stupefying.

It was the first word, the first question,
that was difficult.

1 Is it true — is it all quite true?' he said,
speaking with such evident effort, taking a
tone so different to any he had used to her
before that she could not but understand.

She endeavoured to reply quietly ; and

even in this painful moment the extreme
graciousness of her manner, the unaffected
truth of her soul, struck him afresh with
fresh pain.

You are speaking of my engagement?' she
said, raising her grave, gray eyes with all their
burden of sadness to his. There was no
pretence, no subterfuge.

4 Yes,' was the brief reply.

It is true.'

4 You are going to marry Mr. Meredith?'

Yes. . .-. I have promised to do so.'

There was no mistaking her tone — the
sadness of it, the weariness. He understood
as well as if she had knelt at his feet and
there poured out all the tale of her confession.


For awhile there was silence. Damian
Aldenmede would not wrong himself, his
own soul, by so much as one word of congratulation,
or anything that could be taken
for such. Thorhilda understood. She understood
also that no small or mean jealousy
was at the root of his silence, his reticence.


A man like that to be jealous of such a

one as Percival Meredith! The mere irony
of her own soul as the idea crossed her brain
showed her more than she had seen before.
Never till now had the wide disparity between
the two men been so apparent to her. The
hour was full of disclosures.

1 And it is done /' she said to herself, an
aura passing over her like to that which
passes over a human being when he is told
that he must presently die from some secret
ailment he had barely suspected. i It is done :
it cannot be undone.'

And Damian Aldenmede also understood.

The pallid lips and cheeks, the pleading
look about the wild, sad eyes, the new gentleness
where all had been gentle before — all
these things told him that she was conscious
of mistake, of error.

Now he knew, as he had never dreamed
to know, that he himself was not guiltless
of her misery.

1 did it for the best — altogether for the
best he said to himself as he stood there,
staring intently into the depths of a white-edged
holly tree that stood upon the lawn,
green, bright, glossy in its wintry beauty.

Sparrows were darting in and out, a bold
blackbird peered from an upper bough, starlings
were whirring all about, from the
garden-beds to the unused chimneys.

I did it all for the best. . . . But I did
wrong — a wrong I cannot undo. No ; not by
so much as a word, a look, may I now, or
ever, attempt any undoing. It is with the
smallest error as with the deepest sin — it
may be repented of, it may be condoned, it
may be forgiven — forgiven by God and by
man — it cannot be undone. And it is no
alleviation of my suffering to know that I do
not suffer alone — nay, it is an aggravation
rather. . . . What can I hope — that she will
forget, that she will be happy?

1 Happy ! This woman happy with a manlike
Percival Meredith ! Good heavens ! What
must her ignorance, her innocence be, since
she can even have dreamt of it? And they,
her guardians, her natural protectors — they
must be as ignorant of evil as herself, of
all that betrays evil, or they could never
have done what I am persuaded they must
have done — influenced her toward this marriage.'


They were sauntering about now, from
path to path, silently, or all but silently. The
remark as to the beauty of this evergreen,
the failure of that, was not conversation ;
something had to be said by way of escape
from the awkwardness of perfect silence.

More than once a time of perfect silence
came. They were passing quite close by the
drawing-room windows at one such moment.
Two of the windows were open wide ; a
sudden simultaneous sound of chiming came
with a silvery, musical burst. At the first
moment Damian started, fancying he heard
some distant peal of bells ; but when peal
followed peal, he turned to Thorhilda with
a question on his every feature. To his
surprise, she was not only blushing with a
deep scarlet blush, but her eyes were suffused
with tears that insisted upon falling. She
could not hide them ; she could not explain
them.

I must say good-bye,' she said, sobbing
painfully, and holding out a tremulous hand.
4 Do not come in! I will tell Aunt Milicent —
I will say all you could wish. . . . Good-bye —
and — and my best wishes.'

vol. 11. 35

She was still weeping, weeping bitterly,
unrestrainedly ; and when Mr. Aldenuiede
took her hand in his, and held it warmly,
she let it rest there for a moment or two.
Nature had her way for that brief while.

It seemed very brief to Damian Alden-mede.
All at once some secret spring of
strength gave Miss Theyn power to recover
herself for the moment. Recollection, sudden
shame — but a foretaste of that shame that was
to overpower her afterward — these and other
things became momentarily helpful.

Say good-bye,' she urged. ' If you cannot
congratulate me, you can at least wish me
well — you can at least hope for me that when
we meet again I shall be — be somewhat
stronger ; that I shall disgrace the dignity
of my womanhood less than I have done
to-day.'

Mr. Aldenmede replied after a pause.

I know what you are anticipating,' he said
kindly ; ' you can see already the hours of
anguish, of self-reproach, that will follow
this brief moment of weakness. I, too,
know something of such hours. Every
thinking human being has to know them,

to suffer from them. It is only the utterly
callous who pass through life able to put
aside every pang that comes from the consciousness
of error, of mistake. . But, believe
me, all this will pass — it may be late — I
fear it will— yet eventually it will pass, and
leave you wondering — not that you were
moved so deeply, but that you should have
been moved at all !'

1 Is that how the future seems to you ?'

'It is how I should wish it to appear in
your sight.'

Thorhilda bowed her head meekly, sadly,
heavily. Life seemed over — all save endurance
of living.

It was then, in that moment, that there
flashed across her mind the thought of one
who, thousands of years before, had sold his
birthright ; and a few seconds later the
words of the truest of our Christian poets
passed across her thought :

We barter life for pottage, sell true bliss

For wealth or power, for pleasure or renown ;
Thus, Esau-like, our Father's blessing miss,
Then wash with fruitless tears our faded crown.

Could it be possible that she had done

35—2

this — bartered her life, her soul, at four-ancU
twenty years of age ? And for what ? ' Good
God ! for what f she asked in all reverence, as
she stood there.

1 If I had the strength of soul, the daring
of spirit, I would at this moment tell all to
Damian Aldenmede,' she continued in the
depth of her thought. * But I have not — how
should I have, with the attention of a very
world of people fixed upon my marriage — my
marriage to Percival Meredith, and that within
a month? How could I dare to speak out all
that is in me ?'

Thought passes swiftly. Only a few
seconds had passed since Damian spoke his
last kindly word. He was still standing
before her, pale, quiet, self-repressed.

1 suppose we must part,' he said at last,
looking into her eyes once more.

But we shall meet again,' Thorhilda said,
trying to smile, but failing rather miserably.
There was something in her face, her expression,
that Damian Aldenmede could not bear
to see just then.

We may meet again, we may not ; at any
rate, we must part now,' he said, raising his

hat and turning away. ' God bless you V was
the last word that Miss Theyn heard from
beyond the white-edged holly tree. Farther
off it was repeated more fervently: ' May God
bless you !'

* # * *

The marriage-day was fixed ; it was to be
on Tuesday, January 11th.

That Christmas was naturally a busy time.
1 Busy, and oh, so happy up at the Rectory !'
Miss Douglas declared to friends who were not
so fortunate as to be able to come and go at
the Rectory when they chose. Miss Douglas
was quite able to appreciate her privileges, and
all appertaining to them. Moreover, whatever
her lips might say, her eyes were not
blinded.

Yes ; certainly it was a busy time. Postmen
and railway porters thronged the way
at times ; so many letters came, so many
parcels, that more tables had to be brought
down from the upper rooms to hold the still
accumulating presents.

Thorhilda did not dare to say that each
one was an added pang ; how could she, when
almost every day Mrs. Meredith came with

her son, each of them kissing the blushing,
shrinking bride-elect on either cheek, each of
them glad for the many tokens that betrayed
such a deep and widespread regard ?

Only one eye saw the true cause of the
shrinking ; only one heart understood the
meaning of the hot, painful blush. Only
one man, comprehending all, feared, and
suffered, and prayed in silence.

And his prayer was answered ; but not ashe
had dreamt and thought it might be.

In this very answer there was to be such a
sting, such an agony, as Canon Godfrey had
never in his life known.

'unseen fingers on the wall.

1 With aching hands and bleeding feet
We dig and heap, lay stone on stone,
We bear the burden and the heat
Of the long day, and wish 'twere done.
Not till the hours of light return,
All we have built do we discern

Matthew Arnold.

Though the times were bad, ' very bad indeed,'
the fisher-folk of Ulvstan Bight said,
yet some curious and not infrequent alleviations
came in their way about Christmas-time.
It was only natural that the Canon should
interest himself largely in the matters of soup
and Christmas beef, of blankets and coals ; it
was only to be expected that Mrs. Godfrey
and her niece should drive down to the Fore-cliff
almost every day with flannel petticoats,
with knitted stockings — there were at least
some half-dozen old women in the neighbourhood

who were kept in full work from January
to December of each year executing Mrs.
Godfrey's orders for stockings and socks.
And then, too, there were the little frocks,
made of such ill-smelling brown winsey that
the carriage window had to be kept open.

An hour in the sea-breeze of the Bight
will blow all that away Mrs. Godfrey said,
noticing her niece's absolute faintness and pallor;
and then, by way of diversion, drawing her attention
to the seemliness of the little garments,
which had most of them been made by a
clever, tiny woman, whom nobody ever called
a ' dwarf because of her perfect proportion.

Miss Firkin had done her best for the
children this cold Christmas-time. The little
frocks were bright with scarlet braid and
blue ; the little jackets were warm with red
flannel linings ; the caps, the comforters, the
muffatees, the mittens, the gloves, ah, how
bright they all looked ! and what pleasure
they gave !

The Canon's wife and his niece, driving
back to Yarburgh Rectory, the carriage fulfilled
with empty baskets and bags, should
hardly have been silent or depressed.

There was no mystery about all this. But
when some large packing-cases began to arrive
at Ulvstan, for the most part addressed on the
outside to Mr. David Andoe, and found to
contain many smaller packages otherwise addressed
within ; a sense of wonder was
developed very rapidly ; this largely because,
so far, there was no clue to the sender.

Ann Stamper, the landlady of the inn, a
poor, ailing, worn-out old woman, who had
a little packing-case of comforts especially
directed to her, declared that nobody could
have sent it save Lord Hermeston, of Hermes-ton
Peel, who had taken shelter in her house
one showery day, and had been so affable, so
simple, as to win all the old woman's warmest
regard for him. But Ann Stamper was not
the only one to whom the anonymous presents
gave cause for mistake.

Old Hagar Furniss found a waterproof
basket at her door one morning, containing
tea, and biscuits, and tinned meats of various
kinds, with a big round plum-cake of such
quality that Hagar declared, with tears in her
eyes, that no bride-cake could ever have surpassed
it. But this was not all : warm scarlet

flannel was there in sufficient quantity to last
the old woman her lifetime, with a large
eider-clown counterpane, a thick rug for her
fireside, some soft, warm brown woollen serge
for a gown, and finally such a big plaided
woollen shawl that the poor old creature declared
she could never know what it was to
be cold any more.

Don't tell me,' the old fishwife said, her
head trembling more than usual in the depth
of this new emotion. ' Don't tell me. It's
him — it's the Rector. Don't say it isn't — for
there's nobody else, nobody living, as 'ud
know so exactly what an old woman like me
'ud want an' crave for, an' sit an' dream of
when the fire's dying out of a night, an' ya
aren't put a bit more coal on to keep ya fra
starving' for the dread o' the next night seeing
ye without an ounce o' coal i' the house ! . . .
No, don't tell me ; 'twas him, an' nobody else.
An' may the good God reward him, for I
can't ; no, I can't so much as say what it all
means to me, leave alone thanking' him. . . .
Mebbe God '11 thank him some day. There's
something like that i' St. Martha'. It's the
Last Day, the Judgment Daily, an' the King

says: " Cause ya did unto them," meaning'
the poor, such as me, " Ah reckon Ah'll take
it as if yard done it unto Me Myself." '

Here and there, all over the Bight, there
were these pleasant touches of mystery ; and
yet, helpful as they were, they could not
altogether put a stop to the growing hardness
of things — the increasing anxiety. Even in
such homes as that of old Ephraim Burdas,
that Christmas was a time of dread, of strain,
of hand-to-hand fight with each sixpence
that had to be sent out for food or \ fire
eldon.'

As a matter of course, Barbara had not
been forgotten. Miss Theyn herself had comedown
one day with a closely-packed bag,
which had seemed to the children standing
round as if it were never going to be emptied.
Toys were there ; chocolate (less tempting,
because less known), sweets, paper bags full
of toffee — made in the Rectory kitchen ; and
then below came the warm, comfortable little
articles of dress. But this was not all. Outside
a hamper had been left, which Woodward
had been told to unfasten, and then to leave
it standing under the little porch. Bab saw

it there when she went to the door with Miss
Theyn.

She had not seen it at the first moment.
Ailsie had called her elder sister back entreat -
ingle, only to whisper, in a curiously agitated
way for so mere a child :

'Ask her to come again, Barbie, will you?
Do ask her to come again ! . . . It's not the
goodies. . . . Ah can't eat 'em; Stevie can —
an' Zeb, an' Jack — but Ah non care for
'em. But will you ask her to come again ?
. . She smiles so — doesn't she, Barbie? . . .
An' she looks at ya so ! An' her bonny white
hands, and the way she has o' touching things,
oh, Ah do like to see her ! Ask her to come
again, Barbie!'

But whilst Barbara was putting the child's
request into words, her eye fell upon the
hamper, as Miss Theyn saw, enabling her to
speak of it in a careless, incidental way.

That is something from the Rectory,' she
said. ' I believe it is my aunt's present to
your grandfather.'

But Thorhilda perceived the momentary
flush of pain that passed over the girl's face.
Barbara had always been so equal to the household

needs, that she could not bear that the
truth should be suspected now; nor was it, —
no, nor anything near the truth.

If anyone had approximate dreams, it must
have been the sender of the mysterious parcel
that Bab found on the doorstep one morning
in Christmas-week — not that it was mysterious
to her ; and all at once she saw to the bottom
of the other mysteries that were happening all
about.

Yet, if he chose to do good by stealth, he
should not be put to the blush of finding it
fame by any word of hers. Doubtless Mr.
Aldenmede had sufficient reasons for wishing
to seem a comparatively poor man; but no
man so poor as he chose to appear to be could
afford to scatter gifts over a whole village in
this prodigal way.

No ; I'll not speak of it — not even to her, 1
Barbara said, with tears in her eyes, as she
stood contemplating the dozen new and
tempting books that had been packed so
carefully at the bottom of the case, and the
pile of bright scarlet merino, evidently meant
for Ailsie.

How well she remembered his saying that

he always felt grateful to any child who came
tripping across his out-door vision in a scarlet
frock or a scarlet cloak! Ailsie should have
both before he came again.

Then thought itself seemed to pause.
Would Mr. Aldenmede ever come to Ulvstan
Bight any more ? With a sigh, Bab admitted
to herself that it seemed impossible he
should.

He had not been happy for a long time
before he went away — not even as happy, as
equable as when he first came — and he had
seemed a man of sufficiently saddened soul
then. And Barbara knew all about the cause
of his more recent unhappiness — how could
she help but know ?

And each time she saw Miss Theyn she saw
more certainly than before that happiness was
not there — not the happiness that should have
been at such a time as this.

Barbara saw no future ; how should she ?

I suppose they were engaged before — Mr.
Meredith and her. And then Mr. Aldenmede
came, and she saw the difference — ay, me!
how could she help ? Why, yon man at
Ormston minds me of a peacock most of all;

he shines so, and he struts so, with his beautiful]
white shirt front standing out in a bow
before him — and him turning round in that
slow, stiff way, as if he'd got to move
altogether or not at all ; eh me, how could one
like her ever demean herself to one like him?
an' his hair turning gray ; and a big bald
patch on the top of his crown already ! Eh,
how could she V

But Barbara was just, and had to remember
that Barman Aldenmede's hair had at least a
grayer look than Mr. Meredith's had.

He looks as old, Mr. Aldenmede does,
mebbe older — but it's none the same sort of
aging, not at all. Why, when he laughs, he
laughs like a bov — an' the other smiles as if
he were ashamed o' demeaning himself so far.'

Was it strange that just now Barbara
Burdas should be drawn to dwell upon Miss
Theyn so much? Does it not often happen,
all unknowingly, all unconsciously, that our
thoughts, our very dreams, are drawn to those
(near to us either by sympathy, or by relationship)
who are passing through crises of which
we are altogether unaware, or have but the
merest suspicion?

This fisher-girl of the Forecliff could really
know nothing of the strife that was deepening
day by day in the soul of Thorhilda
Theyn.

Yet I cannot forget her ; no, not for an
hour ! It is strange how I am always finding
myself thinking of her! I wonder has she
got any thought of me?'

Inevitably Miss Theyn had thought of
Barbara Burdas, ' many a time and oft How
should it not be so ?

1 She loves Hartas — I know she does. I
believe his love is precious to her ; yet she will
not marry him, lest she should even seem,
to be self-seeking — lest she should even seem
to desire to raise herself to a different social
level; to desire to find ease, and rest, and
comfort, and what would perhaps even appear
to her as luxury! Barbara Burdas, fisher-girl
as she is, will not even have it thought that
she could sell her soul for a mess of pottage.
And I . I . ? Good God ! what have I
done ?'

There was no irreverence in Miss Theyn's
cry. She covered her face with her hands,
and knelt by her bed in all the agony of

knowledge of error and mistake — irrevocable
mistake.

Every swiftly-passing day and hour increased
the irrevocableness. Once there had
been a chance. Until others knew, and
added the pressure of their knowledge, their
congratulations, there had surely been a way
of escape. Now there was none ; and day by
day the yearning grew — the longing to escape
by any means. With each fresh wedding
present, each new congratulation, each allusion
to the coming event, she felt afresh the
weight, the dread, it might almost be said the
repulsion.

It could not be that things should be thus
with his niece and Canon Godfrey have no
knowledge. It seemed to him now that he
had had suspicion from the first.

He could not ask her of her own feeling.
It is strange how sometimes the fact of a deep
affection, with all the sympathy, all the nearness
that such affection means, will yet act asa
barrier between sensitive souls. There are
things that it is easier to say to a comparative
stranger than to a mother reverenced and
beloved.

vol. 11. 3G

Canon Godfrey's eyes once fairly opened,
he began to see much that lie had been blind
to before ; and for a brief time he withdrew
himself, and lived as much apart from his
household as was possible to him. He had a
great determination to make.

At last, one Wednesday afternoon — it was
the Wednesday in the week before the
marriage, which was to take place on the
Tuesday following — he asked his niece to go
with him for a drive. It was a mild day for
January. A gray mist was on all the land,
rolling over the brown barren fields, over
the leafless hedges, over the sparsely-scattered
trees.

Adhere would you like to go?' the Canon
said, taking his seat beside her in the open

carriage.

4 Oh, to the Grange!' Thorhilda replied.
Aunt Averil isn't well, and Rhoda has a
cold. We must go and see after them.'

This was not what the Canon had wished,
but he yielded ; and his yielding was a little
fatal from his own point of view. He had
no chance of driving along the moorland
road above Ormston Magna, of looking down

upon the house, the gardens, the wide lawns,
the small but beautiful park, of leading the
conversation from these to their owner, and
from their owner to the future — his and hers.
If the Canon had but known how his niece
was desiring it! How she was yearning for
help, for strength, for light! That was the
worst — all seemed so dark now, so hopeless.

The visit to the Grange was pleasant than
usual. Miss Averil Chalgrove was in her own
room, and Thorhilda went up to see her. It
was the one pretty room in the house — the
only one where there was any true feminine
daintiness ; and Thorhilda was glad to see
even that.

I wonder Rhoda is not influenced by your
pretty room, Aunt Averil,' she said, glancing
at the elegantly-decorated toilet - table, the
silver-mounted pots and bottles, the ivory-backed
brushes, the mother-o'-pearl glove-boxes,
etc., etc.

It was not easy to see them all, the light
being so exceedingly dim. Sunny as the
afternoon was, the rose-red blinds were half-drawn
; the lace curtains closed utterly. It
was a most becoming light, however, as Miss

36—2

Chalgrove knew. She was lying upon a sofa,
with a pale-blue dressing-gown, elaborately
trimmed with lace and ribbon, robing her
from head to foot. A tiny table, with an
exquisite little set of cups and saucers, was
by her side ; and a vase with the loveliest
white and yellow roses in it. Roses ! yes, and
even orange-blossom, as Miss Theyn perceived
to her agitation.

The room is moderately pretty,' Miss
Chalgrove admitted with a sigh ; ' but you
know how it comes to be so. Half my small
possessions, nay, far more than half, are
birthday or Christina presents from the
Haddingleys. They never forget me, I hear
they have not forgotten you. What have they
sent you, Thorhilda?'

Don't speak of wedding presents, Aunt
Averil, dort; I can't bear it !' the girl exclaimed
passionately. ' I came here this afternoon
to be free from it all for a while. . . .
Please. talk of something else — anything. What
is Hartas doing ?'

Miss Chalgrove was so overcome by her
niece's most unusual and most unexpected
vehemence that she had to use both vinaigrette

and fan before she could recover strength
enough to reply.

1 You were always a strange girl she said
at last in faint tones. ' I often think that you
have had just a little too much prosperity,
that life has come to you just a little too
easily. . . . Ah me! if — if only some others
might taste of such happiness as yours!'

Thorhilda was silent for a moment. Miss
Chalgrove could not see in that dim rose-coloured
light how pale, how rigid her niece
had grown. But presently she felt her hand
grasped warmly in a younger and stronger
one, yet the grasp was tremulous.

c Don't speak to me of happiness just now,
Aunt Averil ; do not speak to me of myself
at all. Tell me how things are going on
here. Uncle Hugh fancied there was improvement.'


1 Improvement, my dear ! If you said revolution
you would almost be within the mark.
Why, only to-day your father and Hartas
have gone to Danesborough, to a sale of cattle
and farming things. They have gone together,
and for business purposes. Do you know
all that that means? I suppose you do not,'

Miss Chalgrove concluded, with tears in her
eyes.

6 And things are really going better?'
4 They are promising to go better ; that
is everything. Hartas is just one of those
people who can do nothing by halves ; yet
I never thought he had in him such a power
of work, and of ability to organize work, ashe
has displayed of late. Of course, I only
hear of it all through your father and Rhoda ;
but they seem as if they could not make
enough of him now. . It is very strange !
Think of a crisis in a man's life making such a
change !'

But remember what a crisis it was !'
c I dare not remember ; I cannot, even yet.
. . Why, for nights and nights afterward I
awoke screaming, and Rhoda had to come and
sit beside me for hours together. Once your
father came ; and immediately, as soon as he
saw me, he sent Burton off for Dr. Douglas.
And all that came of my suffering because of
his suffering — Hartas' s. I had dwelt upon it
so, imagined it all so vividly in my own
brain, that I never slept without being instantly
introduced to scenes of sea-suffering.

It was terrible, oh ! it was very terrible ;
but the curious part of it is that ever since
that time Hartas has been so much more tome
than he was before. I am not myself
to-day, because he is not here. I like to
know that he is not far away from the
Grange ; I like him to come to my room
and sit for an hour or two at a time; and
you would not wonder if you saw him hereby
my fireside in the twilight. There is such
a change ! It is not only that he looks paler,
thinner, more refined, that he has gentler
ways, quieter manners ; there is something
beyond all that.'

Thorhilda mused for awhile, then she said :
Don't you think that "something" maybe
love, Aunt Averil?'

Miss Chalgrove knew what Thorhilda was
meaning ; but she did not reply in her usual
light and crude manner. Even to Miss Chalk
there was a change in the atmosphere —
a change for the better ; how much for the
better who shall say ?

i A little leaven leavened the whole
I know of what, or rather of whom you
are thinking,' Miss Chalgrove said at last,

evidently speaking with some difficulty, and
then pausing for a considerable time.

At last, roused by the subject, she spoke
with some vehemence.

It pained me terribly at first,' Miss Chalk
said. ' How should it not pain me, to
think of my nephew, my only nephew, marrying
a fisher-girl, a bait-gatherer ! The mere
idea was repulsive in the extreme.'

Have you ever seen Barbara Burdas ?'

Xo ; nor do I wish to see her. . I am
told you have quite taken what people call a
fancy " to her.'

That is hardly correct. I have been slow,
extremely slow, to perceive that she is one of
the best, one of the purest, one of the most
high-minded women it has ever been my
privilege to meet.'

Really ! . . . And very pretty, I suppose ?'

1 Not pretty at all ; at any rate not now.
Six months ago she had a sort of pink-andrea
freshness, and certainly her bright blue
eyes were very attractive. All that has gone.
She is thinner, and she looks faded ; and the
light has gone from her eyes, except just when
some emotion brings it back for a moment. . . .

Xo ; of mere prettiness Barbara has little left,
I am sorry enough to say it.'

1 But all the while you are meaning that
she has some stronger and deeper attraction V

1 Yes ; that is just what I am thinking,
but I cannot explain it. . . . Anyhow, I do
not now wonder that one like Hartas should
have been drawn to her. . I have only
seen it lately, but she is his superior in every
way !'

In every way ? But that is exaggeration
surely ! Think of it, Thorda dear !'

I have thought of it often. The girl has
naturally the " air " of her class. For all her
fine independence of spirit, she is yet wanting
in self-sufficiency, especially when anyone is
present that she cares for ; but of this, of all
this, one thinks nothing in her presence.
She stands there, dignified with a certain
moral dignity — my uncle Hugh would say
spiritual — and one is even conscious of a kind
of inferiority, as if she were the superior. It
is difficult to explain how, on the one hand,
she seems wanting — just a little ; how, on the
other, she surprises you with an almost overpowering
sort of supremacy. You would

never dare to utter a silly joke if Barbara
Burdas were within hearing.'

I don't know that I am given to uttering
silly jokes " under any circumstances,' Miss
Chalgrove said, evidently, with her usual
amusing egotism, having taken part of Miss
Theyn's remark in a personal way. * Yet
what you say interests me. I do not doubt
but that it is partly her influence that has
wrought such a change in Hartas. And what
a change it is ! He is not the same in any
sense of the word. From being the most
absolute idler on the face of the earth, he has
become one of the most hard-working men I
have ever known. And he must have some
strong purpose in his brain to induce him to
go on working thus. I cannot tell what it is.
He has said that he has no hope of inducing
the girl to change her mind. One" cannot but
be glad, very glad ; yet the matter is not
without interest.'

No, it is not without interest,' Thorhilda
replied, with a certain dreaminess of manner
which altogether belied the emotion in her
heart.

It seemed as if everywhere the strong, pure

influence of a pure love was having a good
effect upon others — upon all whom it touched
save herself. And what was it meaning to
her ? She asked the question with apparent
sincerity. Yet she dared not look upon the
answer.

1 1 must make answer sometime,' she said,
as they went homeward, her uncle silent,
absorbed by her side.

He, too, had seen much in the changes that
were happening to make him thoughtful, yet
far from hopeful. Nay, it almost seemed as
if his brightest outlook were here. The few
moments that Thorhilda had passed upstairs
with her valetudinarian aunt the Canon had
spent with Rhoda ; and he could not but
discern the change that had passed over the
household. It was visible in the aspect of the
room, in Rhoda's look and manner, and speech
and appearance.

Sweet are the uses of adversity,
Which like the toad, ugly and venomous,
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head.'

Such were the words that struck Canon
Godfrey as he went home to his comfortable-seeming
Rectory at Yarburgh ; a home that

seemed to outsiders as if no cloud might ever
overshadow it, no thorn come near any rose
within its walls.

All the way the Canon was silent ; all the
way his niece was wondering if she might
make one more effort, one more attempt to
confess her mistake, her misery, her dread.
Then she remembered that it was Wednesday.

1 Uncle Hugh will be thinking over his
lecture for this evening,' she said to herself.
That is why he is so silent, so absorbed. I
must not disturb him.'

SOME WORDS FROM A WEDNESDAY EVENING
LECTURE.

For this I say is death, and the sole death,
When a man's loss comes to him from his gain.'

Robert Browning.

It was not by any means a studied informality
that marked the Wednesday evening services
at St. Margaret's, yet the Canon had, with
some care, decided upon the lines he wished
to occupy.

This pre-consideration notwithstanding, he
found that experience considerably modified
the rules he had laid down. To feel himself
face to face with some dozen fishermen and
their wives in the dim light of the nave of
the old church on a winter's evening was a
moment sufficiently realistic to call forth new-effort,
new sensitiveness to the need of effort.
In such hours as these Canon Godfrey felt

always that the uttermost was demanded of
him — the very best that he was prepared to give.

And, conscientious as he was, often he
knew that his preparation had not enabled
him to meet the moment and its demand.
Again and again he had to kneel at night,
crying, ' My God, my God, why hast Thou
forsaken me ?'

So it is that the saints of God are trained
to their saintliness by the sense of failure, of
inadequacy. It is not the man who makes the
fair and truthful statement :

Lo these many years do I serve Thee,
neither transgressed I at any time Thy commandments.'


It is not this man whose career is held out
for the encouragement of erring humanity.
It is his younger brother, who could only
cry, in the agony of conscious abasement :

'Father, I have sinned against Heaven,
and before Thee ;

1 And am no more worthy to be called Thy
son : make me as one of Thy hired servants !'

It is this younger son who draws our
sympathy, who claims our compassion ; it is
here that we feel a true like-mind illness. In

the worst moments we have known, has not
this same Prodigal Son seemed also as a
friend and a brother ?

On this particular winter's night — it was
the fifth of January — Mr. Egerton had taken
the service, the Canon remaining in the vestry
till the end of it ; an altogether unprecedented
proceeding on his part.

It was a dull, chill night ; and certainly not
twenty people were scattered about in the
gloom. The Canon came down the chancel
steps slowly, looked about him calmly, sadly,
then bowed his head in prayer for a moment
or two upon the reading-desk, from whence he
always gave his homely lecture. It was
nearer to the people than the pulpit was ; and
the position seemed to have less of formality
about it.

The church was large for the place — large,
and old, and gray, and notwithstanding
restoration, somewhat dismal. Canon Godfrey
tried always to refrain from seeing who
might be present before him, and who absent.
But to-night almost every face seemed to be
impressed upon his vision in an instant.

Each old fisherman he knew, each old or

young fishwife — there might be ten of them
altogether. Amongst them was the uplifted,
appealing face of Barbara Burdas. And a
little nearer to him — only a little, he had
caught sight of the face of his niece, .


He had not been sure as to her presence
beforehand ; he had hoped for it ; he had let
drop a word as to his hope. And she was here.

All alone she sat in a dim corner where the
lamp-light did not fall. The old brown oak
cast shadows about her ; her dress was dark
and unobtrusive ; only her face seemed white
white, and sad, and still.

While the Canon's head was bowed in
prayer, hers was bent too in all reverence.
She did not lift her face till the preparatory
silence was broken.

The Canon's voice was lower than usual,
sadder, more impressive.

'was you know, my friends, it is not my
usual way to take a text for these Wednesday -
evening lectures ; rather have I preferred a
thought, a quotation from some poet, an idea
from some impressive writer. To-night I
would go back to the old and time tried plan ;

I would give you a text of the Holy Scripture.
This text you will find either in the
pages of St. Matthew, chapter 16th, and
verse 26th, or in St. Mark, chapter 8th,
verse 37th. . . . There is but little difference
: — *

1 " What shall a man give in exchange for his soul V"

If you turn to the New Version of the
Gospels you will find that the word " soul" is
translated u life," so that the question appears
much less impressive :

" What shall a man give in exchange for
his life ?"

1 For mere physical life men have been
drawn to exchange many things — honour,
money, faith itself. The life of the body is
precious to the most miserable among us. It
is a first instinct to fight for it, care for it,
protect it ; and that this instinct was thus
strongly implanted in us for wise ends who
can doubt ? There is even a sacredness — a
most solemn sacredness — about the most
pitiful human life.

Of course no complete sermon is intended here — this is
no place for it.

VOL. II. 37

What, then, shall we say of the soul — the
soul's life — the life that is to know no ending ?
Thought itself seems silenced while we ask
the question,

" What shall a man give in exchange for his
soul?"

1 I think it possible that some of us may
have read this text wrongly ; that we may
have understood it as if it were written :

" What shall a man take in exchange for
his soul ?"

4 It is as if the enemy of souls might offer
us a kind of bargain, as doubtless often he
does ; saying to this man, " Will you take
fame ?" to this, " Will you take riches ?"
to this, " Will you take the praise of
men r

To some of us the voice of the tempter may
come in tones of far lowlier seeming; — he
knows precisely where to strike. So to the
man weary of strife he will offer peace ; to the
woman worn by labour and care he will offer
rest ; to the brain tried sorely by responsibility
he will offer the means of luxury and ease, the
most perfect cessation from all strain, all fear
as to the future. It is this complete knowledge

that renders him so formidable as an
adversary.

Yet we are not defenceless. We are put
on our guard from the first moment of capacity
to distinguish between good and evil
The question is writ large and plain :
4 " What will you give in exchange for jour

soul r

1 What will sou gives

4 It is a strange thought at first. Is a
man's soul not really his ? Must he bus it ?
must he redeem it ? must he give something
in exchange for it if it is to be really his
own ?

4 The answer is, Yes !

1 You must work out jour own salvation.

Xot the smallest thing worth having is to
be had for nothing. Everything has its price,
and the price is proportioned to the value.
What, then, is the value sou put upon jour
soul ; the part of sou that is to live for ever ?
It must live for ever. How it is to live hereafter
sou must decide here ; this is the only
time for decision. And if sou fancy that sou
can defer the moment for deciding, believe me
that is a mistake. While sou are putting off

37—2

from day to day, the spiritual laws that rule
your spiritual life are deciding for you. The
longer you leave your soul's life to chance, the
more difficult will you find it to take your
rightful position again.

*****

Even now, to-night, you are asked — not
by me, but by One speaking through me —
even now you are asked this question :

"' What lull you GIVE in exchange for
your soul ?'

You must give something — that is the
nature of your tenure ; and seldom, if ever,
is it left to any of us to choose what we will
give. As a rule something is put before, us ;
something that we know instantly to be a
crux — a trial of our faith,

Daily we must give something ; hourly.
Take up your cross daily and follow Me,"
said the Master, speaking as none had ever
spoken before, with a regal commandingness
that drew all hearts capable of being drawn.
It is so still.

" I die daily," St. Paul declares ; and in
another place he said, "For we who live are
delivered always unto death for Jesus' sake ;

that the life also of Jesus might be made
manifest in our mortal flesh."

Everywhere it is put before the Christian
that the price he has to pay for his soul's life
is a daily death — a death to something more
than what the world counts sin.

1 The words may seem harsh, the thought
forbidding ; so they might be in reality but
for two tidings : first, the love that constrains
us, that is all about us, that is all within us,
filling; us with warmth, surrounding us with
light. This love is the first and greatest thing
that turns the true Christian's sorrow into

joy-the

second thought that should forbid the
way of life from seeming a hard way is the
certain and cruel hardness of the world's way.
Oh, my friends, believe one who has known
all too much of what the world has to offer ;
believe him when he says to you that its best
is a hollow and bitter mockery of what you
dream, of what you seek !

1 " What shall a man give in exchange for his
soul?"

Ah, what is it that he accepts ? Unrest,
wild, maddening unrest, where he had thought

peace would be : disappointment where he had
dreamed only of fruition, the fullest fruition,
of his every hope ; pain where he had felt
sure of finding joy ; sorrow instead of gladness
; loneliness on the heights where love
was to have met him ; humiliation where
praise and honour were to have been ; thanklessness
in the place of gratitude ; coldness
and unkindness where friendship had held out
both hands in token of warmth, and sympathy,
and loving-kindness.

These are the things we accept in exchange
for our soul. All too late we begin to find the
truth.

" For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever
shall lose his life for My sake and the gospel's, the same
shall save it.

" For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole
world, and lose his own soul ?"

What shall it profit him ? Oh, that we
should need to wait for our dying hour to see
this — to be able to answer this !

Every day the question is asked of us, but
to each one of us there comes a special hour
of questioning. Sometimes it is early in life,
sometimes late ; sometimes God in His mercy

sends the questioner " Fate " more than once.
"Fate," one will say; "Circumstance,"
another. It is the same thing, " the Providence,
the forethought of God."

It is God taking care for your soul, for
mine.

1 " Be sure of this," says a Christian writer yet living, long
distinguished for the purity and holiness of his living — " Be
sure of this, that if He has any love for you, if He sees aught
of good in your soul, He will afflict you, if you will not
afflict yourselves. He will not let you escape. He has ten
thousand ways of purging those whom He has chosen, from
the dross and alloy with which the fine gold is defaced. He
can bring diseases on you, or can visit you with misfortunes,
or take away your friends, or oppress your minds with darkness,
or refuse you strength to bear up against pain when
it comes upon you. He can inflict on you a lingering and
painful death. He can make ' the bitterness of death' pass
not. We, indeed, cannot decide in the case of others, when
trouble is a punishment, and when not ; yet this we know,
that all sin brings affliction. We have no means of judging
others, but we may judge ourselves. Let us judge ourselves,
that we be not judged. Let us afflict ourselves, that God
may not afflict us."

t " Let us afflict ourselves." That is usually
the meaning of these times of temptation. Weare
brought into a strait, asked what we will
give to be delivered from it, and given free
choice between two answers, often enough,
God knows, almost equally painful. Then

the result may safely be left to God Himself ;
a God to Whom we have prayed, confessed,
and before Whom we have laid all our straits
and helplessness.

1 But more frequently it happens that our
Temptation in the Wilderness — the Wilderness
of this wide, cold, unfriendly world — more
frequently it happens that oar temptation
resembles His. On the one hand there is the
offer of bread, of relief from hunger, symbolising
deliverance from temporal care. Many
of us are acquainted with that form of temptation,
and to many of us it is the strongest
of all. From the man with a little money,
who is told that with that little he may " grow
money " if he will but speculate, or gamble
with sufficient unscrupulousness, from him to
the man Who can write a pure book, and is
told, over and over again, that if he will but
put the same talent or genius into a book more
or less impure, all the golden gates will be
opened to him henceforth — from the one to
the other there is no wide stretch. The temptation
is the same.

" You have the stones," this wily tempter
points out. " And you have the power to com-inland

these stones to be made bread. Why
not ? It is a simple matter. The world that
looks upon you now coldly, or shyly, or, at
best, with hope that some day you may be
worthy of its warm patronage, the same world
would be at your feet if you did but issue the
simple command to the stones before you that
they should be made bread."

The second temptation, to spiritual power,
comes seldom to ordinary men in these days.
The time for its predominance has not yet
arrived ; it is in the distant future, the far
future, that this temptation will assail men
more frequently, more fiercely. We have not
arrived at that time, nor shall we ; not any of
us who are living now.

4 '• I shall see it, but not now ; I shall behold
it, but not nigh."

The third temptation, to temporal power,
is rife enough ; but it does not come so near,
so strenuously, to most of us as the first. Yet
the two are often combined ; then they are
strong indeed. Who shall resist them ?
* * * *

1 Again the question comes, " What shall a
man give in exchange for his soul ?"

4 Most of us, at any rate many of us, would
be ready to say at once :

" Lord, I will follow Thee whithersoever Thou goes."

But ah ! almost at the first step we stumble.
The stones are hard, the darkness, the loneliness,
the need of human sympathy and help
make the way all too difficult, and we shrink
back disheartened, dismayed, still farther even
from being at peace with ourselves.

1 If now. just now in this hour of discouragement,
we are drawn up to some mountain-top
of temptation, left alone there with the
tempter, a tempter who offers us all the good
things of this world, offering them in precisely
the manner to suit our circumstances, our age,
or inclination, how shall we escape %

1 How, indeed ? . . . . First of all there
must be a strong and clear sense of what
yielding will mean ; what it must mean here,
what hereafter.

And if there be any soul here to-night
struggling alone on the barren mountain-top
of temptation, struggling with the strange,
dark form of evil which has been permitted
to tempt mankind from the first created

human being unto, undoubtedly, the last ; if
there be any such here to-night, let him think,
let him pause, now and here. In the name of
God, I ask any such tempted soul to lay clown
his soul's burden before Him who created that
soul, and who knew of the burden, who prearranged
it, even before the world teas. Think
of that ; that however keen, and bitter, and
deep, and unbearable your trial may seem,
your Creator foresaw and arranged it all down
to the last detail.

He knows what you will do. He knows
whether you will stand or fall.

It may be that you have fallen. If so, the
price to be paid in exchange for your soul will
be so much the greater.

He knows whether you will pay it, or
whether you will exchange your soul instead
of paying it.

Also He knows that He has put every
inducement in your way. While permitting
temptation, as a sole means of spiritual growth
and strengthening, He has urged the way
of escape. The New Testament, as the Old,
is charged with the appeal, ' ; Why will ye
client

1 And yet we choose death. Thousands of
us da) 7 by day are choosing death — smiling
while we choose. And yet, behind the smile,
what tears !

4 Again I will quote from that writer whose
words of spiritual helpfulness I used but
now :

1 "It is said that we ought to enjoy this life as the gift of
God. Easy circumstances are generally thought a special
happiness ; it is thought a great point to get rid of annoyance
or discomfort of mind and body ; it is thought allowable and
suitable to make use of all means available for making life
pleasant. We desire, and confess we desire, to make time
pass agreeably, and to live in the sunshine. All things harsh
and austere are carefully put aside. We shrink from the rude
lap of earth, and the embrace of the elements, and we build
ourselves houses in which the flesh may enjoy its lust, and the
eye its pride. We aim at having all things at our will. Cold,
and hunger, and hard lodging, and ill-usage, and humble
offices, and mean appearance, are all considered serious evils.
And thus year follows year, tomorrow as to-day, till we think
that this, our artificial life, is our natural state, and must and
ever will be. But, ye sons and daughters of men, what if
this fair weather but insure the storm afterwards ? What if
it be that the nearer you attain to making yourselves as godson
earth now, the greater pain lies before you in time to
come, or even (if it must be said) the more certain becomes
your ruin when time is at an end ? Come down then from
your high chambers at this season to avert what else maybe."


There is yet time, yet, even yet, to answer

the question, " AVhat will you give in exchange
for your soul?"

1 You may yet say, " I do not care to
buy my soul. I will give nothing. I will
buy my life. I will give one sort of happiness
for another sort. I am doing this consciously.
But as for my soul, that is a
question that at least may be deferred. There
is always hope for one's soul. The thief,
dying on the cross, had hope that he might
be saved."

So he had. " This hope was given to
one man that not one might despair ; it
was given but to one, that none might presume."


But few of us, very, very few are so
presumptuous as to reply thus : " No ; we
will give ourselves to God when this crisis
is over, or that." Not next year, but this;
not next month, but this ; sometimes not
even tomorrow, but to-night; this very night,
when we kneel for our last prayer.

Then why not now, this hour, this moment?
Why not — oh! why not surrender at
once?'

The Canon had spoken the latter words

tremulously, beseechingly ; with his last
cadence his voice had broken pathetically.
. . It was evident that he could say but
little more.

The last words he had said were yet
lin^eriiw on the ear of each listener. The
candles were flickering and dying by the tin
sconces ; a chill wind was wailing outside,
shivering up the wide gray aisles of the
church.

Wilder and wilder the wind clamoured
round the old gray tower ; dreary and yet
more dreary it came wailing up the silent
aisle.

Once more Canon Godfrey broke the
silence, saying, in low, penetrating, fervid
tones :

Think of this. I beseech you, think of
it—

" What will you give in exchange for your soul V "

Another moment, the moment following
this plea, there was silence.

Then a cry rang through the church — a
sudden, thrilling, despairing, appalling cry —
such as few of those who were listening then

had ever heard before. For a moment, a long
moment, so it seemed to Canon Godfrey, no
one stirred ; no one dared to stir. The
Canon himself could not. He bowed his
head once again upon the desk, expecting
to hear the cry repeated ; but no repetition
came ; instead, he heard a low, intense, irrepressible
sobbing.

Did those few uncultured people understand?
One by one, they left the place. Mr.

Egerton went to the dim corner, where a

figure knelt in a very agony of mental pain,

not even yet to be subdued by any mere effort

of will.

Mr. Eo-eton did the best thing he could do.

He knelt by the sobbing, suffering woman;

awhile he knelt in silence, then in an audible

whisper he prayed. And his prayer brought

help and strength.

I will go home with you, Miss Theyn,

if you will permit me,' he said at last.

The Canon will follow. I do not think

he will go to the Rectory for some time

yet.'

Mr. Egerton' s surmise was correct. Till

long past midnight the Rector of Market

Yarburgh knelt and prayed in the chancel
of the church he loved so well. In a very
agony of prayer he knelt, and his prayer was
for the most part a prayer of intercession.
That prayer may not be written on this
page. It is written otherwhere — in the
book that is open before the Great White
Throne.

END OF VOL. II.

[Idling A>'D SONS. PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

A List of Books

PUBLISHED EY

CHATTO & WlNDUS,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

About.— The Fellah : An Egyptian

Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works
by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [Preparing.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrate
ons, clo th gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8v o, clo th li mp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s each.

Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Maid. Wife, or Widow?
Faerie' s Fat e.

A 1 1 e n (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clout's Calendar".

Allen (Grant) — continued.
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Philistia: Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Babylon : A Novel. With 12 Lusts.

by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
For Maine's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
In all Shades: A Novel. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
The Beckoning Hand, &c. With a

Frontispiece by Townley Green.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

An Anthology of the Novels of

the Century: Choice Readings from
all the best Novels of the last "eighty
Years. Edited, with Critical and Biographical
Notes, by H. T. Mackenzie
Bell. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. [Preparing.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By 1
Edward P. Kingston. With, a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl.eitra,3s. 6d,

Arnold. — Bird Life in England,

By Edwin Lester Arnold. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Art (The) Of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Game 1 ;, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8 vo cloth extra, 4s. 6 d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in trs Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria. — A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B. A. With
87 Illusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists : A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style of
Art. Edited, with Notices of the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea.
Imperial 4 to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt
edges, 213.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as
Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. Cd.
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm.— Wanderings in

Patagonia; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia. One Shilling Monthly.
The Number for January contained
Stories by Wilkie Collins, Miss
Brandon, Mrs. Alfred Hunt, the
Author of " Phyllis," and other Popular
Authors. — A New Serial Story by
W. Clark Russell, entitled The
Frozen Pirate, begins in the July
Number**

Now ready, the Volume for March
to June, 1887, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d.; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

1 887. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, Is.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England.
Songs for Sapor.

Besant (Waiter) and James

Race, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra*. 3s. 6d. each; post 8vo, illust.

boat Is, 2s. each; cloth limp. 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, iilust. boards, 2s. each •

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each
All Sorts and Conditions of Men:

An Impossible Story With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.
The Captains' Room, &c. With

Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.

by H. Furniss.
Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece

by Charles Green.
Uncle Jack, and other Stories.



Besant, Walter, continued —
Children of Gibeon : A Novel. New
and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The World Went Very Well Then.
With Etching of Portrait by John
Petrie, R.A., and Illustrations by
A. Forestier. Three Vols., cr. Svo.

The Art of Fiction. Demy Svo, Is.

Library Edition of the Novels of

Walter Besant & James Rice.

Messrs. Chatty & Winds have in
the press a choicely-printed Library
Edition of the Novels oj Messrs. Besant
and Rice. The Volumes (each one containing
a Complete Novel) will be printed
from a specially-cast fount of type by
Messrs. Ballantyne & Hanson, of
the Ballantyne Press, on a large crown
8vo page, and will be issued in Six-shilling
Monthly Volumes, handsomely
bound in cloth by Messrs. Burn & Co.
The First Volume of 512 pages (now
ready) is

Ready-money Mortify,
with Portrait of James Rice, etched by
Daniel A. Wehr Schmidt, and a New
Preface by Walter Besant, telling the
story of his literary partnership with
James Rice. This Novel will be followed
at regular intervals by the following : —

My Little Girl.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

The Golden Butterfly. With Etched
Portrait of Walter Besant.

The Monks of Theresa.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

The Seamy Side. &c. &c.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thousand his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8 vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Birthday Books : —

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square Svo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 410, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With

II 1 u sts. Small 8vo, cloth ex t ra, 4s. 6d .

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy avo, Illustrated, uniform
in size tor binding.
Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1886. each Is.

Blackburn, Henry, continued —

Academy Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1886, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illusts. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1883-87. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
Svo, cloth limp, 6s. [Preparing.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is \ New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8v o, cloth limp. 3s.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1887. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Demy8vo,3s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. [Trotter.

Savage Life : Adventures of a Globe-chronicles
of No-Man's Land
Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Brand's Observations on Popular

Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.

Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s. each.

Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.

Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts
Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.

Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, <kc
The Select Works of Bret Hire, in

Prose and Poetry. With I introductory

Essay by J. M. Belt f.*;- Portrait

of the Author, and 50 Illustration?.

Crown 8vo cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Bret parte's Complete Poetical

Works. Author's Copyright Edition.

Beautifully printed on hand-made

paper and bound in buckram. Cr.

8vo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, Is.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is. [2s. 6d.

Flip. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cl. limp,
Californian Stories (including The

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Maruja: A Novel. Post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With

28 original Drawings by Kate

Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours

by Edmund EvANS. Sm. 4to, bds. , 50.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), continued—
A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9 s.

Brewster(SirDavid), Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope ot
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, Mea.
Posts, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones. | London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbat h. Cr. Svo, clot h extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water. | The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 32s.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Byron (Lord):

Byron's Child Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:

The Shadow of a Crime. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

A Son of Hagar. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Lovett
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 21s.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Lovett Cameron
Ren., Cab., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas):

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or se partly , 6s. each.

Chatter Jackson.— A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bo und, 28s.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H R . Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 410, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis . De my 8vo. cloth limp, 2s . 6d.

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo,
cloth e x tra, 7s. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [In the press.

Cloud.— Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of " The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobean.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d. each ; post8vo,illustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by Sh-JohnGilbert.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du MAURiERand CS.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
"I Say No."
The Evil Genius .

Little Novels. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnig ht to M midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by :
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins . Pos t 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan . Cr own 8vo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works
by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 6; Illusts., 283.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,

cloth ext ra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play: A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s . 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock. — The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By
Charles Egbert Craddock. Po<^t
8vo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Creasy.— Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Bkckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7S. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles. — Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The Evangelist; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3jS. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant. — What" shall my

Son be P Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, clo th him p, 2s. 6d.
Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by :

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,

Is. 6d each.

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Nursery Hits: A Mo tier's Guide.

Aids to Long Life] Crown 8vo, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s 6d.

D a v i e s 1 " (Sir john) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre.— A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mi lie.— A Castle" in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
cura, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby #
Pickwick P papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. —
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
Mayfair Library. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries— continued.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A; Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Short Sayings of Great
Men. With Historical and Explanatory
Notes. By Samuel A. Bent,
M.A. Fifth Edition, revised and
enlarged. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,7s.6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. ByFRANCEs Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, ana Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9 s.

Diderot. — The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d,

Dobson~(W."T.) ) Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.



Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7a. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d [In prepared io n.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex. .Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations.with Introductory Essay
by A. Swinburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.J Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert ( Lord) ofCherbury's Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Edgcumbe. — Zephyrus : A
Holiday in South America and on
the River Plate. By E. R. Pearce
Edgcumbe. With 41 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards. 2s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious Stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in I illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by :

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo, cl both extra, 1 2s.

Eyes, Our: How to Preserve

Them from Infancy to Old Age. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. Fifth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth, Is.

Fairholt.— Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author cf " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, clo th ex tr a, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Short Sayings of

Great Men. By Samuel Arthur
Bent, A.M. Fifth Edition, Revised
and Enlarged. Crown novo, cloth
extra a, 7s. 6d.

Farmer (James Anson), Works

by:
Military Manners and Customs.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
War: Three Essays, Reprinted from

Military Manners." Crown 8vo,

IS. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Chemical History of a Candle-lectures
delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

Fin-Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fireworks, The Complete Art

of Making; or, The Pyrotechnist's
Treasury. By Thomas Kentish. With
267 Illustrations. A New Edition, Revised
throughout and greatly Enlarged.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor.
Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fatal Zero : A Homburg Diary. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems, With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Posh 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

French Literature, History of.
By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy bvo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Free.— Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 33. 6d. ; post
bvo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell.— Oneof Two: A Novel.
By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33- 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.
Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income, Officials, &c. Published
Annually. Cr. Svo, cloth, Is. 6d.

Gardening Books:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants, we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray. j The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest. [hem.

What will the A Heart's Prob-world
Say? j TheGoldenShaft.

In Honour Bound. I Of High Degree.

Queen of the ! Fancy Free.
Meadow. i Loving a Dream.

Braes of Yarrow. I A Hard Knot.

Garrett.— The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. Svo,
cl. ex., 3s. Gd. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1887. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, "Science Notes," by W.
Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
***Nowready, the Volume for January

to June, 18S7, cloth extra, price Ss. 66 ;

Cases /or binding, 2s. each.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For the King. | In PasturesGreen.
In Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.
Heart's Delight. [Preparing.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts—
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb—
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer — The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
bv W. S. Gilbert. Containing :
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
■ — The Pirates of Penzance — Iolanthe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny. — A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, limp, 2s.

ii

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 28. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte. — The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25.
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E
Evans. Sm. 410, bds., 5s.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Habberton— Breton's Bayou.

By John Habberton, Author of
"Helen's Babies." Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 410, cloth
extra, 8s.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.— Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix db
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Pest 8vo, illust.
boa rds, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haywood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts.6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. Raj. — American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell. Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

El I ice Quentin. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Miss Madonna.
Lo ve— o r a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrate d cove r, Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pressure.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2S.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index.
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With hoo fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
lis. [In preparation.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holy. — The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Holy. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.— Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo. cloth limp. 2s.



Holmes. — The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative, j
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Posts,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hooper. — The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty." A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Home.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ot Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hunt. — Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vc, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.
That other Person.
Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hydrophobia: M. Pasteur's

System. Containing a Translation of
all his Communications on the Subject,
the Technique of his Methods, the
latest Statistics, &c. By Dr. R. Suzor.
of the Faculties of Edinburgh and
Paris. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Shortly.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, bones

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Janvier. — Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by :

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Jesse.— Scenes and Occupations

of a Country Life. By Edward
J esse. Post Svo, cloth Jimp, 2s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm, F.S.A.), Works by

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations: A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately , 6s. each.

Josephus,TneCompleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Kempt.— Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Oakshott Castle. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Knight. — The Patient's Vade

Mecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates , or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals, Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

*5

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love !" | lone.

Longfellow:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
"Kavanagh," "The Poets and
Poetry of Europe, "and "Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

Machine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery machine.
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:
A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.— Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s. each.
And a Jubilee Edition, with an
Appendix of Events to the end of
18S6, complete in Two Vols., square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

McCarthy (Justin), continued —
A Short History of Our Own Times.

One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
History of the Four Georges. Four

Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.
Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune.

Linley Rochford. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell-prayed. New and Cheaper
Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:
An Outline of the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Ireland since the Union: Sketches

of Irish History from 1798 to 1886.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Case for Home Rule. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.

Second Edition, revised. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown 8vo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small 8vo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones
; or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
Works of Fancy and Imagination.
Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. — Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
and Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs.— Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance.— Vol. 7. The Portent.—
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol.
9- Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Cornelius.


The Volumes are also sold separately
i. Grolier-patten cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

Maurice Portrait-Gallery (The)

of illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs— Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrate
e of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.

Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Fraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7S. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With in Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

*7

Mark Twain's Works, continued—

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Cheap Edition, post Svo.illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame!
Written in Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth,
23. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin,

Mayfair Library, continued—'

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing : The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged— Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
—The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.

Collectedly Edited by A. Perceval

Graves.
Animals and their Masters. By Sir

Arthur Helps.
Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.
Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry

J. Jennings.
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.

By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.
Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from

his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia. By

W. H. Mallock.
New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.
Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-

ley-penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-

mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mayfair Library, continued.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. Ey Walter
Thorn-bury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side cf London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Lar Cap. Lord. Cr.8vo, Is.; cl., ls.6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. each.
T ouch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

M i I ton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions' for Diet,

Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Skin.

Wordsworth (Mrs.).— Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4S. 6d.

Moncrieff. — The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, A. R.A., Colin Hunter,
A.R.A., R. Macbeth, A.R.A., and Tom
Graham, R.S.A. Large 4to, bound in
buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Life's Atonement. I A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat. [Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.
Vai Strange. | Hearts.
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic For tune.

Old Blazer's Hero. With Illustrations
by A. McCormick. Two Vols.,
post 8vo, 12s. [Shortly .

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.

Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 73. 6d.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. By T. P. O'Connor, M. P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant~(Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo , illustrated boa rds, 2s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.
The Primrose Path.
The Greatest Heiress in England.
Reilly. — Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

CVShaughnessy (Artis), Works

by :
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.



Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Ce c i I Cast remain's

Gage.
Italia
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village

mine.
Bimbi.

In Maremma
Wands.

Frescoes. [fine.
Princess Naprax-
Othman.

Corn-wisdom,

Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo,cl.ex.,5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With Portrait. Post 8vo,cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5s.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering In the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures of
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
"The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 16s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
W h y Paul Ferrolll K ille d his Wife.

Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. | High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

The Can on's Ward.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Kit: A Memory. | Carlton's Year.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck'sTutor.iMurphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of ClyfFe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers. | Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey. | Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

The Talk of the Town.

In Peril and Privation: Stories of
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Holiday Tasks: Being Essays written
in Vacation Time. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

G low-Worm Tales. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Pears. — The Present Depression
in Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears' Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, Fas .A Fas S. Demy *vo, Is.

Penned (h] Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp. 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), WorklTby:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Paradise.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s. [Preparing.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo, illust.bds.,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Com |

plate in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Princess Olga—Radna; or, The

Great Conspiracy of 1881. By the
Princess Olga. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, lg. 6d.

Price (E.G.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster er's Rival.
Gerald. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by :

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.
each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A. Rea.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little. Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, A.R.A.,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The J i It, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.



Reader's Handbook (The) of
Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Filth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Red Spider: A Romance. By
the Author of "John Herring," &c,
Two Vols., crown Svo.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Cro wn 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party

Weird S tories.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoqf.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
The Poets' Birds.
The Poets' Beasts.
The Poets and Nature: Reptiles,
Fishes and Insects. [Preparing.

R o c h ef o u c a u Id ' s Max i m s and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by 
e. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, the; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy w ; th william
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each

cloth limp, 2s 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Round the Galley-Fire.

On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

In the M middle Watch.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6S. each.

A Voyage to the Cape.

A Book for the Ha.mmock.[Preparing.

The Frozen Pirate. The New Serial
Novel by W. Clark Russell, Author
of "The Wreck of the Grosvenor''
begins in " Belgravia " for July, and
will be continued till January next.
One Shilling, Monthly. Illustrated.

Sala.— GaslightTand DayTig ht~

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
byHEN RYSANSQN. Cr.8vo,cl .ex. 3s 6d.

Saunders (John), NoveTs~by7

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel

Guy Waterman. I Lion in the Path.

The Tw o Dreamers.
One Against the World. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The High Mills.

Heart Sal age. I Seas tian.

Gideon's Rock.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3 s, 6d.
Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physio.
1 ashy, &c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
5s. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXII. (1886), at 5s. each.
Cases for Binding, I3. 6d. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by:

Marmion. With over hoo new Illusts.
by leading Artists Sm.4to,cl.ex 16s.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over hoo new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4to,^l. ex.,16s.

Secret~Out"~ Series, The :

Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., Illusts., 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H.Cremer. 3ooIllusts.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks,Puzzles,
and Charades By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Sen ior. — By Stream and Sea.

By W.Seniqr. Post 8vo,cl.limp, 2s.6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo , cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.
William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

Shakespeare — continued.
A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo. cloth extra. 8s.

Sheridan: —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and iofull-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards , 18s.

Signboards: Their History.

With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten, Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6 d.

S ; ms (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.
by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.

Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,
illust. boards, 2s.; cloth limp, 2s 6d.

The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.
bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Mary Jane's Memoirs. With a Photograph
of Mary Jane. Post 8vo, illust.
boa rds, 2s. ; cloth, 2s.6d.

Sister Dora: A Biography. By
Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edition,
Revised, with additional Chapter,
a New Dedication and Preface,
and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, picture
cover, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Sketch ley. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrate ed boards, 2s.

Smitl-r(J7Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.



Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. New and Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 5s.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

Wife or No Wife? Cr. 8vo, picture
cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Seaman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Seaman, Author
of " Victorian Poets." Cr. 8vo,cl.ex., 9s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Sixth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. lp., 2s. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s.
The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s.

Sterndale.— The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrate
ed boards, 2s.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising
in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d .

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Po st 8vo,cl.lp.,2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by Wm.Hqne. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d .

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels.' 1 Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C.) f

Works by:
Selections from the Poetical Works

of Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo.ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr.8vo, 10s.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.
Note on Charlotte Bronte.Cr.8vo,6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued—
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 8s,
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo,"
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo,
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to' 8s
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6s
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo, 6s
Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 12s.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students 1
Sons. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment, 6s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hot en. M ed. 8v o, cloth ex tra, 7s. 6d .

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos. — Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cl. li mp, 2s.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and hoo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Ill stations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare,' ' " 'Twixt Axe and Crown, ' " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.
\* The Plays may also be had spar
lately, at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts .

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The La nd-Leaguers.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | America a n Sena tor

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.
M abel's Progress. I Anne Furness.

Trollope. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.



Trowbridge. — Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustra ted boards, 2s.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s.6d.; post 8vo,jllustrated boards, 2s.

Tytler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Tytler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
What She Came Thrc'Jgh.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.

Lady Bell.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Buried D diamonds.

Disappeared. With Six Illustrations
by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds ., 7s . 6d. eac h.

Villari. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.
Waldo rdXEdw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c, of more than 12000, distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-seventh Annual Edition,
for 1887, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage v 1c$87). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 3zmo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1887).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is.

The Shilling Knightage (1887). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued —
The Shilling House of Commons
(1887). Containing a List of all th"
Members of Parliament, their To n
and Country Addresses, &c. Ntw
Edition, embodying the results cf
the recent General Election. 32ino,
cloth, Is. Published annually.
The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1887). In One Volume,
royal 32 mo, cloth extra, g wilt edges, 5s.

Haunted London. By Walter

Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antic ue, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman, Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram, 6s.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes By
Percy Fitzgerald.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued—

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warner.— A Roundabout Journey.

By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, Sec. : —
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An
exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.
Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.
Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.
The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold

and Colours. Price 5s.

WayfarerT^The : Journal of the
Society of Cyclists. Published Quarterly.
Price Is. Number I., for October
1886, Number II., for January
1887, and Number III., for May, are
now ready.

Weather, How to Foretell the,
with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d,

Whistler's(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,lS. [Shortly .

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),
Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth Limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts., 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.), Sto~rIes~by~: "~

Cavalry Life. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood . — Sab i n a: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2 s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and

Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer

Edwards. New and cheaper issue,

cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; half-bound. 9s.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by Few. Fai rholt.F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope
Land at Last.



NEW

NE IV NO VEL by A author of " Mehalah."

Red Spider: A Romance. By Author

"John Herring." Two Vols., cr. Svo.

WIL Nie Collins NE W STORIES.
Little Novels. By Wilkie Collins,

Author of "The Woman in White."

Three Vols., crown Svo.
WALTER BESANT'S NEW NOVEL.
The World Went Very Well Then.

Three Vols., crown Svo.
CHRISTIE MURRA Y'S NEW NOVEL
Old Blazer's Hero. By D. Christie

Murray. Two Vols., crown 8vo,

12s. [Shortly.

NOVELS.

JAMES PAYN's NEW Collection
OF STORIES.
Glow-Worm Tales. By James Pain.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

NEW RUSSIAN REVOLUTIONARY

NOVEL.
Rana; or, The Great Conspiracy of

1881. By the Princess Olga. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

SARAH Tatler's NEW NOVEL.

Disappeared : A Novel. By Sarah
Tytler, Author of " Saint Mungo's
City," &c. With Six Illustrations by
P. Macnab. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

THE PICCAD

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth
BY GRANT ALLEN.
Phiiistia.
In all Shades.
BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Luoraft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster. | Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

ILLY NOVELS.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY WILKIE COLLINS
Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White
The Moonstone
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No

BY DUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BY R. E. Francisco.
QueenCophetua.
One by One.
A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft. I Of High Degree.
Fancy Free. | Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Ellice Quentin.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. | Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS,
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.
That other Person.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love !" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQuixote

The Comet of a Season

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

BY MRS. MAC DO NELL
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written In Fire.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. ; Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. | Val Strange.
A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
BY E

Valentina.

A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
The Canon's

Ward
Talk of the Town.
C. PRICE.
| The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.
Buried Diamonds.

BY C.C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post Svo, illustrated
BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Strange Stories.
Philistia.
Babylon.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
"Valley Grange.

ttY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
AH Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow off The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard.
Matt.

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.
The Master of the Mine.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.

Basil.

Hide and Seek.

The Dead Secret.

Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —

Wilkie Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. I Haunted Hotel.
Poop Miss Finch. I The Fallen Leaves.
Miss or'Mrs.P Jezebel'sDaughter

New Magdalen. [The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. ! Heart and Science
Law and the Lady, i " I Say No."
TheTwo Destinies I The Evil Genius.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY DUTTON COOK.
Leo. | Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky

Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY J AMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY HA IN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girl.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. i The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest.
What will the A Heart's Problem
World Say ? j Braes of Yarrow.
In Honour Bound. { The Golden Shaft.
In Love and War. Of High Degree.
For the King. Fancy Free.

In PasturesGreen Mead and Stream.
Queen of the Mea Loving a Dream,
dow. I A Hard Knot.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Breton's Bayou.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke

Ellice Quentin. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife. t

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Ray.

BY TIG HE HOPKINS.
'Twixt Love and Duty.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas,



Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
E. Lynn Linton, continued —
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love." | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by yusnN McCarthy.

Dear LadyDIsdaln MissMisanthrope
The Waterdale Donna Quixote.

Neighbours. The Comet of a

My Enemy's Season.

Daughter. Maid of Athens.

A Fair Saxon. i Camiola.

Linley Rochford. |

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air.

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. I Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALife'sAtonement Hearts.
A Model Father. Way of the World.
Joseph's Coat. A Bit of Human

Coals of Fire. Nature.

By the Gate of the First Person Sin-sea,
gular.
Val Strange. Cynic Fortune.
BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Held in Bondage. TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.
In a Winter City.
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
1 Pipistrello.
i A Village Comp
mine.
ibi.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.
Lost Sir Massing | Like Father, Like

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.

FUCr'v.

Folle Farine.

A Dog cf Flanders. ' Wands.
Pascal. Frescoes.

Signa. [Fine. I In Maremma.

Princess Naprax- Both mar.

Treated



A Perfect
sure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of Clyffe

The Family Scapegrace.


Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

Humorous Stories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

Son.

Marine Residence.
Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlton's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
I For Cash Only.
I Kit: A Memory.
I The Canon's Ward
1 Talk of the Town.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. \ Peg Washington.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. A Woman-hater

Readiana. The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &• W INDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY JAMES RU NCI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.
In the Middle Watch.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORN BURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRANCES ELEANORTROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY Jet. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.
Life on the Mississippi.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY Jas. WINTER,
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. J The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. Ey

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o* Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight
The Silvered Squatters. By R.
louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN AMD CO. LIMITED, PRINTERS, GREAT Saffron HILL, Eg.

■

Mm.

s^«

7 fc

3 0112 049098665

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS



v.3

BY

MARY LINSKILL

AUTHOR OF

BETWEEN THE HEATHER AND THE NORTHERN SEA,' 'HAGAR,

THE HAVEN UNDER THE HILL,' ETC.

^jgggg^/

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

london
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



The right of translation is reserved

Discontents

OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

XLVII. IN THE DEAD OF THE NIGHT - - 1

XL VIII. THE DAY THAT CAME AFTER - - 18
XLIX. ' CAN YOU NOT BRING AGAIN MY BLESSED

YESTERDAY V - - - 26
L. 'AT YOUR SOFT TOUCH OF PITY LET ME

WEEP' - - - - 38

LI. 'WHEN HOPE LIES DEAD' - - 52

LII. ' SHALL WE SEE TO IT, I AND YOU V - 70

LEU. 'LOVE, HOPE, FEAR, FAITH, THESE MAKE

HUMANITY ' - - - - 82

LEV. OLD EPHRAIM - - - - 93
LV. A LETTER FROM THE LAKE OF THE FOUR

CANTONS - - - 102

LVL AT THE OLD HOUSE ON THE FORECLIFF - 120
LVII. 'GO AND PRAY — THE NIGHT DRAWS

NEAR' - - - - 134

CHAPTER PAGE

LVIII. 'UPON THE Wave EDGED SAND' - - 149

LIX. ANOTHER SEA-STORY - - - 165

LX. IN THAT SAD NIGHT - . - 177

LXI. 'AND AFTER MY LONG VOYAGE I SHALL

REST' - - - - 188

Lxii BARBARA'S STORY - - - - 196

LXIII. 'AND NOW THE DAY IS NEARLY GONE' - 213

LXIV. 'IN TO-DAY, ALREADY WALKS TO-MORROW ' 223

LXV. THE UNEXPECTED - 236

LXVI. AS A TALE THAT IS TOLD - - 255

Lxvi AT DAWN OF DAY - - - 265

Lxviii 'LET US ARISE, AND GO ' - - - 278

EPILOGUE - - - - - 284

CHAPTER XL VII.

IN THE DEAD OF THE NIGHT.

God answers sharp and sudden on some prayers,
And thrusts the thing we have prayed for in our face,
A gauntlet with a gift in it.'

E. B. Browning.

Not a moment — not one moment might be
given to deliberation. Thought would undo all.

I have thought too much,' Thorhilcla
Theyn said to herself. ( Now I must act.'

Endure long as we may, long as we can,
if at any time we determine to cease from
endurance, there is always a determining
cause. As a rule this cause comes suddenly :
as a rule it is a trilling one ; very trifling if
compared with our months or years of suffering.

The working-man who strikes his wife —
vol. in. 38

perhaps half-murders her — and so brings
himself into public disgrace for the remainder
of his life, because his dinner was not ready
at the time he needed it, may perhaps not
have known for years past what it was to
have a meal decently cooked, and ready intime.
All his years of patience go for nothing
in a moment, so far as the world is concerned.
In a dim and dumb way he may thank Godin
his prison-cell that there is another world,
but he is not very likely to know much of
thankfulness of any kind, any more than his
wife will know of remorse or of repentance.

No, the remorse must be all his, who forgot
himself after long years of patient endurance ;
and largely the feeling is born of what he
knows the world to be feeling toward him.
He had a trifling grievance to bear for once,
and he struck a helpless and defenceless woman.
Such is he in the eyes of the little world all
about him.

It is a typical case ; there are thousands
such — thousands that would show how one
moment will undo all that years have done.

Such a moment had come to Miss Theyn, of
all people one the most ill-adapted to bearing

it. That cry in the church — that piercing,
bitter, betraying cry — had undone all. She
did not once think of it — not with anything
like deliberate thought — yet her very brain
seemed on fire with the sound of it. Think
of it ! She was possessed by it. All the
world — all the little world about her — would
know tomorrow. They would know of her
scream, how it had pierced her through and
through till she could bear no more.

All round her room there were preparations
for the following Tuesday — the day that was
to have been the wedding-day. Her wedding-gown
hung in the wardrobe — a rich, lustrous
dress of white silk, and lace, and ribbons, and
flowers. Her bridal veil, with its wreath of
orange-blossoms, lay carefully folded by her
aunt's own hands in the drawer below, folded
and covered with white tissue paper, that it
might not be seen or touched any more till
the eventful morning. On the dressing-table
was the box which Percival Meredith had
brought only the day before for her acceptance.
It contained a necklace of family
jewels, diamonds, and pearls, which he had
had reset for her. They were very beautiful ;

38—2

she Lad admired them ; she had put the
necklace round her throat for her aunt
Milicent to see whether it fitted well, and she
had felt a momentary pleasure in them. Now
the mere outside of the case was an added pang.

Close to it was another case, containing the
four lockets, the four bracelets for her bridesmaids.
These had been brought for her inspection
only. They were Percival's presents —
lockets and bracelets of gold, with a monogram
on each in pearls and turquoise. What would
Gertrude Douglas say ? What would Laura,
and Elaine, and Claremont Thelton think?
These were the four girls she had herself asked
to stand beside her at the altar next Tuesday
less than a week hence. What would it be
possible for them to think or say ?

On reaching the Eectory, Miss Theyn had
dismissed Mr. Egerton, not ungratefully.

I know now that you have seen, have
understood all,' she said, yet in a state of
extreme nervous agitation, as he perceived ;
but do not think too hardly of me. Try
to think the best you can, will you V

1 1 hope I am not given to thinking hard
things of anyone. If I tried I should never

l>e able to think other than kindly of you. . . .
But — may I say it ? may I speak as if I were
your brother ? — will you not reconsider, even
now f Such things have been done before
to-days

Thorhilda held out her hand. ' Thank
you ! Good-night ! good-bye ! Again I thank
you !'

Going indoors, she had sent a message to
her aunt, simply saying that she was not quite
well and would go to her own room.

Mrs. Godfrey had no suspicion ; she sat
reading, waiting for her husband's return,
and finding he did not come, she supposed
that he had been sent for to see some sick
person. That happened so often that she
was quite accustomed to it. ' I will go to
bed,' she said to herself at last, ' but I must
see how Thorda is first.'

Thorhilda's door was unfastened. Mrs.
Godfrey tapped, and then went in as usual.
Even now there was nothing to arouse question.
The room looked as it had clone for
some weeks past — a little crowded, a little
disarranged. Her niece was not in bed.

1 How is this, dear V she said, going round

to the sofa, where a pale figure sat, with
clasped rigid hands, white set face, and eyes
that seemed to burn in their brilliance. ' How
is this 1 I thought you had gone to bed
long ago, and I would not disturb you.
What is it ? The old enemy — a bad headache
V

My head does ache, I think.'

Be thankful, darling, that it isn't your
heart that aches,' Mrs. Godfrey answered,
certainly not meaning to be unkind, and
not dreaming that she could be unperceptive.


To Thorda the speech was as if some one
had cast a stone at her. For one moment —
one wildly agitating moment — she had had
an impulse to throw herself at her aunt's feet,
to confess all, beseech her aid ; but a second
glance at the tall, stately figure, at the
beautiful, undisturbed, unperceptive face, the
blue eyes that could change and look cold and
surprised, even angry — this second glance
made the suffering girl shudder to think of
her impulse, and the consternation that would
have been had she obeyed it. Besides, there
was the strong; conviction that no good could

come of any such betrayal. ' I should have
been over-persuaded. . . . All chance of
escape would have been at an end. ?

1 Do go to bed, clear,' Mrs. Godfrey urged.
You are looking quite worn. This will
never do, and the 11th so near ! By the way,
have you seen the parcel that came to-night ?
It came whilst you were at church. No ? I
fancy it is from Lady Margaret ; it is certainly
like her handwriting. I should not wonder if
it is another silver tray — it looked like that.
What a pity it is that so many of your
presents are duplicates !'

Thorhilda did not reply ; she felt her heart
hardening under this unseeing gentleness of
speech and manner. One word — one understanding
word — and that night's work — that
sad night's work — had never been done.

But the word was not said. Mrs. Godfrey
went away, offering to send tea, sal-volatile,
wine and hot water ; but these were not the
things her niece was needing. With a warm,
loving kiss, a word of benediction that
seemed to have no blessing in it, Mrs.
Godfrey parted from her niece. For a long
while Thorhilda sat by the fire in silence.

Thought itself was silent — she dared not
think.

Some time after midnight she heard her
uncle opening the door of his study. Her
heart beat the quicker for the sound. No
shadow of resentment crossed her mind —
nay, rather did she feel sorrow, regret for the
pain she knew she had caused to him. His
intention had been of the best. He had been
moved to speak thus by his conscience ; by
the highest and holiest influences acting upon
his sensitive soul. And he could not have
dreamed of any such result as that which had
actually happened.

What had he dreamed of ?

Had Miss Theyn once asked herself this
question, once tried in solitude and quietness
of soul to answer it, she must have been
impelled to a mood different from that which
was dominating her now.

One idea had entered into her soul, taken
complete and absorbing possession of it, as
she left the church ; and nothing; since had
shaken it, or lessened its persistent weight.

There was only one way of escape, only
one ; and this she must follow.

What shall a man give in exchange for his
soul V

All night the words rang in her ears :
while she sat w T watching the flickering blaze of
the fire ; while she knelt by her bedside, in
dumb, wordless prayer ; while she paced to
and fro across her room ; ever and again
between the wailing of the winter wind there
came the words, coming like a cry, a plea :

What will you give in exchange for your
soul V

And now her answer was ready.

1 I will give all.

1 I will sacrifice this prospect that has
seemed so much to me ; and in doing so now
I must pay the price for the sin of indulging
in it so often ; the sin of yielding to a temptation
that I knew— that all the while I knew
to be a temptation — tempting me from the
right — and for what ? . . . For these V she
said, looking round upon the costly jewellery,
the splendid dress. ' Was it possible that I
could be so drawn away for these f

No ; in a calm moment she was constrained
to admit that it was not mere finery, not mere
luxury, that had been her temptation. There

had been many things beyond, a multiplicity
of ideas merging in one. There had been the
dread of an uncertain future : with the sight
of Garlaff Grange and its unlovely, unseemly
poverty on the one hand ; of Ormston Magna
and all its graceful and artistic ease on the
other.

I was tempted, and I fell

That was all she could say now. ' I have
been tempted, and I have fallen ; but I will
fall no farther. There is one way of escape,
only one, and that one, agonizing though it
be, I will take. . I must take it. . . . There
is no other way.'

All these things were said as one speaking
in a kind of trance might have spoken. That
moment in the church had marked a certain
amount of disorganization of the brain.

A discerning man, a psychologist as well
as a physiologist, said some time ago that from
the first betrayal of temper on the part of a
wayward girl to the last raving of the maniac
in the cell of a lunatic asylum there is no
break, no missing link in the chain of aberration.
This is not understood as it ought to
be. There is only One who understands.

We blame this man for this divergence
from what we conceive to be right ; that
woman for that ; while all the while, what
know we %

When Christ forgave the woman taken in
sin, brought before Him by vehement accusers,
doubtless these same accusers were startled.

I do not condemn thee. Go, and sin no more.'

So He spake ; but there was none left to
hear this conclusion. Self-condemned they
had gone out from His pure Presence.

They had perceived that He understood ;
that not only His compassion, but His comprehension,
passed far beyond theirs. They
were silenced.

One cannot help somewhat envying that
sinful woman. Her sin was understood ; and
it was not condemned.

4 We, even we, pardon all that we comprehend,'
says the old French proverb ; and, ah,
the truth of it !

We comprehend so little. We see the sin,
but not the temptation. We witness the
fall, but not the oft-repeated, and greatly-prolonged

strife which has preceded the fatal
moment.

It was Thorhilda Theyn's misfortune that in
this hour of her deepest trial she had no friend
to whom she could turn in all her weakness,
all her despair, all her sense of wrong-doing,
and say, ' Forgive me, save me, help me to
save myself !'

Only one thing she had strength to resolve
upon : she would sin no farther, not in the same
direction. If the idea she was now resolved
to carry out was also a sin, surely it were a
more venial one, surely it were more easily
forgiven, since it involved such desperate pain.

So the night passed, not in thought, not
in prayer, but in a dull mechanical semblance
of each.

It was some hours past midnight when at
last she sat down by her writing-table.

I must at least say " good-bye," dear Aunt
Milicent,' she began. ' And I must ask you
to forgive me. This will seem like terrible
ingratitude for all that you have been to me.
I dare not think of it, of all that I know you
will suffer. Yet no one can blame you. As
for dear Uncle Hugh, I must not let myself

think of him. Yet it is his doing. He has
saved me. It is his word that has helped me,
given me back the power to see things in their
true light. . . . And there was no other way of
escape but this — at least I cannot see any-other.
How could I remain here with that
day, that dread day so near, and refuse to
keep my promise % All the world about me
would have thought me mad. I had no
excuse for further delay, not one ; and as for
breaking off the engagement now, when all is
ready down to the ordering of the last dish
for the breakfast, and yet remaining here, you
will see for yourself how impossible that would
have been. No ; I have no resource but this.
. . I cannot write of it. . I can write no
more of anything. My brain is strangely
tortured. It does not seem my own, but someone
else's brain — one that I cannot understand.
Yet it seems that I must obey its dictates,
write what it bids me write, do what it bids
me do. . . . Again I entreat you to forgive me,
and if you can, forget me. Dear Aunt
Milicent, I never loved you more than I doat
this moment, believing that I shall never
see you again. How good you have been tome

! how kind ! Will anyone ever care forme
again V

This was her weakest moment. Her hand
trembled so that the words were nearly illegible
; yet no tears came, no sobs. She sat
on, listening to the wind as it wailed round
the house, tossing the trees close to her
window, moaning in the casement. Then
came a soft sudden dashing as of snow upon
the window-pane ; yet she hardly heard it, or
hearing, did not recognise.

So the night went on ; passed in an agony
so intense as to be most mercifully benumbing.

When or how any purpose shaped itself in
her mind she could not afterward recall. She
had no remembrance of ever having looked
into that future that was not terrible, only
because it was not visible.

She had sinned ; and after sin punishment
was sure to follow. ' Be sure your sin will
find you out.' Not, ' Be sure your sin will be
found out.' Sin often is not 'found out' of
others ; but it finds one's self ; and shows no
mercy in the finding.

But not even yet was the sense of wrongdoing
Thorhilda Theyn's worst trouble. Full

knowledge, fall consciousness, could only come
with the return of the fuller tide of life. The
hour for the utterance of the exceeding bitter
cry of a perfect repentance had not yet struck.
And now the night was almost gone ; there
was a faint light showing through the curtains
when Miss Theyn once more took up
her pen to add a final word.

Again " good-bye," again I ask you to forgive
me. If I knew aught of my future I
should think it best for you that I should
keep silence. If you know nothing people
cannot torture you to confide in them. (I
am not meaning anyone in particular.) But
I could not tell you if I would, for I know
nothing myself. I know nothing but that I
am leaving the happiest home that ever anyone
had.

Dear Uncle Hugh, what it is to leave you!
to go out into an unknown world ! , I dare
not think ! . . . Once more " good-bye." You
can yet pray for your unhappy

1 Thorax
# * #

About half an hour later a figure in a gray

cloak and closely fitting bonnet and veil
passed out from the front-door of Yarburgh
Rectory into a world of such wild whitening
beauty as is seldom seen. Every tree in the
garden stood in radiant white, each tiny
branch with each of its curves fully developed
against the deep indigo of the snow-laden
sky beyond. The flakes were falling slowly,
sadly ; the wind wailing less wildly and
wearily ; yet it was a chilling wind, and
swept through the very heart of the carefully
nurtured girl who strove even in that hour
of abandonment not to betray herself to herself
by yielding to mere physical weakness.

4 Life can no more be what life has been
she said to herself. ' I must learn to strive
to endure.'

So saying, she came to the big iron gates.
It was a difficult matter to ojoen them, to
pass out, with snow under her feet, snow
and wind driving overhead. And just then
a sudden squall arose, seeming as if it
swept upward from the great gray sea that
lay darkling under the stormy snow-cloud.
Wildly and more wildly it swept through
the leafless trees ; the accumulated snow came

down in avalanches upon the slight gray
figure that struggled onward with such
bravery as might belong to a broken heart.
In that hour life itself seemed over. All
that could remain, at the best, would be endurance.
Why live, only to endure? Surely
there was a limit to human suffering !

I would be content to die, nay, glad to
die she said to herself, still striving with
the bitter wind and the driving snow.
1 Strong men have died thus, beaten to their
death by merciless storms. Why cannot I
die ? I should be so glad, so very glad to
lie down under the nearest hedgerow, and so
swoon on to death." '

Yet she strove onward ; some principle
and instinct of life within her urging her to
strive.

So striving, the dawn-light slowly growing,
the cruel storm increasing, she passed on, on
beyond Yarburgh ; far above the Bight of
Ulvstan where the white water was breaking
upon the scar. Still onward she strove,
and whither she went, none knew.

vol. in. 39

THE DAY THAT CAME AFTER.

'Tis when we suffer, gentlest thoughts
Within the bosom spring.' •

Faber.

It was a wild tempestuous morning. The
snow swept past the window-pane, the outside
world was blotted from sight, the trees were
snow-laden to the smallest branch ; and yet the
flakes kept on falling, now wildly, now madly ;
now gently and softly. Looking upward all was
gray, and dim, and formless : looking below, all
was white, and soft, and lovely and entrancing.
One is almost glad to see it, for a change,'
Canon Godfrey said, rubbing his chill hands
one over the other. For nearly an hour he
had been reading in a fireless room. ; Yet
how carelessly one says that!' he added presently.
' Oue does not think at first, of all that

frost and snow must mean down in the Bight.
. . God help them all ! How good they are,
for the most part; how brave, how patient!'

Still the big white flakes came whirling
down, hiding the white-edged holly-tree : the
tall cedar beyond, the dark Scotch firs that
yet retained their picturesque form. Indoors
all was perfect in the way of contrast. A
large coal fire blazed vigorously ; the lamp
burned under the coffee-pot, warm dishes
were appearing one after another upon the
table — muffins, toast, eggs, grilled chicken.

Why doesn't Thorda come ?' the Canon
said at last, not speaking with quite his usual
easiness. His remembrance of the night before
was still too strong upon him for ease.;

We will not wait, Hugh dear,' Mrs. Godfrey
said.

She was not angry, not displeased ; yet in
no way was she touched to any unwonted
forbearance.

But it is not usual for her to be late!' her
husband urged.

1 All the more reason why we should give
her a little grace when it does happen,' Mrs.
Godfrey replied lightly.

39—2

She spoke quite lightly and carelessly,
and breakfast was begun and ended without
further remonstrance on the part of
Canon Godfrey ; but when he rose from the
table he sent a message to his niece. Her
aunt desired to know whether she was well
enough to come down, or whether she preferred
to have breakfast in her own room.
Quite thinkingly he sent the message in his
wife's name. He had not now to discern
that there was some little rift within the lute
that once had made only such sweet and
pleasant music.

He felt a strong wish to see his niece again
before going back to his study, to judge for
himself as to how the distressing occurrence
of the previous evening had added to the unhappiness
he feared she had had before. He
had not mentioned that sad moment to his
wife, and since she had not mentioned it to
him, he knew that Thorhilda had not cared
to seek her aunt's sympathy. He understood
his niece's reluctance to meet him ; and he
knew that it would be better they should
meet at once, and in the presence of a third
person. He was sorry that she had not comedown

as usual. It is always best and easiest
to take no outward notice of an awkward
moment. The inner soul is stronger for the
external reticence.

It was Ellerton who had taken the Canon's
message to Martha, the girl who waited upon
Miss Theyn. It was Martha's answer that
Ellerton brought.

The man entered the room, and stood for
awhile by the sideboard with a strange look
on his face.

1 Well !' the Canon exclaimed, in an almost
amused surprise.

He was not accustomed to see the somewhat
loquacious Ellerton pale and speechless.

She's not there, sir — Miss Theyn ; she's
not there !' the man said at last.

• Xot where ? . . . Where have you been ?
What's the matter with you?' was the impatient
questioning.

• Martha went upstairs, sir — she went to
Miss Theyn's room ! . . . And the bed ! . . .
It haven't been slept in, sir!'

A few seconds later Canon Godfrey himself
stood gazing upon the bed where his niece
should have slept. His wife was close beside

him ; with pallid faces they looked upon each
other, and had no strength to speak.

They entered farther into the room, looked
round upon the dainty, feminine arrangements.
Some of the wedding presents were
there ; the case containing the diamond necklace
had been left half open ; the lockets and
bracelets for the bridesmaids were in their
cream-coloured velvet tray. The door of the
wardrobe had been left open ; the glitter of
the white dress showed in the gray light ; a
spray of orange-blossoms festooning some
tulle was visible. A rose-coloured dressing-gown
was lying over a chair in front of the
long dead fire ; a pair of tiny woollen slippers
were set up against the fender ; a prayer-book
lay open upon the white coverlet of the
bed.

It was the Canon who saw Thorhilda's
letter lying upon the writing-table. It was
addressed to his wife ; yet he knew that he
should be sparing her if he opened it and
read it. Quite calmly he read on from the
first plea to the last, from the first confession
to the last betrayal.

1 Dear Uncle Hugh, forgive me ! What it

is to leave you, to go out into an unknown
world ! . . . I dare not think ! '

Canon Godfrey read a part of the letter
to his wife ; she begged to be allowed to see
it, to read it herself; but this he would not
permit.

c There is nothing in it you need to know,
dear ; trust me for that, can you not ?'

1 Trust you ! There is no one, no one else
in all the world I can trust she said with
tearful eyes and trembling, hardly restrained
lips. ' But, Hugh, my darling Hugh, you
will bring Thorda back ? You will not let
her go ? . . . We will persuade her, we will
persuade him ; there may be delay ; there
must, I fear, be pain and even exposure.
But it will come right in the end. Say that
it will ! She cannot — she cannot be meaning
now, at this eleventh hour, to say that she
will not marry Percival !'

The Canon sighed. Would his wife never
understand ? Within himself, and unknown
to himself, he dreaded the labour of trying
to bring about a full and clear comprehension.
And in truth it was a difficult task. When
all was done that might be done, all said that

might be said, Mrs. Godfrey was still irrational,
unconvinced, more or less hopeful.
The Canon could only sigh and turn away.

1 What are you going to do, Hugh dear ?'
she asked plaintively. ' What can you do ?
You have no clue ?'

None whatever so far, not the very
slightest. . I am going up to — to her room
again, to see if I can find any. . . . No, dear,
I would rather go alone. . . . Excuse me.
You are not equal to going again to that
room yet.'

Mrs. Godfrey was not unwilling to rest her
aching head upon the cushions of her sofa.
Meanwhile the Canon was moving about a
dainty upper room, moving reverently, slowly,
as he might have gone about some altar-place.
At last he came upon a letter-case, and within
it there was the rough draft of a letter —
whether it had ever been rightly written and
sent he could not tell. There was no indication,
nor was there any superscription ; it was
only by internal evidence that he judged it to
have been intended for a lady whom he knew
to be living near London, a lady whom 
had only seen once for a few days in her

early girlhood, and of whom she could have
known but very little except from hearsay.
Was it possible that she could have taken refuge
with so mere a stranger ? Was it possible
that she could have turned from a heart that
lived and beat — humanly speaking — so truly
for her, for her purest happiness, her highest
good, to find shelter, sympathy, in a home all
unknown to her — was this really within the
bounds of possibility ? Almost for the first
time in his life a deadly faintness overcame
Canon Godfrey as he sat down upon the sofa
his niece had occupied so lately, and a strange
unconsciousness passed upon him. Not till
long afterwards did he know what that unconsciousness
meant. When he did know,
those about him said, ' Too late ! too late !'
Within himself there was joy, because he
could say, ' So soon f

CAN YOU NOT BRING AGAIN MY BLESSED
YESTERDAY ?'

i And shame gives back what nothing else can give :
Man to himself ,— then sets him up on high.'

Christina Rossetti.

Having that slight clue gathered 'from the
rough draft of a letter, Canon Godfrey eras
spared the pain and mistake of making inquiries
in the immediate neighbourhood of
Yarburgh Rectory. Yet he had enough of
pain before him. He was quite calm. Five
minutes alone in prayer had been sufficient to
insure for him hours of calmness. His first
step was to ride over to Danesborough, send
off a telegram or two, and arrange with a
clerical friend there to take his place if he
should be absent on the following Sunday.
His next duty, to go over to Ormston Magna

and explain all before the tongue of gossip
had had time to tell the sad story, was an unutterably
painful one. Yet he seemed to see
beforehand precisely how Percival Meredith
would receive his news. There would be no
cry of despair, no expression of unspeakable
agony. And in thus thinking he was not
mistaken. Naturally, the Meredithss were surprised
to see him. It was yet quite early; and the
pallor, the stillness of his face was like a warning.

Don't say that anybody at the Rectory is
ill !' Mrs. Meredith cried, putting up her two
pretty white hands as if she would ward off
any evil news.

111 !' the Canon replied, with no answer to
his interlocutor's half-smile on his grave face.
If it were a question of mere illness I think
I could bear to speak. . . . As it is. . . .'

Whatever it is, tell us — tell us at once f
Mrs. Meredith cried impatiently, glancing at
her son, who stood with a philosophic smile
on his lip, turning a broad gold ring that was
upon his finger with a certain meaning in the
action.

There was no alarm upon his face, no anxiety.
For very surprise the Canon could not speak.

1 And I thought myself prepared,' he was
saying to himself. Mrs. Meredith's attitude
was very different.

1 For heaven's sake speak, Canon Godfrey —
say what you have come to say !' she urged.
1 1 feel sure it is something dreadful ; and I
cannot bear suspense.'

1 Pardon me,' Hugh Godfrey replied, lifting
his sad eyes, turning his tense white face.
Do forgive me. It is as you say, something
very terrible I have to disclose. . I can
find no Avoids. It is my niece — Thorhilda,
who was to have been your son's wife within
the week. . It seems she. . . . she could
not bear the thought of marriage now that it
came so near. . . . And she has. . . . she
has gone away ; she left the Eectory this
morning. . . . My wife hardly realizes it, I
think.'

Mrs. Meredith's laugh, a long, low, soft,
unbelieving laugh, made Canon Godfrey shudder.
The smile on the son's face was worse
than the mother's laughter. Percival Meredith
was the one to break the silence.

AVhat a pretty comedy you have arranged !'
he remarked in the smoothest of tones. ' I

am only sorry that you have given me the
part of " fool " to play.'

Canon Godfrey could only turn in silent
misery to Mrs. Meredith. His fine face was
not discomfited by the sneer that was upon
her lips.

Would you ask us — would you even wish
us to believe that you do not know where
they have gone — the happy and interesting
pair ?'

Who are you alluding to ?' the Canon asked
in sudden fierceness, and with most unusual
lack of grammatical precision.

Mrs. Meredith was equal to the moment.

I am not alluding to anyone. I am speaking
of your pet niece, Miss Theyn, and her
fortunate lover, Damian Aldenmede, a wandering
artist, a penniless adventurer, who is
doubtless at this moment congratulating himself
on his good luck.'

Canon Godfrey had no alternative bat to
sit down in the chair nearest to him ; and
again that strange, appalling sense of powerlessness
came over him, and he knew himself
to be in the grasp of a power against which
he could offer no resistance.

1 How many times must one die before
death comes ?' was the silent cry of the much-tried
heart within the man.

For some time he was silent. Then he rose
to his feet, himself again, a Christian, and a
gentleman, therefore considerate of those to
whom it had been his duty to bring a painful
disclosure.

1 I will forget what you have said, Mrs.
Meredith ; I can do that — not easily, but I
can do it, knowing what I must know of
your — your annoyance !'

That is the exact word,' the lady replied
proudly. ' I am annoyed — my son is annoyed
■ — how should we be otherwise ? We shall bea
laughing-stock for the Three Ridings ! But
be assured that we shall recover ; it is not impossible
that we may live to be grateful for
what has happened.'

For some time longer the Canon stood
there, feeling it a mere matter of duty to
endure the last scornful sentence, the final
bitter word. Percival Meredith's smiling and
supercilious silence was as difficult to bear as
anything his mother could say.

The Canon took his leave at last. His

gray-white face — the look of hidden suffering
written there — made no impression upon those
who watched him as he departed. To either
of them it was but an hypocrisy the more.

They were able to comfort each other — the
mother and son ; and before half the day was
over to assure each other that all was for the
best. And as for the gossip, the amusement
well, they were above it, apart from it. It
would not come near them, and they need not
go to seek it.

We can afford it, Percy ; we can afford
even this !' Mrs. Meredith said with a satirical
pride not made too evident. ' We must let
no one see that Miss Theyn's elopement
causes us anything but a very mitigated
regret.'

And, indeed, there was nothing else to be
seen. If Percival Meredith did imagine once
or twice for a few moments that he suffered
deeper, truer grief, it was not necessary on
that account that any compassion should be
wasted upon him. His strength was equal to
his grief.

As a matter of course, within four-and-twenty
hours the news had spread everywhere

; with the usual exaggerations and
additions, more than one of which might have
been traced to Ormston Magna.

It is only fair to say that no one who had
really known either Thorhilda Theyn or
Damian Aldenmede dreamt that there could
be the slightest grain of truth in the rumour
that included these two names in one hateful
lie.

When it was repeated to Barbara Burdas,
the woman who uttered it had reason for
wishing that the gift of reticence had been
hers. Barbara was silent for a moment ; the
hot, rapid colour spread over her face and
neck ; a strange sudden light flashed from her
eyes.

Are they daring to say that ? and of her,
of him?' she exclaimed in a very passion of
earnestness. ' Good heavens, what a world
this is ! Is there ever a good man or woman
in it that escapes slander and lying? Is there
one? To think that any human lips could
dare to utter a lie like that !'

Later, Barbara seemed to understand how
it had been with Miss Theyn at the last. It
did not seem like any lightning flash of comprehension

that came to her, but just a
gradual development of natural light.

1 She could do no other,' Bab declared, that
light still flashing in her eyes, a flash coming
again upon her olive-tinted cheek. It was
nio'ht now, the world about her was all
asleep. But the little Ildy was not well, and
needed that Bab should walk up and down
the cottage floor with her till long past midnight.
Barbara was all patience, all kindness
for the suffering baby ; but yet to-night
her burning thought was of the tale she had
been told.

She could do no other than she has done
Bab said to herself. ' They'd surrounded her,
overpowered her, and she had yielded. Then
she saw what she had done, and knew there
was only one way out of it. And that way
she has taken, never heeding what the end
may be! And as for him, Mr. Aldenmede,
him that went beyond the seas ever so long
ago, he'll never know. Perhaps it's better
so. He can never know the wickedness a
wicked world can invent. . . . But, oh !
was there nobody to spend their inventions

vol. in. 40

on but her and him, two of the best and
purest that ever lived? ^Yas there none but
them T

While Barbara was spending her indignation
thus, the gossips of the Bight, and far beyond
the Bight, were finding sufficient food for the
slander they revelled in. There is no need to
write here the low taunts, the spiteful accusations
of hypocrisy. It is sufficient to say
that perhaps no man or woman, upon whose
lips the slander dwelt, would not have grieved,
and bitterly, compassionately, had they been
able to enter into the heart of the suffering
Thorhilda Theyn was enduring even while
they spoke.

1 The sacrifice of God is a broken spirit.'
To how many thousands have these words
given comfort ! To how many thousands
have they seemed as if specially written for
them !

A broken spirit /' To have nothing left
but that; nothing, in all the world nothing,
but a heart, a spirit broken with the sense of
its own sin, its own error, its own mistake, its
own life-long short coming, and to know that
even that seemingly-wrecked soul may be

accepted of God ! Oh, where shall one find
words wherewith to recognise, but ever so
feebly, that magnificent mercy !

When all is done, all lost — when hope itself
lies dead in the heart; to know that even
then this broken and contrite spirit will be accepted
of Him who sits upon the Great White
Throne, accepted as a sacrifice of value — to
have this knowledge is to be lost as much in
wonder as in gratitude.

Not at once may the broken in heart and
soul dare to lift eyes of hope and thankfulness.
Had we no other guide but instinct we should
remain prostrate, penitent, ' submitting as
Bishop Jeremy Taylor says, ' to such sadness
as God sends on us; patiently enduring the
Cross of Sorrow which He sends as our
punishment.'

Hope as we will, pray as we may, it can
never be other than an agony to pass through
this strait gate of repentance. The soul that
passes easily may suspect itself from the beginning.


Yet the Slough of Despond is not of the
same depth to each of us. It is the man or
woman who has sinned against light, in the

40—2

midst of light, who must suffer the more

keenly for having chosen darkness.

Thorhilda Theyn, kneeling that night in a
strange room, in a stranger's home — alone
and lonely, saddened, stricken, yearning, repentant,
had no cry but one — that cry she
uttered in the lowliest, the most utter self-abasement.


My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken
me ?'

Not long did she kneel there in the chill
silence before an answer came.

'Forsaken thee? Ah, no; I gave My life
for thee. I strove to constrain thee by My
Love — My Love alone ! How often have I
urged it upon thee, this Love of Mine, by how
many ways ! By the softness and ease of life
I urged it; by the sweetness of human love
and friendship I urged it; by the contrast of
the pain and loneliness of other lives I urged
it. In the stars of the midnight sky I
spoke ; in the flowers of the spring-time
I whispered ; each rustling leaf, each dew-bright
petal, was a plea ! . . . Forsake thee !
. . Never did I leave thy side for one
moment !

No; I stood at the door of thy heart and
knocked, but in vain.

1 My knocking was heard; but it was not
answered.

Not in so many words didst thou make
to Me the old reply, " Come again at a
more convenient season," but such was the
answer thy life made to Me. The result is at
hand.'

Yet the tear-blinded, heart-broken woman
knelt on. Though no comfort came, no help,
she would yet remain where alone comfort
could be.

And again, and ever again, came the cry :

My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken
me ?'

'at your soft touch of pity let me weep

Experience is like the stern-lights of a ship at sea, and
illuminates only the track we have passed over.'

Coleridge.

Happiness, dear ! Is that the rock on which
you have been stranded ?'

The speaker was a woman, young-looking
for her age ; and, without consideration, one
would add, beautiful.

It was not a face that people felt inclined to
analyse. The expression of goodness, of quietness,
of reserved strength, was of that unobtrusive
kind which people accept without
question. Few who knew Margaret Thurs-tone,
and had a trouble, could help confiding
in her ; though she did not always make such
confidence quite easy. Her tendency being
toward reticence, she had naturally a dread of

the unguarded and unrestrained outpourings
of others.

To-night she had had no fear ; no strain had
been put upon her forbearance. From first
to last she had listened to the story Thorhilda
Theyn had told with interest, with sympathy ;
yet with a growing wonder that a woman
whose instincts were evidently pure and good,
whose principles were upright, whose outlook
over men and things was both clear and wide
that one apparently so irreproachable could
yet have been so blinded, could yet have been
permitted to fall so far from her own first
estate as to be now lying, so to speak, in the
very dust, with ashes of humiliation on a
head that had always been held, perhaps unconsciously,
a little proudly above its fellows.
Certainly it was not quite easy to see beyond
and behind this strange and sad complication.


Mrs. Thurstone's life had been lived in the
world. Though her means were now narrow,
her way of living straitened, she had many
friends who did not forget that she was
the daughter of an admiral, the widow of
a cavalry officer who had fallen in the Crimea.

She herself at that time had not been twenty
years of age ; her husband had not completed
his thirtieth winter.

Her life since then had been not only pure
and blameless, but those alone who were
privileged to watch it closely knew of the
ceaseless self-sacrifice, the untiring devotion
with which she gave her time, her strength,
and such means as she had, to the service
of such as were yet poorer than herself. Her
name was not in the newspapers, she sat on no
committees, she organized no new and popular
ways of being philanthropic. Yet it may be
that she dared to think prayerfully of a time
when she would hear the words, ' / was an
I i lingered, and you gave Me meat.' 1

Still, as it has been intimated, her life was
not one of social seclusion. Her society was
too much valued by such as understood for
that to be possible. And so it was that she
was able to estimate to the full the gravity of
the thing that Thorhilda Theyn had done. A
woman less conversant with the way of the
modern world might have underrated the
matter altogether ; indeed, it is probable that
Miss Theyn had a little hoped to be consoled

by hearing some words that should betray
that a lighter and easier view might be taken ;
but if so her hope was disappointed.

Margaret Thurstone's memory was good ;
her affection enduring. Though so many
years had passed since she had counted Squire
Theyn's dead wife among her friends — a friend
older than herself by fourteen years, and possibly
weaker in some ways, yet a woman so
loving, so gentle, so full of all sweet human
kindliness that her memory could never
be recalled without a sigh — though all this
had been so long ago, Mrs. Thurstone had
received the daughter of her dead friend
almost without surprise, and certainly without
regret.

It was chiefly from her Aunt Averil that
Thorhilda had heard of Mrs. Thurstone ; and
though she had heard so little, that little had
always been of a nature to lead her to conclude
that her mother's friend would be likely to bethe
friend of anyone in real trouble. Soit
was that in that hour of desperation her
mind had been drawn to dwell with some
hope upon the possibility of finding a refuge
in the small house in Strafford Park where

Mrs. Thurstone lived ; and drawn so strongly
that no other alternative seemed to present
itself.

She had not regretted. Rather had the
thought forced itself upon her mind that even
in this hour of apparent rebellion a Guiding
Hand had been over her. Certainly she had
prayed for guidance, but it was with her
as with most of us : we are astonished, somewhat
appalled, when a prayer is directly and
visibly answered.

Some hours had now passed since that
twilight hour when Thorhilda had presented
herself at Mrs. Thurstone's door, pale, chilled,
silent, yet with a look of supplication so evident
on her beautiful face, that even before she
had made herself known she had been made to
feel most warmly welcome.

Do sit clown here, by the fire, please !' the
hostess had urged in a kind, homely way.
The cabman had been dismissed, tea ordered,
the lamp turned to its fullest light, the fire
stirred to its brightest blaze, and all before
the stranger's name was asked.

It was hardly needful to ask it, so strong
was the resemblance between Thorhilda Theyn

and her dead mother. Mrs. Thurstone felt no
surprise, showed none, nor yet any curiosity.

1 You shall tell me all when you have had
some tea. Forgive me for saying that I know
you have something to tell me — some trouble.
Well, whatever it is, my life has been one long
preparation for it, and without doubt He Who
has prepared me has led you here.'

And now, at nearly midnight, all was told
told from the very beginning. The first
weeks of doubt, of irresolution, the first dawning
of trouble, the strong temptation, the
almost overwhelming pressure, the dread
alternative — all was laid bare ; made so clear
that the girl felt as if she had never seen
her own position, her own place in the pitiful
drama, before. Yet she was far from pitying
herself; that was reserved for Mrs. Thurstone
to do. All her own feeling was of the nature
of blame.

And after this came the history of the way
in which light had come at last ; at least
light enough to prevent the consummation of
such a disaster as had doubtless led to a wreck
even more terrible than this stranding on
a strange rock in mid-ocean.

As a matter of course Damian Aldenmede's
name was mentioned, and this with such effort,
such betrayal, such evident suffering, as was
sufficiently convincing.

Margaret Thurstone did not hear the artist's
name for the first time, as she hastened to
say, hating all concealments, all semblance of
mystery, and useless suppression of simple
fact.

1 1 know Mr. Aldenmede,' she said at once.
I have known him many years.'

Did you know that he was at Ulvstan
Bight ?'

1 Yes ; I helped in recommending him to
go there — or at least to the north coast.
He needed bracing, time for recruiting
after the work he had done in the east of
London.'

I thought he had been much abroad ?'

4 So he had ; but that was earlier in his life
I mean it was before his East End work.
. . It was just after his sorrow — his most
crushing sorrow.'

There was silence in the little room fora
time. Mrs. Thurstone, silenced by reminiscences,
sat looking into the fire, her patient,

thoughtful, beautiful face the more beautiful
for its expression of rapt musing.

The face opposite to hers, though, perhaps,
strictly speaking, the lovelier of the two, and
by far the younger, was yet at the present
moment the less attractive to look upon.
Keen, overpowering, remorseful sorrow is
seldom altogether winning.

Could you tell me of Mr. Alclenmede's
trouble ?' Thorhilda asked at last, speaking
with a strange timidity.

Margaret Thurstone paused a moment
before answering.

There is no valid reason, none at all, why
I should not tell you all I know,' she replied
presently. ' But I think it would not be very
wise to tell you to-night.'

Thorhilda had no strength left wherewith to
beseech for the knowledge she so earnestly
desired to have. Personal grief will impair
the strongest curiosity, and there is nothing
like sorrow for softening the tone of even the
most argumentative.

Very skilfully Mrs. Thurstone turned the
conversation back to Thorhilda's own trouble.
It was not a difficult thing to do.

4 And you had no plan in coming here, dear?'
she said kindly. i No especial idea about your
future ?'

Nothing very clear.' the girl replied, forcing
the hot tears back. ' I knew that you were
working amongst the poor. I thought that

perhaps I might help you ; but then '

(this came with extreme difficulty) ' but then,
how shall I live ? . . . I have no money, no
talent. . . . AVhat can I do ?'

In Mrs. Thurstone's own mind there was
the certainty that Miss Theyn would very soon
go back to the Rectory at Yarburgh ; but
she had too much tactful sympathy to say
so at present. One thing, however, she must
say.

I think I understood that you had not
left your address, or any clue to your present
whereabouts, at Yarburgh?' she asked in a
studiously matter-of-fact tone.

But Thorhilda's conscience heard reproach
where none was.

I could not — no, I could not ! Besides,
for their sakes — for the sake of my uncle and
aunt — I thought it better not, far better. . . .
Believe me!' the girl besought earnestly.

Believe me, I weighed the matter all round,
thought of things on the one side and on the
other : and, knowing that blame could fall

7 3 O

upon me alone, I judged it better to do what
I have done. Had I left an address, it would
but have seemed like an invitation to — to them
to follow me, to persuade me — to persuade me
to do what I had solemnly promised to do,
and that after weeks, months — nay, I may
almost say years of indecision

Forgive me for interrupting you ; but that
all points to a too narrow environment. A
month in a wider social atmosphere would
have shown you your own mind.'

Perhaps so Thorhilda replied ; s but all
the same, I ought to have known my own
mind as matters stood — or at any rate I should
have more clearly recognised the fact that 1 did.
not know it!

There was another pause.

The fire was yet burning with a subdued
glow of cheerfulness ; the sleet now and then
clashed upon the window-panes; the wind was
moaning sadly in the casement. Above its
passing moan came the words, uttered slowly,
firmly, solemnly :

1 He that followeth Me calleth not in darkness.'
1

I believe that — I believe it with all my
heart, with all my soul,' Thorhilda answered,
while the hot tears dropped on her cheek.
. . ' Yet, yet it seems hard to follow when
the leading points only to pain — only to
suffering.'

To what seems pain. . . . Can you not
trust? Can you not see that all such sorrow
is certainly turned into joy, as He promised it
should be 1 While the other way — the wider
way — with all its flowers and all its joys,
quite as certainly leads on to darkness, and to
pain, and to bitterness and to misery. . . .
Oh ! when — when will human beings believe
that Christ brought light upon their human
path, that He came to bring it ? . . . Oh. what,
what is it in us — we know, we see, we believe,
and we turn away, always meaning to come
back to the narrower way some time. Meanwhile,
path leads to path, flowers lead on to
flowers. Then suddenly we awake — and allis
thorns and darkness.'

Xot suddenly — no, not suddenly,' 
interposed ; ' we see it coming — the

darkness. We feel the touch of the thorns
that are to wound so deeply. . . . and we turn
away. To the last we turn — to the last the
flowery way amuses us, distracts us, though
all the while we see the end.'

Yet it is something — nay, much, that we
do see it ? Are you not glad that you see
with open eyes at the present moment V

Glad ? . . . gladness for me ? . . . sight
for me V Thorhilda exclaimed in surprise. . . .
There is only one light — it is upon the past.
. . Is that enough for me? Is it enough
for any huninn being?'

4 It is as much as the most of us get — and
more than that : it is as much as the wisest
people hope for. Believe me, the happiest
state of all is a state of perfect trust — strong,
hopeful trust that all will 3-et be well. That
may seem like a platitude; but happy are the
people Avhose lives can be best expressed by a
succession of platitudes.'

1 How you repeat the word " happy !" Tome,
novi, it is the deadest word of a dead
language. . . . And yet, ah me ! I remember
one morning, not so long ago — it was but last
spring, in fact — when I stood by the sea, a

vol. nr. 41

blue, bright, sparkling sea, with a blue, bright,
shining sky overhead, and spent my forenoon
in wondering why I was so happy. . Is it
possible that morning was not a year ago?'
'And your mind dwelt all on happiness?'
i All on happiness — in perfect gratitude —
because I was so very happy. . . . And yet I
did not understand it; and afterward I began
to question it — then to place the unhappiness
of others in a sort of balance, to weigh their
patient, struggling, unselfish life against my
own selfish and self-seeking one.'
1 And the result ?'

The result was simply dissatisfaction.'
It should have gone deeper than that.'
4 It has gone deeper now — too late /'
Too late \ And you not yet twenty-three !'
Age has little to do with it. A vessel
shipwrecked on its first voyage or the last —
where is the difference to the drowned crew —
the hull upturned upon the barren rock ?
Shipwreck is shipwreck, when the vessel is
wrecked utterly. And the analogy holds
good — a human life wrecked at twenty or at
sixty, what matters ! The few years are
nothing !'

Pardon me ! They are everything, as you
will yet see. But I will not speak of that now.
I want to help you more closely, more surely;
and to do that I must see what your present
wishes are. And let me say, once for all, how
glad I am, how grateful, that you should have
had such trust in me as to come here and let
me help you as best I may — it is even flattering,
though I know you do not mean it for
that. Let that idea go with some others.
It is late now ; but even before \ sleep I
would like to have some idea of what I can do
for you. . . . First, in the early morning, I
must send a telegram to Canon Godfrey.'

4 You must do that?'

Yes, certainly. Think of him — the torture
of uncertainty he is undergoing!'

But when Mrs. Thurstone looked up, Miss
Cheyne was not thinking. She was lying
back in her easy-chair, white, pallid, unconscious.


How thoughtless I have been — how very
thoughtless !' Mrs. Thurstone said, reproaching
herself. ' I forgot her sleepless night, her
long journey, her terrible anxiety. . Oh me,
when will one learn to be human?'

41—2

friend, I know not which way I must look
For comfort, being as I am, opprest. 5

Wordsworth.

The snow was still falling, the wind still
wailing up the narrow suburban street. Indoors,
lamps were being lighted and curtains
drawn, though it was yet but three in the
afternoon. People were glad to make believe
that the night had come, or rather the evening
— the long, bright, warm, English winter's
evening — not the least favourable time for discovering
and enjoying the peculiar happiness
of English home-life — a life that has a
flavour all its own, and only to be discovered
after acquaintance with life as it is lived elsewhere.


It is not to be wondered over that happy

English people should return to the scene of
their happiness a little vain, a little supercilious
perhaps — and as a rule, very well contented ;
the latter is not the least of the good effects
produced by change of scene.

Canon Godfrey had known what it was to
spend a winter abroad, to shiver in the marble
corridors of Florentine palaces, to linger on
the sunny side of the street so long as there
was a warm ray to tempt him, then to go indoors
to a careless room — to walls glittering
with mirrors, and gilding, and faded frescoes.
Somewhere there would be a big white china
stove — very handsome, perhaps — but being so
very unfamiliar, would certainly also be unattractive,
and less equal to the task of
persuading him of its use than of its architectural
beauty.

The Canon was a man sufficiently sensitive
to such things ; and being given — far more
than the world about him at Yarburgb knew
to testing himself, his strength of soul, by
various self-denials and asceticism, he had
come to know how very keen was his appreciation
of what people call domestic comfort.
A man who had simply gone on taking life as

it came, enjoying all his meals with no more
than the ordinary restraint prescribed by
social usao'e, who had indulged in the luxuries
of fire and warm clothing whenever these
might seem to be needed, who had accepted all
the services and attentions common to his
position without question — such a one would
have known far less of himself, of his own
weakness, than the Canon knew; would have
suffered far less from strife before his falls, or
what he counted such, and from compunction
afterward. And whatever may be said for or
against the view he took, and the things done
and suffered in consequence of that view, this
at least is certain, he kept his inner life most
certainly alive, his soul's life was at least as
vivid as his outer life.

Was this double existence the reason — or
one reason, why his life was being lived so
rapidly ?

He did not know how rapidly it was going.
Suspicion had passed away with the momentary
sense of physical failure that gave it
birth.

Yet now and again suspicion returned —
never causelessly.

This afternoon, travelling between London
and Peterborough, he knew that there had
been a time of oblivion — ' the oblivion of
sleep,' some might have suggested ; but
though ordinary sleep may undoubtedly
cause a man's pulse to beat more faintly,
it does not so impair the action of his heart
that the pulse ceases altogether, and only
resumes its working after a very convulsion
of the forces of nerve and brain.

The Canon, coming to himself after such a
moment, recognised once more all that had
happened — and the recognition was made
with most reverential wonder.

How many times will it be thus V he asked
himself. ' How much of nerve-force is therein
me, to enable me to fight with death thus
and overcome V

It is not my doing — this returning. . . .
In my powerless brain there is no effort — no
desire. . . . Life strives with death ; and so
long as God wills life will overcome. . . ,
Some day — it may be soon —-there will come
the moment when God will decree that the
strife shall end otherwise. . . . And I . . .
I do not murmur. I do not dread that

moment — not with more than the ordinary
human and natural dread of the unknown !
Were it not for others, I should be even glad
to go.'

He did not, even to himself, admit the
fact that it was these same ' others ' who
had so largely taken the joy, the strength,
from his past life, who were so certainly
helping to make him weary of the present.

Naturally his thought turned almost at
once to the niece of whom he had been
thinking all day — nay, for many days. Xot
once had a reproach darkened his desire to
meet her again — to console her. It may be
that he alone knew the depth of her great
need for consolation. Others might blame —
doubtless were blaming, even then ; but even
upon this blame of others Hugh Godfrey was
not drawn to dwell.

Love itself does not always enable people
to understand, to exonerate the one beloved.
There must be something beyond — and that
something is the divine love which is named
charity. ' It is charity that beareth all
things ; loveth all things ; and charity never
falleth.'

1 1 will be gentle and passing gentle,'

the fierce Sir Basin resolved within himself
at a moment of somewhat fierce temptation.
And because his word is so simple
and natural we know it will be kept.

Hugh Godfrey's resolve was of a different
nature,

It was a holy thought brought to his
memory by the sudden sight of a cup embossed
with a simple spiritual scene, that
enabled the knight in the poem to overcome.
It was a holy thought, brought to his mind by
a book carried always in his pocket, that
enabled Canon Godfrey to confront a weighty
moment with the strength and calmness he
desired. The chapter in the little book was entitled
' Of Familiar Friendship with Jesus
And the first words of the chapter were these :

i When Jesus is' present, all is well, and nothing seems
difficult ; but when Jesus is absent, everything becomes
hard.'

1 When Jesus is present J Canon Godfrey
repeated to himself at the moment when most
he needed the strength of the idea. So that
afterward the hour seemed far from having
been one of supreme difficulty.

Mrs. Thurstone's little room was bright
and cheerful . She herself was quieter than
usual in her manner — this by reason of the
force of her strong sympathy. Thorhilda
rose to her feet with a little cry that had
in it as much of pleasure as of pain. The
Canon's kiss on her forehead, calm and
tender and full of all forgiveness, was what
she expected, not what she deserved. Margaret
Thur stone could not help some wonder,
perhaps even some slight touch of enviousness.
Her own life was so lone ; it had been
lonely so long. Yet it was not of herself
that she was consciously thinking. The
Canon's face, the pain written there, the long-suffering,
could not be hidden from one who
had herself suffered so deeply. Ah ! how
could anyone cause fresh sorrow, fresh wounding
to a man so good, so generous as this
man seemed to be ? And all too surely this
new event must be a terrible thing in his
sight. For awhile she left the uncle and
niece alone ; and the first few moments were
passed in silence, save for the sound of
subdued weeping.

i I will let her cry for awhile,' he had said

to himself as he sat there by his niece, holding
her hot, tremulous hand in his own. Then,
all unawares, his own tears began to fall ; and
Thorhilda, seeing this, knew misery more
bitter than any she had known yet.

■ Uncle Hugh ! Uncle Hush !' she cried
passionately, falling at his feet as she spoke ;
1 I cannot bear this — I cannot. '

Xo, my child,' he replied ; ' I. do not
wonder that you cannot, since these are probably
the first tears you have caused anyone
to shed since you were born. . . . Forgive
them ; and believe this — they are tears of
gladness quite as much as of sorrow. And
the sorrow is as much for you as for myself
nay, more. All day I have been thinking
of what you must have suffered in secret
before — before you took such a step as this.
. . Thorda, Thorda, how was it that you
could nofc confide in me ? How was it ?
Could you think for one moment that even
undue persuasion would be used ? Could
you think that, in a matter so important as
your marriage, we should wish to influence
you in the least degree in any direction to
which your own inclination was opposed ?

I cannot understand — no, even yet I cannot
understand !'

There was no reproach in his tone, but the
pain was unmistakable, and it was some time
before any answer could be made.

I cannot understand myself, Uncle Hugh,'
the girl said, with sobs and tears. ' I cannot
comprehend now how I could be tempted by
mere external things so far. But I was
tempted — tempted to sell my soul — it was
nothing less than that, that I might be the
mistress of Ormston Magna. That was my
dream. Of myself, as Mr. Meredith's wife,
I would not and could not think — not until it
was too late. Then it was forced upon me.
The letters of congratulation, the sayings
that dropped from people's lips — nay, the
very books and newspapers that I read, there
was a time when everything seemed to force
upon me all that married life, without love,
really meant. But all too late. I looked
about for some way of escape. I thought of
it night and day till my brain would think no
more. . I did not think at last. . . .
It seemed to be some one else who was
listening to your sermon, some one else

within me, yet not in sympathy with me —
with what I was about to do — who said :
These words are for you : it is you who
are exchanging your soul, selling it for the
mess of pottage that is offered to you in the
guise of wealth, and ease, and luxury. Take
it, and it shall be dust and ashes in your
mouth, and you shall find no place of repentance
— no, not though you seek it carefully
with tears." '

Another time of silence passed, but it was
sufficiently eloquent silence. The girl felt
all the forgiveness, all the comprehension,
all the compassion she so greatly needed.
Yet there was weight and heart-ache and
dread behind.

It was she who spoke first.

Don't let us talk more of the past than is
needful, Uncle Hugh,' she entreated. ' You
do forgive me all that I have done — the pain I
have caused you, the disgrace ?'

1 Forgive, my child ! . . . Yes, as I hope
to be forgiven. . . . Do you quite forgive
me?'

For what ?

'' For want of insight — nay, for worse than

that. . . . Let me confess once for all, that
I wished that } T ou might care for Percival
Meredith ; that I wished to see you there, at
Ormston, happy, free from care, in a position
you seemed created to fill. Doubt dawned
upon me very slowly. The words I said
in the church were said half against my will.
They were not my own words. I spoke
them to you, and you know that I did,
but I was compelled to speak them.'

1 knew it. . I knew also that you could
not have said them privately.'

< You felt that ?'

Intimately. . . . And now again, let me
ask you to think more of what is to be. . I
have been thinking of it — thinking ceaselessly,
intensely. And now I trust my way is
clear.'

It is quite clear to me.'

Thorhilda's face, the sudden change in the
expression of it, showed that she apprehended
the idea that was in her uncle's mind.

What is clear to you?' she asked, in altered
tones.

That you must return to Yarburgh with
me tomorrow.'

Again there was a long pause, more weighty,
more troubled than before.

You have thought of that — you have even
considered it possible ! . Oh, Uncle
Hugh!'

Do not think that I am speaking selfishly,
still less carelessly. . . . Believe me, I have
thought out the matter on every side. Do
what we will, there will be pain for you, pain
for me. I am persuaded that what I urge will
be for the best in every way.'

And then with clearness, with eloquence
even, with affection, the Canon went on to
unfold, his views.

Miss Theyn listened, wishing passionately
to be convinced. To return to the Rectory —
to the one home she had known and loved
with the love of the untravelled, the inexperienced,
was the one bright vision she
had.

But instinct, strong within her, spoke unpalatable
truths. ' If you return now' it
said, ' you will draw down upon those who
are dearest to you the odium, the gossip,
the scandal of a whole neighbourhood with
fresh acrimony. Remain here, devote yourself

to some high and noble work, thus
proving your repentance, and inevitably you
will regain for yourself, and for others, the
belief in your integrity which is the secret of
all force in the nerves of the social life of
each one of us. Unhappily for you, you
have let in the air of suspicion. The work
of reducing it must be the work of years ;
and that work will be best done away from
the scene of your fall. It would be presuming
upon power that you have not to
return at the present moment.'

Thus convinced herself — though all against
her desire — it was impossible but that this
erring and suffering woman's language should
be all-convincing. Canon Godfrey could only
bow his head in token of his sorrowful
yielding.

I will come back again, Uncle Hugh ; do
not fear but that I shall come back — but not
now; it cannot be now. And when I do, we
must be prepared. My coming back will
have much pain in it — double pain for me,
because I must bear yours as well as my own.
Even yet I do not comprehend all that I
must suffer. The heart-searching, the repentance

that must come before myself can
be restored to myself, will alone show me
the strife of the days to be. And much of
that suffering must be in enduring the judgment
of others ; righteous judgment, doubtless,
but not the less difficult to bear. Yet it
must be borne : even I, with all my inexperience,
know that. Look at the greater
biographies of our own literature. Does
Shelley's splendid poetry cover his cruelty to
Harriet Westbrook ? Is Carlyle's domestic
misery quite lost sight of — as it ought to be —
when we look at the shelves groaning under
the work of a long, and suffering, and resolute
life ? No, Uncle Hugh. Once, long
ago, you preached a sermon on retribution,
and in that sermon you quoted these words :

'"As every body hath its shadow, so every sin hath its
punishment."

The words struck me then, when no very
definite sin had cast its shadow over my
soul. Now they seem as if they might
have been written for me, and for me
only.'

The Canon listened, with sorrow enough,
but also with comprehension.

vol. in. 42

Tell me,' he said at last — ' tell me the
details of your plan. I suppose you are
intending to help Mrs. Thurstone in some
work of hers?'

Yes; Mrs. Thurstone is willing to teach
me, if it be possible for me to remain with her,
or rather in the Infirmary where she spends so
much of her life. . I have everything to
learn.'

The Canon understood. Here was a chance
for him to make it impossible ; but his soul
was not low enough of stature to enable him
to pass by ways like this.

He could only silently watch his niece for
awhile. 'Everything to learn!' Did she
know all that her own word included? Did
she, who had never known what it was to be
called in the morning before her own bell
rang, who had been accustomed to retire at
any hour in the evening when she might feel
fatigued — did she even dream of what it might
be to sit all night, night after night, in the
ward of a hospital? Had she any save the
most vague idea of what the life of a professional
nurse must be ? Had she taken
account of the weariness, the disgust the

painful sights and sounds to which she must
become accustomed, before she could be of the
smallest use?

He knew that she had not — that she had no
data to go upon which would enable her to
arrive at the conclusions that were disturbing
his own vision of her chosen future. Chosen?
no, as he knew too well, it was a future
from which ever)' nerve was recoiling with a
dread little short of anguish.

His affection, never greater than now, his
intimate knowledge of the girl, so wrought
upon and within him, that his anguish was
no less than hers. And all the while his
heart was crying out against the idea of his
lonely return, of the loneliness of the days to
be. His wife was there at Yarburgh, awaiting
him — true. And her loneliness, her unhappiness,
would be added to the weight of his
own.

You cannot take a dog or bird to your
heart, keep it there for years, and then lose
it, but you shall find an aching gap. How
much keener the aching when you wake to
miss a sympathetic human being, one who has
loved you, trusted to you for everything, rested

49 2

upon } t out thought, your energy, your providence,
for everything that you were glad
to give, and that other heart was glad to
receive ! Such wrenching asunder are amongst
the bitterest and most abiding pains humanity
can know.

The words of the wisest consoler are fewest
in the presence of such sorrow as this. So
Mrs. Thurstone felt when the moment of
parting came. She stood by, yet a little
apart, till the last. Then she came forward.


1 Will you leave your niece to me, Canon
Godfrey? Will you trust me, believing that
I will do my best for her?'

The words were uttered in that peculiar
voice, every intonation of which tells of the
long chastening of sorrow ; and beside that,
there was the gentle charm of the gentlest
womanhood.

'Can I trust you?' he asked, in a broken
way, full of all effort. ' The question is, can
I thank you? I feel that I cannot.'

Mrs. Thurstone smiled.

4 You know how little one needs to be
thanked,' she said. * How is it that words are

so inadequate — that — that other things are so
much?'

'Ah!' the Canon replied; 'how is it, indeed?
We know nothing yet, nothing of
each other, nothing of the language we employ,
nothing of the significance of every
look, every glance, every gesture. We know
all about the internal economy of every beehive
in the land, every ant's nest, every fish's
pebble-and-weed constructed bridal-bower. Of
ourselves we know nothing — nothing but this,
that one day we shall know.'

Was it the light of that other day that was
in his eyes as he went out? The look on his
face was calm, resolute, as if he had determined
that all sadness should be subdued. There
were no last words ; the final parting was brief,
silent. Miss Theyn went to her own room to
shed her tears in silence, and they were very
bitter. Did she yet comprehend all that she
had done?

1 SHALL WE SEE TO IT, I AND YOU ?'

He looked at her as a lover can ;
She looked at him as one who awakes ;
The past was a sleep, and her life began.'

Robert Browning.

It often happens in this bleak north country
of ours that we have a glorious foretaste
of spring some time in the month of February.
Soft rains fall, the grass looks greener, the
skies look bluer, the air all at once grows soft
and warm as any air of June. And how one
rejoices in it while it lasts, coming, as it
usually does, between two severe winters ! The
winter to come, as we know too well, will
be almost as long as the winter gone, and
certainly as chill. Invalids venture out into
sunny valleys, the tenderest infants are taken
abroad; young and old seem to rejoice as
if something had happened of a nature

peculiarly pleasurable. And all this because
the sun shines and the air is warm. Do we
even now clearly recognise how certainly cold
and dulness are of the nature of pain ?

The lanes between Yarburgh and Ormston
Magna are very much like certain Devonshire
lanes. They are narrow, uneven, and
they lie between deep hedgerows that in
summer are all luxuriant. Though they be
brown and bare in winter, they have still a
charm of their own, a charm not wanting in
either form or colour. The last year's bramble-leaves
turn crimson in the pale sun, or show
touches of amber and russet, of gold and
green ; late grasses quiver; the hemlock seeds
spread gray white discs in the upper hedgerow,
giving you a sky-line of wonderful
picturesqueness. Then, too, the bare trees, in
all their beauty of branching and curving,
seem to claim new attention because of the
sun-bright blue behind and above ; and no
patch of green, or gray, or cream-coloured
lichen loses force for the need of light. It
is on such days as these that we begin to
recognise all that light must mean in the
lands where light is a perpetual and natural

thing. And such light ! Only the eyes that
have wakened to the glory and intensity of
the rays of southern suns can know all that
we owe to the beneficence of light.

Yet a February day in England, such a
day as we have spoken of, is not a time to be
passed without enjoyment.

'It is simply glorious!' Miss Douglas was
saying, in her clear, loud, yet most musical
voice, to a gentleman she had met sauntering
along Langrick Lane in the middle of a
February afternoon. It may be that her
voice was more musical than usual, the
sparkle of her eyes brighter, the colour on
her lip and cheek deeper and lovelier because
the gentleman was Mr. Percival Meredith.

It had so happened that these two had not
met since what was spoken of in certain circles
as ' the catastrophe.'

Perhaps it was not altogether so unsuitable
a word as it might seem at first glance
to a scholar to be. Without doubt, Miss
Theyn's flight from home was of the nature
of i an overthrow of ' a great calamity of
a violent convulsion ' in humanity if not in
nature.

As a matter of course, by one name, or by
another, the occurrence had been the great
topic of conversation in the neighbourhood
of Yarburgh ever since the fatal-seeming day
on which it happened. And equally, as a
matter of course, different people took different
views of the affair. It was sad to note how
few judged charitably.

Perhaps it might be sadder still to note
how few suspended their judgment, how few
refused to pronounce any final verdict at all.
And it was significant that in nineteen cases
out of twenty the blame was thrown solely
upon Miss Theyn.

It seemed as if it were impossible that a
man still young in a certain sense, undoubtedly
handsome — ' handsomer than ever,' so
close observers were saying — and undoubtedly
rich, it was impossible that any blame whatever
should lie with one so favoured on every
side. This may seem a crude way of stating
the truth; but not Virgil himself, with his
dainty ten lines a day, could add to the truthfulness.


Inevitably Miss Douglas understood; she
had understood all along the line of this

strange and painful matter. And she knew
Percival Meredith almost better than she knew
herself. She had much in her favour.

It is simply glorious !' she said, meeting
Mr. Meredith in Langrick Lane, and r w singing
her crimson parasol with its deep border of
cream-coloured lace behind her head, so that
only the softest reflection of the soft February
sun should lie upon her face. She was looking
well, as she knew — a source of strength,
even of genius, to the plainest woman in
the world. Once be assured that you are
looking your own best, and you have nothing
to fear from the handsomest woman in your
neighbourhood.

So much lies in consciousness — nay, much
more than this. It is only when you get
beyond being conscious at all that you can
afford to forget, to ignore. By that time
you have got beyond much else, much that
can never trouble you, or gladden you again.

Gertrude Douglas was still in the time of
gladness, of hope, of perturbation ; her manner
betrayed all three.

Percival Meredith was not slow to understand.
Something he had understood before

to-day. He replied to the rather gushing
oreetino- of Miss Douglas with the air of
well-bred calm she had so long admired.
His dark eyes looked darker and more inscrutable
than ever ; his fine figure seemed
taller, more compact. He had the demeanour
of a man unembarrassed, disengaged,
thoroughly master of himself.

1 Yes, it is perfect weather for England,'
he said, and Miss Douglas made quick
reply.

But I understood that you were not going
to spend your spring in England. We were
told that you were going to Borne.'

Ah, so I have heard before ! . Why
Rome, I wonder ? I have been there so
often!'

Then you had not thought of it ?'

w Xot for a moment.'

You had not intended to leave home ?'

Xot at present ; certainly not. . . . Why
should I ?'

Why should you ?' Miss Douglas asked,

shrugging her shoulders in a way that would

have been pretty had her shoulders been

lighter. ' Why should you, indeed ? but

that everybody expected it of you. It was
the only decent thing to be done.'

Percival Meredith was not quite unaccustomed
to what is termed ' chaff ;' nay, it said
much for his education in that direction that
he bore Miss Douglas's insinuations not only
without wincing, but with a certain amount
of enjoyment.

I begin to comprehend,' he said, speaking
with an affectation of faintness, exhaustion
; yet this suggested, rather than overdone.


'You begin to comprehend! What have
you been doing all this while ?'

What have I been doing ? . . . Oh, well,
various things ! . . . I have had my portrait
taken.'

1 You have ? . at this juncture ? . . .
What a confession ! . . . For the next fiancee,
I suppose ?'

Yes, for the next,' Mr. Meredith replied,
still with the air of one striving against
extreme over-fatigue. ' The next, or the
one after that,' he added. ' Who can say ?'

Miss Douglas laughed — a long, low, cheery,
pleasant laugh — and Percival Meredith listened

with something more than amusement. Lone:
ago he had noted, for his own private remembrance,
how pleasant a laugh that of Gertrude
Douglas would be for a man to have at his
fireside whenever he should care to hear it !
At this moment it seemed pleasant than
ever.

When Miss Douglas spoke again there was
a decided change in the tone of her voice ;
it was gentler, more serious ; her large, dark,
beautiful eyes were dilated with a new interest,
a new compassion in the expression of them.
Never before had she been so winning. Percival
Meredith felt his heart beating with a new
emotion as he listened.

I am glad. I am so glad you are taking
it all so beautifully ;' and there was genuine
sympathy in her every accent. ' Do forgive
me she continued. ' I have thought so
much of you, wondered how you would bear,
how you would really bear ; not how you
could be seeming to keep up before the
world : of that I had no fear ; but of how
you were enduring what I knew must be such
sorrow ! . . . Oh, I must say it — Thorda
was my friend, is my friend, but she was cruel !'

For a moment, one silent undecided moment,
Mr. Meredith's face wore a shade of
sadness.

1 You are right ; it was cruel,' he admitted.
And it was gratuitous cruelty. Even then,
at that last moment, Miss Theyn might have
gained her freedom, if that was what she
wanted, by steps less painful to me. . . .
But there ! you have betrayed me into breaking
my resolve, my most strong resolve. I
had not wished to mention that name to anyone.'


'How good of you ; and how wise! . . .
But — but I am not " anyone," surely ?'

I believe that though you are Miss Theyn's
friend, Miss Douglas, you yet have some feeling
of friendship for me. I trust I may take
so much consolation to myself.'

This was said so impressively, with so
much meaning behind, that the rosy glow on
Miss Douglas's face deepened to a sudden
blush.

If you will let me be your friend, really
your friend, well, I can only say that my
life will be happier than it has been for a long
while. . It has not been too happy of late.'

Mr. Meredith paused, not startled, not
amused, but wondering once more whither
things were tending.

1 Then it is a compact he said presently,
meeting Miss Douglas's rather anxious but
still beautiful eyes as he sj:>oke. ' It is a
compact. If I need a friend, or rather friendship,
I am to look to you. And on your
side, will you say the same ?'

4 Indeed, I will, and gladly! . . . There is
more I could say, but I will not now.'

Xo ? Have I been thoughtless ? Have
I kept you standing here too long ? Pardon
me.'

Has it been long ? Surely not ? . . . But
I will say "good-bye"'

1 Say, rather, au revoir. I must see you
again soon — very soon.'

Jfc Jfc 4B> Afc Jfc

W *J»* 1y •R' ^p

So they parted, there in the white sunny
lane. Gertrude Douglas was so happy, so
hopeful, so excited in her hopeful happiness
that, meeting Mrs. Kerne a quarter of an
hour later, even that lady's curt ungraciousness
had no really subduing effect.

1 Tell me about dear Thorda ?' she had

bored in a manner even more effusive than
usual. ' Do tell me all about her ; do tell
me she is happy.'

1 You know as much of " dear Thorda " as
I do ; and in all likelihood a great deal more,'
was Mrs. Kerne's brusque reply.

It was not Miss Douglas's way to take
offence at anybody or anything. With more
true skilfulness than she might have been
supposed to possess, she smoothed down the
too-obvious angles of the other's mood, and
contrived to extract some information that
she had real J y desired to have ; for the two
letters she had received from Thorhilda had
both of them been too brief, too reticently
sad, to be quite satisfying to one who had so
keen a love of detail as Gertrude Douglas.
Besides, if she had a genuine affection for
anyone, that person was Thorhilda Theyn ;
and unquestionably her love had been strained
of late.

Of course she still went to the Rectory,
but less frequently than before. The Canon
was still the same courteous and thoughtful
host, but change had passed upon him. He
was older-looking, sadder, more silent, and

though he did not wish to betray that the
presence of his niece's most intimate friend
was a pain to him, he could not quite hide
the fact. Mrs. Godfrey made small pretence
of hiding her feeling, her suffering. At first
she had burst into tears every time Miss
Douglas entered the house, and still she
would sit quietly weeping over her embroidery,
making no effort to check her
abundant tears. Miss Douglas could bear
much, but even for her the Rectory was not
now attractive.

But after that February day her thought
was less drawn to the Rectory. Disappointment
had not taught her the unwisdom of
hoping, of darting thought and hope far into
the unknown future. Ah, well, life is not
all disappointment ; and as the Italian proverb
has it, ' The world is for him that has
patience.'

vol. in. 43

LOVE, HOPE, FEAR, FAITH, THESE MAKE
HUMANITY.'

I dwell alone— I dwell alone, alone,

Whilst full my river flows down to the sea.
Gilded with flashing boats

That bring no friend to me :
O love-songs, gurgling from a hundred throats,
O love-pangs, let me be.'

Christina Rossetti.

That spring was not an easy or a nappy
time for Barbara Burdas, yet the girl had
never been more brave, more bright.

She hardly knew herself how much of the
brightness was due to the presence of ' Nan
Tyas's baby,' as some people called it, others
speaking of it as ' Bab's Ildy,' which perhaps
pleased her better. Bab was a true child-lover,
and to feel the little one's arms clinging
about her neck, to watch the big blue eyes
that looked into hers so wonderingly, so

gravely, to note the growing intelligence of
the frequent smile — all this was as new inspiration
in Bab's life, and caused her to
double efforts that had certainly been sufficiently
strenuous before.

But, then, effort had not been so greatly
needed. Barbara was not now in the darkness
she had once been in. She read all such
books and papers and magazines as came in
her way ; and as we all know, when once
the appetite for reading is established, it
seems as if, by some miracle, aliment more
or less is provided, enough for the keeping
up of the appetite, if not enough for its
satisfaction. The post brought to Barbara
such parcels as oft enough gave her happiness
for a whole week or more — pure, untainted,
sterling happiness. And now it was
beginning to be more than this. She w T as
already able to perceive that the world, or a
sufficient portion of it, was awake to the
fact that the British fisheries were decreasing ;
w r ere threatened by injury in the way of
trawling : by hurt in the way of fishing at
harmful seasons, in unsuitable grounds. If
writers were thus writing of these things, if

43—2

members of Parliament were thus speaking
of them, then surely down even in such poor
little homes as her own the results would be
seen.

Ay, so they may said old Ephraim, taking
his pipe from his mouth, and knocking out
the ashes with the slow deliberation he had
used for so many, many years, performing the
act always as if a little regret attached toit,
a little solemnity. ' So we may see the
good on it — an yet, no, not us, not me for
certain ; and mebby not even you, Bab ; no,
nor Jack, nor Steve even ; whoa can say ;
they're that slow, them Parlement foiiks.
They don't do nothing', so Ah've heard said,
till they're fairly forced, an' then it's again the
grain, so as it's not done hearty, nor rightly,
after all. Ah well! poor folks don't complain
; 'isn't right as they should. Ah've
heard mal greet-grandfather say, him as died
afore this centherry was born — Ah've heard
him say as 'twere a bad sign when poor folks
began wi' complaining'. An' so Ah think,
Bab ; so Ah think ! Ah never holds wi' no
complaining' !'

And Barbara smiled, and set her grandfather's

supper of boiled milk and bread on a
little coarse cream)' damask cloth, and raked
the ashes of the coal fire together, and then
threw in a little log of wood so that he might
go to bed in all the comfort of warmth and
satisfaction.

1 1 like to hear you say that, grandfathers
she said cheerfully, sitting down beside him,
and taking her own supper ; ' I like to hear
you speak so ; not as you did this morning.
Why, you almost broke my heart!'

The old man, hearing his granddaughter's
words, was visibly affected. He put down
his spoon, turned a little in his chair, and
rested his poor old head upon his hand, as if
a sudden aching had rendered it insupportable.
Unhappily, Barbara understood it all,
understood his wishing to be cheery and
bright. And yet she had touched upon a
point better avoided. It is those who seldom
make mistakes of this kind who suffer most
when sudden indiscretion betrays them.

1 An* there ! I've done it again,' she cried,
kneeling down upon the brick floor, and putting
her uplifted hands upon the old man's
knees. ' I've been foolish an' thoughtless

again. But I never meant it, grandfather ; I

never did. I thought as how you'd only

been depressed this morning when you talked

of going to sea again ; of leaving' the place

where you've stayed now this thirty years an'

never dreaming of leaving it no more. I know

you haven't ; an' therefore, oft enough when

I've been straitened for the rent — or worse

still, for the rate — I've never let you know for

fear it might unsettle you. These are terrible

times, I know ; though I've done my best

that non under this roof save myself should

know quite how terrible they were. If milk's

been scarce, and butter scarcer yet, why we've

never known the need of a loaf of bread ; an'

if the tea's been weak at times, why we've

always had a bit left in the caddy. An' all

round us there's been folk so much worse off

than we are ; nay, I doubt if some of them's

touched the bottom yet. I know more than I

care to say, grandfather, an' I don't wish to

say no more. No ! I'll go on coin' the very

best I can, only so as you'll go on too ; just

putting up with things ; taking the soup

when it isn't much to speak of, an' not minding'

when the butter won't go on to the end of the

week — just been' patient, as you've alius
been. Say you will, grandfather ? My heart's
ached all day with the few words you let drop
this morning. . . . You didn't mean them,
did you ?'

The old man was trembling, a tear or two
dropped over his poor withered cheeks, but
he tried to put away Bab's fears as well as he
could without making any definite promise.

We'll see, honey ; we'll see !' he replied,
turning to the table again, and pretending to
care greatly for his supper.
Barbara was not deceived.
The next few days were passed as people
pass the time in a house when one is
threatened with some fatal illness. No word
w T as spoken willingly that might even lead to
the dreaded topic. Naturally this made a
kind of strain, only discernible by the increased
gentleness of deed and word ; the
continued and sensitive consciousness of the
love that existed, and seemed to be growing
tenderly and sadly growing because of fear
and pain. What would the end be ?

All Barbara's other troubles seemed to sink
under this for the time being. It was a long

while now since she had seen Hartas Theyn.
One evening, sauntering to the cliff-top in the
twilight, with little Ildv in her arms, she had
met him suddenly in the cleft between the
rocks where the beck came tumbling down to
the sea over the rough boulders. He was
looking very pale for a man who was now, as
Barbara knew, literally working on a farm
from morn till night. Canon Godfrey had
told her of how he had offered to help the
Squire's son to begin life afresh in some other
direction.

1 But he is wise, very wise.' the Canon said,
speaking with a warmth and emphasis that
had been conspicuously absent from his words
and ways of late. ' Hartas is doing the best
thing he could do in devoting himself heart
and soul to the only kind of work he knows
anything about. And he is not sparing
himself. It is true that he has every incentive.
. . .'

Then the Canon stopped suddenly. In
speaking of incentives he had in his mind the
encumbered condition of the Squire's estate ;
the possibility that hard work and carefulness,
with some knowledge, some forethought,

might do much to bring again some of the old
prosperous state of things upon which the
owners of Garlaff had presumed so long.
But then another idea made him pause, and
then add, with meaning :

Every inducement but one : that one would
perhaps have been the strongest of all! . •. .
I am proud of him that he is trying to live as
if it were his V

Barbara understood, as the Canon saw, but
she was not the happier for that brief interview.
Perhaps the fact that during absence,
during silence, during much loneliness, with
pain of many kinds, Barbara's [love had gone
on 'growing, her regard deepening, perhaps
this very fact prevented her views from
changing, as she knew that Hartas was
waiting for them to change.

Did he know, did he dream, did anyone
dream of the terrible hours of terrible temptation
through which the girl had to pass ?
Yet she had not wavered, and Hartas was
quick to see that she had not. He seemed
very celui outwardly ; still the surprise of
seeing Barbara had naturally caused him some
perturbation. Instinctively he raised his hat,

and might even have passed on, but that Bab
was blushing and stopping, as if expecting
that she must stay to speak all against her
will.

It was like a meeting between strangers,
so great was the change, so marked and
certain the growth on either side. It is not
always that love will stand such alterations.

4 No change, no change ! Not but time's added grace
May blend and harmonize with its compeers.

But 'tis a change, and I detest all change,
And most a change in aught I loved long since.'

So Paracelsus stoke, nay speaks (that is the
best of the friends that live between the covers
of the books on our shelves ; they do not cease
to speak save when we cease to listen) ; so said
the suffering man to whom even the most
natural changes in the life of his woman-friend
were intolerable. So we say, many of
us ; and as we speak we know the love is
dead, the friendship cold.

But if there be a root to the matter, a true
root planted rather in the rock of eternal
verity than in the shifting sand of passing
emotion, then no change can hurt the love so

growing ; for change must mean advance, and
such advance must mean an ever-increasing
attractiveness. There is no security for human
affection like to that which is planted in
Divine love.

If men and women who are of the earth
earthy be drawn to such as show that some
small ray of the light that never was on sea or
land has penetrated into their soul, how shall
it be with such as are praying always that the
same liofht may be vouchsafed to themselves ?

Only a few words were exchanged, and
these quite common place ; yet the meeting
Alas not without its effect upon the future.

1 will go on waiting,' Hartas said to himself
as he went homeward to the Grange.
And Bab, returning with heavier step to the
Forecliff, said —

1 More than ever I see I was right. How
he's changed! It's hardly himself! . A
man such as he is now to marry a bait-gatherer
!'

Then on that painful string the sad music
of her thought paused awhile. And the
next variations had each one a refrain, and it
was this :

Yet, after all, will anyone ever love him
more ? will anyone ever be to him all that I
might have been ? . Oh me ! How I could
have loved him f

And ever and again through all the strain
of poverty and fear of want, and dread of
parting, for ever came that cry, ' How I could
have loved him f

Naturally enough no one dreamed how it
was with Barbara. The painful episode in the
history of the Rector's niece had drawn all
attention, all speculation to itself. Few cared
to remember that once upon a time the
Squire's son had fallen in love with a ' flither-
picker,' had suffered something that was
almost death because of her ; and, finally, had
owed his life to her. That was the end ; and
it had happened months ago.

OLD EPHRAIM.

Seemeth he ?
Some sobbing weep, some weep and make no sound.'

Are ya' tired, honey ? — are ya' more tired
nor usual ?' the old man asked, as Bab came
up the slope of the ForeclifF, her baby in one
arm asleep and smiling, and a skilful of
brash* in the other.

Bab looked up a little wonderingly as she
answered that she was not particularly weary.
Words of endearment had always come from
her grandfather's lips so rarely, so unreadily,
that she hardly ever heard them without
suspicion ; and there was something more this
evening — a gentleness in his intonation, a

O © 7

Brash, a local name for the tiny morsels of coal and driftwood
that fringe the waves along the beach near to the
mouths of rivers or backs.

tremulousness in his voice not to be noted
without alarm.

It was a Ma)' evening, somewhat chilly, as
the evenings of that month are apt to be in
the north of c Merry England.' There was a
cold, blue look upon sea and sky, almost a
threatening look ; but since the fishing-fleet of
the neighbourhood was in safe shelter there
was no special need for anxiety on account of
the men and boys of the place who were
not at home. Perhaps even a deeper anxiety
might be caused by the recollection of such
as had been left behind to await the news
of success from those who had gone out
in search of it. Not even old Ephraim
could remember any year when the strain
of living had been so great at Ulvstan Bight
as it was now.

The affectionate words that Barbara had
just heard from the old man's lips awoke
the cord that had been reverberating through
the past days.

As gently and deftly as might be she gave
the children their supper of bread and milk-and-water,
gave each one a careful bath in
the little back-kitchen, listened to each one's

evening prayer, and gave to each one a last
loving kiss. Then she came outside again
to the stone seat where old Ephraim was still
smoking in the chill, dark-blue evening light.

You'll not have your supper out of doors
this chilly night, grandfather ?' she asked,
sitting down beside him for a moment — nota
usual thing for her to do. In those stern
northern regions the deepest love seldom
shows the slightest sign of love's most
natural seeming familiarity.

Ah think Ah will, Barbarie — Ah think
Ah will to-night.'

And again came that shiver of fear, of
dread to the girl at his side.

'Just as you like, grandfather, just as you
fancy,' she replied, with seeming light-heartiness
; and in a few minutes the little table
was in front of him, the steaming soup
sending out a grateful odour.

For a time the old man enjoyed his meal in
silence — no, not quite that; the art of silent
feeding was one he had not heard of. Since
Barbara had heard it alluded to once she had
become sensitive ; but her sensitiveness was
not hurt this evening's

good, Barbara ; it's good broth, this
is ! Won't ya lev a drop on it ?'

No, grandfather, thank you.'

Old Ephraim paused awhile — then, with
most unwonted effusion, he laid his hand
upon the girl's arm, and said brokenly :

Ah know why, honey — Ah know it all !
I hevn't watched thee all these years athoot
seem' 'at thee never thinks for thyself' — no,
not for a minnie — it's alius me, or the bairns,
or Nan's little Ildy ; or if it isn't none of us,
it's somebody outside — onyhoo, it's never
thyself, as a bairn might see, lookin' at thy
thin white felice. . . . An' Ah nun say it
some time, an' that soon ; so Ah'll say it
noo, Ah can't bear to watch thee noa longer.
Ah've kept it all back tell the carry last ;
an' Ah've done that for my loan sake. Ah
couldn't bard noa talking'. . . . An' Ah's
non an oat man yit — not me ; why, Ah's
nobbut i' my seventies ! An' there was oat
Jake Moss as went to the Greenland Seas in
his nineties ! An' as for me, why Ah's nobbut
just going toon by t' edge o' t' coast an' up
again ! An' that just i' th' spring o' th' year,
when all's as quiet as can be. . . . Te tell the

truth, Barbie, Ah's desert set o' going' —
desert set on it! Ah never thowt 'at Ah
sad be, but I is. . . . Nay, Ah was kind
o' heard on't, an' had a kind o' dread o' fain'
the saut water again. 'Twas rather strange !
wasn't it noo ? An' then all at once Ah
turn'd back o' myself', and seemed, so to say,
crazed o' going' ! . . . Why nowt would stop
ma noo ! — noil, nowt 'at Ah can think on !
Ah's fair impatient for the morro' morning'.
. . It is queer, noo, isn't it!'

1 The morrow morning !' Barbara repeated
quietly.

The old man did not see how pale she grew,
how her lips whitened suddenly, how full of
deep pain was the look that she fixed upon the
far sea-horizon.

Ay, to-morro' morning', honey ; an' better
so ! Thee can't ha' no time to fret !'

Then the old man laughed a long, low
laugh, meant to be easy and quite unaffected,
but not altogether successful.

Fretting' !' he exclaimed presently. ' Te
talk o' fretting' about an aud salt like me going'
fra Hildshaven to the Thames an' back again

vol. in. 44

at midsummer ! Goodness gracious me ! what
may one live te come to?'

There was another pause — a pause that
meant for Barbara a strong and stern strife.
She knew — recognised most certainly — that
any effort to stay the old man must end in
failure. As he said, there was no danger
to be dreaded ; that is, none save such as
must attend every man who joins the brave
army of those who go down to the sea in ships.

And all such dangers he had braved long
ago — braving such extreme moments as few
had passed through with sufficient energy to
enable them to describe their experience in
detail. As Damian Aldenmede had often
said. Ephraim Burclas's life, truly written,
would have been a life to rank with the most
thrilling biographies of the English language.

Unfortunately there was no one at hand to
write it. Barbara Burclas, his granddaughter,
the recipient of his every experience, might
see the book — see it in her mind's eye from
the first page to the last — but, happily for
her, the mysteries of pen and ink were yet
most elaborately mysterious.

That one should simply sit down to a desk

and write some words which should afterwards
be translated into print, the printed
sheets be transformed into bound books, was
enlightenment of the most startling kind.
i Alas that how books were made ?'

But she was not thinking of these things
on this blue, bleak May evening. Her
thought was drawn to the idea of parting
from her grandfather, the nominal head of
the house, the nominal mainstay. After all,
was it imperative that he should go?

So wondering, so hoping, so fearing,
Barbara went to bed, leaving her grandfather
to enjoy the rising moon, the silvery sea, the
peace — the precious peace of that life in
Ulvstan Bight.

By-and-by the old man went indoors ; and
by-and-by he too slept. The moon sailed
above the Forecliff, above the sea, above
a realm of quiet that seemed as if it might
never be broken. And the gray dawn was
quiet too — quiet and sombre and tristful. But
presently there came the sound of human
intrusion upon the peace of nature. Yet
it was a thoroughly characteristic sound, and
in keeping with the scene.

44—2

Ephraim Burdas, old man! where be ya?
The Land o the Leal is off o' Danesbro'
waiting' for ya ; so if ya mean to sail wiv her
as ya said — if ya've non changed yare
mind, come along sharp ! . . .'

Barbara had heard, feeling afresh the chill
shivering of the previous evening as she
did so; and as she dressed in haste, her
every thought was a prayer. In a few
minutes she was outside the cottage making
inquiries of Peter Grainger as to the details
of the voyage, and the probable length of it.
She had not asked any of these questions
before.

As she had discovered only the previous
evening, and to her great pain, her grandfather's
belongings were all ready. His hammock
and blanket had been packed while
she was out beyond the Bight at the limpet -
beds — nay, she knew that for weeks past
he must have been secretly and silently
making his preparations. He had left no
worrying or tiresome detail to irritate the
last moment.

Her first instinct was to rush indoors again
and dress the children; the two elder boys

could dress themselves, and Ailsie could assist
the smallest of the brothers. The baby took
all the time Bab had to give.

They were all outside the cottage at the
last moment. Jack and Stevie were almost
hilarious at the idea of their grandfather
going to sea again; but little Ailsie would
not respond, and hid her face in Barbara's
gown and wept sorely.

He'll non come back, grandfather won't,'
the child sobbed in whispers, not to be heard
by any save Bab herself. ' He'll non come
back — no, never ! I'll have to go to him !
. . He'll non come back here again — no,
never!'

A LETTER FROM THE LAKE OF THE FOUR
CANTONS.

Take back the hope you gave — I claim
Only a memory of the same.'

Robert Browning.

How dreary life must be at the Rectory just
now !' a lady parishioner exclaimed one day to
Gertrude Douglas.

Miss Douglas liked to have such remarks
made to her ; she was a little vain that it
should be known how completely she was in
the confidence of everyone in the house on
the hilltop. And no one could say that she
had ever betrayed the confidence reposed in
her. If not altogether a wise woman, she
was by no means to be classed with the
foolish. And her saving grace was that she
was free from all taint of malice, or evil will,
or bitter recollection. She hardly knew what

it was to remember an unfortunate remark.
Her temperament seemed always charged to
overflowing with kindliness and pleasantness ;
and she had what certain people called a 4 gift
for seeing everything couleur de rose'' The gift
is a valuable one, as well for the neighbour of
the possessor as for the possessor himself.

Dreary!' she replied to the inquiring lady
in her most liquid and musical tone. * Well,
no ; do you know, after all it is hardly that.
They are not dreary people, either the Canon
or Mrs. Godfrey.'

1 Oh, well,' the lady replied, ' a shade or two
in the meaning of a word is not usually of
much importance in conversation. You know
what I meant. It must be a time of sadness
compared with times past. Think of the life
there a year ago — only last spring — the garden-parties,
the tennis, the people gathered there
always, some to meet the Meredithss — popular
people always — some to try to make out that
perplexing artist — what was his name ? I
forget.'

4 Aldenmede — Damian Aldenmede

There are people who set down the whole
catastrophe to his account.'

1 So they do. . I never did.'

■ Didn't you ?' Miss Douglas asked with a
very clever note of indifference in her accent.
Yet there must have been a cause ; don't you
think so ?'

i Undoubtedly,' said the lady, hiding an
inconvenient smile. 4 And that a cause not
far to seek. The match between Mr. Meredith
and Miss Theyn was never a likely one ;
the merest onlooker could see that!'

Do you think so ? Well, you do surprise
me!' Gertrude exclaimed. And there is no
doubt but that her surprise was genuine.
We — that is, all of us at the Rectory — all of
us who really knew them both well, considered
the engagement a most desirable one ;
desirable in every sense.'

Desirable, yes ; but suitable, no /' was the
emphatic reply. ' And the event was proof
enough that Miss Theyn saw as I saw, as
others saw ! . . . I have only sorrow for her
and yet no, something more than soxtow —
I have admiration, hope. She will live to be
glad /'

With this half-dubious word, Miss Douglas's
interlocutor went her way, and Gertrude proceeded

to the Rectory, where Mrs. Godfrey
was only now engaged in the saddening task
of returning one by one the whole of the
numerous wedding presents sent to her niece.

When Gertrude entered the drawing-room,
Mrs. Godfrey was already in tears; for the
very weariness, the very deadness and flatness
of the future, she could not help the tears.

1 I could forget the past,' she said, the hot
drops streaming through her beautiful white
hands. ' I could forget it all if I had hope
for the future. But to think of her thus, my
own child, most delicately cared for from her
birth ; " spoiled," people said, who could not
see that what they called spoiling was the
very condition of her life. People talk, the
newspapers write, the doctors lecture, on
what is called " Infant Mortality," on the
frightful "waste of human life." Does anyone
who has ever brought up an infant from
the birth ever cease to wonder that that
11 waste " is not tenfold greater than it is ?
It may be that it is better, in a certain sense,
that it is so. If the little ones die, they cease
to suffer. I have thought thus ever since I
had the care of Thorcla. She was so different

from other children, and as a girl she was
unlike any girl I ever knew. You will understand
me, Gertrude, where others would deride
me, when I say she was so superior — that is
not the word I want, but it will do. She was
always so reserved, so dainty, had such a
dread of things common, and rough, and
coarse. . . . And to think of her now, a
servant of servants, helping to dress the most
loathsome wounds ; brought face to face with
the most impossibly offensive sights and
sounds — oh, I cannot bear to think of it !
Even her uncle, who takes what I may almost
call the opposite view of the whole matter,
even he has sorrow for her, though he will
not admit it — not easily. Yet he cannot hide
the fact that he is grieving — how should he ?
Having no daughter of our own, Thorda was
more than a daughter to us. She was a blessing
sent to fill the place of a blessing denied,
and therefore a double blessing. And until —
until that unhappy hour, she never caused us
one moment's heartache. While the hours of
happiness she brought to us, who shall describe
them? . I cannot. I cannot believe that it
is all over ; no, I cannot. Surely one mistake

cannot ruin a life — nay, more lives than one
in this instance! Surely it cannot be!'

Miss Douglas was not wanting. Her ready
flow of sympathetic words, the musical tone
in which they were uttered, were all most
helpful at the moment ; and when by-and-by
she offered her graceful, if not very helpful or
adequate services, in aid of the work of the
day, or rather of the week, her presence
was certainly felt to be — as usual — altogether
desirable. As package after package was
wrapped up, sealed, addressed, each with
its own painfully appropriate note, Mrs. Godfrey
grew more and more grateful for the help
afforded her.

It is so good of you, dear,' she said, as
another parcel — a fine gold bracelet set with
diamonds — was being sealed by Gertrude.
It is so very good of you. I could not ask
my maid to help me in a task like this : she is
too callous ; she would have driven me half
wild. On the other hand, there was only my
husband, who could not have helped me for
the life of him. He would have broken down
while sealing the first package.'

Do you think so ? Do you really think

that he would ?' Miss Douglas asked, not
wishing to show superior discernment, but
more clearly alive to the Canon's strength of
will than might have been supposed.

Perhaps it was fortunate that at that point
an interruption should occur. Ellerton entered
the room with a letter on a tray — a
foreign letter, as Mrs. Godfrey saw at a
glance. She broke the seal with some trepidation.


How strange !' she exclaimed, unfolding
the thin paper. ' How very strange that
this should come now ! It is from Mr.
Aldenmede.'

From Mr. Aldenmede !' Gertrude exclaimed.
Oh, do tell me about him ! Where is he ?
The Pyramids ? The Rocky Mountains ?'

You shall know all presently, dear. The
letter is dated from the Hotel Unterwalden,
Lucerne. . . . Ah, how well I know it ! how
well I can see it all ! The blue bright lake,
the blue sky, the green trees, the hotel itself
glowing from top to bottom with its dazzling
crimson-and-white persiennes. . . . And then
the scenery beyond, and all around, everywhere!
. . . But we shall see what Mr.

Aldenmede says of it. He must be happy
there!'

And truth to say the letter had touches of
healing in it : the healing that comes of intercourse
with Nature — Nature at her greatest
and grandest.

o

I have been to the Riviera Mr. Alden-mede
wrote, ' and intend going to the North
Italian lakes in a few days. I am hoping to
be able to paint a picture — a lovely piece of
scenery at the lower end of the Ago di Garcia.
My hotel will be the Cavazzola, Desenzano.
If you should be moved to write, be assured
that I should be most grateful to receive a
letter. These May evenings are long, and
lovely, and lonely. The mornings are beautiful
beyond all description. Those who have
only seen Mont Pilatus in "the season," when
the snow has gone, and the purple shadows
lie deep upon the mountains all day, can easily
understand why it should usually be spoken of
as " Gloomy Pilatus." But oh, that the world
could see it as I see it now ! Better still as I
saw it this morning at four o'clock ! It would
need the pen of a Buskin to do any sort of
justice to it ! There had been rain at Lucerne

and in the neighbourhood for an entire week
the cold rain that means snow even on the
lowest mountain heights. Even last night all
was gray, and dead, and lowering. Judge,
then, what I felt this morning when, on
awakening at four, I saw instantly that the
world about me was flooded with sunshine.
And such sunshine ! Before your head leaves
the pillow you are dazzled, exhilarated.

1 I feel paralysed when I think of trying, by
means of mere pen and paper, to give you any
idea of the glorious scene that burst upon me

when I stood by my window side I

am not ashamed to say that I saw it first
through tears.

1 One hardly knew which way to look first,
whether down the Lake of Lucerne, with
mountains on every side, blue, snow-white, or
rose-red, according to whether you happened
to look left or right, to sunlight or to shade.
And as for the lake itself— its intense glowing
blue in the forefront of the scene, the sparkle
as of diamonds in every tiny ripple; the shore
scenery, picturesque and interesting where it
was near, picturesque and mystic where it
was far off — how shall anyone give any idea

of it in a letter ! And even as I looked there
began to rise from the lower end of the lake
such strange, white, snowy, mysterious clouds,
spreading in long lance-like lines from bay to
bay, rising from peak to peak, that though I
was aware of some strong attraction drawing
me away to some other scene, I yet could not
turn.

To watch those long, white clouds, glistening
and shining above, under-shot with the
earliest of blue-gray tints below — to see these
mists embodied, so to speak, to watch them
rising against the grand peaks of the Alpine
range, dissolving as they rose, turning now to
pink, now to white, and then the next moment
not visible at all, certainly this was a lesson in
the formation of clouds. I cannot ever again
look upon the sky with such ignorance as I
have suffered from hitherto. This morning on
Lake Lucerne was a dividing line in my life.
A wall fell, and I saw beyond.

1 But not even yet have I tried to describe
the one surpassing moment. Of set purpose I
have refrained.

1 And yet I knew it was there, Mont Pilatus
in all its glory, such glory as I am told it does

not display three times in three years. So you
see, I am sometimes fortunate.

Perhaps you will even discern that I am
writing this letter before breakfast, under the
strong impulse of the exhilaration of this
glorious mountain air and scenery. Though
I am by no means new to foreign travel, this
moment has hitherto been unsurpassed.

How shall I tell you of the sight that burst
upon me as I turned to the mountain on my
right ? " Gloomy Pilatus !"

From the lowest plateau, the lowest gorge
on its magnificent side to the pointed rose-red,
shining crown, shining far up in the white,
glowing sky, Pilatus was there, every outline
defined ; in the highest parts defined in the
softest, most ethereal, shining rose-pink, against
the shining white of the sunlit clouds beyond;
lower down the pine-trees, covered with snow,
were outlined in pearly-gray tints upon the
depth of snow behind.

4 There was snow everywhere, colour everywhere,
shining, rising mist, almost everywhere.
. . . But what amazed me was the
fact that nowhere did there ?seem to be any
cold.

Early though, it was, between four and five
in the morning, the people were thronging to
church. The bells were ringing softly, the
softer for the nearness of the water, which
seems always to "liquids" the sound; the
fishing boats were gliding across the lake;
people were sauntering under the chestnuts of
the Schweizerhof Quai. Ah, how calm it all
was, how full of peace !

4 And even yet it is peaceful. Fancy having
merely to turn one's head to see Pilatus on
one side, and the Rigi Culm on the other!
And then all the snowy Alpine range between,
point behind point, rising to the clouds, nay,
piercing beyond them ! Below the snow the
dark firs come; they are everywhere, lending
such a depth of purple to the distance, such
soft, deep, changeful mystic purple, as no
palette could give you; and below the firs the
calm, still sapphire lake reflecting all. I cannot
help writing it once more ; everywhere
there is calm, and to a soul needing this
healing as mine does, the sensation fills one
with gratitude, the holiest gratitude. I do
not know that ever in my life before I felt
so perfectly all that might be included in

vol. in. 45

the words, " Peace on earth, good will to
men."

And now that I have said all this about
myself, do you not feel moved to be generous,
to tell me all about yourself, and how the
world seems to you, now that the world's
happiest spot, your home fireside, is no
longer brightened by the presence of your
niece. You must congratulate yourself very
sincerely on the fact that her home and
yours are so near together. "Will you give
my kind remembrance to Mr. and Mrs.
Meredith, and also to Mrs. Meredith senior.'

This latter part of the letter Mrs. Godfrey
had not read aloud; and now she was glad
that she had not.

For a few moments she tried to shade her
tearful eyes with her hand ; but Miss
Douglas saw by the quivering lips, heard
by the half suppressed sigh, that pain was
being endured; and well she knew the kind
of pain. Fortunately she had no impulse
toward attempting to relieve it.

A little later Mrs. Godfrey read aloud to
her husband and to Miss Douglas some parts
of the conclusion of the letter.

1 If you should at any time be moved to
write to me, please tell me all that you know
of Barbara Burdas and her household. I
have written to her, more than once, and
have received one very welcome letter in
reply. What a noble girl she is ! Her
natural instincts are so great, so unselfish ;
and every now and then she finds how they
have been crossed by hereditary strain, how
they had been injured on this hand by
training, or the influence that goes for
training, on the other by neglect ; and all
this she takes to herself for her own failing!
Yet that at her age and in her position
she should be alive to it all, is a most
astonishing thing to me ! And it is even
more astonishing that she should go on
gathering bait, mending nets, washing, cooking,
serving by day, and yet should have the
intellectual appetite to sit down and read
Ruskin or Carlyle, Shakespeare or Tennyson,
by night. And then her love for the
children, her especial love for her little
sister Ailsie, and for her friend's motherless
baby: does it not show how completely
her character is womanly all round ?

45-2

I Yet I am not quite happy about her.
How should I be ? All the while, from
the first day of my seeing her, I had wished
to do something to alleviate her position a
little ; yet I dreaded with a very natural
dread to interfere with what seemed to me the
arrangement of a higher Power. Xow, however,
I have fears, and it may be time that I
should step in and do what I can. Will you
help me ? Will you bring your finer feminine
tact to bear upon a most difficult feminine
problem? As to the pecuniary part, without
being needlessly explicit, I may say that I can,
that I shall be happy to, do whatever you may
think wise.

I I need hardly say that we must work together
with discretion, seeming to bestow our
attention upon the children, or the grandfather.
Barbara's pride is seldom in a very
quiescent state. That is one of her short



comings. She has hardly arrived at the perception
of the fact that to receive a benefit
from a friend gracefully is to have reached a
high point of human training. . . . We must
help her training on this head, you and I,
that is if you will kindly co-operate with me.

And I feel sure you will. I have written
all this without once questioning your kindness


That was nearly the end of the letter. The
Canon asked to see it after dinner, and read
it through again from beginning to end, but he
read it in silence. Miss Douglas was at the
piano, playing some of Thorda's music, now
and then singing one of her songs. . . .
Perhaps it might only be in these minor
matters that her intuition failed.

This is pleasant, Milicent dear,' Hugh
Godfrey said, leaning over the sofa on which
his wife was resting in the dim lamp-light.
1 This letter is very pleasant — for the most
part — and opens up some charming ideas of
life — ideas we had half forgotten. It is so
long since we were abroad — so long since we
saw a snow-crowned Alp ! Can't we manage
it — you and I?'

And take Thorda with us ? We must do
that; that we must do.'

And have it said that you had taken her
abroad to meet Damian Aldenmede !' Miss
Douglas interposed, leaving the music-stool.
She had lost no word of all that had been said.

Well accustomed as Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey
were to Miss Douglas and her peculiarities,
much as they appreciated her manifold good
qualities, there were yet moments when she
occasioned them at least surprise.

Her suggestion was met with silence — a
perfect but not painless silence.

With true large-heartiness the Canon
turned from a difficult topic to one that at
least promised easier continuance.

We must think over wdiat Mr. Alden-mede
says of Barbara Burdas,' the Canon remarked.
' How good he is ! How few men
would have remembered an Ulvstan fisher-girl,
and have written of her thus, while
among the most perfect scenery of the Swiss
Alps!'

But how r few fisher-girls would strike the
chords of remembrance as Barbara does ! You
wouldn't speak of her in the same breath as
Kirsty Verrill, or Martha Thixen?'

The Canon only smiled his reply.

You will go down to the Bight soon, dear?'
he asked. ' It will be an additional grace in
Aldenmede's eyes if you send him a few w r words
at once.'

We will go tomorrow, in the forenoon
if you can, Hugh, dear. You must come
with me.'

1 Gladly, if it be fine. But I am doubtful
about the weather.'

1 The glass has been going down all day,
so my father said Miss Douglas remarked.
And even now it looks threatening she
added. ' Perhaps I had better go at once.'

1 No, Gertrude, dear. If it looks threatening
— and I think it does — that is sufficient
reason for your staying. There is your old
room. And they will not expect you at home
when they see these clouds !'

Gertrude laughed.

They never do expect me she said carelessly.
' If I am at home by ten, well and
good ; if not, the doors are locked. My father
is very rigid.'

AT THE OLD HOUSE OX THE FORECLIEF.

1 Break, break, break,

On thy cold, gray stones, O sea !
And I would that my tongue could utter
The thoughts that arise in me.'

Tennyson.

As the party at the Rectory had anticipated,
there was a change of weather during the
night, but it was, on the whole, a less severe
change than the signs had seemed to predict.

At dawn the boisterous wind went down,
and with its fall the sea fell from its midnight
wildness. By noonday there was nothing to
prevent the most ' weather-fended ' person
from going out of doors, and consequently,
at luncheon, Mrs. Godfrey announced her intention
of going down to the Forecliff.

I am going in obedience to the request of
Mr. Aldenmede,' she said with her usual light

pleasantness of manner. ' Gertrude, you will
come with me?'

1 1 ! oh nos Miss Douglas exclaimed, uttering
the words with such musical vehemence,
with such pretty gestures of surprise, that
neither of the two who watched her were
moved to trace her objection to its source.
However, there was no afterthought in her
own mind to prevent her from disclosing the
thought that was uppermost.

1 How you do such things, dear Mrs. Godfrey,
I don't know !' she exclaimed, with that
brightness of emphasis w T which was one of her
most prominent social attractions. ' It is all
very well to care for the poor,' she went on,
quite seriously now. Miss Douglas was an
artist in the lights and shades of vocal expression
; and many a struggling histrionic
aspirant, struggling w r with a strongly-artistic
inward impetus overbalanced by ignorance of
all the requisite outward culture — many such
might have envied Gertrude Douglas her instinct
of intonation. It was strange that all
inward illumination should be wanting, all
spiritual inspiration denied.

It is all very w r ell for one to care for the

poor,' she said quite gravely, ' but to care for
them is one thing, to endure . . . the — shall
I say, for politeness' sake, the odour of their
dwellings, is another. We are all bound to
care for the common people ; whether we are
bound to endure the . . .'

Miss Douglas did not finish her remarks.
Her phrase, ' the common people,* had so
roused one of her interlocutors that he did
not permit her to finish.

He repeated the phrase, in tones of indignation
he was sorry afterward to have used to
a guest.

1 Common people ! Why do we use that
phrase ?' he asked, ' or rather, why do we use
it speaking only of the poor? It is so senseless
! If we mean " vulgar," either in the old
sense or the new, let us say so. . . . Common !
I fancy we might find two uncommon characters
among the very poor for one among the
classes above them in possessions, in culture.
Beside?, there is such a terrible ring of
would-be superiority in the way we use
the words nowadays.'

It was characteristic that Miss Douglas only
laughed pleasantly as the Canon concluded,

and even while she laughed she darted most
charming glances of understanding, first to
Mrs. Godfrey, then toward the head of the
table where the Canon sat, already half-ashamed
of his vehemence.

Gertrude, you are the best-tempered girl
in the world he said, in his own generous
straightforward way. ' You never take
offence f

Take offence at you !' she replied, her
bright eyes just a little moistened with a tear
not meant to fall. The little episode was all
forgotten long before Mrs. Godfrey left her at
her father's door.

'Come again soon, dear; tomorrow, if you
can Mrs. Godfrey exclaimed, kissing her
hand to the doctor's daughter as the carriage
drove away. Then she sank back among her
cushions, silent and lonely. She was apt to
admit that her own thoughts were never very
good company.

The Rectory carriage had ceased to make
much sensation on the Forecliff. A neighbour
or two ran out to watch the progress of
the vehicle up the narrow street, the rough
little lane bordered with dusty coltsfoot. Two

little lads — they were Jack and Zebulon — stood
at the top of the lane, and went running into
the Sagged House as the carriage came : but
alas for all Mrs. Godfrey's amiable intention,
it was only old Hagar who came out.

Eh, my lady,' she exclaimed, dropping an
unwonted curtsey, a rare thing on the Fore-cliff.
' Eh, madam, but Bab's not here. It'll
be her yer wanting' for sure V

Yes, I was wishing to see Barbara,' Mrs.
Godfrey exclaimed, leaving the carriage and
going toward the door of the house. ' May I
come in ?' she asked with an amiable smile,
and passing on in her grand, stately way. No
wonder poor old Hagar was overpowered, and
hardly knew what she said or did.

The cottage fire was low and gray ; the
fireside, which had always been so bright and
clean, was heaped with dust and ashes.
Wooden washing-tubs filled with dirty
clothing and dirty water stood in muddy
pools upon the brick floor, upon chairs,
upon stools ; the remains of the dinner
stood in unsavoury untidiness upon the
table by the window. The two boys, unkempt,
uncared-for in every way, stood by

the old oak bureau, looking as if they did
not understand this new order of things.
Hagar was drying a sloppy chair with her
apron for Mrs. Godfrey to sit upon, talking
volubly all the while ; and in such evidently
heartfelt accents of regret that she was already
forgiven. In her own heart Mrs. Godfrey
was less hard upon dirt and disorder than
some who are fain to profess a greater
tolerance.

Eh, but I is sorry, I is desert sorry,' the
old woman was saying. ' Babel never forgive
ma, no never. She felled me so surely 'at Ah
wasn't to meddle wi' no washin' ; there was
clean things snuff an' te spare tell she came
back. So there would ha' been, but when
Sure Andoe came in yesterday, an' saw as
Ard nowt to do, she offered ma nine pence ef
Ah'd wish a few things foot for her; an so
Ah started this morning'; an' then Suzy came
in wiv her pipe an' sat an' talked, an' smoked,
so as Ah couldn't get on a bit. An' here I
is! Eh, what would Barbarie say if she
could see you i' sike a muddle as this !'

It was some time before Mrs. Godfrey could
make herself heard. Old Hagar's hearing was

less quick than her tongue. In answer to the
inquiry of the Rector's wife as to where Barbara
Bur cas might have gone, a very flood of
words was poured out, explaining things past,
present, and to come.

First came a history of the poverty that
was universal on the coast about Ulvstan, its
cause, its duration, with many details quite
irrelevant. Next, evidently coming somewhat
nearer to the point, old Ephraim Burdas's
biography was given from Hagar's first recollection
to the last.

An' when I heercl tell o' the old man's
want te goa to sea again, wanting' so terribly
as they say he did, why Ah'd nobbut one
thowt. Ah've leered tell on it afore, my
lady, that desert longing' 'at comes upon a
seafaring' man — a longing' just te god one
more voyage — that's hoo they put it, or rather
hoo it's put te them. An when they can't but
goa, when noa reason '11 touch 'em, noa begin'
nor praying' move 'em, why then folks begin to
see ; an' they say " good-bye," known' 'at
all's covered. . It was so i' this case, my
lady, it was indeed ; an' Bab snowed it. An'
when the old man had fairly gone, she broke

toon, an cried as Ah'd never seen her cry
afore — noa, nut even when both father an'
mother were drowned afore her eyes. She
were that sure 'at she'd never set her eyes on
the old man again.'

But 3^0 u say that she has gone to him, to
Hild's Haven ?' Mrs. Godfrey inquired, recalling
to the old woman's mind an admission she
had made at first.

1 Ay, so she lies ; an' glad snuff she were to
goa.'

How long is it now since she went ?'
4 How long ? Weel, let ma see ! It's a
week noo, more or less, sen' the letter com' —
a letter fra the master, Christie Balloon.
He's part owner o' the schooner, a trader she
is, train' atween Hild's Haven an' London.
He was wanting' a entry hand this summer, as
Ephraim had heard tell, an' so they agreed ;
an' Ephraim sailed, an' had a prosperous
voyage snuff tell they got back te Hild's
Haven. An' just afore they landed the old
man sickened all at once, an' he was that bad
'at the master wrote for Bab te goa at once if
so 'twere 'at she cared te see him alive. So it
were 'at she went, at a minnie's notice ; an'

she'd no thought o' takin' non o' the bairns
save Nan's Ildy ; but at the last mint little
Ailsie began te cry i' that broken-hearted
way 'at Bab could never stand. An' hearing'
Ailsie, little Steve began te cry just i' the
same fashion. Bab turned as white as a
sheet. " Put 'em up a night-goon apiece,
Hagar," she said ; for she was washin' an'
dressing' t' infant just then. " Ah'll take
'em wi' me, them two," she went on. An
Ah dared not gainsay her. So it was she
went ; an' so it is 'at Ah'me here wi' Jack
and Zeb ; but Ah's desert sorry about the
wishing

Mrs. Godfrey had listened with an interest
only equalled by her patience. Till the tale
was done she hardly knew how some touch of
weirdness in the old woman's language and
manner had affected her.

It is hardly too much to say that the
Rector's wife felt as if she had been listening
to the story of the going forth of some sentence
of doom, a very indefinite sentence, but
involving disaster.

Mrs. Godfrey was so far from being a
superstitious woman that those who knew

her best considered her most incredulous on
any matter touching upon things unseen.

And it was no mere profession, no mere
light, clever, sarcastic way of making a 
full of people wonder at her ready
word, or envy her strong clearheadedness.
She was undoubtedly free from the awe and
dread of things not comprehended that accompany
some people from the cradle to the
grave.

Yet at this moment, in the fisherman's
cottage, she sat silent and chill, wrought
upon by what might certainly have been
termed ' an old wife's ' tale. When it was
so termed later, Mrs. Godfrey heard the accusation,
and did not reply. At this moment
her words were not ready; she was silent
awhile. Then she asked of Hagar, speaking
in an aimless way :

Was it wise of Barbara to take the little
ones, three of them, and one an infant buta
few months old?'

Wise, my lady! It were madness, just
that ! An' for Bab te do such a thing — her of
all others ! . . . Eh, well, there's more i' the
world, or but just outside the icorld, nor we

vol. in. 46

know on. An' folks can't do as they will.
We noiin on us can. An' Alium noiin going'
te blame Barbarie, let what come on it will,
Ah'll noiin saiiy one word o' blaine myself'.
. . Ah'd be an ungrateful wretch if Ah did,
seem all she's done for me!'

1 Blame her, poor child ! Who will do that,
I wonder?' Mrs. Godfrey said, rising to go.

She had a basket in her hand with some
strawberry jam for the children, and a packet
or two of expensive farinaceous food for Barbara's
baby, and the basket was left behind a
little sadly.

Mrs. Godfrey had taken her seat in the
carriage, the coachman was prepared to start,
when all at once the postman came up,
handed a letter to old Hagar, which the old
woman took with a dropping at the corners of
her mouth that touched the Rector's wife
piteously.

1 Stay a moment, Woodward !' she exclaimed:
then, turning to Hagar, she said gently, ' Can
you read the letter ? Is it from Barbara ? If
it is, I should so much like to know what she
says.'

It teas from Barbara, as the old woman

knew it must be. And it was so long since
she had received any letter that she shook
with dread, as she took it in her brown
withered hands.

There was nothing dreadful about this
epistle. It was clearly and carefully written.
In writing it, Bab had wondered much into
whose hands it must fall before Hagar could
be made to understand its purport.

It was dated from Hild's Haven, from a
small house near the quay, where old Ephraim
had been received on his landing.

He had been very ill,' Barbara wrote, ' and
when I came he was not much better. Now
he is quite well in health, yet not like himself,
not at all. Though he is not unhappy, he has
not the spirit he used to have. Often, in
days gone by, I have wished he was a little bit
more quiet and gentle ; now I would give anything
to hear him fly and snap at one in the
old way. But he does not; and I think he
never will again. I am so glad I brought the
little ones, because he seems never tired of
seeing them; and with trying to amuse them
he amuses himself.

46—2

1 The people here are very good. Still it is
expensive, and costs more than I have to pay
with, as the Captain knows. He is very kind,
and to save railway fare he is going to let me
and the children come back in the schooner all
the way to the Balderstone. He could have
put us ashore a lot easier at Danesborough, as
I pointed out to him, but being so kind, he
said it wouldn't make much difference to him
if he left us, so to speak, on our own doorstep.
I shall never forget him for being; so
good to Ildy and Ailsie ; and I do believe hell
be even kinder to grandfather than he was
before.

I expect we'll be at home two days from
this. That will be Friday; but whether it
will be the fore part of the day or the latter
part, I can't tell. We shouldn't have had
this chance, but just now the Land 6 > the Leal
wanted some slight repairs, which is being
clone here.

1 Give the little lads a kiss apiece, and tell
them how it comforts me to feel so sure that
they are behaving well, and especially being
good to you.

May God bless all of you — that is the

prayer made man)* times both by night and
by day by

• Your friend,

- Barbara Btjrdas.'

Mrs. Godfrey read the letter aloud to old
Hagar, who listened, still tremulous, but inclined
to be tearful.

0' Friday, lady — you say she's coming'
o' Friday ! Well, may the Lord be thanked,
for I've had such dread o' my mind — such
strange dread ! . . . An' you say old
Ephraim's better, an' they're coming back!
They're all coming' o' Friday! Well, well!
But it is strange !'

4 GO AND PRAY THE Night DRAWS NEAR.'

1 A shadow on the moonlight fell,

And murmuring wind and wave became
A voice whose burden was her name.'

J. G. Whittier.

That so much of all that is hidden from the
wise and prudent should be revealed unto
those who are verily babes in this world's
wisdom is undoubtedly a striking thing, and
not easily intelligible.

To become intimately acquainted with a
poor and uneducated man or woman who has
passed, or, better still, is at present passing,
through the deeper seas of spiritual experience,
is to feel the scales falling from one's
eyes — the scales of ignorance, of misconception.


If one can joass, as it were, behind the

phraseology, which to some people may be
so banalj so commonplace, as to be utterly
unmeaning — nay, almost revolting — if one
can do this — and it is not always difficult —
then it is that one finds one's self face to face
with that wonder, that mercy for which our
Master uttered the words, ■ I thank Thee,
Father!'

The inner life of David Andoe had for a
long period of time been a life of struggle,
of hours, nay, days of darkness, of heaviness,
of almost despair.

Is it not of itself a strange thins" that a
man so ignorant, so utterly uncultured, unintellectual
in almost every sense of the word —
is it not matter for wonder that such a one
should still be convinced in his own mind
that somewhere, somehow to be obtained
even by him, there is a state of peace, of
mental and spiritual quiet; a state into which
no dread of the vast unknown future can
enter — the future that lies beyond the day
of death — a state over which but little disquiet
as to the present — this sad, troubled, wearying,
worrying present — can ever prevail ? Is not
this assurance a strange thing, we repeat ?

All the while David Ancloe had had this
conviction. He had even held it through
one of the two most terrible tests that can
come to any human being — the test of a
strong, overpowering affection, broken or
bereaved.

He had had but little help from without.
The Zion Chapel people had not understood
him altogether ; and of late they had not
even made pretence of greatly sympathising
with him. That a man who had been
prayed with and for during a space of
over two years should not yet have
found salvation ' was an almost unheard-of
thing, and the cause of much doubtful speculation.


The result of all this was to throw the
man more and more upon himself; and his
very loneness grew more and more a terrible
thing.

One thing he had for which he could be
greatly thankful — he could pray. And now
so long he had prayed amongst the rocks and
weed-grown boulders of Ulvstan Bight that
it seemed as if the place must for ever bea
holy place to him. Though he did not

actually put off his shoes as he approached,
he vet drew near the spot in that attitude
of mind symbolized by the act of uncovering
the feet or head. It is for ever true that for
each one of us our holy ground must be the
place we have made holy by our own prayer
our own prayerful suffering.

There are other grounds holy to us, consecrated
to us by the holiness, the suffering of
other lives. So it is that

The whole round earth is every way
Bound by gold chains about the Feet of God.'

That night was a memorable night in the
history of David Andoe.

Already he had passed through an hour
that he knew to be a crisis in his life — one of
those hours that lie enshrined in the memory
of most people who have any inner life at all.
He had begun by feeling an unusual sense
of darkness, of depression. His life was a
failure; his sins were deep and dark beyond
the possibility of forgiveness. His very
prayers were unanswered ; and so, doubtless,
unheard. For years he had waited fora
sign; and yet no shadow of a sign had been
given.

But to-night, less than an hour ago, a great
change had passed upon the man.

While he prayed the cloud was lifted, the
cloud that had rested upon all his later
life.

He could not have described the hour, or
his experience of it, with any definiteness.
He only knew that where all had been misery
and heaviness, now there was a sense of happiness.
Where darkness had been, now light
reigned. The hopelessness that had crushed
him to the earth was turned to a sudden
lightness and buoyancy, to the feeling that
enables a human being to meet on equal terms
any other arbiter of the changes and chances of
human life.

In one way or another, are we not each
of us the determining quality of the truth
or untruth of the life of some other one ?

The Divine Love, moving within us like
all other love that is pure and true, is for ever
unselfish.

Its first thought is not 'Am I my brother's
keeper ?' but rather this, ' Where is my
brother ? Let me find him, that this my
happiness may overflow upon him ; that I

may have the increased happiness of feeling
that his sympathy is deepening the channels
of my own.'

Not consciously, not articulately do these
thoughts come; nor do they bring surprise.
They are part of the natural sequence of the
supernatural life.

It was growing late now ; and David was
turning to go home when he discerned among
the rocks and stones of the beach another
figure, the figure of a wanderer lonely as
himself. Some time passed before he knew
that the wanderer was no other than Hartas
Theyn.

It is quite probable that neither of these
men recognised each other with perfect calmness.
David was the first to speak.

'Ah'd no thought to meet you here to-night,
sir!' he said with unembarrassed simplicity.
But even as he spoke it struck him why it
was that he had this unusual opportunity.
He had not been without a touch of fear
himself.

The past week had been a week of most
variable weather. The wind had repeatedly
risen to a gale with appalling suddenness, and

then as suddenly sunk to a dead calm. This
is the weather the fisherman dreads most of
all, and with good reason.

More than once during the past five days
the fi sling-boats had had to fly with all the
speed they were capable of to the nearest safe
shelter.

It was thus that it happened that David
Andoe was at home on a comparatively
favourable night. Neither he nor his mates
had trusted to the promise of the earlier
evening.

Ah'd no thought to meet you here, sir !'
David began. Then presently he added, ' Yet
Ah may almost say as how Ah feared it was
you.'

Feared!' Hartas Theyn exclaimed wonderingly.


'Ay, that was how Ah put it, sir!' was the
reply. ' An' Ah think as mebbe ya know hoo
Ah meant it — not i' noa awkward waiiy — far fra
that ! . . . Naiiy, to tell the trewth, it was the
fear i' myself' as was the ground o' my fearing'
it was you. If one lies a bit o' uneasiness
that uneasiness grows when ya know other
folks is feeling' the same.'

1 Then you know nothing?' Hartas asked,
with deadly sinking about his heart.

Nothing', sir. We looked for the passion' o'
the Land o 1 the Leal last night. . . . An' she's
never passed.'

And you have no news ?'

David hesitated a moment before replying.

Non to speak on, sir,' he said at last. ' The
schooner left Hild's Haven.'

1 You know that ?'

Yes : we know that.'

c And — and old Ephraim Burdas was onboard.'


1 Old Ephraim, an' Barbarie, an' the three
little chiltern.'

Again there was silence, prolonged, painful,
pregnant.

And you say there has been no tidings
at all ?' Hartas inquired again, as if incredulous.


Xoiin, sir — noir ticlin's,'

Something in the fisherman's reply, some
touch of insouciance mingled with the sadness,
awoke a feeling that was as a momentary ray
of hope.

c Then what are people thinking — what are

they hoping?' Hartas asked with just a slight
infusion of impatience. It was well subdued ;
and the quiet moonlight resting upon the
wan worn features of a man yet so young
betrayed how deep was the emotion at the
root of the momentary absence of control.

David quite understood ; and since to
understand is usually to sympathise, he
hastened to disclose his own view to its
last outline.

1 It's so, sir. They'd leave Hild's Haven
last night — there's noa doubt o' that ! An'
then, as it's reckoned, about three hours or
so ester they left the harbour mouth a squall
swept up, an' two fishing' boats as was entering'
Hild's Haven was both upset on the bar, an'
one man was drownded — only one foot o' seven,
but he'd a wife an' five little chiltern at home,
an' another expected. That other was born ta
mid-night, so I've just been told, an' half an
hour later the dead body o' the father was
carried into the same room ; they'd nobbut
one, so they could do no other. . . . Adjust
been thinking' o' that woman, sir, she's
under thirty yet — a young woman — so te
say ; and Hxe bairns about her bed, a newborn

bairn in her arms, an' the dead body of
as fine a fellow — as fine, an' tall, an' stood a
fellow as ya ever saw — he inn be lying' close
by the bed somewhere. Yes, I was thinking'
on it all, sir, an poor agone, an' — I've no
shame i' confession' it — I was pray in' as God
would help her — help her specially, so to speak,
turin' the two or three clays to come. . . .
I was strangely drawn to dwell upon the
moment when they'll bear that man's body
away fra the woman's sight an' side. . . Good
Heaven ! Hoo will she bear it ?'

All the while Hartas Theyn stood, his pale
face uplifted in the moonlight, and silence, a
desire for silence, written on his every feature.
. . He spoke at last.

And you say that squall came on after
the Land the Leal had left Hild's Haven ?'

1 Ye?, a good bit ester, maybe a couple o'
hours. . . . But Ah'd not argue the worst
fra that ; noa, nor a good bit off the worst.
The schooner was — she is a tidy little thing, a
real Hild's Haven bottom, an' well set up wi'
gear. . . . She'd meet the squall ; I'm feared
there's non much room for doubt 'at she
would meet it, but it 'ud be as nowt, bless ya,

as nowt at all to a trim little craft like that w?
two such men on board as Christie Balloon
an Peter Grainger. An' they've been blown
foot o' their way, there's little doubt o' that.
My idee is this, they've gone further foot to sea
than they reckoned o' going', that is just when
the squall was on, an' soa they've been blown
past — I mean to say past the Bight o' Ulvstan,
where they meant to stop for a few minutes so
as to land Barbarie an' the little uns. . So as
you see, sir, there's no need to fear 'at any ill
has befallen 'em. Loan at all! Why Ah
don't feel a bit crowned myself', an' they say i'
the Bight that Ah's one o' that sort 'at's
quicker to see trouble nor happiness. . . .
Well, mebbe it is soa, happiness being so
scarce in a man's life !'

Hartas Theyn had never been without
human understanding of a certain kind of
human grief. Xow his one fierce anticipation
of trouble apart, he was yet concerned for the
trouble, past and present, of this soul so near
his own, yet so far away.

If one had time and space to put the
matter clearly it would be easy to show how
the change, the crisis, in David Andoe's soul

wrought a way into the soul of the man who
had been what the world about them counted
a rival.'

In this hour they were as brothers— brothers
newly acquainted, seeing and glad to see the
touches of relationship on either hand.

There was no gushing ; few words of any
kind attested the emotion that was swaying
the heart of each.

David Andoe's last word touched Hartas to
the core of his soul. It was not a word of
complaint, still less of reproach, but it betrayed
the man's life-long struggle with loneliness,
with misery, with hopelessness. Rebuke was
not present, either in word or tone, and it maybe
that for this very reason self-reproach
struck more keenly to the heart of the Squire's
son. A word, a mere word, would at one
time have aroused to the uttermost the antagonistic
spirit so strong within him; but though
even that word was now unuttered his conscience
was not quiet.

It is difficult to speak of these things,' he
said, resting his hand upon a big boulder
overgrown with the dark brown wrack, and
still wet with the receding tide. The smell of

vol. in. 47

the salt weed was about them everywhere ;
the moonlight poured its silvery tide over the
top of the black headland that was the northern
bound of Ulvstan Bight; there was a rippling,
quivering stream of light stretching out across
the waters of the German Ocean, and here and
there the same light was dropping deep reflections
into the pools that were between the
tall dark masses of fallen rock. Here, if anywhere,
might a man be moved to deliver himself
of any painful or perilous aggregation
lying deep under the surface of his soul.

1 It is difficult, it would be as painful to you
as to me, if I were to say all I would wish to
say Hartas Theyn had begun. And David
Andoe discerned the signs of effort, the pallid
face, the quivering lip, the quick, shortcoming
breath.

It isn't easy to say all one would like to
say,' 'the Squire's son began in reply to David
Andoe' s last remark. ' I've thought of you
often of late, and specially when I've had
trouble of my own. . . . It's then one begins
to think of other folks, to wonder if one's
injured them in any way. An' I've not been
without fear, not by no means. . . . Still, let

me say this for myself, I never meant to injure
no man. When I first knew I cared for her —
for Barbara Burdas — she was a little child, a
hardworking, thoughtful, winning child — you
couldn't look at her as she lifted her basket of
bait up the rough steps of the rocks, but you
were drawn to look at her again; maybe to smile
because she was such a little thing, so small, so
gentle, and had set herself to such big efforts.
But she usually did all she had marked out for
herself to do ; and any chance assistance was
not acknowledged too graciously. The very
root of her nature is independence. . . . But I
am wandering away from what I meant to bethe
point — my one fear lest you should think
I had done something to turn her affection
away from you. . . . Will you believe. . . .'

Stop, sir !' David Andoe interposed solemnly,
and as he spoke a great gray cloud swept up
over the moon ; the waters seemed to quiver
more coldly under the shadow. The moment
was dark, and chill, and heavy with unaccustomed
heaviness.

i Will you stop, sir ?' David begged. ' An'
let me say a word, first of all a word o' confession.
Ah've not been without feelings o'

47—2

bitterness toward you, nay, mebbe o' worse
nor that ; but Ah've generally prayed again'
all such till they've been a bit softened. . . .
An' now all such is clone away — ay, done
away for ever! . . . Ah can see it all so
plain. Bab's never cared for me, not i' that
way ; an' Ah do firmly believe, sir, as she
never would. So you see, according' to my loan
shown' Ah've no cause o' bitterness toward
you. An' Ah'm glad, right down glad to
lev a chance o' say in' so ; an' somehow, Ah
can hardly tell why, Ah'm glad at that chance
has come to-night.'

Hartas held out his hand ; the fisherman
grasped it warmly, silently. There was no
need of words of assurance.

So they parted that night, not knowing
how they were to meet again.

UPON THE WAVE-edged SxVND

1 What is to-day that we should fear to-day ?
A morrow cometh which shall sweep away
Thee and thy realm of change and death and pain.'

Christina Rossetti.

It is strange to note how sometimes a rumour
will creep, and grow, and spread, passing so
slowly as to lose all zest in the passing.
While another rumour, perhaps not more
startling and important, will all at once
spring to its position as an absorbing and
overwhelming topic. The latter was the way
in which fear as to safety of the Land 6 the
Leal spread through Ulvstan Bight and the
neighbourhood. All at once, so it seemed,
the very darkest views were taken. And
nothing came to relieve the darkness.

David Andoe had firmly and fully believed

in the theory he had put before Hartas Theyn
as to the schooner's possible chance of safety.
No one else believed in it much.

The general impression, the one that had
started into life so suddenly on the morning
following the meeting of the two menon
the scar, was one of fear so strong
and overpowering that it amounted to certainty.


Accustomed as the people of Ulvstan Bight
were to storm and wreck and every kind of
sea-wrought disaster, there was yet a new and
appalling element in the impression caused by
the loss of the Land 6 the Leal.

It was not new that a woman should suffer
shipwreck, that children should suffer with
her ; the annals of Ulvstan Bight were
saddened by many records of whole families
going down together, the mother with the
babe in her arms ; the father clasping his
infant son ; but that a girl not yet twenty, a
girl known and admired as Barbara Burdas
had been, should perish with the child of her
adoption, her own little brother and sister
suffering at the same time and in the same
almost mysterious way, was harrowing to a

degree not surpassed by any catastrophe that
had occurred within living memory. Fx^om
the moment when rumour first began to stir,
it darkened the daily life of the place ; and
conviction put as it were a drag to the wheels
of existence. During those hours if a man
neglected his work it was considered a sufficient
excuse if he declared that he could
not occupy himself as usual with such a
deadly certain uncertainty hanging over the
place,

Once let the smallest sign be given, were it
but washing up of the name-board of the
Land the Leal, or of anything known
surely to have belonged to the schooner, then
anxiety would be at an end, emotion would
die sadly and slowly down.

But no sign was given. Another morning
broke, the day was gray and cold
upon land and sea — no storm awoke the
echoes that slept in the caves of the dark
cliffs. The sea stretched from point to point,
not calm, but with a sad, restless stirring ;
the waves broke upon the land in a hopeless
monotone, falling, spreading, sinking slowly
back. At nightfall, when the gray changed

to deeper gray, the wind rose a little, wailed
along; the beach with a hollow sigh that now
and then sounded like a moan ; but as the
darkness deepened the night wind dropped
again, yielding place to a deep and strange
silence, broken only by the plashing of the
far faint wavelets. It was difficult for anyone
watching them not to feel as if here at least
Nature's sympathy were his. If there were
no understanding anywhere else, at least
there was understanding here ; there was no
mockery in the wind's sigh, no incredulousness
of pain in the ceaseless adagio of the
breaking and falling; waves.

During a portion of this time David Andoe
was with the fishing boats to the north cf
Danesborough. He made no inquiries of
anyone as to the fate of the Land o the Leal —
there was no need for any ; the disappearance
of the little vessel was talked of everywhere.
If he could have forgotten, if his aching heart
might have ceased for awhile from its aching,
there was no opportunity. And his mates
knew how it was with him ; they understood
why at nightfall he sat looking out from the
bow of the clumsily-built little fishing craft,

gazing with all intensity across the wide sea-waste
before him. What was he looking for ?
What did he expect to see ? It was well
known that the missing schooner had not
carried even the smallest boat.

Often he thought of, often too he prayed,
for another watcher. Even there out at
sea, he had heard from a little fisher-lad
of Ulvstan Bight how the Squire's son
had never left the edge of the cliff, but
walked there, watching and wandering
precisely in the same manner as others, less
than a year ago, had watched wearily for him.
They had never spoken of that time, the
father and son, but each had it in recollection ;
and it was a memorable fact that since then
not once had any word of bitterness or anger
disturbed their intercourse. The change in
Hartas was great ; but the change in the
Squire was perhaps the more striking if
rightly understood ; the old acerbity seemed
dead within him — where he could not agree,
he was silent ; where he could not admire or
sanction, he would not see.

The most curious change of all was in his
attitude to his younger daughter ; yet this

had hardly been noticeable till after the
catastrophe ' at the Rectory. The Squire
heard of his elder daughter's flight in silence,
with much perplexity. He had never understood
her, never seemed to wish to do so ;
but Miss Chalgrove had always held a private
opinion that his indifference to his elder
daughter, if not exactly feigned, was yet nota
real thing, and her opinion was strongly
confirmed by the manner in which the Squire
bore the tidings that came to Garlaff that
snowy day. He spoke no word concerning
them ; and when at last he spoke of other
things there was a marked alteration in his
voice and accent — it was as if some life had
gone out of him, as if some cherished idea
had suddenly died in his heart. And it was
from that hour that he had seemed to draw
his youngest child nearer to him, that he
began to betray signs of uneasiness if at anytime
she were out of his sight for a longer
while than usual.

It was to Rhocla alone that he spoke of the
trouble that had fallen upon Hartas, of the
way in which the young man was delivering
himself over to a useless-seeming and most

weary wandering to and fro on the cliffs by
the sea.

1 Let him alone,' the Squire said, in answer
to Rhocla's wish that her father would try the
effect of persuasion. ' Let him alone. I
know what it is. He's better there watching"
so long as there's a ray of hope alive in him ;
he'll see when there's no more use i' hoping.'

1 He'll be out of his mind by that time,'
said the brusque Rhoda.

Xot he,' was the father's reply. ' There
never was a mad Theyn yet ; the first won't
be Hartas.'

So it came to pass that Hartas was left
alone to wander to and fro from Saxby Head
to Pension Point, a range of some twelve or
fourteen miles of rushed coastline. Now lie
slept for a few hours in a cottage here, or
stayed for a meal at some roadside inn there,
or rested for a brief time by the fireside of
some stray farmhouse perched upon the edge
of the barren cliff. People began to know
him, to question each other, and by-and-by
the true reason of his wandering spread.
Many of the people who listened had heard
the story of his own escape, and were interested

in seeing him on that account alone.
Others were more drawn by the idea of his
present hopeless search ; for hopeless it was
acknowledged to be now, since so long a time
had gone by since the little schooner should
have passed by Ulvstan Bight, leaving her
passengers ' at the extreme point of the
Balderstone.

As a matter of course poor old Hagar and
the two little lads were not left alone with
their fear and their sorrow in the Sagged
House. The Rector and his wife went there
frequently, seldom finding the old woman
alone. All the Forecliff would have been
glad to help in such a case as this.

More than once Hartas had called as he
passed, drawing the boys to his side, offering
them his knife as a present, letting them look
inside his watch as an enjoyment, but doing
all this with hands that trembled before the
children, for were they not Barbara's brothers,
her own especial care? Had she not lavished
upon them such love as he had been glad to
know, aye, even the shadow of such great love.
The little fellows were commonplace enough,
stupid rather than rough, inanimate rather

than rude ; but the younger of the two had a
decided resemblance to Barbara, a resemblance
to be found mainly in the deep blue-gray eyes,
which had in them a certain promise for the
future. The lad would never be a clever man
in any sense of the term ; and to his life's end
it would be an easy matter for the veriest fool
to impose upon him. Yet there was capability
of a kind; capacity for being mildly
good, quietly inoffensive. Hartas was drawn
to this small brother of Barbara's. If . if
the worst should be, he would be a father to
the little lad.

If ' the worst should be ! There was not
another soul now in Ulvstan Bight or the
neighbourhood but did not consider the worst
a foregone conclusion.

And still Hartas walked there. The
days had no names for him — no dates. He
only knew that now it was light — now
dark ; and that always the great gray sea was
void to him, having on its surface no trace of
the sign he watched to see.

What did he dream of seeing ?

He did not know, not any more than David
Andoe knew. These men were each of them

too well acquainted with the ocean and its disasters
to dream that now the Land d the Leal
might come in sight, her sails set, her colours
flying, signalling to any who might be watching
for her return, ' I have been blown out to
sea!'

This, so easily brought to pass in a work of
fiction, could, even as an idea, only have raised
a smile on the lips of anyone living by the
shores of Ulvstan Bight. Yet they continued
to watch — some fitfully and at intervals ; one,
only one, quite ceaselessly. He would remain
till some sign came to him, telling him that
his watch was ended.

He knew now that it was nightfall again —
and he knew that his heart was beating more
faintly, his hope sinking till it might as truthfully
have been called despair !

The sun had sunk into the sea, a faint pale
gold orb of light into a rippling expanse of
pale gold water. There was not a sail insight,
not the thinnest line of smoke to darken
the gold and gray of the sky.

Though the evening was so clear, so transparent,
yet not to Hartas Theyn alone, but
even to others, there was the touch of sadness

upon it. It was as the eve that comes before
some day of trouble, of deep pain.

And as the darkness grew, the deathlike
stillness seemed to grow also. It was a
solitude that brought no peace to the solitary
man who yet went to and fro upon the cliff
top; nay, rather did it seem as if the trouble
at his heart was stirred to a fresh pain — a
keener sense of agony !

To think of all ending tints F he said to
himself — again and again he said it. ' To
think of all ending so — in darkness, in
mystery, in ignorance, in suspense. Was
there ever such suspense before? Was there
ever? Every hour is a lifetime — a lifetime of
agony !'

1 Is there no hope — none, nowhere?'

Then thought failed him while imagination
dwelt once more, or tried to dwell, upon some
last dread possible scene; the scene that might
have happened, nay, that must have happened,
as he now saw, on that night when the
schooner encountered the squall not more
than an hour or two after leaving Hild's
Haven. The most hopeful people had admitted
long ago that the end had come then.

All %e while the light was fading, the
waves gently rising and falling; and, as he
had done before, Hartas went down to the
beach to walk by the water's edge. There, if
anywhere, would be found some token — a
plank of wood, a portion of a rudder, a strip
of sail, or — or some other thing! Hartas
hardly dared to dwell upon the possibilities
that thrust themselves before his mind's eye.
He was now searching for all he dreaded
most to find.

He went down the cliff by a narrow but
little-used and difficult path ; indeed, it only
led to a farmhouse in the hollow by Alders
bank. There was just light enough for him
to discern the steps cut in the clay, a bit of
rude railing here and there in dangerous
parts.

At one turn, to his surprise, he came upon
a little lad, a child of not much more than
five or six summers, who was laboriously
climbing the steep steps, a big lump of brown
tangle in one hand, a scarlet something trailing
from the other arm.

1 Late for you to be down here, young man,
isn't it?' asked Hartas of the little fellow,

who looked up in silent stupidity, making no
effort to answer.

Then there was a pause — a shock — an
effort.

What have you got there? What is this? 1
Hartas Theyn asked at last, touching (as one
touches the cover that is upon the bed where
some one is taking a last rest) the scarlet
shawl that the child carried.

It was a very noticeable shawl — being made
of crochet-work, and having a wide white
border, with some black at the extreme edge
of that.

The little fellow began to whimper.

I fund it — I did. 'Twere lying' on the
sands,' he said almost tearfully. ' An' there
weren't nobody there — no, not nobody.'

'Tell me whereabouts you found it,' Hartas
asked, resting a reassuring hand upon the
child's shoulder. ' Where have you been ?'

1 Down there — aside the father.'

1 And this was lying upon the sands ?'

1 Ay, sir. . . . 'Twere nobbut just foot o'
the father' s edge.'

Hartas Theyn felt himself growing suddenly
weak, as one stricken by illness. Only by

vol. in. 48

determined effort could he keep sufficient
power to will and to do.

Not so long ago, wandering one night about
the Forecliff, he had seen Barbara Understanding
at the cottage door, the red shawl
thrown carelessly round her, her strong sweet
face uplifted as she stood watching the silver
clouds that were flying past a wan moon.
That was the last that he had seen of the
shawl that was in his hand now, still wet
with the salt sea water, still smelling of the
salt sea-wrack.

Go home, my little man, go home Hartas
said, speaking more gently and tenderly than
he knew.

Then, moving as one in a dream, he went
rapidly down to the beach, expecting (if
indeed he expected anything at all) only to
be mocked bv the exceeding nothingness to
be found there.

The child had pointed to a spot a little to
the northward, and at once Hartas set his face
that way. The daylight was gone from the
land, yet out over the sea there was a soft
silvery afterglow, and there, against the silver
light, was a dark outline, the outline of a

large mass of something that was lying upon
the beach. With beating heart and brain he
still went onward.

He could never afterwards recall that
moment when he first recognised that the
darkly outlined ridge was the upturned hull
of a wrecked vessel. Quite black, quite lone,
quite still, the hull rested upon the scar to
the north of the Balderstone, the dark line
of the keel crossing a bar of silver in the
sky.

Still nerving himself, he went on. He
would assure himself of the truth — of the
worst that might be true — before he yielded
to the lonoino- that was overcoming him — the
longing to care no more, to strive no more, to
suffer no more, to lie down and die ujoon the
wrack-strewn scar.

Then for awhile the afterglow that was in
the heavens seemed to increase in intensity.
Hartas Theyn was nearer now to the wreck
of the schooner, and in the dim light it
loomed as the remains of some large ship
had done.

The stern of the vessel was toward the
sea ; and Hartas went round among the

48—2

slippery pools and the weed - hung stones
among which the white-edged wavelets were
plashing sadly. Quite near he came — his
eyes seeming to throb and burn in his head,
his heart to beat as if it must burst within
him; for by this time the tide had turned and
the water was rising rapidly. If there had
been anyone in danger before, that danger
was increasing with every second.

It was, as he had known all the while, the
schooner in which Barbara and the little ones
had sailed — the white letters on the black
name-board attesting the fact. The inscription
was, of course, upside down, but he did
not need to read the words letter by letter.

The Land 0' ih? Leal: Hild's Haven.

This was what he saw; and then for awhile
he saw no more. The temporary oblivion was
most merciful.

ANOTHER SEA-STORY.

They know not that its sails are filled

By pity's tender breath,
Nor see the angel at the helm
Who steers the Ship of Death.'

J. G. Whittier.

If any member of the Psychological Society
were desiring new ground for his interesting
researches, it is probable that he could not do
better than betake himself to the remote
corners of the North Riding of Yorkshire.
There are nooks in the dale country, there
are hushing villages yet uncontaminated by
railways, where investigations might be made,
perhaps with results surprising to the most
vividly expectant. Legends and traditions
not only linger there, but are held with a
vitality that is most instructive to the true
student of humanity ; and as a field for the

study of comparative folk-lore it is probable
that this remote corner of the earth might be
found to repay real research far better than
others that are far more known.

Not altogether ' idle tales not altogether
old wives' fables,' are these brief dramas
that pass from lip to lip, from age to age.
There are those who assert that Homer himself
was but a singer of songs inspired by
the traditions of his own day. Do we take
the less account of him for that ?

Yes, it is intensely interesting to know
that one song, one story, one heroic tale,
has gone the round of the whole wide earth
like some gossamer circle, binding race to
race here, throwing light upon the customs
and beliefs of other races there. This is no
place to enter upon the fascinating theme;
yet it was impossible to avoid it altogether,
since during those days of anxiety in Ulvstan
Bight it was asserted everywhere that the
spectre-ship had been seen crossing the
Bight, not only once or twice, but assuredly
the third fatal time. And after that,
who should doubt? Who should dare to
doubt ?

That a ship — a tall, phantom-ship, with
white, wide-spread sails — should pass thrice
across the Bight before any especial disaster,
was a superstition believed in by all the older
people of Ulvstan; and the younger ones
seldom expressed any open disbelief.

When old Hagar Furniss spoke of her
vision of the night to the Rector of Hild's
Haven she was met with neither rebuke nor
ridicule.

'I saw it, sir, the Death-ship; I saw it
wi' my loan eyes!' the old woman declared.
An' 'twas noa dream. I'd been asleep —
ay, I'd slept for hours, so that it must ha'
been near midnight. An' when I wakened
there was a strange leet at the wind — a
strange breed leet: an' I sprung foot o' bed
an' went to the wind side. An' there it
were, sir, the Death-ship, sailing' past wiv all
her sails set, an' every sail like a sheet o'
spun glass. An' on she went, gliding' by as
never no ship went yet upon the saut sea
water. . . . An' then Ah knew 'at all were
covered ; 'at old Ephraim were tossing' toon i'
the dark sea-tangle ; 'at Barbarie an' her three
little bairns were where they couldn't look

upon the light o' daily. . . . And 'twere all
past in a minnie or two. There were nought
left save the sea an' sky, an' a dismal wind
wailing' i' the wind where the leet had been.
. . 'Twere all covered then, an' then I
knew.'

And this was last night — Monday night ?'

'Twere last night, sir the old woman
replied sadly and seriously. ' I'd not much
hope before — I've non noo.'

Canon Godfrey stood thinking. He recalled
to his mind the lifelong influence in
such matters that must have given strong
colouring to Hagar's expectation. The legend
of the spectral ship was, as he was
well aware, cherished in almost every quarter
of the globe. And remembering the poor
old creature's intense and affectionate anxiety
during the past few days, he felt as if he
himself, in her place, might also have persuaded
himself that he had seen the vision.

Xot for one moment did he accuse her of
deceitfulness, of misrepresentation. Some
ship or ships she had seen, some white-sailed
vessel gliding from mist to mist across the
summer night ; and her mind, apprehensive by

reason of her dread, had doubtless construed
the impressive and unusual natural into the
dread supernatural. He could not reason
with Hagar ; instead, he tried to comfort
her.

1 There are no tidings he said. ' But
you must not forget what strange things
have happened, even of late. It is not so
long since the Swallow was blown quite across
to Norway > and no news came for over a
week. More recently still, the two fishing-boats
belonging to the Grainger were lost
in a squall ; one came floating into the Bight
half-filled with water. Two days later the
nine men, who were being mourned for so
passionately, arrived by a late train. As
you know, they had been picked up far out
of their way by a passing steamer. . . .
What should hinder but that some such
deliverance should have been wrought now ?'

The poor old woman could ' only stand
silent, shaking her head negatively; deep in
her heart was the conviction that her sorrow
was that of those who sorrow for the dead.
And she did not err.

It was on that same night, but a few hours

later, that Hartas Theyn, recovering from a
temporary oblivion, found himself leaning
upon the sea wet side of an upturned ship.
There were tears on his face ; in his agony
he had wept aloud ; but to his astonishment
nay, to his appalling — there came an answer
to his weeping. It was an answer that
smote him to a strange and sudden coldness.
As he leaned upon the hull he heard a
distant and passionate, yet faint, knocking
within, on the cabin end of the hull. He
listened, unbelieving, yet again the knocking
came.

In answer to it he cried — he cried aloud.
But he could not be sure that he was heard.
He listened, he went round the vessel and
cried again, and listened again, yet he could
hear no answer. But again the knocking
came — twice, thrice repeated in the same
feebly impassioned manner ; and Hartas
Theyn took up a stone and beat a loud and
long reply upon the blackened side of the
little ship.

Good God ! was it possible that any human
being could be alive there — inside a ship that
had been tossing upside down by night and

by day upon that stormy waste of waters ? If
one were alive it was a strange, a miraculous
thing !

Hartas Theyn was not a seafaring man,
and he did not all at once realize his position.
He hoped to do something, to accomplish
some rescue, some deliverance immediately.
Not one glance or two at that stoutly-built
schooner, upturned there on the rocky shore of
the North Sea, showed him all his helplessness.

And moment by moment that far, faint,
entreating sound went on. It was as if
some one were crying in low, despairing
tones, saying : ' There is one here dying,
dying ! . . . Will you make no effort —
none f

Again Hartas Theyn beat out his reply,
again he cried his willingness, his intense
desire. And a sound came from within that
was as the sound of a human voice, but
whether of man, of woman, or of child he
could not tell.

And even as he stood there the leaping of
the white water about his feet awoke him to
a fresh horror. The tide was rising. Within
an hour or two this wrecked hull would be

floated off again : floated out to sea with its
burden of human life — despairing, appealing
human life.

He had no precedent to guide him in such
a case as this. Wrecked ships had washed
ashore, upturned and not upturned ; crow r ned
men had washed up, and men exhausted,
yet not drowned; but that a hulk should
come to land, turned upside down, and so
every entrance to its interior closed w r hile yet
there was life inside, was an occurrence of
unexampled horror. What might be clone?'

I can do nothing alone /' he cried, putting
his mouth to a plank that he fancied had
started ' a little, and so might afford some
ingress for the sound of his voice. ' I can
do nothing alone. . . . There is no time to
be lost ! . . . The tide is coming up. . I
will go and get help — a man or two who will
help me to cut a hole in the hull ! . . . Keep
quiet! . . . Have courage! I won't he a
second longer than I can help!' So Hart as
Theyn shouted, sentence by sentence, and at
the last there was a pause. ' Knock again,
if you can!' he begged. 'Give three
knocks !'

And the three knocks came — low, full of
effort, eloquent of pain.

A strange thrill shot through Hartas Theyn
as he heard them. He could not think — he
dared not. One more word of encouragement
he sent back, hoping only that it might
be heard ; then with swiftest footsteps he
went back to the Bight.

He was breathless when he reached the
little town. It was midnight ; not a light ina
window was there to guide him. Yet he
found the house where David Andoe lived;
and, to his extreme satisfaction, he found that
David had come over from Danesborough to
spend the night. He often did so, more for
the sake of being present at the prayer meeting
in Zion Chapel than for any other reason.
Whatever the cause to-night, he was glad to be
there to answer Hartas Theyn's sudden and
impetuous demand.

He had opened the door of the cottage at
once, and stood there dressing himself hastily
in the starlight as he listened to the strange
story that Hartas had to tell. David was
quite quiet and very pale, yet he did not lose a
second.

1 I'll get Fossette and Joe Canton, carpenters,
both o' them, wi J their tools ready i the
step. . . . Come on, sir, every few minutes
means a few inches more o' water f

It might be a quarter of an hour later when
some six or seven men surrounded the hull of
the Land d the Leal. There was now no more
fear that all human help that could be of avail
would not be given. Yet those who best
understood had most dread.

The tide had risen inevitably, and to a
fearful seeming extent. By the time the
little band of men came to the upturned
vessel, it was already floating.

David Andoe, making a desperate dash at
a moment while the waves were receding,,
managed to reach the hull, to hold on to it,
and to offer some slight assistance to Hartas
Theyn, who had instantly followed him.

As the next wave went back three more
men, each with some powerful or useful tool
in his hand, managed to reach the wreck ;
and as they clung there, trying to make some
arrangement among themselves as to the best
method of proceeding, again the knocking
was heard — that far, faint pleading sound that

struck upon the ear of each one who listened
as only sounds from inside some vault or
grave could have done. There was for these
men much the same surprise, much the same
horror, as they had felt on hearing some cry
from below the churchyard sod. Yet they
thanked God audibly that the sound could
still be heard.

While there's life there's hope of life,'
David Andoe concluded ; and no more
time was wasted in words. The men set
to work, one and all, hacking, hewing, with
passionate vigour. Besides their knowledge
of the construction of the vessel, of the
position of the one cabin where alone anyone
might be and live, they had also the
oft-repeated but fainter-growing sounds to
direct them. This told them that they were
not really far from the hand that was making
that pitiful and most beseeching appeal. Yet
for all their effort they were not too sanguine.

To those who know nothing of the building
of even the smallest ship, it must seem as if it
should have been an exceedingly simple and
easy thing to make entrance through the side
of a little coasting schooner. The boring of

a worm can cause a leak to spring in the hull
of a huge West-indiamen. A sudden touch
upon a rock will make opening wide enough
for the entrance of water sufficient to sink
the largest vessel afloat. How strange it
seems that half-a-dozen men must bend their
utmost effort for some time to cut a space
wide enough for the egress of a living man or
woman.

Some man or woman ! To the last moment
Hartas Theyn would not let himself think.
To think would, inevitably, be to hope. A hope
only born to die is one of the bitterest hopes
the human heart can hold. It seemed to him
that he already felt the touch of the bitterness
to be.

IN THAT SAD NIGHT.

Yet it may be that death
Shall give my name a power to win such tears
As would have made life precious.'

Still they wrought there, making efforts
more and more passionately earnest with each
minute that went by. Only now and then
that low knocking came, just to guide them,
as it were, to where that terrible suffering was
being endured. Very terrible it must be, as
they knew, whether the sufferer were man,
woman, or child.

They did not talk much, these desperate
men. The rising tide, rising rapidly, caused
a perpetual rush and swish of water. All
the while it was advancing, receding, advancing
yet farther. And the wind was increasing
a little, wailing among the dark rocks, adding

vol. in. 4to

the ripple that was upon the water, lending
a certain sadness and wildness to an hour that
was sufficiently sad. No man there had known
an hour so strange before.

It was past two o'clock when the clouds
swept away from the waning moon. It gave
but little light, being shrouded from time to
time with the gray scud that was flying over
the heavens. When it was freest a broad
amber halo was seen to surround it, always an
ominous sight to the fishermen of the North.

Pallid as was this light, it was welcome —
most welcome to the men there on the upturned
hull, riving, striving, rending most
strenuously among the close-grained planks.
They knew what they were encountering.
They had not now to learn the strength and
toughness of l a Hill's Haven bottom ' the
best and stoutest bottoms used in England,'
so Dublin had declared many a long year
before. And more than one story of the
tenacity of ships built at Hild's Haven passed
through the minds of these men who were
spending themselves in that work of deliverance.


Can it be realized that some hours had

passed before any opening had been made
that could be called an entrance ? All this
while Hartas Theyn and David Andoe had
wrought side by side.

And all the time I was feeling as if every
stroke of my hatchet was striking down what
was left of the barrier that had existed between
him and me Hartas Theyn confessed after.
4 1 couldn't understand it. It wasn't my
doing. . . . There was something about him,
a sort of gentleness, a sort of tender-hearted
kindliness and humble-mindedness, as if he
were wishing, all the while, to do something
for me. He watched me every time I moved,
saved me when I slipped, helped nie when I
climbed, and, as I recognised later, tried to
make the night easier for me than it was for
anybody else. When I remonstrated, he reminded
me of what I had gone through myself,
and not so long before.'

An' you're not as we are, sir he added.
We're used to the night, an' the sea, an' the
wind, an' to hardship o' every sort. It's
nought to us — that is, the exposure's nought.
But I reckon we've non on us snowed
nought of a piece o' work like this — xcii,.

49-— 2

nought like this. . . . God grant they
may non of 'em know nought like it
again.'

And all the while, as the men wrought
desperately there, the waning moon went sailing
to the land ; all the while the wind was
rising, all the while the waves were advancing
and falling: and tossing. At last the fears that
had been growing in the hearts of the men at
work there took on expression.

What were we thinking on — what could
we be thinking on never to bring a boat, never
to fetch noa boat!'

It was David Andoe who asked the question
; and the time was somewhere about three
in the morning. The same question had been
in the minds of the other men ; they had
needed courage to put it into words. More
and more they had needed it as the necessity
for asking it became evident.

The hull had been floating some time — now
it was drifting out to sea ; drifting with all its
burden of life ; its twofold burden — within
and without.

I've snowed it all along,' Joe Canton said
calmly. ' I've seen how it would be

But you can swim, can't } t ou, Joe ?' David
Andoe asked.

1 Ay — if Ah seed any good 'i swimming

1 Then you're waiting' to be asked ? This
isn't the time for it. Swim ashore as quick
as you can, an' fetch the first boat to be had
for love or money, never mind which.'

This was not a difficult matter, but it took
time, a longer time than had been foreseen.
And it was time passed in pain of various
kinds ; for faster and faster the ship was drifting
out to sea, still upturned, still bearing its
burden of life. But a new strain was added
to the tension of the hour. There was no
longer any response from the interior of the
hull, and finding this there was no heart there
but sank to a lower depth than it had known
before. Hartas Theyn felt that the tools in his
hand were now all but useless, and even David
Andoe knew that he was becoming unnerved.
Yet they strove on ; and to good purpose.

Work away, mates,' David Andoe begged.
In another quarter of an hour we'll be able
to enter the hull, some of us.'

Joe'll be here wi' Markham's boat i' less nor
that,' was the reply of Will Hewitt.

But both men were mistaken in the matter
of time. The moon was forty minutes farther
on her way when at last an entrance was
effected into the cabin of the Land o the Leal.

Few words were spoken.

Go you in,' David Andoe had said to
Hartas, when at last it was possible for anyone
to enter. And as he spoke David struck
a match and lighted a tiny lantern that had
hung at his belt. ' Go you in. If she be
living' she'll be add to see you.'

s> j

y<

Hartas Theyn, white, nay pallid, between
the light of the dim lantern and the waning
moon, looked into David's face for one hesitate
moment. A thousand thoughts passed through
his overstrained brain.

The task was not without difficulty — not
without danger — this he knew ; and this it
was decided him to accept the offer made in
all generosity. David Andoe would have
been glad to go down into that dark depth
himself, and he had done it with greater
facility than could be claimed by the man who
went.

He went with a prayer on his lips. The
hull was beginning to toss a little wildly and

awkwardly in that dark sea. And he knew
there were no means of guiding or steadying
it in the slightest degree.

And there was yet no sign of the 
boat. Hartas turned to look out
across the dark surging water as he took the
lantern in one hand, steadying himself by
grasping the newly chipped edges of the
planks with the other.

1 Put yer foot there,' David Andoe urged,
an' lean to the left — to the left, sir! Then
forrard — a bit more forrard. . . . Hold the
lantern up ! Ay, hold it so ; an' press
forwards!'

It was just at the moment that Hartas
Theyn was descending through the aperture
made in the bottom of the little schooner,
that suddenly, though perhaps not altogether
unexpectedly, the hull lurched terribly to one
side.

All happened, so to speak, in a moment.
Hartas had entered the tiny cabin ; he had
discovered at a glance that it already seemed
filled with water. But there, over on one
side, was a sight to tax the manhood within
him to the uttermost. He looked, he shrank,

he compelled himself to look again, and from
his white lips a cry burst — a cry of bitterest
anguish :

Barbara, Barbara ! for God's sake speak
to me — speak one word! Say you are alive V

The word might have been said, for Barbara
Burclas was still living ; but it was at
that moment that the unmanageable hull of
the wrecked schooner gave a tremendous roll
to the leeward side.

The girl was there in the cabin ; she had
been there with the water up to her waist —
nay, higher — for many hours ; and there,
beside her, their little plump white hands
clinging in her strong, beautiful hair, were
the three little children.

Hartas Theyn did not know then that
two of these little ones were dead. He did
not know then that the small white Fingers
entwined in the broad red plaits had been
entwined in the death-agony that had ended
hours agone. Barbara knew. She had known
it all, lived through it all, and was living
yet. She turned her face to Hartas as he
entered — a white, rigid, agonized face. . . .
She could not speak. The dim lantern threw

but a faint light. Hartas saw the look turned
upon him — that appealing, bewildered look —
and he saw the other faces behind — one lying
white and cold upon Barbara's neck, but yet
living. The others he had no time to see.
No time at all was his, for hardly had he
entered the cabin — already three-parts filled
with water — when another terrible roll turned
the wrecked hull completely on the other
side. The water rose even as he looked —
rose till it encircled the throat of the girl,
and only by her utmost effort could she
uplift the one child yet living above the
lifeless forms of the two not alive. Hartas
rushed toward her, seized the child — it w r as
the baby Ildy — and with his disengaged arm
he tried to reach Barbara herself; but she
drew back.

Save the little one,' she said in a faint
whisper, only just to be heard above the
gurgling, and rushing, and washing of the
water — ' save Ildy ; she's the only one left to
be saved.'

Save her ! But how ? The child's fingers
were not easily disentangled from the girl's
long wet hair ; the other little dead white

hands, rigid, cold, must be left for some one
else to unclose. He would do what he could
for those left living.

1 Can you follow me — can you make any
effort to follow me?' Hartas asked of the
exhausted girl. But she only shook her
head, and held out to him her two poor
hands.

One may not here use the words others
used freely in describing those hands. They
had been used in knocking upon the rough
inner side of the ship's hull, so long, and
with such agonizing effort, that not even the
water that reached to the topmost beam might
wash away that which is the sign and mark
of the extreme of suffering everywhere.

In a few minutes more the living child
was safe in the strong arm of one of the men
outside; the two children not living were
lifted tenderly and gently out from the water-filled
cabin. Then, just as David Andoe and
Hartas Theyn were helping Barbara, taking
her from out of that dread and terrible prison-house
wherein she had suffered so long and
so unspeakably, just at that moment the boat
was seen coming swiftly over the dark, gray,

restless waters. The waning moon had
dropped behind the land, large and low, and
having, as it were, a presage of ill yet to be
in its weird aspect; bat only one of these
rescuers noted the strange light, the still
stranger shadows. The boat came onward.
It was received with a subdued shout of
welcome ; and as the rowers turned the corner
of the stern of the swaying hull and pulled
up to the side on which Barbara Burdas was
lying pale, exhausted, at least one strong man
felt the unaccustomed burning of hot tears on
his face.

God be thanked !' David Andoe said reverently,
as he caught the delivering boat by one
of the rowlocks. Hartas Theyn and another
man were helping Barbara to rise from thew
r et, dark planks of the wrecked hull. ' God
be thanked !' he repeated; and no one remembered
any other word of his.

1 AND After MY LONG VOYAGE I SHALL
REST.'

1 Here is one who loves you as of old,
With more exceeding passion than of old.'

As Barbara Burdas was lifted carefully,
tenderly, by strong and tender arms into
the fishing-coble (the Lucy Ann, of Ulvstan
Bight), she heard a voice speaking low at her
side:

Your grandfather — where is he ? Xot in
the cabin ?'

Barbara hesitated, a sob escaped her lips,
then she said with much effort :

jSTo ; he's not there — there's no one there!'

She could say no more. She knew that
the one living child — the child of her dead
friend — was yet alive ; that it was safe in the
arms of the fisherman who had seated himself

in the stern of the coble that was as an ark of
safety ; and it seemed to her, in her dread
exhaustion, that there was little else she cared
to know just then.

Stature demanded a time of oblivion — a
time of forgetfulness of all that she had gone
through — of all that she had been delivered
from. To know that she might now not only
cease from suffering, from enduring, from
dreading, from hoping, from praying, but also
from living, was knowledge to be grateful
for.

She sank down between the planks of the
boat, near to the man who was holding the
child so carefully, and then, closing her
eyes, she knew no more for awhile. It was
well that she did not. It was not a long
while : but it was long enough for that to
happen which was to cause her and others
many a long hour of bitter pain — of keen
regret.

They were all seated in the coble, the
rescuers and the rescued ; her bow was turned
to the Bight. The rowers had set themselves
to work with a will.

The Lucy Ann was a well-built craft, and,

free of fish or nets, would have carried sixteen
or eighteen men without being overladen ; but
the Lucy Ann had no fair chance that dim,,
gray morning. It was really morning now.
At first a gray dawn spread slowly across the
sky ; then, as the sun uprose, a few faint pink
and silver clouds shot pink and silvery rays
across the sea.

The Lucy Ann had her crew and passengers
all on board. The rowers, four of them, were
at the oars ; but the craft was not, as was soon
perceived, laden with due balance. The boat
clipped deeply on one side.

4 Wad ya mind changing' yer seat, sir ?*
Joe (wanton asked, looking to Hartas Theyn,
who was on the starboard side of the coble,
which was dipping almost into the rippling
water.

Hartas rose at once, weak with emotion,
unsteady with exhaustion ; and before anyone
knew what had happened he had overbalanced
himself, and was struggling in the white
waves at the side of the fishing-coble. He
could not swim ; and David Andoe, unfortunately
for himself, knew that he could
not.

David uttered no word ; he waited one
second till the Squire's son rose to the surface
at the stern of the Lucy Ann, then he leapt
overboard. And everyone in the fishing-coble
was glad, for Hartas Theyn was saved.
It was only the work of a minute or two to
bring the boat round, to draw the two men onboard.
It was not till long afterward that
they knew that one living man had been
drawn out of the sea, and one man who was
dead.

Why David Andoe had died in that perilous
moment was more than even Dr. Douglas
could say; but the doctor was Christian
enough not to insist upon knowing — upon
investigating what scientists would term the
exact cause. What did it matter whether a
vein in the man's brain had burst ; whether a
valve in the heart had ceased to act — of what
value to anyone could such merely technical
information be ? He had lain down his life ;
and only the man for whom he had done this
knew how surely David Andoe himself would
have said ' for a friend.'

By the time the Lucy Ann touched the
shore of Ulvstan Bight, it seemed as if the

whole village must be there. It was nearly
daylight now. A cool, soft breeze was upon
land and sea ; the tide was at its height. The
coble had to be rowed quite close up to the
quay on which the struggling crowds were
standing, each one anxious to see, to learn if
there could be truth in the strange story that
had sped from lip to lip with the rising of the
sun.

No one spoke as Barbara was lifted out ;
it seemed as if no one had courage to ask if
she were living or not. A few saw her pallid
face as she was borne away ; it looked very
rigid, very death-like. A murmur swayed
through the crowd as of mingled awe and
compassion.

The next to be brought ashore was little
Ildy ; and the child sat up in the arms of the
fisherman wmo carried her, and smiled as
she passed. More than one wept to see the
smile, it w T as so wan, so weak.

There was much weeping in Ulvstan Bight
that morning. As for Ailsie, the old fishwives
said one to another : ' She were thrown
back fra the sea, and the sea was sure to
claim her aofain.' Still they shed tears for

her, for the little one had been loved, and
loving.

It was not until Hartas Theyn had been
assisted to land that the real truth with
regard to David Ancloe became known.
Hartas himself did not know it. He had
been sitting quite close to the dead fisherman:
he had noticed not only the silence, the
pallor, but that strange and inexplicable
change that comes over the features when
the ' fever called living ' is over for ever.
These things he had seen, and a great dread
had come down upon him — an overwhelming
dread. Was not the tale of disaster complete
before ?

Coming in over the gray weaves in the
morning light, listening all unconsciously to
the dip of the oars, watching the growing
beauty of the dead face, not knowing surely
that it was death he looked upon, the remembrance
of that meeting on the Scar at midnight
came over him with force; yet it was
not a painful remembrance.

He could feel again the touch — the warm
clasp of the fisherman's hand when they

vol. in. 50

parted. That hand was quite close to him
now, but for very reverence he refrained from
laying upon it his own.

And now — now he stood upon the crowded
slip-way; and others helped to raise David
Andoe, thinking that he must have fainted
from exhaustion.

They spoke to him as they raised him from
his seat in the boat, but he did not answer.
One, more clear-sighted than the rest, covered
him with a piece of sail-cloth : he did not
resist.

Unfortunately for herself, poor old Susan
Andoe met the small procession as it began
to wind up the way to the ForeclifF. Her
cry rings yet in the ear of some who
heard it.

'Davy, my Davy!' she cried passionately.
Let ma speak to him! AVill ya? He's my
loan — let ma speak to him !'

She would have flung herself upon the
roughly-shrouded figure but for those who
were near to prevent her. All the way up
the cliff she followed, and cried with tremulous
lips and sobbing breath :

1 Davy, my Davy ! If ya will but speak !
Ali'll be a better mother to ya, my lad —
eh, Ah will! Ah'll be a better mother nor
ever Ah've been before ! Nobbut speak to
ma!'

barbara

S STORY.

1 His was the fate to suffer grievous woe,
And mine to mourn without forgets fulness.'

Worsley's Odyssey.

i Dear Uncle Hugh,' Thorhilda had written
late one night in haste, ' I have just seen
yesterday's newspaper. What is this terrible
story about a ship being found floating bottom
upward, filled with water, and some Ulvstan
Bight fisher-folk still alive in the cabin? Can
it be true? Please tell me all particulars
very soon. Are they, any of them, people I
know ?'

There was more than this in the letter —
much more. Some things there were that
made the Canon glad, and some that made
him sad. The mere sight of his niece's
handwriting always now made his heart ache.

Over a week lead elapsed between the
disaster and the day when Canon Godfrey
listened to the details as Barbara Burdas alone
could tell them.

Inevitably it had been a week of pain, but
Barbara wondered at herself that the pain
was not deeper. She had stood in the
churchyard by the open graves on that clay
when David Andoe was laid by the side of
his sister, when her little Ailsie and Stevie
had been laid to rest in the grave of their
own mother, and through it all she had shed
no tear.

Hartas Theyn, standing opposite to her,
watching the white set face of the woman he
loved, would rather have seen her weep. He
had enough insight into her true character
to know all that her apparent self-control
meant. Some there were there who considered
her calmness to be apathy ; others
wondered if it were possible that the terrible
experience she had gone through should have
left some cloud on her brain, some dulness,
some incapacity; and in truth these did not
altogether mistake, as Canon Godfrey perceived.


All that Barbara could tell she told me
very calmly,' he said, in writing to Miss
Theyn. ' She told me how the storm came
on suddenly a few hours after they left Hild's
Haven — how the captain had insisted upon
her and the three children being fastened
down in the cabin.

" And he wanted my grandfather to stay
in the cabin with us," Barbara said. " And I
begged him to stay 7 myself, for I knew it was
but little use he'd be on deck if a sale came
on; but he wouldn't listen — no, not for a
moment, and Captain Balloon had no time
to waste just then. I could hear that preparations
for the worst were being made. After
we were made safe — safe as they thought, I
heard strange noises on deck, as if the sea
were sweeping over the schooner, and by-and-by,
sometime during that first night, a mast
fell; I judged it to be the mainmast; but the
children slept on through it all, all three of
them — Ildy on my knee, and Steve and Ailsie
in the captain's berth.

" It must have been some hours afterward
when the second mast went by the board. I
heard the captain shouting to Peter Grainger,

and I listened for some reply, but none ever
came. And all the while the schooner was
driving on, rolling, rocking, tossing. I judged
it was quite unmanageable. And all the
while I was hearkening for my grandfather's
voice, but I never heard it, no, not once after
we were shut into the cabin. . . . I've thought
since that perhaps he went soon on in the
storm, and that was why the captain never
came near the cabin-door ; no, not so much
as to tell me how the night was going, or to
ask if I wanted aught for the children. 'Twas
not like him to keep away in that manner,
and there was plenty of opportunities, for,
as I said afore, 'twere more like a succession
of severe squalls nor like a regular gale; and
every now and then there was something
that was almost like a calm, so that anybody
might have brought us a word of comfort, if
there was any to bring, or anyone to bring it.
I've thought since that there might not be,
especially after that time when the captain
cried so loud to Peter. It's strong in my
mind that when the second mast went overboard,
Peter Grainger went with it, and that
after that the captain would be there at the

helm all alone — all alone on the storm-swept
deck of that bare hull. I could see him, so to
speak. . I can see him now."

All this Barbara told me quite quietly.
She seemed to be living through the dread
and terror over again, and to have the same
calm strength that had helped her and supported
her then.

There was a pause in her story after she
had seemed to see the captain standing before
her. When she began again she seemed a
little confused, as if not able easily to find
words for all that came after. Hitherto she
had spoken just as I have written, with an
easy flow of words — simple English words —
but evidently now and then echoing some
phrase of some rather archaic book. Her
voice is lower and sweeter than ever ; her
sad, simple manner is most touching; and
naturally these new sorrows have lent a new
elevation. Lent — nay, that is not the word at
all. It will not depart.

1 When she took up her story again, she
was like one awakening from a dreadful
sleep.

" It must have been a long time," she said,

a very long time that we were tossing there,
but I'd no means of knowing how long. I
only remember that Udy wakened now and
then ; and I gave her a little milk so long as
there was any in the bottle ; and when there
was no more she fretted a bit ; but she always
fell asleep again. The others slept strangely ;
and I teas glad.

" Now and then there was a time of comparative
calm. I heard the roar of the water
and of the wind, but not near so bad as during
the squalls ; and there was very little noise
overhead. A chain rattled as the hull rocked
up and down; now and then some part of the
dismantled ship gave a creak or a groan, and
there was something that I thought might bea
water-cask rolling to and fro on deck with
the lurching of the vessel; but there was no
footstep, no, none at all; and there was no
voice. Once I thought I'd rise to my feet,
and knock and ask Captain Balloon if he knew
where we were ; but somehow I'd no strength
to do it. And yet, no,' twas not strength I
wanted, but — but courage.

1 ci The things I was beginning to fear were
such terrible things that I dreaded the moment

when I must find that they were more than
fears.

" I'll never know — I think it never can be
known — whether or no through all these
hours the captain was at the helm or no.
As I've said, I heard no voice, no footstep;
no, not though I held my very breath to
listen.

" I can't say how long that time that was
almost a time of calm had lasted. I fancied at
times that there was a ray of faint light in a
chink overhead, but I couldn't be sure. And
then, as I listened, I began to be aware that
another squall was coming on ; not quite
so sudden as some of them had come, but
I liked the sound of it none the better for
that

4 ' ; The wind deepened and hoarsened, and
now it was like a long, low wail, and now
it was like a wild shriek, and the hull strained
and groaned, and it rolled and tossed, and I
knew that the sea must be making worse than
ever before.

" Did I pray? you ask me, sir. I'd been
praying at intervals all the while — not kneeling
down much, for which I was sorry; but the

child was on my knee, and I dreaded to wake
her for fear of awakening the others. I prayed
that they might go on sleeping; and their sleep
was beautiful to me. I could not see them, but
I could hear their soft, regular breathing.
And once Ailsie spoke in her sleep — that
was a way she had always from being a
baby.

" ' It's that lady, Miss Theyn,' she said, in
the voice that I knew to be her dream-voice.
It's Miss Theyn ; her that gave me the
Christmas cards, and touched them all so
gentle with her gentle hands. And she's
going up a hill — such a high green hill ! and
she can't get up ; no, she can't. Oh, Barbara,
go an' help her ; she's slipping' back at every
step an' hardly getting any further at all.
An' she does so want to get to the top!
I can see why ! I can see it all now. There's
a beautiful city over the hill, an' she wants
to go there, but she can't get up that green
hillside. Oh, why can't she ? Why ? Will
nobody help her ?' "

1 This is just what Barbara told me, Thorda,
dear. Can you put a meaning to it ? I wish
the dream had gone a little farther ; that

Ailsie had seen the help coming ! Isn't that
childish of me ? I am coming with the help
myself one of these summer days.

" It was soon after Ailsie had done talking
in her dream," Barbara went on, " that
the schooner began to heave and toss more
fearfully than ever before. It seemed to be
plunging through the waves as a wild beast
might plunge through a forest. We were
driven on and on, and now one side of the
cabin was uppermost and now the other, and
the roar of wind and wave was deafening by
this time.

" It was just then that a strange kind of
terror came over me. It was not — I do think
it was not the terror of death, for I had given
up my soul, with all its sins and all its shortcomings,
just as it was, into the hands of God.
And as for the little ones — well, I prayed for
them too, and I'd no fear.

" From time to time I'd been saying
a verse of that hymn, Just as I am, without
one plea, and it had been as comforting
as Bible words themselves, for of course,
they are Bible words just put into verse ;
that's why they comfort one so.

1 " There was one verse especially that
seemed to come of itself ; over and over it
rang in my ears when I wasn't thinking of
saying it. It was this :

1 " ' Just as I am, and waiting not

To cleanse my soul of one dark blot,
To Thee, Whose blood can cleanse each spot,
Lamb of God, I come.'

" I'd just been saying that, or no, I'd
better say listening to it, when — when. . . .
Oh, Mr. Godfrey, how will I ever speak of
that moment ? I've never spoke of it yet,
never to no one. . . . But I want to speak
of it. It will be better if I can. . . . Then,
maybe, I'll not suffer so. For I do suffer.
All night long that moment is before me. I
live through it again with such terrible vividness
that it has even seemed to me that I
might die of the vision of things I lived
through in reality.

" How will I tell you of what happened ?
As I said, the dismasted hull of the
schooner had been plunging onward, driven
hither and thither for some time. . . And a
kind of terror had thrilled through me once,

just once. Then that verse came, and I was
growing quieter, when all at once I knew that
the schooner was sinking.

" I felt it going down sideways. There
was change in the sounds all about, not a
lull in the sounds' intensity, but a dread and
awful change.

" I wakened the children, hardly knowing
what I was doing, but somehow I didn't wish
them to be drowned — to die — in their sleep.
Heaven only knows how I repented of that
deed afterwards. It would have been so easy
for them, so painless. As it was, their suffering
was very great, and every pang I had to
witness smote me like a sin.

'"I was telling you of the moment when
the ship sank. She went over on her side,
slowly. The water rushed into the cabin.
. . I tried to calm the children. My little
Stephen was terribly alarmed ; and I had to
give more attention to him.

" There was a table in the cabin ; and, unlike
most cabin* tables, it was not a fixture.
Seeing that it floated, I placed the children
on it, and tried to keeji it in one corner, but
I could not. The hull was swaying up and

down on its side ; and the cabin was half-filled
with water.

4 " Ailsie was very white, but she was very
still. Seeing that the water was up to my
waist, she kissed me, and said, ' You'll take
cold, Barbie, do come up here on the table.'
And to comfort her I did lean over, holding
on by the beam just above. Fortunately
there was a sort of iron holdfast driven into
the beam, and I took off my apron and twined
it round, so that the children might have
something to cling to. But this was not for
long. I cannot say how long. I had got
Stevie quieted again. I told him of Christ
walking on the water, and said that I believed
He wasn't very far away from us. Then he
put his arm round my neck, and twined his
hands in my hair, which had all fallen loose
in the tossing to and fro. After a little while
Ailsie kissed me again, and laid her head on
my other shoulder ; and her hands got
tangled in my hair as well. Ildy was still
asleep. She slept strangely all through the
worst of everything. For some time, it might
be an hour, it might be more, I stood thereby
the table. The water rose and fell with

the rising and falling of the hull ; it was very
cold, and chilled us to the marrow ; but we
seemed to get used to that.

" Once or twice Stevie slept awhile ; and
once or twice I sang, just little snatches of
hymns the children liked. It seemed to quiet
them when they grew frightened. But they
were strangely little frighted : they didn't
know that all was covered ; and I could not
tell them.

" No, I don't know how long it was
before, at last, the hull turned completely
bottom upward. It gave a lurch, the water
rose all at once, it rose to my very throat,
for a minute or two. I held Ildy up above it
with one hand, and Ailsie with the other.
Stevie was still holding by my hair, and that
kept him up.

6 " I knew now that the vessel was quite
upside down, and that it was floating on
over the sea, tossed to and fro in the storm.
And I also knew that we four were the only
living beings on the hull. Xo man on deck
could have outlived the capsizing of the
schooner. It was very strange ; I'd no wish
to live ; and yet it didn't seem right to die

till I was forced. Besides, I knew that I
must outlive the last of the children. That
was nearly all I prayed for.

4 " 'Twas a desperate time and long. . . .
Lord, how long! They say now it was
only a day and a night from the upturning
of the schooner; but then I can't think they
know. I knew! Standing there with the
cold sea-water up to my throat, and three
children clinging to my hair, / knew. . . .
God, I'll know always! I'll feel those
hands in my hair till I die! I can't tell you
no more, sir ; my strength fails when I think
of it.

i " I don't rightly remember when I knew
that Stevie was dead. He died first, which
you wouldn't have thought, him being so
much stronger than Ailsie. But he died
first. Yet his hands never left my hair. He
was clinging to that when — when they found
us. And little Ailsie's hands were twining
close to his, so they said. I had known that
she was dead. . Oh yes, I had known
that for days.

1 " And I remember so well the last word
she said. The water was swaying and toss-vol.

III. 51

ing about the dark cabin rather wildly just
then ; and she was swayed and tossed with it,
and the little one that was dead was tossing
too. I think that pained me even more than
the other. And I knew by Ailsie's voice that
she was getting near the end.

1 u c Can ya kiss me, Barbie ?' she begged.
Can ya kiss me just once ?'

" So I tried to turn my head, and I felt a
little cold wet hand pressing my cold face. . ,
And somehow the kiss was given. Then the
little one drifted further from me, keeping
one hand in my hair always. And the last
I heard was a word of prayer.

" ' Lift me out of the water, good Jesus ;
lift me away, for I'm tired — desert tired.
Lift me away out o' this dark water.'

4 " I did not know when she went. . . .
For many hours I knew nothing.

" You know the rest, Canon Godfrey, how
we were saved — the child and me. It is a
miracle — more and more as I am able to
think, I see that the saving of us two was a
miraculous thing. Who took care of the
little one, and kept the life in her, when life
was all but gone from myself ?

1 " Do you know I have a strong and
strange feeling that her being saved was for
some strong and strange design. . . . Will
you think of that, sir — will you remember
it ? Will you write it down that I have said
that I believe that Illa, the child of Anna
Tyas, was strangely saved from a strange
death that her life might be of some especial
use ; perhaps lived to some especial purpose ?
I cannot see, not yet ; but I think that I
shall see." '

And God grant that you may,' replied
the Rector of Yarburgh, rising from his seat
in Barbara's cottage. It was hers only now.
Presently, by way of parting words, he said :
You have asked me to note the child's life.
I shall not be here to note it. . . . But

I will leave the words that you have said in
writing for those who come after me.'

You will not be here V Barbara asked, with
lips whiter than they had been before.

No,' the Canon replied calmly ; but seeing
the girl's distress, he added a word of comfort.

I I shall not be here,' he said, ' but I trust
that I shall be with those who thank God
because they are at rest. . . . Yes, at rest!

51—2

. . You, yourself, must know what it is to
be weary ; to crave for rest when weariness is
a burden too heavy to be borne. . . . Think
so of me, when you think at alt, as of one
only too glad to reach the haven where he
has longed to be. . . . But I am anticipating,'
he said, with a sweet sudden smile as he
turned away. ' The end is not yet.'

'and now the day is nearly done.'

When the unfit
Contrarious moods of men recoil away,

And isolate pure spirits, and permit
A place to stand and love in for a day,

With darkness and the death-hour rounding it.'
E. B. Browning : Sonnets from the Portuguese.

1 A dull little place,' say some visitors from
London, promenading slowly up and down
the quay at Ulvstan Bight. Once more it is
summer; once more the skies make a deep
blue background, against which the white
wings of the sea-gulls may flit and circle ;
once more the fishing-fleet lies off the land
on still evenings, swaying slowly to and fro
in the sunny yellow mist. On the moor, far
up above the Bight, the heather is bursting
into bloom ; the foxgloves rise above the
green bracken ; by the stony waysides the

little blue harebell stirs and quivers to the
light evening breeze. Late as it is a lark is
singing overhead, and by-and-by a robin
perched on a stunted hawthorn-bush chirps
out a vesper song of his own.

'"A dull little place!" they say Canon
Godfrey repeated half audibly, and with a
smile not free from pity on his face.

He was so glad to be ' dull ' — in other
words, to have a time of perfect quiet, made
more perfect by the exceeding beauty of the
place and of the hour.

How long he had been up there on the
moorland height, drinking in the fresh, free
air, the welcome stillness, feeling his very
soul within him soothed and healed as he
stood or walked, and listened and gazed, he
hardly knew.

One such hour is worth days of troubled
living,' he said to himself. ' It is good to be
here.'

But his enjoyment of solitude was almost at
an end. Carriage-wheels were heard grinding
slowly up the stony hill, and inevitably a
momentary sense of annoyance came upon him.
But this departed as suddenly as it came.

When Mrs. Meredith stopped her carriage
to speak to hin, he was able to lift a quite
unclouded face. Yet, as she saw, it was a
very weary face ; almost she felt a shock as
she looked into it. Only the kind blue eyes
were unchanged.

She had something to tell to Canon Godfrey.
She had meant to announce it, but being softened
by the sight of him, her mood was much
modified.

- Will you drive with me a little way ?' she
asked. ' All the way, if you can. Won't
the first grouse of the year tempt you?'

- The first grouse!' Hugh Godfrey repeated,
in a quiet and meditative way. ' How cruel
of you to mention it ! You know that Diligent
is waiting for me ; and though not
exactly a henpecked husband '

< Oh, hush ! Won't I tell your wife !'
Very well ; only come and tell her soon.
Will you come to luncheon tomorrow? I am
afraid I can't promise grouse — not yet awhile.'
Mrs. Meredith hesitated a moment; and
Canon Godfrey could hardly help watching
her, wondering in much perplexity what
might be the meaning of this great and

sudden change of attitude. From that
winter's day with its dread disaster till now,
she had never relaxed from her first severity
of mood and manner. Certainly there must
be some reason for the change.

No, I won't come to-morrow Mrs. Meredith
replied. She was one of those people
who can be most graciously ungracious without
giving offence. c Not tomorrow,' she
repeated. ' I have something to tell you. I
will tell you now; and then I will accept the
first invitation that comes from the Rectory
afterward. . . . Not that I have anything to
fear — of course not!' she added, with a short
little laugh of superiority. ' It is quite the
other way. You should be glad of my news;
for every reason you should be glad. . . .
Percival is going to be married.'

The Canon looked into Mrs. Meredith's
face with a quick, glad, half surprised look on
his own. Then he held out his hand, which
was taken warmly.

You are congratulating me without knowing
the lady!' she exclaimed.

'Don't I know her? Am I mistaken?
surely not! It is Gertrude?'

1 Now that is good of you Mrs. Meredith
replied. ' And it is so like you, to divine it
all — to spare me the moment ; yes, it is quite
characteristic. And now tell me honestly
what yo u think — as if you were my brother

Well, then, honestly, I am wondering
which of them is the most to be congratulated.
Of course, one knows what the world
will say — this tiresome, worrying little world
all about us. It will be said everywhere that
Gertrude is the fortunate person — and truly
she is fortunate, from a certain point of view
which she will be able to appreciate ; most
fortunate. But there is a good deal to be said
on the other side. I can offer very sincere
congratulations to Percival. Miss Douglas is
not only a beautiful woman : I consider her to
have an absolutely perfect temper — no light
matter in married life. . . . Yes, certainly
I can congratulate him; I congratulate you
now — on the spot. I can hardly imagine
any station in life that would not be graced
by the presence of the woman your son has
chosen to be his lifelong companion. . I
can say no more. 7

Mrs. Meredith was not often emotional; but

she could not reply easily just now. She
shook hands once more, and more warmly,
with the Canon, and drove off, saying:

I shall expect that invitation to luncheon ;
add a grace to it by sending it soon. . . .
Life has not been the same since I was banished
from the Rectory.'

'Banished? You!' the Canon exclaimed,
his hat in his hand as the carriage drove
away.

And long afterwards Mrs. Meredith smiled
as she leaned back in her carriage, recalling
the kind blue eyes, the winning smile, the
charm, the fascination that was about all that
Canon Godfrey said or did.

c Forgive t she exclaimed to herself; ' one
would forgive him anything — everything!'

Then, a little later, when the distance was
wider, the upland, hills more deeply purple,
the summer evening breeze more chill and
sad, she added yet another word.

Forgive — forgive him ! Good God ! I
say it in all reverence, I say, good God,
forgive us, who do not know him — who
cannot see him ! It is only the reflection of
his soul that one sees— only a most marred,

and hindered, and darkened, yet most beautiful
vision.

I never see that man, I never hear the
sound of his voice, but I wish to be a better
woman — a more unselfish woman, and more
self-denying. . . . And there is more than
that. . . . What is it? What is the atmosphere
that is all about him, that impresses
one so? . . . Surely one can feel what it is
one must feel — it is the atmosphere of
prayer!

One takes knowledge of him, that he has
been with Jesus. ,'

Quite late that summer night a shepherd
was returning from the town of Yarburgh to
a moorland farm. It was a very bright night.
The moon was nearly at the full, and shone
out clear and cloudless from a heaven of deep
dark blue. The stars were numerous and
brilliant as the stars on a deep and frosty
night in midwinter.

All the way over the narrow, stony moorland
road the man went whistling, not from
cowardice, but for very pleasure. The night

was so still, so bright, so warm, and so
indisputably beautiful.

No, he had no fear, no superstition ; and
when he heard suddenly from under the
stunted hawthorn tree by the moorland wall
a cry, or rather a quiet and gentle appeal for
help, he turned aside without dread. He
stooped over the figure lying there; then, with
a sudden shock as of pain, Reuben Lodge
drew himself up hurriedly.

'It's never you, sir? — it's never Canon
Godfrey!'

I'm afraid it is, Reuben. . . . Can you
help me ? Can you get other help ? . . .
There is a dogcart at the Leas — isn't there?
But there is no need for great haste, much
less for alarm. . It isn't a cold night —
and it's not in the least damp.'

No ; there was no need for haste. A couple
of hours later the Canon was in his own
study, lying on the sofa, and Dr. Douglas was
there, speaking rough-and-ready truth as usual.

'I've seen it coming; months aro I told
you what that under-action of the heart would
mean if you didn't take care. And what care
have you taken ?'

The doctor's tone was a little harsh, a little
brusque; but it may be that Canon Godfrey
defined the source of the brusqueness. His
reply was in marked contrast.

1 Don't scold me, Douglas,' he begged
gently, putting out a beseeching hand, which
the doctor would not see.

Instead, he walked off to the window and
looked out, saying, by-and-by, in a strange
and unusual voice:

1 Scold you ! It's too late ! . . . Would to
God it wasn't!'

4 You mean, that I shall not recover ? . . .
Well, I had not expected it, and may I be forgiven
for saying I had not desired it.'

1 Xo, that I believe — that I have seen long
ago ; but without being able for one moment
to understand. . . . Why, what would you
have ? What is there in life worth having
that you haven't got ?'

The Canon smiled; then presently he said:

Don't think me ungrateful, or even unperceptive.
I have had much that many have
envied me. I had comparative success early
in life, and ever since I have tasted the fruit
of that success. But one doesn't wear one's

heart on one's sleeve — not if one is wise — still
less does one publish one's whole affairs to
the world. I have not done so. And now
at this late hour I may say that I have hidden
cares and anxieties, caused by no fault of my
own, but grave enough to have killed many
men.'

Doubtless — since they have killed you
the doctor interposed with even more than his
usual abruptness.

Ah, well !' the Canon returned ; ' it is
evident that you are in no mood to hear my
confidences to-night. You must give me
another opportunity when you are in a better
frame of mind. . . . But one word more; shall
I send for Thorhilda ?'

1 By all means. Shall I write for you?'

1 Thank you, } T es ; but don't say a word to
alarm her. She will come without that.'

4 IN TO-DAY ALREADY WALKS TO-MORROW.'

The spirit of man is an instrument which cannot give out
its deepest, finest tones, except under the immediate hand of
the Divine Harmonist.' — Professor Sharp.

The Canon had been disappointed. It was
not his niece's step that he had heard in the
hall, but that of Lady Diana Haddingley, a
person who was almost a stranger to him, and
therefore in his present state of mind and body
a person to be almost dreaded. Fortunately,
however, ten minutes of Lady Di's society had
banished all the dread.

She was not now a young woman, far from
it ; and her latest peculiar fancy was to dress
so that she might be mistaken for a widow.
Almost inevitably, since she had dressed to
the character, she had come to believe in a
sort of widowhood, and not only to believe in

it, but to act and speak out of her belief. Yet
there was no deliberate hypocrisy in her
histrionic display. She knew that others
knew how it all was, and remained content to
know. Still she clung to the simulated
1 weeds ' — the white cap, the black bonnet, the
long veil that was neither crape nor gauze.
Where, her friends asked, did she get such
ambiguously lovely materials?

All her study, her research, was thrown
away upon Canon Godfrey. He did not even
remember whether she had ever been married
or no.

Expecting, with a beating heart, that his
niece might have arrived an hour or two
before her time, and so have missed her aunt,
who had gone to the station to meet her, he
sank back into his chair with a new paleness
on his when the stranger was ushered into the
room.

But let it be said again, ten minutes of the
stranger's presence insured her welcome for as
many months, if the Canon should live so
long. For once there was a little sigh,
remembering that he might not count so
many days.

Lady Diana Haddingley was one of those
rare sympathetic women who can lend themselves
— and this successfully — to any hour,
any mood, any circumstance, and almost any
person. She had not been a quarter of an
hour in the drawing-room at Yarburofh Rectory
before she was in touch with all that had
happened there during the past two years.
And it may be that in one particular her insight
went even further than that of Canon
Godfrey himself.

A light seemed to flash across her mind
suddenly when the name of Damian Alden-mede
was mentioned. She remembered a
letter that she herself had written only a few
months before, just about the time fixed for
Miss Theyn's marriage ; and she also remembered
Mrs. Godfrey's reply — a letter disclosing
much more than the Canon's wife had meant
to disclose. In fact, it had been so worded as
to convey meanings of which Mrs. Godfrey
herself was ignorant. Yet, curiously enough
these hidden meanings held the very core of the
truth of all that had happened at the Rectory.
4 Ah ! yes. I remember Mr. Aldenmede was
here ; he was here ever so long. I told your
vol. in. 52

wife all the gossip I Lad heard from Sarah
Charming. I didn't believe in it much,
though. Sarah always gets hold of the wrong
end of a story. . I dare say you know
about it all. There was a fish wife as
heroine — the mother of half-a-dozen little
fisher-folk. . . .'

Oh, hush, pray say no more !' the Canon
begged, not too courteously. ' I will tell you
after about the things that must have given
rise to such terrible gossip as that. It is worse
than merely untrue. But, pardon me for asking
it, can you tell me something of Mr.
Aldenmede — anything that may be told
openly and honourably? AVe saw 7 so much of
him, we know 7 so little of him. But let me
say that all we did know added to our
admiration.'

4 That was inevitable. But do you mean to
say that you never heard of his great trouble
the thing that drove him from his country
and his home, drove him to wander over the
earth for years ?'

1 No, we knew nothing ; we know nothing
yet. But don't betray any secret to gratify
curiosity of mine.'

Secret ! It was known all over Gloucestershire.'


Is that his county?'

Lady Di smiled.

You spoke of your curiosity just now
she said. ' It seems you have not had enough
to induce you to look into a certain book to
be found in most houses. Don't you know
that your artist-friend is the nephew of old Sir
Ralph Aldenmede of King's Alden ?'

1 No. . I did not know. . . . But
tell me something more interesting than
that.'

Interesting ! You might call for sensation
and not be disappointed in the present
instance.'

You are dreadfully trying, Lady Diana.'

Because I won't come to the point ? . . .
Well, I won't be trying any more. I will
give you the history in the fewest words
possible.

1 First of all then, to go back about fifteen
years — to the time when Damian Aldenmede
was a youth of one-and-twenty; a very boyish
youth for his years, but clever enough, and
high-minded enough ; indeed, " Don Quixote ' y

b2—2

was the name we gave to him in those days.
I need hardly say that he was popular —
singularly popular for a man who was not
likely ever to be very rich, for Sir Ralph had
two sons living then, Charles and Alfred ; and
Damian's mother, a widow of five-and-fifry,
though well-to-do, was not counted a wealthy
woman. I should say a couple of thousands
a year was the extent of her income, and
Damian's sole prospect was the reversion of
that. But, as we always said, a couple of
hundreds would have been enough for him ;
indeed, I do not suppose that he is spending
much more than that upon himself even now.
Still, his inappetence for spending money on
himself did not injure his popularity — quite
the reverse. He made friends everywhere,
his especial friend being a certain Julian
Haverfield, the son of a Lincolnshire clergyman.
Mr. Haverfield spent most of his
vacations at Walsingham, Mrs. Aldenmede's
little place in Gloucestershire, and we all
knew him, and liked him. He was very
fascinating.

• Now comes the beginning of the tragedy.
Damian Aldenmede fell in love — deeply,

passionately in love — with a governess, the
orphan daughter of a provincial lawyer, and
one of the most beautiful skirts I have ever seen
in my life. Her features were small, refined,
and most exquisitely cut; to look at her
profile was like looking at a cameo ; and her
colouring was simply the cream and carnation
of Millais' baby girls. We were all in love
with her ; and she knew it, expected it, for
the girl had no more brain than a butterfly.
How such a man as Damian Aldenmede could
ever have cared for her for three consecutive
days puzzled everybody who could not see
that a man who is also an artist is open
to temptation on a side not vulnerable in
ordinary men. It was the artist that was
attracted first ; the man was subjugated later.
There must, of course, have been something
more than mere beauty in Miss Florence
Underhay — some gentleness, some womanliness,
some indefinable fascination, or Damian
Aldenmede had never contrived to make
wreck of his life in the complete way he contrived
to dot

The tragedy might never have been so
complete if his mother had not been as proud

as she was shallow. When she came to know-that
Damian was engaged — actually engaged
to the governess of her late grocer (now
retired, and living in a beautiful villa at
Clifton) — her anger knew no bounds.

There must have been some terrible scenes,
for Damian's love and regard for his mother
had always been noticeable. However, in the
end, she disinherited him so far as she had
power to do. She had a new will made,
and left the greater part of her possessions
to a niece, the daughter of a favourite
sister.

At last comes the more dramatic part of
the story. Miss Florence Underhay came to
know of the new will, and from that day she
changed to the man who was to have been her
husband, who had lavished the love of a strong
heart and brain upon her to an extent she had
only found wearisome.

The end came quickly. One fine morning
Damian received a double letter, two sheets in
two different hand-writings in one envelope.
The first he read was from his friend Julian
Haveriield, a man he had loved as his own
soul. The letter announced the approaching

marriage of Mr. Haverfield and Miss Florence
Underhay.

1 The second letter was from Miss Underhay
herself. It was almost brutally candid.

She had not deceived Mr. Aldenmede, she
said. She had loved him, she had meant to
marry him ; but learning what would be the
pecuniary result of such a marriage, she had
not hesitated in her decision to break off the
engagement at once. Almost at the same
moment, Mr. Haverfield, to whom she had
spoken of her resolution, had made her an
offer. Being a richer man than Damian
Aldenmede had ever hoped to be, she had, of
course, accepted him. She added that she
had had enough of poverty, of all that was
meant by narrow means.

6 In conclusion, she said, " I ask you to forgive
me, and to forget me. I am persuaded
that there will come a clay when you will be
glad that I have acted thus. I was no fit
wife for you. For a long time past it has
been a strain to me to live up to your expectations.
You required too much."

i Imagine the blow to a man like Alden-mede
! His mother told me that she believed

the broken friendship was at least as much as
the broken love. He has never been himself
since — not the self he was before.

1 As a matter of course, Mrs. Aldenmede
again changed her intentions as to the disposal
of her property, much to the dismay of her
niece, Clara Young, who was already beginning
to be looked upon as an heiress, and had
refused more than one eligible offer because
she considered that such a fortune as the one
she was expecting ought at least to secure for
her a title. Damian has been very good to
her since his mother's death, and very helpful
to her husband ; indeed, he is good to everybody.'


So Lady Di ended her story. She had told
it in a very bald and crude fashion, as she
knew, and the Canon knew that too, but all
the same his heart ached as he listened.

Now he knew why the artist had worn
always that sad face ; why he had, in a certain
sense, striven to hide his real position
from such as did not know it. Doubtless the
man was hoping to win some love for himself
alone, untainted by appreciation of aught that
he might possess.

Had this also been a mistake ? Had it even
led to a new undoing ?

There was silence in the room for awhile.
In the heart of each of the two people there
the same idea was pressing, and this with all
the force of prophecy.

They must meet again !' the Canon said to
himself ; and then in the quiet that followed
he felt the spirit within him grow calm and
sure.

It will be well, it will all be well,' so it
seemed that some voice was saying. And just
then came the sound of carriage-wheels, the
opening and shutting of doors, the words of
welcome uttered by his wife. For a moment
he felt overcome, but he strove and was victorious.
A minute later Thorda was kneeling
by his sofa, and her eyes were wet, her voice
broken by emotion.

1 Say you forgive me, Uncle Hugh — say
that once again !' she cried. And, indeed, the
agony of her mind was very great.

Till her sorrow had come she had never
known how she had loved this man who lay
there dying, nor had she till then dreamt of
what his love for her had been. The past

few months had shown her all with a most
vigorously bitter showing.

No day or hour had passed but she had
missed his care, his tranquil, mindful affection.
That other love, stifled half successfully
in her heart, had caused her less constant
misery than this.

To be there in the old room, to kneel
beside him, to hold his hand, to look into
his face, was an emotion that for the time absorbed
all others. She did not know when
Lady Diana and her aunt went out, she only
knew that at last she and her uncle were
alone.

It was an hour she had longed for, waited
for, dreamt of unceasingly. There had been
no misunderstanding between them ; but since
that sad crisis in her life there had not been
opportunity for the perfect understanding, the
oneness of mind and heart she so yearned for.
Now it might be — that perfect unity ; if only
for a little while. She did not yet dream how
short the interval was to be.

It is better not to know, but it is well to
remember all that knowledge might mean.

The next word we utter might be gentler
and tenderer if we knew it would be spoken
to one over whom the wings of Azrael were
already silently spreading ; silent with the
silence of the land beyond.

THE UNEXPECTED.

Still onward winds the dreary way ;
I with it, for I long to prove
No lapse of moons can conquer love,
Whatever fickle tongues may say.'

In Memoriam.

Those were glorious autumn days. Xow and
then when Canon Godfrey was well enough
he and his niece walked out over the moor
beyond the Rectory, sauntering up the stony
hillside pathways with leagues upon leagues
of crimson heather on either side. The warm
yellow sunlight heightened the tone of things
near and far, the blue sea stretched quietly
from point to point. White-winged gulls
sailed lazily overhead on the one hand ;
startled grouse whirred tremulously on the
other. No other sounds disturbed the enchanting
stillness.

On one of these days, it was early in September,
the Canon was in a brighter mood
than usual. He seemed stronger, able to
walk better and faster.

1 Ah, what it is to feel strong ao'ain, young
again !' he said, turning aside so that he might
sit down to rest awhile on the top of Barugh
Houe, an ancient British cairn at the top of
Yarburgh Moor. It was a favourite spot.
There was the sea he had always loved so
passionately in the distance ; the moors he
had loved with a love almost equally strong
were all about him, glowing in their richest
beauty, the crown of the year lying upon each
moorland brow. And the free fresh air was
as wine to the man whose wine of youth and
strength had been drained prematurely to the
lees. To-day he rejoiced again with a new rejoicing.


It is almost worth while to have felt faint
and weak and worthless, to know the joy of
renewed strength,' he went on. ' Life would
be worth living if only to have a day now and
then like this. I can hardly believe now that
once, and not so long ago, life was lived
always on such terms as these ! That I slept

at night a painless and refreshing sleep, that I
awoke always as a child awakes, glad of the
new day; my brain busy with new thought;
my heart warm with new and expectant
emotion. Yes. . I think I was a happy
man, very happy. . . . There were hidden
troubles ; but I bore them — I think I may
say that by the grace of God, I bore them
well; but I was not strong enough to go on
bearing them; and I fear now that it was
because I had not sufficient spiritual strength.
We know nothing of ourselves, not yet. We
know nothing of the way the soul's strength
acts upon the strength of the body. The
strong soul is at peace. Peace means opportunity
for growth, development for all that is
hindered by tumult, by anger, by distress.
Give the soul an atmosphere of calm, and all
will be well. . . . And I am calm to-day,
very calm. . But how egotistic I am
growing ! Thorda dear, how is it with
you ?'

Miss Theyn was sitting among the crimson
heather at her uncle's feet ; a woman older by
ten years than she had seemed ten months
ago. It was a topic of conversation everywhere

that her good looks were gone ; and for
once gossip was not mistaken.

She was quite aware of her loss — what true
woman would not have been ? She knew that
she w T as thin and pale ; that her eyes had lost
both colour and brightness ; in a word that
she was faded and passee to an extent her
years by no means excused. Yet the change
did not distress her. She had passed beyond
the possibility of distresses of that kind.

1 How is it with me ?' she repeated. ' Well,
I could almost echo your own words. I too
have peace. Not perfect peace — it is not
always with me. There are breaks in it at
times,

*' When I think of what I am, and what I might have been." '

But as I told you the other day, Thorda
dear, I am very sure it is not a wise thing to
live too much in an unhappy or mistaken
past.'

1 agree with you completely. " Not too
much ;" but, on the other hand, if one could
forget it altogether, would it be wise to do
so? Is there not a sort of safety in remembering
past falls?'

1 Yes ; if one doesn't remember them to the
point of depression in the present. I have
seen a human being so borne down by the
sense of past sin as to have neither hope nor
energy left for even making an effort to rise
again. It is not so with you, I know. I
would only warn you, because I know your
tendency to brood over the past. . . . Let it
go, dear. It is possible

" To be as if you had not been till now ;

And now were simply what you choose to be." '

There was silence while Miss Theyn drank
in the beauty, the strength, of this most
strengthening thought.

Not quite what one chooses to be, Uncle
Hugh,' she said presently. ' The past must
always have its influence on the present.'

And the present on the future. That is
the immense value of the present hour : it
must in a measure dominate the hours to be.
Yet there is truth in the poet's word. One
strong effort may save a soul on the brink
of destruction. Think of Zacchaeus, of the
splendid picture painted of him by St. Luke.
He had been drawn by mere rumour to wish

to see Jesus. He knew himself to be a sinner,
an ungodly man, rapacious, cruel, yet the
germ of good, the ideal, was in him as it
is in most men. He wished to see Jesus, he
saw Him, and more than that, was seen of
Him ; requested to come down from the tree
into which he had climbed ; and then (what
must his astonishment have been ?) the Master
said, " I wish to come to your house to abide
there."

" And he made haste, and came down, and received Him
joyfully."

1 Joyfully, ah, yes indeed, think of his joy !

There is often something touching, often
something noble, even in the hated thing we
call condescension. A man of high rank may
condescend to one of lower rank, even the
lowest, and gain an added grace in the act.
Suspicion may be there on the one side and on
the other ; but if there be nothing to be suspected,
the presence of suspicion can do no
real or permanent harm.

1 But the greatest condescension of all — the
truest, the most noble, the most touching —
is when one who has worn the white flower of
vol. in. 53

a blameless life condescends to one whose
lilies of purity were dragged in the dust long
ago. That is the one condescension worthy
of note.

A rich man speaking to a poor man can
have no human or spiritual aversion to make
his speaking an act of self-sacrifice. A lady
with an ancient and honourable title cannot
really feel that the pure and high-minded
woman in whose society she finds herself is
really her inferior because of the absence of
the outward distinctive sign of social rank.
But it is different when you come to deal with
spiritual rank.

' Know that there is in man a quite indestructible reverence
for whatsoever holds of heaven, or even plausibly counterfeits
such holding. Show the dullest clodpole, show the haughtiest
featherhead, that a soul higher than himself is actually here ;
were his knees stiffened into brass, he must down and worship."


Yes ; he must down and worship. On his
knees he must contrast the purity, the nobility,
the peace, the happiness of this man's
life with his own. Then follows the thought,
the aspiration, ' ; Can I become what this man
is? Can I rise to his pure height? Can I
find enjoyment in the things he enjoys? Can

my life be as his life?" So the questions
come. Next, suddenly and strongly, comes
the resolve. In the case of Zacchseus there
was no hesitation. Too often hesitation is
fatal. u Behold, Lord !" he said instantly,
"the half of my goods I give to the poor;
and if I have taken anything from any man by
false accusation, I restore fourfold."

1 And all this because of the sight of a pure
spiritual face, the sound of a gentle beseeching
voice.

Conversion this is called, and rightly ; but
the word has been so misused as to be no
longer rightly useful. The repentance in
the heart and soul of Zacchseus must have
been more or less rapid. Yet was it perfectly
complete, entirely effectual. The Master Himself
declared at once that, because of this
sudden penitence, salvation had that day come
to the house of the rich publican. Doubtless,
of course, that hour was but the beginning of
the new life — new and beautiful, full of peace,
of happiness, yet neither untried nor unshaded.
So it is with you, Thorda dear. Your peace
the peace you have won out of tribulation —
is not unbroken, you say. How should it be

53—2

in this world? Have you even the wish for
unbroken peace ? Surely that would mean
stagnation.'

Again there was silence for a time — not an
unhappy silence on either side. The Canon
had recognised the change that had passed
upon his niece's character ; how the channels
of her soul seemed deeper and wider for the
tide of sorrow and remorse that had poured
through them, washing away even the very
stains of the selfishness that had so marred her
life before. The change showed in every act
of her life — nay, in her very speech, and dress,
and attitude. If less brightly beautiful than
of old, she was even more graceful and tender,
and her gentle consideration for others never
failed her.

The Canon could not help the thought that
came. ' Ah, if he could see her now !' And
with the thought came the lononnor l Let me
see them before I die ; let me hear them speak
to each other ! I shall know ; I shall understand
!'

It was not strange that Miss Theyn's
thought should be of the same person. All
about them were things to recall the few

brief bright months during which she had
known Damian Aldenmede. The blue far-off
sea seemed to whisper of him ; the purple
heather rustling in the breeze had a wistfulness
in its tone ; and as the sun sank to the
moor the voices all about seemed to grow
sadder, to deepen the sense of her heart's
real loneliness.

Long ago there had been an hour of
awakening — an hour during which Miss
Theyn had been wholly true to herself.

It was love for him, though I knew it not ;
it was love for Damian Aldenmede that led
me to do a deed that must for ever have
destroyed the regard he had for me. . . . Regard?
Was it not more than that I saw in
his face on that day when he said " Good-bye"
in the garden at Yarburgh ? I deceived
myself then, or tried to do so ; but why try
self-deception now ?

1 He loved me, he saw that I loved him ;
and he knew that I trampled on my love
because of his poverty, or seeming poverty.
He saw that I did that ; that I encouraged
another who loved me, and who had wealth,
but for whom I had no love to give in return.

He must have seen all that; I know that he
did. Surely, then, it hardly needed that last
suicidal act to destroy whatever of love he had
for me !

I loved him from the first, from the first
day I saw him. I had seen no one else like
him ; no one so true, so calm, so great !
I have seen no one like him since, nor
shall I.

1 No, it is over — my life, or rather my hope
of happiness in life. But I may help to make
others happy.'

So Miss Theyn was musing ; yet shall it be
confessed that the conclusion, the last result
of her thought, was less supremely satisfying
than it should have been. But in extenuation
let it be remembered that she had only just
entered upon her twenty-fifth year. At
twenty - five one's opinions should be all
settled ; one should be decided in politics,
social science, and above all in matters theological.
That one should then, at that age,
have anvthinof left to learn, much less to discover,
argues ill for the completeness of one's
education.

Thorhilda Theyn's education was yet incomplete

; but sorrow and pain had helped
forward the process most satisfactorily of late.
Yet that she should not be able to find perfect
rest in the idea of perfect renunciation was a
fact that told its own tale. Life was still
strong within her, with love of all that life
means. Desire for sympathy, for deep affection,
still held their natural sway in her heart.
She might be strong to control the yearning,
strong to conceal it ; but the power to destroy
it was not yet hers : it might never be.
Perhaps she hardly wished for the power.

Do we any of us wish it? We live, and
are denied, and suffer. And when at last
even the power of suffering is dead within us,
what are we? What are we then, when all
human and lovable qualities have been so
crushed within us, because there is no one
near to feel our love, to care for it, much less
to try by tender human wiles to cherish it?
What are we then ?

Some of us who so suffer are simply what
our friends make of us. We accept a frigid
acquaintanceship — accept it with many smiles
and much amiability — and go on living a life
that is a very death. Others resent the entire

state of things, and grow bitter, and meet
with only bitterness in return. In how many
such might one find a whole world of genuine
and generous sweetness, only wanting the one
.daring touch of that daring thing — a pure
human love ?

Again there are some, perhaps but a few,
who are so ready, so bright, so light, so
unconscious, or apparently unconscious of
self, that pity or compassion seems the last
thing they can need. They think of others so
perpetually that no one thinks of them.

If we do think of them at all, we think how
happy they are, how well-to-do, how free from
care, and we give a little sigh of envy; and
while we give that careless sigh the soul
we breathe it upon may be sobbing out the
last convulsion of a very passion of loneliness,
of un friend redness.

They wandered back over the moor — the
Canon and his niece; and almost inevitably
the latter was sadder than she had been when
she set out. And it seemed as if her uncle's
somewhat unusual brightness made her sadder
still. Almost it pained her — this new enjoyment
of an apparently newly-recovered strength.

It was as if some new life had been given
him — new mental and emotional life rather
than merely physical ; and yet there was some
element present not entirely satisfactory.
Almost it was fear that Miss Theyn felt —
unknown, not understood fear.

'My bosom's lord sits lightly on its throne.'

These words came to her mind all undesired ;
and even out of her own limited experience
she could recall instances wherein this lighter
sway of reason had but been the forerunner ol
tragic event. She was not superstitious, she
was in the habit of laughing at presentiments;
yet this evening, walking homeward over the
moor, she felt herself to be more tenderly
drawn to this her second and true father than
ever before. She watched his lightest action,
hung upon his briefest word, felt his smallest
request as a binding plea. And Hugh Godfrey,
if unaware, was not irresponsive.

There was a small fir copse to be passed
through between the moorland and the Rectory.
The wind was singing gently in the
tops of the pine-trees, sighing and singing
with a kind of low-toned organ note. Between

the boles of the trees could be seen the far-off
silver light. upon the sea ; a light that seemed
not of heaven or of earth, but inherent in that
wide world of water. Here and there a star
was shining in the deep blue ether — shining
silently, so far as human discerning could
know.

All was silent save for the sighing of the
breeze. Not a bird-note broke upon the ear ;
if the wavelets plashing down ujoon the beach
made any sound, it was the sound of a murmur
so subdued as to make the stillness more
noticeable. It was the time, the place, to
cause an aching heart to ache with a more
piercing loneliness. Whatever trouble the
soul might have, that was an atmosphere in
which such trouble must seem to grow, to
deepen, to weigh with a heavier pressure than
before. Why is it so? Why does the extreme
of beauty everywhere touch upon the
extreme of pain ?

Canon Godfrey was resting, leaning his arm
upon the low stone wall that bounded the fir
copse at the western side. The gate was close
at hand — the gate that led into Yarburgh
Lane and down to the Rectory garden.

Wait awhile, dear,' he said, when he first
stayed his steps by the old lichen covered gate.
1 Let us rest a minute or two.'

'You are tired, Uncle Hugh!'

1 1 think I am ; tired all at once. . It
was so glorious out on the moor ; it is so
glorious here!'

Miss Theyn saw how it w r as. The beauty
the unusual beauty — together with the
exhilaration of the moorland air, had been
together too strongly stimulating for the
man whose strength had gone so utterly
before.

1 It is glorious. Still I think you will seethe
glory of it all from the Rectory. Will
you not come now, Uncle Hugh ? It is growing
late !'

Late ! Yes, it is very late, and I am very
glad. The evening has been so long.'

Not knowing why. Miss Theyn felt that
her heart was beginning to beat somewhat
rapidly, wildly There was nothing to cause
her apprehension, yet she knew herself to be
growing apprehensive.

The Canon did not move. He was still
leaning upon the old wall close to the gate.

c Hasn't it been a long evening — very long V
he said presently, speaking in a strange,
dreamy way, quite new to him. And though
no words could have been less alarming, the
sense of alarm grew in Miss Theyn, heart and
soul.

She turned so that she could look into the
Canon's face. A crimson flush was deepening
there, where for weeks, nay, months past, only
the pallid hue of illness had been ; the kind
blue eyes were burning with a strange intense
brilliancy.

Suddenly the Canon held out his hand,
looking into his niece's face with a pleading,
pathetic look. He spoke with extreme difficulty.


c Take my hand, Thorda ! Take it in
yours ! It pricks ? It stings ! Can't you
feel that it stings ? Don't you feel it too ?'

Miss Theyn was trying to hold the outstretched
hand in hers, doing her utmost to
overcome the terror that held her in no
unconscious grasp. She had seen too much
of late to be altogether unaware of the dread
significance of the blow she had now to meet.

Yet that first moment was overwhelming.

She knew how helpless she was up there on
the lonely moor, with no habitation nearer
than the Rectory. In her distress she turned
to see if any human help might by chance be
approaching ; aod it seemed no strange coincidence
that a dark figure should be coming
somewhat rapidly over the stony pathway.
Looking into the Canon's face again, she met
no answering look. The eyes were still unnaturally
bright, but all meaning was dying
rapidly out of them, and the tired head was
drooping helplessly to one side ; the right
arm still rested on the stone wall.

1 Keep up a little longer, Uncle Hugh, justa
little. Someone is coming — a gentleman,'
Thorda urged tremblingly.

She knew that the gentleman must hear
her, he was so close now, and he was coming
toward the gate.

But Hugh Godfrey did not hear her. His
head was sinking lower and lower. In a very
passion of terror, Thorhilda put one arm round
him and stretched out the other toward the
stranger. What did it matter that he was
not a stranger ? that her hand was laid compelling
upon the arm of Damian Alden-mede?

What could such things matter in
that dread moment ?

There was no word of recognition ; nor
was any needed. Damian understood all in
that first glance. He returned the pressure
of Miss Theyn's hand, not looking into her
face at all, but only into the face of the
unseeing friend before him.

1 Do your best to support Mr. Godfrey for a
few minutes he begged. 'I will have help
here immediately.'

AS A TALE THAT IS TOLD.

One cannot judge
Of what has been the ill or well of life
The day that one is dying — sorrows change
Into not altogether sorrow-like.
I do not see sadness ; but scarce misery,
Now it is over, and no danger more.'

The night following that evening upon the
moorland hills was a strange but not unbeautiful
time at Yarburgh Rectory. All
night three persons had kept watch in a quiet
room. The dying man's wife had borne the
ordeal well ; and his niece had endured not
less than worthily, considering the extreme of
her suffering;. Each of these women knew r
that they had been strengthened by the
presence of a man whose experience of suffering
had been long and varied.

When the morning came it seemed to Miss

Theyn that Damian Aldenmede had been by
her side for weeks or months. Every look
of his was understood, every gesture.

In the brain of each there was a kind of
dumb surprise that the anticipations of months
should all have been overruled by the event of
one single moment.

The meeting (inevitably each of them had
felt assured that they mast meet some day)
had been rehearsed on either side, with details
and circumstances now hopeful, and now most
hopeful, according to the mood of the
dreamer. Not one event had come to pass in
accordance with any dream.

It was a careless word in a careless letter
that had brought Damian Aldenmede to
England. He had expected to find Miss
Theyn in the home of her friend Mrs.
Thur stone, and had arrived there on the very
day on which the telegram had been received
stating that the Canon was less well than
usual. He had followed Miss Theyn as far
as Danesborough, and there he had stayed
making earnest inquiries day by day. So it
was that he had appeared at a moment when
he was most needed, least expected.

Certainly Fate is kind to one sometimes,'
he said to Miss Theyn, as they stood together
by the lire in the Canon's room, at midnight.

Fate ?' she said inquiringly, lifting a calm
white face to his grave countenance, bent
down a little to hers.

1 You know how I meant the word. We
do not need to discuss that, you and I. No
day of my life is lived but I am impressed
the more with belief in a personal Providence
the Providence of a God who has given
me that day, and will require an account
of it.'

Miss Theyn was silent for awhile, and a
little sadi

Is not the thought almost too impressive
for every-day use for everyone of us ?' she
said at last. ' We can bear it just now,
because we stand in the presence of one who
has never lost the thought, and is going to
his rest now willingly, gladly, because he has
not. I speak of common days, of more
ordinary hours. Is not the thought too heavy V

1 Not, surely, if we take it rightly. To be

impressed is not necessarily to be depressed.

Nay, for me the darkest hours and the
vol. in. 54

lightest, the brightest, may mingle their
diverse elements with no incongruity. Is not
this such an hour for both of us ? Will you
not let it be such ?'

Damian Aldenmede paused then, watching
the face of the woman he loved, seeing its
expression change in the firelight from deepest
calm to almost painful confusion. The change
distressed him.

You have suffered enough,' he said,
taking Thorhilda's hand in his, and holding it
tenderly. ' And I can well understand that
this hour is one that must have yet more of
suffering in it. Yet the joy, the extreme
of happiness, may be all the deeper, the
keener, for this sublimation of pain. May it
not be so ? We are here, by the side of
one who has lived, and loved, and suffered,
and whom we both love ; and he is going
from us — o^oino; into that silent land whither
we must one day follow him. Will you not
let him have the happiness of knowing of our
happiness before he leaves us ? Indeed, I
have fancied he was waiting for the knowledge,
hoping for it ! You will let me speak of it to
him ?'

Thorhilda was pale and tremulous, yet she
looked up as if she would search the face that
was watching hers.

You can ask this — you can wish it —
knowing all ?'

He would not affect to misunderstand her.

Yes, knowing all ; and partly because of
my knowledge,' he replied. ' And not forgetting
that I myself was to blame for much
of your suffering. Is it vanity to think that
if I had told you, or given you to understand
at the very first that my love was yours —
yours from the first hour I met you — is it
vanity to think that all would have been
different ? Do not answer me if an answer
would be pain. I have other things to confess
; and it may be that my confession will be
in some sense an extenuation. If I had not
suffered, if the remembrance of my suffering
had not been strong upon me, I had not
refrained from trying to win your affection.
And that another should be trying to win it
was a possibility I could not face. The news
came upon me like a shock — a far more terrible
shock, let me say it, than I received on
hearing that you had at last thought and

54—2

acted for your better self. Forgive me if
I speak too plainly — it is better. Let all
be fair between us, all quite open. There
is much in my past that is painful — nothing
that I cannot tell you. And as for you, there
is nothing that you need say — not a word. I
know it all

Again there was effort on Miss Theyn's
part.

1 Yes, you must know,' she said presently.
1 And I am glad that it is so. I have not
strength just now to lay bare all my past
weakness, my past ignorance, as I should
wish to do. Such strength only comes by
moments at a time.'

Then wait for the time, dear !'

Yes, I must. I must some day tell you
how, when I began to feel your affection, I
yet would not let myself yield to the spell of
it, and all because I dreaded poverty — simply
that — the dread of the effort, and self-denial of
poor living.'

And now you dread that no longer?'

The question was asked in all sincerity.
Damian Aldenmede had ascertained how much
of the actual state of his circumstances had

been communicated to Miss Theyn by Mrs.
Thurstone, how much by Lady Diana Had-dingle.
Each of these ladies had said
nearly all she knew; neither had known the
truth.

So it was that when Thorhilda Theyn gave
her word of promise to the artist who had won
her love, she knew but little more than that
he was a man of good birth, but of somewhat
fallen fortune. Later she knew his whole history,
not as told by Lady Di Haddingley or
another. He told her all himself. But that
night she was content to know nothing save
that her life's one love was returned, and that
nothing now stood in the way of her future
happiness. Her future happiness ! It was
a happiness that dominated even the present
hour of pain. A little later, as she stood
by Canon Godfrey's bed-side, Damian Alden-mede
at her right hand, the Canon saw how
it was with them, and the smile on his wan,
white face expressed all his satisfaction.

4 1 have wished for this : I have wished to
know he said, speaking with effort. ' Dear
Thorda, this atones for all — for all my weakness,
my cowardice!'

Hush. Uncle Hugh ! The weakness was

mine, only mine ! It was you who saved me.
But for you I had exchanged my soul, my
very soul, for a mess of pottage — the pottage
of an easy competence. '

1 And how many lives are wrecked on that
same rock !' the Canon replied. He was
lying back on the white pillows that propped
him to a half sitting posture. The thin,
golden - brown hair streaked with white
curled upon his wet forehead. The blue
eyes shone brightly, intensely, as with deepest
fervour of living, with keenest fervour of
suffer ing.

Ah, yes, how many lives are wrecked
there! It is a rock the poor, the very poor,
are saved from as certainly as the rich. They,
God help them, are content to live from day
to day, happy so that they do not suffer actual
starvation. It is the class, or rather the classes,
next above that suffer really. They cannot
beg, they can seldom borrow, they can do
little but suffer in silence. So it is that they
are tempted. . If you can, Thorda dear,
help those — those who do not complain, who
do not ask, who do not come before societies

yes, always help such as put a brave face on
their poverty.'

1 There I can give you some little comfort,
Uncle Hugh. I think I may say that I have
learned to look below the surface. So you
see that your life has not been lived in vain,
so far as I am concerned. There are others,
many others, who will say the same. . . .
Will any say it so truly, so sadly as I do?'

4 Sadly, Thorda dear?'

Yes, very sadly, for much of the light you
gave me I refused to follow — yes, I refused till
the very last. That was my sin. It has had
its punishment, as all wilful sin must have —
sin committed against light, in the midst of
light.'

But that is over now, dear.'

No, it is not, Uncle Hugh. It never can
be. I would not wish that it should. All
my life must be the sadder, the less bright and
beautiful for the shadow of that remembered
sin. I believe it to be a sin forgiven, but I
would not even wish it forgotten. It will
keep me low, when temptation to spiritual
pride would lift me higher than it would be
safe for me to go. . . . No, I can never forget

; I would not if I could. . . . But now
for a while let us forget ourselves — our present
selves. . I have been thinking of Hartas.
Would you not wish to see him, Uncle Hugh ?
I know he will be wishing intensely to
see you.'

The Canon smiled and clasped his niece's
hand ; then he drew from underneath his
]pillow an envelope addressed to his nephew,
Hartas Theyn. It enclosed a letter written
with much difficulty, and during keen bodily
anguish. The Canon passed it to Damian
Aldenmede.

'Will you take this to Hartas?' he said.
1 Will you take it now ? It is a request
that he will come and see me, and that if
it seem good to him and to Barbara Burdas
they will come together. You can understand.'


AT DAWN OF DAY.

1 Weep not ; O friends, we should not weep :
Our friend of friends lies full of rest,
No sorrow rankles in his breast.'

The sun had risen above the eastern sea with
a soft, gray, gentle radiance, lighting all the
far faint waters with a silvery glow that
seemed tenderer and more poetic by far than
the more dazzling and aggressive tints of rose
and daffodil that often mark the rising of the
sun above the northern ocean.

There is far less variation than might be
deemed in this same cloud scenery. For
that one whole summer a certain purple bar
of cloud edged with amber rested athwart
the eastern horizon from sunset to almost
sunrise. Evening after evening the orb went
down into the sea to the north-west, glowing

under that heavy slanting bar, and morning
by morning, but some two or three hours
later, the sun uprose under the shadow of
the same cloud, which had moved slowly to
the north-east, and now was edged with rose-pink,
now with golden-yellow, now with
palest silvery gray. It was of this faint
silver tone that morning when Canon Godfrey
asked that his narrow iron bedstead might
be wheeled to the side of the open window.
And even as he lay there with clasped hands,
uplifted eyes, and fervid, prayerful lips, his
name was being urged pleadingly by another.

1 Come with me, Barbara Hartas Theyn
was saying. He had come over from the
Grange before daylight, holding in his hand
the letter that Damian Aldenmede had
brought to him.

Come with me,' Hartas repeated. i Look
at this letter ; it is my Uncle Hugh's. He
knows all. He speaks of his faith in you ;

he alludes to his hope for me But

even now, be yourself, Barbara. Don't let
your regard for him lead you to be untrue to
yourself.'

Barbara listened, white, pallid, yet strong

in her own pure consciousness of purest intention.


Since that terrible time when she had been
rescued from suffering, if not from death,
partly by the effort of Hartas Theyn, she
had been more than ever sure of her feeling
toward him. But in her inmost heart she
admitted that not that night, nor another,
had been needed for the conquest of her
affection.

I It is no use — no use at all attempting to
conceal it from myself. I love him — I have
loved him always, and all the more because
there was no one else to love him truly, to
see the good in him — the good that only
needed trial and trouble to bring it out. . . .
Now all the world — that is, the little world
about us — sees how good he is, how brave,
how strong ¥

All these thoughts, and many others, passed
through the heart and brain of Barbara as she
stood there by the little gate at the top of the
steps in the growing dawn-light.

I I will be ready in a minute or two,' she
said presently. ' I must ask old Hagar to
come in and look after Ildy and Jack. Then

I will go with you. . Be patient for a
little while !'

She smiled, rather sadly, as she spoke ; the
need for patience was evidently so strong in
Hartas Theyn. To this day the need is his.
If he waits while his wife addresses a letter
he walks up and down the room, chafing asa
man might chafe who awaited a warrant
ordering all his future fate. You might
imagine that every line contained a decretal,
1 To be or not to be,' affecting the continuance
of his future life.

The sun was yet only fairly risen above the
top of the eastern cliffs when Barbara and
Hartas Theyn entered the Rectory gates.
Bab had put on her mourning dress, a plain
black gown and a simple black bonnet, almost
innocent of trimming, and lamentably far
from the fashion of the hour. But of this
she w T as not aware ; nor was anyone who
saw her aware. Canon Godfrey, looking
upon her as she entered his room, as she
came and stood by the bed where he lay
dying, held out his hand with the warmth,
the respect he had shown to the noblest
woman of his acquaintance. If the question

had been asked of him, he would in all probability
have said, ' I know no greater, nobler
woman than Barbara Burdas.'

She quite understood why it was that the
Canon had wished to see her in these, the
last moments of his life. From the beginning
she had understood his wish ; been glad,
proud of his appreciation. In the darkest
hours of her life the belief that he believed in
her had been as a strong spiritual stimulant.

The sun was shining across the room by
this time, throwing a halo of light all about
the pillow of the dying man. The shadow
of the trees but just outside-flickered and
danced upon the wall ; upon the ivory-white
hangings that were all about the bed ; and
the light was of that fresh inspiring kind
that marks certainly the beginning of the day.
No true nature-lover can ever be deceived as
to the difference between the vivid brightness
of the rising sun, and the subdued keenness
of the sun that is setting. There is not even
similitude.

I knew you would come,' the Canon
said, lifting his still blue and kindly eyes
to Barbara's face. There was a smile on his

lip, the old warm, winning smile; but Barbara
had much ado to prevent responsive tears.
I knew you would come — you and Hartas.
It seemed so necessary that I should see you
again ; that I should know before I go how
it is to be with you. Hartas ! Barbara ! . . .
Is the word said — the one word that is to
decide all? . If it is not, can you tell me
why % Is there anything I can say to make
that word easier to either of you V

It was a strange hour. It seemed as if it
were only yesterday that he had astonished
his wife by saying, ' I am not sure that I
should consider Hartas 's marriage to Barbara
Burdas such a great calamity !'

And how much had happened since then !
And mostly the events had justified his saying.
The change in Barbara herself was not
greater than the change in the Squire's son,
and everywhere people were attributing these
changes to their rightful source. Yes, it was
a strange hour, and never to be forgotten.

It was Barbara who replied to the Canon's
question. At that moment she was the
stronger of the two, and seeing Hartas's
white face by the foot of the bed, his dark

eyes lifted pleadingly to hers, his mute white
lips almost tremulous, she smiled, and spoke
for him as for herself.

'No, the word has never been said — the
word that you ask about. How should it
have been said ? For from the time that it
was possible, that is to say, the time when
your nephew helped to save me and mine from
a terrible death, he has given me no chance
to say it. . . . Is not that true, Mr. Theyn V

The pale face at the lower end of the bed
flushed with a tremulous pain.

If the question hasn't been put into
words, I think you have known ivy,' the
young man said, speaking awkwardly enough,
vet not without pathos in his accent and
appeal.

Barbara could only blush the more deeply,
and look down in silence.

4 Say it's true, Barbara !— that you've never
given me the chance to speak — not a fair
chance — since you must have known I
couldn't presume after that night out in the
roads.* 'Twas for you to give way a little

Roads,' a common term for the sheltered waters off a
seaport or shallow bay.

then — to make some opening. I've waited
for it, I've waited all along, and no one can
say I haven't waited patiently !'

1 It's just as I thought f the Canon said.
'It is all just as I imagined it to be. . . .
But, oh, how foolish you have been ! Life
is very short; it is very full of pain, of suffering,
of all that calls for human fortitude and
endurance. Therefore it is that it seems tome
that no crumb of happiness, of true happiness,
should ever be permitted to fall to the
ground. And you are wasting yours — both
of you. Was it needful that I should die ?
that I should lie here in a brief waiting space,
waiting for the friend " I travel to meet ?"
Was this to be before I could see you together,
urge you not to waste one more day
of possible happiness ? . . . Ah, how strange
it is r

The Canon was not impatient. The truth
was written on each of the two true faces
beside him ; and it was the very truth that
he had longed to see, to know.

In the silence that followed, Hartas came
round to the side of the bed where Barbara
had hitherto stood alone, quite near to the

Canon. In the nervous awkwardness but
natural to her she had refused to sit down.
Hartas held out his hand, a strong, brown
hand, and he looked into her face as he
offered it.

Perhaps it was better that he did not
speak. Barbara saw the palpitating tremor
it was almost fear — as if he knew that
that one moment must decide everything.

It was a strong and deep silence that
followed. The Canon looked from the one
face to the other, then he smiled, and holding
out his own hand, he clasped the two
hands that had already met, binding them
there in his own warm, almost convulsive
clasp.

1 It is decided then V he said. ' You are
one ? . I go with this knowledge V

Hartas placed his other hand upon the
one that Barbara had left in the Canon's
grasp.

You will yield at last f he said, looking
into the strong, suffering face of the girl.
1 Say that you will ! You shall not repent,
Barbara. Every hour of all my future life
shall be set to make your life in this world

vol. in. 55

happy — both our lives happy in the world to
be ! . . . Say a word, only one ; you have it
in your power to make — well, I was going to
say hell or heaven of the days to come. But
that would be going beyond the truth ; and
there is no need for that. The simple truth
lies deep enough between us two. . . . You
yield at last f

The final word had been uttered with
extreme difficulty, as Barbara saw and
heard, and with equal difficulty she replied
to it.

1 I will be your wife,' she said, almost
sobbing out the words, yet controlling herself
with all the strength left to her. And,
as each one then felt, the betrothal was
almost as a sacrament, being solemn and
holy and binding. A light word, a careless
smile, had jarred upon the sense of any one
assembled in that room as the passing of some
evil thought had jarred upon the soul.

It is decided, then V the Canon said
presently. ' You will make each other
happy V

I will do my best,' Hartas replied, speaking
with evident effort.

Barbara only smiled gravely. She had no
more words at her command just then.

1 T believe that you will — that you will do
the very best it is in your power to do,'
Canon Godfrey replied, turning to Hartas.
And I do not think that words of mine are
needed now to show you what that best
means. . . . After all, life is very simple for
the most part, aud when it is complex the
simplest heart and mind sees its way most
clearly. . I have not strength left to say
much more ; but let me impress two things
upon you. The first is this : hold fast by
prayer. If you are well, and happy, and allis
going smoothly, thank God in prayer. If
you are fearful, and doubtful, and tremulous
for the future, take all your doubt and fear
to One who alone can understand. Take it
there, and leave it there — nay, remain there
yourself.

" Safe on the steps of Jesu's throne,
Be tranquil, and be blest."

What a picture that is in two brief lines
for a soul worn, wearied, suffering ! But it
is not given to us to stay there long — at the

55—2

foot of the Great White Throne. We have
to come down from such mountain heights
as these to face the fight in the valley below,
the valley of every-day life, every-day endurance,
every-day suffering and self-denial.
. . And that brings me to the second
thing I have to say — the force and the
power that is to be bought by the mere
denial to one's self of things lawful in themselves.


I have not strength left to say all I
would wish to say on this head, but let
me urge at least this, that you will make
trial of judicious self-restraint even in
common things. It may be that you have
done much, it is joy to me to believe that
you have, yet to all of us there remain
heights not yet attempted. And when we
have gained them, the last of them in sight
at starting, we find that there are yet others
beyond ; so it is that the allurements of the
spiritual life lead us on from the world that
now is to the world that is to be. And how
grateful we should be for such gradual drawing
! . . . Only let us always try to respond
to the least and faintest call from the spirit-world

which is but just outside; let us never
fail to be responsive.

We are more than we seem ; the worst,
the lowest, the weakest human soul among us
is more than we deem it to be.

" Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting,
The soul that rises with us, — our life's star,
Hath had elsewhere its setting,

And cometh from afar.
Not in entire forgetfulness,
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory do we come
From God, who is our home." '

LET US ARISE, And GO.'

1 Is it deep sleep, or is it rather death ?
Rest anyhow it is, and sweet is rest.'

One day, not many weeks before, the Canon
had asked to have a curious little fancy gratified.
In the room that had been Thorhilda's
schoolroom there was an old piano which had
belonged to his mother. It had not been
much used of late : it might not be in good
tune ; yet its notes had a lingering, old-fashioned
sweetness of their own.

Have it brought downstairs for me, Diligent
dear,' he had begged. ; I should like it
to stand just outside my room, in that recess
on the landing.'

As a matter of course his wish had been
gratified, and now and then he had played a
little wandering music on it himself; now

and then, too, his wife had played ; but more
frequently he had asked his niece to play
the things he loved best : simple, plaintive
pieces of music they were for the most part,
demanding more expression than execution.
One especial favourite was a ' Preghiera,'
from the Zama of Harold, a prayer that
seemed more like a quiet yielding up of all
that was left to offer than like beseeching or
yearning. He had never ceased to weary of
this.

And now, this autumn morning, he asked
once more for the piano to be opened ; he
made the request so simply, so naturally, that
Thorhilda felt no sense of incongruity.

1 Play it once again, dear, the prayer !' he
asked, holding out his hand, which his
niece took and held in hers for a moment
or two.

The sunlight was lower now, lower upon
the white coverlet of the bed. The shadow
of the ash-tree leaves still danced to and fro ;
the room was still flooded with the light of
the morning sun, and he who lay there wished
to have it so.

They were all there, those whom he loved

best. His wife sat beside him, restraining
her tears with all the strength of self-control
she had. Hartas Theyn and Damian Alden-mede
stood side by side at a little distance.
Barbara Burdas was by the window. She
would have left the room, but the dying man
had washed her to remain, thinking in his
own heart that her calm strength would help
to strengthen others.

It might have seemed strange to some that
anyone should wish for music in that last
dread hour of life : but there was no strangeness
in the request for anyone who had known
Hugh Godfrey intimately. Thorhilda understood,
and complied at once ; and even for
herself it was well that she did.

The notes came softly, gently — ah ! that
one might reproduce them here with all their
beautiful yielding and renunciation — sad
beauty it is, yet even the sadness is pure and
unearthly.

There was a smile on the face of the dying
man, a look of quiet and perfect happiness, ashe
lay and listened. When the last note had
been played, he looked up for his niece's return
to his bedside.

1 Thank you, Thorda,' he said, speaking
with not much apparent effort. ' And now I
am going to sleep. . . . Let me say goodbye.
. . . And let me say something else
I have not had the courage to say as yet. It
is this. I say it to one and all. I say it
with all the strength left to me. Do not
sorrow for me when I am gone ! . . . I entreat
you not to sorrow.

You remember the words heard of him to
whom the vision was vouchsafed in the Isle
of Patmos — words uttered by a voice from
Heaven, saying :

• « Write : Blessed are the dead that die in
the Lord from henceforth : Yea, saith the
Spirit, that they may rest from their labours"

1 That they may rest ! . . . I have not
talked much of my weariness, have I, Diligent
dear ? But I have been very tired. . . .
Life is a very tiring thing. . I have an
opinion — I have held it long — that human
life will not always * be so tiring. . I
think people will see, will have their eyes
opened to discern when their friends, their
neighbours, are breaking down, dying for
very tiredness. And then they will help

each other. . . . They will not wait to show
their sympathy by sending a beautiful wreath
of white flowers to the grave-side. . . . No,
they will see a little before ; and help will
be given; and people will rest. They will
know what it is to rest in life — not in death
only. . . . And there are other changes
coming— greater than these. I shall see
them, but not now. I shall behold them,
but not nigh. . . . But I have no wish
to wait to see — no, none at all. . I am
too weary — so very weary that I am glad to
go.

Glad — yes, but not glad as those are who
enter into life singing. No ; I must enter
sighing, if. indeed, I enter at all — sighing for
things done, for things left undone.

If there be any singing, it will be the
song of those who make joy in the presence
of the Angels of God over each sinner that
repents.

Those who make joy in the presence of
the Angels ! . . . Who are they ? . . . Surely
they must be of those who know of the sins,
the sufferings of the human beings who repent
? . . . Knowledge they must have of us

who sin — yes, knowledge and sympathy —
deep and keen sympathy with every soul
acquainted with spiritual failure. . . . And
which of us is not acquainted with such
failure ? . . .

We have dreams — nay, more than dreams,
more than visions, more than ideals — we
have a well-defined model of life set before
us in closest detail, minutest detail. . . .
And we will not see it. If we are now
and then compelled to see, we refuse to
follow.

1 We refuse. . . . Now that I lie here,
dying, I see that I myself have refused to
live up to the standard of life demanded
of me.

jt, ji. jg* jg. «xr#

**?• ^r w w w

'Aldenmede. . . . Thorda. . . . Live the
life I would now live if I could f 1

Two years have passed by — years of change,
of joy, of sorrow to almost every one of those
whose life-story has been told or touched upon
in this brief history.

As a matter of coarse, there is a new
Rector at Yarburgh Rectory — a young,
strong, energetic man, who has had his own
way to fight, and has fought somewhat
bravely. If some new story-teller were to
tell his tale, and to tell it truly, it would be
worth the reading. But, indeed, I think he
could tell it best himself. If his story should
perchance be as lively as his sermons, one
might consider that a new departure in autobiography
had been taken.

The old way of ending a story to the music
of the church bells that ring out the old solo
of single life, ring in the beautiful new duet of

the life to be, is not at all a way to be decried.
It is commonplace, you say ; so is the fact it
represents.

But the art to tell the true story of
the marriage that took place at Yarburgh
awhile ago is not mine. People said it
was a very beautiful wedding — that the two
people principally concerned, that is to say,
Thorhilda Theyn and Damian Aldenmede,
looked, each of them, so grand, so great, that
the onlookers felt as if they had never
seen either of them with any true appreciation
before. And it was not the dress — even
Mrs. Kerne, the bride's aunt, made haste to
say that. No, it was not the dress — for even
Miss Theyn's dress, though it was white, and
light, and suggestive of all maiden purity,
was yet not a costly or studiously impressive
costume. The Gainsborough Gazette described
it in detail ; describing also the dress of the
two bridesmaids, one of whom was the bride's
sister, Miss Khoda Theyn, and the other the
Honourable Sarah Thelton. Other details
were added, among the rest, that Mr. and
Mrs. Aldenmede had started on their wedding
tour a few hours after the ceremony. They had

decided upon the small and quaintly attractive
hotel in the Finstermuntz Pass as a place in
which to live for awhile in perfect beauty, in
perfect quiet. How perfect the beauty was
can hardly be told in words. The snow was
white upon the Alpine heights ; the mountain
torrents rushed rapidly down the scarred
rocks, among the dark pines. All day long
the sun shone brilliantly into the ravine —
shining with such force, such glad exhilaration
as made of life a new and keen pleasure.

Every morning, as soon as I am fairly
awake, I feel new made,' Mrs. Aldenmede
declared. ' I believe that if I might live
here I should never grow old. . . . And you,
Damian, you look ten years younger than
you did on the day on which I first saw
you J'

You remember that day V

1 Remember it l Am I likely to forget %
. . What I would forget, if I could, is the
blindness that came after.'

i And long ago I commanded you to put
all recollection of that away. . . . Dear, we
cannot afford to look too much into the past.
We can none of us afford that. Where is

the man or woman whose past is not spoiled
or marred in one way or another ? All we
have to do is to repent, to confess when we
have erred, and then set out, brightly,
strongly, on a new and better way. And
there is much for us to do. Our life will not
be empty of work, of thought, of much care
for others. . I want to prepare you for
that, dear ; for work rather than leisure ; for
thought rather than ease. . I expect that
there will be no grain of the knowledge, the
experience you have learned while with Mrs.
Thurstone but will not be of use to you now
of use to others

1 And are you fearing that I shall not be
glad to be of use V

You ask that question too lightly for me
to give any formal answer. If you were
truly afraid of my opinion it would be
different. . . . No ; . . . I expect that I shall
only have to exert my influence in the way
of restraint.'

There was another pause, broken by Mrs.
Aldenmede. They were sitting on one of the
rustic seats near the lower part of the garden
if indeed so wild, and uncultivated a spot

could be called a garden at all. A light wind
was whispering in the pines, catching the tops
of the tall campanulas ; a perfect chorus of
crickets were chirping loudly in the grass.

c I hope you have been impressed by one
thing,' Thorda said at last. ' I have been
your wife now seven weeks, and I have not
asked you seven questions concerning your
future home — yours and mine.'

Damian smiled.

I have been greatly impressed,' he replied ;
but I think I have understood. . It was a
little penance, was it not V

1 Not a little one. I have wanted to know
so much.'

It is somewhat strange that you should
have kept your silence unbroken until today.'


Is it ? . . . Why 1 ? . Is to-day more than
any other day V

1 In one sense it is. . . . You saw what a
packet of letters I had this morning V

Yes ; and I saw that one or two absorbed
you, and that you gathered them up, and
took them away, and never spoke of them tome
at all.'

A nd yet you ask no question ! You area
dear, patient wife. . It consoles me to
think that reward may come.'

It has come ; I know it ; I know
that something has happened ! Tell me
what !'

Damian Aldenmede rose up from his seat
and walked up and down the road for
awhile. The expression on his face was very
grave.

I ought not to keep you in suspense,' he
said at last. ' My uncle is dead ; he died
suddenly nearly four days ago. The telegram
that was sent has never reached us. It is
too late for us to dream of going to King's
Alden for the funeral. . I am very
sorry ; and I think — I fear we must go
soon.'

Mrs. Aldenmede received the news in
silence. Though she did not understand all,
she knew much ; at any rate, she knew that
the two sons of Sir Ralph Aldenmede had
been dead for some years. King's Alden —
a place of which she had heard from others
would now belong to her husband ; and
the title would be his — and hers. But
vol. in. 56

she recollected that, in all probability, no
great wealth would come with the title, while
assuredly great responsibility would come.
This was what her husband had tried to
prepare her for.

Presently she joined him as he walked up
and down, placing her arm in his, and walking
silently for a while.

King's Alden is a pretty place, is it not V
she asked by-and-by.

Pretty ? No, dear, I should not call it
pretty. I do not suppose it could ever be
made so. . . . Still, we will do what we can,
and we need not live there more than you
like.'

jfc-ab jfe a m.

*?v* *3s" '7S* W •JV'

It was not much more than a month later
when one evening a carriage drove in at the
gates of the avenue of chestnuts that lined
the way to King's Alden. It was early
twilight. The tall trees almost shut out the
sky. The broad white road gleamed straight
all the way before them ; here and . there a
marble vase held some rare late-flowering"
plant ; here and there a fountain was playing
in the midst of a bed of gay flowers.

There were lights in the windows all along
the front of the house ; a stately house it
was, built by Vanbrugh, and frequently mentioned
as one of the architect's master works,
though rather for its beauty of proportion
than for its size or grandeur. It was built of
the red granite of the neighbourhood ; yet it
had in the daylight a curiously cold and hard
look.

Marian Aldenmede, who had seen it in
his youth, had had a strong fear that the
present mistress of King's Alden might be
rather repelled than attracted by the first
sight of it. He was glad that the gray
twilight lent so much soft mystery to it, and
to its surroundings — glad too that their late
arrival necessitated the lighting of many
lamps and candles. All seemed bright enough
now. There were some dozen of the old
servants of the place gathered to greet them ;
flowers and plants had been placed in abundance
; and above, on every side of the
four-square hall, the portraits of former
possessors looked down, not all of them
Aldenmedes.

The place had changed hands more than

56—2

once since Sir John Vanbrugh had received
his final cheque from the first owner. But
the place had been long enough in the hands
of the ancestors of Sir Damian Aldenmede
for him to be enabled to feel, if not pride,
then certainly satisfaction, in taking possession
of a place that he hoped to be able to
look upon as a home for him and for his for
generations to be. It was no low or unworthy
sensation that he felt as he handed
his wife from the carriage that had been
sent to meet them ; escorted her up the
wide gray steps, into the stately old entrance-hall.


A white-headed man, grave and venerable,
the steward of the late owner of King's
Alden, came forward with a little speech,
that seemed to die on his lips as Lady
Aldenmede hastened with girlish haste from
her husband's side and took the old man's
hand. She could bear no more of his formal
and studied words.

I am glad, very glad to come to a home
where there are some who are glad to seeme,'
she said, with enthusiasm in every tone
and look.

Then, turning to the others who stood
near, she said :

It will require time to make us known to
each other ; but no time is needed for me to
assure you that we shall do our best to make
this house a real home for everyone who
may live under its roof — a real home, a
Christian home, God granting that it be so.
I will tell you later all I mean by that ;
and my husband will tell you better than I
can. He has an idea that the true home is
the world's true centre. I need hardly
say that I agree with him ; indeed, how
much I agreed, I did not know till this
present hour.'

Then, quite suddenly, the momentary
enthusiasm failed, or rather the power to
express it failed.

I haven't made a speech, have I, dear V
Lady Aldenmede asked of her husband when
they were left alone in the wide yet cheery-looking
room, which had been prepared for
them by no unwilling hands.

Flowers were there ; they were every -
were. The dressing-table in Lady Alden-merle's
room was a very miracle of loveliness,

and signs of care, of thought, were visible on
every hand. It was not wonderful that half
an hour later, when her husband came to
see if she were dressed for dinner, he found
her in tears — tears not easily charmed
away.

'It seems as if God Himself had rained
down upon one's head the coals of fire, the
vengeance of an extreme and tender lovingness.
. . . You see it all, Damian, do you
not ? Remember how I fell because of my
dread of poverty, of a cold and naked life.
Then at the last moment I was saved ; and
after that it seemed as if all else must be
penitence, as if only an extreme of privation
could reconcile me to myself. And though I
had a sort of fear in marrying you, a fear
that my time of probation might probably bu
at an end, I did not dream of this, how could
I ? How could I dream of anything sofar
beyond the brightest earthly prospect
ever opened to me, even in thought before.
And now, now I feel so small, so mean, so
unworthy. It is as if some one had cast a
splendid gift at me with words of scorn.
And yet this is no right mood, and no, I do

not rightly express my true mood, not all of
it. I am grateful, I am very grateful, and I
am happy in the midst of all my regretful
sorrow, I am very happy ! . . . We can do
so much now, can we not, Damian ? There
must be something to be done in a neighbourhood
like this !'

1 Something ! I fear that everything waits
to be done. So far as I know, the entire
district about King's Alden has been neglected,
and this for generations. It will
require our time, our money, our prayers, our
patience, and the utmost of our help and
strength. . . . Do not be afraid, dear, do
not dread an unbroken felicity.'

1 It is better so.'

1 It is much better. . It seems like a
paradox, but I am happier far in knowing
that my happiness is not likely to be unshaded,
that the shadow of the crosses
that fall upon other lives may cast the
blessing of that shadow over my own,
over both our own. . So we need not
fear.'

No. . . . Yet is it not strange how an
element of fear seems almost always to

be mingled Tvith any sudden or great
felicity V

'Yes, it is strange ; but I for one would
not wish it otherwise. And since it seems
almost universal there is doubtless some truth
hidden underneath to be discovered at a later
date. Often it seems to me that the world
is yet but in its infancy. We know so little ;
we discern that there is so much yet to
be known.'

1 So it has seemed to me.' Thorda replied ;
6 yet I fancy that each one of us by our
human life (if truly lived) may advance the
science of human living somewhat.'

'Ah! there you touch upon an immense
truth. Our life if truly lived ! We can none
of us grasp all that that means in a single
moment. Only the surface ideas occur to us.
We know r that we should be patient, be
temperate, self-denying ; that we should
have compassion for the sorrows of others,
nay, that we should seek out such sorrows,
set ourselves to avert sorrows that are only
on the way to others ; but there is much
beyond that we do not recognise. Which of
us has a truly tender dread of the ills that

mar the inner life of the people about us?
Nay, do we not start aside and leave
suspected suffering to cure itself, or develop
itself, as may be in the nature of it ? Dreading
the evil of interference, we strike upon
the rock of neglectful indifference.'

i And how shall any human being perceive
the right medium V

Only by being lovingly human. The
true lover of humanity can hardly make
grievous mistakes. If he should, his very
lovingness would cause his mistakes to be
forgiven.

Charity beareth all things, believeth all
things, loveth all things, endure all
things. . . . Charity never falleth.'

*****

In the spring of the year that followed,.
Sir Damian and Lady Aldenmede went once
again to Ulvstan Bight. Mrs. Godfrey went
with them — indeed, she went with them
everywhere, as a cherished and valued companion,
one who helped to make their home-life
richer and fuller, and graced it with
much knowledge and experience.

The meeting between those who came

from King's Alden and those who came
from Garlaff Grange was as interesting as it
was affectionate. Mr. and Mrs. Hartas Theyn
Avere foremost in the group of people who
entered the drawing-room at the new Alexandra
Hotel. The Squire and Rhoda had
purposely lingered a little behind, but it was
easy to see that no ill-feeling had inspired
them. The dinner passed off lightly and
pleasantly, all undue warmth of emotion being
decorously kept in the background for that
evening.

It was next morning on the cliff top
that Sir Damian Aldenmede, meeting" Mrs.
Hartas Theyn, was enabled to say a fitting
word — a word that seemed to close a certain
chapter of the family history. And Barbara
replied with a dignity, a gentleness, a winningness
all her own.

I always look upon that day when I met
you on the scar as the beginning of my life's
happiness,' she said. ' The beginning of all
true search after truth ; of all that has been
good and helpful to me. Before you had
spoken to me of anything but the common
speech of the day I had wished to do something

for you — to rise in some way a little
nearer to your level. You awoke something
in me that had slept before, but could never
sleep again. And then you showed all your
true generosity and helped me in every way;
and then she, Thorhilda, began to help me
too ; and how I loved you both, and felt as
if my love were all one ! It is so natural
now, to be able to think of you together.
Indeed, I think I have never thought of you
apart. . . . And oh ! I am happy, very
happy ! To think of my being even related
to you — to the very people I love so much !
Yes, I never thought to be so happy!'

And it is an all-round sort of happiness V
Damian Aldenmede asked.

Barbara looked up quickly.

You are meaning with regard to my
husband \ He has only one fault — an undue
humility. I shall never cure him of it. But
I am not sure that I wish to do so. . . . If
he has another fault, it is an undue generosity.
The money he gives away, the
people he asks to come and stay with us,
would be beyond belief if I were to tell you
of it all in detail. But, somehow, we do

not really seem the poorer for it. . . . And
if we were, I believe that we should still be
happy — even very happy ; he is so gentle,
and so thoughtful, and so careful of me and
mine. You know that he has sent Jack to a
food school at Danesborougrh : and if he
were little Illa's own father he could not
love her more. And the child's love for him
is most touching ! If I had any jealousy in
me it would certainly be awakened when I
see her rushing to the door with her little
arms outspread to meet him, and his outstretched
to clasp her ! . . . Ah ! yes ; I ama
very happy woman !'

Damian Aldenmede went away from the
top of the cliff in a mood not easy to describe
— the elements being so very various.
Gratitude stirred in him, and wonder, and
reverence; and last, but not least, repentance
for the want of faith and hope that had
darkened so many of his days, and darkened
them so unreasonably.

Why do we not trust more V he asked
of himself. ' Surely the want of trust means
defect in one's self! To live nobly, rightly,
humanly, would be to store up a reserve for

the days to be — even though the clays should
be few and evil.

1 " Few and evil " we deem them, these
days of ours — but that is when they are
overcast.

'In the beginning all is lightness and
brightness — and all we have, all we desire, is
flooded in the light of hope. Then disappointment
follows, with perhaps despair ;
and the utmost we can do is to hold on for
awhile, as people cling to a wreck in the
darkness and the storm.

And after the storm comes calm, with
daybreak, and the sun shining over the tops
of the dark mountains of grief that had
surrounded us on every side. So we come
to understand the ordering of this human
life of ours, that it is but as a travelling
from the cradle to the grave — leading us,
now by fair valleys, clothed with the olive
and the vine, now by barren Alpine heights,
where only snow and hail and mist lend
variation to the scene. Again we descend,
perhaps to the dreary shore of some dead
sea of life, where w T e may wander on un-hopefully,
nay, even wistfully. We would

lie down and die if we could do so sinlessly
; and we wonder that sin should be in
the wish.

But by-and-by the sun rises once more —
the sun of faith, of hope, of belief in all
that makes life worth the living. Then it is
that we rise to full consciousness of all
that lies in the tender, yearning, loving
saying :

" Ye ivill not come unto Me, that ye might
have life'"

Then it is that at last we awaken to full
perception of that great, grand truth, there
is no life but that — the life hid in Christ
Jesus.

1 "lam the Life, the Truth, the Way /"

There is no other life, no other truth, no
other way. All else is pain and darkness,
and ignorance, and death.

1 There is no other way but the way of the
cross, the way of daily, hourly self-denial, of
perpetual watchfulness ; the way of unceasing
prayer.

" Pray without ceasing"

'That is life's last secret.

The man or woman who is acquainted

with that secret will be in no danger of
exchanging his or her soul for any mess of
pottage to be offered by this world of ours
this seductive, tempting, disappointing
world.'

THE END.

ElLI.^G AND sorts. PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

3 0112 049098673
