OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

LG58t

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

DEC lf)1!J73
DEC 10 1973

L161 — O-1096

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

THE TRACK OF THE STORM. By Dora Russell,

author of ■ Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken Seal,' &c. 3 vols.

HUGH Warrington. By Gertrude Force, author of

'Driven before the Storm,' 'Only a Coral Girl,' &c. 3 vols.

THE DEATH SHIP : A Strange Story. By W. Clark

Russell, author of ' The Wreck of the Grosvenor,' &c. 3 vols.

THE YOUNGEST MISS GREEN. By F. W. Robinson,

author of 'Grandmother's Money,' &c. 3 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF DIVES. By Leith Derwent,

author of 'Circe's Lovers,' 'King Lazarus,' &c 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

THE LONG NIGHT

Br

E. LYNN LINTON

PATRICIA KEMBALL,' 'THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS,
IONE ' 'PASTON CAREW,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

1889.

All Rights Reserved.

«

AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED
TO

SIR BRUCE AND LADY SETON

gn gtaoriam, 1887.

1888.

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

GHAVTEB
I.

II.
III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI

XII

BOOK THE FIRST.
twilight.

The 'Sacra Fames' •
The Cimon of Kingshouse
His Iphigenia -
The Gold that Glitters
The Mouse and the Lion
Star or Moonlight .

Between Two Fires .

Lovers 1 Vows .

In Doubt and Dread

The Crossing of the Rubicon

On the Other Side .

The Power of Love

Park




M











MIDNIGHT.

I. The New Trustee .



TWILIGHT.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

THE ' SACRA FAMES.'

Preaching down a daughter's heart was not a
difficult task to a mother like Mrs. Clanricarde.
Circumstances compelled her conduct and character
strengthened her resolve; and, when
conditions and feelings are in accord, there we
have that triple wall of brass which no human
power can break down.

We will enumerate the conditions and circumstances
which made the mother preach
down her daughter's heart. These were : — An
unbusiness-like husband who never realized a
security but he lost, nor moved an investment

B 2

but he lessened it, yet who, believing in his
commercial i fair,' was always dabbling in the
stock and share market for the benefit of everyone
but himself; — The love of luxury and the enforced
privations of genteel penury ; — The pride
of ambition and the consciousness of gradual
social decline ; — The irritation, coupled with contempt,
natural to a clever woman keenly alive
to the mistakes of her partner, yet powerless to
prevent and doomed only to suffer ; — The mother's
natural desire that her daughter's rare gift of
supreme beauty, utilized as her dowry, should
be the means of placing her beyond the reach
of that grim wolf so closely investing her own
homestead. All these created that * auri sacra
fames' which made Mrs. Clanricarde as hard as
iron, as cold as ice, and as cruel as death in the
matter of Estelle's present love and potential
marriage. It made her as one stone-deaf to the
alternate hymns and threnodies of love poured
forth by Charlie Osborne — as handsome as a
Greek god and as penniless as a church mouse.
It made her as one stone-blind to Estelle's tears
and sighs and loss of appetite and slightly faded

bloom — save that this last indeed aroused in hera
certain secret anger which was the sworn foe
of pity. For this depreciation of her capital was
as heinous an offence in Estelle, according to
the mother's way of looking at things, as were
Mr. Clanricarde's speculations in the House,
whereby a thousand became five hundred, and
percentage was the ' peau che chagrin ' which
every touch made smaller.

In this momentous question of her marriage,
Mrs. Clanricarde assumed to know better than
her daughter; and perhaps she was not far
wrong in her assumption. Charlie Osborne had
everything that a romantic girl adores, but that
a far-seeing mother despises as the foundation
of the home and family. And with Mrs. Clan-ricardo
the mother's outlook overlapped the
daughter's romance.

It made no difference in the ordering of
things that no eligible parti was at hand to
take up the silver thread, which she was resolved
Charlie Osborne should not hold. The
two moneyless curates, the one scantily-endowed
squireen, and the rosy-gilled doctor who made up

the bachelordom round about Kingshouse, were
not a whit more desirable than this impecunious
Eudemon, and not half so charming. And
Caleb Stagg, the only son and heir of old Miles
Stagg, the wealthy owner of Redhill and a former
coal-miner, was impossible — at least to
Estelle, if Mrs. Clanricarde would have shut her
eyes and swallowed the gilded sausage whole.
But the chapter of accidents has a long coda ;
and the chapter of accidents in the life-story
of a lovely girl of twenty has only just begun.

'It is of no use, Estelle,' Mrs. Clanricarde
would say in her high-pitched voice and petulant
French intonation ; ' it is of no use to cry
and make a miserable face. If you marry Charlie
Osborne you will marry into misery ; and I
would rather see you dead than go through what
I have done.'

If only you would believe in his future, and
let us wait !' pleaded Estelle, tears in her large
soft eyes which were like big brown moths lying
within a white seashell.

< His future ! What of it ? Child, how fatally
touched you are with these stupid English

notions V said Mrs. Clanricarde warmly. ' What
is this young man's future?'

'Fame,' said Estelle; 'and fame is always
fortune.'

1 Fame from what 1 A picture hung by the
Royal Academy? — a drama accepted by a
theatrical manager? — a poem published by an
enterprising publisher ? — and none of the three
strong enough for that success which includes
a banker's book ! That is the future of your
handsome Joconde who aims at eagles and does
not bring down even sparrows ! And, out of
these, where, 1 ask you, is the pot-au-feu V

1 You misjudge him, mother ; you do not give
him credit for what he is,' said Estelle, doing
battle for her beloved with gentle persistency
rather than overt spirit. ' He can be great in
anything he undertakes. He is great already ;
only the world has not yet recognized his
genius, as it will later— as it must.'

< My dear Estelle, you speak like an ignorant
child as you are. Real genius is concentrated,
and does not go squandering itself abroad on
everything alike,' returned Mrs. Clanricarde,

sensibly enough. ' A universal genius is a fated
failure, and never rises beyond mediocrity. He
is always close to excellence, but never actually
touches success. He is always just the line
short. The golden water which is to fill a dry
trench must run through a broad pipe in one
flow, and not filter through a dozen little pin-holes
like a watering-pot. And we want our
dry trench filled, Estelle ; your poor miserable
father has taken care of that !'

Mrs. Clanricarde never lost an opportunity of
impressing on Estelle the contemptible delinquencies
of her father. To the jealous French
mother the daughter ought to belong to her
exclusively, and she did not approve of divided
sympathies. Besides, that patriotism which
means opposition to the present condition of
things, counted for something in her jealousy;
and the French woman born and bred and
never sincerely naturalized, for all that she was
as English in speech and manner as anyone
else, did her best to prevent her daughter from
becoming too Britannic in her ideas. This
daughter had already imbibed that fatal poison

of belief in love and romance which ruined half
the English girls and shamed the common-sense
of half the mothers ; and Mrs. Clanricarde's one
great desire was to root out these pernicious
weeds from Estelle's mind, and plant in their
stead wise views of social life and a just estimate
of the creature-comforts to be got by
money.

1 Girls are so silly !' she used to say, curling
her thin mobile lips into that expressive line of
contempt which only such lips can take. ' As
if love can pay the rent, or kisses feed the children
! — as if the husband matters one jot so
long as he has money and knows how to use
it! — as if I would not rather have married a
veritable gnome than this wretched creature of
mine, with his six feet of folly and his barber's
block of vanity !'

It did not mend matters that Mr. Clanricarde
was secretly on his daughter's side in this matter
of her young love, seeing that for peace' sake
he was compelled to be openly on his wife's.
Taking his own disastrous way as he did in the
manipulation of the family funds, which had

been unwisely left in his sole control, he made
a point of following her lead in all else ; and
while he was ruining her fortunes by his mania
for bad speculations, and alienating her affections
by refusing to listen to her advice, he
made himself so supple, so sweet and tender in
the home that, although she despised and disliked
him heartily enough, she had no more
power to find cause against him — outside opposition
for its own sake only — than she would
have had to crush an india rubber ball. His
prompt acquiescence in her repudiation of Charlie
Osborne as a husband for Estelle almost
made her waver in her own decision. If George
could see good reasons why it should not bethe
chances were those reasons were bad, and
the other side might have something to say for
itself. But maternal prudence was stronger
than even conjugal dissension ; and, after the
wife had cased her mind by a few sniffs and
sneers at the husband, the mother went on as
she had begun, and Estelle was no nearer her
desired destruction than before.

Despite the opposition and the vigilance of

Mrs. Clanricarde, the lovers met in secret as
well as openly in society; for it would have
been impossible to keep Estelle shut np in the
house or to demand the social ostracism of
Charlie Osborne. And, as people with gardens
will give tennis-parties and strawberry-feasts,,
the Clanricardes were forced to go to them
with the rest, and take the consequences ensuing.
The alternative of leaving Kingshouse
was also an impossibility. The domestic money-market
was too tight; and those last investments
had restricted it yet more. Hence, the
matter was one of those problems which even
the most skilful diplomatist among matrons
finds it hard to solve ; and in the game of chess
between love and prudence for the possession
of the fair Estelle, no one could as yet foresee
which would be the winner.

And indeed she was fair — taking the word as-beauty,
not colour. Somewhat above the middle
height — straight as a palm-tree but supple and
slender as a willow-branch — graceful as a fawn
and almost as shy — she was one of those women
to whom poets write sonnets and musicians.

dedicate nocturnal ; one of the women who
make brave men braver still, and weak ones yet
more self-indulgent. In her character the two
main streams of womanly feeling ran side by
side — the gentlest and most captivating reliance
on those who were her superiors by age, sex,
condition ; and the power of self-sacrifice for
love. She was woman — pure womanly throughout.
Body, heart and mind were essentially
feminine — feminine with all the strength and all
the weakness of her sex and type. Weak to
the strong and strong only for love, her love
was of the kind which justifies itself and redeems
its own excess— whole-hearted, passionate,
unselfish, and pure as flame is pure.
Pliant before a firm will, quivering beneath
a brutal hand, she yet had that kind of
courage which could brave the world, the law,
and the commandments, should he who needed
her and whom she loved, find himself on
the outside of virtuous convention. Submissive
as another Lucy Ashton to authority,
she had that power of revolt for the sake of
.another which belongs to a certain kind of gentle

and tenacious nature — that power which not
even the mother who bore her suspected, and
which would be shown only when called forth
by circumstances.

Meanwhile, as things were, she was to all appearance
just a shy, gentle-mannered, pretty
English girl with a foreign name and face :
tightly held by her mother ; secretly adored and
openly neglected by her father ; as secretly worshipped
by the one scantily-endowed squireen
and the two impecunious curates ; frankly admired
by the rosy-gilled doctor; and frantically
beloved by Charlie Osborne, who saw in her his
tenth Muse, his Egeria, his good angel, and the
one absolute necessity of his life. And save
that she met her handsome lover in secret, and
let him say things which would have made her
mother furious had she heard them — more furious
still had she heard the girl's replies — she
obeyed her mother in all things : especially in
the one grand essential of not marrying a man
who could not keep even a servant, not to speak
of a wife, and whose sole possessions were
beauty, love, poetry, art, that delicacy of mind

which belongs to the artistic temperament, and
a constitution which was decidedly fragile and
on the line of something worse. Just so much
grace of common-sense had this young man, and
no more — he did not urge Estelle to run away
with him and begin life and housekeeping on
that one hundred a-year, which was all his fixed
income. Of course in the future he would be a
rich man, because a famous one. That was ascertain
as the rising of tomorrow's sun, to him
as well as to Estelle. Pending that certainty,
however, he was forced to hold his hand and
hope for the best. No one else was to the fore
at Kingshouse — Caleb Stagg being impossible ;
and with this negative comfort he and she must
be content.

Kingshouse was not a rich field for the adventures
of life or the vagaries of fortune. The
scenery was beautiful in a quiet, sleepy, rural
way ; the old-fashioned country town was
quaint and stagnant ; the society was restricted,
and the income-tax collector did not cover much
ground. Save Anne Aspline, whose mother had
been a successfully-married cook, not a girl had

twopence-halfpenny for dower money; and, save
Caleb Stagg, of Redhill, whose father had been
a miner, not a man had more. Charlie Osborne,
the son of the late vicar, stood a head and
shoulders above them all for personal charms ;
and the bachelordom of the district, so sparsely
represented on the tennis-ground, did not touch
him in all that makes a young man desirable
and dangerous. So that Mrs. Clanricarde, while
she repudiated the handsome genius sent back
to his native place because his constitution
could not bear the exhaustion and bad air of
London, had no other string to her slack bow.
And, if the love that could be had was undeniably
supperless, the love that was wanted was
as undeniably bodiless.

So matters stood in the pretty village town
of Kingshouse, when this story opens and the
serious play was about to begin.

CHAPTER II.

THE Cimon OF KTNGSHOUSE.

Nothing, to the high-nosed, blue-blooded gentry
of Kingshouse, seemed so contrary to the
providential ordering of things as that the heir,
par excellence, of the district should be a manlike
young Caleb Stagg — the heiress a girl like
Anne Aspline; though, indeed, in this latter
case, the girl was well enough, taken by herself.
It was the mother who was the stumbling-block,
albeit not of a very formidable kind. With
Caleb, on the contrary, the disabilities went all
the way, like a rope coiled round him ; crushing
the social vitality out of his elsewise vigorous
condition, and reducing what should have been
beauty of circumstances to a mere shapeless
mass of inert uselessness.

As good as the proverbial gold in bis essential
nature, and with a really fine, if limited, tract of
intelligence, young Caleb was as heavy as lead
in his bearing, and as dull as so much unpolished
pudding-stone in his conversation. He had inherited
his physique, but not her blunted intellect,
from his mother — a plain, honest, straight-ward
kind of creature, good for her man and
her child, apt at scrubbing and washing when
she ceased to be a pit-brow woman, but always
stupid at cooking, and absolutely unteachable
for her needle — a creature who had not a personal
charm so soon as she lost the fresh complexion
and plump firmness of youth ; and who
had not an ounce more brain than just lifted her
over the line of the 'half-baked,' and enabled
her to keep her boy from harm and her house
from dirt. She had transmitted herself to Caleb ;
and, like mother, like son, in all things save the
absolute quality of the brain. For Caleb was as
heavily-built and as round-limbed as she ; with
the same light grey eyes, coarse sandy hair,
fresh red and white complexion, small snubby
nose, and large, full, fleshy, unpoetic lips. And

VOL. I. C

what kind of social credentials can be got out
of such an inventory ?

To add to this heavy handicap of nature, the
strong character and close grip of old Miles had
wrought on both wife and child the usual effect
of domination over comparative flaccidity. It
had crushed out of them all such initiative, all
such spirit, as might have been developed, at
least in Caleb, had he been under a more elastic
rule and allowed a freer seaboard.

A man of character and shrewd intelligence,
but utterly untaught, Miles Stagg was what the
country people were wont to call a queer fish
and a rough customer, or, perhaps, a regular
Tory, when he got drunk — which was often er
than should have been, but not so often as might
have been expected. As a set-off, however, he
had that comprehensive quality known as a good
heart — that is, if he broke a man's head he gave
him a golden plaister wherewith to mend it.
And to be free with his fists and open with his
hand seemed to the former miner as fair a
division of things as a reasonable man could
expect.

Having come to his abundant wealth by the
lucky chance of a fine seam of coal in the bankrupt
co-operative mine which he had doggedly
taken on his own square shoulders, he came to it
unprepared by training or even by anticipation ;
and now, with his hundreds of thousands, he
was never more than the miner in his Sunday
clothes, well brushed up and with all the grime
washed off, but with his heart in the skip and
his interests on the bank. Naturally, however,
he thought his money would do, if but little for
himself, much for his son — more, indeed, than it
would. Seeing where it had landed this and
that and t'other, he thought that he, too, had
but to command, and the social forces would
obey. But he did not take into consideration
the difference between himself as represented
by his son, and those others who had brushed
themselves up into passable imitations, if no art
nor science ever yet discovered could make
them the real thing. Miles was but Sly the
tinker in my lord's best bed ; and the freaks of
fortune are no more really metamorphic than
those of great men. Sly may surround himself

c2

with costly luxuries, pillow his scrubby head
on satin, eat dainties out of a golden plate, and
splash his spatulous fingers in rose-water afterwards.
He may clothe his hirsute body in
velvet and embroidery as fine as an emperor's,
all the same, the rust of the pots and pans
he has passed his life in tinkering will not leave
his horny hands; and Plutus himself cannot
make that silken purse we wot of out of a piggish
ear.

Unfortunately — or, perhaps, fortunately — who
knows yet? — young Caleb had none of his
father's social ambition. Specially did he in nowise
share the old man's wishes about marrying
blood and founding a family. Lady Elizabeth
Inchbold, the all but dowerless daughter
of the all but ruined Earl of Kingshouse, was
the mark at which old Miles aimed the shaft of
his desire. If Caleb should accomplish that,
his father would settle well-nigh all his fortune
on the young people, and would withdraw with
his wife for ever from the neighbourhood. He
would content himself with the knowledge of
the fact. He would not seek to share in its

glory, nor even to see the splendour of its rays.
In the midst of the coarse materialism of his
nature lay this one little flower of love, this
purest pearl of unselfishness. If Caleb would
make himself the man he should be, and go in
and win as he ought, he, and not Miles, should
then be the millionaire — he, and not Miles,
should be the great man of the county and the
commander of the future.

But Caleb would as soon have gone into a
lion's den as into the Dower House, where the
earl and countess and their family lived in
secret penance and public pride. The castle
was let to one Mr. Hermann Schmidt, a stockbroker
who knew both how to spend his money
like a prince and make a bargain like Shylock,
and who was at once a generous friend of
whom to ask a favour and a dangerous man
with whom to do business. Old Miles never
made the smallest doubt but that Lady Elizabeth
would accept the golden bait as eagerly asa
hungry trout would take a May-fly. It was
money that ruled the world, so far as he
could see; and, without being personally purse-proud,

he had an exaggerated sense of its
value.

He was a man of a coarse, ripe, Rabelaisian
kind of humour, to whom nothing in the world
was sacred or forbidden. He had no more faith
in humanity than the most gloomy pessimist
who thinks he saves his own soul by calling
those of others, well — not saved. To him life
was a jolly kind of comedy, where the fools
were tricked and lost what they had, and the
wise men held their own and got more. He
laughed and was not offended at this lapse and
that stumble. It was human nature when all
was said and done, he would say ; and that the
4 furred puss-cats ' should scramble for the gold
pieces — the stronger punching the heads of the
weaker, and the weaker scratching slily when
they could not fight openly — that, too, he confessed
and laughed at with the rest.

For himself he knew what he wanted ; and he
meant to have it if he could get it. As he
walked about the house and grounds of Redhill,
loud of voice, sturdy of limb, direct of intent, he
was wont, as he expressed it, to make the

feathers fly. He was wont to make them fly so
thick and fast that all avoided him when they
could, in spite of the broad laugh that followed
the verbal insult, and the * Here, lad ! here's a
plaister for thy head,' which was to salve over
a blow. One man alone stood up to him. This
was an old gang-mate of his, one Jim Fisher,
now made head-gardener, for all that he knew
about as much of modern cultivation as he did
of the differential calculus, and would have
thought it flying in the face of Providence had
he raised strawberries in May or cut grapes in
April. And Jim Fisher — a sturdy, tough old
tyke, who was more like a rough old sea-dog
than a land snail — he withstood his old mate,
now his master, boldly enough, and gave him
back as good as he brought, and sometimes a
trifle beyond. Consequently, he was almost the
only person in existence for whom Miles Stagg
had the faintest feeling of respect, or of whom
he stood in so much wholesome awe as made
him decently well-behaved when his humour
pointed otherwise.

With his timid, silent, and of late years —

when she could no longer keep herself awake
by active work — somnolent wife, old Miles was
not so much roughly brutal as oppressive —
coercing rather than tormenting, and not wishing
in the least to torment. On the contrary,
he meant to be kindly, and he was in truth as
kindly as he knew how to be.

She has been a good wife to me he used to
say, when a little in his cups ; ' and what the —
expletive — if I cannot make a lady of her I'll
not let her feel the differ.'

He had no idea that his close grip and
strong will had suffocated her, and that not all
his broad laughter nor coarse jokes could bring
back to life the feeble spark of individuality he
had crushed out of her. His * Give us a buss,
old lass,' after he had mentally trampled on her,
was on a par with his sovereign given to the
man he had cuffed till he had lamed. The torn
flesh none the worse gaped ; the broken bone
was none the less apart ; and the bruise ached
all the same — that golden ointment notwithstanding.
So with Nancy. Kisses, jokes,
laughter — what you will — nothing restored

the broken will nor reanimated the destroyed
spirit.

It was the same with his son whom he loved
better than his life, bnt whom he now rated like
a hound for his want of character and energy,
and now cursed for a rebel if he dared to say
his soul was his own and he thought he had the
best right to it. He wanted to see the young
fellow take part in the life of the place, and
make his mark as a man of his means should.
He would spare no expense if he could set him
astride on the high-horse of public power and
favour ; and he could not be made to see that
the very tyranny of his endeavour to fashion the
man he would have him to be, frustrated his
efforts, and that, by the means he took, he
thwarted his own ends. How can you get a free-spirited,
high-mettled youth out of a creature
belaboured and thrashed with words and
whips as Caleb Stagg had ever been? From
the day when he was a ten-months' old baby in
his mother's arms and made a wry face at his
daddy's beer, up to now, when he was a grown
man of six-and-twenty, and would not put himself

forward to win the matrimonial blue riband
his father made sure was within his reach, he
had been hustled and hounded and rated and
rasped — all for his own good, mind you ! — and
treated with no more human respect than if he
had been a bit of wax, to be pinched and pulled
and patted and posed as the modeller thought
best.

Old Miles was vexed that he could not make
the lad what he wanted him to be. He wished
him to be a smart, gallant, adventurous kind of
gentleman, who, by sheer pluck and audacity,
would make good his entrance into society, and
know how to keep what he had got till he wished
to go higher. Then he might fling down the
ladders by which he had mounted if he would.
Miles Stagg was no sentimentalist ; and though
he stuck to his old mate, Jim Fisher, to the
detriment of his houses, that was no reason
why young Caleb should play the same soft
game with society. He wished him to do well
for himself, not for others; and, if chestnuts
were to be pulled out of the fire, it was not the
lad's fingers which were to get burned. Whose

was not Miles Stagg's affair. He wished the
boy to join the hunt and ride to hounds as a lad
of spirit should. He should have the freshest
bit of pink and the best horse to be seen at the
cover-side, bar none, if he would. He wished
him to learn how to dance and to go to all the
subscription balls.

Lord, mother ! but it would be rare sport to-see
our Caleb stopping about the floor like a
parched pea on a drum-head !' he would say to
his wife Nancy, with a loud guffaw, after he had
sworn at his son till you thought you saw blue
fire. He wanted him to be hand-in-glove with
this great name and that big swell ; to put himself
forward and make a dash — there was money
enow. And when Caleb, ever mindful of the
fact that he had worked with his father in the
mines up to the age of seventeen, when the coal
was found, kept to his books and his microscope
upstairs, and slunk sheepishly about the lanes
afoot like a tramp — grubbing in the hedges for
bugs or fishing for slime in the ponds, instead of
capering here and there like a lord, with a groom
at his heels and the money jingling in his pockets

old Miles used to have a turn at swearing and
cursing that was like a fever-fit or a bout of
whooping-cough, as irrepressible and severe.
Then, as a solatium, he would buy the lad a
diamond pin or a set of studs which Caleb would
rather have been flayed alive than wear, and
which he accepted with the painful smile that
is on a man's face what tears are in a woman's
eyes.

This kind of treatment had the sole effect of
making young Caleb devote himself yet more
sedulously to the life he had chosen and the
pursuits which delighted him — keeping out of
his boisterous parent's way as much as he could,
and abjuring with the dogged passivity of his
kind the line laid down for him with so many
sharp nails and so many hard knocks. Brought
up as a rough mining lad for all his early life,
at eighteen he had gone to a leal college, after
a year's private training at a clergyman's. But
the grit of the coal-dust, which he had breathed
from his infancy, was never got out of him.
Sensitive, observant, up to a certain point clever
in his own way, and naturally shy and awkward,

he knew and felt all his own disabilities
as his coarser-fibred father did not ; and he kept
within the obscurity which he felt was his best
friend, following the studies which alone made
him forget the sordid realities of things. His
only happy hours were when he was watching
the ways of bird or beast, spying out the secret
arts of attack and defence of reptile and insect,
or getting into the very workshop of Nature
through the microscope. Add to this a close
study of Shakespeare and the translated classics,
and his list was complete. For of late years he
had left off romping with the kitchen-maid in
the hay-loft, as had been his wont when younger
and less developed — the stablemen keeping
watch lest old Miles should come along and
blow the whole place about their ears. But,
even now, a romp with the kitchen-maid would
be preferable to making up to Lady Elizabeth
Inchbold at the Dower House, for all that she
had nothing of the aristocrat about her save
her name, her traditions, her self-respect and
her grace.

1 Thou'lt never do no good, Caleb,' his father

one day said to him, with an angry shrug of his
stalwart shoulders. k What use have it been to
waste all this brass on thy learning, when thought
nought but a doomed fool at the end of it ? Thy
mother's no lady, and thee's no gent ; and, hang
me, if the money had not better go to make a
hospital for dead jackass than to such lily-livered
spencer as you two.'

Miles had often said the same thing before;
but to-day he emphasized his disapprobation
with stronger intonation ; impelled thereto by
his vexation that Caleb had refused to take up
an invitation to a garden-party at the vicarage
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart, the vicar and vicars,
being of that good and wholesome sort which
likes to draw all society into the one golden net
of kindly feeling, and therefore including young
Caleb Stagg in their invitations.

'You know, father, that I do not care for
these parties,' said Caleb, awkwardly. ' They
are not in my line, and I am never my own man
in them.'

He spoke with a better accent than his father,
and in a more finely modulated voice ; but there

was always the unmistakable provincial accent ;
and neither the clergyman nor the college had
knocked the rustic out of him, to put in its place
even the semblance of a gentleman.

'And thee doesn't make account of thy duty
to me, as brought thee up,' said Miles. * What
thy father wishes doesn't weigh so much as the
tail-end of a mouse with thee. Thy father, who
has slaved for thee, and thought night and day
of nought but thee and what would be for thy
good — thought nought better to do than flout
and fleer, when he wants thee to hold up thy
head as thou should'st with the best.'

8 You know, father, I never meant to flout or
fleer you said Caleb, earnestly ; ' but I do not
feel called on to go about among these people.
They think themselves of another make of flesh
and blood from us, and they don't care a jot for
our money — got, as it were, by a fluke, and with
such owners as we.'

Such owners as we ! And what the dickens
dost mean by that, jackanapes V shouted Miles.

Why, just this, father — we are not gentlemen,
and we can't pretend that we are,' said Caleb.

Toots — toots, lad ! Brass'll gild a miner's
pick till it is as fine as my lord's sword,' said
Miles, half in fun and half in anger. ' The
gentry at Kingshouse ain't far different from
men and women elsewhere, I reckon ; and a full
purse goes as far, my lad, as those mouldy old
coats-farms, with nothing behind them but
lean chaps and family pride. Go thy w r says, I
tell thee. Hie upstairs, Caleb, like a good lad,
and do as thy father bids. Don thy best coat,
and go to the vicarage with the rest. And if
thou'lt bring me home a well-doing, likely
daughter-in-law, like that Lady Elizabeth yonder,
I'd not care to call the king my uncle.
And I'd set thee up in housekeeping so that the
king shouldn't be put about to call thee nephew.'

Caleb still hesitated — silent, awkward, reluctant,
abashed ; when his father suddenly flew
into a rage such as even he was not accustomed
to see ; and with curses, kicks, blows and oaths
offered him his choice — to go or to leave the
house that very moment, disinherited for ever.
His son had therefore nothing for it but to bend
before the storm, and yield to his father's desire ;

and thus it was that for the first time in his life
he formed one of the Kingshouse gatherings,
and made his entrance into the fair company of
whom Lady Elizabeth Inchbold was the social
queen andEstelle Clanricarde the Star of Beauty.

VOL. I. D

CHAPTER III.

HIS IPHIGENIA.

One of old Miles Stagg's favourite aphorisms was
that fine birds are made by fine feathers. Give
Colin Clout a good coat, a flashy necktie, a gold
chain as thick as a ship's rope, studs as big as
sixpences, and all the rest to correspond, and
Miles could see no difference between his appearance
and that of the smartest young Jemmy
Essay in the land. If Jemmy were to be
dressed in flannels, the difference, indeed, would
be to the good of Colin. Consequently, though
Caleb, from his experience of college life, knew
slightly better than his father, and from his more
delicately-organized brain had at all times keener
and quicker perceptions, he was forced to obey
the old man's imperative command that he should

make himself as smart as nine pence, and take
the shine out of that gang of genteel paupers he
would meet in the vicarage gardens to-day.

His close-fitting frock-coat was new to rawness
and distractingly faultless; his black
trousers were still in the tailor's well-defined
creases ; his glossy hat shone like a blackened
mirror; his jewellery was resplendent. Over
the edge of his stiff white collar, guillotined
with an aniline crimson tie fastened by a large
diamond horseshoe pin, his round, flat, unmeaning
face rose like a pug-dog's changed from
black to red and white, and from latinity into
a fairly good sketch of humanity. His fawn-coloured
gloves matched the colour of his hair ;
and his patent leather boots crippled the flat
feet which, for the most part, expatiated in
greased boots where his corns were not tortured.
Such as he was, holding himself as stiffly as if
trussed beneath his clothes, shy, sheepish, uncomfortable,
self-conscious, and not a whit reassured
by his father's boisterous commendation
nor by his mother's vacant smile, the young
man mounted the dog-cart, which the coach

2

man drove — the smart groom sitting behind, his
arms folded and his tongue in his cheek — and
went off to one of those informal tennis-parties
which Mr. and Mrs. Stewart gave weekly for
the pleasure of the young people and the promotion
of social good feeling.

It need hardly be said what impression the
poor young man made when he came on the
lawn, somewhat after time because of the
struggle at home, his wonderful get-up contrasting
so sharply with the loose flannels of the
rest — the tightly-buckled belts, the turned-up
sleeves, the well-worn cricket shoes, and all the
other loose points of the time and occasion. Not
the dear good vicars herself could resist that
little smile which comes unbidden on the first
flush of a ridiculous surprise, while some of the
worse bred and less kindly tittered audibly.
Lord Eustace, Lady Elizabeth's younger brother,
the elder, Lord Royne, was in India, which
allowed the cadet to give himself the airs of the
major, — gave a slight whistle, which was the
rudest thing of all. But then he was a lord and
entitled to his own private code. Charlie

Osborne, who, as poet, painter, musician, and
artist generally, assumed to know more about
the religion of beauty and the morality of
aesthetics than anyone else, looked at the newcomer
with the same expression on his face ashe
would have had if a false chord had been
played, a halting rhyme repeated, or a man
been detected hiding the ace up his sleeve.

As for Caleb himself, if that old familiar wish
about the earth opening and swallowing him up
alive could have been fulfilled for his benefit,
how gladly would he have sunk beneath the
sod, never to reappear ! He was not sufficiently
enlightened in the ethics of society to understand
the full extent of his personal enormities,
but he understood enough to make him miserable,
and to make him wish that he had died
before he had come. His distress was so apparent,
his awkwardness so pitiful, his whole bearing
so abject and humiliated that three charitable
souls took him into the sacred precincts of their
compassion, and forgot to ridicule for the sake
of pity. One of these three was, of course, Mrs.
Stewart herself — a woman of that liberal, kindly,

but not sentimental nature sometimes found in
the arid wastes of society as might be found a
fountain and a palm-tree in the desert; the
other, Estelle, who thought how dreadful it
must be to be like that ! and the third was
Lady Elizabeth Inchbold, the fair-set mark at
which old Miles aimed the presumptuous shaft
of his paternal desires.

But then this was Lady Elizabeth's way.
Whatever there was of hurt and sorry, of low-lying,
trampled on, helpless, mishandled, Lady
Elizabeth was willing to lift up and comfort.
Could she have wiped away all tears from all
eyes at the cost of her own eternal weeping,
she would have done so ; could she have healed
all wounds by the blood of her own heart, she
would have healed them. No thought of self,
no calculation of the extent or cost of her sacrifice,
troubled the pure stream of her human
pity. That she should besmirch herself by
touching the besmirched never occurred to her
as possible. And if it had? Well! those who
give themselves up to the care of the lepers
doom themselves to the disease they live to

soothe and die in assuaging. Had the loss of
her own soul redeemed the souls of the world,
she would have carried it as her offering before
the judgment-seat, to save the humanity
she loved so well — and pitied as much as she
loved.

Estelle Clanricarde's great friend, she and
Charlie Osborne, whom Estelle loved, stood at
the opposite sides of that great triangle of life
and thought, the apex of which is truth. Where
he, bitten by the sentimental cynicism of a certain
school, despised his kind and held life buta
blotch and a blunder — more especially modern
life and all the changes wrought by steam and
science — she saw good everywhere ; and, like
those who bore for underground waters on a
sandy track, knew how to find the deeper
beauties hidden beneath superficial ugliness.
For her, unselfish, generous, glad to serve and
eager to save, were more harmonies than discords
in this great diapason of suffering and joy,
of vice and virtue ; for him, self-indulgent to
pleasure and weak to pain, unable to bear, of
irritable fibre all through, were mainly discords,

with here and there a harmony in a gorgeous
sunset or finely-worded objurgation by the high-priest
of his own restricted sect, or in Estelle
Clanricarde, when he could get her to himself
and forget his artificial pessimism in the light of
her dear eyes. Lady Elizabeth did not lose
touch of the real in the ideal. She therefore
loved mankind, and pitied as much as she loved.
Charlie Osborne refused sympathy, because of
his abhorrence for that which was mean and
low and ugly in man. Her love went to people,
his to things ; hers to facts, his to thoughts.
Between them lay the whole difference between
the two great schools of humanism and idealism
humanity and art.

It was not then out of the usual ordering of
things, but the reverse, that when her grave,
calm eyes had taken the whole circumstances
of this unhappy omadhaun, so painfully out of
place, Lady Elizabeth should go to where Mrs.
Stewart was still talking to him in her brisk,
bee-like manner, and join in the conversation as
one who had the right of previous knowledge.
She had that way. Her manner was that of

one who had already established a claim of sympathy,
and counted the points of contact. She
never stood on the defensive, as even well-bred
people are wont to do with strangers, but assumed
from the first that touch of nature which
makes the whole world kin.

By Jove ! that sister of mine is stark, staring
mad. Look at her talking to that Polichinelle,'
said Lord Eustace, not below his breath, to
Estelle, to whom he was paying exaggerated
court, to take a rise out of Charlie Osborne — for
mischief, not malice.

1 On the contrary, I think she is very sweet to
be so kind to such an object. But then she
always is so kind !' returned Estelle, glad to be
able to contradict her adhesive companion, whom
she could not shake off and wished anywhere
but where he was.

She knew Charlie's sensitive jealousy and
faculty for self-tormenting ; and she had no wish
to vex him for Lord Eustace's pleasure. She was
far too gentle and sweet-nurtured to wish to vex
him for her own — just to see the power she had
over him — as is the way with certain of her sex.

Are you, too, one of the new sort V asked
Lord Eustace, contemptuously. 'I thank my
good stars I am out of it. All this playing at
democracy seems to me not only the worst form
but the vilest rot afloat. It is rank atheism to
pretend that we have no distinction of classes,
and that gentlemen and boors are own brothers.
And only cads are atheists.'

All the same, I think Lady Elizabeth is very
sweet to go and talk to that dreadful creature,'
said Estelle, with her pretty doggedness.

And then — her mother's back being conveniently
turned at the moment — she looked round
to Charlie Osborne, and sent him a telegraphic
message with her eyes which allayed some of
the fever burning in his veins. After all, Lord
Eustace had but the appearance, the simulacrum
of things, and he himself held the reality. But
to the sensuous artistic temperament, * founded
on ultimates,' as this generally is — unlike the
dreamy poetic — mental knowledge does not
satisfy like personal holding ; and Lord Eustace
was none the less detestable in his usurpation
because Estelle was adorable in her faithfulness.

Meanwhile, Lady Elizabeth took it in hand to
make poor Caleb's present torture a little less
unendurable. She found him. hard work. There
was not a solecism that he did not commit, nota
gaucherie that he left untouched. He called
her * Miss,' to start with, and when Mrs. Stewart
gave her her title formally, he made ' Lady
Elizabeth' flank every sentence, now before,
now behind, and sometimes fore and aft together.

When Mrs. Stewart said :

1 1 don't think you know many people here,
Mr. Stagg?' poor Caleb blushed like a peony
and looked like a fool.

'No, Mrs. Stewart, not to speak to,' he
answered.

Then, when she presented him to Lady
Elizabeth, he forgot his hat and shook hands
instead. When, pointing to the garden-seat
near to where they were standing, Lady Elizabeth
said : ■ Shall we sit down V he planted himself
at once on the edge in the shade, and let
her sit in the sun with the light in her eyes.
When he saw his mistake he was too awkward
to get up and rectify it, though he would have

let her walk over his body and use his fine new
clothes for a door-mat had she had the mind.
And when she, with that wonderful insight
which belonged to her, divining the cause of
his apparent discourtesy and knowing that the
little sacrifice would be his pleasure, said,
quietly : * I am sure your eyes are stronger than
mine, Mr. Stagg; would you mind changing
places with me ? ' he very nearly tumbled
head foremost into her lap in his eagerness to
obey her, and, for her benefit, wiped with his
handkerchief the place where he had been
sitting.

But by slow degrees he ceased to twirl his
hat between his knees ; his heart left off beating
in those painful gasps which are more like sobs
than beats ; those invisible needles ceased to
prick him as they had been pricking him ever
since he drove up to the gates ; he got to feel
that he knew this Lady Elizabeth, this daughter
of the earl, quite well, though not intimately
as one would know one's guardian-angel say,
something to revere but not to be afraid of;
while over all his being stole a divine sense of

calm as with a lost wanderer when he sees the
welcome light of a human home.

After probing and ploughing this barren tract
and that arid acre, Lady Elizabeth at last fell
on Caleb's own particular subject — flowers and
birds and natural history generally. It needed
patience and good engineering to draw from
the poor omadhaun the fact that he knew anything
at all ; but the ' Delight ' — as her father
sometimes called her — who had him in hand,
was both patient and a good conversational
engineer; and though her shy and awkward
naturalist never ventured on a positive assertion,
but said what he had to say with a modest * I
think,' as the grating behind which his knowledge
took refuge — even to ' thinking ' that
field-mice eat honey bees, and that the sun-dew
entraps flies — she got a great deal out of him
that was pleasant and new, and that made her
uphill grind a little less arduous.

Also, it somewhat tightened the slack cords
of his own self-esteem to find that he could
interest her by what he said. How glad he was
that she cared for nature and things ! He was

indemnified now for all the ridicule and coarse
opposition his student's tastes had had to face
and bear at home. This divine creature, who
reminded him of some Greek goddess, met him
on his own ground and asked him for information.
It was an honour which seemed to crown
his head with a fillet of gold when she said that
she would like him to show her in his microscope
things she had not yet seen, and teach her
more than she already knew. It was the noble
touch of womanly dependence which rouses ina
man's soul all that he has of heroism and devotion.
Younger than himself, but how immeasurably
superior, this beautiful girl-woman
seemed to draw his whole being into hers, as
the lake receives the rill, as the formless mist
over the morass is absorbed into the infinite
heaven. Had he been a Greek, she would have
represented to him the chaste splendour of that
goddess who kissed the sleeping boy on Mount
Latinos ; had he been a Roman, she would have
been the renewal of Numb's sacred counsellor ;
as a Roman Catholic he would have seen in her
the holy likeness of the Blessed Virgin ; as a

Hindu, she would have been Lachshmi, the
female energy of Vishnu. She was, in any
case, semi-divine, and he was glad now that he
had braved the torment of this ordeal, seeing
what great gift of grace and joy it had brought
him. His pug-dog face beamed like one who
has met an angel by the way ; and something
deeper than its ordinary flat and level sentiments
seemed to have come into it. But this
delightful state of things could not last very
long. Lady Elizabeth was too valuable a member
of the small society on the lawn to be
allowed to give herself to one only — especially
such a one as Caleb Stagg.

Estelle was the one who came to disturb an
interview which was beginning to really interest
Lady Elizabeth, and to set the butterfly
stirring within the chrysalis with Caleb. She
was bored by Lord Eustace, and, under the
strict patrol of her mother's watchful eyes, she
could not get so much as a whispered word
with Charlie — scarcely a fleeting look. He at
last, in a fit of jealous rage and despair, had
gone to the hammock that swung untenanted

between the two evergreen oaks. Estelle thought
that, if she were sheltered and shielded by Lady
Elizabeth, she might perhaps snatch a perilous
five minutes of joy, soothe her lover's perturbed
spirit, and drink another draught of that sweet
poison without which young life is but a desert
and young hearts as dry as potsherds. Accordingly,
she came strolling up to where this
strangely-mated pair were sitting on the garden-seat
backed by azaleas and rhododendrons, and
in a pretty, beseeching way asked her friend to
come with her for a little walk — and that walk
would be to the two evergreen oaks between
which the hammock was swinging, with Charlie
Osborne eating out his heart. The winding of
the paths and the friendly intervention of flowering
shrubs would hide them from Mrs. Clanri-
carde; and all would be well and without
danger.

As Lady Elizabeth had it also at heart as a
duty to help poor Estelle when she could, and
as she did not think that a new interest should
overset an old one, she said : ' Yes, I will go with
you, dear — ' as Estelle knew she would.

Then, turning to Caleb, she asked :

Shall I introduce you to anyone before I go V

Thank you, Lady Elizabeth, I don't think I

care to know anyone else, thank you, Lady

Elizabeth,' said Caleb, with a blush that made

his ears as red as fleshy flames.

But you will be dull, knowing no one,' said
the daughter of the Earl of Kingshouse, with as
much kindly consideration and courtesy as if
her brother's Polichinelle had been the son of a
king.

I think not, Lady Elizabeth,' was his stammered
reply.

She could not say : ' Will you come with us V
That would not have been fair to Estelle ; but
she wished she could have carried him with her,
as she would have rescued some bird from boys,
some monkey from a brutal showman.

'I'll just keep to myself now that you are
going, Lady Elizabeth,' said Caleb after a pause,
between the Scylla of not liking to make an independent
observation and the Charybdis of not
wishing this beautiful woman to trouble herself
on his account.

VOL. I. E

I am sorry to take Lady Elizabeth away,'
said Estelle very kindly.

Had it been anyone but Charlie Osborne she
would have kept the poor fellow in his present
safety, and have thrown over all the rest.

1 Oh ! don't vex yourself, miss,' Caleb answered
with another torrent of blushes. * I
couldn't expect that ladies like Lady Elizabeth
and yourself, miss, would stay with such as me,'
he added, with the deep humility of his kind.

I am so sorry ; but, oh ! come, dear !' whispered
Estelle, the selfishness of love sweeping
away her philanthropy ; and Lady Elizabeth
turned away with a smile to poor Caleb that left
on his bewildered soul the impression of moonlight
on the water, of soft moss, of cool green
forest glades, of a rare wild-flower found on the
edge of a sheltered pool, of all that there is of
soothing and entrancing in nature. And, while
the two friends strolled away to carry comfort
and bring joy to poor irritated Charlie Osborne,
Caleb slunk into the shrubbery that sloped
sharply downwards to the river.

If he could have left the vicarage at this

moment he would ; but he was bound. He had
not arrived punctually, and that had been a
grievous thing to him. The card of invitation
had said ' four to seven,' and he had not been
there till half-past four. He had ordered the
trap to return punctually on the stroke of seven,
and it never occurred to him that he could leave
before it came. He had then two long mortal
hours to fill up, and how was he to fill them ?
The best thing he knew was to keep out of sight
of everyone ; so he slunk into the shrubbery, and
for the first time in these late enthusiastic years
of study he forgot to look for creatures.

All nature seemed transformed, and he knew
nothing of what he saw, or, rather, he saw nothing
as it was about him. He felt as if in some strange
place full of mild glory and an all-pervading
but indefinite light. Was this the unconscious
effect of the laburnums under which he was
walking, knowing nothing of the fountains of
gold falling all around and above him 1 He was
companion by beings of whose presence he
was conscious but whose forms he could not
see. Voices spoke to his inner heart sweeter

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
,Lain ois UBRARi

than the songs of thrush and linnet, as suggestive
and as wordless ; and the earth beneath his
feet was no more solid than so much iridescent
cloud. A strange sense of inward prayer possessed
him, and he seemed to have come into
another phase and region of life altogether — he
seemed to have come to some new but un catalogued
knowledge. He sat down on the mossy
bank, far from the path, and looked fixedly
before him — not to observe, not to think, but to
be wafted unresisting on this divine air, to
float steered down this exquisite stream.
Tears, of which he was not conscious, slowly
gathered in his wide-opened eyes and fell on
his red silk tie. He was trembling with that
kind of rapturous tremor which overpowers us
in the presence of some sublime beauty of
nature. The poor omadhaun ! the poor Polichinelle
! Who would have credited hit with those
birth-pangs of a new soul — he, in his glossy
hat and tailors triumphs of coat and trousers,
his fawn-coloured gloves, and flashing horseshoe
diamond pin ! The satyr which enclosed
the god, the temple, the gift of man to maid,

of mother to child, was the archetype of poor
Caleb's soul, imprisoned in such a body and
overlaid by such conditions as nature and fortune
had made for him.

CHAPTER IV.

THE GOLD THAT GLITTERS.

The matrimonial market at Kingshouse was
really too heartbreaking ! So Mrs. Clanricarde
thought, in the incessant way of one who has a
perennial grievance, though she had enough
self-control not to think aloud. Here in Estelle
was the winning number, and no prize to take !
It was as though a thoroughbred, trained for
the Oaks, had only costermongers' donkeys to
contend against, and a bunch of turnip-tops
when the post was passed. It was indeed
heartbreaking — with those family funds always
decreasing, and good guineas going after bad
like so many 'moutons de Panurge.' Lord
Eustace was as purely a detrimental as Charlie
Osborne himself, and from the same cause. He

wanted money with his wife to float him off the
financial shallows where at present he and all
his house were stranded. He could not afford
to many for mere love and beauty ; no man can
now-a-days who has not a good fortune firmly
secured. Certainly no one in Kingshouse could ;
unless he were prepared to bring up a family on
stir about and to dress them in blue house-flannel
and workhouse sheeting.

Caleb Stagg was the only monied man available
; and even Mrs. Clanricarde shrank from a
creature who wore tailor's triumphs at an informal
tennis-party, and flaunted a flaring red tie
with a flashing diamond pin. Still, he was rich
beyond those dreams of avarice we all have
heard of ; and on the principle of the living dog
and the dead lion, a golden calf is better thana
leaden phoenix, and those who want butter to
their bread must not be very nice as to the
shape of the knife wherewith it is spread.
Besides, no plastic substance is utterly hopeless
to reform ; and, if Caleb Stagg had a mind at all,
and his proper complement of limbs and senses,
surely an astute mother-in-law could pull him

into shape ! Even all princes are not personable
men ; and other poets than Pope have been outside
the pale of manly beauty.

Stirred then by all these reasons, more or less
deliberately recognized, Mrs. Clanricarde went
to Mrs. Stewart, and in her pretty French way,
which beat all the English manner out of the
field, asked what had become of Mr. Stagg?
Poor young man ! — it must be very triste for
him, here among so many strangers ! and should
they find him and console him ?

He is somewhere about,' said Mrs. Stewart,
looking vaguely round. Truth to say, she had
forgotten him. Like many kind-hearted, brisk,
and energetic women, she was apt to be sporadic
in her interests and a little unordered in
her ways.

'Let us go and find him,' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
looking behind a rose-bush as if he
might be hiding in its shadow.

But they soughfin vain. Deep down in the
shrubbery, off the path and on the border of the
river, the poor oraadhaun sat cradling his newborn
soul, and the things of time and space were

to him as nought. Mrs. Stewart went the length
of even a shrill little call, to which was no response
; and the search was perforce abandoned.
Meanwhile, Estelle and Charlie Osborne made
the most of their chance, and Mrs. Clanricarde
lost on all sides at once.

The hours of pleasure passed and that of
departure came on. That automatic memory
of time, which seems to belong to the body
rather than the mind, made Caleb know that he
must rouse himself from his mental ecstacy and
physical stupor, and go through the ordeal of
saying good-day to Mr. and Mrs. Stewart. He
came to himself and unlocked his eyes from
their gaze on vacancy ; his face relaxed from its
fixed immobility, and with the release of the
muscles he found it wet ; and yet it had not
been raining — his clothes were dry. He took
his bright blue silk handkerchief from his
pocket and wiped it vigorously — wiped it so
that it glowed and shone, while the two thick
ears stood out again like flames within a transparent
cover, set against his sandy hair. He
stared about him as a man does when suddenly

awakened ; and for a moment was dazed as to
his whereabouts and how he got there. Then
he pulled himself together, as the phrase is,
and went up the steep path — his ordinarily
slouching stride a little clipped because of his
aching feet imprisoned in their tight new boots.
As he came on to the lawn the whole party was
assembled together. No one had yet gone. It
seemed to Caleb as if all England was there.
His round eyes took in no one precisely, no one
personally. He only saw a sea of bonnets and
cricket caps, of coloured frocks and white
flannels, of women's faces and men's moustaches.
Then he caught sight of two large lustrous
grey eyes, and all the rest vanished like a
phantasmagoria. Only those glorious eyes remained,
as his home, his lode-star, his anchorage,
in this bewildering sea of unfamiliar
humanity.

Nothing of all this was shown. The face of
a man is not as a sheet of glass through which
can be read his thoughts and feelings. All that
the assembled company saw was a round, flat,
red-faced young man in an absurd get-up,

staring at Lady Elizabeth Inchbold with all his
might, and standing stock-still, as if struck to
stone.

Lady Elizabeth herself broke the spell by
saying, with marked kindness, to this mute stargazer
whom she knew the rest were mutely
ridiculing :

1 Have you seen that beautiful avenue of
laburnums, Mr. Stagg? You were in the
shrubbery, I think ? Did you see them V

Caleb blushed, as he naturally would when
thus brought back to the things of the actual
present.

1 No, Lady Elizabeth,' he said.

Poor fellow ! As little as Jim Bludso did he
know how to lie. Even those white lies of
society, which save appearance and mask confession,
were as far from his understanding as
were the recognized shibboleths and authorized
formulas.

'It was a pity to have missed them said
Mrs. Clanricarcle, adopting Lady Elizabeth's
tone, and looking with artificial benignity on
the omadhaun, so thickly plated with gold

as to be an almost possible associate— perhaps
oven something more : — who knows?

Caleb turned his round face and rounder eyes
on the speaker with pitiable bewilderment.
It was all like some distressful dream. Why
should these people stand there looking at him?
Their eyes, multiplied to hundreds, stuck like
lances into his heart. He felt as if he had unwittingly
committed some offence, and this was
his arraignment. It was a nightmare ; but he
retained just so much of consciousness as tolet
him understand that Mrs. Clanricarde had
spoken ; and, not knowing too clearly what
she had said nor what he ought to reply, his
native courtesy came to his aid, and he answered
simply : * Thank you, Mrs. Clanricarde,'
as the only thing that presented itself.

Though he had not been formally introduced
to anyone but Lady Elizabeth Inchbold, he
knew quite well each individual of the assembly,
when he could detach his wits from their woolgathering
and force them into concrete observation.
The Sunday club of church is the great
photograph of a neighbourhood, where people

learn to know one another without speech or
contact.

6 Let me take yon,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, still
benign and humane.

1 I'm loth to trouble you, Mrs. Clanricarde,'
answered Caleb.

1 It would be a pleasure,' said Estelle's mother,
with her airy French politeness; and Caleb,
feeling as one in a mill-race dragged into the
deep waters by a force he could not resist, was
led like a calf by a wisp of straw to where
the laburnums hung like golden fountains
against the sky.

As she went, Mrs. Clanricarde commanded
Estelle to accompany her by the look her
daughter knew so well. Even she, bold player
as well as astute calculator as she was, could
scarcely show her hand so plainly as to say :
1 Come with me,' before the world. As things
were, her action might pass for that kind of
maternal kindness which sits not ungracefully
on a woman of forty when dealing with young
men under thirty, Eudemons or omadhauns.
Had she commanded Estelle openly, the colour

of the whole thing would have been different.
But Estelle herself might come of her own proper
motion. That would be a pretty reduplication
of an amiable condescension and would give no
one cause to sneer.

But Estelle remained impassive, and Charlie
Osborne got the good of her contumacy.

Through all the time of their walk, which
Mrs. Clanricarde did not hurry, the weight of
conversation rested on her alone ; she got answers
of a kind from Caleb — but they were
-emphatically of a kind. At the end she was no
nearer anything like acquaintance or sympathy
than she had been at the beginning. She had
not that subtle art, that magic of sympathy,
which made Lady Elizabeth able to strike the
rock and let the imprisoned flood roll forth.
Her action had in it no real kindliness. It was
essentially egotistic and well calculated ; and
the poor omadhaun felt the difference he could
not have defined. But he was grateful all the
same ; and he looked at the laburnums with
proper admiration, and was glad that he had
seen them. How he had gone into the shrubbery

at all, if not by this path, was a problem
to Mrs. Clanricarde. It was the entrance whence
branched out other winding ways ; but Caleb
could not answer her when she put him to the
question, save by saying, in his confused, distracted,
muddled way :

I was in the shrubbery, Mrs. Clanricarde, but
1 don't know how I got there.'

That self-praise which parents are not averse
from heaping on themselves when they go out
of their way to help their children, was rather
largely drawn on by Mrs. Clanricarde during this
walk with such a dummy as Caleb Stagg. Over
and over again she said to herself how r grateful
Estelle ought to be to her for her self-sacrifice ;
and what a good mother she was : and how
little children knew of all the trouble and pain
and annoyance they cause their parents ; and
what a thankless task it was when all is said
and done. Her self-praise went far to soothe
her rasped nerves ; for we must confess that, to
a brisk-witted, French-blooded woman, monosyllabic
answers, with the invariable guard of
the name and the blankest look of ignorance

as to the essential meaning of the remark, are
not inspiriting, and may excuse some inward
objurgations. But she went through her self-appointed
task with gallant consistency, and
got so far on the way she wanted to go as to
fix a day for Caleb to call at ' Les Saules ' —
which local orthography spelt, and local intonation
pronounced, ' Lessons.' As he had at last
entered society through the vicarage gate, there
was no impropriety in opening her own. And
she could try her hand at his re-formation. If
he proved hopeless she had but to abandon
him ; if he were practicable — Estelle had before
now taken a silver-coated pill. This of gold
would also have to be taken.

When they returned to the lawn the great
bulk of the company had gone. Lady Elizabeth
was no longer there, and Estelle and Charlie
Osborne had also disappeared. They had walked
to the gate, where the carriage would overtake
them — Estelle, resigned to brave the maternal
tempest that she knew would follow on her act
of disobedience and temerity, if only she could
comfort and make happy her handsome lover
meanwhile.

Then Caleb, shaking hands with Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart and with Mrs. Clanricarde, so heartily
that the ladies nearly shrieked as their fingers
were cut by their rings, said, in his strange old-world
way, vivified from rnummydom only by
excessive embarrassment : < And thank yon, Mrs.
Stewart, for my entertainment ' — and the same
to Mrs. Clanricarde, varying only the name.
But his heart was heavy, and the world seemed
empty, and he felt that he had been worse thana
boor and less polite than a coalheaver in that
he had not been able to say the same to Lady
Elizabeth, to whom he owed so much more than
to anyone else.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER V.

THE MOUSE AND THE LION.

The big estates of landed proprietors, where
neither coal nor iron has been found, where no
new towns have sprung rip, and the semi-detached
villas dear to the jerry-builder are as
yet unknown, do not represent their former income
nor consideration. Farms are no longer
fortunes, and fields do little more than pay for
themselves ; but families increase, debts bear
interest, the younger children's portions have
to be paid, and mortgages and rent-charges eat
np more than half the revenue coming from
landed property. Gold, too, is cheaper than it
was, and the buying value of a sovereign lessens
yearly. So that all conspires together against
the monied position of the ancient landowner,

while commerce, trade and speculation fill the
purses of new men almost to bursting.

The Earl of Kingshouse was an example of
the ruthlessness of the times. There was no
possible blame to be found with him and his.
They had lived the ordinary lives of ordinary
gallant gentlemen, enjoying the sunshine while
it lasted, and believing in its everlasting continuance
by direct providential ordering for
their benefit. They had not been spendthrifts
of an extravagant kind, and they had not been
monstrously vicious. Neither had they come to
the front as great generals nor as noted statesmen,
though they had been for generations
officers in the Army and Navy ; nor had they
ended as Government officials of high rank after
beginning as attaches of very problematic value.
Still, the family wealth had slowly decreased
both in actual bulk and relative proportions,
till, as has been said, the present earl had been
forced to let the castle for what rental it would
fetch, and live in the Dower House with as
much economy as he could command and more
modesty than he enjoyed.

It was, however, his only hope; but even
with this things did not mend, and the red lion
couchant, which was their proud family crest,,
was daily more sharply pinched within that
galling net of debt and difficulty drawing ever
tighter and tighter round it. What was to be
done ? How from that proverbial stone get the
desired blood ? All the wood that was available
had been already cut down, and many an outlying
corner had been docked off the estate.
There were more that might follow, Lord Royne
consenting; and there was one bit that must
follow.

It went sorely against the grain, and the
pride of the aristocrat resented the necessity.
But it was a necessity ; and when this is to the
fore, where, I pray you, is the counteracting
law — the controlling force? The Kingshouse
estate must be still further clipped ; and if the
foul fiend himself held the shears he must be
dealt with as a gentleman and courteously entreated.
The estate went up as far as the
garden-wall of Redhill ; and that bit was just
what would suit the ex-miner to buy. It was

grief and pain to traffic the land, which represented
his dignity, for the gold of a man whom,
in former days, my lord would not have taken
into his service as a groom, nor admitted his son
into his house as a shoeblack. But those debts
were pressing ; money was absolutely necessary,
yet as difficult to find as if buried in a pot
beneath the rainbow ; the Jews were sharks of
a more formidable land than Miles Stagg would
be ; and that bit of poor land would fetch a
good price if the hirsute millionaire, on whose
garden-wall it abutted, should desire to have it,
and so throw out another runner into the rich
soil of landed proprietorship. It was like a
braid of living snakes. Each strand was intertwined
with the others, and the whole had to
be accepted — heads and tails and stings included.


My lord was no Christian Democrat after the
pattern of his daughter. On the contrary, he
looked on states and principalities as of divine
ordination, and held the tampered therewith as
rebels against the express decree of the Almighty
— rebels with whom the policeman's

truncheon was the only valid argument and a
felon's prison-cell the righteous remedy. In
this sweeping condemnation, however, he did
not include that daughter — his Delight, as it
has been said he used to call her. Like many
other loving, and therefore illogical, people,
love made a private line of its own and allowed
a new principle to appear when it touched himself.
Had it been Molly, the dairymaid, for
instance, or Mrs. Clanricarde, or even Mrs.
Stewart — though, as the wife of a clergyman,
she was officially free of certain philanthropic
fads caviare to the million — who had maintained
the essential superiority of the human being
over the conventional claims of aristocratic
gentlefolk — he would have consigned any one
of them to the eternal perdition for which she
had qualified herself. But Lady Elizabeth was
different. The inexhaustible fountain of mercy
would grant forgiveness for a mistake which, in
the boundless expanse of divine knowledge,
would figure as a virtue — a little awry, and
with a kink somewhere in the golden thread ;
but always a virtue, and to be rewarded as one.

Lord Eustace had told his father of Lady
Elizabeth's damaging condescension at the
tennis-party ; and he had himself, with his own
aristocratic and august eyes, seen her shake
hands with the omadhaun at the church-door
on the Sunday following. He had seen and
wondered, but he had not interfered — partly
because of that bit of land which had been
weighing on his mind for some time past —
partly because he thought that if it was her
good pleasure to find any merit in that 
young man called Caleb Stagg
to my lord his very name was enough — if, in
the plenitude of her seraphic sweetness, she
thought her grace and condescension would in
any way, or to the smallest degree, redeem him
from the gross burden of his inheritance — well,
that was just her goodness warping her intellect.
The earl, her father, did not share her
belief and had no part in her choice. Sly is
always Sly, and the sty does not breed lions.
Nor is it politically desirable to aim at such
social or personal transmutation. Morally and
religiously, of course, it was all right ; but then

he was not so moral, nor so religious either, ina
transcendental way, as she. Men never are
so good as women ; and she was better than
most women, if he was no worse than the average
man. All this gentle playing at providence
and philanthropy pleased her, his Delight, who
took the shine out of them all ; and, if no one
profited, it did no one any harm. Wherefore
he merely raised his eyebrows when he saw his
daughter's act of condescension before the whole
congregation, and said not a word to bring a
shade of sorrow on that pure, sweet, holy face,
which was to him the dearest thing in life.

Besides, again, my lord had the true English
gentleman's feeling with respect to the action
of his own women. He gave them their head
up to a certain point ; on the one hand, because
they were of his own order, whose status touched
his, and who were therefore entitled to respect
as their birthright ; on the other, for contempt
as to what they might do. The two
motives had their common source in pride ;
which is not wholly bad. When tenderness is
superadded, as with my lord for his daughter,

the thing takes another complexion, and what
was the lofty toleration of contempt becomes
the free gift of love, recognizing equal moral
rights.

All the same, the ex-miner and his family were
of a different flesh and blood from the flesh and
blood of those born in the purple, in my lord's
estimate of human value ; and his dear Delight's
undoubted virtue had as undoubtedly a queer
twist in it somewhere.

It was a proud day for Miles Stagg when my
lord's agent wrote to him, offering him that
parcel of land known as the Redhill Braes for
such and such a sum, w T which, truth to say, was
about three times its market value. One-third
had been added because of that abutment of
the garden wall ; the other because it was the
Earl of Kingshouse who opened negotiations at
second-hand with Miles Stagg, the ex-miner;
the third was the solid base-line of which these
other two made the sides of the triangle.

Without a trace of snobbishness in his roughhewn
character, Miles could not be indifferent
to such topsy-turveydom of condition as was

implied in this offer. It was simply human
nature that he should be proud of the consciousness
that he, only a few years ago a mere day-labourer,
earning his twenty to thirty shillings
a-week, should now be able to help my lord,
who was like a little God Almighty among them
all.

1 Proud ! ay, that was he surely,' as he said
to Nancy, who was partly dazed and partly
frightened by the event.

And yet he felt sorry — almost ashamed — that
the great and powerful should be so humbled
and brought so far low. He would rather have
negotiated for Lady Elizabeth's hand on the
more equal terms of money for rank, and as
good a lad as ever stepped for a likely lady's
husband and the father of her ladyship's bairns.
That would have been a fair exchange and no
robbery, he said ; but this offer of a parcel of
poor land for three times its market value was
such a confession of need ! It made him downright
sorry for the grand old family ; and he was
no wise minded to sniff at the evident extortion,
nor would he haggle over the price. He would

pay my lord what he asked ; and much good
might the brass do him — not said ironically, butin
serious earnest.

For Miles had none of that sour enviousness
which rejoices in the discomfiture of others,
after having bitten its nails in futile hatred of
their success ; none of that travestied democratic
feeling which likes to see the downfall of
former greatness, and would, if it could, reduce
all things to one dead level of worse than
mediocrity. Neither was he afflicted with that
baser kind of the social trading spirit which
takes advantage of need. It never occurred to
him to make this business transaction a basis
for further operations, and to add, as a stipulation
on the back of his cheques, the social
recognition of the man he was serving. He
was too honest for that, and too proud in his
own way. He left that kind of thing to the
society worms who wriggle up the ladder of
drawing-rooms by all the means they can command,
and are not particular as to what those
means may be.

He, Miles, wanted nought with society for

himself, though he was main glad that Caleb
should have his whack. He wanted, truly, to
see his lad wedded to a lass with a grand name,
so that he should thus be able to found a family,
as such wealth as theirs should do. He wanted
Lady Elizabeth as his daughter-in-law ; but he
was not going to put this on the back of the
cheque. Things must come as they would, and
Caleb must strike his own seam in his own ways,
knowing as how his daddy was at his back to
second his carrack. At all events, he was not
going to trouble my lord now that he was a bit
in his power, and he would leave that question
of the marriage settlements till the young folk
were better acquainted.

Hence, the bargain was concluded between
the horny-handed Croesus and the empty-handed
aristocrat on the strictest business footing ; and
my lord never knew how much he owed to the
generosity of the man he generally designated
-as ' that brute ' when he spoke of him at all.
It was the old fable of the mouse and the lion,
when the insignificant little animal gnaws the
cords by which the king of beasts is bound, and

sets him once more free to pace the desert and
devour the weaker creatures. My lord paid
part of his more pressing debts with the examiner's
money; and the ex-miner wondered what
on earth he was to do with the land now that
he had it, and what good would be the Braes to
him when they were of none to his lordship ?

They'll do to remind thee, Miles, that a fool
and his money's soon parted,' said Jim Fisher,
stroking his long chin.

And Miles answered, with a voice like a fog-horn
:

Ay, man, that will they !' laughing as if the
loss of so many thousands stood as a huge
financial joke.

The worst bit of land round all the countryside,'
continued Jim, always in his quality of
Janus — Mentor on the one side and Thersites on
the other.

That's about it, Jim,' returned his former
gang-mate and present patron.

4 Them thistles and ragwort fairly bet my garden,'
continued Jim. ' It takes a man's time to-keep
down t' weeds as flies over the wall.'

We'll stub 'em up, Jim,' said Miles, roughly
cheery. ' Thought got to be glad, man, as I've
bought the land. Thy gardener be all the
cleaner now that I've my right to the ploughing
on't.'

Ploughing !' repeated Jim disdainfully ; ' as
if mary a plough as was ever forged would go in
among them stones ! I think thought losing thy
eyesight, Miles. Why, t' land is fell-land, top
and bottom ; and, unless ye can stuff pillows with
thistle-seed, I don't see what ye'll make of it, nor
where the wally of it lies, no-how.'

We'll see !' said Miles, laughing amain and
slapping his pockets as he was wont when
pleased. ' If I don't find a wally for the land,
tell me my name's not Miles Stagg, and call me
Jack Robinson instead.'

Jack-pudding, Jack-fool, Jack-ass ! That's
what I'll call thee,' grumbled Jim, walking back
to his turnips as stiff as a soldier on parade and
as sour as an unripe lemon.

But if the purchase of this parcel of land —
this part of the great earl's estate, with its rich
crop of ragwort and thistles — did not add much

to Miles Stagg's essential position as a landed
proprietor, still less advance by even a hair's-breadth
that darling dream of aristocratic
alliance which he caressed, as Bottom might
have caressed Titania — it touched Caleb's position
in the society of the place, and materially
improved his questionable holding. It was one
thing for this rough and hirsute Sly, this examiner
Stagg, to have bought Redhill ; to have
built a hideous new house on the site of the old
dark, tumble-down, inconvenient Elizabethan
gem ; to have set up * glass ' by the acre, and tolet
surly old Jim Fisher neglect all their potentialities
when he had done so — and another
thing to buy the Braes direct from my lord himself.


The former owner of Eedhill had been an absentee
— holding a coffee-plantation in Jamaica
which he could neither leave nor sell, though it
did not pay its working expenses — and the house
had been let to anyone who would take it : now,
to a shady captain, who, as they said in those
parts, ' shot the moon ' one night when the place
had become too hot for him : and now to a

farmer who had turned the banqueting-hall into
a granary. Thus the neighbourhood had felt no
twinge of resentful sympathy for dispossession of
an honoured holder when Miles Stagg bought
the place, nor disapprobation of the new man's
land-grabbing. Nor had it felt personally or,
locally enriched by the miner's gold, which had
flowed over the seas and had done no good to
anyone at home. When it came to the opening
of a direct conduit — when my lord lowered his
crest so far as to condescend to sell part of the
great Kingshouse estate to the former miner,
and had got three times its market value for the
parcel — then the neighbourhood pricked up its
ears and rubbed its dry hands together, and
wondered if perchance any drops of this beautiful
golden ointment would ever moisten this
and that and the other of those curved and
hungry palms?

And thinking this, and feeling that this transaction
brought these awful Stages within the
possibilities of human recognition and direct
contact, it bestowed some amount of social consideration
on Caleb ; and doors opened wider

than they would have done had not the Braes
been covered with that fertile coal-dust which
Fortune's alchemy had turned to gold.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VI.

STAR OR MOONLIGHT.

The Earl of Kingshouse was devoted to astronomy;
his wife to embroidery. Between
these two absorptions lay a wide tract of domestic
freedom by which Lady Elizabeth
profited — no one interfering. Her father, whose
favourite pursuit caused him to turn night into
day, was asleep when he should have been
awake. Her mother, who had grown indolent
in her comparative poverty and seclusion, asked
only to be let alone, wrestling with the difficulty
of shades and stitches, and mourning
in completion the annihilation of endeavour.
Hence, Lady Elizabeth lived her own life
emphatically, and carried out to the utmost of
which she was capable the philanthropic doctrines

which, in * Parson Lot's ' time, would
have gone under the name of Christian Socialism.
She had her own little suite of rooms in
the Dower House, as she had had in the castle.
Bed-room, dressing-room and boudoir, all gave
off the first landing; and her isolation was as
complete as her liberty. She received whom
she would and did as she would ; and the only
one who ever dreamed of objecting was her
brother Eustace — and he found no audience.
His father pooh-poohed him in favour of his
Delight, and his mother followed suit in favour
of her indolence. If Elizabeth really went too
far, and did what she ought not — that, proved,
would necessitate her own stricter surveillance
and more active companionship ; and for this
the effort would be too great. Of the two, she
preferred to be an ostrich rather than a fly, and
to stick her head into the sand, seeing nothing,
rather than to light on a window-pane, looking
all ways at once.

Eustace was so fidgety,' she said plaintively
to my lord; 'and he had always been jealous
of Elizabeth. 4 Why could he not let her

g2

alone ? She was not a child now to be in
leading-strings ; and really, in the dull life to
which their straitened circumstances doomed
them, it was a blessing that she could find anything
to amuse her. If she liked to have dirty
little children about her, and give them tea and
cakes in the park, there was plenty of room and
no one suffered. And if she chose to admit this
wonderful young man — this hideous young
Stagg — and to talk to him as if he were a
human being like any other, that was her affair,
and no other person's. She, my lady, supposed
the girl was not thinking of marrying him ; and
it was very amiable of her to try to make him
less odious than he was. In view of his responsibilities,
indeed, it was more than amiable
it was meritorious ; for, assuredly, the napkin
hi which this immense nugget was wrapped
left much to be desired on the score of pattern
and get-up generally

By the grace of which reasoning it came
about that Lady Elizabeth was unmolested ;
that Lord Eustace went back to his regiment
decidedly not the victor ; and that Caleb Stagg

was made free of those wide and shallow stairs
which led up to Lady Elizabeth's quaint and
artistically-furnished room.

This was one of the doors which opened for
him in some sense consequent on that sale of
Redhill Braes. Perhaps, if my lord had not
pouched those two extra values he might have
objected. As things were, being a gentleman,
he felt that a certain return was necessary. If
his Delight liked to take the burden on her
own graceful shoulders and make return in this
manner of kindness to the omadhaun, that washer
affair ; and he was proportionately grateful.
So the matter rested ; and Lord Eustace looked
on them all as a trifle mad ; and, as his parting
shot, assured his sister that not a man in all his
set would dream of marrying her, so wanting
in the pride, the self-respect, the dignity of her
order as she was.

Thus it came about that Caleb was really a
good deal at the Dower House, which at one
time he would rather have gone into a lion's
den than enter ; and that Lady Elizabeth, taking
her mother's view of his responsibilities, and

agreeing with her as to the pattern and get-up
of the napkin, did what she could to bring this
heir to millions somewhat into line with at least
the ordinary gentry of the country. If she
could make him so that he might pass muster
among them — as of the lowest rank truly, but
of a rank lifted above that of the proletariat,
washed and brushed and in his Sunday clothes
she would have done all she hoped and all
that seemed possible. And her example influenced
others.

It influenced Mrs. Clanricarde perhaps more
than any other. Where Lady Elizabeth went,
meaner folk might follow ; and Mrs. Clanricarde
followed so fast as to outrun her pioneer altogether.
Her door opened as wide as it would
go ; and not a week passed without some expression
of maternal interest on the part of the
mother of Estelle for the only son of that roughhewn
Croesus of Redhill. But it was up-hill
work. Caleb responded to her invitations with
far less zeal and much rarer acquiescence than
to those of Lady Elizabeth or Mrs. Stewart.
And when he did respond, and did render himself

according to her bidding, he was so shy
and awkward, so abashed and distressed, that
the lady felt her efforts were all in vain — like
the labours of Sisyphus or the pursuit of a flying
phantom. Still she persevered. No battle is
lost till it is won, she thought to herself. Between
her resolve to domesticate Caleb Sta gg
and his distress and evident disinclination to
submit to the process, who would win %

Tt shall not be he,' said the Frenchwoman,
setting her teeth hard when she read the young
man's refusal to the third invitation she had
sent him.

4 But if he does not want to come, poor fellow,
why ask him, mother V said Estelle, full of compassion
for the unhappy creature whom her
mother so amiably persecuted and so hospitably
distressed.

1 It is our duty,' said Mrs. Clanricarde with
admirable self-command. * As Lady Elizabeth
says, it is such a pity that the owner of such
large responsibilities should be so little fitted to
use them.'

But it makes him so unhappy,' said Estelle.

He is miserable all the time he is here. He
gives me the impression of a worm that has
been trodden on. I am sure he is far happier
with his own people than with us.'

You might be of more use to him than you
are, my dear,' said Mrs. Clanricarde. ' Young
people understand each other so much better
than they understand us older folk. If you
would take him in hand, as Lady Elizabeth
does, you would perhaps make something of a
gentleman of him.'

He seems even more miserable with me than
with you,' objected Estelle.

'That is because he sees that you shrink
from him — that you despise him,' said her
mother.

8 No ; I do not despise him, mother,' returned
Estelle, gravely; 'that would be uncharitable
and unchristian

Yes, that is just what it is,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, a little eagerly. ' It is really uncharitable,
really unchristian, Estelle, and I am very sorry
to see my daughter cherish such an unholy
temper. You know that I am not one of your

dreadful Democrats, and that I hold to the
distinction of classes and all that — but this is
different. It is not an ordinary case at all. God
has endowed these people with wonderful
means, either for good or evil ; and it is our
duty — all of us — to do what w r e can to ensure
that they shall be for good.'

'Yes; I see,' said Estelle slowly.

So that I hope, my dear, you will be kinder
to this poor desolate young man,' continued
Mrs. Clanricarde, bringing down the hammer of
principle once more on the heated iron of sympathy.
' You are doing a religious duty,
remember ; and Lady Elizabeth sets you .the
good example.'

Warmed by her mother's words, and with all
her conscience aroused, Estelle took heart of
grace for her charitable work ; and the next
time that Caleb Stagg suffered himself to be
caught she was so sweet and kind and gentle
that her trodden worm scarce knew on what
leaf he was resting, nor what bird was singing
there in the bushes overhead. As he sat by her
side while she showed him her drawings, his

pug-dog face beamed with inner glory, and his
round eyes shone with a light that went near
to redeem their insignificance. He had that
look of being, as it were, coated with bliss —
enveloped in a kind of ecstatic spiritual garment
— which for the time lifts up the human
being into a region higher than its own. He
even forgot to be ungainly ; and Self fell from
him like a mask. But this state lasted for a
moment only. Things went back to their normal
ugliness, and poor Caleb was once more
the omadhaun whose social crassitude and personal
awkwardness seemed as unlikely to be
subdued as the Alps when Hannibal marched
up their steeps. It was the fate of Sisyphus
again ; and the stone once more rolled back to
earth.

And at this moment Mrs. Clanricarde hated
the young millionaire, and would have slain him
if she could. But Estelle was not so passionately
discouraged as her mother. She had not
the same reasons.

Poor fellow !' she thought pityingly. ' What
a misfortune to be so shy and ungainly ! And

fancy his being so much afraid of me ! As if
anyone in the world need be afraid of me !'

And then she thought of Charlie Osborne —
dear, handsome, well-mannered Charlie, that
facile princeps among men, who could do everything
better than anyone else, and who was the
dearest fellow in the world — as beautiful in
heart as he was in person — and without a flaw
that she, his lover, and, in a manner, his worshipper,
could discover ! Ah, if mother would
only believe in him as he deserved to be believed
in, and allow the engagement between
them to be openly confessed — standing foursquare
on that solid ground of future success
that ground which was to Estelle as true as
the jasper foundations of the Great City wall !

But mother was inexorable on this point. It
was like asking one parched with thirst to eat
ham and anchovies, to beseech her, penniless as
she was, to allow of a prospective marriage and
present engagement between her daughter and
Charlie Osborne — burying her one available
talent in the earth, and planting her best investment
in foredoomed failure ! It was absurd to

ask it — it would be criminal madness to grant
it. And there the matter ended, and no more
need be said.

Which was but cold comfort for Estelle to
carry on her quivering little lip, when Charlie
had urged her to press his claim on Mrs. Clanri-
carde once again, as so often before — when, perhaps,
he had written a letter as sad as tears and
as warm as living blood, and had had for all
response a negative as sharp as knives and as
cold as it was sharp. Then the two poor tortured
lovers had nothing for it but to hold each
other by the hand ; look into each other's beautiful
eyes ; swear to be faithful through life and
unto death ; and separate in haste — fear of
detection mingled with doubt whether they
could meet again tomorrow, on Estelle's side
doubled with shame at her deceit. For by this
time Charlie was forbidden Les Saules altogether
; and his intercourse with Estelle was
contraband from start to finish.

And really, for a girl who had been properly
educated and sagely lectured, to have to run
like a lapwing under cover of a hedge, then

suddenly to appear in the garden sauntering up
the broad-walk as cool as a cucumber, with
eyes yet bright from unshed tears, and lips a
little redder than usual by force of being unduly
pressed — really, to have to stoop to these subterfuges
for the sake of a lover as against a
mother, is a trial to the conscience of a severe
kind.

No wonder, then, to indemnify that mother
for this unconfessed infraction of her orders the
poor girl made herself so sweet and gentle to
Caleb Stagg that he was sometimes dazed as
by a vision of glory, and sometimes made to
feel like a bruised worm trodden under foot by
a bird of paradise. Then he would plunge into
the woods and bury himself out of sight ; or
he would mount the fells and disappear over
the other side ; and often, in these latter
days, he would he down with his face turned
to the earth, and sob like a child for some
strange pain about his heart for which he
could give no name nor cause. When in these-moods,
he used to be so still that the birds flew
low about him and the bees buzzed round his

hair, losing their way among this queer and
barren heather. Hours would pass while he
was in this state, half of trance and half of
agony. He did not know his place, nor did he
take note of time ; he was only conscious of
suffering — he did not know why. It seemed to
him as if he bore on his heart all the sorrows of
the world — as if he and nature made common
cause with death, and joy was blotted out forever.
And then sometimes this mood would
pass, for nothing more intrinsic than the cry of
a lark in the sky or the sunlight shining on a
tract of grass of Parnassus or on the bronzed
spikes of the bog asphodel ; and a strange cloud
of glory would envelope him so that life was
like the heaven fulfilled of one's desire.

Changeable as an April day, he did not know
himself at times — and, if he did not, still less did
his parents. Miles was of the two the more
seriously disturbed. He thought his lad was
losing such wits as he ever had ; but Nancy said
it was just dyspepsia — which she pronounced
dishpepsy ' — and prescribed peppermint-drops
as a fine remedy. Then the mood would pass altogether,

and not a trace of this dreamy madness
would remain. Invitations would come either
from the vicarage or from the Clanricardes, from
the curate or the doctor, the retired major or
the half-pay captain ; and Caleb would go to
the gatherings with the rest and be the ' cynosure'
on more accounts than one. Or Lady
Elizabeth would write to him for information
on such and such point of natural history ; when
the door of that blue boudoir would be open to
him, and he would sit, as in the courts of the
Temple, with prayer in his heart and incense in
his hands. And when he had been with Lady
Elizabeth he was calmer, more reconciled with
himself and life, and fitter for such duties as fell
to his share. She had that power over him,
which some women possess, of soothing the
perturbed spirit, as when a cool hand rests
lightly on a fevered brow. Had it not been for
her, the poor old omadhaun would have found
things harder than they were ; though why
they should be hard at all was a puzzle to him,
for which he had no solution handy.

Every now and then he broke into verse,

which he could not make scan. Every now and
then he burst into song like the note of the
screech-owl. He was changing, manifestly ; but
as yet he was like a ship that has altered her
course but has missed stays, and is, for the
moment, emphatically nowhere. The Redhill
miner lad, whom so lately no one had known,
was now quite a personage iu the place ; and,
though he was as roughly cast and rudely
moulded as could well be, he was, all the same,
the Golden Calf to those wanderers in the desert
of impecuniosity ; and being golden, though a
calf, was gently entreated and courteously entertained.
What only son — whose father would give
three times its market value for a piece of land,
bearing mostly ragwort and thistles, and pay the
money down like a man, on the spot, neither discount
asked nor objection made — would not have
been ? No wonder that he was made much of by
the society of Kingshouse ! No wonder that he
was courted by Mrs. Clanricarde, to whom at
this moment Cimon still in the rough, Caliban,
Frankenstein's monster, Satan himself if a millionaire,
would have been welcome as a potential

son-in-law ! — and no wonder that, as a consequence,
this unwonted excitement was almost
too much for him, and, together with other
things, disturbed his mental equilibrium somewhat
gravely.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VII.

BETWEEN TWO FIRES.

Bound up with all these changes in social
standing and consideration was a corresponding
increase in Caleb's painful personal humility.
Formerly he had been simply conscious of those
more material conditions which made him unfit
for the society of the well-born and delicately-nurtured.
He never lost the sense of the barrow
between his hands ; he never felt himself more
than a superficially-educated miner, brushed
and washed and in his better clothes for Sundays
and off-days — but always the miner whose
business lay with picks and shovels, skips and
trolleys — even when he was reading Homer and
aeschylus, or following biological developments
through a microscope.

Now his self-depreciation swept a wider circle
and made a deeper groove. The more he saw
of these nobler creatures — these vessels of finer
clay — the more he despised himself body and
mind, outside and in. He had formerly seen
himself as merely a worker, perhaps a little
better than the most loutish of his kind ; but,
being a worker, therefore not on an equality
with the leisured class. Now he looked on himself
as, in truth, a kind of brute-man body and
soul, not yet emerged from the husk of animalism.
His consciousness of demerit, of personal
and intellectual boorishness, of spiritual and
aesthetic failure all through, became morbid and
diseased — a pain as sharp as knives in his flesh.
But this pain varied. Before Lady Elizabeth
he felt as any man might if the Madonna of
God had turned his eyes inward, so that he
saw the true substance of his own gross earthly
nature when compared with her divine sweetness,
her ethereal purity. Before Estelle Clan-ricardo
he was as the Beast when he stood by
the gate while Beauty passed him by, her eyes
fixed elsewhere — her heart closed against him.

h2

Estelle did not stand so far above him as Lady
Elizabeth, yet she caused him more self-humiliation
and far more bitterness of regret. With
Lady Elizabeth he was purely and simply the
inferior creature, conscious of his inferiority,
but in a sense not humiliated because equality
was impossible. With Estelle he wished that
this equality had been a fact and fought
against the fetters, forged by nature, that
bound him to such low relative conditions.
The one was the Divine — superior, unattainable,
and not to be profaned by sinful man with
even the desire of near approach ; the other
was the beautiful and gracious Human, with
whom he might have been on a level had fate
and the stars been kind. There was no essential
reason why he and she should not have stood
on the same plane. Circumstance, not substance,
separated them ; and the separation was a pang.
It was the birth-hour of his soul with the one —
of his social humanity with the other. In both
he suffered ; but the pangs of the latter were
unspeakable and unappeasable, while the joys
in the former overshadowed the pain. When

BETWEEN TWO FIRES. 101

the soul confesses its sins, is not the very confession
self-healing ? We have no shame before
God as before man. We weep more but blush
less, and the Divine Hand has balm in the hollow,
even when it smites ; but who does not
know that sting in the human ringers which yet
seem to caress?

To those who cannot read the secret writing
of the heart, and from whom all subtleties
are hidden, it might have seemed anomalous
enough that, to Lady Elizabeth, the nobler
character and more highly-placed personage,
this poor translated miner should have been sofar
more at his ease than with Estelle — younger,
slighter, less supreme in all things than was the
earl's daughter. The psychologist would have
read the * mot d'enigme.' But then psychologists
worthy of the name are about as many as
there are fingers on your hand ; while those who
read only as they see, and understand nothing
beyond, are in their millions with the grains of
sand on the sea-shore. Assuredly there was
no mind-reader in Kingshouse who could have
solved the problem had it been set him. Caleb

himself could not ; though he often wondered
why he should feel soothed and released when
with Lady Elizabeth while tongue-tied and tormented
with Estelle — abashed if she spoke to
him ; in an agony of humiliation if she passed
him by; and always with the sense of some
despite wrought him by an unfriendly fortune,
such as need not have been had the powers
which ruled men's destinies so willed.

And all this time his father added to his
anguish by his coarse congratulations whenever
he came home from one of those Kingshouse
gatherings — his ripe imagination plucking the
fruit that was not yet even in the bud, when
he urged his son to carry the earl's daughter in
terms that burnt the poor fellow's heart within
him like so much shrivelled parchment — each
word a letter of fire showing the terrible distance
between his new friends and his old home
what they were, and what he and his could
never be. Then he would consume his nights
and waste his days in fruitless despair ; and the
white-winged dove of peace flew from him over
the void as if never to return.

Meanwhile, all this mental torture was hidden
from the two who caused it. To Lady Elizabeth
poor Caleb was a well-desiring, well-deserving,
unformed but capable creature to instruct
and develop ; to Estelle he was a human
animal to whom, for compassion's sake, she was
as gentle as she would have been to a horse or a
dog, but with whom she felt no more possibility
of comradeship and infinitely less familiarity of
affection. Of a truth, it was the Beauty and
the Beast ; and the Beast was the sacrifice.

Sometimes a horrible thought crossed Estelle's
mind, but it was one so degrading to her
mother as well as to herself as to be almost
blasphemous. And yet she could not wholly
banish it. Mrs. Clanricarde, usually so intolerant
of all social solecisms, so hard to all ' sojourners,'
as she used to call those who were not up to
her own level, was so wonderfully kind to this
round-faced, sandy-haired, snub-nosed omad-
han — this Caleb Stagg, who at the best was
but a well washed miner with a smattering of
science and literature ! She asked him still
oftener and oftener to the house, and pushed

Estelle into such close companionship as to
make his visits so much torture to her, while
they broke up those secret little meetings which
up to now had kept her heart light and Charlie
Osborne's alive, and had helped to sweeten the
bitter cup they had perforce to drink. She spoke
to him with almost maternal tenderness — she,
Mrs. Clanricarde, the sharpest-tongued critic in
Kingshouse ! She dilated on his goodness, his
fine intelligence, his purity of mind, his honour,
generosity, down to his native courtesy and
good feeling. f One of nature's gentlemen,' she
used to say, levelling her keen black eyes at her
daughter with a meaning behind them that
made Estelle shiver.

What did it all portend ! Her mother's praises
pricked the poor girl like witches' needles. She
felt their invisible points and smarted under
them, but she had to keep silence. Of what
good to cry out ? and to whom could she cry ?
Lady Elizabeth's liking for the Beast sealed her
lips to her ; and Charlie had enough troubles to
bear as things were — she need not add to them
her own share.

Never bad Mrs. Clanricarde l voiced aloud
with shriller throat ' her views on the unimportance
of the man and the all-importance of the
purse in marriage. Never had her scorn for
personal love and physical beauty been hotter,
more pungent, more severe. To hear her, one
would have thought love before marriage the
doom of happiness after, and a man's beauty not
only a snare but a sin. She dwelt on the superiority
of moral graces and intellectual soundness
to all else, till Estelle's fair face grew wan
and white with secret loathing, and Caleb's
flamed with thoughts to which he dared give
neither form nor voice. He was modest to self-abasement,
but even he could not fail to see
that Mrs. Clanricarde substantially offered him
her daughter, and told him that the way was
clear and the running already made for him.
But Estelle herself ? The verdict in her averted
eyes was differently framed and spelt from that
in Mrs. Clanricarde's ; and Caleb was too sensitive
to confound compassion with affection.
He knew that he was but the Beast to her — no
more desirable than Caliban — as little lovely as

the hunchback, within whose hump, however,
are folded the wings which will one day can
him to heaven. And, as something under the
ban of Love, he bore himself with the patience,
the very dignity, indeed, of self-effacement, and
the quiet hopelessness which accepts the doom
of fate and yields to the pressure of the inevitable.


Near to Les Saules ran the prettiest lane in
the district. Deep, leafy, cool, fern-full, it
matched for beauty a water-lane in Guernsey or
one of those deep-cut Devonshire ways which
wind like ribands between the high, hedge-topped
banks and flowery meadows. It led to
the Close — a wood made by man and Nature for
Love.

Love, unspoken, estranged, content — for all
its phases this wood had special shrines and
green-arched temples where to rest and be refreshed.
It was the favourite place of meeting
for Estelle and Charlie Osborne; and to both
every fern and tree and flower was sanctified
and carried its own secret message and reminder.
It had also become a favourite hunting-ground

with Caleb Stagg, being full of precious creatures
not to be found elsewhere.

It was on one of those rare days in England
when the house must empty itself and the
world must be abroad. Carriage folks drive ;
horsemen ride ; the cycles flashes past like a
huge spider on a glancing thread ; the humbler
people walk ; the humbler still, sit about their
cottage doors and transact their household
business on the step. No one, not an invalid,
consents to remain within those stifling four
walls of home ; and the Clanricardes had been
touched by the all-pervading oestrum with the
rest.

'Come for a little walk, Estelle,' said 
to her daughter.

And Estelle, who really loved her mother,
though she feared her — and at this moment
hated her line of action — was glad to go. But
she knew by that secret ' telepathy' which
lovers have as a sixth sense — by one of those
messengers which love sends to and fro,' and
of which the earth is full — that Charlie was
waiting for her in the wood — there, behind the

old beech-tree to the right, which was their
place of meeting. Still, she was glad to go
with her mother. The undoubted cloud at
present between them pained her sorely, and
she would have given many drops of her
rose-red blood could she have cleared it
away.

Where shall we go, mother V she asked,
kissing her mother as in the days now grown
unhappily a little old.

Oh ! anywhere,' answered Mrs. Clanricarde.

To Grantor V proposed Estelle.

Grantor was a picturesque little hamlet,
about a mile from Les Saules, across the fields,
and by the river. It was a charming walk, and
one of the points of the place.

'No,' answered Mrs. Clanricarde.

'Towards the Dower House V — another pretty
leafy way.

1 No,' she replied again.

'Where, then, mother?' was Estelle's perplexed
demand.

To the Close,' said Mrs. Clanricarde.

Will it not be very stifling there to-day V

asked Estelle, with as much indifference as she-could
command.

No, it will be cool,' said her mother.

And Estelle had nothing to object. It would
be cool in the wood. Undoubtedly, from a
layman's point of view, it was the very place
for the day. But to the initiated — that word,
that gesture, that press of the finger has a very
different meaning from anything the outsider
knows ! There was nothing for it, however,
but to acquiesce ; and the two went by the
little side-walk into the leafy lane which led to
the deep-bosomed wood. But all Estelle's joy
had gone, and the cloud between her and her
mother lowered more dense than before.

They sauntered down the lane — Estelle,
bitten with an insane desire for wild flowers,
lingering greatly as she went — till they came
to the gate which opened into the paradise of
her heart. A hundred yards further on, round
the projection made by an overhanging rock,
and they would come in sight of the beech-tree
under which she knew that Charlie Osborne
was sitting. Her only hope was that, hearing

their voices, he would hide himself away intime,
and not let the very shadow of his shadow
be seen by the mother whose eyes were as
quick as her thoughts. Even the * helmet of
Hades ' itself would have been sure to have a
broken strap or a loose buckle if Mrs. Clanri-
carde had been set on discovering the wearer.

The girl's uneasiness was too great to be concealed.
Her very efforts to appear indifferent
betrayed her anxiety. The way in which she
talked — so volubly, so unlike herself — and the
sharper ring of her voice, more highly pitched
than usual and thrown out as if for other ears
than her mother's — all were eloquent enough
for Mrs. Clanricarde, who had missed her vocation
and her epoch. She should have been one
of Douche's ' souricieres '; when she would have
made her fortune, dug out of the graves of those
she had overshadowed.

suspecting, watching, she said never a word
only paid out the rope which Estellc twisted
yet tighter round her slender throat. Then they
rounded the rock, and, with one rapid look —
caught by Mrs. Clanricarde as a sportsman

shoots flying — the girl's heart gave one full
bound of relief — Charlie Osborne was not there.
But in his stead, peering on all sides — now his
nose flattened against the bark of a tree ; now
down on the ground turning over last year's
dead leaves and dry twigs ; a butterfly-net in
his hand, some creatures in his hat, a green tin
case strapped round him, in full pursuit of his
fancy, riding his hobby knees and chin together
they came upon Caleb Stagg searching for
creatures in Estelle's sacred grove where her
god was hidden. Then Mrs. Clanricarde blessed
herself for her insistance, and looked on her
decision as providential and inspired.

To Estelle it was the other way ; and, what to
her mother was the benevolent work of the
good angels, was to her the undoubted mischief-making
of the bad.

Caleb blushed dien he met them, as of
course he would ; but the mother caught on the
wing a look in his eyes, as she had caught that
in her daughter's. And it was a look that satisfied
her. She had made up her mind. Estelle
should marry the omadhaun, failing a better

provision. If anyone more eligible should
come along, then the poor omaclhaun would be
thrown over with no more remorse than we
have when we drop one peach in favour of
another better favoured to the eyes and softer
to the touch.

'A lucky chance!' she said, in her kindest
way, as she put out her hand for Caleb's, dirt-begrimed
as it was.

Instinctively he wiped his hand on his coat
before he gave it.

I'm not lit,' he said, bashfully.

The hand of an honest man is always fit — fit
for a queen,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, with royal
condescension of air and manner.

Her compliment was really regal. Her appreciation
of essential qualities was grandly
philosophic — nobly heroic.

Caleb blushed again, as painfully as before ;
and Estelle lifted her pretty chin and curled her
lips with the daintiest little line of disdain —
which he saw and writhed under, as if it had
been a barbed arrow in his breast.

1 Let us go and sit there,' said Mrs. Clanri-

carde, pointing to the seat beneath the beech-tree
on the right.

Oh, mother !' exclaimed Estelle, hurriedly.
We shall be eaten up by midges !' she added,
after a second's pause, to explain and conceal
the very pronounced opposition — the opposition
that was a prayer and a cry — in her voice.

No more there than elsewhere,' returned
Mrs. Clanricarde, smoothly, as she turned up
the trodden path to the tree. ' Come, Mr.
Stagg ; come with us, and show us your interesting
collection,' she added, sweetly, to Caleb.
I know that Estelle will be glad to see it

Do you care for creatures, Miss Clanricarde ? J
asked Caleb, awkwardly.

She is devoted to them,' put in Mrs. Clanri-
carde before Estelle could answer.

'I did not know that I was, mother,' said
Estelle, her face white, as it was wont to grow
when her mother flung her too openly at the
omadhaun's head. Besides, she knew that
Charlie Osborne was within earshot somewhere,
spying at them through the smoke coloured
glasses of jealousy.

VOL. I. I

Indeed, I should be glad if you would give
her some instruction, Mr. Stagg,' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
ignoring Estelle's disclaimer. * It is so
much better to work under the guidance of a
master — and such a good master as you would
be

She smiled benignly. The present need at
home was great. Nothing but a rich marriage,
with a margin for herself and that fatal husband
of hers, would save them. It was a pity —
surely a pity ! — that she had no better salvation
in view than Caleb Stagg; but in the storm
who cares for the beauty of the port ?

*I should be sorry to take up Mr. Stagg's
time,' said Estelle, in a clear, renunciatory voice.

It would be a pleasure, Miss Clanricarde,'
said Caleb, in a low one.

4 1 should like it,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, a little
shrilly. * We will begin our first lesson now, if
you please, Mr. Stagg,' she added, with a laugh
yet more shrill than her spoken words had been.

And Caleb, opening his case, began his roll-call
of names and characteristics of which neither
mother nor daughter understood one word, nor

from which they gained one rational idea. But
Mrs. Clanricarde thanked him with the most
enthusiastic and becoming effusiveness when he
had finished ; and, catching at the one word
which she had retained, called the sulphur-moth
a cleopatra, and thought she showed her tact
and quick study in that term. But Estelle said
little that was pleasant and nothing that was
encouraging.

It is far too difficult for me, and I hate those
long, learned names,' she said, coldly.

Charlie hated all science, too, and looked on
scientific nomenclature as a kind of spiritual
deformity — next thing to a crime. She knew
that her confession of faith, which she felt sure
was heard somehow by him, would please him.

We must have them, you see, Miss Clanri-
carde said Caleb, humbly apologizing for the
necessities of science. ' They make a kind of
general language for all nations. A Russian '
he pronounced it ' Rooshian ' — * or a Frenchman,
or an Englishman, they all know what
papilio vanessa " means, but the " peacock
butterfly" would not can far.'

i2

Still, science is horrid. Art and poetry are
the only things worth living for,' said Estelle,
in the same rather unnaturally high-pitched
voice she had had throughout.

I know nothing of cither,' said Caleb,
sadly.

You arc none the worse for that, Mr. Stagg,'
said Mrs. Clanricarde, with her ambiguous smile.
Poets and artists generally are wretchedly poor
creatures, not worth their salt. I so much prefer
honest merit and more solid acquirements.'

Mother ! as if the greatest gifts God has to
give should be spoken of so slightingly !' cried
Estelle, in hot haste and hotter anger. ' Why,
what should wo be without poetry and art —
mere earthworms, knowing nothing of the
diviner things of life — seeing nothing but ourselves,
and shut out from heaven !' This was
Charlie's latest phrase ; and Mrs. Clanricarde
knew it. ' Science is soul-destroying,' continued
Estelle, still hot and eager. * Scientific
people are atheists.'

'Not necessarily, my dear child,' said Mrs,
Clanricarde, blandly.

I think not all, Miss Clanricarde,' said Caleb,
humbly.

1 1 hate science, and all that is scientific,' said
Estelle, almost in tears ; * and nothing should
ever make me learn it.'

'Come to dinner tomorrow, Mr. Stagg,' said
Mrs. Clanricarde. ' I give you this foolish child
of mine to convert from her dreams to your
better ways.'

Mother, this is too bad !' flamed out Estelle.
6 1 will not take lessons from Mr. Stagg.'

4 Come to dinner, Mr. Stagg,' repeated Mrs.
Clanricarde; and the unhappy pendulum, swung
thus between mother and daughter, had no
excuse ready. Yet he would have liked to
refuse, only he could not see the loophole.

She will have none of me,' he said to himself
as he trudged through the wood, no longer a
place of enchantment for him. ' Her mother
will, for they are but in a poor way, and father's
means would set them bravely up ; but that
dainty blossom is not for the like of me, and she
will not, were it ever so. I feel her tremble
with disgust and shame when I touch her

hand. God help me ! but the smart is sore.'
All this time Charlie had been lying hidden
within the bracken, which grew in a miniature
forest among the underwood. He had heard
every word, and through the crossing stems
which gave one clear passage not larger than
his eye he had seen every gesture, every look.
He understood the Avhole play. She was to be
sacrificed to that cad, that ruffian, that low-lived
beast, sitting in his own especial place
beneath their holy trysting-tree. There was no
term of obloquy, however unfitting, that Charlie
did not shower on Caleb Stagg — he whose own
humility rated him low enough, as things were
he who would willingly give his life for
Estelle's good, and whose sacrifice would be as
his crowning, if it ensured her gain. But
Charlie's thought was only after the rule and
line of men's judgments on each other. The
glass through which we read hearts and motives
is indeed dark ; and few of us have enough
unselfishness or love to clear it.

CHAPTER VIII.

LOVERS VOWS.

A CHANGE had come into Estelle's sweet face.
It had lost its normal shyness for what was a
look of fear ; and something of that watching,
suspicious, hunted sharpness, which belongs to
those who have a secret to hide, had taken the
clearness out of her candid eyes. Between her
lover and her mother, she had come to moral
grief. Devoted to each, but adding to her love
for Charlie fear to hurt him and determination
to be faithful — to her love for her mother, that
piety of obedience natural to a gently-nurtured
girl — she had fallen into deceit and intrigue.
Of course the knowledge that it was 'for
Charlie ' justified a great deal, as it always does
in love ; but the fact remained the same — she

was deceiving her mother, and thereby committing
a sin which covered her soul with
spiritual shame.

For herself she could have been strong-enough
to give up this sweet, secret fault, but,
when she spoke of it to Charlie, her tears of
self-accusation, her gentle prayers to be rendered
back to the ways of truth and uprightness,
failed against the overmastering need of his
egotism — the passionate demands of his love.
He softened her moral fibre by the softness of
his own, and his tears of supplication dried hers
of remonstrance. Then things would go on as
before. The meetings, which played with
Estelle's very life, were planned and executed
with almost double zest for the break which had
seemed too likely to come. But Mrs. Clanri-
carde's suspicions were aroused. She was nota
nature-born ' souriciere ' for nothing ; and, by
the very fact that she suspected some kind of
underhand association between Estelle and that
fascinating, detrimental Charlie Osborne, she
determined to push on this matter with Caleb
Stagg, and to force her daughter into the lifelong

misery and financial redemption of a marriage
which would be eminently a gilded horror
and legalized slavery.

'She would get over it the mother argued.
Other women have had to suppress their own
feelings in favour of their family need, and
marry where they did not love, leaving behind
them the desired and adored. So must she.
No one is absolutely unique in this life, and the
rod with which souls are ruled by society is
heavy and impartial. We all have to submit —
so must Estelle. With such a father her fate
was predestined. If anyone was to blame it
was George — that luckless pilot of the financial
ship — that sieve through which money ran as
fast as the water which the Danaides were
doomed to bring ! To him were principally
owing all the difficulties of the house by which
Estelle was to be made to suffer in her person —
according to the way of women and the weaker.'

So she glozed over her conscience, and added
to her reasoning a thick layer of whitewash
for poor Caleb, whereby she got rid of a great
many of his defects, and made him out at last

to be really quite personal and presentable.
His « good heart ' stood for so much ! Shakespeare
and Burns were both quoted in his
behalf, and the skimmings of his science and
his classics stood for thick, rich, soul-sustaining
cream.

« So much better,' she used to say, * solid
knowledge of the kind Mr. Stagg possessed,
than the mere flashy, trumpery accomplishments
of painting a little, and rhyming a little, and
playing a little — such as certain ignorant young
men, too idle for hard, substantial work, made
out were the noblest things a man could do !'

When she let fly these arrows Estelle generally
put up the buckler of silence and always
edged away from the subject. She knew that
her mother wanted to be more explicit and to
have it out ' with her ; and she dreaded only
one thing more — the discovery of her secret
trysts with Charlie.

Of late, since that encounter with Caleb Stagg
in the wood, those trysts had been considerably
fewer. In some subtle way, she never could
define how nor yet could she circumvent, Mrs.

Clanricarde kept Estelle closer than ever by her
side. There was always some little domestic
duty to be done that held her indoors and prevented
her liberty. It was nothing irksome and
nothing overt ; and the requests to stay with
her and do this and that, were made with so
much sweetness — such perfect unconsciousness
that a fond daughter should find anything unpleasant
in association with so charming, so
sympathetic, so delightful a mother — that poor
Estelle's heart was torn into still more painful
bits, and she scarce knew where to turn or
what to do. Charlie eating out his heart in
the wood ; her's lacerated in the house ; her
lover's yearning and her mother's pleasant command
— poor Estelle ! And then, to crown all,
the frequent presence of the snub-nosed omad-
han and her mother's extraordinary craze in
his favour !

For himself, poor fellow, this time was a time
of torture to Caleb. He saw the whole play,
and suffered from it as such a man naturally
would. Not to gain the kingdom of heaven for
himself would he have forced Estelle's inclination

— taking her on her mother's invitation
against her own desire. And yet, would he
have been human not to have desired ? Lady
Elizabeth alone knew what he felt, and to her
alone he showed the hidden wound that was
destroying the value of his life — to her, always
his goddess, his Madonna, to worship and to
serve, to love and adore, but the hem of whose
garment was as sacred as the veil of Isis, and
not to be carried to his lips nor touched by his
hands.

In this way things were not much advanced,
nor did they seem likely to advance. Mrs.
Clanricarde offered Estelle to the rich miner as
evidently as if she had made the proposal in so
many words ; Caleb, ever more and more distraught
by the mother's patent desire, let the
sweet poison of that proffered and yet self-forbidden
presence creep nearer and nearer to his
soul. Estelle's revulsion against him grew
stronger with her mother's increased advocacy ;
Charlie Osborne's feverish despair grew greater
as the sacrilege which now all Kingshouse was
discussing seemed almost possible. These

stolen meetings were becoming rarer and more
perilous, and everything seemed slipping down
the decline. Like that village on the slopes of
Etna which is kept from sliding down into the
valley solely by the huge buttressing rock in
front, so, in Caleb's steadfast delicacy — in the
very unselfishness of his resolve, was the only
salvation of the lovers. When the day should
come, if it ever should, when passion would be
stronger than this unselfishness, then would the
sun see the last of the poor young lovers' happiness
— Charlie's death-knell and EstehVs enduring
martyrdom. Meanwhile they had still
some brief and sparsely-strewn rays of comfort
when they met in the shelter of the wood and
renewed the dear light of their love, as lovers
can, from the airy nothings of hope and the
snatched fragments of consolation.

Nothing could tempt you to such a sacrifice,
Estelle V Charlie asked, as he had asked a dozen
times before. Lovers' assurances are never
enough.

4 Nothing,' she answered, with fervour. ' I
am very sorry we are so poor — very sorry that

mother is so anxious — but I would no more
many Caleb Stagg than I would jump into the
river. I would rather jump into the river,
indeed !'

'I do not want to speak harshly of your
mother, but I must say she astonishes me !' said
Charlie, tossing back his hair. ' The only
excuse I can make for her is to suppose she is a
little off her head. The idea of her thinking of
your marrying that cad ; still less wishing it !
Good heavens ! I wonder she is not struck dead
for such a crime !' he said excitedly. ' It makes
my blood curdle, Estelle, and would, even if 1
did not love you.'

It is too dreadful to think of,' said Estelle
shuddering. * But, Charlie dear, do not distress
yourself. I would rather die than do it.'

Or come with me, which would be better
than dying,' he said, looking up into her face.

She stole her hand gently into his — her shy
little hand with the pointed fingers and rose-pink
nails like transparent shells.

A great deal,' she said softly ; and for a moment
caressed the idea as possible.

That empty purse dangling between them
both, as powerful a line of separation as was
ever Sigurd's sword, was forgotten, and only
the sweet vision of life and love together remained
as fair as Geraldine's pale face seen by
Surrey in the magic mirror — as delusive as Rose
Mary's picture in the beryl stone.

1 And you will not, Estelle V Charlie sank his
voice to the softest tones of which spoken music
is capable. 'With you by my side he continued,
' I could work as I have never worked
before, and do great things. It is all this
miserable suspense that kills me ! If I had but
you ! Ah ! Estelle, it is more than one man's
life and love that is sacrificed to these criminal
arrangements of society. It is the world's
great work ! Think ! I could do something to
make my life splendid and my name famous,
and you say you will not have it ! Estelle, will
you not brave everything and come with me ?
Would you rather see me die of this fever and
yourself the wife of Caleb Stagg V

1 Oh, Charlie, how cruel you are V was all that
Estelle could say. Tears were in her voice as

well as iii her eyes, and Charlie was in the mood
when to make the beloved suffer is some kind of
balm to one's own pains.

It seems like it,' he returned, again tossing
back his hair. ' That cad lives in your pocket.
All Kingshouse is talking of it, and your mother
is offering you to him as if you were a bunch
of flowers or a basket of fruit for sale. It is
disgusting ; it is maddening ; and you expect me
to stand it ! I wonder at myself that I do not
put a bullet through the felknv's brain. That is
what he deserves.'

But he does not make love to me, Charlie,'
said Estelle, earnestly, less moved by this advocacy
for care for the truth, or even to defend
poor Caleb himself against a false imputation,
than to give peace to her lover's tortured mind.
'He is always most distant and respectful —
almost ludicrously so. He does not make love
in any way — by word or look.'

4 And your mother offers you, as she does, to a
fellow who has not even the grace to acknowledge
the prize you are !' cried Charlie, his sails
filling on the other tack.

'That is better than presumption,' said Estelle
; ' and less disagreeable to me.'

And you can live in such an atmosphere !'
cried Charlie. ' You know what I suffer, and yet
you can support it.'

What can I do, dear V she asked, in her
sweet, gentle way. ' 1 cannot forbid my mother
to ask him to the house. It would only make
her angry and do no good ! I must trust to
myself, as I have done all along. I will never
be false to you, Charlie — never V

'You swear that?' said Charlie, holding her
hands as in a vice.

6 Yes, I swear it,' she returned.

By your hopes of salvation you will be true
to me, and me only V

I will !' she said, her cheeks pale with the
very fervour of her vow.

'No one shall ever take you from me V

No one ! no one !' she repeated.

Kiss me, Estelle, on this,' he said. ' You
have solemnly vowed yourself to me, remember !
You are mine in the sight of God and heaven,
and if you deceive me you will commit a great

VOL. I. K

and shameful crime. No man can now call you
wife without your perjury — your infidelity — too
gross to give it a name. Now I hold you mine
for ever ! for ever !'

1 You always have,' said Estelle, simply.
Ever since we were boy and girl together I
have loved you, Charlie, and you know it. I
could not love anyone else !'

Nor I you,' he answered. ' Women think
they have all the constancy, but they have not.
Men are far more constant. And it counts
more with us than with you, for we have more
temptations.'

Yes,' said Estelle, dutifully ; and her lover
caught the word on her lip and kept it therewith
his own.

Talks such as these were the very wine of 
Charlie. He drooped and flagged without
them, and felt as if all the forces of God and
nature were arrayed against him. When he
had had this spell of refreshment he was another
man. His pulses beat more slowly, his blood
was not so heated, the thronging fancies of his
brain were lighter, his thoughts were gayer,

and his life was not the wretched blunder it
seemed to be when Estelle was not its potent
centre, and only doubt held him by the hand
and loneliness spread over him her black veil.
Yes, he felt sure of her. He knew how much
she loved him. For all their lives this love had
been the main fact of feeling. It had grown
with their growth from childhood up to now,
full youth. Like the vine, which flings its
branches from tree to tree, it had bound them
in one firm, fragrant bondage. Force might
separate them, as force might sever the vine ;
but nature would only keep them more closely
tied. He had no real fear of Caleb Stagg,
though it suited his jealous exactingness to
feign it for the pleasure of assurance. He had
no fear of anyone, indeed, but himself. Should
he ever be able to keep a wife 1 Times were
bad for art ; and he had not yet got his foot
securely placed on one of all the rungs of the
great Ladder of Success. Should he ever ? — with
a heart that failed him on a climb ; with cheeks
which flushed a hectic red on small exertion ;
with that cough which so often tormented him ;

k2

that fever which so often consumed him?
Nevertheless, he loved ; and he had the lover's
unconscious and imperative selfishness. As
now, when he held Estelle to his heart at the
parting of the ways, and made her swear again
and again, by all her hopes of salvation, that
she would be true to him for time and eternity
true to him as he to her ; and that she would
never marry anyone else, so help her God ! So
might God do to her as she to him, if ever she
forsook him, her own true love !

CHAPTER IX.

IN DOUBT AND DREAD.

ALLURED by Mrs. Clanricarde ; spurred on by his
father, who, however, was in a wrong latitude
altogether ; conscious of the * res augusta ' in
the home of her he loved, and without private
means of his own to help her secretly, as else
he would ; personally loathed by Estelle, and
knowing that he was, while he himself loved her
with the mingled passion, hopelessness and
humility of an inferior for one raised above him by
origin, and placed within his power to protect by
fortune — poor Caleb's sense of general haze and
confusion rendered his life at this moment a
real tragedy — if we allow that feelings are as
tragic as events. Shaken and distraught, he

scarce knew what he ought to do ; for nothing
is harder than to hold fast by our own clear
perceptions of the inappropriate and impossible
against reasonings and enticements which go
the same way as our inclinations. No ' cross-hatching
' of the engraver is fuller of interrupted
lines and angles than the mind of one so tempted
while so convinced ; and Caleb spent his days
and nights in wondering whether ; and if ; and
could it be; and no! it never could; and he
was a fool for his pains — none bigger.

Yet often the flattering thought passed through
his brain, like a shooting-star cleaving the dark
heavens before his eyes: ' I would make her so
good a husband — I would so tenderly care for
her — so guard her from all pain and trouble — I
would worship and reverence her so deeply that
in time she would learn to care for me. And if
she could never love me as I love her, she would
at least come to peace with herself and forbearance
with me. I would love her so that she
must at least endure, and perhaps even a little
love me !'

Man ever makes the same mistake, and the

loving think that the very gift of love — its very
passion and intensity — perforce must win return.
Oh, fools and blind ! who water the barren
rock with your heart's blood, and look for the
rare red rose as your reward ! As if reluctant
love ever was bought, even by love ! — as if the
heart was not its own free gift, and gratitude
for an unshared affection but so much snow
new-fallen on the ice ! Love may burn at the
stake and die a beggar for the beloved ; it may
stand in the pillory and be pelted by the world ;
it may give its all — faith, home and fame — as
freely as our dying hero gave that cup of water
to the wounded soldier ; but by the force of its
own strength only will it gain nothing in return.
Can the sun compel the dew, save by the free
gift of the generous earth ? Does it rise at his
bidding from the shores of the Dead Sea, from
the sand of the desert, from the marble rocks of
Pentelicus? Yet the same glory pours down on
these as on the flower-full meadow — the fragrant
garden — where the dew lies thick like
living jewels — that lavish boon of beauty given
out by the earth in voluntary response. So

with love. If not spontaneous it is not to be
compelled ; and the heart sheds its blood in
vain.

And all this Caleb knew, as well as he knew
that the chrysalis must develop according to
its own laws, and that folding* it in rose-leaves
or cushioning it on satin will be of no avail, if
the hour of its butterfly birth has not come.
Yet he suffered himself to be at times deceived
by hope and desire, and the mirage which looked
as if it might be real !

His father was not one of the least of his trials
at this moment. Not only had his association
with the better-bred and more gently nurtured
shown Caleb the great gulf fixed between his
own people and them — himself and them — but
it had also told so far on his own nature as to
make him painfully sensitive to things he formerly
accepted as of the natural order of life.
His father's rude jokes and coarse good-humour
had once been as pleasant as those 
larks with the kitchen wench in the hayloft
or the stable-boys in the harness-room.
Now the one was as abhorrent as the other, and

he wondered how he could have ever enjoyed a
mental diet so coarse and brutal.

When Miles shouted to him, as he came home
after he had been with Lady Elizabeth or the
Clanricardes : * Well, lad ! how's thy wooing
going ? W hen's I to have my lady's daughter
to hand into her carriage, and her little one to
give his first silver mug to V Caleb thought,
with a shudder, of the sacrilege it would be to
see Estelle familiarly treated by such hands;
and how could he ask her to come to such a
home 1 Not all the wealth of Golconda could
gild over their essential poverty of condition,
nor make this gorgeous, flashy, brand-new hideous
house of theirs — this cross between a barrack
and a gin-palace — fit for her reception.
His father to hold her in his arms ; to kiss her ;
to pinch her cheek and dig her in the ribs ; to
crack jokes at the expense of her delicacy, her
modesty ; or, if he were so minded, to profane
her ears by words and oaths she did not know
existed : — His mother, good, weak, painful soul,
to treat her as a timid servant might treat
a gracious mistress playing at companionship : —

He himself unlovely, ungainly — when he looked
at himself in the glass, hot blushes dyed his
cheeks, and impotent despair convulsed his
heart for shame of the thing he saw — that
thing which no woman could love — that Beast
for whose salvation no Beauty would give her
redeeming kiss.

No, he could not ask her. He had nothing to
give her : no family worthy of her adoption ; no
home where she ought to abide ; no husband
who was fit to touch the tips of her slender
fingers, still less take her by the hand and call
her sweet body his! He had nothing but his
money that she could value ; his love he knew
too well she would not.

Then — his round, light eyes, a little red about
the rims, staring into vacancy, and his clumsy,
mouth half open — he would look such a pitiful
woe-begone creature that old Miles scarce
knew whether to laugh in his face for derision
or ' give him a clout on the head ' for wrath.
He managed to convey the effect of both by
the way in which he used to clap him on the
back with that heavy, shoulder-of-mutton fist of

his ; while, braying as much as shouting, he
would call out in tones that made Caleb writhe
and his mother start and quiver with sudden
fear :

'Now then, mooncalf, where be thy wits —
a wool-gathering after thy painted bugs or the
lasses 1 Sakes alive ! but thought verily the
biggest fool that ever walked on two legs since
Nebuchadnezzar went on four !'

After such an ordeal as this Caleb would rouse
himself and try to do a son's devoir and be
something of a fit companion for his fostering*
parent. But all that he did was done so faintheartedly
he only fell deeper into the mire of
his fathers disgrace, and widened the distance
between them, already wide enough as things
were. These awkward efforts at congenial festivity
of mind and manner were for the most
part cut short by a fit of swearing like to the
rolling of thunder ; when his father would either
order him out of his sight for a jackass that
was not worth a man's meat— a half-baked
potato that was not fit for a pig to eat ; or else
he himself would dash out of the room in a rage

that nothing short of a good half-bottle of
whisky could reduce into his ordinary wide-mouthed
good-humour.

That I should be plagued with such double-dyed
converts as I have !' he one day said to
Jim Fisher, after an outburst of more than
usual violence with Caleb. * There's the missis,
she's as dumb as a codfish, and as dunt as a
dead n eddy ; and, except for prayers and parsons,
hardly knows her right hand from her left, or
which leg to put foremost. She doesn't know
the value of a good gown when she's got one
on her back, and would as lief go in rags as
silks and satins. She's not to be made a lady
of, were t' angel Gabriel himself to put his
hand to it ! And that lad of hers is not a pound
better. Neither one nor t'other knows meat
from meal, and whether it's raw turrets or a
juicy pear from t' south wall, they neither take
heed or care. She's only a pit-brow lass when
all's said and done ; and, as for the lad, he's as
cracked as an old tin kettle, and fit for nought
but to be tied to a dog's tail and sent a-whuz-
sling over t' fells. He's not worth his salt, isn't

Caleb, take him how you will ; and money does
him no more good than a sackful of oats to a
dead jackass. I'm fairly bet and loitered
between the pair of them ; and that's a fact r
Jim, let who will hear me !'

1 I've always told ye, Miles, ye cannot change
the nature of man or beast,' said Jim, sententiously.


He enjoyed these occasions for taking down
his former mate and present master and making
him feel that luck was not equal to sense, and
that though he, Miles, had the purse it was himself,
Jim, who had the brains.

The missis is one of them who are frightened
at their own shadows, and cannot say bo to a
goose, weren't ever so ; and her lad is bound to
take after her,' he continued. ' And then yon
yourself, Miles, are but a bad paymaster for such
as they ; for you have a hard hand and a heavy
way with you that doesn't fit with feared folk ;
and you don't spare the rough side of your
tongue when you've a mind to give 'em a lick,
which is as often as you are anyway crossed.'

And you'd give 'em a lick too, Jim, let me

toll you, if you wore bothered with such a couple
of jennies,' retorted Miles.

I'd know my catechism better,' said Jim,
drawing down his long upper lip with puritanical
grimness. ' What's the good of wanting
pigs to fly, Miles, I ask you ? Each creature
has its own nature, and your lad and his mother
have theirs.'

Good Lord ! what do I ask of 'em !' roared
Miles in a fury. « Only that they should enjoy
themselves and take the good of what I've got
to give 'em. If I were like some, now, as
skimmed and grudged, then they might cry
out ; but I'm not of that make. I want those I
have to do with to be as well-off as myself, and
to take the good of what I have. If the missis
and the lad had a mind to eat off gold, they
should have it. And what — the devil take it ! —
I'd rather they spent like water than be what
they are, that lily-livered they can't enjoy
themselves any more than a couple of scarecrows
in a cherry-tree !'

Ah, well, you see, Miles, lad, a boy can take
a horse to the water, but ten men can't make

him drink. Your folk are not born that way.
They don't value all this here ' — Jim described
a vague circle in space — ' and they'll never use
themselves to it. That's my opinion, and I'll
maintain it.'

1 Then,' said Miles with a comprehensive
oath that took in the sight of his eyes and the
salvation of his soul, ' if they don't and won't
I'll wring their necks for them.'

Just so,' said Jim sedately. ' That's a main
brave way to make birds sing.'

On which Miles broke out into a huge Gargantuan
laugh, and made a feint to square upto
his old mate, as in the days when they were
lads together, and were always trying it on
with their fists to prove which was the better
man of the two, like two bull-calves butting at
each other in the farm-yard.

1 And thou'd be the better for a jolly good
whacking thyself, Jim !' he said, flourishing his
huge fists about his old friend's head.

I doubt if we'd be able to give it, Miles,' said
Jim in his cool, didactic way, which Miles took
as the acme of philosophic nobleness. * We've

got too fat and pursy with all your good living,
and I'm as lean as a greyhound, as you see, and
as hard as an oak plank. I doubt if we'd come
over me, if we set to !'

I'd bray thee into mincemeat !' shouted
Miles, with a peal of laughter. ' Only thought
that lean the very crows wouldn't pick thy
bones.'

And they'd get scomfished in fat before they
got at thine,' retorted Jim.

And here the horse-play ended.

But for all that easily-excited laughter and
broad good-humour, traversing his irascibility
like the shine and shade of a rough-visaged
April day, Miles Stagg stuck to his point with
the tenacity of his kind, and never ceased to
flog the dead horse of his wife's social pride and
the jibbing jade of his son's matrimonial ambition.
And the more he flogged the colder and
stiffer grew the lifeless carcase he sought to
stir. Nancy took yet firmer hold of that narrow
creed of universal forbidding which made
her idea of religion. More and more things became
sinful to her ; and her husband was the

biggest sin of all. His large appetite and love
of good cheer ; his fondness for a glass and the
flush on his broad, fat, rubicund cheeks ; his
rattling oaths and Homeric laughter ; the money
he spent on his house and garden, on his carriages
and horses, on gold chains for her and
diamond studs for Caleb ; his going to church
in his carriage like a lord on Sundays, and his
preferring church to chapel; all the pomp and
magnificence in which he revelled, and, as it
were, morally sprawled, like a cat on the warm
gravel in the sunshine — all was sinful to poor
weak-eyed, meek-spirited Nancy. And the
worst of her many secret sorrows was that she
had not courage to testify. She dared not
openly defy her conjugal master; and thus, between
him and her spiritual Lord, and the fear
of each, her life was a very torment, which
secret weeping and ungrammatical prayers did
but little to assuage. Poor Nancy ! how much
rather she would have gone back to her epicene
dress and hard manual labour at the pit-brow
than be seated here in her gorgeous drawing-room,
in that flaming red tartan satin which
VOL. I. L

Miles bad bought for ber and commanded her
to wear as sbe valued ber life and bead left unbroken
— with a heavy gold chain about ber
neck — her large, thin, flat ears weighted with
big diamonds — a brooch like a small saucer at
ber throat — and on the top of her thin, soft,
grizzled hair a cap got out of Bond Street, and
about as fit for her as a silver strap for a kicking
milch-cow. But the conjugal hand was
one not to be ignored nor yet denied ; and the
burdened soul had to make its peace between
fear and sin as it best could.

With Caleb, matters were as bad. That
spurring of the jibbing jade went on without
intermission ; and though the father always
navigated in the wrong waters, and set his sails
for Lady Elizabeth, Caleb knew that any lady
whatever of Kingshouse would be welcome;
and Estelle, in her pearly grace and beauty,
more welcome than another.

Thou shalt have it all, lad,' Miles used to
say, as his biggest bribe. ' If thought shamed
of thy own, thou shalt have it all to thyself and
my lady yonder. Grapes and peaches, furniture

and land, nags and coaches, I'll not keep
the value of a brass farthing from thee, more
nor I and thy motherly want for our old age.
A clean shirt o' Sundays, lad, and a good glass
for a friend, that's all I ask out of the many
thousands as we have. Only let me see thee
mated with the best in the land, and I'll die
content.'

But when Caleb said, as he did once : ' Give
me something of my own now, father. Out
of so much, you could well spare me a few
hundreds in my pocket;' Miles answered him
back by such a turbid stream of abuse and objurgation
that he never ventured to repeat the
experiment.

All, if you'll give me a lady for my daughter,'
he said. ' All, dost hear, jackass ! but, by
the Lord, not so much as'll buy thee a crust of
bread while thou bides here as my son in my
house ! I'll be my own ganger and captain
of my own ship as long as I'm at the head. I'll
give way to thee the day thou hast thy wife, but
not an hour sooner. So now you know.'

Which declaration greatly increased the poor

l2

omadhauu's general perplexity, when matched
with Mrs. Clanricarde's hints — as broad as cartwheels,
according to Caleb's unspoken simile —
with only his own consciousness of unworthiness
to keep him steady to his self-imposed
negation.

CHAPTER X.

THE CROSSING OF THE RUBICON.

Things financial at Les Sanies had gone from
bad to worse. Mr. Clanricarde's last investments,
made in faith, had fructified in failure. One
turn more of that Stock Exchange screw, and
the bailiffs would take possession ; and then,
where would Estelle's matrimonial market be ?
For beauty, although such a splendid jewel in
itself, wants a certain amount of material setting
to give it stability. A man with intrinsic
advantages looks for some kind of equivalent
besides that which, great as it is, can be destroyed
by an infected laundry or a runaway
horse. The value of birth, for instance, is a constant
quantity and the multiplication of riches

is potentially infinite ; but beauty is a radiant
mass subject to perpetual shrinkage — a floating-capital
slowly but surely diminishing. Hence
it needs some kind of background — something
besides itself; else would all the fair-faced
Cicely of the milking-pail and handsome
Jennies of the spinning-mill find as many King
Cophetuas as there were monied men in the
district, and no Nut-brown Maid would go without
her earl's son. And a man in possession,
with a father squeezed flat under the Stock
Exchange screw, is not exactly the best
kind of buttress to be imagined, even for such
a monument of loveliness as was Estella Clan-ricardo.


These thoughts, in other forms of words, possessed
Mrs. Clanricarde night and day. The
peril of the moment — the fear of still further
decline — the fact that no one else was at hand
all made her resolve to bring about this
hideous marriage ; whereof, however, the present
prominent obstacle was Caleb's own unconquerable
shyness. Shyness — not disinclination.
Mrs. Clanricarde was too astute not to

see the difference. The latter would, perhaps,
have daunted even her. The former was no
more to be regarded than a child's fear of the
dark, to which it was analogous. Of Estelle
herself the mother had no grave doubts. For
all her suspicions of that underground rivulet
of love still flowing between her and Charlie
she did not mistrust the weight of her own
influence when the time for using it should
have come. It was Caleb, not Estelle, that
had to be conquered — the man to be encouraged,
not the woman to be coerced — which
made the whole position more embarrassing,
and the tactics to be pursued more difficult.
But time and need pressed, and something must
be done.

Accordingly, an invitation to dinner was sent
to the heir of Redhill ; and the extra cost to
the housekeeping of a couple of chickens, with
the sacrifice of one of those rare old bottles of
port bought before the Bears of the House had
had a hand in Mr. Clanricarde's affairs, was not
grudged by the lady general of the forces. It
was the tub to the whale — the sprat to the herring

— an investment of greater probable value
than those usually made by that unlucky George
of hers.

The long summer evening was favourable to
confidential talk as well as redolent of love.
Mrs. Clanricarde left Est ell e in the drawing-room,
and proposed a little stroll in the garden
with Mr. Stagg. Like the pimpernel before a
shower— like birds and beasts before a storm —
Caleb, sensitive and double-sense, knew that a
crisis was at hand. Everything showed it.
Mrs. Clamicarde's oppressive kindness; her husband's
evidently forced attempt to follow suit ;
Estelle's unconcealed depression — the fear, the
scorn, the prayer, the loathing that passed in
changing waves of feeling over her face, whence
all pity was banished in the passion of her own
pain ; yes, they stood on the brink of the great
Rubicon, and Caleb knew that it would be
passed to-night. And how should he bear himself?
What should he do ? The girl would be
offered to him by her mother, and passionately
denied by herself; and he would have to choose
between saving her position and sacrificing her

person — or respecting her feelings and letting
her fortunes be destroyed. He did not think of
himself. His sole perplexity was — what was
best for her ?

The handsome, brisk and hard-pressed lady
shut her eyes to all that stood against her. She
would not let herself be troubled. Her future
son-in-law, when he forgot himself — and he was
so preoccupied to-day that' he forgot himself
very often — ate with his knife, then helped himself
to salt on the tip, picked his teeth with his
fingers, bit his bread without breaking it, drank
with united lips and a full mouth, tossed off
his custard like wine, and spooner his cherry
tart like so much porridge ; then, remembering
his offences, he blushed till his sandy hair looked
washed with red, and became so confused and
humiliated that he did not understand what was
said to him, nor could have answered if he had
understood.

Trifles as light as gossamer webs !' thought
Mrs. Clanricarde. * But those solid thousands
are facts.'

I cannot tell you how glad I am that we

have come to know you better,' she said, when
she had him alone and safe in the garden —
bending her vivacious black eyes with as much
maternal tenderness as she could command on
the miserable creature at her side.

« You are very kind, Mrs. Clanricarde,' said
Caleb, feeling that he must say something.

4 We all have the highest possible esteem and
affection for you,' she continued, still maternal
and tender.

'I'm not worth it,' stammered Caleb.

She took his hand with a fine impulsiveness.

Don't say that !' she cried ; and her voice
was both flattering and deprecatory. ' You are
one of the best and dearest young men I have
ever known ; a man to trust with one's greatest
treasure, and to be sure of in every relation of
life. I do not know a fault that you have — but
one.' Here Caleb opened his round eyes and
stared. Out of all the blemishes and faults of
which he felt conscious, on which was this
glozing tongue about to fasten ? * And that
is your modesty,' continued Mrs. Clanricarde.
4 You are a great deal too modest, my dear Mr.

Stagg. But let me call you Caleb — such a finch
suggestive name it is ! You do not hold yourself
in as high esteem as you should. You are
fit to marry a princess.'

Oh, Mrs. Clanricarde !' put in poor Caleb, his
modesty bleeding at every pore.

1 can read you, you see,' she continued, her
smile as soft as swansdown and her voice as
sweet as honey can make even vinegar. ' You
do not think yourself worthy of a grand lady,
do you?'

No,' said Caleb in a low voice ; ' T don't,
Mrs. Clanricarde.'

And I do,' she replied, her vivacious black
eyes again levelled full on his face.

I am not fit to be the husband of a real lady,
Mrs. Clanricarde,' returned Caleb after a pause,,
speaking with desperate steadiness. • I am
nought but a miner's son, and I was nought
but a miner myself till I was a grown lad of
seventeen. And what's bred in the bone will
out in the flesh, Mrs. Clanricarde ; and not all
father's money can make gentlefolks of us, or
fit to go shares with the quality.'

Intentionally, Caleb went back on his old
habit of speech, which was more purely provincial
than it had been of late.

• You are better than a gentleman,' said Mrs.
Clanricarde, with desperate steadiness on her
own part. * You are a good man, my dear Mr.
caleb.'

I am a fool ; that's what 1 am, Mrs. Clanri-
carde,' said Caleb.

Why do you say that V asked Estelle's mother,
doing battle for him against himself. .

I ought never to have let myself be persuaded,'
said Caleb. ' Me and mine are not fit
for gentlefolks, and I should have known that,
and stuck to the old shop, and not come out of
it.'

You dear, foolish, modest fellow !' cried Mrs.
Clanricarde. ' Why, we all love you ! You
are the delight of the place — for everyone in it
knows what a good, honest creature you are.
Look at Lady Elizabeth ! Anyone would say
she was in love with you, for the fuss she makes
with you— the affection she has for you,' she
added, correcting herself.

Lady Elizabeth is an angel, and pities me'
said Caleb. ' She knows me better than anyone,
and she is sorry for my false position.'

False ! where is the falseness ? Young, rich,
clever, good — what does it signify that your
father made his own fortune, and that you have
not a long line of ancestry behind you? How
many of our best men are self-made V

Not quite so near the ground as we,' said
Caleb, still maintaining the self-humiliation
which was but another name for desperation.

They that humble themselves shall be exalted,'
said Mrs. Clanricarde ; * and so shall you
be, my dear young friend.'

Mrs. Clanricarde, ma'am, don't,' cried Caleb,
feeling like a drowning man with the waters
closing over his head.

1 To show you how highly 1 esteem, and, I
may say, x love you,' Mrs. Clanricarde went on to
say, * and to show you, too, how clearly I have
read your secret heart, I am going to be your
interpreter to yourself. You love Es telle, and
are too bashful to say so. Is it not so ? Have
I not read your secret, as I say V

Caleb's face changed to a very piteousness of
embarrassment. From red to white, and back
again, his staring eyes suffused with tears, his
open lips twitching, his hands nervously plucking
at the huge chain that crossed his waistcoat
he looked as he felt, as if tortured by a thousand
contradictory demons — torn by a thousand
different emotions.

Mrs. Clanricarde laid her hand on his arm,
and her slight, slim fingers pressed like slender
rods of iron into his flesh.

Is it not so V she repeated.

I admire your daughter, Mrs. Clanricarde,'
stammered Caleb in a strange voice.

You love her,' insisted Estelle's mother.

The poor fellow put up his hands before his
face.

Yes; God help me, I do,' he sobbed.

His guard was beaten down. He was at his
adversary's mercy.

1 Then you shall marry her,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, in tones the cold determination of which
no affected tremor could hide — that cold, hard
determination, as pitiless as an inquisitor's decree

of death, just touched with a certain
breadth of triumph which made it rather more
diabolical than human.

1 How can I, Mrs. Clanricarde V said Caleb,
still behind the mask of his freckled hands.
She doesn't value me. She never could love
me. How can I wed her against her will, as it
would be V

She will learn to love you,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde. 'You are too good a man not to beloved.
She respects you already. That is one
step gained. The rest will follow.'

Caleb slowly shook his head. He Alas just
enough master of himself to disbelieve this flattering
promise, sweet as it was — responsive to
his own ideas as it also was.

'My dear young man, you do not know a
woman,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, a pitying smile
borne like the breath of flowers on her words.
6 We are such creatures of the heart ! We are
so easily gained by men ! Give such a girl as
my Estelle, so sweet and gentle as she is, such
a husband as yourself, and in a very short time
she will learn to prize and adore you. Your

goodness, your patience, your cleverness and
knowledge, will all fascinate and win her. I
know what I am saying

Still Caleb held his hands before his face, and
slowly shook his sandy-coloured head from side
to side. The rod had not yet budded ; the
waters imprisoned in the rock had not yet been
released. Mrs. Clanricarde was beginning to
feel doubtful whether her Waterloo would be
won or not. Then she said, fervently :

1 Believe me, my clear, I speak as a woman,
avec renaissance de cause. Once married to
you, Estelle will learn to love you, because you
will treat her well, and because you love her so
fondly. Why, my dear Mr. Caleb, what else
makes women love, but because the man loves
them ! They do not give their hearts unsought
unmoved ! Your love for my daughter is the
guarantee that she will love you.'

At this Caleb took down his hands and showed
his tear-stained face in yet more pitiable plight
than before. But into its disorder had flashed
a ray of hope and happiness and exaltation so
supreme as almost to beautify its homely outlines.

It was the soul of an angel looking
through the eyes of an animal.

Do you really think so, Mrs. Clanricarde V
he said, clasping his hands as in prayer. 'If
you thought I could make her happy, and get
but so much as a sparrow's meal of love from
her, 1 would let her walk over my body if she'd
a mind — I would lie down and die at her feet ! ?

< What a drivelling idiot !' thought Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
contemptuously.

Nothing in her nature answered to this fervid
enthusiasm. Hard, worldly, practical, calculating,
life was to her a chess-table, where emotions
were good only as they might be used for
defence or attack, but where the main object
was success. She despised all unworkable and
unpractical impulses, and, though she used them
to her own advantage — as now — she would
rather have dealt with more rational and impersonal
arguments. Had Caleb made a businesslike
bargain with her, offering his money as an
equivalent for Estelle's beauty, she would have
discussed the terms on the basis of their needs
as coolly as she would have bargained for a

VOL. I. M

carriage-horse or a wheelbarrow. It would have
been a train of thought — a genesis of motives —
which she would have respected and understood.
To meet all this passionate sincerity and humility
with sentiments to her as unstable as
so many mist-wreaths on the mountain, was
fatiguing, embarrassing, and in some sense degrading.
Like many clever diplomatists she
did not love deceit for its own sake, but would
rather meet her adversary and frame her protocol
on facts as they were — gaining the victory by
dexterous handling and skilful marshalling rather
than by deceptions which lessened the value of
her own intellect by showing the worthlessness
of her opponent's.

What a drivelling idiot !' she thought.
Trust me, my dear,' she said aloud. ' I pledge
you my word, as a woman who knows her own
sex and her daughter best of all, Estelle will
love you as much as you can desire. It will be
your own fault if she does not. And I think
we are sure of your part.'

God bless you for those comforting words !'
said Caleb, now carried away from his former

moorings as completely as a skiff in a tidal wave.
4 If she will have me, she shall never have cause
to repent it, so help me God in heaven !'

Thank you, my son,' said Mrs. Clanricarde.

With again an outburst of fine impulsiveness
she kissed the poor omadhaun on his cheek and
slightly shuddered as she did so. Then, hastily
rising from the seat where they had placed
themselves — that seat under the shade of the
spreading cedar where Estelle had so often sat
and dreamed of Charlie and their unlucky love —
she said with well-acted emotion : ' Stay where
you are, dear boy, and Estelle shall come to
you.'

Her bashful icicle was now thawed. His
fancy, hope, love, enthusiasm had swept away
his timid self-distrust, and he was where she
would have him— where she had taken such
infinite pains to carry him. The iron must be
struck while it was hot, and Estelle must be
amenable to discipline. She had had trouble
enough to bend one of the recal cit rants to her
will. The other must be made to yield — by
force, if necessary.

m2

Stay where you are,' she repeated, the smile
on her face like sunshine on a glacier. ' Estelle
will not be long.'

With which she swept away, and Caleb was
left to his own reflections, or rather to his mental
turmoil, wherein he w r as conscious of only a
many-coloured haze of indefinite joy, like the
foam of a fountain where a rainbow quivers.

Was it all true ? Would she indeed be now
brought to love him as her mother promised ?
After long years of patient waiting, of loving
serving and faithful apprenticeship, would she
some day come to him, and of her own free will
hold out her hand to him — give him her sweet
lips to kiss as one who had the right — offer him
the treasures of her love, and say to him : ' I love
you?' Could it be true ? How loyally he would
shape his life to earn this great reward ! If she
would be his, it should be hers to set the lines of
their relations. She should be to him as a bird
whose broken wing kept her from free flight
and chained her captive to the earth — but she
should not be caged. She should be as a wandering
angel of God, lost for a season from her

home in the distant heaven, but he would not
make her bear the burdens of hee assumed
womanhood, unless for love of him she renounced
her higher place and gave herself to him of her
own will. Sacred, untouched, reverenced, he
would care for her and surround her with all
comfort and protection, but he would never
forget the elemental differences between them,
nor sacrilegiously step over the gulf that divided
them. She should be his queen, not his wife ;
and to her alone should belong the crown of
sovereignty and the sceptre of dominion.

So he dreamed and thought, wrapped in his
love like that sleeping babe in his robe of fire,
while Mrs. Clanricarde in the drawing-room
undertook the subjugation of her daughter, and
drew the cords of her maternal authority to the
utmost they would bear.

Her task was harder than she had anticipated.
Fortified by her love for the one, which gave
increased poignancy of disgust for the other,
Estelle rebelled and refused, till her mother's
patience gave way, and violent words were
spoken which terrified the girl to hear while

they lashed to increased fury by their very
echo the mother who had said them. Dark
threats of public disgrace and eternal separation
; of life-long banishment from home and
country, and consignment to those French relations
who would know how to treat an un dutiful
daughter as she deserved ; passionate reminders
of the curse lying on the head of a
discarded child, like a crown of thorns ever
pressing into the flesh — like a shadow on the
path blotting out all sunshine ; a sudden return
to the pathos of appeal ; the picture of father
and mother turned into the streets to starve,
reduced to a beggary which the sacrifice of her
own impossible fancy could avert — all that
could most terrify a young girl's imagination
and touch a daughter's heart, Mrs. Clanricarde
poured forth into Estelle's ears like a boiling-flood
of mingled blood and tears — a fiery storm
of mingled wrath and sorrow.

For some time it was all in vain. Estelle
kept the image of her Love before her eyes, and
clung to the pedestal whereon he stood. Then,
at last, like something that gives way with a

sudden snap, she, as Caleb had done before her,
threw down her arms and yielded herself
prisoner to the force she could no longer resist.

'I will do as you wish, mother,' she said
abruptly, standing stiff and rigid as if made of
marble. * I will go out to Mr. Stagg.'

And God will bless you !' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, putting her arms round the slender form
that felt as if stricken to stone. * God will
bless you as your mother does,' she repeated,
trying to draw down the averted head so that
she might kiss that clay-cold face.

But Estelle tore herself away.

Don't!' she said harshly. 'I cannot bear
that, mother ! And leave God's name out of a
sacrilege and a sin

1 As you will, my poor dear darling !' said her
mother, with a sigh admirably executed, drooping
her own head with tender resignation.

So long as she had the main thing secure she
cared little for the accessories ; and, whether
Estelle counted her self-sacrifice as virtue or as
sin, made no change in her mother's mind. As
has been said, she was not one to spend time or

strength on sentimentalities which produced
nothing. Provided the facts came out right
and the sum was duly proved, the rest was
mere verbiage. As now, with Caleb's ecstatic
love and Estelle's heart-stricken despair.

Then Estelle, her face as pale as the face of
a corpse and the feeling of living death in her
soul, went slowly over the lawn to the seat
under that now desecrated cedar where Caleb
Stagg sat — dreaming of the time when he should
call her his wife and make her his queen.

CHAPTER XL

ON THE OTHER SIDE.

My mother tells me you want to speak to me,
Mr. Stagg,' said Estelle, as she came up to
where Caleb sat, still enveloped in that prismatic
haze of hope through which he saw nothing
but her possible love and his assured
devotion, like flowers seen through the loosened
silver of the fountain.

Like a sleeper suddenly awakened from a
dream of treasure to the knowledge of loss, her
dead white face and stiffened figure, the coldness
of her voice and the way in which she
stood — her head turned away and her eyes
looking into space — all brought Caleb back
from hope to fact, from dream to reality, and

made him conscious of his true position. The
exaltation of his fancy died down and left his
soul like the burnt-out slag of a furnace. He
saw it all — as he had seen it before he had
suffered himself to be flattered into folly by
Mrs. Clanricarde's false words. Put it as he
would — be as tender, as devoted as he would —
he was but the purchaser and she was the
slave — he, the absolute Agamemnon, and she
the bound and helpless Iphigenia who had to
bleed at the altar under his hand.

As she stood there, so sad and cold and
lovely and reluctant — her natural shyness hardened
to disdain, and dread of what was to come
turning her ordinary fear to wound into the
very cruelty of self-defence — a new spirit suddenly
seemed to possess Caleb. His painful
nervousness passed, his painful awkwardness
disappeared. In his very love for her he forgot
himself, and the consciousness of his personal
shortcomings ceased to trouble him. He could
not change his dog-like face, nor the ' wersh '
colour of his hair and eyes, nor the ungainly
lines described by his gestures, nor the grating

quality of his voice, but the mind and thoughts
and spirit behind these unpleasing externals
were different from his ordinary presentation ;
and purity of motive — the heroism of unselfishness
— conquered poverty and ugliness of material,
as must needs be when a man is passionate-and
in earnest.

Nay, never look like that, Miss Clanricarde.
You must decide this matter for yourself,' he
said gently. ' I doubt you know what it all
means.'

Estelle was silent.

'Mrs. Clanricarde has told me that you are
willing to many me,' he continued, his eyes
fixed with grave tenderness on the girl's pallid
face.

Estelle shivered through all her body, and her
red full lips drew themselves into a close line,
like one who prevents a cry of pain.

I understand it all,' then said Caleb, still
watching her. ' Your affairs are in but a poor
way, from all I hear, and not likely to get better.
Father, he has more money than he can count
or knows what to do with ; and, as his only

child, I shall have it all when he and mother go.
I should have most of it now if I were to many ;
and Mrs. Clanricarde thinks it would be a good
thing for the family to get you well settled for
gear. And I'm the only big purse-holder hereaway.
So she wants me for you, and you are
not willing. That's just the long and short of it
all.'

He spoke in a quiet, firm, level tone, very
unlike his usual interrupted manner which left
on the hearer the impression of physical writhing.

'How can I be willing when 1 do not love
you?' said Estelle hastily. 'What girl wants
to marry a man she does not love?'

And you do not love me, Miss Clanricarde—
and never could?' asked Caleb. 'It is idle to
ask if you love me now,' he added, with the
profoundest sadness in his voice. ' God help
me! how could you? But do you think that
after years and years of kindness from me — of
worship and devotion, and treating you as a
queen, and never asking you for nought, you
would not give me something of your own freewill
— do you think that years after now you

could come to have some land of patience with
me — some little kindness for me V

Even Estelle was touched by the humility
and unselfishness of her ungainly lover. Great
as was her peril — and Charlie's — she could not
be so inhuman as not to recognize the intrinsic-goodness
of her assigned executioner, who-handled
the knife so delicately and was so-gentle
and tender.

I should respect you, Mr. Stagg, and I respect
you now,' she answered in a low voice ; ' but I
could never love you — never ! never ! never !'
she repeated with sudden passion. ' How could
IV she added, her eyebrows arched, and her
under lip, which i a bee had newly stung,' justa
line thrust forward.

Nay, indeed, how could you, Miss Clanri-
carde?' sighed Caleb. 'I'm not of the kind fora
dainty lady like you to love. I know it only
too well, Miss Clanricarde ; and small blame to
you, I say.'

'It is not that,' said soft-hearted Estelle,
shamed to compassion by this complete self-surrender.
' Many girls would love you, Mr.

Stagg, so kind and good as you are — many
would. I am sure of that.'

1 But not you, Miss Olamicarde V

'How can I?' she replied, with the desperate
calmness of a gambler throwing his last chance.
'I love Mr. Osborne, and only him — and I could
never care for any other man in the world. How
-could I say that I should ever love you ? — or
anyone, indeed V she added.

Ay ! is it so V said Caleb, with a little start.
4 1 had heard there was a something between
you and Mr. Osborne, but I didn't know it had
gone that length.'

We have been engaged since we were boy
and girl said Estelle ; ' and I will never desert
him. I will wait for him all my life. If I cannot
marry him, I will never marry anyone else,
and, if I were dragged into the church, I would
say " No" before the altar.'

'And your mother — Mrs. Clanricarde — knows
this?' he asked.

Yes,' said Estelle.

Then, how could she offer me to marry yon,
and say that you would consent V asked Caleb

again, with the honest clown's amaze at refined
double-dealing.

4 She spoke as she wished,' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo's
daughter, with the finest edge of
scorn in her flexible voice. ' My father has
lost a quantity of money lately — all our fortune,
indeed ; Charlie is poor ; you are rich ;
and that is the whole story. You know that
yourself. The thing is plain and simple
enough.'

Yes, that is just as I put it,' said Caleb, as
quietly as if he were speaking of the most indifferent
matter possible, and not of a thing
which went with his very life and touched the
innermost recesses of his being. But he was
anxious to spare her both pain and embarrassment.
'And that brings us round to our ,
Miss Clanricarde,' he went on to say,
after a moment's pause. ' What is to be done
for you, if you will not take me for my money's
sake ? You are just where you were.'

1 They must go into a smaller house, and I
must go out as a governess, or something, till
Charlie can afford to marry,' said Estelle bravely.

'There are worse things in the world than
either work or poverty,' she added.

Ay, that there are said Caleb a little
dreamily. ' An unloved man is worse.'

6 Yes, a great deal,' she replied quite simply —
to repent of her candour when she saw those
poor round, pale eyes grow red with sudden tears.

If I could help you in your strait I would,
Miss Clanricarde,' then said Caleb, turning away
from the thoughts of his own sorrow to lose
himself in her difficulties. ' But I have no
means of my own. Father, he's a tight hander
and docs not make me so much as an allowance.
He gives me all I want, and pays all I buy
without a word, that I will say for him ; but he
never lets me have more than a couple of pounds
in my pocket, and won't, he says, till I bring
home a wife. And then all will be mine, and
he'll keep back only that'll do for him and
mother. So that, you see, Miss Clanricarde, I can
do nothing out of myself. I'm like the Irish
boggle,' he added, with a little dash of bitterness
in his voice ; ' that leprechaun who went
with the estate

'Some one will like to have you with or
without your money,' said Estelle by way of
consolation.

She thought of the gardener's daughter, and
of their own pretty, well-mannered parlourmaid.

And I should have the same answer to give
that you have just given to me,' returned Caleb,
with a quietness that was in itself a reproach.
A man's heart, Miss Clanricarde, can no more
be played battledore and shuttlecock with thana
woman's. It stays where it has once been
given.'

Estelle gave another shiver.

Don't say that !' she exclaimed.

So far she was like her mother. She could
discuss this matter now on an impersonal and
unemotional basis calmly enough ; when poor
Caleb slipped into sentiment the old revulsion
overtook her. And the revulsion was easy
enough to see, especially to one enlightened by
humility as was this unhappy omadhaun.

Well, no, you are right, Miss Clanricarde,
that was out of the way,' he returned ; ' and it's
not me, but you, as we have to think of ; and I

VOL. I. N

can't see my way for you. What will your
mother, Mrs. Clanricarde, say to it V he asked.
She knew that I was proud to have her
promise, and that I was not wanting on my
part. What will she say when nothing comes
of it!'

Estelle looked scared.

She will be very angry,' she said, realizing
the scene that would have to follow on this
consultation.

With you, Miss Clanricarde V

< With me.'

4 And how will that be for you?' he asked
anxiously.

'I shall be very sorry,' answered the girl,
still with that shadow of fear over her sweet
face. * But what else can I do, Mr. Stagg ?
There is Charlie to think of as well as my father
and mother. And then there is my promise.
How could I ever look at myself in the glass
were I to perjure myself, as I should do, if I
were to marry anyone else % I cannot do other
than I have done. It would be too sinful and
shameful if I did.'

1 But it hurts me to think of your being troubled
— of your mother, Mrs. Clanricarde, being
vexed with you,' said Caleb, his honest heart in
his eyes.

I must bear it as patiently as I can,' answered
Estelle ; * unless '

She stopped short, then looked at Caleb with
a strange suggestive, half-beseeching appeal in
her beautiful eyes and quivering lips, which he
read but did not understand. She wanted
something of him. What was it? The prayer
was patent — the words were inaudible. How
could he come by their sense ?

'Unless what, Miss Clanricarde?' he asked.
6 Is it aught I can do for you ? Oh, but I would,
even to die for you !' he added, not with a burst
of tenderness so much as a solemn kind of
declaration — a proffer of service wherein sacrifice
would be for healing.

It is mean of me to ask it ?' said Estelle
hesitatingly. 'But mother will be so angry
with me, and to be angry with you will not
matter. But it is so mean and cowardly of me,'
she repeated. * Only you are so good !'

n2

'If I can serve yon, I will. I can say no
more, Miss Clanricarde,' said Caleb, his lips, too,
twitching nervously.

She called him good ! — she whose favour he
would have given his life to gain ! What, indeed,
would he not do to deserve her praise?
She could not love him, but he could serve her.
He could not rescue her from poverty by the
devotion of his whole life, but she said that he
could be of use to her. Would he not, then ?
Ay, gladly, even to the sacrifice of his life, if
need be !

1 You cau, indeed, help me with my mother,'
said Estelle, a deep blush on her face — a blush
of shame for her own cowardice and selfishness.
Tell her that it is you who will not marry me,
not I who will not marry you — that I am willing,
but that you, of your own free will, will not.'

Something passed through Caleb as if he had
been struck about the heart. For a moment
thought and life and clear perception of things,
and even feeling, seemed to fail him, and he
was conscious of only a sharp pain and a choking
at his throat, so that he could not speak

and could scarcely breathe. This, then, was to
be his crowning martyrdom. Of his own freewill
he was to renounce her — this exquisite
treasure of loveliness whom a king might well
give his crown to gain. Ah, it was hard ! Any
trial rather than this, he thought — as we do,
when the keen edge of the knife is on our flesh.
It was as the offer of food to a starving man,
who then is bidden to refuse it, and to go on
his weary way, faint with fatigue and chill to
the very heart with hunger. It was hard ! Oh,
dear Lord, but it was a sore trial ! He might —
and he must not. If he chose to press, she
must yield. The mother would make her ; and
his dream of ultimately winning her might
come true. And here was he asked, not only
to refuse this proffered joy, but to take on himself
an ingratitude that was like to blasphemy.

'You will — will you not, Mr. Stages said
Estelle's soft voice, pleading, enticing.

Still Caleb could not speak. His heart was
too big ; his throat too constricted ; his anguish
too great. She laid her hand on his, and the
touch roused him. He looked at her almost in

bewilderment — first at her, and then at her hand
lying on his.

1 It will be the greatest kindness you can dome,'
he heard her say. ' Take it on yourself.
Tell my mother you will not marry me, though
I said I would marry you. I do not know what
will become of me, if you do not. Perhaps she
will turn me out of the house, and curse me.
She said she would, before I came out to you.
I dare not tell her. But it will all come right,
if you give me up of your own accord. Do
this, Mr. Stagg. I shall be so grateful to you,
and so will Charlie,' she added, with a girl's
unconsciousness of cruelty to the man who
loves her and whom she does not love — for sake
of the woman's fidelity to the man she does
love.

On that Caleb found his voice.

'Never mind him,' he said hurriedly. 'I will
do for you what will be a shame to me, as a
man ; but I'll do it for you,' he repeated huskily.
' But it is only for you. And may he you
favour reward you as you deserve, and care for
you as I would have done.'

1 How good you are !' said Estelle, beginning
to realize the full meaning of the moment.
'I can never thank you enough, nor repay
you.'

If thought happy, my bonny lass, that'll be
my meed said Caleb, with infinite tenderness,
lapsing into his old forms of speech and accent ;
the intensity of his feelings causing him to forget
his later manners. ' If I can spare thee
pain, what matters what such as I suffer ? Thou
shalt walk over the body of me, if thought a
mind.'

He raised his hand — hers still lying on it —
till his lips just touched the long white fingers
athwart his. With the trembling reverence of
a worshipper at a shrine — with the holy tenderness
of a mother with her first-bon — he
just touched, he did not kiss, those precious
fingers, white and fragrant as the petals of a

God bless thee !' he then said with a sob
that was as the sob of death — that was in very
truth the sob of death for him. < God bless
thee, my queenly lass, and may the Lord abide

with thee always, to thy joy and gladness forever
and ever.'

Don't, Mr. Stagg,' said Estelle, beginning to
weep.

He was no longer the distasteful omadhaun
fit only for the laughter of the well-conditioned
the ungainly Beast whom no maiden born of
woman could love. He was the hunchback
whose wings had unfolded — the prince whose
gross disguise was rent and cast away. She
could not love him nor marry him, but she could
respect and pity him — and she did.

6 Now let us go, Miss Clanricarde,' said Caleb,
with the same kind of sad firmness he had
shown at the first. ' We know what we have
to do, both one and t'other, and I think we
understand each other. But oh !' he added,
with one last return to the old loving, yearning
spirit, ' whenever you think of them as loved
you best, remember poor Caleb Stagg, the miner
lad, who broke his heart to save yours a pang.
Ay, my bonny queen, who would have died for
you if so be as you would have lived. And
greater love hath no man than that he should

give his life for a friend. Now let us get this
job over. I shall sleep lighter if I know that
I have done your bidding, and pleasured you,
no matter how.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE POWER OF LOVE.

Mrs. Clanricarde was ill in bed. That was
but natural. Breakfast in bed and a bad headache
when things go cross are, to a woman,
what a sulky dinner at his club and a bottle of
that claret with the yellow seal are to a man.
And to weep unavailing tears with one's head
buried in a pillow and one's mind possessed by
spiteful thoughts, is perhaps, on the whole, a
better way of overcoming a trouble than to blot
it out with wine-stains, which obliterate everything
save the memory of colour, savour and
fragrance.

Last night's scene with Caleb Stagg, or rather
the disappointment and despair included in it,

had temporarily disabled Estelle's mother. She
was like a defeated general, deserted by his
friends and in hiding from his foes ; and she
wanted time to rally those scattered forces
which were her schemes, and reform her plan
of campaign. Caleb's self-immolation had not
done much by way of protection for Estelle ;
for even he could not pretend that he rejected
her for want of his own love for her. Out of
very respect for her he was forced to say that
he would not accept her sacrifice, though she
was willing to make it. He was bound to tell
so much of the truth as should both save her
dignity and accentuate her unfortunate love for
her fascinating Detrimental. Though what was
the good of that when circumstance was even
harder than Mrs. Clanricarde, and the two young
people could not marry, short of qualifying
themselves for a lunatic asylum ? Still, there
was no other way; and as Estelle did not intend
to give up her lover, come what might,
Caleb's chief duty, as it seemed to him, was to
aid her at all costs. And no mother, whatever
her desire or whatever her need, can fling her

daughter so persistently at the head of a man
who says he will not and cannot marry her, as
to argue the merits of the case and discuss his
motives like a recipe for frying potatoes.

To a bystander, personally uninterested therefore
philosophically tolerant, the irrepressible
freedom of thought and the unconquerable
nature of love — and the right of each individual
to maintain both — are truisms which no one can
contravene. You can neither force faith nor
disentangle yourself when it holds you ; and
you have a right to your own belief in all matters
not mathematically demonstrated. Also, if
you love, you love, and cannot help yourself ;
and there is an end of the argument. 
himself could not separate two
hearts which have welded themselves into one
substance, like the fused and hammered barrel
of a gun ; and it would be as reasonable to rail
at scarlet-fever as at this overwhelming and
omnipotent passion we call Love. But to the
family, and those whose own fortunes are implicated
in these mental conditions, divergence
from the received catechism is a sin, and persistency

of love is a crime when the one brings
sectarian disesteem and the other matrimonial
disadvantage. For the angle makes all the difference
; and more than magnets have negative
and positive poles.

Hence, though she might be philosophic,
Mrs. Clanricarde was very human when she had
her breakfast in bed ; deluged half-a-dozen
handkerchiefs with her tears ; revolved in her
mind countless plans of punishment for Estelle;
refused to see her ; and for the time thrust heron
the outside of her affections, because Charlie
Osborne still held the citadel of that obstinate
heart, which had not struck its flag nor surrendered
as it should when summoned. If she
had not loved that horrid young man, thought
Mrs. Clanricarde bitterly, she would have accepted
Caleb Stagg with no more reluctance
than that which so many women have felt and
got over in time. It was all this foolish, wicked,
undutiful attachment that stood in the way and
reduced the miner's money to Rubezahl's dry
leaves. And Mrs. Clanricarde thought herself
justified in her displeasure that Estelle had not

conquered her rebellious heart and thrown that
intruding love once for all into space and the
limbo of the past. It was her duty so to do,
she argued ; and a mother does well to be angry
with a daughter who fails in her duty — loves
where she ought not and refuses money when
she has the offer.

By all of which it came about that Estelle
had a morning of full liberty — with Charlie Osborne
waiting on chance in the wood hard by.

What is that we love in each other ? Who
can tell ? It is not only beauty. ' There is no
such thing as that we beauty call,' but fancy
makes all as it lists, and to many unbeautiful
creatures is given the most entire and heartwhole
devotion. Nor is it necessarily youth — the old
thank God for that, when dear eyes shine with
the light of love on their faded faces, and those
who, had Time ruled their ages straight, would
have clasped them in their arms as lovers now
lie on their hearts as children. Nor is it even
intellect ; else would those stupid liabilities of
whom we know so many, go wearily through
life, wanting that of which they have so great

abundance now. Nor yet again is it goodness ;
for many whose souls stand shivering and
naked, without so much as a rag of virtue to
cover them — many, cruel, vain, selfish, false —
receive such passionate incense of love-worship
so that no temple of the gods is more fragrant
than theirs, and no car of Juggernaut drives
over more faithful hearts than those which
break at the feet of these smiling demons. We
love because we love ; and our love is no less
strong because its genesis is obscure, and we
cannot trace the flood to its source. All we
know is the fact of that flood, on the margin of
which bloom roses and forget-me-nots — or hemlock
and the deadly nightshade.

Tried by certain tests, there was no question
of comparative merit between Charlie Osborne
and Caleb Stagg. Tried by others, the scale
gave another measurement. In person, bearing,
charm of manner, delightfulness of acquirements,
flexibility of intellect, the penniless
young artist — the unemployed Eudemon — stood
supreme. For the mere human creature that
he was, Venus might have taken him to replace

Adonis, and she would not have found him so
reluctant; and Libussa might have well exchanged
her sceptre for his love. Had he and
Hylas bathed together, the water-nymphs who
drown men for their beauty would have chosen
him as the fairest; and no Norseman would
have mourned Bahadur dead while Charlie Osborne
had been alive. Everything was in harmony.
Person, voice, manner, accomplishments,
all balanced and fitted together like the scent,
shape, and colour of a flower. The qualities of
the root — whether poisonous, nutritious, or useful
only to itself — were on another page of the
great book altogether. Such as he was to the
outer senses, he was worthy of any woman's
love ; and that he was intrinsically weak, and
selfish because weak — unable to rise to the
height of any form of heroism because self-indulgent
on all sides of life — was one of those
things hidden within, like the worm which has
reduced the firm white kernel to blackened
dust. If Estelle quieted her conscience with the
magic words : ' It is for Charlie,' Charlie used the
same on his own account. His own needs,

desires and wishes were imperative and beyond
all other considerations. And what was vice
and what was virtue in another, changed their
name and complexion when translated into the
language of his thoughts and deeds. There are
more kinds of self-made men than one; and
their own gods are as many as architects of
their own fortunes and builders of their own
monuments.

Like a bird running to her nest, Estelle stole
quickly up the lane and into the leafy temple,
where she knew she should find her shrine
already tenanted. And, sure enough, there was
Charlie, diligently sketching the forms and leafage
of the trees as a kind of excuse to himself,
as well as to others who might see him sitting
there in that holy place, waiting on chance and
Estelle Clanricarde. When he saw her turn
that corner and come swiftly up the narrow
path, his heart leaped within him, and he sprang
forward to meet her with a young lover's fervour
and delight. For all the selfish quality of his
love it was very real ; and perhaps the more imperative
because of its selfishness.

VOL. I. O

This is a joy !' he said, ecstatically, holding
her hands in his and looking into her face with
those insatiable eyes which no amount of looking
satisfies. ' My sweetest ! my darling ! how
dear of you to come ! How have you been able
to get away so early V

1 Mother has a headache and is in bed, so I
thought I would not be missed, and that we
should be safe,' said Estelle, laughing for very
happiness.

She did not realize her mother's headache.
She thought only of being with Charlie.

'That is jolly,' said Charlie, realizing the
occasion no more than Estelle. ' But, my Star,
what has happened ? ' he asked suddenly.
4 You have something to tell me ; I can see you
have.'

Yes, indeed, I have something very great to
tell you answered Estelle ; ' but not just at this
moment, Charlie. Let us forget everything but
each other for just a minute. Tell me of yourself
— how you are ; what you have been doing ;
where you have been ; whom you have seen ;
everything that has happened to you since the

day before yesterday — and then I will tell you
my news.'

But Charlie had no great events to tell. He
had seen Lady Elizabeth and finished the
sketch of the water-mill in the lane leading
down to Hindfleet ; he had not slept very well
last night and he had not eaten much breakfast
to-day ; he had had a pain in his side
and in his right temple, and now he was quite
well and as jolly as a sand-boy, seeing that she
was here. To which catalogue of insignificant
ailments, magnified by love into dangerous
symptoms, Estelle listened with a grave face
that seemed really sad enough for threatened
death, while her eyes grew brighter and larger
and more tender than ever with the tears that
lay behind them and crept slowly within the
lids.

'Poor darling,' she said ; 'you want some one
to take care of you.'

1 Yes, you,' said Charlie. ' I shall never be
quite well till I have you as my sweet little
wife. That is the only thing I am living for,
Estelle. I believe I should die if I lost you.'

o2

You shall not do that she answered. * Do
not be afraid, Charlie. I am yours now and forever,
in life and to death. No one and nothing-could
part us.'

'Not even Mr. Caleb Stagg?' asked Charlie,
with a fine disdain that, as things were, looked
almost like divination.

1 No, that is all at an end,' she said simply.
That is what I have to tell you, darling. We
have had such a scene at home ! Such a dreadful
time ! Mother made that poor fellow propose
to me ! Just fancy ! And I had to refuse him.
That is why she has such a headache to-day —
poor mother !'

Why do you call him poor fellow, Estelle?'
said Charlie, suddenly stiffened and chilled into
a very human icicle.

Because he behaved so well,' said Estelle.
6 He was so generous and land, and did all I
wanted him to do so nicely, and bore mother's
anger so bravely for my sake. He did behave
well, Charlie

1 Don't, Estelle,' cried Charlie, rising in wrathful
agitation. ' I cannot bear this. By heavens !

I will go and insult the fellow. That he should
presume — that he should have the insolence to
lift his eyes to your face ! He deserves a horsewhipping,
and I have the best mind in the world
to give him one.'

1 Charlie dear ' began Estelle.

'Don't!' he said, again interrupting her: 'if you
say a word in his favour you will send me mad !'

Charlie dear !' she remonstrated again.

Do you think it very pleasant for a man to
hear the girl he loves praise and defend another
fellow who has had the insolence to make love
to her V cried the angry upholder of love's exclusive
privileges. ' 1 tell you, Estelle, he deserves
horsewhipping ; and for the turn of a hair
I will give him one.'

1 Well, I will not say anything if it vexes you,'
said Estelle meekly. ' You see, I was bound to
tell you the truth, dear, else I would not have
spoken of it at all

1 And you would have kept secrets from me V
he said in an aggrieved voice.

No. It is because I could not do this that I
told you,' was her patient answer.

1 The scoundrel ! How dare he V fumed
Charlie.

She did not speak. She only slid her hand
within his arm and gave it a little squeeze with
her fingers.

Now you are sulky said Charlie, with the
injustice of his kind.

Indeed, darling, I am not !' she answered,
her sweet eyes full of love and tears.

What a brute I am !' cried her handsome
tyrant, suddenly penitent and submissive.
'Now I have made you cry! What a vile
temper I have ! I am not worthy of your love,
Estelle.'

6 You are worthy of ten times more, if I could
possibly feel it ! But I cannot,' said Estelle.

On which he kissed her, and the little skirmish
ended in the way in which their little skirmishes
which, by the way, were always on his side —
always did end.

Then, having come to his rational and natural
senses again, Charlie condescended to hear particulars
of the affair ; and, when Estelle had told
him all, even he was constrained to admit that

the omadhann had behaved like a gentleman
and a man of honour, and that he was not half
a bad fellow, after all, and really he, Mr. Charles
Osborne, might almost forgive him this involuntary
trespass on his own property, so handsomely
had it been repented of and atoned for.

Which was just about the way the world goes
in its estimate of human action — just about the
amount of perception to be found among men
and women when they judge of others from
the centre of self, and have not so much sympathy
as enables them to see into motives and
judge of actions by the nobler standard. What
had been the highest effort of unselfish love in
Caleb was to Charles Osborne a confession of
comparative inferiority, which redeemed an act
of else wise gross presumption. And what it
had cost, and from what source it had sprung,
entered into his calculations no more than the
conversion of so much ammonia into corn troubles
the participating poppies — nor how much
consumption of phosphorus has gone into that
thought interests the thinker. The most curious
part of selfishness is its absolute unconsciousness,

so that you might as well try to make a,
statue aware of its defects as selfishness to
recognize itself.

Estelle's thoughts were by no means as definite
as this, but she had a dim perception somehow
that Charlie had not got quite the right end
of things. But she was not one of those steadfast
souls which could say, ' a friend of Plato,
but the greater friend of truth.' She was the
lover of Charlie Osborne, and all the rest might
go. She was of the kind of whom most men
make their ideal of womanhood. She gave not
only herself to love, but also her soul, her principles,
her mind. ' He to God and she to God
through him,' was her unspoken creed ; and her
lover was also her master and her priest. Still,
she thought Caleb Stagg had behaved better and
more nobly than Charlie quite allowed ; and if
Lady Elizabeth had been there she felt sure that
she would have seen things as she did, and would
have given fuller credit and richer praise than
was included in her darling's half-haughty condescension
of acknowledgment.

All this, however, was by-the-by, and need

not trouble her — or him. As things were, the
shining hour had to be improved, and let all
else be forgotten. The mother's tears ; the
father's failures ; Caleb's love rejected and proffered
wealth refused ; Charlie's impecuniosity
and the hopeless outlook of the future — all were
flung into the great river like so much thrashed-out
chaff, and only the joy of the moment was
retained.

Meanwhile, a princely patron was in course
of moulding for Charlie Osborne's benefit ; and
Anthony Harford was steaming across the Atlantic
in the Greyhound. The gods were creeping
on with their feet of wool, and in a short
time would be up with those on whom they were
minded to lay their hands of iron. Old Herrick's
advice was never more timely than now,
and to gather rosebuds while they might, was
the young lovers' highest wisdom.

CHAPTER XIII.

ANTICIPATIONS.

In the lane down the hill, where the worn old
water-mill was the picturesque point much
affected by artists, lived the Asplines, at their
pretty place called Hindfleet. They were not
autochthones entitled to wear the golden grasshopper
of Kingshouse, but had come here from
their own county some twelve years ago — for
reasons not difficult to be imagined.

Mrs. A saline's story was not unique, nor yet
was it disgraceful. A buxom cook to a rich old
bachelor, she had filled with credit all the offices
connected with the tradesmen's books and the
kitchen range. In fact, she had filled them
with so much credit that in the end she came to

greater security than befalls those rash women
who trust to man's momentary weakness and
their own abiding influence. Her master married
her — as her spotless discretion demanded —
and, dying when their little daughter was but
five years old, left her as buxom a widow as
she had been a cook and a wife, and the assured
possessor for her life of his handsome fortune.
At her death it passed on to Anne, who was
thus an heiress worth any man's looking after.

Besides being a woman of means, Mrs. Aspline
was also a woman of strong good sense and of
more than average ability. She had less vanity
than belongs to her sex in general and to successful
couriers in particular, and could appraise
things at their true value without adding
her own individuality as a make weight. One
fact of modern society especially had she taken
to heart — the omnipotence of money. What
birth and valour and virtue and learning were
in bygone generations your banker's book is
now; and, from a childhood passed in the gutter
to actions deserving the treadmill, society agrees
to cover its eyes with a bandage, provided the

gold of the embroidery is thick enough and
Heavy enough. This was the main lesson which
Mrs. Aspline had learned during her translation
from the kitchen to the drawing-room; and she
acted on it. She had sense enough never to
flaunt her wealth, especially in the faces of those
who wanted what she had in such abundance.
But she had tact enough to force them all to
feel its value by the generous use she made of
it, and the freedom with which she gave when
help was asked for, or needed without being
asked for. She subscribed handsomely to all the
local charities and some that were national;
but she gave even more in that kind of semi-secrecy
wherein the right hand whispers melodiously
to the left, and the left lets fall the
echoes. The vicar could count on her for a
five-pound note whenever he had a mind to
save the Sacrament-money ; and the doctor had
only to tell her of this case of distressing illness
and that of ailing poverty, when she would slip
a sovereign into his hand, and tout for further
help in a way that betrayed her own. She gave
liberal wages to her servants and secured their

good word whenever they discussed her with
their kind. She kept a generous table and was
not lynx-eyed in the matter of remnants and
perquisites. Her wine was proverbial in the
place, and freely drawn for all comers; her
fruits and flowers and choicer vegetables were
as freely distributed. She made costly presents
once a year when she gave a Christmas-tree ;
and she made them with a certain deprecating
air — a certain apologetic manner— which robbed
them of all * bounce,' and placed them in the
category of tribute rather than donation. Also
she took great pains that they should be perfectly
appropriate. Thus she held the recipients
on all sides, and won her way up the golden
stair with marvellous tact and ability.

Being rubicund and stout, she dressed in the
austere dignity of black ; which somewhat concealed
the exuberance of her lines and toned
down the warmth of her carnations. She never
committed the mistake of wearing colour, not
even in her cap or bonnet ; nor in the warmest
months of summer allowed herself the betraying
liquefaction or vapoury expansion of flimsiness,

in material. She had the softest velvets,
the richest satins, the thickest silks to be had
for love or money ; and she broke up the dead
surface with lavish powdering of jet, which
still further concealed her outlines and made
her inches yet more delusive. In manner she
was noticeably friendly ; but a critic might have
taken exception to a certain overstrained refinement
as too evidently a mask against nature.
As hospitable as an Arab whose gourd hangs on
the outside of his tent, no mouth came to her
amiss ; and, from way-side beggars to Lord
Eustace himself, no meal was withheld from
those who cared to take their share. Her cook
was such as might be expected in the kitchen
of an expert ; and the sans bacon of her hospitality
added to its pleasurable conditions, as
those conditions gave added zest to her sans
bacon. Thus, thanks to her tact, good sense,
discernment of social motives, and strict observance
of certain unwritten laws touching the
implied subserviency of relative inferiority, Mrs.
Splint, of Hindfleet, had conquered a position
in Kingshouse — which else might have held out

against her to the end. And some of the people
of the place made it a point of Christian charity
to forget the cook they had never known, and
to recognize only the widow of a gentleman —
the possessor of a handsome fortune and the
mother of a desirable heiress.

Others, however, did not ; notably Mrs. Clanri-
carde, who had a daughter to marry and no
son for whom to find a wife. Had the sex of
her child been reversed, her action would have
been reversed too. As things were, Anne Asp-line
was in her way, not on her side ; and the
spit was held up as an unconquerable barrier
between their houses. The miner's pick did not
count.

For herself, Anne was pretty enough to have
floated safely on the social wave had there
even been no shining sails of gold to carry her
forward. She was a fair-haired, gentle-mannered
girl, who bore no salient marks of her
maternal ancestry, save that she had square-topped
fingers with broad, flat, opaque, white
nails, and that her ears stood out from her head
like jug-handles. They were not large nor

fleshy nor badly shaped, but they were distressingly
prominent, and, seen from behind,
made her small head more animal than human.
Save these two sign-manuals, stamped by nature
on the living parchment, she had a clear physical
pedigree enough ; and her inheritance contained
more than the mere money which had to come
to her on her mother's death. In temperament
she was languid ; in constitution anaemia. She
had an unappeasable appetite for day-dreaming,
and she was great in the art of doing nothing.
Indolent and unpractical, she never did a hand's
turn for herself that she could get anyone else
to do for her; and she quite understood the
Eastern's contempt for unnecessary physical
exertion. She did not so much as put on her
own shoes and stockings ; had the arrangement
of her hair been left to her, she would have cut
it as short as a charity schoolboy's ; and, had
tapes and buttons been her care, she would
have bristled all over with pins like a sea-egg.
She never worked and rarely played, though
she had been taught embroidery by a mistress
and the piano by a master. From morning tonight

she sat thrown far back in an easy-chair
before the fire in winter, by the open window
in summer — reading novels when she was not
dozing, and dozing when she was not dreaming.
She spent most of her time in devising scenes
and situations for herself, where she would have
a grand part to play and be the favourite of
fortune and the adored of men. Sometimes she
went out as an army-hospital nurse, and nursed
some young earl from wounds to wedlock — for,
indeed, who could resist her, so quaintly beautiful
as she would be in her official costume !
Sometimes she was the heroine of a shipwreck,
when she and the captain were flung ashore
together on a desert island in the tropics, where
they lived elegantly on fruits and furtive love,
on sighs and sunsets and poetry and platonic
philandering, at once ardent and respectful.
Then she saw herself as the belle of a London
season, distinguished by a royal connoisseur, and
made the fashion for the meaner fry. How
often sleep overtook her as she saw herself
mobbed by a frantic crowd of admirers and
enviers in the classic regions of Hyde Park, or
VOL. I. P

followed by a train through the rooms of some
palace where she was the cynosure ! And sometimes,
when her fancy was more modest and
her ambition less exalted, she was only found
in some interesting position by some delightful
stranger — either asleep in the wood, with one
arm thrown above her head, or carrying comforts
to a sick cottager, or bravely rescuing
a child from danger, when, had the thing
been real, she would infallibly have shrieked
and run away, or collapsed altogether. By
which it may be seen that, nice dear girl as
she was, our Anne was decidedly a goose, and
entirely wanting in that kind of common-sense
grip of which her mother had made such good
use. Meanwhile, as all her energy exhaled itself
in these dreams, and left her nothing for action,
the practical upshot was a life of pure indolence
and abortive fancy, wherein she did no good
to anyone, though also as little harm — and was
just a pretty, innocuous, human flower keeping
the ground against words and weeds alike.

Mr. Aspline had had full belief in his wife's
integrity and prudence. All the same she was

only a woman, and whether you say with the
gallant Francis : ' Sou vent fern me varie : Bien
fol qui sey fie ;' or in the dalesman's vernacular,
'Women are kittle cattle to shoe hint,' it comes
to much the same thing. The less power they
have the more chance of justice to others ; and
the more strictly they are held the better in the
end for themselves. Hence, although he had
left the interest of all he possessed to his widow
for her life, he had strictly entailed it on his
daughter and her children; so that the one
should not be enabled to enrich a second husband
beyond her own natural term, and if the
other grew up plain or weak-minded it would
not be to the advantage of any scoundrel to
many her for the use of her money one week and
poison her for full possession the next. If she
did not many and bear children, the money was
disposed of in other ways ; and to neither woman
was left the power of making a will — not even
of her savings. For trustees he had left two
old friends of his — one a Major Campbell and
the other Jack Harford, of Thrift. Major Campbell
had renounced trust from the beginning,

?2

and Jack Harford had died ; but his son Anthony,
who had been travelling in America —
who had, indeed, been living in America for some
years — was on his way home to take up his
father's affairs, and, among other things, to see
about that trusteeship to the Asplines whom he
had known when a lad and remembered with
pleasure now as a man. ' Cooke,' as the irreverent
young scamp used to call Mrs. Aspline,
had always been kind and generous to him and
his ; and little Anne had been the prettiest and
softest and whitest sort of plaything possible —
as much like a powder-puff or a poodle-puppy
as a little girl in white frocks and multitudinous
frills ; good to toss up into the air and catch as
she came down, or to carry on his shoulder,
while she clutched his short, curled hair and
screamed with delight when he kicked like a
donkey or pranced like a horse. Perhaps she
had been a little too much of a cry-baby for a
vigorous young scamp thirteen years her senior;
but, on the whole, he had managed pretty welland
had been able to curb his natural ferocity
to quite commendable patience when the wee

waterspout cried for a mere nothing, and
squeaked for less than nothing. So that, mingled
with regrets for the father whom he had
not seen for so many years, and regrets for the
friends and intimates he was leaving behind,
were pleasant speculations as to how he should
find his old friends ' Cooke ' and pretty, wee
Anne — now, of course, grown up, and come to
the stateliness of Miss Asplinehood.

They, on their side, speculated on the change
time must have worked on him, and came to the
conclusion that, having been so long in America,
he must needs be a perfect barbarian by now —
and what a pity it was that an English gentleman
should so spoil and lower himself!

■ I hope he will not think it necessary to come
here said Mrs. Aspline, looking round her pretty
drawing-room with its ship-load of furniture and
ornaments. ' I would so much rather transact
my business with him by letter or at the lawyer's
; for, of course, he will have that horrid
habit of chewing tobacco and of spitting all over
the place ; and that will be too disgusting, you
know.'

Detestable !' said Anne.

I wonder if lie has been living much with
the Indians V then said Mrs. Aspline. ' Perhaps
he is married to a squaw in beads and a blanket.
One never knows what these wild young men
are up to when they are once out of one's
sight.'

< No,' said Anne, visions of Lara and the Corsair
making a botch-potch of ideas with Prince
Florizel and the Reverend John Creed. ' It is
dreadful to think of,' she added, with a little
shudder.

And if he brings his wife home with him, and
she carries her babies in a basket at her back,
how very painful it will all be V continued Mrs.
Aspline, who was fond of reading books of
travel.

6 1 wonder Mr. Harford let him stay away so
long,' said Anne, who was the freest if the most
indolent She alive. Mrs. Aspline did not give
her even advice, still less did she attempt
discipline or coercion — which, by the way, was
not needed. Her languid independence naturally
inclined the fair-haired dreamer to the

strictest kind of rule for others. * If the first
Mrs. Harford had lived, it would have been different.
She would have brought him home long
ago,' she added.

1 Yes,' said Mrs. Aspline ; ' a mother has more
power in a family than any father can have-better
lose a dozen fathers than one mother ;
for even the best men are but poor creatures ina
house compared to women.'

She spoke with that curious conviction of
superiority by the grace of sex characteristic of
the women of to-day. She had been made by
her husband, but she believed that she had been
the sole architect of her fortunes, while her
master and his thousands had been but the hodman
with his bricks.

Yes,' said Anne, who would have said ' yes '
to just the contrary proposition.

It was the saddest pity when the first poor
Mrs. Harford died !' said Mrs. Aspline. ' If she
had lived, she would not have let Bonny marry
that old major of hers' — a man just fifteen years
older than his wife, and making the best husband
to be found within the four seas — ' and, if

she had lived, this young Anthony would have
been kept from ruin. The second wife was a
poor creature, and cared only for her own.'

By-the-by, Anthony is not so very young,
mother,' said Anne. ' He is thirteen years older
than I am

'And you are over twenty?' asked her
mother.

Yes, last February ; so that he is thirty-threes


'Old enough at all events to know better,'
said Mrs. Aspline.

He may not be quite so bad as we think,'
said Anne, as a reflection rather than a remonstrance.
' You see, we do not know anything
against him, do we, mother ! And he may not
have been living with the Indians. All Americans
do not

'He cannot be worth much to have kept
away in a half-civilized place like that for
all these years,' said Mrs. Aspline, a little
severely. 'You know they are not like us,
Anne. They are not gentlefolks, like the
English.'

No, I know,' said Anne. ' But perhaps he
has not forgotten all his English ways. He may
not be so bad as the rest

6 Well, as you say, he may not,' returned her
mother, making the most of a concession which
she conscientiously could. ' But I have always
my doubts of young men who prefer foreign
parts to home ; and I have seen something of
life by now.'

1 Yes,' said Anne, with her customary air of
non-combative submission, by which she never
fought over differences of opinion, but always
kept her own.

This quiet tenacity was the form which her
mother's shrewd resoluteness of aim had taken
in her. It was the same with a difference, like
the ' alternate generations ' of a Medusa or the
tadpole which precedes the frog.

4 I only hope he will make a good man of
business if he decides on continuing my trustee,'
said her mother. ■ If not I shall appoint
another.'

4 Why not at first V asked Anne.

4 Well, no ; I should scarcely like to do that

-without giving him a chance,' replied Mrs.
Aspline. * You see, Jack Harford was poor Mr.
Aspline's best friend, and I would not like to
throw a slight on his son all at once and without
good grounds.'

No,' said Anne ; ' that would not be fair.'
And here the conversation came to a sudden
standstill by the prosaic interruption of luncheon.
Afterwards, when Anne's customary siesta was
over, the carriage, with its showy bays, and a
drive through the village and so on to the
moor, gave a new turn to their thoughts, and
the ladies ceased to discuss Anthony Harford
and his hypothetical misdemeanours. They
turned instead to what was on Mrs. Aspline's
part a rather acrimonious commentary on Lady
Elizabeth's extraordinary craze for that dreadful
lout, that Caleb Stagg. For the two were
to be seen at some little distance off the
main road, she on horseback and he walking
by her side, evidently in earnest conversation
together.

1 I consider it downright indecent,' said
Mrs. Aspline a little hotly. * Such as Caleb

Stagg is no fit companion for an earl's daughter,
put it how you will ; and Lady Elizabeth,
good creature as she is, lets herself down too
much.'

1 She has not quite enough pride,' said Anne y
who, for all her social admiration of Lady
Elizabeth, thought, with her mother — she had a
great deal too much condescension when it
came to consorting with miners' sons.

i If the creature was tolerably well educated
I'd not be the one to say no,' said Mrs. Aspline.
'But such a thing as he is, I would not take him
to clean the boots and knives in my house ! And
here is an earl's daughter as thick as thieves
with him ! And his father only a miner, and his
mother a pit-brow lass.'

He is not fit company for her,' said Anne.
It is far better when people stay in their own
class.'

Far,' said her mother. Then she < remembered
herself as she would have phrased it,,
and her peony-like cheeks grew a yet livelier
red. 'Now there is myself,' she went on to
say, answering her own thought ; ' I was a poor

officer's daughter' — he had been a colour-sergeant
; but let that pass — < so, of course, I was
a lady. But when poor papa died I had to
go out and get my own living, as we all had.
I was lady-housekeeper till your father took a
fancy to me and married me.' — Oh, cooke !
cooke ! Thou who dished up those nice little
dinners which warmed the cockles of Mr. As-line's
heart, so that he made the conductor
thereof his lawful wife ! — ' But even I hold myself
not quite equal to the rest, because I had
to work for my living. And that is always
against a lady.'

4 It should not be,' put in Anne, with dutiful
care.

It is though,' said her mother. * But, Lord
alive, if I am not quite the tip-top thing, what
is this trash V she exclaimed with real passion.

No ; what, indeed ?' said Anne.

And consorting there with Lady Elizabeth as
if he was her lapdog,' cried Mrs. Aspline.

It is a pity,' said Anne.

And then she blushed a little ruefully, and
wished that her mother had not spoken quite so

vehemently, for Lady Elizabeth was so good —
and, being an earl's daughter, she was justified
in any eccentricity it pleased her to commit.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE ANGEL OF HEALING.

Lady Elizabeth had been from home, and it
was during her absence that the sorry chapter
of history already recorded had been transacted
between Caleb and Estelle. Had she been at
home to check and advise, she might have
saved her poor, ungainly friend the pain which
attends unfruitful effort. She would have
shown him the insecurity of Mrs. Clanricarde's
method, the selfishness of her desires, and the
impracticability of his own dreams. For how
could any good girl, pledged to one beloved,
marry another even for the sake of her family
and his money ? The instinct which denies the
body where the love is not — which forbids

that ' lips should meet over a gulf so wide as
separates heart from heart,' is the wholesome
one — though it may sometimes topple over on to
the other side and find justification by its own
excess in what the law refuses for the first part
and punishes for the second. And Estelle had
been right, not only in view of her own purity
but for Caleb's future happiness, when she
virtually refused to marry him, though that
refusal had taken the form of an appeal to his
generosity — making his very love consent to his
renunciation.

All this Lady Elizabeth had thought, and
some of it she had said this very morning
when she had been over to see Estelle, and
had learned from her the whole story as it
it stood. Sorry as she was for the pain that
had flowed like a river of bitterness among
them all, she would not condemn — not even
poor, distracted, worldly-minded Mrs. Clanri-
carde, who honestly held the arrangement of
her daughter's rich marriage as a mother's
most pressing duty. She had acted only
according to her lights when she had offered

Estelle to Caleb Stagg. In her mind his fortune
redeemed his person, and his wealth
condoned all offences against manner ; and
Estelle would do far better to marry Caliban
with a gold-mine on Mount Setebos than the shipwrecked
Ferdinand who had lost his coronet
among the rocks. And Lady Elizabeth had
mastered that most difficult rule of all in the
philosophy of charity— that of judging of a
person from his own standpoint, and looking
at life through his windows.

Thinking all these things, and full of care
and perplexity for those she loved, whose sorrows
she had made her own, Lady Elizabeth
had turned her horse's head towards the moor,
and was cantering • briskly over its breezy
breadth, when she saw poor Caleb moving
mournfully among the gorse and heather, thinking
he was looking for plants and creatures, as
was his wont, but not seeing even the broad-leaved
sun-dew at his feet — nor conscious that
the lark was singing overhead — nor that the
sun was shining down on the earth like that
song translated into glory. He was conscious

of nothing that was about him. He was thinking
only of Estelle; of the difficulties of her
position with her mother ; of their pecuniary
entanglements ; of the hopelessness of her love
for Charlie Osborne, and his own inability to
help her — always with that dull pain at his
heart, like some physical smart for which is no
anodyne known of man.

When Lady Elizabeth saw him, she rode onto
the moor and came up to him. Even at the
distance at which he was she could see something
of his grief. That unlovely face was a
mirror, blurred and distorted by inferior workmanship,
but expressive ; and the kindly heart
of the earl's daughter, who cared for humanity
more than for art, and believed in sympathy
rather than in sestheticism, was moved to more
than ordinary compassion — to the desire to
relieve and the wish to share.

At the same time, it is only just to say that,
with all her deep insight into essential qualities,
the woman in her understood and sympathized
with Estelle's physical repulsion for the man ;
and, with all her theoretic and practical deino-

VOL. I. Q

crack, had Caleb Stagg, the miner's son, made
love to her as her equal, she would have withered
him into a heap of dead ashes by the lightning
of her scorn, and would herself have
recognized more clearly than she did now the
difference between condescension and amalgamation.
As things were, she had no need to
draw these finer lines. His human love had
gone to Estelle ; to her was given that pure
worship which honours the heart that holds it
even more than the feet at which it is offered.

Caleb, mooning along, his eyes on the ground,
seeing nothing of all they looked on, did not
hear the tread of the horse, softened as it was
by the moss and heather ; and not until Lady
Elizabeth was by his side, and had called him
by his name, did he know that she was near
him. He started when she drew up, leaning
from her saddle and offering him her hand — her
beautiful face a little flushed with her ride — her
large grey eyes sweet and mild and full of kindness
— her tall, slim figure, at once so graceful
and so dignified, looking, as it always did, at its
best in her riding-habit — and in her whole attitude

and over her whole person that nameless
charm of mingled tenderness and nobility, lovingness
and dignity, which made her appear to
some like a maiden queen and to others like a
mother-angel.

Lady Elizabeth ! Ah ! but I am main glad
to see you!' cried Caleb with simple fervour,
provincial as he always was when deeply moved
or taken unawares. He was like some stiff-screwed
telescope that wanted a little time
and management before it could be properly
adjusted.

I recognized you from the road, and came
across to speak to you,' said the lady.

1 Thank you, Lady Elizabeth,' he answered.
That was kind of you. But then you always
are kind, Lady Elizabeth.'

6 Not more so than others,' she said, with a
smile.

1 / think so,' he returned, with that humble
kind of gratitude which means so much suffering
and pain. ' There is only one Lady
Elizabeth Inchbold in the world,' he added
simply.

Q2

'Have you learned to flatter during my
absence V she asked, trying to speak lightly.

1 Nay he answered very sadly, looking into
the distance in that far-off way which shows a
mastery of preoccupation the very reverse of
flattering. ' I have learned nothing so pleasant,
Lady Elizabeth. I have learned only pain since
you left.'

I am sorry for that,' she returned, knowing
well what he meant.

But, among other sweet traits of good breeding,
she had that of never forestalling a confession
nor checking an anecdote by saying
that she already knew what was coming.

6 1 have missed you, Lady Elizabeth,' he then
said, looking into her face. 'When you go
away it is as if you somehow took my guardian
angel along with you. Things go all to wrongs
with me, and I feel as if I had lost my compass
to steer by.'

Have they been going wrong V she asked.
6 1 am sorry to hear that.'

Ay, that they have !' he answered. ' I am
not one to cry out if my finger aches, and I

think that the most of us get in the world much
as we deserve ; but sometimes life is hard, and
one scarce knows which road to take. All seem
to lead to muck and mire alike !'

The round, red-lidded eyes filled up with
tears, and the loose, clumsy mouth quivered.
Men, who can bear torture without a groan,
break down in the presence of a loving-natured
woman who feels for them, and whom they can
trust.

'* For the moment only,' said Lady Elizabeth
softly. ' The darkest cloud, you know, has its
silver lining. Surely no symbol was truer !'

1 So they say, and may be it is true ; but to
be offered a crown that will not fit, and to hold
in your hand a dove that will not bide — to have
a palace for your soul that is nought but a
cloud and that fades away as you look — it's
long looking for the silver lining there !' he said,
a little passionately and more despairingly.
And that's what has come to me, Lady Elizabeth,
since you left your home !'

1 am grieved it has all happened so,' she
said. ' I was afraid it would, from what she

told me, and from what I saw the mother
wished. And I knew she would not consent.
How could she ? Ask yourself, Mr. Stagg, how
could she?'

Nay, as you say, Lady Elizabeth, how could
she !' he repeated, the ellipsis fully intelligible
to each. ' She had no choice but to say me
nay ; and I was a fool for letting myself dream
of aught different''

6 If you had thought — if you had reflected — '
said the lady gently.

'Yes, yes, I know,' he answered humbly.
But, believe me, Lady Elizabeth, I would not
have given in — for I know her value and myself
too well — but that I was so sore tempted. It
was all right, they said as ought to have known ;
and I had only to be patient and hopeful for
just the first, and then all things would right
themselves. But it was a false promise ; and
when she came out, so white and pitiful, I
learned the truth I ought never to have let
slip

1 You must forgive even her who caused you
all this needless pain,' said Lady Elizabeth

gently. ' Poor woman ! She is just distracted
with anxiety, and does not know which way to
turn. And she might have deceived herself.
Her very desire that this thing should come to
pass might have made her believe it possible.
Our own hopes and wishes do deceive us so
much !'

I But she could only desire it for the sake of
father's money,' said Caleb without bitterness
or excitement, simply stating a fact. ' I knew
it all along ; but I hoped, as fools will.'

They are in great straits,' said Lady Elizabeth.
■ Mr. Clanricarde has made an unlucky
speculation and lost almost all they had.'

And I have nothing of my own,' said Caleb ;
and not a trade at my fingers' ends to make
anything by. If I had thousands, I would give
her to the last farthing, and be proud that I had
been able to help her.'

I I am sure of that,' said Lady Elizabeth, looking
at him with eyes as soft as a dove's, for
surely a fairer soul than this of the ungainly
omadhaun's were never lodged in human body ;
and friendship does not demand beauty of person

nor grace of manner, as does love. It
demands mainly goodness and the assurance
of stability ; and of these Caleb had large possession.
' And, indeed,' she added, still those soft,
dove-like eyes on his, ' the only way in which
we can forget our own pain is by sympathy
with others — losing self in unselfishness

Yes,' said Caleb.

'And we are only good according to our
trials,' she continued. ' It is easy to be generous
and unselfish, and all that, if we are not put to
the test. When we are, how we bear ourselves
decides our worth.'

Yes,' said Caleb again.

And nursing unavailing sorrow is but a poor
way,' she said, still so gentle but so direct.

That is it,' he sighed.

1 And jealousy is even a worse,' she said.

Ay, that is it !' was his reply.

Then there was a short pause between them,
when Lady Elizabeth said, rather suddenly :

'Of course the best thing would be if Mr.
Osborne could marry as soon as possible, and
so, at least, save Estelle.'

Caleb blenched just a trifle. It might have
been that a gadfly had stung him or a cock-chafer
had struck him. It was no more than
just the sudden curve of a surprise.

Yes he said, a little huskily.

But he cleared his throat as one who wished
to make his voice resonant.

■ I do not see how that can be, however,' the
lady continued ; ' for he does not make money.
He does not sell his pictures well, and those
are the best things he does. Somehow, he has
either not struck the right vein or he has exceptionally
ill luck, for his pictures are badly
hung when they are accepted and seldom or
never sold. I am always hoping his luck will
turn, for he is really very clever and his work is
above the average.'

I am no judge, Lady Elizabeth said Caleb,
still husky in spite of his efforts, and finding
speech difficult.

No,' she answered ; ' perhaps not ; but, take
it from me, they deserve more recognition than
they get. They are really very good — though,
of course, they are not of extreme merit like

any of the masters. However, I hope I have
done him some good. A very rich man I met
with when I was in London — a Mr. Smythe
Smith — is going to have his new house in
Piccadilly painted in the modern style of continuous
decoration ' — Caleb made his round
eyes rounder than ever — ' that is, the rooms are
to be painted, some with birds and some with
flowers and some with figures and landscapes
and things like that — the walls, you know ; not
papered, but painted like pictures.' (' Oh !' said
Caleb.) ' And I recommended him to employ
Charlie Osborne. It would be a costly matter,
and Charlie would make a very good thing by
it, and perhaps that would be a nest-egg for his
marriage.'

'That was kind,' said Caleb, turning away
his head. There are times when the soul
would fain hide itself even from its guardian
angel !

But I do not know when Mr. Smythe Smith's
house will be ready for decoration,' continued
Lady Elizabeth ; ' meantime, something ought
to be done.'

Yes,' said Caleb.

A sudden thought seemed to strike his friend.
She looked at the homely face before her, still
a little averted — looked, as if measuring something
in her own mind.

So she was. She was measuring the extent
of Caleb Stagg's unselfishness and nobleness*
Then she spoke.

4 1 wonder if your father would like such a
room at Redhill V she said. ' Does he care for
modern fashions ? Would he care for a decorated
room in the new style V

I don't know,' said Caleb, after a pause. ' He
might.'

He could scarcely speak, and his face was
ashy pale.

And you V said Lady Elizabeth. ' You
would not oppose it if your father liked the
idea V

Over that pale face passed a spasm of
acute pain. Then a sudden rush of blood
made the rose in Lady Elizabeth's breast pale
by contrast.

'No,' he said firmly. « I would try to persuade

father to have it. It would be to her
good !'

God bless you ! God bless you !' said Lady
Elizabeth fervently, laying her hand on Caleb's
shoulder and looking in his face with eyes that
were as a caress on his. ' You are as I thought
you were, Mr. Stagg — a true, good, noble-hearted
man — and one of whose friendship I am
proud

Do not say that, Lady Elizabeth,' he answered
humbly. ' What else could I do when
I love her and she is not for me V

It was just at this juncture that Mrs. Aspline
saw these two apparently mismatched associates,
and pronounced with so much asperity on their
friendship. That is the way in which the
world always judges things unknown ; and to
condemn does raise one so many inches higher
in one's own estimation and so pleasantly
smoothes down the Pharisaical silk within
us!

Soon after this, Lady Elizabeth rode off to the
Dower House, where she ought to have been
an hour ago ; and Caleb trudged back over the

moor and on to Redhill, where he was eager
to fasten the knot his good resolve had tied.
His heart felt lighter, and life had a brighter
outlook than an hour agone, and nature had
once more her echo in his soul. He heard the
birds in the bushes, and he noted how the butterflies
circled in the air. His eye took in all
the flowers and plants at his feet — all the
lovely cloudlets in the sky — and his ear noted
each cry and note of the hidden creatures. He
would not think of himself. He would not see
that he was helping his rival to his happiness at
his own cost. He resolutely fixed his mind on
Estelle and her joy rand more than once he had
to clear his eyes of their gathering mists when
he pictured her sweet face smiling into his and
her soft hands held out to him as she thanked
him for his help.

'And maybe then she will give a warm
thought and take me into her heart,' he mused.
God bless her ! the Lord love her ! ay, at any
cost to myself

1 And God bless that good honest fellow !*
said Lady Elizabeth half-aloud, as she rode

along the lanes and thought of that unlovely
omadhaun as the hero he was, and saw how
shapely was the spirit which inhabited so ungainly
a form.

CHAPTER XV.

PROFFERED MANNA.

Lady Elizabeth's scheme of finding work for
Charlie Osborne, by painting the walls of the
great drawing-room at Redhill, was hugely
approved of by Miles Stagg when the thing
was proposed by Caleb, who half doubted his
father's consent.

■ Nay, I care naught for fashion,' he said with
his big fat laugh, when Caleb shot his first bolt
from behind the shelter of his stalking-horse.
'I'm not much of a fashionable man myself; but
what her ladyship says is right, that is right tome
; and what she says ought to be done, that
has to be done where I'm captain of the gang,
or I'll know the reason why. If she likes to

have the walls all a-painted with dicky-birds
and turnip-tops, it's all one to me so long as she
is suited. It's for her eyes in the long run,
not mine, I reckon ; and the long run has most
claim.'

Then he chuckled and grew red in the face
for joy of his dancing, light-limbed thoughts ;
and Caleb grew redder still for shame of his
and them. But of what use to remonstrate
with density interpenetrated with obstinacy?
To let it stumble forward in its own way and
to go on our own path unheeding, is the only
wise course when we do not wish to spend time
and strength on futilities. Granite is no more
to be patted into a new form than a dense-witted,
obstinate person is to be stirred by
reason or demonstration. So Caleb knew, and
on that line he lived. His father had made up
his mind that Lady Elizabeth Inchbold was to
be his daughter-in-law. She was not only his
Abracadabra, and the Name of Power to which
he yielded instant submission, but she was his
Hope fulfilled, his Ambition impersonated ; and
no besom ever wielded by truth and impossibility

together could sweep him out of the fool's
paradise where he had niche himself so securely.
That she should have proposed this
thing was but another proof where so many had
already accumulated. What to her were the
walls of the great drawing-room at Kedhill
unless she had it in view to spend her life in
looking at them ? Had Caleb told him the
truth, he would not have believed it for the first
part ; and, if he had, then would he have refused
his consent for the second. He would give his
money for her ladyship's own pleasure, but for
the sake of her friends, nay, he would be hanged
first.

The father consented with his broad Pants
humour; but the mother opposed a
feeble, fatuous negative. This notable scheme
of wall-decoration did not smile at her. She
was sure she did not know how all the furniture
and things were to be moved, she said in
her weak-knees, lachrymose way. She hadn't
so much strength in her arms and back as she
used to have, and she would be sorry to see
good things like theirs spoilt with mishandling.

VOL. I. R

And she thought the walls did well enough
with the paper that was on them, now that it
was there. It had cost a powerful sight of
money when it was first put up, and it was as
good as new — for they never used the big
drawing-room, except sometimes on a Sunday to
give it an airing, or when they wanted a fire in to
keep the damp out. And, though she didn't quite
like that girl and bairn, the rest of the paper
was gravely pretty. Them roses and poppies
were like life ; and she was never tired of them
blue-bottles, just like what she had picked so
many a time in the corn-fields when a lass ; and
it was a pity, that it was, to strip it from the
walls for a new fad that, maybe, wouldn't look
so well as it when all was said and done.

So she objected in her maundering, monotonous
way, till Miles came down on her with a
heavy back-hander : after which, poor soul, she
subsided into snaffle and silence on the sofa, and
the voice of her complaining was heard no more
in the land.

Her opposition had, however, its customary
effect of strengthening Miles in his resolve. He

had not taken a bankrupt mine in faith on his
broad shoulders and made his fortune in consequence,
to be crossed by his own wife. Let
her mind her own business and he would mind
his, he said ; and if he chose to give her the
finest drawing-room in the county, that was his
doing, not hers. All that she had to do was to
take what was given her and make no bones
about it; else he'd soon let her see who was
master ; and now she knew !

These scenes were too frequent to cause much
commotion when they occurred. Nancy was
one of those women who are easily subdued,
but can never be taught. Her man was her
master, and she knew it — had always had to
recognize it — had lived for the last six-and-twenty
years under his rule, and for all that
time had not been allowed to call her soul her
own. And yet she could not give spontaneous
submission. She had to be dinged and longed
into obedience, according to her husband's
phraseology. She had not strength nor sense
enough to yield of her own free will and before
that inevitable scene of brutality and pitiful

r2

tears had taken place. But then, if she had had
strength and sense enough for that voluntary
bending to tyrannous power, she would have
been probably able to circumvent what she
could not avoid, and to slip from under what
she could not bend.

In this case, then, as in every other, neither
her fatuous objections nor her silent snaffle on
the sofa moved the rampant will of her iron-fitted
husband any more than the whip of the
rain on the glass ; and Caleb was ordered to
write now at once to Mr. Charles Osborne to
offer him the job at his own valuation. Miles
did not care what it cost ; and it might go into
the hundreds or into the thousands for what he
had a mind. In truth, secretly he was glad of
the opportunity for spending. These lily-livered
converts of his — this wife and son who were not
worth their meat — never wanted naught, as he
used to complain to Jim Fisher ; and what was
the use of a pot of money if it was to lie buried
in the croft, as one might say, and 'not a body
of them all to see the colour of the gold or to
profit by it, though it were never so little !

Wherefore, let the great drawing-room, which
was still spick-and-span new, be redecorated
according to Caleb's wish, young Mr. Osborne's
fancy, and Lady Elizabeth's desire. And Jim's
sententious : ' I'll see ye in t' union yet, Miles,'
went for nothing, if not for an extra puff of wind
to the already well-filled sails.

It was a difficult letter for Caleb to write.
Looked at in army light he would, it was a main
sore task. He was not fond of writing letters
at any time — no man with his up-bringing is —
but to write to Charlie Osborne, who held himself
as high as Lord Royne or the earl himself,
who loved that beautiful star of his life and
light of his dreams, and who was in turn loved
by her — to write to him, offering what Miles
called this job that he might be well paid, and
so brought nearer to the goal of his desire —
yes, in all ways it was a difficult thing to do for
one so painfully conscious as Caleb Stagg. The
sheets of good note-paper he spoiled by unfit
beginnings, uncomfortable endings and imperfect
middles, would have made poor Nancy's
grizzled hair stand on end in horror at the waste,

had she seen it. At last, however, the tortured
scribe got the thing done ; and, after all his
false starts, wrote what he might have written
at the outset — a simple, plain, unaffected proposal,
based on Lady Elizabeth's recommendation.


When he received this letter, Charlie Osborne
exploded first into laughter and then into wrath.
The gentleman in him revolted at the thought
of working for Miles Stage's pleasure ; and his
pride took fire when he realized the indignity of
taking money from such a brute. He, Charlie
Osborne, to be indebted to a coarse, rude miner
for the means of living — to be paid by him ashe,
the miner, had once been paid by his employers
— he a gentleman and his employer a
boor of the lowest kind ! He got up and looked
at himself in the glass, pulling down his coat-skirt
and settling his collar and cravat. It was
a curiously instinctive movement — the half-unconscious
expression of his very conscious pride
for few families of long descent are more
conscious of superiority of condition than are
the sons and daughters of the country clergy.

Their place is one of moral influence ; they have
direct authority in schools and choirs, and in
other matters as well ; their example is noteworthy,
and they are under the same inducement
to behave well as are the confessedly
aristocratic — the father's office standing for
family traditions. To the poor, with whom
their business chiefly lies, they are as noble as
the noblest ; and as all things in life are relative
social superiority among the rest — the clergyman's
son and the belted knight stand equally
high in their several places — which is all that is
wanted to ensure the feeling of relative equality.

Hence Charlie Osborne, though only a poor
artist who must work to live, as the son of a
gentleman and himself a gentleman held himself
in his right to break into sardonic laughter
passing on to wrath, when he received Caleb's
letter and realized its conditions.

To work for those mere brutes ! To put his
delicate thoughts and subtle fancies into a house
tenanted by creatures with no more perception
of art and beauty than so many human pigs
littered in a golden stye ! No, he could not, and

he would not. He was an artist, not a tradesman
nor a hodman ; and he could not degrade
himself to work for those whose eyes, unturned
of their grossness — eyes which no euphrasy of
refinement had ever touched — would not understand
the essential meaning of what they saw.
Put out of court the fact that the younger
scoundrel (all undesirable men are scoundrels to
gentlemen in a rage) had dared to raise his
insolence so high as to Estelle : he had perhaps
atoned for his insult in the best way he could ;
and perhaps Mrs. Clanricarde had been more to
blame than he — she must have been, indeed, by
what Estelle had said — well, let that all pass,
though it was difficult to forget it, and almost
beyond his power to forgive ; yet, going back on
the mere crass stupidity and ignorance of the
creatures themselves, he could not do it — he
would not — sorely as he needed funds at this
moment, and dark as was his horizon.

Tempest-tossed, revolted, passionate, inflamed,
he debated within himself all that evening, and
carried the thought like a fire in his brain
through all the night ; and in the morning he

had come to no definite decision, no absolute
assertion of yea or nay. He, too, wrote and destroyed
half-a-dozen letters, some accepting,
some refusing ; and then he suddenly decided on
going in person to Redhill. He should be better
able to judge when he had seen the place ; and
if there were capabilities perhaps it was his duty
to utilize them. One never knows where one
may do good ; and he should be sorry if he had
neglected an opportunity for spreading the
religion of true taste. Whereat, warmed by this
sudden outblaze of artistic philanthropy, Charlie
took his hat and sketching-book and walked off
to Redhill to interview his would-be patrons.

When he came to the house and was ushered
into the great drawing-room his heart sank and
his disgust swelled. It was revolting to see
this mingled mass of magnificence and hideousness
— pitiable to note the inharmoniousness, the
incongruity, everywhere alike. Over the house
and the inmates, and in every fact and circumstance,
reigned the same barbarous confusion
and inartistic misfit — the same crying want of
taste and almost profligate expenditure. How

could he throw his soul on such a rag-heap ?
Fancy — painting a frieze of stately peacocks for
people who could have lived with this gaudy
wall-paper of execrable design, where a simpering
sylph, with mauve-coloured flesh, ogled a
lumpish Cupid, all knobs as if made out of
apples — sylph and Cupid repeated a dozen times
in a couple of breadths, with the same eternal
bouquet and sprawling garland of red and blue
and yellow flowers, bright enough to give a
sensitive brain inflammation on the spot ! What
would such people think of a dead-gold
ground behind delicate traceries of maidenhair
ferns, where not two fronds were alike ? What
would they say to a dado of ebony inlaid with
mother-of-pearl and « pierre dure ' in arabesques
and stiff, conventionalized, geometrical forms?
It would be emphatically casting pearls before
swine, thought Charlie Osborne, who appraised
his own art as the highest outcome of human
intellect, and himself as by no means the wooden
spoon among the candidates for honours.

And he was thinking this when the door burst
open with a rude kind of bang, and Miles Stagg,

with Caleb and Nancy at his heels, came noisily
into the room.

Well, Mr. Osborne, sir, so you're taking
stock, are ye V shouted Miles, in that way he
had as if speaking to a deaf world.

I was looking at your room,' returned Charlie,
glacially polite.

It's Lady Elizabeth's whim laughed Miles,
showing all his teeth ; * and we're bound to
follow my lady's lead, ain't we, Caleb, lad?'
slapping his son's shoulder.

I'd like to do as Lady Elizabeth wishes,' said
Caleb, stiffly, meaning rebuke ; and Charlie, who-was
what the Scotch call ' leg at the uptak','
wondered what the deuce was underneath this
odd jocularity and constrained reply. But not
the wildest of the speculations which shot like
4 northern streamers ' through his brain came
near the presumptuous truth, as Miles Stagg had
conceived it and as Caleb repudiated.

Well,' said Miles after a pause, ' and what
may you be thinking of the job, Mr. Osborne ?
Cost's no question.' He visibly swelled with
pride as he said this, his thumbs in his waistcoat

pockets and his big coarse fingers playing
a jubilant tattoo on the flaring flowers of the
embroidered satin. ' I've enough and to spare
for my lady's fancies and thy work, my lad ' —
here he lapsed into his ordinary familiarity of
tone — ' and thou'lt not put a wrong price, were
it ever so.'

Charlie's handsome face flushed ; his small,
cleanly-moulded head and finely-cut features
wore the air and look of royal disdain. The
money was a temptation, as he had before admitted,
but gained at such a price — by association
with such dreadful creatures — by work on
such a really 'awful' house — it would be too
dearly bought. He was not of the kind to seethe
fun of the position nor to make capital out
•of its humour. He was only disgusted with its
vulgarity ; and he scarcely cared to conceal what
he felt.

I fear that to begin at all in the room will
entail too many alterations,' he said coldly.
These curtains must be changed. This
blue will not suit my scheme of colour, and
it is too hard and crude in itself; and this yellow

border is inadmissable, even as things are

1 Lo ye now !' said Miles, all in amaze. < And
I, who thought these curtains tip-topers ! They
cost a power of money, so they should be something
good. And th' stuff on them is of the
best — that I know.'

He rubbed the heavy silk between his finger
and thumb as affectionately as a man pulls a
dog's ears.

'The material is handsome, but the colour is
bad,' said Charlie with a shudder.

Lo ye now !' said Miles again, screwing up
his eyes a little ominously, and making a deprecatory
kind of click with his tongue.

'And the carpet will not do,' continued
Charlie. ' This fiery red will kill everything.
And the chairs and sofas are not right; the
shapes and coverings are both wrong.'

1 Ay ! them's all wrong too V said Miles, with
unwonted quietness.

Quite wrong,' said Charlie, deceived by
appearances and giving the reins to his hobbyhorse.
' The ottomans, too, are just impossible —
and that modern china is dreadful. And you

cannot have those heavy cut-glass chandeliers.
You cannot have gas in the room at all.'

He grew warmer as he went on — his artistic
taste was so thoroughly outraged.

1 Oh, Miles, man alive, it's just a wicked
waste of money !' cried Nancy, unable to contain
herself longer. * All this here, that's as good
as new, as a body might say, and as fine as five-pence,
to be carted off for a whim that's to dono
good to anyone. It's just shameful, and I'll
say it were it ever so. It'll not bring a blessing
on thee, Miles, to scatter thy brass in this wild
gate, and so I tell thee.'

'Nay, but I think the wife is about right,'
said Miles, speaking very slowly, for he was
truly aghast at the wholesale condemnation of
his grand room. He and the local upholsterer
had furnished it between them; for he had
loyally done his best to give all of his own a
lift, and neither cost nor material had been
spared. And now to have it touched with this
cruel spear that blackened and blighted wherever
it struck. It was more than he could stand :
and Nancy, woman, was about right. The

paper he would not stand out for, nor, for the
matter of that, would she. She had never liked
the mauve-fleshed young woman with nothing
on but a scarf in a bow above her head and
in a line down her shoulders ; and that lumpy
Cupid, made of apples strung together and as
naked as when he was born, had always shocked
her sense of what a well-conditioned bairn
should be. But when it came to the curtains
and the carpets, the sofas and the chairs, that
huge cut-glass chandelier with its drops like
diamonds, the tables and ornaments — in fact, to
every individual thing in the big room — then
Miles himself paused and faltered before he
took the leap. He did not care about the
money the change would cost. Quite the
contrary. What he did care for was the slap in
his face in the matter of taste, and the condemnation
of things he had learned not only to
connect with his prosperity, but to regard as
the dumb witnesses of his own merit.

4 It is a clean sweep, anyhow,' he went on to
say, his colour rising as he spoke. ' We have
been content and pretty proud, Nancy and me

and the lad, with what we have had ; and I
don't like the looks of turning one's back on all
of one's own for the word of a stranger who
doesn't feel with us— and maybe has other
thoughts,' he added darkly. * So I think, Mr.
Osborne, sir, we'll sleep on this matter before we
make a serious calculation.'

'Of course, that is just as you wish,' said
Charlie coldly.

« Well, you see, I'm a little out of breath and
flabbergasted ; and I'm not so sure as I'd like
all these changes when made ; and I'd like to
see a proof before I paid,' said Miles. ' One
doesn't do so well to give oneself up too soon
into the hands of a stranger as has other
thoughts,' he repeated.

Oh !' said Charlie, with all a gentleman's
pride and artist's disdain in his voice and
manner ; ' if you do not think I understand my
own business, we had better not say any more
about it. In such a thing as this I must have
carte-blanche or none at all

I don't know what you mean about carts nor
barrows neither,' shouted Miles, thoroughly

nettled ; ' but if you think you are a-going to
ride roughshod over me, young man, you are
mistaken, Mr. Osborne, sir, and so I tell you.
It is me as pays, and me as has to be agreeable
to this, that, and t'other — not for a stranger to
come in and order shifts and gangs, and set the
seams as he has a mind, and never a body to
say him nay. Not if I know it — and now you
know.'

Whisht, Miles— whisht, honey !' said Nancy
in a terrified voice.

'Hold hard, father,' said Caleb with unwonted
decision.

Nay, but I'll have my say if I die for it !'
said Miles, his voice raised to its angry bellow.
His thumbs were thrust deeper into his waistcoat
pockets, and the tattoo played by his coarse
fingers was no longer spread and jocund, but
with hard, jerky, irritated taps — his fingers
coming down on the flaring flowers with blows
like miniature sledge-hammers.

You have said enough,' said Charlie. * Nothing
you could offer me would induce me to
accept this work, and I wish you good-day.'

VOL. I. S

And good-day to you, sir, for a jackadandy,
if ever there was one !' shouted Miles ; while
Nancy besought the young gentleman to take a
snack, and Caleb went with him to the door,
saying he must not mind what father had said
father's bark was worse than his bite, and Mr.
Osborne was not to feel offended — he knew so
much better than father, he could afford to let
him rave.

He spoke with so much good feeling — with
the dignity even of earnestness and sincerity —
that Charlie could not but recognize the poor
scoundrel's partial value ; and, though he went
off in a fluff and a fume, he thought that, after
all, worse men were in the world than Caleb
Stagg, who, creature as he was, was yet a good
fellow in his own detestable way.

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW IT CAME ABOUT.

Still boiling with indignation — in a fluff and a
fume all through — Charlie Osborne walked onto
the Dower House, where he hoped to see
Lady Elizabeth and Estelle. Since the collapse
of her notable scheme for her daughter's endowment
with unhappiness and wealth, Mrs.
Clanricarde had in a manner let go the reins,
laid down the whip, and given the girl her head.
She had more liberty because less care was
taken of her ; Mrs. Clanricarde feeling, as people
do who are disappointed, that if she wanted to
go to destruction she must, and it was too hard a
task to restrain her. This phase, however, would
not last long. It was only the first inevitable

S2

reaction following on baffled endeavour. Very
soon the managing, . putting-to-rights nature
of a interesse femme would reassert itself, and
then the slackened rein would be all the more
sharply drawn because of this temporary relaxation.
Meanwhile Estelle, being but a maid of
mortal mould, made good use of her increased
liberty ; and Charlie Osborne profited. Means
of meeting were found every day, while the
mother sat behind the close-drawn blinds of Les
Saules, and broke the vials of her wrath over
the head of her unlucky George.

It had been already arranged between the
young lovers that they were to meet at the
Dower House to-day, by that lucky chance
which is part of the craft and diplomacy of love.
Thus Charlie felt sure of falling in with Estelle
somewhere about the place, should Lady Elizabeth
be out — which was not likely, as he knew
she would be anxious to hear the result of her
recommendation.

So it all proved. Lady Elizabeth w r as at
home in her own private ' work-room,' and
Estelle Clanricarde was with her, sitting as her

model for the head of Ruth gleaning in the
fields of Boaz; — at which the dear lady was
working with as much zeal as if painting washer
profession.

Well !' said Lady Elizabeth, after the first
greetings were over ; ' and what about the
commission V

Oh !' said Charlie, tossing up his handsome
head ; ' it has come to nothing, of course I'

Why of course?' and ' Oh, Charlie !' said the
two girls in a breath. Lady Elizabeth's large,
limpid grey eyes expressed surprise — Estelle's
beautiful brown moths, regret.

Because I am a gentleman, Lady Elizabeth,'
said Charlie with infinite disdain ; ' and I could
not consent to work for such scoundrels if 1 had
not a penny piece in the world ! I would
rather buy a broom and sweep a crossing !'

Caleb Stagg is not a scoundrel,' said Lady
Elizabeth gently.

His father is, if he is not,' broke in Charlie,
with more heat than courtesy.

'Rude, perhaps, and boorish, but I should
scarcely call him a scoundrel,' the lady again

insisted, as gently as before, but also as firmly.

4 In any case, how could I work for a wretch
who has not the smallest rudiment of taste
who puts together the vilest and most immoral
colours — prefers hideous forms to righteous ones
and knows no more of values than what is so
much money worth ! Lady Elizabeth, it is
impossible !'

But you might be a missionary, and teach
the heathen,' continued the lady.

'Can you teach pigs?' retorted Charlie scornfully.
' Besides, that old scoundrel insulted me.
How could I accept a commission from a man
who not only does not know one thing from
another, but who also does not know how to
behave with common decency ? How should he !
a mere brute like that — a miner yesterday,
and nothing but a miner to-day with a pot of
money he avouch be far better without. Such a
trio as they are ! I declare they made me
ashamed of my own species.'

f We cannot help their wealth,' said Lady
Elizabeth. 'They have the money, you see,
and it was honestly earned ; so they must keep

it. But, if we could make them distribute it
wisely, that would be a gain to everyone alike.
That was what I thought of when I proposed
this room to them and to you. I thought that
it would be both a noble piece of work for the
future occupier of Redhill, if the present would
scarcely appreciate it at its full value — and that
you would be the gainer by so much, and,' looking
at Estelle, ' would be so much nearer your
happiness.'

I know all that, dear Lady Elizabeth,' said
Charlie, feeling more contrite than he cared to
express, but resolved to fight it out on his chosen
lines of dignity and gentlefolk ; ' and you maybe
sure it cost me something to turn my back on
"what would have been a splendid bit of work all
through. But, believe me, I could not! It
would have been impossible ! and neither you
nor Estelle would have wished it had you understood
all the conditions.'

I am sure you did right, Charlie,' put in Estelle
hastily. Not for worlds would she let him
see that she was disappointed or in any way
doubted the absolute wisdom of his action. ' As

Charlie says, it would have been impossible,'
she added.

A tender smile, a little tinged with sadness,
crossed Lady Elizabeth's face. The three years
that lay between her and Estelle, as well as the
difference in their characters, gave her the air
and sentiment of far more experience than
perhaps the reality warranted. But experience
is sometimes, as it were, forestalled — foreseen
by the qualities of the character ; and Lady
Elizabeth's — thoughtful, self-controlled and intense
— had a grip and an outlook of more value
than is got by such heady impulsiveness as that
which ruled Charlie Osborne's life, or such weakness
to her affections as was Estelle's governing
motive.

Well, we must think of something else as
this has failed,' said the lady, after a pause.
'I must try to get you a commission — ' to
Charlie, with one of her charming, generous
smiles, meaning to say that she was in no wise
offended by this rejection of her first efforts.
1 I am determined you shall succeed,' she went
on to say playfully ; * and I feel strong enough

to conquer fortune for you. We will introduce
you to Mr. Smythe Smith. He is coming down
to stay with us for a few days ; and perhaps
that will be a better thing for you in the end
than this would have been. But this would
have kept you here — which was a consideration ;'
looking at Estelle as girls do when they are sympathetic
with a love-affair.

1 It cannot be helped,' said Charlie, still
mounted on his very highest horse. * Essential
as money is to me, I cannot barter for it my self-respect
; and to have worked for this old ruffian,
and for such a house of Horrors, would have
been to practically sell myself. Art, to be
worthy of its high mission, ought to be worthily
represented,' he added loftily. * In this deplorable
age of ours the artist is the only true priest,
and he must be equal to his office.'

6 Yes,' said Estelle, her soft eyes full to overflowing
with that kind of love which stirs a
man's inmost soul — the love that unites intellectual
obeisance with spiritual adoration and
personal fondness — the love that makes of the
lover a hero and a demi-god to himself — the

love on which artists and poets live as the enchantress
Maimouna lived on the breath of
flowers, as birds of paradise are intoxicated
with the dews of heaven — that love of all the
most dangerous both to her who gives and to
him who receives. The one it robs of self-respect
and a higher standard ; the other it robs of
a god greater than himself.

Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth. ' But there is
also something grand in being nobler than one's
own pride,' she added. ' Self-forgetfulness has
its own splendour, has it not 1 And I always
think that line of George Herbert's, "Who
sweeps a room as for Thy laws," might be used
as a rule of conduct more often than it is.'

1 That is a very different thing from doing
artist's work for human pigs, and taking money
from a ruffian who does not know how to behave,'
said Charlie. ' I would be as humble as
anyone to true greatness. I am. I reverence
every word that the Master says — (' Even
when he curses all travellers by railways V put
in Lady Elizabeth) — * and I should not dream of
opposing his dictum in anything,' continued

Charlie, not noticing ; ' but that is quite another
thing. To reverence true greatness and knuckle
under to wealthy ruffianism do not come into the
same category, dear Lady Elizabeth.'

Do not call it ruffianism, Charlie,' she
answered. ' Call it ignorance. I daresay Mr.
Stagg did not know that he was behaving
badly. He acted only after the law of his kind.'

1 Yes,' said Charlie grandly ; * that is just it.
He acted after the law of his kind — like a brute ;
and I after that of my kind — like a gentleman.
He insulted me, and I repudiated him.'

Lady Elizabeth got up and went over to the
young artist. His handsome face was flushed,
but set and stern with indignation ; hers — that
tender Madonna face — was pale, and, as it were,
quivering and instinct with something that was
more sublime than pity, more noble than
sympathy.

4 Who was it said, " Father, forgive them, for
they know not what they do " V she said with
infinite feeling. ' Oh, Charlie, the longer I live,
the more and more deeply I feel the need we
have in ourselves of forgiveness, and the duty

laid on us of forgiving others ! It is not forgiveness
so much as understanding. If we
could see into a person's heart and all round a
circumstance, we should never be angry. At
the worst, we should be only sorry !'

'Lady Elizabeth, you are an angel,' said
Charlie, moved by her earnestness, but not taking
fire at her flame. ' I am only a weak sinful
man, and I cannot follow you in your higher
flights. You can be patient where I cannot.
We are not all made of the same material ; and
mine is less ethereal that yours.'

Lady Elizabeth took herself back with a
nervous little laugh.

1 1 daresay I am silly and exaggerate things,'
she said hurriedly. ' Eustace says I do ; but I
should like to see certain principles more acted
on; and this of forgiving others — tolerating
ugly appearances, and not taking offence easily
is one of them.'

Then would you have me pocket the
affront, and take the commission simply for the
gain V asked Charlie, his handsome face again
flushing.

No, not unless you could have seen the thing
from my standpoint,' was her reply. ' I would
never wish anyone to do what seemed to him
mean or degrading

You would only wish me to do what was-mean
and degrading from another platform —
blinded by another set of motives?' said
Charlie.

It was Lady Elizabeth's turn now to flush. A
transient gleam of reproach darkened the tender
radiance of her soft grey eyes. But it passed as
quickly as it came.

Of course, it all depends on the way in which
we look at things,' she said quietly ; and Charlie,
rather ashamed of himself, but too proud to confess
it, said ' Yes,' just as quietly. Which ended
the conversation, and decomposed all the
thoughts that had created it.

But,' as Charlie said to Estelle afterwards,
1 but that I really love Lady Elizabeth like my
sister, I should get provoked at her ultra ideas.
I am, I hope, as high-minded as any man, and
would scorn to do a mean or pitiful action as
much as anyone, but really I cannot follow her

and no one could ! It is just Utopia that she
imagines. It would be the millennium if it
were all true ; and that is ridiculous.'

1 Yes,' said Estelle ; ' and yet ' — loyalty to her
friend colouring even her submission to her
lover — ' she is so good ! She is an angel !'

That's just it,' said Charlie ; ' she is more of
an angel than a woman ; and I confess I like
women better than angels ! I know one, however,
who is both !' he added fondly.

Whereon they started off into the mellifluous
babble of love, and forgot all in the delight of
the moment and the joy of the hour.

A few days after this Mr. and Mrs. Smythe Smith,
the new millionaires, came down to visit Lord
and Lady Kingshouse ; and Lady Elizabeth, this
transparent and angelic creature, laid her kindly
traps and baited them as deftly as Mrs. Clanri-
scarce herself could have done. She spoke to
Mrs. Smythe Smith of their clever and delightful
young artist, of his beautiful ideas, his delicate
fancies, his original genius, his certainty of
future fame. He was at the right moment for
plucking by afar-seeing and intelligent patron.

It would be a proud thing to be able to say iu
future time : f I made this now famous genius !'
It was always such a grand thing to be the
patron of as yet undiscovered talent ! Mr.
Osborne would make a quite unique monument
a perfectly beautiful success of their magnificent
house. She hoped they would think of it ;
for a beautiful thing is in very truth a joy forever,
and does the world so much good ! And,
if only for the delight she had in beauty and
perfectness, she would like them to have Mr.
Osborne's work in their place. And so on. But
it must always be remembered that Lady Elizabeth
did really believe all this of her old friend
and childish playmate, and that she was in nowise
touting for the good of a mediocrity to the
damage of a Croesus.

Mr. Smythe Smith said he would rather prefer
a man of known repute — a man whose name
alone would add lustre to his worth, and cause
the envious world to admire without cavil. Mrs.
Smythe Smith, on the other hand, inclined to
the undiscovered genius, whom also she thought
she could a little deflect, if not bully and make

subservient to her wishes. It would then be
< we.' ' Mr. Osborne and I planned this room —
made out this decoration — arranged these details.
I proposed this colour ; I worked up that subject ;
and I found Mr. Osborne most civil and obliging
most ready to adopt my suggestions and
carry them out.'

Yes, she was certainly on the side of
the undiscovered genius ; and as Mr. Smythe
Smith knew that it was good form to give
way to a wife before folk, he yielded the
point in this instance, and Mrs. Smythe Smith
stuck to it. Whence it came to pass that
Charlie Osborne and his portfolio were had upto
the Dower House, when the designs he had
made at Lady Elizabeth's suggestion were
looked at, admired, criticized, and pronounced
eminently workable and satisfactory.

For the look of the thing, and to maintain an
independent attitude as well as to sustain their
character as people of taste, judgment and discernment,
Mrs. Smythe Smith made one suggestion
and Mr. Smythe Smith another — of no
vital importance and touching no organic principle

; and Charlie Osborne was too well-bred to
object to modifications which pleased the pride
of those who made them and hurt nothing that
was essential to his own ideas.

His manners and appearance both impressed
the wealthy parvenu and his wife to a high
degree of favour. That air he had of semi-royal
dignity sat so well on his extremely handsome
person ; his voice was so melodious ; his
eyes were so very fine ; his hands were so perfectly
well-shaped — the hands emphatically of a
gentleman ; Lady Elizabeth was so friendly ;
the countess was so almost maternal — she was
in the plot and took to it as naturally as a duckling
to the water ; what woman would not ? —
my lord was so good-humouredly familiar —
glad to follow his dear Delight's lead and to do
as she desired — all these considerations stirred
the brains of Mr. and Mrs. Smythe Smith like
sweet must in new wine, so that the bargain
was made and the arrangement come to without
boggling or delay. And before Charlie
Osborne well knew where he was, or all that it
included, he had agreed to leave Kingshouse

VOL. I. T

and Estelle and go to London with the Smythe
Smiths for the art-decoration of their magnificent
house in Piccadilly. The whole future of
the drama hung on this one apparently unimportant
act. Had he taken the Redhill commission
and stayed where he was, the story of his
life and Estelle's would have been completely
changed.

CHAPTER XVII.

Pane ET Licenses.

In this queer life of ours, with its intricacies of
sacrifice and its interdependence of circumstances,
no pleasure comes to one without pain
to another. As in social ordering the helot
makes the aristocrat, so from the smiles of the
endowed spring the tears of the bereaved. The
wedding-wreath is gathered from the rose-trees
on the grave ; the mother suffers that the child
may rejoice ; the accumulated wealth of one
comes from the loss or toil of many; and all
work by which mankind has benefited has cost
blood and treasure and the burden of such
grave care as must needs go with endeavour.
Gethsemane is the mirror of the world and cot

2

oval with the ages ; and the stream of those who
pass through the gates of its mournful garden
is as large as life itself.

Now, here at Kingshouse in a small way and
with narrow bordering, was enacted the old
familiar drama of gain and loss. The 'panes
et licenses ' offered to Charlie meant banyan
days in the house of happiness to Estelle ; and
Love suffered equally with each because Prosperity
took up the running with one. There
was this consolation, however — Charlie's prosperity
would eventually be Estelle's happiness ;
for, of course, she was as fixed in her determination
to wait for him, all her life if need be,
and never marry another come what might
as fixed as those stars in the sky, which somehow
seemed her sympathizers and confidantes
when her mother was acrid and Charlie invisible.


Their parting was in secret, as their meetings
had been. When the handsome young Detrimental
called at Les Saules to salve over old
sores and blot out old scores, he saw Mr. and
Mrs. Clanricarde only. Estelle was in the wood,

and her mother was not too curious as to her
daughter's whereabouts. She was too grateful to
providence and Mr. Smythe Smith to grudge a
few crumbs of content to the poor little dove who
was to be the sacrifice. Believing as she did
in the transforming power of change and
absence, she trusted in these to destroy the love
into which the old boy and girl affection had
developed. Besides, the chapter of accidents
for a beautiful young creature like Estelle hasa
broad margin. Hence, she could afford to be
quite humane to Charlie Osborne when he came
to take his leave of them all ; and she even condescended
to speak of Estelle's absence as something
in which he might be supposed to take an
interest. It was a folly well over, she thought
something like measles or settlers, or haply
scarlatina, and she did not foresee ' sequela?/

Hidden in the wood from all eyes but those
friendly ones of the Great Mother, poor Estelle
was breaking her heart, yet doing her best not
to be too selfish in her sorrow. It was for
Charlie's good in every way that he should
have this splendid commission ; and she knew

as well as he that it was for her good too in
the end. Were not their lives essentially one,
although to all appearance as yet divided?
Still, the moment was bitter, and Estelle was
not ashamed to suffer. But all things came
to an end. * Tout casse, tout lasse, tout
passe,' says the melancholy French proverb ;
and sorrow itself stumbles slowly forward to
oblivion as anguish creeps onwards to death.
Tears and protestations — the kisses consecrated
to pain and those which are pledges of
future joy — farewells repeated solemnly as the
last, then, lost and confounded in another
embrace — smiles which are sadder than tears,
and assurances which somehow carry no weight
and bring no content — who that has ever loved
does not know the whole diapason of this suffering,
the whole sad framing of this threnody 1
Those two young creatures in the wood went
through the old familiar tragedy ; and then the
moment came when they must absolutely part
his face turned to the mighty world of
London, where he should find the grand anodyne
of work and the noble stimulus of active endeavour

— she to the restricted life of home
where her mother would not be her friend and
her father might not. But so it is. The weak
one is ever singled to * endure what it once possessed
;' and while the men dare and die the
women live and weep.

Spring and summer, and even autumn itself,
had fled now for Estelle. It was the winter of
her soul. Her lover was away and the sun had
gone out of her sky. She would have felt it ina
certain sense treacherous to her great trust
had she been even moderately happy in his
absence. To have been gay would have been
impiety. She carried her sorrow as the
Christians of old times carried the sign of their
faith, hidden within her breast, but ever to be
made visible to those who should care to pluck
it forth. She gave up society, and found the
vicarage parties the very haunts of dulness and
the homes of ennui. She suddenly became
miserly of time, and her diligence at home was
really edifying to the whole household. She
was very sweet and good to her mother ; submissive
to the last degree in all small matters,

as if wanting to atone for her disobedience in
that one, the largest and most important of all ;
making up by pennyworth for the transference
of the whole capital. She got up early and she
did a vast amount of needlework ; but here and
there, when the colours were not quite fast,
there were blotches as if the thread had * run '
and stained the cloth.

Her extreme docility touched Mrs. Clanricarde,
who was by no means a bad-hearted woman,
though she was what we call concretely Worldly
with cause enough, poor soul! But though
it touched her on one side, it made her suspicious
and watchful on another, for she understood
to a nicety that art of making up by
pennyworth when the main capital has been
squandered. Was she not accustomed to it from
her husband 1

This suspiciousness, however, was not suffered
to appear. Mrs. Clanricarde was far too clever
to spoil the whole brew for want of a little
sugar. Nor was she in any sense an unnatural
mother, indifferent to her daughter's love and
careless of her happiness. On the contrary, it

was because she honestly believed this happiness
was to be found in the long-run in money
rather than in love, that she had opposed Charlie
Osborne and taken up with Caleb Stagg — a
better not being at hand. She responded then
to all Estelle's sweet little advances with
sympathetic acceptance ; and went half way to
meet her. She never alluded to the late cloud
that had been between them, nor to him whose
shape it bore. She seemed to have forgiven
and even forgotten that little episode about
Caleb Stagg, with all the disappointment it had
brought, and to have wiped it off the slate of
life's past transactions altogether. She looked
narrowly after the post, and let her daughter
receive all Charlie's letters uninterrupted — knowing
that to have prevented these first deliveries
would have simply created an underground
post-office, where she would have had no supervision.
What she would do in the future was
another matter altogether. She believed in the
Fabian policy of weakening by delay, and that
Les absents ont toujours tort.' But as matters
were for the moment, all things stood on velvet,

and, save for that wolf of impecuniosity prowling
ever more closely round the door, one would
have said that the household at Les Saules was
in better case than it had been for months past
indeed, ever since handsome Charlie Osborne
had come down from London to [translate his
boyish affection into a man's conscious passion,
and Estelle had passed from a maidenhood as
undisturbed as Bonnie Ailment's into one besieged,
possessed and overmastered by love.

Meanwhile, Charlie Osborne found his place
in London one after his own heart. Had he
had the ordering of things he could not have
framed a better pattern. The Smythe Smiths
were charming people — for parvenus. Of course,
they were pretentious. That is the very essence
of the condition. For, being afraid to show
ignorance, and not knowing into what circles of
knowledge high-bred people are in a manner
born, the parvenu assumes to know everything,
and makes bad shots in consequence. But
they were substantially sensible people, and
amenable. To apparently yield was in reality
to direct ; as Charlie soon found out, and sagely

acted on. When Mrs. Symthe Smith made her
suggestions — which were blemishes, and Mr.
S my the Smith made his— which were suicidal,
the young artist accepted them as though they
were absolutely worth considering. He began
by praising them en bloc, and ended by deftly
whittling them away to nothing. But he made
the renunciation come from them, as their own
spontaneous decision, and so saved their self-love,
his own credit, and the harmony of his
ideas unbroken. Then, they were generous
people, and spared no expense in any direction*
And next to the pleasure of spending one's own
money is that of manipulating other people's — a
pleasure of which Charlie was keenly conscious,
and by no means shy in its use. Mrs. Smythe
Smith, too, a showy, well-preserved woman on
the right side of forty, had taken an immense
fancy for this handsome artist, guest and friend.
She called herself his mother, and treated him
with as much affection as she treated her own
son, Lawrence — a tall, well-built young athlete
of twenty, who looked more like her younger
brother than her son. She petted him greatly,.

and made much of him in all ways. She flattered
him both delicately and deliciously; and
yielded to his opinion with that mixture of
dignity and tenderness which no young man
alive can resist. Not Estelle herself touched
that irritable self-love of his with a softer hand
than did this wealthy parvenue whom Charlie
himself was not ashamed to own as his
patroness.

On his side Mr. Smythe Smith was just as kind,
just as satisfactory. He had taken to heart Lady
Elizabeth's hint about discovering genius and
making a great artist's career, and he was resolved
that Charlie Osborne should have his
way made in royal fashion. He was building
his own monument in this potential fame of the
was yet unfledged phoenix. When Charlie should
be Sir Charles and the President of the Royal
Academy, it would be in everyone's mouth
how the great Mr. Smythe Smith had seen
his power from the first, had dug him out
from obscurity and given him his first job.
Maecenas has come down to posterity together
with the great men he feasted and patronized

; and he, Mr. Smythe Smith, would play
the part of a modem Maecenas, beginning with
Charlie Osborne. So that, as may be seen,
everything went well for the lover of Estelle
Clanricarde ; and even Lawrence, who did not
care a penny piece for friezes or dados, peacocks
or sunflowers, had a younger comrade's admiration
for the artist, who was a gentleman and a good
fellow all round. And he did not grudge either
his salary or his command of the governor's
money, seeing that he had as much as he wanted
for himself; nor yet did he grudge him the
mater's affection, seeing that he was too much
occupied in making his own experience out of
doors to be very observant of things at home.

To do Charlie justice, nothing of all this
touched his fidelity to Estelle. It was intoxicating
and delightful enough ; but it swept over
his senses rather than his heart, and captivated
his vanity more than his love. He did not
make the mistake of supposing that Mrs. Smythe
Smith's very pronounced affection for him meant
more than it assumed to mean. It never
occurred to him to ' try it on ' with the wife of

his patron, who was also his host and friend;
nor to imperil his advantageous present for the
dangerous excitement of a possible intrigue.
He was also wise enough to know that the
patron is always more or less the lion, while
the patronized is correspondingly the mouse.
Hence, he never allowed himself to feel secure
to the extent of taking liberties — which also
were not, in his code, permitted to true gentle-hood.
And he was a conscientious worker —
more especially when his heart was in his work,
as now, when every success he scored was to the
good of the future and brought him so much
the nearer to Estelle. He never forgot her,
and wrote to her at the first frantically and
frequently — as time went on, with the most
lovely and consoling regularity, but not so
often, and with less of the poison of despair
and more of the honey of hope in his
letters. He was evidently cheerful to happiness
and full of rose-coloured schemes for the future.
He told Estelle all that he was doing, and sent
her little thumb-nail sketches of his principal
ideas. This associated her with him, and kept

the bond between them unbroken and unstrained
; and though she was too sweet and
loving to be either jealous or suspicious, exacting
or insistent, still this voluntary confidence
and strict association made her very happy — sofar
as a girl separated for an indefinite time from
the man she passionately loves, and with whom
her engagement is in secret and against her
mother's permission, can be said to be happy in
any sense.

So time passed, and the autumn and the
winter flowed once more into the spring, and
still things were exactly where they were. The
grand house in Piccadilly was now almost
finished, and the Smythe Smiths would soon
move into it. Charlie had made a good 'hat-full
' of money, as he phrased it, and he had
been careful — for a young artist — and not extravagant.
He had looked on it as a nest-egg
and treated it as such ; seeing in it fair shapes
of home and wife, of fame and fortune, and
reverencing it for what it was set aside to bring.
But a thunderbolt fell out of the blue ; and a
cloud at first no bigger than a man's hand soon

swept over the whole sunny south. Charlie's
health, which had long been giving Mrs.
Smythe Smith uneasiness, though he himself
made light of her fears, suddenly gave way
with a run, and a broken blood-vessel brought
him to the brink of the grave and kept him
there for some time.

As no one knew of his engagement to Estelle
Clanricarde, there was no one to write and tell
her what had happened, nor what was the reason
of this sudden cessation of letters. The poor
girl fretted herself ill in sympathy with her
absent lover; feeling sure that it was illness
with him, and in no wise treachery nor desertion.
At her instance, Lady Elizabeth took it
on herself to write to Mrs. Smythe Smith,
making general inquiries as to the work, and
whether they were not pleased with their artist,
and when would it be finished, &c, &c. All
meaning the one simple little question : ' Why
has not Charlie Osborne written for so long to
Estelle Clanricarde V

Then Mrs. Smythe Smith answered, and the
sorrowful truth came out. They were more

than pleased, she said, with all that Mr. Osborne
had done for them, and felt they could never
repay Lady Elizabeth for her recommendation.
Mr. Osborne was not only a delightful artist,
but he was a most charming young man ; and
they had all taken him into their affections as
if he had been a member of their family. Unfortunately
his health had broken down, and
that very seriously. But he was mending, and
the doctor said he would soon be patched up
sufficiently to be moved. He would never be a
very robust man, but he would probably quite
recover from this failure ; and as soon as he was
able to bear it they were going to put him onboard
their steam yacht, and send him round
the world with their son. A long sea-voyage
to cooler latitudes in summer and warmer in
winter would reinstate him entirely ; and they
hoped when he returned that he would bring
back a stock of strength to last him for all his
life after.

Here, then, the secret was explained, and
poor Estelle knew of what material her heavy
cross was made.

VOL. I. U

There was no help for it. Nor tears nor
prayers can stay the tide, put back the hand of
time, nor make that broken blood-vessel as
good as new without absence, care, and long
delay. As things were, it was a merciful ordering
of providence that Charlie had such good
friends— people both able and willing to help
him in his day of need. Had he been as he was
last year, alone in lodgings with only that
hundred a year to fall back on — with occasional
remittances from an unknown hand, sent for
the last four or five years regularly but not to
be counted on — his fate might have been very
different. Now, all that could be done had
been and would still be done ; and this voyage
would be perhaps the turning-point in his
physical health as this commission had been
that of his fortune.

So Lady Elizabeth argued, doing her best to
comfort poor Estelle, who, unselfish and un exacting
as she might be, yet felt as if this voyage
were the doom of her eternal separation, and
that she should never more see her beloved.
Hope lay dead at her feet, and happiness was

but a broken bubble. Her life was widowed ;
her soul was sunk into eternal mourning.
Henceforth she had only memory and her own
eternal faith. For she would die as she was
now — devoted to Charlie and to Charlie only.

All this she replied to her friend's more cheerful
arguments, and Lady Elizabeth could not
help her. She, as must we all, had to dree her
own weird and bear her own burden ; and solace
from without there was none. Charlie going
away for perhaps a year, perhaps two — ill, unseen,
kissed, bearing with him only her heart
and all her joy — what solace could she have !
Not even her mother's increased tenderness made
amends for this supreme loss ; and so the blackness
came, and what had been only the twilight
of hope unfulfilled was now the midnight of
despair, and a darkness which no star melted and
not even a meteor illumined.

u2

MIDNIGHT.

CHAPTER I.

THE NEW TRUSTEE.

In the county where they lived the Affords
had that character for eccentricity which belongs
to all people of originality of thought or marked
individuality of character. Strong, energetic,
undisciplined, as lads they ran away from school
as men they shot big game and sought adventures
in the wilds. Some of them were explorers,
and added the source of a river or the exact
latitude of a mountain to the possessions of
geography. Some of them tried the north-west
passage, and died of cold and starvation on the
ice ; and others, to whom savages were no more
men and brothers than so many rats and mice,
were killed by poisoned arrows on a South-sea
island when they did not die of fever in a mangrove

swamp or were not eaten by crocodiles in
the river. As a family, they had gone all over
the world, seen every kind of life and died every
kind of death. Even the heirs to the estate had,
more than once, set the pleasures of wild adventures
against the possession of a t stake,' and
found the * stake ' the lighter of the two. Nota
Harford among them all had ever demeaned
himself to commerce, to medicine, or to law.
Some had gone into the army, and some into
the navy ; both of which services they generally
managed to make somewhat too hot for them,
and thus were either cashiered or given a roving
commission, which allowed them more liberty of
adventure than the regulars enjoyed. Sometimes,
when they had kicked over the traces at
home more recklessly than usual, they had
enlisted as privates or gone as sailors before the
mast ; when, either their unruly spirit had been
so far knocked out of them as to make them glad
to be bought off and reduced to conventional
conformity — or else they had deserted, to be
caught and shot — or they had fled into space,
to be never heard of again.

All sorts of wild traditions floated through the
family annals. A white man had been heard of
as a medicine-man of power among the Blackfeet
Indians — and he was a Harford. The most
daring pirate in the Chinese seas was said to bean
Englishman, and if so, who could he be but a
Harford? The mysterious Europeans always
turning up as Mohammedan, in turbans and
baggy breeches, were Harfords to a man : and
there was never a time when there was not a
Harford, under another name, in the workhouse
or in prison, driving a cab or sweeping a crossing.
In short, they were the modern representatives
of the Vikings, the knights-errant, the
Crusaders, the Uscoques, the grievances of all
times and nations. But they made good members
of society when they did settle down;
and as owners of the estate were as hard on
poachers as if they were not of the same kidney
themselves.

The Jack Harford who had just died had been
in his youth quite up to the family traditions for
wildness, which had not prevented his marrying
a well-conditioned lady, who gave him two

children, and then no more. She died when
young Anthony was about twelve years old and
his sister Constance two years whig junior ; and
next year the widower married again. "Which
second marriage, adding fuel to the fire of the
wild Harford blood, sent Anthony off on his unauthorized
travels when he was eighteen —
whence he did not return till brought back by
his father's death and his own inheritance.

For the first months more pressing business
than that Aspline trusteeship took up his time
and absorbed his attention. There was his
father's widow to deal with ; his half-brothers
and sisters to see ; their claims to look into — to
dispute when he could, and to settle with as
good a grace as might be when he could not.
Not that he was close-fisted ; but he had ever
cherished that old resentment against the
marriage which had landed him in the Wild
West of America so soon as he had got his head ;
and he was reconciled to his step-mother no
more now than before. He was a man with that
close-set tenacity of feeling which creates a vendetta
or heads a crusade, and is as likely to come

to the scaffold for crime as to the stake for heroism.
Forgiveness was a virtue so hard as to have
been hitherto impossible, and so distasteful as to
appear to him a vice because a weakness; while
revenge was the strong man's prerogative — the
inalienable right of the injured. No man who
had ever crossed Anthony Harford's path or inflicted
on him any kind of loss or wrong, had
lived long to celebrate his victory. But with all
his fiery passions he had kept his masculine integrity
without a flaw ; and the man did not live
who could say that Anthony Harford had ' ever
funked or ever lied,' had hurt the defenceless,
injured the innocent, or lured wife or maid to
the undoing of her fair fame.

In the Border states and cities, where he had
carried his life in his hand, he had been compelled
into the line of action to which his inherited
proclivities naturally drew him. There,
where a man's virtue is still emphatically his
courage and his manliness, passion reaching
into ferocity is only a defect, and self-respect,
quickly kindling into passion, is certainly a
quality. To brook no impertinence; to wash

out an insult in blood ; to be the second to show
and the first to draw ; to brush aside him who
else will brush you aside ; to court no quarrel but
to avoid none that courts you ; to respect all and
demand respect from all, with revolver and
bowie knife if need be — these are among the
first principles of life in such lawless places as
those where Anthony Harford had lived. And
they were principles which accorded only too
well with his own nature. But by this very
lawlessness, this very necessity for self-defence,
he had learned self-control.

When folks live in a powder magazine they are
careful about fire ; and insolence or aggression
among quick-tempered men, handy with their
shooting-irons and unrestrained by law, is too
dangerous a pastime to be often indulged in.
Hence Anthony Harford had learned to watch
himself as well as others, and his passions, which
were once like unbroken steeds, were now those
same steeds in harness, curbed, bitted and
directed. But they were essentially the same
creatures. It was only the training that was
different. And, as we all know, harness will

sometimes break, and the best trained beast
will sometimes take the bit between his teeth
and then farewell to all the arts of the
manege !

His return to old scenes and the consciousness
of responsibility, together with that invisible
but omnipotent influence of public opinion,
wrought, as might be expected, on Anthony.
At first he did not like the change. After those
boundless wastes, those pathless forests, those
'harvested seas' of prairie land, those un-saleable
mountains crowned with eternal snow,
those uninhabited regions where the snake hissed
and the grizzly roamed, England seemed both
painfully crowded and ludicrously small. To
stand on a hill a few hundred feet above the
plain and see the fields and farms mapped out
below, gave him the impression of a child's toy
a puzzle on a rather large scale, cunningly contrived
and neatly fitted, but wanting in dignity
and reality. His own place, beautiful as it was,
seemed scarce large enough for a man's full
breathing ; and the details of management were
pitifully mean and sordid and minute. To waste

words or give two thoughts to Dick's drain or
Joe's chimney — to hesitate for a moment before
ordering Tom's lean-to or Will's new barn —
why, it all seemed the meanest thing out ; and he
acceded to this and that with a generosity of
sweep which made his bailiff stand aghast,
gatherer-in as he was of the numerous pickles
which in the aggregate make a mickle. By
degrees, however, the returned wanderer learnt
the lesson of proportion, and narrowed the wide
generosity of his first sweep to dimensions better
fitted to home life. He no longer thought
it shame to accept little rents of a few pounds
a-year from labourers whose children went
barefooted and whose cupboard often wanted
bread. He held it as part of the obligations of
his state as landlord and proprietor to higgle
over every little improvement or repair needed
by his tenants ; and to force them, for the sake
of the principle, to contribute so many shillings,
on their own side — representing empty stomachs
and shivering bodies, where he felt neither the outlay
nor the saving more than he felt the weight
of a fly on his shoulder. He was never a grasping

landlord nor a greedy, and his name stood
high in the county for largeness of generosity ;
but he learnt to curb his natural instincts into
exacter conformity with the public feeling and
general action of his class, and something of
the scent of the wild sage-bushes passed off him.
But he retained certain characteristics and
qualities gained by contact with lawlessness and
association with danger ; and he added to the
unmistakable carriage of an English gentleman
that peculiar air of dignity, reserve and self-respect
which sits like a garment on the shoulders
of one used to the rough life of the Wild West.

Brave as a lion and as strong as he was
brave ; handsome as a Greek bronze ; with the
eyes of a scout and the port of a king ; supple asa
panther and stately as a stag ; Anthony Harford
was one to move all women's hearts to love
all men's eyes to admiration. Wherever he
went a little cloud of whispered incense rose
round him — and his face, figure, attitude, the
way in which he stood and the way in which he
looked, were all freely commented on, sometimes
within ear-shot. Whether he heard or not his

commentators never knew. His face showed
nothing. The erect bearing, statuesque and
still; the keen eyes, watchful, expectant, waiting,
never aggressive, never provocative, simply-watchful
and expectant; the immobile face,
neither frowning nor smiling, not hard, not expressionless,
but the face of one waiting for
indications ; all gave the new owner of Thrift a
distinction which no man could either imitate or
obscure. His manner, too, was on a par with
his appearance, and was the active side of his
bearing. He spoke to everyone in the same
tone and with the same kind of dignified respect,
which was but the expression of his own self-respect.
The lord and the labourer received
precisely the same measure. If the scent of the
wild sage-bushes was slowly passing, the impress
of the habit of equality remained. He neither
kow-towed to superior greatness for his own
part, nor demanded that the inferior should kow-
tow to him. He reckoned men by their manhood,
not by their possessions ; and when the labourers
were servile and his tenants too humble, his
gorge rose against them, and he despised them

in proportion to the suppleness of their backs
and the weakness of their knees. He expected
even poverty to be self-respecting, and he was
revolted when he saw the survival of serfdom
and the taint of personal degradation, still
remaining among his countrymen as the inheritance
of poverty and the badge of class. But all
this, too, wore away in time ; at least the outward
expressions and manifestations wore away,
and simply left him graver, more dignified,
more austere even than the rest — but deprived
of his expectations that his tenants should treat
him as their equal and not as their superior — asa
man and not a demi-god.

After he had got all his own affairs in smooth
working order, Anthony Harford bethought himself
of that trusteeship which he had to take up.
The image of his fluffy little playmate and
humanized puff-ball had often come before him
like a pretty picture; and he had as often laid
that image aside till the more important matters
connected with his succession had been settled.
Now, however, he had leisure ; and his desire to
renew those pleasant links between boyhood and

VOL. I. X

fairyland grew with that leisure and finally took
the lead. He wrote to Mrs. Aspline a cold
letter of business details. He began ' Dear
madam,' and he ended ' truly yours.' But at the
end he infused a little dash of humanity, well
iced, by hoping that her daughter, Miss Aspline,
was well, and desiring to be recalled to her
memory. The letter was purposely made incomplete
and somewhat disappointing. He
thought it would probably bring a request for a
personal interview, which was what he desired
and was too proud to propose.

His little ruse had the desired effect. His
letter piqued and annoyed Mrs. Aspline — it
piqued and disappointed Anne.

1 This man is going to give me worlds of
trouble — I can see that P said the mother, her face
flushing seriously. ' He is as stupid as a boiled
owl !' she added. Then she wished she had left
out the boiled.

He seems rather confused,' said Anne, following
her mother's lead at a discreet distance,
echoing her thought as faintly as the second
rainbow repeats the first.

I shall have to go to London to consult Mr.
Demand,' said Mrs. Aspline peevishly. ' I should
so much like to have another trustee ! This
savage will never do any good. I daresay he
has forgotten his own language by now.'

He writes correctly,' said Anne with an air
of deliberation.

Oh ! his bailiff wrote for him,' said Mrs.
Aspline with an air of conviction.

Her daughter smiled in that vague pretty
way which may mean deprecation, assent, or
amusement, just as you like to take it. And you
take it according to your mood.

If I were not afraid of his habits I would ask
him to come here, and we could talk matters
over,' said Mrs. Aspline, who hated trouble and
dreaded travelling.

1 1 dare say he would be bearable,' returned
Anne, who secretly wanted him to come and
privately intended that he should be asked.

She had already woven two separate dreams
out of the flimsy web of her fancy— the one that
her old playmate had been a kind of corsair
creature, like Conrad, for instance ; a daring,

x2

beautiful, reckless sort of unauthorised hero,
ruthless to men, but as soft as satin and rose-leaves
to women — a perverted but ever noble
soul, whom she would bring back to conformity
and the catechism, and so stand as the godmother
to his spiritual redemption. The other
was, that he was a naive and delightful savage,
whom she would educate into the right use of
his spoon and fork. A misty and indistinct
recollection of some story she had once read
somewhere, gave her this idea ; and the name
of Anthony Harford did as well as any other for
her imaginary Huron. In any case she foresaw
gleams of sunshine and streaks of prismatic
colours across that rather dull sky of her daily
life, should this new element of interest be introduced,
and she hoped to imbue her mother with
her desire so as to make it appear her own — as
in general she was able to do.

It will scarcely do for us to present a savage
to our friends,' said Mrs. Aspline dubiously.

No,' said Anne ; * unless he amused them.
And Kingshouse is so dull, perhaps it would
brighten it up a little.'

'But if he is horrid in his habits, Anne?'
objected her mother.

We must tell him,' said Anne.

1 am sure / would not !' said Mrs. Aspline
warmly.

I would if you liked,' said Anne calmly.

Well, Anne, if you like to take the responsibility
of the creature I am sure I do not mind,'
Mrs. Aspline returned after a moment's pause.
Bad as he very likely is, Thrift is a lovely
place, and the old family name is worth something,
though the Harfords are such a queer lot.
We are not responsible for him after all. He
stands on his own feet. He is not like a nobody
whom we introduced and vouched for. He is a
Harford when all is said and done. So perhaps
I may venture.'

'I think you may,' said Anne in her usual
languid dreamy manner, though she could
scarcely repress the smile which rose to her
lips.

But it was not her way to be frank nor expansive.
Her theory was to govern with concealed
methods — holding the lever by which

the ship was quickened or slackened, but out of
sight of all eyes and unfelt by all hands. With
her mother she used these concealed methods
more carefully than with any one else. She
feared her jealousy — the jealousy of the reigning
sovereign, ever ready to take umbrage at
the heir-apparent, and to find freedom of action
usurpation and the premature discounting of
future powers. Mrs. Aspline had never quite
forgiven her lord and master for that tightly-drawn
will. She thought he might have left
her daughter to her care, and not have tied-up
the money as if she had been a swindler, or some
unnatural mother who did not regard her
daughter's interests as she ought. She had
often stuffed and fumed to Anne over that
provision of her father's will ; and Anne knew
exactly what she thought and how she felt.
Hence the substantial reason for her discreet
following, her repeating echo, her faint reproduction
of her mother's moods and words while
she had her hand on that lever by which the
concealed machinery below was moved.

I think you may,' she said languidly ; ' and,

as you say, he is a Harford, not an Aspline.
Thrift condoned a great many faults

Hence it came about that Anthony's wish
was fulfilled, and that a letter of invitation was
sent to him at Thrift — a letter almost as coldly
worded as his own, and written in Mrs. Aspline's
scratchy, fugitive kind of hand, which gave top
loops to all her consonants and lower twists to
all her vowels, and took four times as much
space as one twice as large would have taken.

Good,' said Anthony Harford when he
received the letter. ' I will go next week. 1
wonder what I shall find — whether little
Anne has grown into a bright girl or is a little
cuss, and whether Cooke is as fat as she used
to be when she gave me cakes and sweeties,
and I thought her the prettiest lady in the
county, who could beat the whole lot — hands
down !'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

LG58t
v.3

VOL. III.



THE LONG NIGHT

BY

E. LYNN LINTON

AUTHOR OF

PATRICIA KEMBALL,' * THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS,

< T1-\TVTT? ' '

10 NE,' ' PASTON CAREW,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

1889.

All Rights Reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

(continued)

MIDNIGHT.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XX.

THE SHIPWRECK.

Gone ! Gone like a stone in the water, like
the path of a bird in the air. Gone, and no
trace left by which to track her, no clue by
which to find her. Had the earth opened and
swallowed her up, or had a fiery chariot taken
her to heaven, she could not have disappeared
more wholly from the world, nor more completely
have effaced her path. She had gone,
and no one could say when, nor where, nor how,
nor whether she had been taken by force or had
gone of her own free will — whether she had
been companion or alone.

b2

When Anthony came home rather late from
his magisterial duties at that distant town, he
found his household in consternation. Mrs.
Harford, they said, had gone for a walk before
luncheon and had not returned. No one had
seen her save the nurse, who, as she passed the
window — called into the inner room by the cry
of the awakening child — caught a glimpse of her
young mistress standing on the upper terrace as
if looking at the view beyond. When she
repassed with the child Mrs. Harford was not
there. Save for this rapid glimpse, which told
nothing, no one else knew of her movements.
The gardeners and work people were at dinner ;
none of the servants were about ; for the moment
the place was deserted, and witness there
was none. She had disappeared as if she had
sunk into the central fire or had evaporated like
a dewdrop into space.

No search, however careful, which Anthony
instituted, came on the footprints of his lost love.
The dragged pond, the netted river, the abandoned
mines and disused quarries, the close
inquiries after tramps and gipsies, the police

-communicated with all through London and
the large centres, the telegrams to Les Sanies
nothing availed and nothing revealed. Not a
trace remained of the woman who was more
than the staff of his life to him ; and he exhausted
his imagination and broke his strong
heart in vain.

He knew nothing of the return of Charlie
Osborne to England, nor that he had suddenly
left Kingshouse ; still less that he had come to
Thorbergh — called by a mysterious summons
which left the door open for all possibilities of
intrigue and romance to pass through — or that
Mrs. Latimer's nephew had dropped down from
the clouds on a visit to his old aunt. Who was
to tell him all this ? He had no casual correspondents
at Kingshouse, and Mrs. Clanricarde
had been as careful not to mention the fact of
Charlie's return, in her letters to Estelle, as she
was now to ignore it in her answering telegrams
to Anthony. And if even he had known of this
return he would not have connected it with
Estelle's strange disappearance. He would not
have suspected her of flight with her old lover.

That she could have deserted him, her child, her
place, her honourable name of wife, her fair
fame among women, for a girlish fancy that
could never have justified itself by a serious
union and the very existence of which he had
almost forgotten — no ; he would have needed
overwhelming proof before he could believe
her capable of this disgrace — she whose faults
were surely not those of unbridled passion,
carelessness of her duties, contempt of moral
decencies.

He thought — and feared — that she might
have killed herself in some fit of insanity following
on the duller depression of her days. However
much he tried to fight against it, in his
heart he knew she was not happy. She was
sweet and patient, but she was no more than
this. Inert, dispirited, uninterested, he had to
confess to himself that his power had failed, and
that her heart was neither warmed nor won.
His marriage was not a success. He had made
heroic attempts to blind himself to the truth,
and force himself to believe a lie. He had not
succeeded. He had staked his all, and lost.

She was yet to win ; and the prize for which he
had ventured everything was not his. Still she
was not vicious. He had failed, but no other
man held her. And she had not deserted him
for another. She had not gone from him of her
own free will at all. There was some explanation
to this deadly mystery which would leave
her as spotless as his love would have her — as
nature had made her. She had gone ; but without
wickedness or wilfulness — save such as
might lie in a voluntary death.

By degrees he ceased to think that she had
died. It seemed to him as if he must have
known had she passed away from this world
into that of the unknown. Something would
have told him. Some whisper as of leaves
faintly stirred by the summer wind ; some touch
as of gossamer on his face ; some fleeting shadow
passing before his eyes while the sun was shining
bright and no cloud was in the sky — something
would have brought him a mute message
from the dread Beyond. She could not have
died and given him no sign of farewell. It was
impossible. And she was alive. She had gone

and gone of her own free will. But some day
she would come back. The mother's instinct
would bring her, and the wife's love would reawaken.
Some day she would stand before
him, drooping, penitent, sweet, and humble in
her beauty. Some evening she would steal
from out the dusky shadows, her hands outstretched,
asking for reinstatement. And he
would open his arms and gather her £o his heart
as lovingly as a mother would receive her lost
child suddenly restored. No reproach, but only
blessing should receive her — sweet words of full
forgiveness, glad tears of frank reconciliation,
the passion of joy that should turn away even
her self-reproach. He would welcome her as
the wintered earth welcomes the fresh young
spring, and love her the more for the pain she
had made him undergo.

And thinking this, one day he opened her
desk for love to touch what she had touched,
and there he came upon a hoard of girlish treasures
— of withered leaves and faded flowers ; a
lock of hair ; a ring ; a photograph ; some letters
all religiously kept as sacred relics embalmed

in perfumed paper — with dates and scraps of
poetry ; and everywhere the initials ' C. 0.,' or
the full name ' Charlie,' • Charles Osborne,' or
my beloved,' or ' my darling.'

Then Anthony Harford took his revolver from
the drawer where he always kept it, looked to
the loading, and thrust it into his pocket. She
should not suffer; but she should die. Her
beauty should be undefined, but she should do
longer live to work ruin on men. He knew
where to find her heart ; and his own after. His
revolver was trustworthy, and had been already
baptized.

Meanwhile, Estelle lived closely hidden behind
the curtains at Mrs. Latimer's. It was the
safest place, near to home as it was — safe as
were those rooms above the prefecture for the
murderer for whom the gens d'armes were in
search. No one knew of her being there, and
no one was likely to suspect. To outsiders, the
house had changed in nothing, save that a
young man, known to be Mrs. Latimer's nephew,
was occasionally seen going out and coming in.
His being there made a little difference in the

supplies, and was sometimes commented on by
the tradesmen, wishing to be civil and trying to
be jocular ; comments which Mary always accepted
quite seriously, confessing to the lusty
appetite of young men, and acknowledging
that, my word, indeed it did make a deal of
difference in the week's housekeeping ! They
managed, however, to do without extra help.
Stirred by the need of the moment, the old lady
threw off her chronic bronchitis and her debility
as if she had been put through Medea's cauldron,
and bustled about the house like a woman of
sixty rather than of eighty. Only when the
clergyman came for his usual godly ministrations
had she a bad turn again ; when she coughed
like death, and was limp and helpless among
the pillows in a darkened room. Else she was
as brisk as any of them, and for a lady, as she
was, showed herself wonderfully deft and handy
at washing and scrubbing.

Estelle was too pre-occupied to notice this
strange metamorphosis. She was grateful for
the asylum that Mary and her mistress gave her,
grateful for their sympathy and that they upheld

her flight and union with her lover as of
all things the most natural — what might have
been expected, and what was fair and just to
all alike ; grateful beyond all, and more than
she knew how to express even to her own heart,
that she had recovered the lost darling of life
the one sole beloved of her soul — the Sun-god
whose eclipse had been the very destruction ot
all things good and gracious to her. She
resolutely forgot all that was not Charlie. Her
husband, her child, her parents, her whole existence
of those last bitter years, all that was
outside him, she put away from her as we put
away the memory of our fever-dreams. She
knew nothing of repentance, nothing of regret ;
and remorse would have been an infidelity of
which she was incapable. Charlie was hers by
the prescriptive right of love and time ; and she
had but gone back to her own and left the unlawful
circumstances of the interval. Of all
those circumstances her child was the only
sacred spot, the only holy tie. And when the
sound of its tender voice suddenly broke in on
the ears we cannot stop — and its little hands

seemed to wander over her face, and its clear
and wondering eyes to look into hers — she
would fling her arms round Charlie's neck,
and drown the remembrance of that thing
which had been part of her very life, in floods
of caressing words which he rolled back on her
in sweet and full replies. For her husband she
had no pity, no thought of even moderate regret.
She looked on him as the executioner who had
first deceived and then tortured her. It was
only the child whose memory haunted her ; and
when that haunting and reproachful little spectre
rose as from a murdered bed before her eyes, she
did what she could to harden her heart by
remembering that her child was also his —
and that part which was his deserved no love
from her.

So the time passed till the summer had
gone and the winter was at hand ; and then
Charlie's health broke as once before, and the
only chance of saving his life was by taking
him to some warmer climate where he might
live in the sun and forget the cold winds of
the north.

Meanwhile, they had had one or two scares,,
as once, when Anthony Harford came suddenly
to the house and Estelle had just time to rush
up the stairs carrying her work with her. He
heard the ' frou-frou ' of her dress as it swept
the stairs, but he was not enlightened. No
mystery of subtle sympathy told him who it was.
It was the swish of a woman's gown and the
hurrying patter of a woman's feet — in all probability
the servant's, fleeing as for dear life
itself for a clean apron or a smarter cap. He
was not a man to naturally note much of the
ways or doings of servant-maids ; but this rapid
flight of the gaunt woman who served his
tenant struck him as odd — and why did he
think of it so much ? It was strange how those
sounds vexed his imagination, oppressed though
he was with that load of unspoken sorrow and
unrealized suspicion !

He paid Mrs. Latimer a long visit this day,
and it seemed to her, acting her part — to Mary,
vigilant and anxious, the sentinel under arms,
the pilot never taking her eyes from the horizon
— to Estelle, upstairs in her bed-room, with

the door ajar to hear the quicker and keener —
to Charlie by her side, unarmed, but feeling that
for her he would either slay or be slain — it
seemed to them all as if he would never go.
And, truth to say, to Anthony himself there was
a strange and nameless power of attraction,
which kept him talking to a half-imbecile old
invalid in that darkened, stifling room lie did
not know why, but could not withstand. At
last, however, he went. And when he left the
house he stopped and stood in the middle of
the street, looking at it curiously, and for a moment
seemed about to re-enter. Another time
a policeman came, looking at the scared inmates
as if bristling with warrants for their
apprehension. He was only charged with a
message from the Sanitary Board relative to
traps and overflows; and his visit passed as
innocuously as Anthony's. While they were
on hand, however, the fear was deep and great ;
and the sense of insecurity, always more or less
confessed to the mind of each, gained additional
clearness and predominance.

All these scares and fears were now at an

end. Secretly as they had come, unobserved
of all, so secretly they withdrew — the fugitive
wife and her childhood's lover ; and no one
knew the time, manner, or direction, nor who
they were who took the midnight train to
London and thence to the continent, so cleverly
were all things managed and all traces obliterated.
They were sufficiently furnished with
money from what Charlie had saved and what
Estelle had received for him. The old lady,
too, pressed on them a substantial gift ; and
altogether they made up a purse more than
enough for their immediate wants. And then
they passed away into space, and Anthony,
who had brushed by their hiding-place unawares,
had no warning to tell him of the distance
now between Estelle and himself, as he
had had none to tell him of her close neighbourhood.
Change of name ; unbroken reticence
on all their affairs, their relations, their home-status,
their original roots ; living to themselves
wholly and mixing up with no one — by
these means the two escaped detection and
gave no cause for suspicion. They were simply

like any other people — a beautiful young married
couple to be met with on the sunny days in
the lonely places of the Riviera — known to the
post-office and their landlady as Monsieur and
Madame Charles — pitied as well as admired by
all who saw them — for he looked as if he were
what people call ' struck for death,' and she had
a strange expression in her face as of one who
was doomed and fated.

Only Mrs. Clanricarde had her suspicions,
and only Mary and Mrs. Latimer knew the
truth. But neither mother nor maid hinted a
word of what the one thought and the other
knew to Anthony Harford, eating out his
heart in lonely anguish at Thrift. It was
emphatically a case in which doubt was better
than certainty. So both thought ; and as they
thought they acted.

Anthony would have no comfort. "When Mrs.
Clanricarde offered to go and stay with him —
asked him to come to Les Sanies— proposed to
take the child, as indeed in a manner her
right — he wrote back so ferocious a reply that
the lady, courageous as she was, and pachydermatous

to boot, quailed and shivered as if she
had been struck by a steel whip. But she
shrugged her shoulders and said with a high
voice and a higher colour :

1 1 will let him alone for the future. He is too
impossible ! I do not wonder that the poor, dear
girl left him, such a bear as he is ! But,' she
added, with the venomous concentration her
husband knew so well ; ' if ever I see Estelle
again, I will tell her in plain terms what I think
of her disgraceful conduct. Cocotte ! no better !'

Be merciful, my Louise,' said that foolish
George.

Merciful ! to a woman who leaves her husband
for another man !' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde.

We do not know all,' put in her husband
meekly.

1, who have borne with you all these years,
and have done my duty by you — be merciful to
a daughter who leaves such a place as Thrift
for a beggar like Charlie Osborne !'

1 We do not know that she has her husband
interposed again. * And am I such a bear

VOL. III. C

7'

as the dear Anthony?' he asked with weak
humour.

No,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, tranquilly as to
manner of aim but with plenty of poison on the
arrow ; ' you are not a bear, George — you are a
fool ; which is worse.'

Which candid avowal had the effect of shutting
up that poor unlucky speculator, as it was
intended it should.

At Kingshouse it gradually got to be known
that Mr. Charles Osborne had gone to Thor-burgh
and young Mrs. Harford had left her
husband simultaneously. Country post-offices
are not always as safe as confessionals in the
matter of telegrams, which isolated are suspicious,
and combined are confirmatory ; and
these two things put together made a whole far
too well-fitting to be ignored by folk with
ordinary senses and the faculty for guessing
riddles. The news went round in a whisper
that soon deepened into an audible voice
enough ; but Anthony at Thrift heard no echo,
and knew nothing of what was common property
to many. He had by uow given up the

search for hie lost love. No inquiry had fructified
in discovery, nor opened the narrowest
path to the heart of the truth. If she had
joined Charlie Osborne anywhere beyond the
seas, time would be the avenger. Meanwhile,
he must wait, like the captain left alone on the
wreck — all else lost and drowned.

c2

THE HOUR BEFORE DAWN.

CHAPTER I.

BY THE SEASHORE.

Two young people were sitting on a bench
facing the sea and under the shadow of the
ilex-trees. At a little distance, concealed from
view by an intervening rock, but within earshot,
two others, farther in the wood, had found
their place on a heap of stones brought down
by the winter torrents, and left there as a
foundation for fragrant plants and shallow-rooted
flowers. They were sitting hand-in-hand
close together — radiant with the glossy
happiness proper to a bride and bridegroom
satisfied with each other and themselves. He
was gallant, tender, caressing, and she was a
little shy, a little silly, and, as it might be surmised,

abashed, fluttered by her own sensations*
The two on the bench, in their turn, were
sitting close together, hand-in-hand. But there
was no flutter about them, if much tenderness ;
and their love had not the gloss of newness,
but rather the mellow depth of tone which
comes from the ease of accustomedness and
from length of time. They were sad rather
than radiant. He was thin and hollow-eyed,
with sunken cheeks of burning red, and with
a cough that told its own tale. She, too, was
thin and hollow-eyed, but her malady was not
the same as his. What was active disease in
him was reflected sorrow in her; and if he
could have been made whole she would have
become robust. Such as they were, however,
they sat together close — close — hand in-hand
like those who knew that they must soon part
for ever, and that only little of life was left
them for love.

Said the good-looking young bridegroom on
the heap of stones, with his clean-shaven face,
save for the delicate moustache which he caressed
lovingly :

'And you really think this better than Kings-house,
Annette ? You do not regret your fatal
step V

1 You silly boy,' answered his companion with
an embarrassed little laugh. It would be impolite
to call it a giggle.

But tell me, do you 1 I begin to think you
do. Tell me, my pretty birdie, do you regret it V

4 How can you be so silly ! Yes then, I do.
There now !' was the reply.

'Now you must do penance,' returned the
young man. And, after some scuffling among
the dry twigs and loosening stones, a few curiously
stifled * don't,' and as curiously-checked
laughter, the penance was duly performed, and
peace was re-established between the contending
parties.

'I wish mother was here to keep you in
order,' said the girl, as she settled her hat
which had got a little awry during the passage-alarms.


Do you V was the answer, made drily enough.
I cannot say that I do, much as I love the dear
old lady.'

Old ! Meddy !' said Annette, in a tone of
reproach. ' Why, she is not fifty yet ! That is
one of the funny things at Kingshouse — none of
the dowagers are old. Even the countess is not
what yon might call old ; and she is the most
ancient of them all.'

'No, I grant you they are a fine set of
matrons,' said Meddy. 'Upon my word, the
last time I saw your special love, Mrs. Clanri-
carde, she looked about thirty. She is a wonderful
get-up, I must say.'

Oh ! but she paints and dyes and does all
that,' said the bride, who four days ago was
Anne Aspline, and now was Mrs. Medlicott.
So no wonder she looks young, made-up as
she is. I wonder what has become of that
dreadful Mrs. Harford,' she added, after a pause.
'Fancy any well-brought-up girl leaving her
husband and baby for another man, and such a
man as that dawdling, affected, good-for-nothing
Mr. Osborne. It is really too dreadful ! Such
an awful shame !'

But it is not quite sure that she left. You
know it was thought she was killed,' said the

former curate of Kingshouse, now a full rector
on his own account. A gentle kind of deprecation
was in his voice. He was an amiable
young man, and did not like to hear ill-natured
things said of women. He was not so careful
of hirsute, muscular men ; but women, especially
when young and pretty, he defended and pronounced
' sacred,' holding them to be the chosen
vessels of grace and goodness. ' You see, no
trace of her has ever been found, and all that
we can say is but surmise.'

They both disappeared at the same time, so
of course they went away together,' returned
Anne, a little doggedly. The Clanricardes were
the reddest of all the red rags in her mental
store-closet. Good-natured to everyone else,
to them she was implacable. 'We all know
how madly in love with each other they were,
and how Estelle hated her marriage with that
awful bear — 1 don't blame her for that ! — and
how Mrs. Clanricarde manoeuvred the whole
thing and put that advertisement in the paper
and all that. So how could it end but as it
has?'

Assuredly logic and essential reasoning do
not make part of my wife's mental furniture
thought Mr. Medlicott, while he caressed his
moustache with one hand and held hers with
the other. ' Tell me, Annette,' he said suddenly ;
did that Harford man ever make love to you V

I don't know about making love,' said Anne
with a girlish laugh. ' He wanted to many me,
if that's what you call making love !'

4 The scoundrel ! — how dare he !' cried the
bridegroom with affected indignation. ' I shall
have to break his head for that !'

1 If you intend to break the heads of all who
liked me you will have enough to do, sir,' said
Anne, bridling.

Confess, little wretch — " excellent wretch !" :
said Mr. Medlicott. 'How many? Who? Tell
me, that I may make a note of them all, and
punish them as their presumption deserves.
Begin the roll-call. Lord Eustace ?'

1 Well, yes ; Lord Eustace liked me very
much,' said Anne bravely. ' I was always exceedingly
careful, though, not to give him any
encouragement, for I did not care about him

personally, and I had no fancy to be the wife
of a lord who had not enough money to keep
a house properly. So I always cold-shouldered
him, poor fellow ! And so I did Mr. Osborne,
who at one time was very sweet on me. I could
have got him away from Estelle Clanricarde if
I had liked. But I always despised him, and
would never have anything to say to him.'

1 Perhaps that monster of the money-bags,
that gnome of the mines, Mr. Stagg, looked at
you with those calf's eyes of his, and presumed
to think you fascinating and delightful ? — as you
are,' continued the gallant bridegroom, going
on with his interrogatory.

1 He !' said Anne, with something like a
scream. ■ No, indeed ! I would have made
him remember it to the last day of his life if he
had ! No. Lady Elizabeth may take him now
that Estelle Clanricarde cannot have him. He
is rich enough to buy even Lady Elizabeth, if
he likes.'

I suppose now that old Stagg is dead he has
an enormous income V said Mr. Medlicctt.

1 Enormous !' continued his wife. ' I don't

know how many thousands a year ! Far more
than he will know what to do with. What a
shame that such a creature should be so rich
and others so far his superiors so poor ! For
instance, the Kingshouscs themselves — for indeed
Lady Elizabeth is a noble creature !' she
added, her natural good-nature breaking through
the ill-tempered crust by which the Clanricarde
eidolon was surrounded.

But I fancy the poor monster is not a bad
monster at heart,' said the apologetic bridegroom.
' He is queer, but he is a good fellow
when you get at him.'

Perhaps,' was the reply. * He is so very
dreadful to look at that one can scarcely believe
he has any good in him ; but he ought to have,
poor fellow, for compensation, if for nothing
else !'

The law of compensation obtains everywhere
said Mr. Medlicott loftily. * Without it
we could not reconcile human life as we know
it with the benevolence of a superintending
Providence. That we know to exist ; hence,
logically we must have the law of compensation

to redress the over weighted balance and
make the uneven things come right in the end.'

Yes,' said Anne, giving his hand a little
squeeze. ' How beautifully you talk, Meddy !
How I love to listen to you when you say such
things as these !'

On which the two went off into the lovers'
paradise of babble, silliness and mutual flattery ;
and the listeners on the bench facing the sea got
up and slowly walked back on the narrow
mountain-path by which they had come.

They walked on in silence as they had sat, hearing
all that had been poured forth by the former
somewhat over-disdained antagonist. Estelle's
pale cheeks were paler still ; Charlie's had a yet
deeper flush. They were so entirely all in all
to each other — so shut out from the world and
society — they had as it were forgotten the existence
of those who knew their story. Love
which had united them had also been their high
priest ; and to neither her nor to him was it as if
they were living in sin or defying the laws. The
sin had been her marriage ; not now in their love ;
and her husband had no righteous cause of grief

against her in that she had left him. She alone
had the right to complain in that he had ever
taken her. This was their normal state of feeling
the child lying as a secret, unnamed, kind of
terror between them ; but when they heard the
talk of Anne and her husband they realized to
the full the position in which they stood, as the
world saw it and judged of it. They were
the guilty pair in those mournful regions which
the great Florentine traversed — they who had
lost life and fame for that one tremulous kiss.
Never separated, ever loving, they too were
miserable in the hell which they would have said,
when living, love would make a heaven. And
these two young people, who also had lost all
that makes life honourable among men, for the
love that had been denied them and the faith of
which they had been cheated, were no more
happy than were Francesca and Paolo, when
Dante fell as fall the dead for pity of their story.
The Nemesis we cannot escape, flee as fast as
we will, was creeping up to them daily nearer
and nearer. They had Love as their high priest,
truly, but Death was to be the Avenger : and

now they both, at least for the moment, understood
the dishonour which surrounded them as
things were, and which would close still more
closely round Estelle when he had gone.

'I have been a brute. 1 have been awfully
selfish said Charlie, suddenly breaking the
silence which had been so eloquent between
them. * I was carried away by the passion, the
despair of the moment ; but I should have had
more self-control — I should have resisted you
and myself too !'

Hush !' said Estelle, called back to herself as
his only, and not as any other's to hold or
disdain. ' I cannot bear you to say that,
Charlie. I would rather be with you than bethe
queen of the world. Do you think I care
for what such a silly, weak-minded girl as Anne
Aspline says? Do you think the blame of
such a creature as that touches my love for
you?'

Your devotion does not make me less a
selfish brute said Charlie, tears in his eyes and
voice.

She took his hand and carried it to her lips.

VOL. III. D

When I complain then blame yourself,' she
answered with infinite grace and tenderness.

4 But when I am dead, Estelle, who will you
have then to love and care for you ; to protect
you ; to make your life tolerable to you ? Then
you will find out to your sorrow all that you
have lost for me, my poor unselfish darling;
and I shall know it in heaven and be unhappy
in vain.'

I shall want no one,' she said. ' If you die,
Charlie, I shall die too. So that need not
trouble you here or in heaven. There is no
one I should care to live for — no one whose
love I would value if I had not you. No
one !'

She slightly shivered as she said this. The
image of the child she had left and abandoned
to the care of a hired nurse, whose temper and
heart she scarcely could guess and certainly did
not know, seemed to form itself before her from
the crossing threads of the radiant atmosphere
like a cloudy shape just there within her grasp.
But she shut her eyes and put the thing
resolutely away; and felt as if she had killed

something tender and beautiful, as she always
did when this thought possessed her — this image
appeared — and she would not receive it. Her
tenderness was in vain, at least for the moment.
Charlie would not be comforted. His conscience
was aroused, and not all her assurances could
lull it to sleep. Death was upon him, and he
knew it ; and perhaps the nearness of that great
revealer — that light of knowledge which comes
from the open grave into which we are about to
descend — showed him to himself as he was in
all his intrinsic egotism, and not as he had
fondly believed during all these years of self-flattery
and self-complacency. But it was so
painful to Estelle to hear these self-accusations,
that for very love and pity for her he ceased.
He was her idol, and the god enshrined in him
was the dearest of all in the Pantheon. To fk)d
aught in him less than perfect was blasphemy,
even from his own lips; and she cared more
that he should be happy than clear-sighted.
So the little flame of righteous severity that had
blazed up in his soul died down again, put outby
the breath of her adoration ; and they went

D 2

back to their normal attitude of perfection on
his side and devotion on hers — and by reason of
that perfection and his love for her, his worthiness
of all the sacrifice she had made.

After this unintentional eavesdropping, however,
a certain nameless something came over
both Estella and Charlie. It was not that they
loved each other less, but they were even more
unhappy than before — and unhappy in a different
way. Something beside the sorrow of that
all too certain separation was on them — something
that stung him, and that made her as it
were timid and in one sense reserved. They
had lived in the fool's paradise of love and had
forgotten the world without. Now, Anne As-line's
words had brought them back to the
consciousness of the life that was beyond and
without their own, and to the laws they had
broken. But Estelle fought the most vigorously
against the new spirit. She had not the
same kind of self-reproach as that which haunted
her lover. She had done him no harm ; and her
own sin she would bear for his sake. But the
sorrow that was over the dying man was hard

to see and impossible to remove ; and she was
often like one who has already gone down
into Hades, where no light is and no joy can
live.

CHAPTER II.

THE FINGER OF SCORN.

The last three days had been sultry and oppressive.
Not a breath of air stirred the sensitive
leaves of the olive ; not a ripple ruffled the
deep blue waters of the sea. The birds ceased
to sing, but chirped incessantly and new hither
and thither as if restless with some alarm. Some
dogs howled and some barked, but without
apparent cause ; some, again, lay speechless and
drowsy ; and others were on the alert, scenting
imaginary game and sniffing curiously at all
cracks and crevices. Horses were either restive
or sullen ; and when they did not plunge and
kick they jibbed and refused to go. Those who
knew these signs looked anxious, as men foreseeing

a catastrophe. Those who did not,
merely grumbled at the heat, fanning themselves
in vain for the coolness they could not
catch. Invalids suffered more than usual, and
children cried without cause. All nature seemed
distressed, and where there was no distinct apprehension
there was vague uneasiness.

On the third day all these signs had increased
in intensity. One would have said that some
viewless Terror was hovering in the air over
the mountains and the seaboard. The stillness
was appalling. That breathless pause before
the mortal throe seemed to hold all life in suspense.
And then came the moment. Strange
noises were heard in the earth like underground
thundering or the muffled roar of an imprisoned
creature in wrath and pain. The trees swayed
as if a mighty wind had stirred the branches
and loosened the roots. The solid earth quivered
and rocked. Huge boulders detached themselves
from the mountains and fell thundering
down the sides, carrying with them avalanches
of smaller stones, crashing and destroying all
before them. Houses fell into ruins as if

pounded into heaps of dust. Here and there
the earth opened and engulphed fields and
farms and orchards where it was riven asunder ;
while over all the tumult rose the voice of
human agony, going up to the pitiless heaven
in one great cry that was half a reproach to
the Force which hurt, and half a prayer to the
Power which could save.

The dwellers on the mountain slopes and in
the upper valleys suffered more than those
of the seaboard and the plain. Villages were
wrecked in their entirety, so that not a house
remained standing where there had been happy
homes and flourishing farmsteads, and all the fine
results of human activity and intelligence. From
under the ruins came voices of complaint and
pitiful entreaties for help. Here and there a
limb, left uncovered by the mass of stones and
masonry which had crushed the rest of the body,
told the sobbing searchers that the father, the
mother, the child, the spouse, lay buried there,
slain in this great convulsion which had destroyed
so much beside. It was a time of
universal wailing, and there was not a family

which had not lost in love or in gear — and
almost all had lost in both. The people, panic-stricken,
and in a manner paralyzed by their
terror, rushed for safety to the churches. Hereat
least, was a holy refuge from the Wrath that
was upon them. The Hand of God would
spare His own house — and the priest, His interpreter,
would stand between them and the doom
threatening to overtake them all. But the
church was no safer than the cottage. It fell ;
and in its fall priests and penitents alike were
sent to their last account, unconfessed and unabsolved.
Then the last ray of hope was
quenched in the hearts of the simple folk who
still believed in spiritual nostrums against physical
disaster ; and some sat down among the
ruins as if turned themselves to stone ; and some
fled shrieking through the olive groves and
chestnut woods — or, if not shrieking, then laughing
with that wild, maniacal laughter which is
worse to hear than sobs and groans.

Down on the seaboard, where the strangers
from far-off lands congregated, things were bad,
but not so bad as higher up in the hills. Here

there was, on the whole, more fear than damage.
Hotels shook and cracked but did not fall ; and
the invalids who had come here for the sunshine
of the sweet South, suffered more from terror
and exposure than from actual bodily hurt. A
few seasoned travellers and cool-witted philosophers
remained quietly in bed, where the
shocks found them ; but for the most part the
inmates of those motley caravanserais streamed
out like a flock of startled sparrows, and some
among them gave that comic element to the
scene which by contrast deepened the tragic.
Of these a certain few never got over the exposure
of their nude and undressed faces. The
beauty of the evening, thirty at the outside,
now appeared as she was, the faded wreck of
fifty; and the well-set-up young man, who
passed for less than forty, now showed as more
than sixty. Wigless, toothless, roughness, patent
and confessed for what they were — for the most
part draped in blankets and crazed with terror
they, when they came to their right senses,
never forgave Nature the shabby trick she had
played them, but disappeared from the scene by

noonday like the ghosts which vanish at cockcrow.
And side by side with these exquisite
Polichinelles were the invalids who came forth
to die ; and the young, fresh, unspoiled human
flowers who had no cause to fear the revelation
of the sun nor to shrink from the confession of
themselves as they were.

Among these were the 'two young lovers
lately wed' — Anne Aspline and her husband,
Mr. Medlicott. Frightened, as she assuredly
was, Anne had yet not lost her nerve to the
extent of appearing in such unbuttoned deshabille
as many. She had found time to put on
her shoes and stockings, and to fasten her morning
gown with all its bows and streamers. Her
hair was decently coiled about her small head
with the ears like jug-handles ; and, in the curious
medley of the unmasked and the undressed,
she and her husband had a quite refreshing air
of order, cleanliness, and British propriety.
Anne was no more indifferent to earthquakes
than the rest, but she dreaded the loss of her
clean, smooth, well-conducted propriety more
than the loss of life itself. Had she had to

repeat Virginia's choice, she would have followed
Virginia's example, and have chosen a decent
drowning rather than a nude salvation.

Sitting there in the garden, well out of the
risk of danger from the walls — should they fall
like those of Jericho at the sound of a more
formidable trumpet than Joshua's — facing the
sea, which now was strangely agitated and mud-coloured
— not blue — Anne and her husband
talked together, as everyone else talked, of the
solemn facts of the hour. But where she was
mainly interested in the hours when the trains
would leave for Paris, he delivered himself, for
the advantage of those within hearing, of that
essentially clerical philosophy which tries to reconcile
the blind, the irresistible, the indiscriminating
action of cosmic forces with the careful
superintendence of a personal Providence looking
after individual interests. It is a philosophy
which has all the soothing effects of a repetition
of * Mesopotamia ;' and Mr. Medlicott soon
gathered round him a small audience of those
who attended the English church regularly on
the Sundays, and went as regularly to Monte

Carlo all the other days of the week. It was
quite a triumph for the handsome young clergyman
with the military air. His discourse betokened
so many valuable qualities. Presence
of mind, physical courage, sublime faith, scientific
knowledge, and that intimate acquaintance
with the Divine Will which endues a man with
ambassadorial functions — all these were manifest
in the young clergyman's harangue, and
made their mark accordingly; while Anne, in
her turn, set an example of neatness, propriety,
self-respect and feminine modesty, not without
its value in the midst of the buttonless and
unbraced crowd, which had but one sentiment
that of craven personal fear.

The hotel-keeper, with whom the exigencies
of his position had conquered his own private
alarm, was beyond measure grateful to these
two young people who set so good an example
and did so much to tranquillize the frightened
crowd. He came up to them and thanked them
warmly — taking them by the hand — kissing
madame's with an effusiveness that made Anne
blush deeply, though conscious that such fires

might have been in that fervid salute was, as
it were, extinguished by the tears which stood
in those large soft Southern eyes and fell down
those large soft pendant cheeks. All danger
was past, he said ; there would be no more
shocks. He knew the signs, and they had passed
the crisis. He spoke with quite as much confidence
as the young clergyman ; and he had
some good effect on his hearers. Spiritual
assurance and practical experience together
worked a miracle of mental healing on these
distracted folk. Men began to laugh and pretty
women to giggle, while a few of the more
courageous stole back into the hotel to adorn
themselves as usual, and to make sure of their
valuables, left open to pilferers in the haste of
the moment. And while they were all dispersed
in this wise, there came two more shocks as
violent as the first had been, and the whole
scene of terror and distraction was enacted
anew.

The recurrent shocks finished the ruin of the
upper villages, and sent the inhabitants moaning
to the plain and seaboard. Such visitors as had

taken houses for the season in the upper valleys
suddenly found themselves homeless, and were
forced down with the rest. There was no
bivouacking on heaps of stones and rubbish for
decent people accustomed to luxuries ; no camping
out under the canopy of the skies for
invalids whose chests were unsound and whose
coughs were resonant. Hence, as the seaboard
had suffered less than the valleys, the dwellers
in these last came down to take their chance
of future ruin — at all events, a more favourable
chance than their own. By the late evening,
however, everything was quieter. There had
been no more shocks since the early morning ;
the abnormal appearances of nature had passed,
and the beasts and birds had returned to their
usual habits. The more timid of the visitors
had taken flight for lands where earthquakes
are unknown ; and things wore more their
everyday appearance. There were always the
ruined houses and the sobbing multitudes whom
the wreck had plunged into abject poverty —
always the traces of that dread infliction which
the clergy said had been sent by an angry

Deity as punishment for sins ; but a little
external order had come back over the face of
chaos, and Anne and her husband had mainly
contributed to the human part of it.

They were sitting in the same place as before,
in the garden facing the sea, and surrounded
by the same admiring audience. Mr. Medlicott
was in his true element, and Anne shared in the
triumph of her husband. Providence had been
so kind to them ! Down there on the road
were groups of desolate men and bereaved
women — families face to face with famine —
husbands who had lost the women they loved —
mothers who themselves had dug out from the
wreck the maimed bodies of their children —
lovers parted for ever from the beloved — every
kind of suffering, every form of woe— to the
strong man maimed for life and the woman
rendered imbecile till she dies. Of these no
account was taken in the sum of gratitude for
individual preservation. That the Divine Hand
had pressed heavily on these was one matter ;
that it had not crushed themselves, but had,
instead, sustained and protected, was another.

The troubles of others did not cool the fervour
of the young clergyman's discourse, by which
he raised the hearts of his hearers and brought
tears of gratitude to their eyes.

He was at one of the most moving passages
of his extra-official thanksgiving, when a hired
carriage drove through the gate and up to the
house door. It contained a young man and
woman with a very slender amount of luggage
and as small a stock of health. He, indeed, was
dying; she, as evidently fragile and brokenhearted,
had yet a strangely resolute look in
her gentle face, giving the impression of one
keeping up by force of will for a special reason
and a definite time — and then? They were
among those whose habitation had been wrecked
by the earthquake ; and they had been the
whole day foodless, helpless, strained — unable
to find a conveyance to take them down to the
hotels on the seashore, and with but little left
of their modest possessions. They had scarce
enough, indeed, for current needs; and what
money they had was buried in the ruins. Still,
they must live — and there was always that old

VOL. III. E

friend and her no longer mysterious mistress to
fall back on. The landlord of the hotel, who had
lost fully half of his guests, was glad enough to
see this new arrival, unpromising as it looked.
He took in the situation at a glance ; but these
English milords have inexhaustible supplies in
their own country, and a day's accident is nota
life's disaster. He was welcoming the young
people in his best manner when the group
in the garden broke up. It was time to come
in to dress for table-d'hote. Besides, that extraordinary
curiosity which possesses all English
people abroad, drove them to inspect these newcomers
and form conjectures as to their condition,
status, history, and the like.

Last of all the little crowd filtering through
the door, came Mr. and Mrs. Medlicott— he,
sedately jubilant because of the good words
he had said, the good seed he had sown, and
the impression he had made on hearts not
always too ready to receive such wholesome
touches ; she, proud of her husband, and feeling
a certain national pride as well as spiritual satisfaction
in the testimony he had just borne.

God had verily been good to them, and it
behoved them to be grateful ! As they passed
through the doorway into the hall they stood face
to face with the new arrivals. Charlie, pale and
half-fainting, was sitting on the hall settee,
coughing in the intervals of returning consciousness.
Estelle was beside him, holding his
head against her breast. The clean and well-regulated
soul of Anne revolted at this rampant
impropriety. Her whole being cried out shame
and repudiation. She felt it to be impossible
to stop under the same roof with these hardened
sinners — these unmarried lovers who bore their
iniquity so unblushingly. All the pride that she
herself had in her lawful wedded state seemed
to sink into the mire — to fall to the base level
of this illegal union. If these creatures — this
adulterer and his concubine — were received on
an equality with herself and her consecrated
spouse, where would she stand? and would it
not be an insult to herself and to her pure and
holy state ? And beside and beyond these rushing
thoughts of indignant propriety was one in
the background of her consciousness — not ace

2 Ui^ lv

knowledge d, not recognized, but none the less
there. It was the scorned woman's natural desire
for revenge when the tables are turned, and she
who had once held herself too high for association
is now fallen — fallen into the depths where
she may be spurned and scourged and driven
forth by the one whom formerly she repudiated.

No sense of pity stirred the white soul of the
once pure maiden, and the now no less pure
because the lawful wife. No human instinct of
compassion for the dying man, of sorrow for the
agonized woman, weakened the holy wrath of
spiritual condemnation which possessed her with
almost prophetic power. She — Anne Aspline,
usually so quiet, so unobtrusive, so undemonstrative
— left her husband's side, and with the
air and manner of an indignant pythoness, pointing
to the two sitting there in their misery, said
to the landlord in a loud voice :

If you take these two unmarried people into
your house, I and my husband will leave it.'

Had a thunderbolt fallen or another earthquake
shaken the house, the consternation of
all assembled would not have been greater. The

hall was full of servants and visitors, glad of an
interruption to the sombre events of the day,
and to all, Anne's voice — clear, vibrating, raised
high in the passion of her protest — came like a
silver trumpet from the altar.

They are not married,' she repeated ; * and
that woman has left her husband and her child.'

A murmur of reproach ran through the English.
The native servants, however, looked at one
another with a shrug that said : * What of
that ! Monsieur is dying, and madame is
beautiful !'

Only one English person ventured on compassion.
This was a woman, no longer young in
years but still young in heart, and she went upto
Charlie and Estelle, and, ignoring what had
been said by Mrs. Medlicott, asked them with
infinite kindness if she could be of any use to
them % and what would they do ? where would
they go ? For the hotel-keeper, driven to the
necessity of choice, had, wisely for himself,
determined to keep the two who already had
done his house some good, and whose departure
would probably draw others away — and had

told those poor young new-comers, without too
great expenditure of* courtesy, that they must
leave now on the instant— he would not give
them rooms.

There are other hotels,' said Estelle with all
her old quiet dignity.

She neither failed nor blenched. This small
spite of the former cook's daughter fell from her
as something utterly unimportant. Side by
side with her darling's state, what mattered it,
or aught else? She was only sorry that she
had to go forth to find another place. He was
too fatigued already. But even that must be
borne, and bravely.

Your poor gentleman looks too ill for much
exertion,' said the lady.

I would not stay here with that woman if I
could,' said Charlie, with a sick man's petulance.
Come, Estelle, let us get out of this place. It
is pestilential, with that creature here !'

He spoke too feebly to be heard beyond those
immediately beside him; and both Anne and
her husband lost the words which, had they
heard, would have added fuel to the already

raging flames. As it was, Mr. Medlicott was
left free to regret the somewhat over-harsh
Puritanism of his wife. Though not specially
large-minded, he was of a broader and more
generous mental build than Anne ; and on such
a day as this, when all of human life and ordering
had been so tossed and wrecked, he thought
he would for his own part have kept silence
over those missing marriage-lines, and have
given the dying man peace and a place of rest.
But he could not rebuke his wife, neither before
folk nor in their private room — though he
thought her purity too hard and too aggressive.
Still, purity is such a necessity for woman ! —
better have it in excess than not enough. And
yet — and yet — his heart went out to those
desolate transgressors. That poor fellow was
so evidently on his last legs, and Estelle was so
infinitely lovely and so pathetic in her beauty.

But nothing could be done. The thunderbolt
had been launched and the consequences
must be submitted to. Kindly helped by the
porters to whom the master made a sign, and
accompanied by the lady who had spoken to

them, a certain Mrs. Ellison, the two poor
banished and outraged exiles — these descendants
of the peccant pair who ate the forbidden
fruit — went slowly out into the chill dusk of the
dying day to seek for an asylum where there
was no Anne Aspline to denounce them, and
where their certificate of marriage was not
asked for.

But all through that weary night there
sounded in Estelle's ears the murmur of virtuous
abhorrence and the rustling as of the
drawing away of skirts which had greeted the
damning announcement that she was no wife,
but an adulteress and a concubine — a faithless
wife and an unnatural mother — and that the
man she loved and lived with was not her husband,
but a fraud and a disgrace from whom, as
from her, all honest women and honourable men
did well to shrink.

CHAPTER III.

'YOU, ONCE MORE!'

ANTHONY was not the kind of man to take the
world into his confidence. He neither sulked
in his tents, like Achilles, nor showed his gaping
wounds as his namesake showed those of
Great Caesar. He neither shirked his public
duties for avoidance of contact with his fellowmen,
nor madly rushed into dissipation for the
better drowning of his sorrows. So far as outward
conduct went, it would have seemed that
no storm had destroyed his harvest, no earthquake
shaken his roof-tree to the ground. Save
that he was so lean in form and livid in face — so
curt of speech and as bitter as curt — so evidently
dangerous to all the limber-tongued and loose-handed

— lie was the same as ever ; and none but
himself was his confidant.

Time, as he sped on his endless way, placed a
few social gravestones and opened out some new
paths at Thorbergh. Among these last was the
advent of the Smythe Smiths. The old family
of the Massingberds, which had held the estate
of Upperfold for as many generations as lie
between to-day and the Third Edward, pinched
between increased debts and decreased rents,
found themselves at last obliged to sell; and
Mr. Smythe Smith was the purchaser. Of
course the Blue Blood of the neighbourhood
resented the change, and felt disposed to make
the new-comer understand its resentment. But
more modern, and perhaps more wise counsels
prevailed, and the rich merchant was adopted
in the room of the ruined gentleman whom he
had dispossessed, and forgiven the fact that he
had never a grandfather, nor an inherited coat-of-arms,
nor knew Greek from Hebrew, nor
Spanish from French, and that he could no more
have construed 'Lucri bonus est odor, ex re
quolibet ' than could the Unfortunate Nobleman

himself. He was rich, therefore he would
be an acquisition ; he was long-headed and
with the methodical habits of a man of business,
and so far would help to keep things parochial
and communal in order. And then Anthony
Harford — undoubtedly the most considerable
man in the district — knowing nothing of
those hidden threads which bound their two
fates together, threw the shield of his protection
round the new-comers from the beginning ;
and the neighbourhood naturally followed suit.
So that the Smythe Smiths were soon included
in the society of the place, and Anthony
was the one who had done most for their
adoption.

Naturally enough the Smythe Smiths were
pained by the ingratitude, as it seemed to them,
of Charlie Osborne's silence. They had been
his true and valuable backers when he most
needed help, and had, moreover, given him
affection in excess of patronage. Mr. Smythe
Smith had really liked him — quite as much as a
rich middle-aged man of business could be expected
to like a handsome young artist without

a balance at his bank or a margin silently rolling
itself up. And Mrs. Smythe Smith had
been yet more warmly attached to him. If she
had not suffered her fondness to overflow the
banks of matronly discretion and trickle down
into the bitter-sweet garden of unlawful love,
it was not for want of inner temptation, but because
she had resisted that temptation, and
stuck manfully to propriety, quasi-maternity,
and her husband. So that when Charlie disappeared
out of sight, as if he had never been
born or had gone over the rapids of Niagara —
after that one visit in London on his return from
Japan, fever, and his reported death, and that
one brief letter from Kingshouse — the Smythe
Smiths were naturally indignant, and thought no
word too hard for the young man who erst had
been their minor kind of modernized Apollo or
their Rafael in patent leather. If he had been
what he ought to have been, and done as he
ought to have done, they would have given
him this other grand commission of Upperfold ;
but as things were they went to other men who
charged them as much again as Charlie had

done — were never domesticated to the tame-cat
condition to which he had attained — and did
not put in such good work nor give themselves
so much trouble as the young fellow
who had wrought for love, fame, money, and
artistic pleasure all round. And up to this
time Anthony had never heard them mention
the name of their disappointing young friend
and decorative artist, and knew nothing of those
former relations.

Lady Elizabeth, with whom the Smythe
Smiths had always kept up a friendly correspondence,
and who not infrequently had her
to stay with them in London, knew no more
than themselves what had befallen the former
Eudemon of Kingshouse. That he had been
and now was not, comprised the sum of her
acquaintance with things Osborne. She did
not even know that he had gone to Thorbergh
that fact which all Kingshouse had seized
and digested to found a thousand theories on
its frail basis. But then Lady Elizabeth was
always the last to hear news of the kind which
is good for hypothesis rather than an addition

to knowledge. She was not a gossip in her
own person, and those who were gossips kept
their wallets unopened when they were with
her. Of the existence of Mrs. Latimer and
Mary Crosby she was also ignorant ; so that she
had no news to bring when she came to Upper-fold
on an early visit after the installation —
Mrs. Smythe Smith not being averse from
showing to their new society at their new place
a live earl's fair-faced daughter as one of her
friendly intimates.

There had been more changes than one of
late. That we know. Among them was a certain
change in Lady Elizabeth. Something
had gone from her and something had been
added to her. Her saintly quietude had gone,
and in its place had come a certain active vitality,
as of one whose softness has been tempered
by fire and whose sympathy has become consciousness.
It was the picture on the wax
bitten into the plate by acid. She looked as if
she had learned some lessons in a harder school
than of yore — as if she had been through the
fire on her own account. She was older ; less

beautiful in one way if more so in another ; as
if more knit together, and, in a sense, more
passionate, more vitalized. She had fought
with her wild beasts at Ephesus, and had conquered,
not without loss and scars ; but her
combat had been of more service than she
knew. It had left her less the angel than the
woman ; and her own personal experience of
suffering made the whole difference between the
sympathy that is born of pure pity and that
which comes from knowledge.

She was standing on the one low broad step
which was the entrance to Upperfold, waiting
for her host. The groom was holding the 
for herself and Mr. Smythe Smith.
Mrs. Smythe Smith was not a horsewoman, and
she was, moreover, occupied to-day with directing
the hanging of certain pictures which had
just come from London for the small drawing-room.
It was one of those days in March which
have been borrowed from May — a day, not according
to the old Northern doggerel of the
borrowed days of March, but a true harbinger,
a real messenger of spring, accredited and bearing

the insignia. The warm south wind blew
soft and sweet, as if it brought the scent of
violets and the promise of roses. It stirred the
leafless branches and quickened the sluggish
sap slowly rising beneath the bark. It woke
up something beneath the soil which sent a
thrill through the sleeping roots of the hidden
plants and flung a richer tint over the pointed
blades of the growing grass. It was like May
in good sooth — May, with its hopes and joys,
its promises and expectations ; and Lady Elizabeth,
like all other living creatures, felt the
sweet influences of the hour, and opened her
white soul to the rosier rays of life, as a flower
unfolds its petals to the sun.

She made a pretty picture as she stood thereon
the step, framed by the bold columns of the
portico. Her riding-habit, free of all millinery
excrescences, clung about her graceful figure as
if some Greek sculptor had arranged the lines ;
and her hat cast over her brow that kind of
shadow which so much enhances the beauty of
the eyes. She was not thinking so much as
feeling — and feeling as she had done for one

brief period in the days gone by. A new influx of
youth and possible joy seemed to have invaded
her brain and blood with that suggested scent
of violets and promise of roses. The grey ashes
of her life seemed to be fanned again into flame.
She felt happy, she did not know why ; and for
no reason that she could have given, had she
been asked, her sweet, sad mouth relaxed into
a smile, and the light in her grave eyes shone
like the light of love and the flash of happy
laughter. And as she stood there, more like the
Delight of Anthony's first clays at Kingshouse
than she had been since the hour when he had
all but seen her weakness and divined her
secret, Anthony himself came riding through
the lodge-gates and up to the house, like the
embodied spirit of the past — the human form of
her sensations.

Before she had realized things as they were,
and while she was still in that current of the
past, where she had been swept backward by the
day, Anthony had flung himself from his horse
and had her hands in his — both her hands in
both of his— as in the old days when he half

VOL. III. F

thought he loved her and half proposed to himself
to ask her to be his wife.

For the moment Lady Elizabeth forgot all
that lay between now and then — between the
day when Anthony Harford was free to love
whom he would, and when to love him was
neither shame nor sin — and this present moment,
when the pale spectre of Estelle stood as the
sacred barrier between him and all other women
on earth ; when love for him was crime and his
love in return dishonour. She forgot all that
she had suffered, all that she had subdued. This
sudden re-appearance of the only man she had
ever loved brought back to her both the strength
and the weakness of her love. It was not Estelle's
husband who held her hands in his and
into whose eyes she looked. It was the Love
she had loved — the dream which she had once
taken for truth.

1 Ah !' she said somewhat below her breath,
and not knowing too well what it was she said
at all ; * you, once more !'

Yes ; I once more,' he returned a little
grimly.

He was glad to see her, this dear Delight,
who had been his as all others; but her personality
was so inextricably interwoven with the
memory of the greatest glory and the deepest
shame — the purest joy and the blackest sorrow
of his life — that he remembered what she forgot.
Where with her, Estelle was swept into oblivion,
with him she stood at her right hand, and
through the grey eyes of this fair Delight
seemed to look the dark orbs of his lost love.
Then suddenly he let go her hands, and almost
mechanically felt for that revolver in his pocket,
which he touched as a Catholic might touch his
sacred relic.

At this moment Mr. Smythe Smith came
through the hall, and all significance in the
meeting was at once destroyed.

For Lady Elizabeth the south wind ceased
to blow, and the silvery backwater of the past
became the grey and stagnant present. Anthony
Harford was no longer the Love she had
loved but the husband of a missing wife — one
not known to be dead nor known to be erring —
but still the sacred barrier between him and all

f2

other women. He might come with them, as he
did, and so far repeat the circumstances of that
enchanted ride at Kingshouse when he joined
her and her father — but how different it all was f
She wished now that she had not accepted the
Smythe Smiths' invitation to Upperfold. She
had believed herself stronger than she was.
She had thought she could meet him again
without pain or regret — and she had failed to
herself and to her highest sense of right. All
this she thought in those intervals of silence
which are like sobs ; while, as they rode along
the lanes, Anthony plucked from her presence
only the nightshade-like memory of Estelle,
and felt as if her advent had brought him so
much the nearer to his revenge.

CHAPTER IV.

LIKE OLD TIMES,

After that first flush and failing, when the
suddenness of surprise tore aside the veil, Lady
Elizabeth ' held on to herself,' according to the
quaint Puritanical phrase. Her mind underwent
no more lapses of memory, nor did her
feelings flow back into old channels. Anthony
Harford was married. Failing proof positive of
poor Estelle's death, he was no honest woman's
love ; and friendship was all that could be
between one who respected herself and him.
But there might be friendship. No law of God
nor man forbade that ! And, indeed, there was
a friendship — pure, sincere, unabashed, undismayed.
It was the sole flower that grew up

in the sandy desert of their lives, and they
tended it with as much loving care as self-reverence.


They saw a great deal of Anthony at Upper-fold
— undoubtedly more than they saw of anyone
else in the neighbourhood, or than anyone
else in the neighbourhood saw of him. When
he had no magisterial duties on hand — when
the business of the estate did not demand his
personal direction — when he was more than
usually tired of himself and angry with fate —
when all things in the past had left a yet
bitterer taste in his mouth, and the brightest
fact of the present was only Dead-Sea fruit —
then he mounted his horse and rode off to
Upperfold — ostensibly to visit the Smythe
Smiths; in reality to talk to Lady Elizabeth.
Her voice and manner soothed him as the harp
of the Sweet Singer of Israel soothed the tormented
spirit of the king. Her mere presence
was enough. They never came near to the
central thought of both alike ; but each felt that
the other was in sympathy, and Anthony knew
that he might, when he would, open his heart

and pour out its griefs. He would be understood.

As yet he had said never a word of direct
allusion to Estelle. That revolver in his pocket
was more in his line. Once and once only he
brushed by the skirts of his lost Eurydice — she
whom the dread gods had taken, or who had
sunk herself to the lowest depths of Hades.

You must come to Thrift,' he said to Lady
Elizabeth. ' I want you to see my boy. I
am sure you will see the likeness. It is so
strong — there are days when I cannot look at
him.'

I should like to see him very much indeed
said Lady Elizabeth quite simply. * You know
how much I loved her.'

Yes, I know,' said Anthony ; and the talk fell
there.

He could not speak of Estelle even to her —
at least, not yet. It would come ; but not just
yet ; and she knew that it would come. She
knew enough of human nature to be able to
foresee so much. Friendship and reticence conquer
the deepest reserve in the long run ; and
there are times with us all when sorrow rises so

high it overflows the heart and mounts perforce
to the lips. Then the safe friend is trusted ; and
the grief that is shared by sympathy is lightened
by just so much.

Things of public interest had not been wanting
of late as topics for conversation. For instance,
there was that marriage of Anthony's
childish plaything to the military-looking parson
who had formerly been curate at Kingshouse ;
and the escape they had had in the late earthquakes
on the Riviera — so soon after their marriage,
too ; such an uncomfortable experience !
but how well they had behaved ! Anthony had
no idea the pretty little cuss had so much good
sense ; and he would not have given her husband
credit for his share, evidenced by his conduct.
For public mention had been made in
the papers of the coolness and presence of mind
of the English clergyman, Mr. Medlicott, and of
his wife, and of the tranquillizing effect they had
had on the more nervous and less composed.
A list too had been given of the English visitors ;
and thus they knew twice over that the Kings-house
bride and bridegroom were safe and had

sustained no damage. They recognized in the
list a name here and there of some one known
in private or public ; but neither saw more in
Mr. and Mrs. Charles ' than the patronymic of
unknown and unimportant people. So passed
some days — days indeed, lengthening into weeks
for all gossip took a long time to reach the
Dower House, and a still longer time to transmit;
and then Lady Elizabeth received a letter
from her mother which froze the blood about
her heart and flung her into the depths of moral
perplexity.

Anne had, naturally enough, written to her
mother the full account of what had happened
not only the story as the press gave it, but
that other even graver fact of how she had met
that infamous couple — those sad and fleeting
forms of the modern Francesca and Paolo, for
whom she had not had the great Florentine's
sweet pity. She told, instead, how she had confronted
these sinful outcasts, denounced them as
impure and branded them with their shame in
the face of the world ; how she had refused to
remain under the same roof with one whose

unhallowed wedding-ring, that desecrated symbol
— twice desecrated — soiled the purity of her
own wedding wreath ; how she had seen them
cast forth like sin-laden goats, bearing the burden
of their guilt with them. She wrote a long
and, for her, an impassioned letter. Life, which
had once been all a vaporous dream, had so
suddenly consolidated itself into realities that
she was for the moment bewildered in her ethics
and a little off her balance. Her cruelty she
took to be virtue ; her unworthiness was noble
testimony : her bride's vanity and pride of exclusiveness
were the promptings of purity ; her
former jealousy and resentment, quiescent then
and now active, were the righteous retribution
due to hypocrisy and the stripping off a mask
which had been worn too long. Hence she
glorified herself in what she had done ; and her
mother took the same line. For nothing on earth
is more cruel than the purity of a thin nature
and narrow brain — nothing harder than the dealing
of certain women who have kept on the
right side of the line for those who have strayed
to the left. And Anne and her mother were of

this kind. Lady Kingshouse was not. She and
her daughter could afford to be pitiful. They
were pure enough to be generous ; and when
she wrote the lady spoke gently of poor Estelle,
and while condemning the sin spared the sinner.
It was not long after this letter that Anthony
and Lady Elizabeth found themselves alone in
the gardens at (Jpperfold. Mr. Smythe Smith
had gone for the day to the nearest town. Mrs.
Smythe Smith had a headache and was invisible.
Lady Elizabeth had refused the offer of a solitary
drive with the coachman in the dog-cart, or of a
solitary ride with the groom through the lanes.
She would content herself with the garden, she
said, being of that sweet, unselfish kind who are
so soon content ! While walking there in the
higher shrubbery, Anthony rode through the
gate and caught sight of her in her leafless
bower, where, however, snowdrops and early celandine
were springing at her feet, and hawthorn
twigs were showing red and green. He gave
his horse to the groom, when he learnt that Mrs.
Smythe Smith was not visible, and strode off to
join his friend, who came down the path to meet

him. She was more sorrowful and perplexed
than he knew of. With that letter in her pocket,
and his uncertainty of knowledge, it was difficult
to know what to do — what was the right
thing to do : — to tell the truth and betray
Estelle's sad secret, or to keep silent and see
Anthony's terrible wound still bleed untouched.
He was too miserable himself to-day to catch
the trouble on her face. Old love had burnt
anew, old sorrows had wept afresh. The coming
spring had touched him as it touched all other
living things — and, with the nesting birds and
budding foliage, came thoughts of Estelle.

They sat down on a sheltered seat set under
the hill and open to the south. For a moment
there was deep silence between them ; then
suddenly Anthony spoke — looking not at Lady
Elizabeth, but far out into the distance.

If I only knew the truth !' he said. ' If I
did but know ! Living or dead — false or only
unhappy — which is it V

AVhat would you do if you did know?' asked
Lady Elizabeth, she too looking into the dim
distance.

He brought his eyes back from space
and fixed them on hers. He bent forward
as one crouching for a spring, and laid his
hand on her arm, gripping it till he bruised
the tender flesh as if his fingers had been of
iron.

What would I do V he repeated, in a low
voice. He took out his revolver. » This,' he
said. * If false, I would kill her ; if only-estranged
I would woo her back to me again.
But it would be this !'

Lady Elizabeth confronted him, her eyes looking
as steadily into his as his into hers.

1 1 cannot believe you', she said with grave
rebuke. ' You were not a willing murderer
when I first knew you !'

Other times, other manners,' he answered
with a bitter laugh. ' When I first knew you I
was not a disgraced husband set up for the
world to ridicule. I had not loved and been
betrayed. I had not a wife who had left me
and her child, and hidden herself so closely
away as to make me unable to find the
faintest trace of her footsteps. Men are not

puppets, Lady Elizabeth ; least of all, such a
man as I.'

But to commit murder for revenge is being
worse than a puppet,' she returned steadily.
4 It is being the mere creature of your own
passions, guided and governed by them and not
by yourself.'

Not in the least,' he said in the same bitter
manner. ' I assure you I should take her life,
if I found she had been false to me, as deliberately
as I would kill a snake or any other living
thing whose nature is to work woe to men.
She should not have the chance to break another
honest man's heart nor wreck another honourable
home !'

4 You seem to forget there is such a virtue as
forgiveness,' she said.

Forgiveness is for fools,' he returned. 4 Strong
men never forgive

On the contrary she answered quickly ; * it
is the strong only who can forgive — who dare
to be magnanimous. It is the weak who must
have revenge when they are injured, because
they are too weak and too vain to forgive.'

You are explicit, at all events,' said Anthony,
his lip lifted and his dark eyes blazing.

Because I respect you more than you respect
yourself,' was her reply. ' Because what seems
to you quite a natural and lawful thing to do,
now in the moment of your anger, seems to mea
dishonour against your nobler self — high treason
against the real man you are.'

Sugar to coat the pill !' he said.

She laid her hand on his and looked at him
with more love than she knew of shining in her
clear eyes.

6 No, friendship and respect shown in the very
fact of daring to say unpleasant truths ; belief
in the real man in spite of the false appearance
born of anger and distress.'

She spoke from her heart, and her voice was
as soft and musical as her feeling was pure and
tender. But Anthony was in no mood to bewitched
or softened.

'And I suppose you would have me to be
one of your curd-blooded crew V he said with a
sneer. « You would have me take her back
from her paramour, when he had tired of her,

and reinstate her here at Thrift as its mistress
and my wife ? Then I would be " magnanimous,"
"noble," " manly," and all the rest of the
litany which women intone for the benefit of an
erring sister whom they choose to take under
their protection. Thank you. That is not quite
my style, Lady Elizabeth ; I should not have
thought it yours.'

I do not wish you to take her back to Thrift
if she has left you for anyone else,' answered
Lady Elizabeth ; ' but 1 should like you to forgive
her all the same, whatever she has done, and
not to harbour such dark and deadly thoughts
as you do.'

For all answer he took out his revolver again,
and looked at it, touching it caressingly.

This " ultima ratio rerum," ' he said, half
below his breath ; ' and of outraged husbands,
too!'

1 am sorry said Lady Elizabeth rising. ' I
feel as if I had lost a friend by something worse
than death

You have lost one by her own dishonour
was his hasty reply.

1 And the other by his inhuman passion,' she
answered.

So be it he said, also rising in hot anger.
1 If I have to keep Lady Elizabeth Inchbold's
friendship only by making a cur of myself, I must
forfeit it. I am used to suffering, and prefer this
with self-respect to ease and cowardice.'

He met her lofty rebuke as loftily. From his
own standpoint he was right and she was wrong.
For a woman, perhaps she might have something
to say for herself; but for him, a man, she was
decidedly wrong.

Lady Elizabeth was a saint, but she was also
a woman. She held fast by her sense of good
and she was faithful in her abhorrence of evil ;
but the person counted for something, and she
was not one to quarrel with a friend so dear as
Anthony Harford. Besides, if a coolness sprang
up between them, who would Estelle then have
as her advocate when the time came, as it must
and would, sooner or later, for Anthony to know
the truth % It was her duty to keep on good
terms with him for the sake of that poor ill-fated
girl.

VOL. III. G

Do not let us quarrel,' she said, offering her
hand, her grave eyes suspiciously bright. ' We
have been friends from the first — let us keep so
to the end.'

For a moment the proud man in Anthony,
dressed in the brief authority of the offended,
supplicated, looked coldly at this dear Delight.
It was such a sweet moment — this of her offered
hand and prayer for forgiveness — he could not
deny himself its enjoyment.

It was only for a moment — the very briefest ;
then the better self prevailed, and he took the
fair woman's hand in both of his and carried it
to his lips.

Yes, we must be always friends,' he said in a
moved voice. ' My life would indeed be dreary
without your friendship. Love and happiness
left me with her — my good angel would go with
you !'

Let me be your good angel,' said Lady Elizabeth
fervently. * Let me have some real influence
over you.'

Where you may,' he answered gravely.

But there are parts of a man's nature — tracts of
thought and feeling — where no one ought to
have influence ; least of all a woman.'

4 1 shall know when I come upon them,' washer
enigmatical reply ; and then they talked
of something else, or rather they did not fora
few minutes talk of anything at all. Peace
was re-established between them — that was the
main fact of the moment — and as each felt the
conqueror there was no sense of humiliation on
either side.

She will never touch that subject again,'
thought Anthony, as he walked by his dear
Delight's side and breathed a little deeper
because he had reduced her to his will.

This time I have taken two steps forward
and fallen back one. The next time I shall
make three and fall back none,' thought Lady
Elizabeth, she too breathing much more freely
because of the hope she had that she could win
poor Estelle's forgiveness when the day of her
ordeal should come.

After this first and only brush that had ever

g2

been between the two, Anthony and Lady
Elizabeth were yet oftener together and still
more and more to each other than before. The
old days at King.shouse seemed to have been
translated into these new conditions of Thor-burgh
; but had there been the smallest approach
to flirting or levity on either side, Mrs. Smythe
Smith would have taken the alarm, and there
would probably have been a scene of remonstrance
or a false excuse for departure. But
there was nothing to agitate the most sensitive
prudery. Anthony came very often to Upper-fold,
but he was apparently as content with
themselves as with Lady Elizabeth. If he
rode out with her, it was under the escort of
Mr. Smythe Smith ; and when he talked to her
he was within eyeshot if not always within earshot
of the rest. His friendship, too, was somewhat
of a feather in the Smythe Smith's social
cap ; and it is only grocers and people of that
stamp who object to free intercourse between
men and women where there is no love-making
now and none likely to be in the future. So
that the almost daily companionship went on

without let or hindrance, and Lady Elizabeth
was grateful to her hostess for her trust. Knowing
what she did, and having that ulterior
object ever before her eyes, she held by her
friendship with Anthony as the last hope of
salvation poor Estelle was likely to have.

It was a heavy burden, however, to know
what she did, and keep it back from the one
most interested. If she could but bring him to
a milder frame of mind she would tell him. He
ought to divorce his poor erring wife to set her
free to marry Charlie. If only she would influence
him to this better and more magnanimous
course ! Meanwhile, she made herself almost
necessary to his existence ; and the power was
waxing secretly and unknown to himself, as the
roots of the flowers swelled beneath the sod and
the sap in the trees rose even higher. And as a
further clamp and rivet, Estelle's little year-old
boy had * taken to ' Lady Elizabeth ; and when
he saw her would smile to her and hold out his
pink hands, and make much of her when she
took him in her arms.

'You see we all love you, Lady Elizabeth,'

said Anthony, one day, in his half-bitter, half-serious
way. 'My boy, my dog, and even I y
who, in your eyes, am not so good as either.'

CHAPTER V.

IN DIRE DISTRESS.

Meanwhile, Estelle's cup of misery was full —
so full that surely there was no room for more !
In the earthquake she and Charlie had lost all
they possessed, save the clothes in which they
escaped and such loose silver as chanced to be
in their pockets. The house had fallen in a
heap of stones and dust, smashing and covering
everything within the four walls ; and their
clothes and money had gone with the rest. If
anything was found by the diggers it was kept,
for nothing was restored — and the young people
stood face to face with destitution of a far more
formidable kind than that with which any other
English visitor was threatened. Without resources

in themselves, they had none at home —
710 parents who would reinstate them — no
friends who would club together for their
benefit. Alone, and cut off from their past ;
disgraced where they were ; penniless, denuded,
dying — was there a lower deep? It seemed
scarcely possible, save to Estelle when she
thought of Charlie's death, or haply of her own
before his.

As their only chance, they wrote to Mary,
whom now they knew to have been the anonymous
sender of those sporadic supplies — whose
other secret also they knew. Estelle was thus
doubly bound to this vulgar car of cheatery and
deception; for they knew her guilt and she
knew theirs, and neither dared to betray the
other. But Mary and her mother had the
whip-hand, and knew it.

There is a certain class of persons — narrow
in mind, affectionate in temperament, and penetrated
with vanity — to whom generosity is easy
but obligation impossible. When the question
is of spontaneous assistance to a superior, there
are no bounds to the good they will do, so long

as they can peacock themselves with the thought
that they have ministered to the god and fed the
king's son. But let that god lose his divinity
and show himself shorn of his rays — let that
king's son be cast down from his throne and
thrust into the mud — let divinity and royalty
be brought to the base level of the once
proud protector, then claim continuance
of that former protection — and the scene
changes. It is no longer a matter for vanity,
for self-gratulation, for self-peacocks. It is
not protecting the superior ; it is simply helping
the equal — maybe the inferior. The gifts which
were tribute become now the doles which are
charities, and by this change of character lose
their charm. Duty is not so pleasant as freedom
; and the king's son in rags is not like the
king's son in ermine and purple.

So it was with Mary. While she could feel
that she helped one who had been her young
master, who was well before the world, brilliant,
courted, respected — while, too, she could
salve over her tough conscience by saying to
herself and her mother that her impersonation

of the dead Mrs. Latimer and the embezzlement
of the money which should have been the Clan-richard's,
did more good as it was, she was
liberal enough. When it came to a Charlie
fallen and disgraced — to an Estelle guilty and
a fugitive from the law — when the god had
become the leper — then her heart changed, and
her open hand gradually closed. No more
honour was to be had out of her gifts; and it
was foolishness to run the risk they were running
and not make a good provision for the future.
They were safe now from denunciation either
by Charlie or Estelle — and really they could not
undertake to support a runaway wife and her
paramour.

So that when Estelle wrote to them, giving
an account of the earthquake and their losses
and asking for help, mother and daughter consulted
together in adverse mood enough, and
pronounced it a shame for grand folk like those
to come upon poor people like them.

Do they think we are made of money V asked
Mrs. Latimer shrewishly.

1 If they do they'll have to find out their
mistake,' said Mary grimly.

So much of grace, however, had they as to
remit Charlie Osborne a very small pittance,
just to meet the most pressing wants of the
moment — sending therewith a curt and disagreeable
letter, full of covert insolence, saying
that it was impossible for them to satisfy these
constant and exorbitant demands — and that
really Mrs. Harford must apply to her own
people, who were better able to assist her than
they. Poor folk like them had enough to do
to keep their own loads above water.

Perhaps no trial had been greater to these
two desolate creatures than was this letter, with
its meagre remittance so reluctantly sent — its
insolence so slightly veiled. Nothing but the
absolute need of the moment bent their pride
to the point of humiliation involved in the acceptance
of this churlish dole. Penniless and
denuded as they were, even these few pounds
were better than nothing. But they were so
few ! — they went but a small way in the long

list of necessary restitutions! — and Estelle sat
by Charlie's bedside, holding his burning hand
in hers, and casting about in her own mind fora
sheet-anchor in this stormy sea. It was a
terrible moment. Even that when Anne had
marked them with the brand of shame was less
terrible than this. For this included the same
confession of shame, and more beside.

Then Estelle made up her mind. It was a
trial, but it was not a hazard. She knew the
man, and felt sure that she could trust him. He
was good and unselfish, and he had once loved
her. Now that he was rich he would help her ;
even though helping her meant helping the man
who had stood between them.

Her cheeks burnt as with fire ; her hands were
cold as marble ; her heart throbbed with hope
and fear and the shame of downcast pride all in
one ; but it had to be done. Caleb Stagg washer
last chance, failing a direct appeal to Anthony
— or one yet more direct to death and
God ! But the loving cling to life, however
miserable they may be, if they can but live
together. The dust of dead joys is better than

the peace of eternal sleep, if only they can hold
each other's hands and forget their wretchedness
in a kiss. When things are at their extreme it
is time enough to voluntarily die. While they
love they are never at this extreme; andEstelle,
who knew that her beloved was now dying,
would not have hastened that inevitable hour,
no, not by one moment of coveted time ! Wherefore,
she took her courage in both hands — wrote
the story of her distress and denudation to Caleb
Stagg, and spoke quite naturally of 'Mr. Osborne,'
and of his state of health, and of her
having joined him to look after him. She had,
however, to add the slight change of name, and
how they were known here at their hotel as
4 Mr. and Mrs. Charles ' — which gave a somewhat
different complexion to the pure philanthropy
of looking after her old friend and
playmate, fallen into such a condition of health
as demanded a competent nurse.

The first answer came by telegram. By
return of post a substantial remittance was the
second; and Estelle had not miscalculated.
This sandy-haired, snub-nosed, ungainly omad-

han was truly the bit of human gold she had
believed him to be. The hump between the
hunchback's shoulders was then the sheath
wherein were folded the angel's wings ; and
Love, pure, unselfish Love, once more vindicated
its right to be held as the God of the
world and the great centre of all life that is
worth living.

It was time that some help of this kind should
come to these poor young people. The story
of their unauthorized union had got abroad ;
and, though foreign hotel-keepers are lenient
to this kind of thing where there are substantial
assets at the back of it — when it comes to
poverty and the want of a sacrament together,
the combination is too strong, and outraged
propriety has its word to say in shrill accents
enough. The proprietor of the hotel, where these
poor young creatures had taken shelter, knew
all the story as it came up from the establishment
below. As his hotel was nearly empty, because
of fear of the earthquake, he was not disposed
to ask too many searching questions, nor to look
too narrowly into the marriage-lines of his new

guests. Also he was ready to wait a reasonable
time for remittances from home. It was easy
to understand that monsieur and madame had
lost all their worldly goods as here possessed —
but Dieu de Dieu ! they had funds at home —
funds inexhaustible whatever the drain upon
them — according to the rule of English milords.
Hence, he was complacent, generous, trustful,
unwearied in his professions of indifference to
their temporary impecuniosity ; but now, when
time, and more than time had elapsed for letters of
advice to England and replies enclosing veritable
El-dorado and drafts and cheques to arrive, and
no remittances had come to these doubtful young
people — now he had become a little surly and
more than a little suspicious. A very few days
more of non-payment would have seen the dying
man and the broken-hearted woman shivering
and shelterless in the street. Compassion is a
grand virtue, truly, but self-preservation is the
more needful. Thanks, however, to that
noblest of spiritual Princes disguised as material
Beasts, all was now smooth and square ; and that
cold, white bed of death might be made in peace.

The day was warm and bright, and the place
was at its loveliest. Sea and sky were of the
same deep blue, and both were as tranquil as
twin children sleeping face to face. Scarce a
ripple broke the glassy stillness of the one ; not
the silliest veil of vapour shrouded the brilliant
glory of the other. The wind had no moan,
the sky no tears, the sea no sobs; but the
flowers threw out their scents in aerial streams
of perfume, and the birds sang with that * love
of their own kind that 'ignorance of pain
which makes sorrowful men more sorrowful
still by the very force of contrast. The subdued
murmur of the sea came like that of bees
in the limes ; and the hum of unseen insect life
in the air was the shriller treble of the harmony.
The sound of children's voices, the distant
barking of a dog, the sharp ring of horses' hoofs,
the grinding clatter of wheels, were the isolated
sounds which accentuated the more dreamy
music. But even these did not disturb the
sense of joy, nor break the sense of peace with
which the time was filled. It was a day which
moved the world to love and laughter — wherein

the thrill of life was as strong as the sunshine
and as passionate as the nightingale's song —
as sweet as the scent of roses and orange-flowers
— as divine as the kindly gods who rule
the destinies of the fortunate and happy. It
seemed impossible to be even ill at ease on such
a day. And yet, what grief was in that chamber
looking to the purple sea and across to the
far distant land ! — what dread in the present !
what terror of the future !

The supreme moment had come at last, and
poor, weak, handsome Charlie Osborne was at
the end of all his failures and at the outset of
his great journey. He had lived to his last moment
and he had now only to resign himself to
the inevitable parting from the woman whose
life his love had mined, and whom his death
would leave desolate and destroyed. He half
hoped, indeed, that she would not consent to
live after him — that she would die either by
force of nature or by the act of her own freewill.
He scarcely thought she could live, and
he hidden away from her in the narrow grave.
It seemed almost sacrilegious — almost criminal.

VOL. III. H

For all the wise tenderness and larger outlook
which death brings to the dying, poor Charlie
could not rise quite above that egotism which
had been the ruling passion of his life. He did
not think of her for herself so much as of her in
reference to himself — not of the despair and
misery she would suffer so much as of the cause
the loss of him, her lover and beloved. He
had ever been his own centre ; and even
coming death had not dissolved the sweet flatteries
of his self-esteem.

And yet he was not a bad fellow, taken any way.
He was weak to his own desires, self-indulgent to
his own fancies, and he had that fatal artistic temperament
which cannot live or do good work under
the strain of self-control. He must be cradled like
a child in the arms of love, and fed like fabled
fairies on the most gracious food of heaven. And
what was good for him as an artist was good for
him all through. Morality, as the world counts it,
was nowhere compared to the pictures he could
paint or the poems he could write. His egotism
was so far tempered and excused ; but it had
wrought infinite mischief, take it how one would.

He was lying now quite still, breathing with
extreme difficulty, his eyes for the most part
shut ; but every now and then he opened them
on Estelle sitting motionless and silent by his
bed-side. It was painful to him to speak. He
had neither breath nor strength for articulation.
He was quite conscious, though his mind and
sensations were both a little dulled, so that he
had ceased to regret even his departure with
the poignancy of but a few days ago. Like
that terrible grasp of a wild beast — like the
benumbing fang of the spider — death for the
most part paralyzes, so that suffering is not so
acute ; and love itself fades into unsubstantiality
as sensation becomes weaker and thought more
vaporous. Still, he was conscious of the moment
and all it included : only the sharper edges were
rounded off and the intensity was diluted.

Suddenly the life that was ebbing slowly
away flowed back with transient strength, and
the fire that was dying down blazed up anew
with power and brightness.

'You must write to Lady Elizabeth,' he said
to Estelle. * If you can — reconcile yourself with

h2

your husband and get him to make you an
allowance.'

It was like some one else speaking, and Estelle
quivered with a superstitious kind of dread. It
was so unlike Charlie to think of means and
measures — to plan or to foresee ! What strange
revelations and stranger metamorphoses were
bound up with this dread passage ? Was the
soul transformed before the body ceased to hold
it?

1 1 will, if you wish it, Charlie,' she answered.

Lady Elizabeth will be your friend,' he continued.
* Now that I am going, you want someone
to befriend you.'

I will obey you, darling,' she said softly.

A little smile broke over his wasted features.

'Always the same,' he said. 'The sweetest
and the best on earth !'

She kissed his hand lying in hers, and then
he closed his eyes and spoke no more. His
breathing grew fainter and fainter — more interrupted,
more laboured. There was a curious
look of general collapse about the whole pose of
the body, and the hand in hers was limp and

lifeless. Through the partially unclosed lids
she saw that the eyes were turned, and over
the face and brow broke out the clammy sweats
of death. The open lips were as full of pain
as the lips of the Medusa in her agony ; and
then came that hoarse rattle in the throat which
told of the supreme moment.

Estelle rose to her feet and bent over the
body of her dying lover. She neither rang nor
called for the help or companionship of her
kind. Alone, as she had lived with him, so
would she be when he died ; and no stranger
should desecrate the solitude of their love.

With straining eyes and a heart that throbbed
as if it would burst within her bosom, she stood
there watching, till the last faint breath was
drawn, and the life she had loved better than
her own had sobbed itself away into nothingness
and death. She knew when it came, and bent
over with parted lips laid close to his to receive
that last breath. She gathered it like a caress.
It was like his very soul entering for ever into
her body — his last touch, his last word ! — Then
darkness and a vague sense of falling came over

her. She heard nothing; she knew nothing.
That knock at the door— that hurried tread of a
man's entering feet — that voice— all were lost to
her— while a strong arm caught her as she fell,
and a voice whispered softly :

« Ah, my queenly lass, but thought come to a
bad pass ! God help thee, as I will !'

CHAPTER VI.

HER COMFORTER.

God tempers the wind to the shorn Iamb.' Sometimes
; not always. The tempering to Estelle, for
instance, was of the slightest quality so far as
she herself was concerned — that essential She
which felt and suffered. The watching world,
judging of things by their material weight and
texture only, would have said that the consoling
breeze came direct from the south, and that
she had cause for quite as much thankfulness as
sorrow. Perhaps she had. Could she have felt
as the world, she would have said that she had.
Being, however, dead to all but her own suffering,
she scarce recognized the benefits showered
on her by Caleb Stagg, but took them as we

take the flowers of the gorse on the common
when we are wandering, footsore, faint, and
weary — our way lost — our direction unknown —
the darkness of the night settling down. The
flower which Linnaeus wept for joy and gratitude
to see is to us non-existent, or but the accompaniment
of sharp-pointed thorns. Our
troubles are too great for us to be able to perceive
this minor charm — this smaller grace ; and
the law of psycho-dynamics holds good.

Yet Caleb was of use to Estelle — of as much
use and of a like kind as the nails and joints
which hold the coffin-planks together. He took
all the trouble off her hands and let her indulge
her grief unchecked. This was the best shingle
could do for her ; and she had a vague perception
of its value. Such comfort as she could
have she found in this quiet, unselfish worker,
who stole like a shadow at her back, but who
did with zeal and precision all that was necessary
to be done. He was no more obtrusive than
an intelligent machine; and Estelle, with the
unconscious selfishness of grief, treated him
with little more thought than if he had been a

machine. Do we feel grateful to the nails and
joints of the coffin-planks, without which, however,
our dear dead would be in sorry plight
enough? They hold the coffin together, and
keep the beloved safe from marauding beasts
and birds of prey. But do we love them for
that ? Could she then love the man who arranged
the details for Charlie's funeral, and so
separated her from him for ever ?

The fatal day had come and gone, and Estelle
was now alone in the world, so far as her
own consciousness of companionship went. She
had almost forgotten her child; her husband
had ceased to exist ; her father and mother
were as dead worlds; her whole past life at
Kingshouse was a void. She had but one
thought — one sentiment — her lost Love, and
the bleak blackness of life without him. The
spasm of something that was almost shame,
which Anne's scorn had awakened, had gone
into nothingness. Had she been asked, she
would have planted her pride on her union with
Charlie, and her shame would have gone to
her marriage with Anthony. The one which

the world disdained and the law condemned
was pure ; the other, which men called a sacrament,
was impure. So she thought and felt,
and Caleb was not the man to try to convince
her of wrong reasoning.

But her state alarmed him. This blank and
motionless despair was as a sickness he was unable
to understand or cure. Had she wept or
bewailed herself — had she been irritable in her
grief and peevish in her sorrow — he would have
known his way better ; but to be so still and
silent and patient and lifeless, was something
beyond his ken, and he was frightened in proportion
to his ignorance. She had fallen into
the same state as that which had come on her
after she had married Anthony, save that she
had not that point of horror and personal shrinking
which had then been her active cross, and
which she had put all her energy into concealing
from the man whom she never felt to be
aught but her purchaser and tyrant. To Caleb
she was as indifferent as if he had been a trained
dog walking on its hind legs, — but as gentle as
she was indifferent. She let him order her times

and food, and suggest her dress without remonstrance
or opposition. He took her out for
drives, he sitting on the back seat like an attendant
on royalty, and seldom daring to break the
silence between them. When he did, she answered
him with an effort — sometimes not at all,
and sometimes wide of the mark. Sometimes
she would stop the carriage and ask Caleb to
get her such and such a flower that she saw by
the wayside.

Charlie will like that,' she would say ; and
when the flower was laid on his grave she
seemed to feel a certain pleasure, and over
her poor pale face would steal a faint sad smile,
as if answering back one from him there in the
dark grave beneath her feet.

Once she startled Caleb by saying, with
unconscious parody of a more famous
reduplication,

'I think no woman's lover but mine died
twice. Once before I married him, and once
after.'

4 It has been a sore trial for you,' said Caleb,
not knowing what else to say ; and, by the way,
not knowing what to call her.

This, in its degree, was a trial to him, accustomed
as he was, like all people of his condition,
to bring in the name of the person to whom he
was speaking at every turn. It seemed to him
so bald and uncivil not to give Estelle some
kind of distinctive name. He could scarcely
bring his tongue ' to call her Mrs. Charles, and
he would not wound her by calling her Mrs.
Harford. When he did stumble over a designation
at all, it was the former, for he would
rather wound his own conscience than her
feelings.

4 Yes,' said Estelle, * God has been very hard
to me — very cruel. I wonder why V

i Those whom He loveth He chastened,' said
Caleb in a low voice. ' Because He loves you,
Mrs. Charles.'

• And therefore killed my darling twice. I do
not call that love,' she answered ; and sank again
into silence, from which Caleb did not dare to
try to rouse her.

It was natural that the whole story should
have excited a great interest in the English
colony, both rooted and nomadic, which found

itself on the shores of this enchanting sea. Its
mixture of pathos and criminality gave a
pleasant savour to gossip ; and pity, touched
with condemnation, made a more interesting
state of mind than one sentiment alone could
have produced. To this was now added curiosity.
Who was this man who had come to take
possession of this sad and beautiful Impropriety ?
He was not her husband, evidently not a relation,
and as evidently not a servant. He was too
respectful for the one, too familiar for the other ;
also he was not up to her height socially ; yet
he had the command of money to a fabulous
extent. The young English clergyman and his
wife, who might have solved the mystery, had
left the place ; and conjecture exhausted itself
in vain. No one came to the heart of the secret ;
and the poor omadhaun's true status and lines
of relationship with this sorely-punished but unrepentant
reprobate remained unknown. She,
more beautiful and more desolate than Ariadne
herself, and he the queerest-looking god that
ever leapt from a car, steam-driven or panther-drawn
— what chain could bind them together %

It was not love and it was not blood ; and the
world is not quick to recognize the unselfish
heroism of devotion.

If nothing was known here, all was patent at
Kingshouse, and the bad black news flew about
the place as fast as if carried on bats' wings in
the twilight. It made the staple of conversation,
and was the * shame and the burning ' of
the hour. Not content with having left her
own lawful husband for one man, this exceedingly
improper person, this Mrs. Harford, had
inveigled another. And such another ! The
golden calf, the butt of his county, was her
latest sacrifice ; and he, the fool that he was,
did not sec how she was making use of him and
how she was treating him as a mere footstool or
hearth rug! It was really too shameful, look at
it as one would ! She was past praying for, of
course. She was lost for time and eternity,
saving a miracle of grace to snatch her from
those eternal fires she so richly deserved.
But he — though he was a born idiot all but
qualified for Earlswood — he was too good and
simple-minded to be made the victim of an

artful intrigante who destroyed men's lives as
cruelly as if they had been sacrifices offered upto
Moloch.

Kingshouse waxed fierce in its virtue at this
time. No Jew ever scraped with more zeal his
floors and walls at Passover to make sure that
no forbidden scrap of leaven lurked therein,
than did the whole society of Estelle's old home
repudiate her and her misdeeds. No one dared
to sympathize with her sorrow for fear of seeming
to condone her sin, and the general verdict
was : ' She deserves all she has got ;' and, ' She
brought it on herself, the hussy !'

Mrs. Clanricarde had to bear more taunts and
sneers and cold shoulders and tossed-up heads
than her pride well knew how to endure ; and
that foolish George was crestfallen to a degree
he had never been, even when he had most
severely burned his fingers in the fire of the
House. Somehow his clever wife made it out
to be all his fault. From foundation to spire
he had been the architect of this Satanic temple
and now see what a disgraceful thing he had
made of it ! Estelle was his child more than

hers, and he had always interfered in the careful
training and education she would have given
her. Had she been allowed to influence her, to
direct her mind and form her morals when she
was young, this would never have happened.
But he would not allow it— aucl now, look at
the result ! She, the mother, washed her hands
of the whole affair. She had no daughter, and
Estellc was dead. That wretched creature,
who had first lived with Charlie Osborne and
was now being kept by Caleb Stagg, was not
her child ; and she forbade her husband to recognize
her as his.

And when that foolish George wept and said
that nature was stronger even than morality, his
wife metaphorically bit off his head, and told
him he was an atheist and she would hear no
more of his blasphemy. She even went so far
as to say : ' That miserable girl or me, George.
If you go to her you leave me for ever. Besides,
where, if you please, is the money to go with?
You have taken care that we shall never have
a five-pound note to spare. How are you to
go ? Let that hideous young man bear the

burden. He has plenty of money. And when
Mr. Harford divorces her he will marry her ; and
so she will not have to starve; which is as
much as she can expect, and more than she
deserves.'

To such a pass of hardness — like to the nether
millstone — had large social ambition, personal
pride, and perpetual poverty brought the
mother's heart, which under more favourable
conditions would have been soft and loving
enough.

Of Mrs. Aspline, too, it must be sorrowfully
said that, in this matter of Estelle's disgrace,
she disclosed the one black spot in her otherwise
rose-red heart. The Clanricardes had
always treated her and Anne ' de haut en bas ';
and perhaps it was but human nature that she
should now exult a little more than was quite
seemly in this sudden turn of the scale, which
made hers heavy with the wealth of respectability
and theirs light with the winged seeds
of vice and disgrace. She was for the most
part a kind old thing — a generous-nature d old
Cooke ; but this was the pull that wrenched

VOL. III. I

her good nature asunder, and let the little
stream of gall trickle forth. The contrast to
be made between snow-white Anne, under the
hallowing influence of the matrimonial sacrament,
and this besmirched "Estella, neither wife
nor widow, was too strong to be resisted. She
could not help herself. She must show Mrs.
Clanricarde her disdain. And she did. And
Mrs. Clanricarde knew that she did ; and suffered
under it ; as we all do when fate has turned our
old conditions topsy-turvy, and those who were
on the bench below us are now on the dais
above.

Things at Mentone continued pretty much as
they had been ever since poor Charlie's death.
Estelle's intellect seemed benumbed, and showed
no signs of reawakening. Her health was perfect,
save for a certain fever in the blood that
yet was not strong enough to devour her
strength. It was only the brain which had
become torpid, overtasked with sorrow, over-weighted
with despair. The only pleasures she
had were those connected with Charlie, either
by true remembrance or impossible phantasy ;

and the only subjects in which she showed any
active interest were those of which he was the
central point.

One day she and Caleb were sitting by the
grave, where she used to pass some time of
every day. She used to say she was ' going to
Charlie,' when she made her friend understand
she wanted to go to the cemetery ; and imagination
supplied something almost like reality.
Charlie was always alive to her. He was out
of sight but not out of hearing — in a narrow
bed, lined with white and full of flowers, beneath
the grass, but knowing what was going
on above, and glad when she came to see him
and to sit there at his feet.

Suddenly she looked up into Caleb's face.
She seldom looked at him full like this — her
faithful, dog-like friend and protector, whom
she accepted as of the nature of things, like the
morning's roll of bread or the daylight that
comes between the dark and dark.

'I suppose the world thinks I did wrong?
Anne Aspline said so she said, asking a question
by the inflection of her voice.

i2

< I suppose so,' said honest Caleb uncomfortably.


How he wished that he could have repudiated
the idea and have shouted 'No !' to all the
four quarters of heaven. But even though it
was Estelle who had done it, for a married
woman to leave her husband and live with
another man was a long way beyond the limits
of the morally permissible !

And did you? — do you she asked again.

He writhed in spirit. Abstractedly, yes. The
act had been profoundly immoral ; but his was
not the hand to hurt that already so cruelly
wounded dove ; and what mattered it what he
thought ! Who was he to lay down a law or
presume to find fault with such as she 1

*I would never blame aught you did, Mrs.
Charles. You know what you do, I reckon,' he
answered humbly.

But you think I did wrong all the same,' she
persisted, with the obstinacy of a sick mind.

1 It would have been an ill thing in anyone
else,' he returned.

I do not see the difference,' she said. ' I am

no better than another. He was ; but I am
not.'

< Why do you talk of it V said Caleb. < Please
don't, Mrs. Charles. You did what you'd a
mind to do, and so let it bide

I did what I ought to have done,' said
Estelle, with curious emphasis. ' They all deceived
me — all made me commit that first sin.
This was no sin ; the other was. This was only
putting things straight again.'

1 That should comfort you to think of,' said
Caleb, his eyes cast down.

But now I have one wish — only one,' she
continued. ' I want Mr. Harford to divorce me.
Then I will be married to Charlie by the Church
before I die.'

Good Lord !' cried Caleb aghast. ' Mrs.
Harford — Mrs. Charles — oh, my dear lady, whatever
is it you are saying ! Do think a bit. How
can you be married to him, and him a-lying
here V

Oh, yes, they will. I am sure I can washer
reply. • He is not dead, you know. Only
his body is dead, but his soul is alive, and I can

be married to that — my soul to his before 1 die ;
and then we shall be all right when we meet in
heaven

Lord's sakes !' said Caleb. ' Did ever anyone
hear the like !'

4 If you had as much faith as you ought to
have you would understand me,' answered
Estelle ; ' and,' again looking him full in the
face, ' you would sympathize with me and
uphold me.'

1 will uphold you, Mrs. Charles, in all and
aught you wish to do,' said Caleb with passionate
solemnity. ' But this is such an idea ! I
don't well see how it can be. 1 doubt if ever
a clergyman would be got to do it.'

We shall see,' said Estelle. * And I intend
to write to Mr. Harford and ask him. He will
not refuse. He knows that I am not his wife
now, and never was. I was only his married
slave. My mother sold me and he bought me ;
and I owe him no more than any other slave
owes her master. And not so much indeed !'

If you get him to divorce you it will be

another big talk,' said Caleb. ' Folks have
talked enough at present. I'd be main sorry to
give them more to set their teeth on !'

Would you like me to go back to Mr. Harford
V she asked haughtily.

Nay, that would I not,' he answered, his
heart in his good, honest, homely face. ' What
I would like best of all is that you should have
some lady friend, like Lady Elizabeth, to come
and bear you company, Mrs. Charles ; and that
you'd let me just go on as I am, looking after
you and seeing that you want for nought. But
1 want no more clatter and no more worry to
you. And if 1 were you I'd leave Mr. Harford
alone until we see how things turn of themselves.'


■ It is not fair,' she answered. ' I owe it to
my darling's memory to get rid of this hated
name, which I suppose is legally mine. Do you
know, Mr. Stagg, I had almost forgotten it?
For all these months that I have been with
Charlie I never remembered that I was not
legally his wife till that dreadful girl reminded

me. And then I forgot it again when he went
from me. It is only quite lately that I have
thought of it, and that I want so much to get
rid of Mr. Harford, and to be his — my darling's
wholly and entirely

It is a sweet thought and like yourself, Mrs.
Charles,' said poor Caleb, in terrible perplexity
how to meet this thought which was so insane,
though so loving and womanly. ' But I think
it wants considering. And if you'll be guided
by me you'll wait until you are a little stronger
before you put yourself about again. Will you
let me write to Lady Elizabeth ? That would
be the wisest thing to do. If she could come
here for a bit, that would be about the best job
we could get through.'

Yes,' said Estelle. ' Write to her. She was
always good to me and he liked her. He would
be pleased for me to have her here. Yes, do
write. Let us go home,' she added feverishly.
Let us go home at once and do you write at
once.'

I'll go for the trap,' said Caleb, bending to
her mood as the shadow follows the substance.

We shall be in time for the post, I daresay,
and she'll have the letter the day after tomorrow.'


Dear, dear Lady Elizabeth !' cried Estelle,
to whom this new thought had given a new
impulse. ' Oh, if she were but here ! She
would help me ! she would comfort me !'

Tears came into Caleb's eyes, but he did not
speak. His heart in its own unselfishness
understood this waywardness, this ingratitude
of the sick brain and sore soul. Still, it just for
the moment stung him to hear this woman, for
whom he would have died as patiently as he
now served her, long for the advent of another
friend who, she said, would be the Paraclete,
the Comforter, he had tried to be and was not !

Estelle did not see his face. If she had, she
would not have read it aright. She was possessed
by this fresh idea of Lady Elizabeth's
coming to her; and for the moment Caleb
Stagg was no more existing than this morning's
bread or yesterday's daylight.

But she isn't herself. My queenly lass, she
isn't herself !' said Caleb in a low whisper as he

shambled to the gate of the cemetery for the
carriage left standing there. ' And I should be
wrong to take notice of a chance word like this,
which means nought but itself. And it's but
natural after all that she should want one of her
own sex and kind. For what am I but a hod-macleod,
good only to fetch and carry Y

And with his round red eyes still full of tears
he motioned the ' cocher ' to drive up to the
gate, and then went back for Estelle.

Tell her to come — to come now at once,' said
Estelle.

It was the burden of her speech all the way
home.

I shall be so glad to see her ! She will
manage it for me. I always thought Mr.
Harford liked her in a way better than me.
She would have made him a far better wife
than I did. Perhaps she will marry him when
he has made himself free as well as me.
Only let her come ! Oh, I wish she was here
now!'

A little patience, a few nights' sleep, Mrs.
Charles, and she'll be over the doorstep,' said

Caleb encouragingly. ' Don't put yourself
about. She'll come by the first train she can
get.'

« And Charlie will be glad,' said Estelle.

As she said this she shivered and put her
hands before her eyes. The little child she had
left to its fate and had almost forgotten, suddenly
seemed to rise in the air before her, as it
had risen more than once before. * But she
will take it,' she said ; ' and it never knew me,
and never will regret me.' Then with a cry
that was like something struck and wounded,
she flung up her arms, and said : ' All ! all ! I
have lost all ! Home, name, my child, my beloved,
and the world says my virtue. But I
had him, and he loved me. What do I care for
the rest — even for the child — in comparison to
him !'

But she broke into tears, and sobbed with a
passion Caleb had never seen in her before.

With an impulse he did not care to command,
he leaned forward and took her hands.

Mrs. Charles, I cannot have this,' he said, a
little more firmly than he was wont to speak to

her, but with infinite tenderness and respect
too. ' It's just foolishness, this looking back.
You'll do yourself a mischief by carrying on
like this. What's done is done, and there is no
good in grieving over spilt milk. Your true
friends stick by you, whatever the world says ;
and you have never yet been slighted by them
as knew. Let the rest pass. What are they to
you

How good you are !' said Estelle after a
pause. ' What should I do without you, Mr.
Stagg?'

But poorly, I doubt,' said Caleb simply, feeling
amply rewarded for all his heartbreaks, all
his sacrifices, by this one brief acknowledgment
of his services.

By that evening's post the letter to Lady
Elizabeth was written, and Caleb took it to the
office himself to make sure of its safety. He
himself was perplexed as to what the upshot of
all this miserable coil would be. How would
Mr. Harford behave when he, came to know, as
know he must, the whole story of his wife's
infidelity? For some things Caleb was glad

that poor Charlie was dead. He had a kind of
insight into the character of the man Estelle
had to deal with ; and perhaps it was as well
that he had not one of his own sort to tackle
and punish. He could scarce hurt this poor,
broken-hearted lady. If he offered to lay
a finger on her, Caleb felt that he had blood
enough and muscle enough to strangle him
rather than that he should do her harm by word
or deed.

So he pondered, twisting his tongue in his-mouth
as he was wont to do when pre-occupied
— when writing a letter, or settling his
winged creatures in their cases, or doing anything
else that took thought. And now his
thoughts were hurrying across his brain, as
numerous as so many gnats in the sunbeam ; but
the one most prominent of them all was : ' If he
offer to lay a finger on her I'll have his life,
though I come to a rope's end for it !'

Truly was Estelle a fated woman — fated to
work evil to men by her love and theirs — as
Helen of Troy, or that Serpent of old Nile
whose kisses lighted flame and fire, and slew

like sharp-edged swords — fated to work evil to
herself, and to build her own funeral pyre out
of the hearts she had broken.

CHAPTER VII.

THE BLOWING UP OF THE STORM.

A LUNCHEON-PARTY was on hand at Thrift.
Really made up in Lady Elizabeth's honour,
though apparently for the S my the Smiths, it
was one of the few entertainments which Anthony
Harford had given since Estelle had
ceased to exist for him — how many months ago
now ! — months that had lengthened into ages
if sensation may be the measure of time.

Those of the neighbourhood who were invited
were glad of this break in the monotony
of their country-life, and especially glad to goto
Anthony Harford's. The curious chatter
which goes on about those whose lives have in
any way touched on tragedy or melodrama,

still eddied round the Master of Thrift ; and
everyone was anxious to see how he would
bear himself as the bereaved host, with that
vacant chair at the head of the table. And
more than one mother, with a bevy of nice good
girls still tacked to her maternal skirts, sighed
with profound pity as she spoke of poor dear
Mr. Harford's desolate, and worse than desolate
state. If he did but know the truth it would
be so much better for him ! If Mrs. Harford
had been killed, or had committed suicide in a
fit of mania — she was always a little odd and
abstracted, was she not 1 — why then, you see,
he would be free to marry again. And really,
that poor little boy of his would be so much
better off with a lady for his step-mother instead
of a mere uneducated hireling of a nurse.
And if she had gone off with anyone else — but
who could it be ? No one here, for certain ;
perhaps some one else she had met abroad —
then he could get a divorce, and thus also he
would be free. In any case it would be so much
better if he knew ; and he was greatly to be
pitied for his miserable state of uncertainty —

neither married nor single — not free, yet not
bound.

So they talked, full of that sympathy which
has one hand on self-interest if the other is on
pity ; and each maternal possessor of affianced
palm-branches wished that the Master of Thrift
would like one of her girls in a modest, honourable,
decorous way — that tentative and pre-fatal
way which means potentialities and the
hereafter rather than actualities now. But as
yet the lonely owner of the finest place in the
district had distinguished one no more than the
other ; and all the pretty Maids and Mabel
and Alas and Gladys had no more charm in his
eyes than a cage full of canaries, restless and
unmated.

As the Smythe Smiths were driving towards
Thrift, they met the rural postman on his tricycle,
coming down from the north side of his
district to the south. Thrift was thus served
before Upperfold. As letters are always like
the unknown treasures of Pandora's box in
the country, the Smythe Smiths stopped the
carriage and took their bag from the postman

VOL. III. K

Mr. S my the Smith distributing the contents.
To his wife were many of the most profound unimportance,
though among them was one which
interested her greatly — one from her son,
announcing his engagement with Lady Venetia
Lapland. To Lady Elizabeth came two only
one from her mother; the other, in an unknown
hand, redirected from abroad. Love
conquering curiosity, she opened her mother's
first and read there the further news of Estelle's
sad life, the death of Charlie, and Caleb Stagg's
departure. The other was from Caleb himself,
telling her of Estelle's perilous condition,
and asking her to come out to the Riviera at
once.

Here then was a fresh turn of the rope and a
new coil for all concerned. It was well for Lady
Elizabeth that the Smythe Smiths were so much
preoccupied with their own affairs they had no
time to study her face. It would have betrayed
too much if they had. Not that she had any
longer the perplexity of choice which had disturbed
her conscience in the first instance. Now
that Charlie was dead and Estelle in need and

sorrow, Anthony must know the truth. He
could not kill the one, as he would have done
had he come up with him ; surely he would not
harm a hair of the other ! In any case he must
be told, and she, Lady Elizabeth, his friend
throughout, must tell him. It was one of the
most painful moments of her life, but it had to
be gone through. It was a martyrdom, but it
had to be endured.

That silent drive, broken only by the half-whispered
congratulations of the parents, mutually
elate, seemed all too short. The way had
never been so soon traversed. In general, it
was rather long, for all its beauty. To-day the
hedges seemed to melt as they flew past — for
surely the horses went at a hand gallop ! Lady
Elizabeth felt sick with conflicting emotions.
Hei' sorrow for Estelle was pure and genuine ;
that for Anthony was as deep. She had to
make herself believe that no harm would come
of her telling him what she knew ; and yet she
remembered the expression of his face when he
had said that he would kill the woman who had
dishonoured him — if indeed she had wrought

this evil thing ! But all things come to an end
sorrow and wrong and a weary life among the
rest. J\.nd perhaps Anthony's revenge would
die out now that the cause of his jealousy was
beneath the sod — with Estelle perhaps to follow.
Poor sweet innocent Estelle! Yes, innocent in
spite of her crime ! — innocent, for all that the
world had the right to draw its skirts away from
her contact, and that Anne Medlicott, in the
first blush of her sanctioned bridal, had cause to
denounce her as a sinner ! In that lady's gentle
heart were only love and sorrow and sympathy
and pity. Of the Puritan's stern repudiation she
had none ; of the saint's courage of love for the
condemned she had all.

As it chanced, the Upperfold party were the
first to arrive at Thrift. Anthony was not in the
drawing-room where they were taken ; and the
room looked bleak and bare and comfortless to
every one. Lady Elizabeth's heart beat fast,
her lips were parched, her face was pale, and her
whole being was possessed by some unspoken
but painful excitement. The Smythe Smiths, on
the contrary, were radiant with their cause for

exultation. Their son's fit betrothal was the
one thing they had had to desire. All the rest
had come to them ; and now this wish, too, was
fulfilled. Lady Venetia was everything that
was most admirable as a woman and most
advantageous as a daughter-in-law — for people
with money and no forefathers. She was pretty,
accomplished, amiable ; and she was really quite
sufficiently attached, as times go, to her wealthy
parvenu to make the marriage less of a personal
sacrifice than might have been. Love is out of
fashion for the moment, and Juliet, like Hero,
would be rococo and absurd. Lady Venetia
had not a halfpenny of dower, and her lordly
father's elbows were cooling in the air — as so
many lordly elbows are cooling in the present
day. The rich, warm, velvet-lined and gold-crowned
nest of the S my the Smiths was then a
pleasant kind of brooding-place for a pretty girl
without illusions — a girl who knew as well asher
elders that beauty alone, unsupported by
ingots, must give up something in its marriage.
If it insists on equality of original rank it must
be content with scanty rations. If it wants

wealth it must accept blood no bluer than
London fog. For the most part it gives up
ancestry for present possessions, and finds
wealth of more solid advantage than heraldic
bearings. So Lady Venetia argued, and her
mother, like her father, assented ; and young
Lawrence Smythe Smith was in the lover's
seventh heaven of delight ; and his parents were
in those blissful realms apportioned out in lots to
gratified ambition.

They were sitting about the room, Mr. and
Mrs. Smythe Smith full of happy babble under-toned
— Lady Elizabeth silent, but speculating
on what Estelle had cared for most in this stiff
and desolate-looking chamber — when Anthony
came in. Even more visibly than with Lady
Elizabeth he bore the impress of something
amiss on his face. His dark eyes were aflame
with that fierce yet sombre light of a man's
concealed passion. His lips were tightly shut
and his teeth hard pressed together. He looked
as a man might look who had been in hell — as
in essential truth he had been — for that ' shadow
of a soul on fire ' encompassed him round about

and blotted out all the light of day. It was
evidently with the greatest difficulty and only
by the exercise of the strongest self-command
that he performed his duties as host. He
scarcely seemed to recognize the Smythe Smiths
in their essential being. He spoke to them as
living creatures, but they might have been the
Parrots, or the Langton, or the Stringers, or
Mr. Payne, or Mrs. Milford, or anyone else, as
well as themselves. It was so with all the
others who came. He spoke to them, of course,
and greeted them according to the prescribed
formula, but he did not seem to differentiate,
to distinguish one from the other. But he
looked at Lady Elizabeth with wistfulness, as
if he wished to speak to her ; and found in her
face consolation — of a kind.

No private talk was, however, possible to
people who knew their proper bearings ; and
the two whose souls were so heavily laden had
to bear their respective parcels for the present
unshared. By swift degrees all the guests who
had been invited assembled, and the ceremony
of seating, with the function of eating, was gone

through in due order. But the party which
had been designed for pleasure proved a torture
to two and a boredom more or less pronounced
to all save the Smythe Smiths. They were the
only happy souls in the whole assembly. Carrying
their own sunshine with them the atmosphere
of others did not affect them ; and they
had full employment, whispering to their respective
neighbours on each side the happy
news they had received to-day, which they put
up as a graceful kind of excuse for any preoccupation
or distraction of which they might be
guilty. They were guilty of neither; but it
was a fine excuse and a good reason why. The
grand great news which placed them on the
social heights was not to be hidden under a
bushel. It was a light which must be made to
shine afar ; and to do them justice they held
it as a flaming cresset which all within their
horizon could not fail to see — nor, if even they
would, were they suffered to ignore.

After the luncheon was over and the guests
had risen, a number of them spread themselves
over the garden and in among the houses.

Thrift had been famous for its orchids for as
long as orchids had been fashionable in England
: and Anthony's father had been a noted
cultivator. The Smythe Smiths, ever anxious
to take stock and measurement of others, so
that haply they might go beyond in their own
line, dispersed with the rest ; and Anthony and
Lady Elizabeth were left together. He had
said to her in a low voice : * I want to speak to
you,' as she passed him at the table, and she
had therefore held herself apart. For she, too,
wanted to speak to him — to tell him what she
knew.

Thus the thing was soon arranged, and
what people might choose to say of this private
meeting did not disturb either of them. When,
therefore, they were all in the hall, and the
majority had drifted out through the open door
into the garden, he laid his broad hand on her
arm and said, for anyone to hear who could or
cared :

'Come with me into my study, Lady Elizabeth.
I have something to show you — and say
to you

Yes,' she answered. ' So have I something
to say and show you.'

'About the same thing?' he asked.

1 1 imagine so,' she answered.

Strong, athletic, brave as he was, Anthony
quivered like an hysterical woman. His forehead
and upper lip were wet with those drops
which bespeak a man's agony. Had it been his
execution, he would have gone to that with
more equanimity than he now approached the
moment when he had to discuss Estelle's condition
with Lady Elizabeth.

My God ! if you did but know what I have
heard !' he said fiercely.

Whatever it is you will bear it with patience
and nobleness,' returned Lady Elizabeth in her
soft steadfast way, claiming magnanimity because
believing in it.

He grasped her arm as if his fingers had been
a vice, and, with the action of a gaoler, opened
the study door and thrust her in. It was the
second time he had failed in gentleness of bearing
with this dear Delight ; but the bonds and
barriers of conventional politeness were broken

and destroyed, and only the urgent misery of
the natural man remained.

If this is true, I have but one course before
me,' he said, as he shut the door with a clang,
and touched the revolver in his pocket.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE STRUGGLE.

'read this,' said Anthony, thrusting a letter
into Lady Elizabeth's hand. * Can it be true ?
My God ! it seems impossible of her — that woman
of all ! So pure and sweet as she was !'

He turned away to the window. The passion
of wrath and grief that held him was almost
more than he could bear. He felt as if he must
die under it ; and he did not wish Lady Elizabeth
to see his agony.

The letter, which bore the Kingshouse postmark,
was anonymous and written in a feigned
hand ; though Lady Elizabeth fancied she could
detect certain well-known scratchy characters
through the disguise. Whoever wrote it was

thoroughly up in the later history of the unfortunate
fugitives, for the letter gave the whole
story clearly and succinctly ' up to date,' as
people say, without a mistake anywhere, save
in colour. It told of the discovery by Mrs.
Medlicott of Estelle and Charlie Osborne on the
Riviera ; of their passing as man and wife under
the name of Mr. and Mrs. Charles ; of the young
bride's virtuous indignation at the cheat which
somehow seemed to lessen the legal sanction of
her own estate, and the brave way in which she
had stripped this false mask from those shameless
faces ; of the man's death ; of Caleb Stagg's
subsequent protection of the abandoned female
left to poverty and shame. This last scene in
the sad drama was laid out on the same lines as
the first ; and the faithful omadhaun's unselfish
care, with Estelle's half-unconscious acceptance,
was treated as an act of cynical profligacy on
his part, and of nameless infamy on hers. This
was the false note which gave its worst aspect
to the whole affair and made the first crooked
step so unpardonable. One lover was unspeakable
abomination for a married woman — but

immediately after the death of that one to pass
into the hands of another — to be cared for, supported,
'protected' by him — what shame of
strange disgrace ever equalled this ! And this
was the life and deed of Estelle, she, as Anthony
had said, of all women the most sweet and
pure !

'Can it be true?' asked Anthony, coming
back to the table by which Lady Elizabeth was
standing, still holding the letter in her hand.

It is true, and false,' she said in a low voice,
but quite distinctly.

She knew that the moment had come when
she must prove herself, painful as it might be.
She would rather have broached the subject in
her own way, and given it her own colour and
form. It would have been easier and more propitious
for Estelle if she had not had to begin
by correcting misconception— acknowledging
the core of truth lying beneath the envelope of
a lie — with that difficult after-process of separating
truth from falsehood, and convincing one
who did not want to be convinced of the exact
proportions of each.

1 Yes V said Anthony, as a spur, when she
paused.

'Estelle did live with Mr. Osborne, as the
letter says,' she continued ; 'but Caleb Stagg is
simply her friends— the stopgap between her and
starvation. He is not her lover

Not her lover ! — only a Platonic friend, full
of zealous philanthropy and Christian charity V
sneered Anthony.

Yes said Lady Elizabeth.

1 You speak confidently, my dear lady,' he
returned with a bitter laugh ; ' more confidently
than I should dare to do. You are a bold
moralist to set the limits of a woman's degradation
when she has once begun. I never
found those limits yet, and I have seen something
of life.'

'I know Estelle, and I love her,' she said,
as gently and as firmly as she had spoken
before.

1 And I neither know nor love her V he replied
with the same sneer.

'If you believe her capable of this infamy,
neither,' she said in answer.

Again ho turned to the window and leaned
his face on his clasped hands resting on the
sash. Between jealous anger and yearning love
his soul was as a battle-field trodden over by
hostile forces, and ploughed and torn by each
in turn. Lady Elizabeth made a step forward
as if to go to him, then stood still, and simply
watched him with her large dilated eyes, from
which it took all her power of self-control to
keep the tears. She was in as great distress ashe,
if with less fierceness of passion; but she
could not withdraw from the struggle. She
was Estelle's only friend and advocate, and if
she deserted her cause who would defend it ?
She felt that it had been laid on her as her
duty to soften Anthony's heart towards this
poor sweet and sorrowful sinner ; and though it
pained her — he did not know how much— to
anger and withstand him, yet she must; — it
was her duty, her assigned task, her only
honourable course.

Then you think a man's love is measured by
his "laches" V he said fiercely after a pause,
coming back to the table and confronting her,

much as if she had been the cause aud origin
of all.

No, indeed not ! indeed not !' she answered ;
1 but by his magnanimity — his ability to understand
all the circumstances and to forgive those
which offend himself — yes ; that I do think is
the measure of a noble man's true love.'

'Adultery — desertion of husband, home and
child — silence for months, leaving the deserted
to all the agonies of suspense and ignorance —
selfishness added to profligacy — and now the
second fatal plunge into a still lower depth of
dishonour — all this to be accepted by a husband
as a venial offence — a slight departure from the
strict lines of duty — to be condoned and forgiven
without much difficulty ? And then Lady
Elizabeth Inchbold would say a man had loved
his wife as he should ; and that self-respect in
repudiation would have been harsh and brutal !'

Anthony spoke with that artificial kind of
distinctness which is a stage beyond the sharpness
of a cry or the incoherence of a shriek.
Every word told, and every word was an intentional
blow. It was like punishing Charlie

VOL. III. L

Osborne, Estelle and Caleb in one to strike out
at their defender.

4 1 do not say this, Mr. Harford. You are
scarcely just to me she answered.

4 Not just to allow that you make guilt interesting,
if less than admirable ? Do you want
me to confess that it is also admirable, and that
our prosaic old notions about fidelity and honour
and all the rest of it are mere lumber?' said
Anthony. * I must be under your tutelage sometime
longer, Lady Elizabeth, before I can pass
in your school !'

If you will discuss this matter with me without
anger against me — or her — we may come to
a better understanding,' answered Lady Elizabeth,
with her well-known patience and self-suppression.
'If you will not— or cannot —
there is no use of my staying here.'

Klein Sorgen machin zartlich, grosse
machin hart und wild,' say the Germans. And
the saying was true now with Anthony. His
whole nature seemed to have become both
soured and warped, and for the moment no
good impulse was possible — no good influence

could touch him. Had an angel from heaven
been standing there in Lady Elizabeth's place,
he would have been no more soothed — no more
amenable to reason than now. Conscious that
he could hurt her, he took pleasure in making
her feel the weight of his hand — the fire of his
wrath. It was * passing it on ;' and so far it
was comforting to think that he could make
another wince where he smarted. Doubtless it
was an unrighteous impulse, but it was sadly
human.

4 1 am quite calm, and willing to discuss any
subject on any basis you may desire,' said Anthony
by way of reply. His calmness, by the
way, was shown in his fiery eyes and the sneer
on his uplifted lip. ' What anger can I have
against you? If your ideas of a man's honour
differ from mine, that is my misfortune. I
object to my wife's passing from me to another
man, and from that man to yet another. It
does not seem to me quite the right thing for a
woman to do. You uphold it in your friend,
and blame me that I resent it. We are not
agreed, that is all. But why anger V

l2

For a moment Lady Elizabeth flushed and
quivered with pride as much as indignation. To
the humblest-minded, the most democratic lady,
come these moments of pride when a man's
touch is rough and a man's word is rude. Then
she remembers the inheritance of her birth, and
stands on her superiority. This indignation of
pride, however, lasted only a short time with
Lady Elizabeth. With an effort she controlled
herself and again thought only of the work in
hand.

You do not put it any the more fairly, Mr.
Harford,' she said more coldly than she had
spoken before ; ' for, in the first place, she has
not passed into other hands. I tell you again
that Mr. Stagg is no more to her than her servant.
He is, indeed, to all intents and purposes
most emphatically her servant !'

Who will have to settle accounts with me,'
said Anthony.

If in any other way than by your rendering
him respect and gratitude, your accounts will
go wrong,' said Lady Elizabeth.

And here again we differ,' said Anthony in

the same manner as before. 'According to
your code I have not only to forgive the first
lover, but to be grateful to the second. Your
sliding scale is peculiar, Lady Elizabeth. It
scarcely suits a man who has learned the
rough side of life in such a school as mine has
been. We are not taught these subtleties.'

6 Yes, you have to forgive the dead and be
grateful to the living repeated Lady Elizabeth,
ignoring the latter half of his speech. 'And
you have to be merciful to the dying,' she
added, tears coming into her eyes.

1 When she is dead I will forgive her,' said
Anthony.

She may be dead now,' said Lady
Elizabeth.

He turned on her fiercely.

f What do you know about her V he asked.

Everything,' she answered.

She had Caleb's letter in her hand, that awkward,
stiffly-worded letter, with the pure soul
shining through like the moon through fog and
vapour.

And for how long, pray, have you been the

confidante of my runaway wife V lie asked with
dangerous quietness.

She has not confided in me at all, but I
have known for some days now that she was
alive ; that he was dead and she perhaps dying
only to-day.'

Anthony strode across the space which had
been between, and took her by the arm, harshly
rather than rudely.

'You are my friend?' he said in a hoarse
voice.

Yes,' she answered ; ' I am.'

1 And you have known for some days that she
was alive — you knowing what a hell my life
has been to me since she left me — how I would
have kissed the hands and feet of my worst
enemy who had told me she was alive — and
you kept it from me — you, Lady Elizabeth
Inchbold?'

Yes, I did,' she answered.

Her perfect calmness and the steady look in
her soft eyes seemed almost to paralyze
Anthony. Ho unclosed his hand from her
bruised arm.

My God ! you women are fiends sent to
torture us !' he said wildly. ' All alike ! The
best and the worst faithless and untrustworthy
alike !'

'Is it faithless and untrustworthy to keep
back a thing like this when the one to whom
it would else have been told is as wild and unreasonable
as jour she asked. 'With that
revolver in your pocket, and all your hot
anger ; with Mr. Osborne dying, and she, poor
girl, in her agony; could I tell you, to add to
her misery the greatest pain of all — your
sudden appearance, your violence, and who
knows what else ! Ask yourself, how could
I? I am her friend as well as yours, and
I would not have her hurt by any deed of
mine !'

'How do you know I would have hurt
her?' he asked fiercely. 'Am I a brute or a
man? Why should I not have been gentle
with her V

Because you are not always reasonable
she answered. ' If I could have trusted you I

would have told you. As things were I dared
not'

1 A wild beast !' he said savagely.

Too much like one at times,' she returned,
her voice and eyes more gentle than her
words.

For the first time during this painful interview
the expression on Anthony's passionate
face changed. Some of the fierceness died
out of it to make way for a more human look
of blank amazement. It was so strange to him
to hav^this soft and sympathetic woman stand
there as his assessor. He had been so used to
her sweetness, to the consciousness of her
affection and her sympathy, like a satin cloak
in which he wrapped himself luxuriously,
that this sudden change to condemnation
struck him as something strange and unnatural
in her rather than as injurious to him. Anyway,
it gave a new turn to his thoughts, and
swept back some of that rolling flood of anger
against others.

You are not the Lady Elizabeth I knew at
Kingshouse,' he said.

'Nor are you the Mr. Harford I thought I
knew she retorted.

No ! This is really interesting,' he sneered.
Where is the change ? In what am I
different V

In nobility of nature she answered. * The
man I thought I knew three or four years
ago at Kingshouse was brave and unselfish,
magnanimous, gentle to weakness, courteous
to women, reasonable, high-minded. The Mr.
Harford I find here at Thrift is unreasonable, unforgiving,
able to see a thing from his own point
of view only, unable to judge beyond the mere
fact, revengeful and cruel. I am right to say
that he has changed — at least, from my ideal.'

8 Oh ! I never posed for an ideal !' said Anthony
contemptuously.

Perhaps not ; but this does not say that you
were not a better man then than you are now.
You have been tried since then, and you have
not stood the test.'

Which brings us round to our starting-point,'
he said. ' You advocate the baseness of condonation
; I the self-respect of a man of honour

who refuses to shake hands with sin or to lower
himself by sympathy to such a depth of degradation
as to that which your friends have sunk
themselves.'

No ; you mean you refuse to forgive a
woman who has sinned much and suffered as
much as she has sinned ; and who has paid the
full penalty of her fault — the woman you say
you love. Greater men than you, Mr. Harford,
have forgiven even worse offences, and the
Master forgave more than all. It is neither
brave nor strong to stand out as you are
doing for the sake of yourself against her —
your honour, as you call it, against her suffering.
I will not call it good, for I do not think
it is.'

i I am sorry I cannot please Lady Elizabeth,'
said Anthony, still contemptuously, but with
less bitterness, less intensity of insolence and
wrath.

It is not whether you please me or not. It
is whether you do right or wrong,' she answered,
very gently.

Frankly, what would you have me do V He
spoke with the air of a man lowering his sword,
but still on guard.

Forgive her !' she answered. ' Forgive her
frankly, truly, heartily. Remember that she
loved Charlie Osborne long before she knew
you. Remember, too, that false announcement
of his death, which you knew on your wedding-day
to be false. If she has left you, think how
you and her mother deceived her. Cannot you
bring all this to bear for her pardon ? Divorce
her, if you will ; but why 1 She is not herself
her mind is evidently unhinged ;' here her soft
voice broke, and her eyes filled with tears.
1 Let her be in peace, Mr. Harford ! Fate has
already avenged you

1 And you knew she did not love me ? And
you did not tell me this, either ! Oh, false !
false ! like all the rest V he said bitterly,
passionately.

How could I V she answered. ' You knew
it in your heart yourself, but you would not acknowledge
it. If all the world had told

you, you would have married her just the
.same.'

God help me, I would, for I loved her !' he
paid, covering his face in his hands.

And because you loved her forgive her,' she
pleaded. ' Tkuik of her sufferings rather than
her sin. By all that you have felt, feel for her.
Tell me that you will forgive her.'

Anthony did not speak. His strong frame
was quivering and one heavy tear broke
through the interlacing of his fingers.

Weeping with less restraint, and all her tears
in her voice, Lady Elizabeth went up to him,
and with a woman's true instinct laid her hands
on his shoulders.

I am going to her tomorrow,' she said, her
broken voice having in it the accent of a caress,
like a pearl on a quivering golden string. ' Let
me carry you her forgiveness ; let me tell her
that you pardon and pity her ! Tell me that
you do, Mr. Harford — Anthony — the man I
once thought so noble, and who was so noble !'

For a moment there was no reply. The
silence in the room was broken only by a few

half-strangled sobs — groans rather than sobs —
while Lady Elizabeth's slender hands rested on
those massive heaving shoulders with a touch
as tender as an angel's. She looked like the
typical angel as she stood there, her fair face
pale with emotion, her eyes full of pleading
love and pity, her body slightly thrown forward,
her whole attitude and bearing as instinct with
dignity as with pathos, as pure as it was tender
she, the friend, pleading for the pardon of the
wife with the man she herself loved. A strange
revulsion of feeling took possession of Anthony.
He suddenly forgot himself, and his thoughts
went only to Estelle's sufferings. He pictured
her ill — in want — dying: that woman he had
loved so madly needing help, and he not thereto
give what he was so grandly able to give !
Perhaps the gentle touch of those white hands
on his shoulders — the soft breath that just swept
over his hair as if from a feather fan — a subtle
perception, not so strong as a thought, that the
world held another woman beside Estelle — perhaps
all this helped to soften him and to quench
the fires of his wrath. Whatever it was, he was

overcome, and his mood changed suddenly. He
uncovered his disordered face, thrust his right
hand into his pocket, took out the revolver, and
laid it on the table.

4 You have conquered,' he said. * I forgive
her. Shall I give this to you?' — again taking
up the revolver, ' or can you trust me V

I will trust you,' she answered, scarce able
to speak. « You will not break your word.'

He took her hands from his shoulders and
held them in one of his ; the other he put round
her waist and pressed her to him. How long it
was since he had held a woman in his arms !
How the touch of that supple slender form
seemed to give him new life, to subdue him to
the strong man's tenderness, conquered in his
strength and brought back to his better self!
At the first he did not speak, nor did she try to
free herself. Both were too moved to remember
what significance that embrace might have
he with her hands held up to his breast, his
arm round her waist, and she with her face
turned away and her eyes fixed on the sky seen
through the window. At last Anthony spoke.

You Delight !' he said softly. * More angel
than woman ! what have you done to me ?
Have you come to redeem me, or to make me
despicable in my own eyes?'

I have come to help her and to prevent a
mistake,' she replied, her voice faltering.

She made a movement to free herself, but he
held her still pressed to him. The voices of the
Smythe Smiths, dominating the others, came in
from the garden. The guests were returning
from the orchids and the vineries.

We must go back to them,' said Lady Elizabeth,
whose embarrassment was becoming painful.
Woman-like, she was the first to remember
appearances and to think of details.

Yes,' said Anthony with sudden coldness,
releasing her and turning away. ' This world
has to be considered. They must not remember
that ' He paused. He was going to

add: 'that I am married and you are not my
wife,' but stopped himself in time. There was
a suggestiveness in it that would perhaps offend
her ; and, harsh and even brutal as he had been
only so short a time ago, he would not now

wound her for the wealth of the world or for
the whole glory of life.

Then good-bye,' said Lady Elizabeth. ' I
shall leave Uplands tomorrow morning, and
shall not see you again.'

We shall meet,' he answered, opening the
door for her to pass out ; but he himself went
back into the room, and, the restraint of her
presence now taken away — he sat down by the
table and sobbed like a woman or a child. And
his guests, who found Lady Elizabeth sitting
alone in the drawing-room, had to leave without
formal adieus to their host, whom they
amused themselves in vilifying for most part
of the way to their respective homes. * Such a
boor !' the women said, or ' Such a bear !' — but
the men said more fiercely : ' What a cad that
fellow is !'

CHAPTER IX.

TOO PURE TO FEAR.

Even the Smythe Smiths followed suit, and fell
foul of their neglectful host with more acrimony
than was usual to them. In general they were
good-natured enough, as folks are who have
anything still to get from the world, and who
prefer to coax rather than to compel. But now
that their son was about to make a marriage
which would ally them with the real aristocracy
albeit with its elbows cooling in the air — they
were disposed to stand a little more firmly on
their rights, and to resent the slackness of any
rope that should be taut.

It was most discourteous — most unusual !'
said Mrs. S my the Smith severely. ' I wonder

VOL. III. M

where he went — what became of him. Where
were yon, dear Lady Elizabeth ? I missed you
when we went to see the orchids.'

I saw him for a short time after then,' said
Lady Elizabeth, angel as she was, fibbing a
little by implication — by the ' suggestion falsi ' as
well as the ' suppressio veri.' ' He went into the
library when I left him, and I heard him lock
the door.'

8 Good heavens ! is the man mad !' said Mrs.
Smythe Smith irritably. * He is really very ill-bred.
I assure you I feel quite insulted, it was
so abominably rude.'

She was seriously annoyed. To be sure, she
had no daughter for whom to find a likely husband
; but she none the less desired the friendship,
intimate and familiar, of Mr. Harford, and
had rather counted on showing off to-day
before the rest the good terms on which they,
the new-comers at Uplands, stood with the old
House of Thrift.

'He was in great trouble,' said Lady
Elizabeth.

Thinking rapidly, she came to the conclusion

that it would be better to tell the Smyth e
Smiths so much of the story as was meet for
them to know. She knew that it would come
out in time ; and as she was now their guest,
and was leaving them so hurriedly tomorrow,
it seemed only fair to them that she should
make them in part her confidantes.

He has had news of his poor wife — so have
I,' she continued.

Good gracious me !' cried Mrs. Smythe
Smith, startled into the vernacular of her youth.
Where is she, my dear 1 What has he heard ?
Why has she kept him so long in doubt whether
she was alive or dead 1 My ! what an extraordinary
thing ! Wherever can she be ? And
what on earth has she done?'

One question at a time, my love,' said Mr.
Smythe Smith coming in with his masculine
reticence. ' Lady Elizabeth cannot take up all
those threads at once.'

She is ill,' said Lady Elizabeth.

'But where?' asked Mrs. Smythe Smith.

'At Mentone,' said Lady Elizabeth, with a
reluctance she tried to conceal and did not.

M 2

'Then she did run away with some one!'
cried the other. ' And it was her old lover,
that young Osborne, of whom I thought better
things !'

Shrewd woman as she was, she could put
her two and two together as accurately as
most.

Lady Elizabeth was silent. Her love and
pity for Estelle went as far as silence, but not
so far as falsehood. Her morality was not of
that robust kind which makes its own laws,
framed on the fluctuating condition of things —
that eclectic morality which is opportunity
rather than fixed. It was more rigid than
this, if less superstitiously exact than with
many.

Is it not so, Lady Elizabeth ! Did she not
go off with Mr. Osborne V repeated the young
artist's former hostess and quasi-maternal
friend.

What I know I must not repeat,' said Lady
Elizabeth very gently. ' My friend's secrets are
not mine.'

Mrs. Smythe Smith flushed with the sensitive

tremor of a woman not quite sure of herself.
She did not know if Lady Elizabeth meant
this for a rebuke or only for a fence ; but Mr.
Smythe Smith, who, as a man, had a tougher
skin, slightly touched her foot with his in
warning not to let that flush translate itself
in words ; and she took the hint as it was
intended.

But I am going tomorrow to Mentone to
see her,' added Lady Elizabeth. ' She was
always one of my dearest friends, and 1 cannot
bear to think of her out there alone, with no one
belonging to her near her.'

Is she alone V asked Mrs. Smythe Smith.

Yes — one friend only is with her.'

•Mr. Osborne V Mrs. Smythe Smith's curiosity
was irrepressible.

No,' said Lady Elizabeth. « He is dead.'

Husband and wife looked at each other. This
admission was a little rent in the thick veil
of mystery in which the whole affair was
shrouded.

'And she is following V asked Mrs. Smythe
Smith.

She is ill,' said Lady Elizabeth, making a
fine distinction not lost on her hearers.

How very sad !' said Mrs. Smythe Smith
with genuine sympathy, not stopping to consider
that fracture of the wedding-ring which
was all too certain, and thinking only of the
suffering human being.

Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth, whose eyes were,.
as so often before to-day, filling up with tears.

And you are going, my dear?' asked Mrs.
Smythe Smith, a faint little accent of surprise,
that might mean almost displeasure, in her
voice.

To-morrow,' was the answer.

How will your people like that f Will your
mother and Lord Kingshouse approve of it V

Surely,' said the earl's daughter emphatically
; ' they know how much I love poor
Estelle. They will think me quite right in
going to see her now, in her time of trouble.'

1 But if she went off with that young man V
asked Mrs. Smythe Smith.

'That does not make her sufferings less painful

nor his death less pitiable,' said Lady
Elizabeth.

'No, not for herself; but for you? Those
who touch pitch, you know ; and Lady Elizabeth
is too pure to be defiled.'

6 If I am good for anything at all, I need not
fear defilement,' she answered quickly. ' And
defilement from Estelle ! Dear friend ! you do
not know her as I do. She is the purest of the
pure — the sweetest and best of all the girls I
have ever known.'

And left her husband to go off with another
man V said Mrs. Smythe Smith, her eyebrows
uplifted.

1 Whatever she may have done she cannot be
corrupted,' said Lady Elizabeth warmly. ' Mistaken,
yes ; but not corrupted.'

It does not do to palter with sin or to give
soft words to wickedness,' said Mrs. Smythe
Smith gravely.

Between her desire not to offend Lady Elizabeth
and that curiously strict propriety belonging
to the socially insecure she was in a cleft

stick ; but on the whole she inclined to propriety
as the more lasting condition and the more
stable foundation.

If sou knew her as well as I do you would
think as I do said Lady Elizabeth. * It would
be impossible for Estelle Clanricarde to be evil
in heart.'

Only in deed V queried Mr. Smythe Smith,
making a neat point.

I do not defend all she has done, but evil in
heart she certainly is not,' answered Lady
Elizabeth. ' I know her so well ! I have known
her ever since we were quite children together,
and she cannot have suddenly changed her
nature.'

■ Still, I do not think I would go to her, in
all the circumstances, if I were you, until you
had your parents' sanction,' said Mr. Smythe
Smith sensibly enough.

'I know they would not object,' she
answered.

Then, my dear young lady, let me advise you
wait till you are confirmed in your assurance,'
said her host, in his heart enjoying the new

attitude he had suddenly assumed of half-censuring
Mentor to the earl's daughter, his
social superior.

His manner, insensibly coloured by his feeling,
dropped a little of its usual deference and took
on itself a certain dash of sarcasm which was
visible enough to his wife, if not to Lady Elizabeth
herself. But a man like Mr. Smythe
Smith does not often get the chance of lecturing
a girl like Lady Elizabeth. What wonder that
he enjoyed it and made the most of it — one of a
nation so snobbish in its respect for rank as weare
!

Perhaps it would be best,' she said sweetly.

Without question,' was the rejoinder. ' Do
nothing rash and then you will have nothing to
repent. Your actions, my dear Lady Elizabeth,
while you are unmarried, belong to your family
to control. Your credit and your name are
theirs, not your own. Wait, and let my lord
decide.'

• I can telegraph to-night, but I am sure of
their consent,' she said.

1 In which case you can start tomorrow, as

you propose, with a clean waybill/ he answered
with a strange little smile — an artificial kind of
assurance, which seemed to say that in his own
person he was more than doubtful of that reply,
and disbelieved in its affirmative.

But Lady Elizabeth was right. My lord's curt
answer was simple and direct. ' Do as you
wish,' it said — dictated partly by real kindness
towards this desolate, misguided young creature,
this Estelle, whom they had known in the
days of her innocence and loved in the heyday
of her beauty — and partly by the innate pride
of the British nobleman, holding himself and
his too high for any kind of danger by contact
with any kind of inferior. Had Estelle been
one of themselves he might have hesitated ;
being George Clanricarde's child, his dear Delight
might throw over her the mantle of her
charity, and her snow-white purity would get
never a stain in consequence.

So that little hitch was overcome, and Lady
Elizabeth made ready to start tomorrow for
the Riviera, where she was to take the comfort

of her presence to that poor faithful servant,
half distraught with his self-imposed charge —
the soothing of her speech to that guilty soul,
beaten down to worse than death by woe, yet
too full of her lifelong love to have the sense of
repentance.

And now, on the journey, Lady Elizabeth
had leisure to think. For the last twenty-four
hours all had been excitement and turmoil, and
a confusion of feelings in which desire to help
Estelle had been the only clear and simple line.
She knew that she loved, and, in spite of his
late defection from the nobler way, that she
also respected Anthony Harford. But she did
not quite know how strong, how passionate was
that love. Girls do not understand themselves
as do women of experience, when the well-known
fires are rekindled, and the familiar
eyes of re-awakened love shine afresh, and that
which has been is again, under other forms and
different names. Still, she felt that she bore
something in her heart she neither wished to
look at too closely nor to let others see at all.

She was conscious of a sense of blessedness in
feeling that she could serve him — influence him
to good — be of living use to him in any way.
She was conscious, too, of a strange sense of
happiness of which she was half afraid, and of
shame for which she blushed, when she remembered
how he had held her in his arms and she
had felt the beating of his heart against her
own. She was not accustomed to be held in
the arms of men, and yet it had somehow seemed
natural to be in his. She said to herself that it
was just the impulse of a brother, conquered
by her prayer and yielding to the victor. She
knew that she was nothing to him — not even
his sister — while Estelle was still his all. Yet
that silent caress had been more precious than
she liked to own or dared to think. Her father's
favourite name for her danced in her brain to
the music of Anthony's voice, not his; and 'You
Delight !' was hammered out with every beat of
the piston, and swung through the air in every
turn of the wheels. She did her best to get
away from these thoughts, through which ran
an unacknowledged thread of disappointment

in that Anthony had not come to the station, as
she expected. But, clinging as they were, they
did not make her central feeling — her duty to
Estelle — the less potent or clear. Still, they
distracted and disturbed her. She tried to
banish them ; to fix her thoughts on Estelle's
sufferings, her despair, her loss, her sorrows ;
but these faded away into a vague kind of
mournful cloud, while, ' You Delight !' rang out
between the iron staves like sweetest music —
that silent, strong embrace repeated itself in
her memory — and the thread of disappointed
hope, in that she had not seen Anthony at the
station as she had hoped, waxed broader and
thicker and deeper.

Then, wearied and overcome by all this emotion,
she burst into tears as she buried her face
in the pillow provided for the night-journey
and with a sudden conviction of unspoken sin
prayed for pardon, grace, and light with the
whole fervour of her throbbing heart. And then
she slept.

When she awoke the sun was shining ; Estelle
was near ; and Anthony was banished from

her thoughts. She had been through the Valley,
and the fire had scorched and blistered her
overnight. To-day she was in the clear light
of heaven, and her pain had passed.

CHAPTER X.

THE SHEEP AND THE GOATS.

Hard words break no bones. Neither do angry
ones mend them when broken. Anthony Harford
proved this when he was lying on the road
with a snapped ' tibia ' — happily the fracture
was simple, not compound — because his fiery
young horse, with the hot temper and highly-strung
nerves, had first shied at a traction
engine, then bolted, and finally smashed the
trap into match-wood, and emptied its contents
by the wayside — leaving groom, luggage and
master in a mass of moving conglomerate, while
he himself rau up a bank and snorted like a
demon over the spill below.

Had it not been for this untoward accident

which Anthony's full-flavoured Americanisms
in no wise helped, Lady Elizabeth would not
have gone to Mentone alone. He had fully
intended to go with her, partly for her own sake
but in greater part for Estelle's. The fire of his
wrath against his faithless wife had died down,
and that conversation with her dear advocate
had left only infinite compassion for the suffering
woman. He had no love for her now — at
least, so he assured himself. Still, it was exquisite
pain to him to think that Estelle should
be in need of aught that he could give her.
That girl, whom he had so passionately loved
that fair-faced, bashful and reluctant maid,
whom he had held in his arms and called his
own, and who he had made himself believe
was his own in heart and mind as well as person
— her reluctance counting for shyness — that
she, who bore his name and was the mother of
his son, should take from another what it was
his duty to supply — what torture ! what degradation
! He longed to be the hand to lift her
above all forms of want ; but in his own clear
mind he wished that she would die. He saw

no good for her, should she live. He would
not take her back; and for his son's sake
he did not care to divorce her. He did not
wish to put her shame on the record for ever,
and so sear the mother of his child with an ineffaceable
brand ; and if she were ill, as Lady
Elizabeth had said, he would not harm her, and
he did not mean now to kill himself because of
her.

But he would forgive her. He wanted to
forgive her before she died — to know that she
sank into the deep river of eternity with his
blessing, his pardon, and the sense and glory of
his past love about her. Then she would be at
peace with herself, and he would have satisfied
his conscience.

Had Charlie Osborne still lived he could not
have come to this state of mind. As things
were, with his rival dead, all the passions roused
by the late bitter tragedy had faded into so
many shadows, and the only concrete fact that
remained was the physical distress and pecuniary
need of this poor simulacrum of her former
self. The essential Estelle had died when she
VOL. III. N

left Thrift and her child for the evil ways of unfaithfulness
and dishonour.

Still, though only this simulacrum of the woman
he had so ardently loved, Anthony would
have gone to her had he been able. But when
a man is lying on a heavily-metalled road, with
one sturdy leg bent and broken under him, he
is not very fit for a twenty-four hours' journey
by land and sea, let the desire be never so strong,
the need never so pressing. Patience, in the
form of splints and plaster of Paris, has to betaken
instead ; and full-flavoured Americanisms
do not help matters one jot.

So this was the reason why Lady Elizabeth
was disappointed when she arrived at the ,
and the construction she put on
Anthony's words were not justified by his deeds.
She understood it all when she reached Mentone,
and a telegram gave her the bare outline
of what had happened. A letter would follow,
said the brief notice ; and with this Lady Elizabeth
had to be content till the letter did arrive
which gave all the details.

And indeed, in the new conditions in which

she found herself, the sharper outlines of the old
were obscured, and the things of the present
obliterated those of the past. She had neither
time nor heart to think of Anthony when she
was with Anthony's distressful wife. His broken
leg was a painful incident, but it was not
dangerous nor would it have ulterior consequences
; while Estelle's clouded brain and
warped senses — her dogged grief and strange
dreams and desires — her ruined repute and the
dread possibilities of the future — were all
chapters of a book which might have more than
one ending — but all endings alike must be
equally sad. Besides, Lady Elizabeth had
struggled against that sudden uprising of her
inner self as she would have struggled with an
armed man seeking to overthrow her. And as
we can, when we will, be victorious in such
contests, she was once more in her own possession
and no longer the reed shaken in the
breath of a passion that was as strange as it
was dangerous.

The arrival of Lady Elizabeth at the first gave
Estelle a spell of renewed mental vigour. She

N2

recovered her intellectual tone as a slackened fire
blazes up when it receives a fresh supply of fuel.
It was almost like the shadow of her beloved
thrown across the darkness of her days, to have
Lady Elizabeth here — she who was so bound up
with the earlier part of this grievous history
and who in a manner reproduced the past and
redeemed the present. And— oh for the ingratitude
of the beloved who do not love ! — it
was a relief beyond words to have some one
about her other than that faithful slave who did
all that was necessary for her material wellbeing,
but who supplied no element of personal
happiness and no spiritual sustenance ! She
could bear with his queer awkward ways and
irritating devotion more patiently now that
Lady Elizabeth was there to share the
burden of his personality; and she felt altogether
freer than she had done — freer, that is, from the
incubus of her dark depression, and more able
to understand herself and her surroundings.
For it was better to have the throes of a
sharper pain, with intervals of relief, than to be
always under the influence of a grief which

crushed her to the ground and shut up her soul
in unchanging darkness. Thus it was that
Estelle rallied for the first days and even weeks
of Lady Elizabeth's arrival, and cheated her
friends into the delusive hope of a possible permanent
recovery.

It was a curious psychological fact that she
seemed to have entirely forgotten her marriage
with Anthony Harford and her motherhood of
his child. Though she left off living on his
grave, her whole talk was of Charlie. She
spoke of him, however, more in relation to her
girlish life — more as the young lover forbidden
by the authorities — than as the dying husband
of these later times. Lady Elizabeth did not
know if this was a purely mental phenomenon
or an act of reticence for the sake of the morality
she had outraged. She never discovered which
it was, for she was too tender to bring the poor
sinner to book and force from her the confession
of a sin she did not regret and the expression of
a repentance she did not feel. She let her talk
as she would, and did her best to keep her mind
active and alert ; and she left the tortures of an

awakened conscience to a time when Estelle
should be stronger in mental health and clearer
in mental vision.

Meanwhile, Anthony Harford's broken bone
was knitting together as vigorously as such a
man's naturally would, with his certain advent
when he should be able to move, supported on
crutches and strengthened by splints.

One day the three were sitting on the seat
outside the garden of the hotel, where they were
staying, basking in the sun and looking at the
gentian-coloured sea before them. Estelle was
in one corner of the seat and Lady Elizabeth
was next her. Screwed up as far away in the
other corner as was possible, and sitting
awkwardly, as beseemed .his modesty, Caleb
watched each breath of those parted lips —
studied each expression of that flower-like face
lovely and flower-like yet, for all its comparative
deadness — looking every now and then at
Lady Elizabeth as a clog looks to its master, a
deaf-mute to his instructor. It was one of
Estelle's favourable days, when her brain was
clearer than usual and the dulness of her senses

was broken up, as it were, by light and the free
air. Her spirits were brighter ; and life altogether
had less oppression for her than was
usual. She was talking to Lady Elizabeth
more in her old way than she had done yet, and
of other tidings than the one monotonously
mournful theme. A faint smile gave the corners
of her sweet lips their well-known dimples ; and
her eyes had a certain dewy softness, unlike the
mournful strain, or hard and feverish brightness,
which were the worse symptoms where so many
were bad. She was almost the Estelle of her
former happy and innocent days — had she ever
ceased to be intrinsically innocent ? — and Lady
Elizabeth, whose mission was to heal, not to
scarify — soothe, not sting — felt her own heart
all the lighter for the temporary sunshine over
her friend.

Suddenly voices, only too well known, struck
od their ears, and the Medlicotts came into view.
They had been as far as Florence, but had turned
back on their steps and had taken Mentone on
their way home. This was against the wish of
the husband, but by the will of the wife ; and

that will — quiet, persistent, unrelaxing,undeviat-
ing — was beginning to make its usual headway.
One of those unaggressive women who are
never in open opposition, Anne knew how to have
her own way without a quarrel and without
defeat. And as she was devoured by curiosity
to learn all about those dreadful people, as she
called Estelle and her faithful slave, she was
determined to gratify it. It was the curiosity
of ignorance, with the desire of outraged propriety
to have its say on the evil litany chanted
between love and sin. She had heard by now
of Lady Elizabeth's last craze, as Mrs. Aspline
termed it ; and she felt she must see with her
own eyes how far that madness of sympathy had
committed the Lily of Kingshouse to complicity
with crime. She felt so much stronger and
bigger in her perfect spotlessness than them all,
even than Lady Elizabeth ! She, Anne Aspline,
the somewhat snubbed daughter of a decidedly
snubbed mother, now holding the ferule over
the heads of those who had formerly rapped
her knuckles ! To be sure, Lady Elizabeth in
her own person had never rapped her knuckles,

nor any other's, but she belonged to those who
had ; and class solidarity is a fact like any
other.

The persistency of Anne's mind in her eager
contemplation of Estelle's fault was a strange
fact in human nature. For all her strong condemnation,
she could not forego the unwholesome
fascination which this naughtiness had for
her. It was the same fascination that a book of
Zola's has for his readers. They condemn it,
and call it shocking and horrible and monstrous
and depraved, but all read to the end. No one
shuts the book and puts it in the fire unfinished
that fascination being even more absorbing
than the condemnation is strong. So with Anne.
This fearful corruption, as it seemed to her, of a
girl whom she had personally known, and who
had been on a higher social platform than herself,
was a page of living Zolaism which she
must read to the last words, that bad taste in
her mouth notwithstanding.

To herself, her desire to still pursue and denounce
this evil-doer made her no more cruel than
was the Jewish executioner when he flung the

first stone at the sinners against morality, and
offered them up as sacrifices to the offended
virtue of the race and the mutilated majesty of
the law. All strife is hard, and its methods are
self-justified. When the struggle is between
vice and virtue — where virtue holds the whip
and vice has to bo driven into the wilderness, so
that the tents of righteous Israel may be cleansed
from the stain of this vileness — no severity is too
great for the accomplishment of that cleansing.
And Anne but followed the law of her kind
when, coming up to the group sitting in the sun
like wholesome creatures, and not slinking out
of sight like the moral lepers two at least of them
were, she felt like a young warrior who has unsheathed
his sword and rushes forward to flesh
it in the foe.

Oh, how can Lady Elizabeth do such a
thing !' she said, loud enough to be heard, as she
forced her husband to halt within earshot of the
trio. ' I wanted so much to speak to her, but
how can I when she is sitting familiarly with
that infamous woman and that awful man !'

i Hush, my dear ! softly, Annette P said Mr.
Medlicott in a lower voice.

He was not so keen in this testifying of virtue
as was his young wife, and he was naturally
more pitiful to Estelle. As a man who had
been to college and been proctorized more than
once when sowing those wild oats of his more
liberally than discreetly, and who had afterwards
knocked about London and made acquaintance
with the music-halls and their habitudes, he knew
the devious paths better than a virtuous young
woman who had never left her mother's side.
And knowledge leads to tolerance on more
matters than one.

'Why should I hush cried Anne shrilly.
Do you think it very pleasant for me to see
Lady Elizabeth — a friend who has dined in
our house and we in hers — lower herself to
such infamous surroundings as a runaway wife
and a common miner like that horrid Mr.
Stages

Lady Elizabeth is not a child, my dear ; she
knows her own affairs best, and what she
wishes to do and how to conduct herself,' was
the reply. ' Come on, Annette,' he added,
moving away, ' I dislike this publicity so much.
It is not ladylike, my dear. It is not Christian V

It is right said Anne, her mouth set close,
and her upper lip pulled down, as was her wont
when recalcitrant and determined. ' This creature
is a shameless sinner, and Lady Elizabeth
ought not to be with her.'

All this was heard with cruel distinctness
by the three on the seat. Such wind as
there was, set that way, and brought the
sounds sharply to the senses. Estelle's face
first paled as her ears took in Anne's words,
and their meaning became clear to her mind.
Then it flamed with fever and excitement, and
her large eyes glistened and shone with dangerous
brilliancy. Caleb stirred in his place
like a hound held in leash, looking now at Anne
with indignation staring in his round, red-hidden
eyes, now at Estelle with half-terrified
compassion, and again at Lady Elizabeth as if
for direction.

That she ever could !' he kept on saying to
himself. ' That she ever could — and this queenly
lass not herself, as one might say !'

1 That fearful girl — she is like a ghoul !' said
Estelle with a shudder. * She helped to kill my

darling. He would have lived longer if she had
not spoken as she did. And now she has come
to kill me.'

'Do not mind her, Estelle,' said Lady Elizabeth
soothingly. ' She never had much intellect,
and what she has is all perverted by false views.
Do not care for what she says.'

No, I do not care what she says to me
said Estelle feverishly, knocking up the dust
with her parasol. ' But she killed my darling
she added ; ' and for that I can never forgive
her.'

'You are a clergyman,' then came Anne's
voice, speaking still more distinctly to her
retreating husband. ; You ought to speak to
them.'

My dear, I am a man and a gentleman, as
well as a priest,' said Mr. Medlicott with fine
rebuke.

'But the priest comes first,' said Anne, 'and
you ought to speak both to Lady Elizabeth and
that infamous creature. She should not be
allowed to remain here. It is too bad of these
hotel-keepers — insulting proper people like this f

" Who maketh His rain to fall on the just and
the unjust," ' said Mr. Medlicott in his parsonic
voice.

We are not God,' said Anne ; ' and Lady
Elizabeth no more than anyone else.'

'I must put a stop to this,' said Lady Elizabeth
; and with the words she rose from her
place and went straight to where the Medlicotts
stood, he temporizing and she testifying, while
Estelle knocked up the dust with the end of
her parasol, and Caleb stood so that she should
not see the group which by now had moved
away out of hearing. But something had come
into Estelle's face that had not been there
before, and she had a certain look of recoil on
herself that might turn to danger.

CHAPTER XL

THE PRECIOUS BALMS.

4 1 heard you say you wanted to speak to me,
Mrs. Medlicott,' said Lady Elizabeth with perfect
composure. s You spoke so that we could
hear all you said, as I presume you intended we
should. And I heard this. What is it you want
to say to me V

Anne was taken aback. Between her new
dignity as a married woman, making her
superior to Lady Elizabeth in her state of unfledged
maidenhood, and her natural veneration
for the grand young lady of her old home —
between this natural veneration and her moral
reprobation of Lady Elizabeth's consorting

with Est ell e, she was for a moment in a chaotic
condition, and did not quite know what to do.
She wished to be at once respectful to the earl's
daughter and severe to the associate of sinners
mindful of the claims of rank while upholding
those of morality; and the combination was
difficult. But as Lady Elizabeth was there
before her, those clear grey eyes looking straight
into her own, and the soft tones of her voice
still vibrating in the air, a reply had to be made,
deftly or awkwardly, as it might happen.

I am so sorry to see you with that dreadful
person, Lady Elizabeth ; so sorry to hear you
say " we," ' then said Anne, taking a header into
the depths.

1 What person 1 Mrs. Harford or Mr. Stagg V
asked the lady.

Both !' said Anne.

'Why!'

Lady Elizabeth asked this as tranquilly as if
Estelle had never broken her marriage-vows,
and Caleb Stagg, the miner's son, were the
Home Secretary at the least.

Why ? Oh, Lady Elizabeth, how can you

ask such a thing !' cried Anne, roused out of
fear by the strength of her anger. ' You — you
that we all look up to at Kingshouse — you to
be sitting there like an equal with a fallen
woman and the common man who supports her.
And then you say " why V when a person like
myself objects.'

'That you are free from her special sin I
know said Elizabeth gently. ' But are you so
free from all sin, Mrs. Medlicott, that you can
afford to be so severe ? There is not only one
kind of evil in this world ; there are many kinds.
Which of us is free from them all V

'By George, no!' muttered Mr. Medlicott,
forgetting his Orders and remembering his
'Varsity days.

Oh, Lady Elizabeth !' cried Anne again, unutterably
shocked, and not having heard her
husband ; * do you class running-away from her
husband and child, and living under a false
name with another man as his wife, a sin no
worse than telling a little falsehood now and
then, or being a little cross, or lazy, or ill-natured,
or anything like that ? It is dreadful !

VOL. III. O

Where shall we all come to if we make no
more distinction than this?'

We should come to more charity than we
have now,' Lady Elizabeth answered.

Laxity, you mean,' put in Anne warmly.

< No, Christian charity,' was the response.
« That poor girl there is scarcely herself. Her
grief has touched the fineness of her intellect,
and she is scarcely responsible for what she
says or does. Cannot you feel some kind of
pity for a life so wasted, so wrecked, so unhappy
V

No,' said Anne. * She deserves it all and
more. We have no right to pity such wicked
people as she and Mr. Osborne, for all that
he is dead. They deserve to die. They ought
to die, or go mad, or something, and not live to
set a bad example to others and to be pitied and
made much of, as if they had done nothing to
be ashamed of.'

Is this the Christianity you teach, Mr. Medli-
cost V asked Lady Elizabeth, turning to Anne's
uncomfortable husband, standing there in the

trimmer's distress, wishing to restrain his
Annette's rude testifying, yet not wishing to fail
the severe dignity of his cloth.

It is always difficult to reconcile Christian
charity with Christian purity,' he said smoothly.
Who felt that difficulty more acutely than
he?

1 Our Lord pardoned sinners,' was Lady Elizabeth's
commentary.

Because He was Our Lord and had the
right and the power. But we frail, fallible
mortals are different. We must hold the standard
of purity high, and keep the light of the
lamp undimmed. We must not be too pitiful to
the sinners lest we should forget to hate the sin.
To condemn cards, and pardon the sharper,
you know is absurd, Lady Elizabeth. But this
is the danger of too great leniency — too great
compassion for the evil-doer.'

This he said as his confession of faith for
Anne's sake, not deeming it wise in her presence
to be less exacting for purity than his young
wife — having always before him the dread of

o2

weakening those bonds of restraint which men
loosen for their pleasure out of the home and
draw tight for their security within it.

Yet the very life and spirit of the gospels is
charity ; and the Apostles taught the same sweet
truth,' said Lady Elizabeth.

'Not to women who run away from their
husbands with other men, and leave their children
to be brought up anyhow by strangers,'
persisted Anne, coming back to her point as a
cat comes back to the mouse-hole. « If Mrs.
Harford had wanted to leave her husband — and
that would have been wicked enough when once
she had married him — she need not have gone
off with Mr. Osborne. If she did not love the
man she married she could at least have kept
herself correct,' she added with unanswerable
justice.

4 1 do not defend Estelle's action, but we
must remember the whole circumstance before
we can judge it rightly,' Lady Elizabeth answered.
« She had loved Charlie Osborne all
her life. She was induced to marry Mr. Harford
only after she had been deceived by a false

report of his death ; and when she saw her
old lover again she went away with him on
the spur of the moment — not after thought and
deliberation. It was not like loving a stranger
after marriage. It was more like going back
to her own.'

Then,' said Anne hotly, ' you hold that a
girl is justified in going back to her own, as
you call it — that is, in leaving her husband for
her first love if he happens to cross her path.
Is that what you mean to say, Lady Elizabeth ?
I can scarcely believe it of you — you, of all
people in the world !'

I did not quite say that,' was the quiet
reply. ' You have overstated me, Mrs. Medli-
scott. I only excuse poor Estelle somewhat,
not only because of her long and deep-rooted
attachment, but because she had been, as it
were, betrayed into her marriage with a man
she did not love. And it seemed more natural
to her to give her life to Mr. Osborne, the man
she did love.'

'All this is dreadful,' cried Anne aghast.
x And her marriage-vows to go for nothing !

Whatever she felt she should have borne it.
Had she not vowed that she would V

'We are frail creatures under temptation*"
said Lady Elizabeth.

And Ave should be frailer if such principles
as these were accepted !' cried Anne. ' That I
should have lived to hear such awful sentiments
from Lady Elizabeth Inchbold ! It is fearful I
And the earthquake here so lately ! I wonder
you have the courage, Lady Elizabeth. I wonder
you are not afraid .'

She was sincerely stirred. Narrow and hard
she might be, and with the cruelty of former
jealousy added to the cruelty of condemnation,
but she was also faithfully convinced of the one
all-important need for absolute propriety in the
lives of women ; and she cherished the ideal of
chastity as the holiest the world has to offer.
She wore the White Cross on her breast ; and
charity to evil-doers was as a black stain
thrown across its virgin purity. Tears stood in
her china-blue eyes — genuine tears of genuine
distress. That the sweet lady of Kingshouse
should advocate laxity in these matters was a

species of blasphemy which terrified and overcame
her. She had always looked up to Lady
Elizabeth with reverence, if her practical democracy
had at times somewhat revolted her.
But now, when she was not only consorting
with sinners, but speaking gently of that fallen
creature, and even excusing her and making
light of the heinousness of her sin, Anne felt as
if she must choose between man and God —
human respect and divine guidance.

Some day you will come to a better knowledge,'
she said with quivering lips. 1 1 will
pray that you do.'

1 Perhaps, some day, taught by the lesson of
suffering in the world, you will think with me
gently of sinners,' said Lady Elizabeth in
reply.

I hope— never !' said Anne with fervour.

But you can at all events refrain from saying
harsh things that she can hear. You remember
the bruised reed and the smoking flax,' said
Lady Elizabeth. ' She is very, very sad — her
mind is a little unhinged — will you not spare her
this pain, this indignity V

1 If she were in a proper frame of mind, and
truly repentant, I would,' Anne answered.
But she is not, and she ought to be made to
see her sin as it is. She is not really mad, I.
suppose ? She can pray, can she not ! and God
can give His grace even to an idiot, if He will.'

Then let God judge her. We have only to
soothe and help her,' Lady Elizabeth replied, as
she turned away and went back to Estelle.

i What has she been saying to you ? What
have you been talking about all this times
were Estelle's two questions, put rapidly and
feverishly on her friend's return.

'Nothing of consequence,' said Lady Elizabeth.
* We had a great deal to talk about that
meant nothing and ended in nothing

A bitter, black-hearted rigmarole, that's
what she is !' muttered Caleb to himself, chafing
at his own inability to help and avenge
Estelle by telling Mrs. Medlicott what he
thought of her. 'Not fit to hold a candle to
her, isn't she ; and she daring to drag her over
the coals like that. She wants coaling herself,
that does she !'

I know why Anne Aspline hates me so
much,' then said Estelle, after a pause. ■ It is
because mother would not visit them ; and now
that she is properly married, and I was not, she
is glad to insult me. It is very simple.'

Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth, almost scared by
the unwonted lucidity of her poor friend's
words.

But I do not care,' continued Estelle ; ' for I
did only what was right. It was my duty to goto
Charlie when he wanted me, and I went. I did
quite right, quite. Did I not, Liesee, dear? I
was quite right to leave Thrift, which I always
hated — oh ! how I hated that place ! — and come
to the Riviera with my poor darling when he
wanted me — was I not V

We will not discuss that now, dear,' said
Lady Elizabeth, weakly trafficking with her conscience
for love's sake.

But I want to discuss it !' said Estelle with
a child's wilfulness. ' And I want you to tell
me, yes or no. Did I do wrong to go with
Charlie when he wanted me ? I was engaged
to him long before I ever saw Mr. Harford ; and

when I knew that he was alive, and he said I
was to go with him, of course I did. What else
could I do ? — and why should I not ? And 1
did what was right, did I not V

Whether I think you did right or wrong is
nothing to either of us,' said Lady Elizabeth.
My best answer is, " I am here to care for you
and help you to get quite well." '

'But that dreadful girl who hates me so much
has said such dreadful things !' said Estelle.

Forget them, dear. While you have such
friends as Mr. Stagg and myself let the rest
go.'

And my darling who never leaves me !' said
Estelle softly, looking up into the blue vault
above, where she did really and honestly believe
Charlie, as a spirit, was hovering, having postponed
his entrance into his inheritance of heaven
to be near her.

And Mr. Harford, who wishes you only well,'
said Lady Elizabeth tentatively.

'Oh!' was the weary response ; 'do not talk
of him ! He is nothing to me, and I want to
forgot him. I have only one wish — that he will

divorce me, and then I shall be all Charlie's —
all — all his — body, son and name !'

And he of no more value than a bit of
mouse-ear duckweed,' thought Caleb Stagg to
himself. ' And that queenly lass to have given
herself away for a man not fit to tie her very
shoe-string ! Matte me ! the pity of it all !'

After this rude blow, Estelle's mind went
back to its clouded state, and she lost more
than she had found of clearness and self-consciousness.
Charlie had died sooner than need
have been from the same cause ; and Anne had,
indeed, vindicated the claims of stem justice and
righteous retribution. Poor Charlie had been of
those who have courage enough to act on their
opinions, but not strength enough to endure the
punishment that follows. The insurgent has not
necessarily a tough hide, and Charlie had been
one of those wilful sensitives who take their
own way, but wince and wither and die by the
thorns which wound them. And now it had come
to Estelle's turn, and her fibre proved no tougher
than her dead lover's. Not all Lady Elizabeth's
loving care, not all Caleb's humble devotion,

counteracted the shock of Anne's scorn. It was
like the blast of the simoom over the palm-trees,
and her mind sank into darkness and her soul
went back to its dungeon. She passed whole
days by Charlie's grave and obstinately refused
to go anywhere else. If she did not go there,
she would not go out at all, but would lie back
in her chair, neither waking nor dozing, neither
conscious nor unconscious, but in a strange kind
of mental twilight wherein the world was not
wholly blotted out nor yet distinctly beheld.
Too feeble to need restraint, too strange to be
allowed her liberty, she was in a pitiable state,
and Lady Elizabeth's anxiety and sense of responsibility
were heavy. Anthony was still unable
to move ; Mrs. Clanricarde would not come ; and
Lady Elizabeth had to be strong enough for the
place, however painful its circumstances and
onerous its duties. The nurse hired to share
the anxieties of the moment was worse than
useless. Estelle would not have her near her,
and her very presence made the poor girl so
violent that she was perforce put into the background,
while Lady Elizabeth's maid was a

timid young woman who had nerves of her own
and was afraid of her own shadow. Thus the
sweet Lily of Kingshouse had it all in her
hands and on her shoulders ; and sometimes she
wished that she could divide the burden with
another.

Once she had a more than usual strain. The
day was hot and stifling, and she fell asleep by
Estelle, lying on her bed near her and holding
her hand in hers. When she awoke she found
herself alone. Estelle had crept away with that
wonderful cunning of the partially insane, and
had stolen from the house unseen of any. Caleb
happened to be out of the way at the moment,
and the coast was therefore clear. There was
hot running and feverish excitement — messengers
were sent off in various directions — and a
considerable stir was made in the hotel, when
Estelle re-appeared, as from a walk, bright-eyed,
flushed, brisk, alert, far more so because
more feverish than even in her best days, and
no more like an invalid than Lady Elizabeth
herself. When gently scolded by Lady Elizabeth,
and asked where she had been and why

she had given them all this trouble and anxiety,
she laughed in a buoyant way, and said she had
been out for a little walk ; the clay was tine,
and she had a longing to be alone. So the
escapade passed without more notice taken
of it, and Lady Elizabeth did not know what it
was that her charge held hidden in her breast —
something which every now and then she touched
as if to reassure herself it was there, and safe in
her own possession.

CHAPTER XII.

HOW THEY MET AND PARTED.

One of the difficulties of the present position
was Estelle's obstinate refusal to leave Mentone
where Charlie was buried and where his
spirit still lived. There was not a doubt that
she ought to be taken away. The only chance
of mental rehabilitation was in change of scene
and diversion of thought ; but who could insist
when she so passionately, so tempestuously
refused? Lady Elizabeth had neither the nerve
nor the power to carry a shouting and protesting
maniac to the station ; and if she had not,
then certainly had Caleb even less than she.
Left alone and not thwarted, Estelle was quiet
enough, and fairly amenable to control ; but to

be taken forcibly away would have roused into
active mania what was now that dulled and
brooding condition known technically as
melancholia.'

Anthony could not come for yet a little while,
and Mrs. Clanricarde would not, till certain
toilette arrangements were completed. She
could not go to Mentone a perfect fright and
dowdy, as she said ; nor would she let that unlucky
George go without her. So near to Monte
Carlo, and he the born gambler he was, and she
not there to hold the reins % No, certainly not !
Lady Elizabeth confessed that Estelle was in
fair physical health ; which was so far a relief.
If her mind had gone a little astray, it would
come right in time, and there was nothing to
fear. Ever since that first (false) announcement
of Charlie's death she had been warped
and strained ; but she had done no harm to herself
nor any other, and would 'not now. A few
days more or less did not signify, and a perfect
equipment did. So the mother contented herself
with a few letters full of futile excuses to
Lady Elizabeth, and waited until her cloaks

and bonnets and gowns should be sent home fit
to wear.

But Estelle did not want her at all. Her one
cry to Lady Elizabeth was : ' Keep my mother
away, Liesee ! She would send me mad if she
came ! She was too wicked to my darling ! I
will never see her again !' — a cry which made
Lady Elizabeth's path even more and more uncomfortable
to walk on, and its issue more and
more doubtful.

Meanwhile, Anthony's broken bone was healing
apace, and would soon be well enough for
him to take the journey with due care and
precautions. And, after all, he was the proper
person to come and make arrangements. He
was the only one who had legal authority to
act — the only one who could dispose of this
poor wrecked life, or say what should be done
with this more than widow and less than wife.
Friendship may have influence, but friendship
has no power ; and there are times when we are
grateful for the hard hand of the law which
overcomes individuality, apportions responsibility,
and denies personal freedom.

vol. in. r

It was one of Estelle's bad days, when the
working of her brain was even more than usually
impeded. She was lying in bed, having
refused to get up — and was in that state of
semi-unconsciousness so well known to the
watchers by these mournful bedsides. Her
eyes were closed and she was silent and impassive.
She could not be made to eat nor
speak nor move ; but remained there, with
clenched teeth and close-shut eyes, neither
asleep nor awake, neither conscious nor unconscious,
and more like a living log — a breathing
statue — than a fully vitalized human being.
For the first time Lady Elizabeth's influence
had wholly failed. Unmoved by her voice, untouched
by her prayers, her commands, her
endearments, Estelle kept herself almost entirely
motionless and unresponsive ; and only by
a sudden movement of her head, or a quick,
sharp glance, at rare intervals, from her half-opened
eyes, did she show that she heard what
was said or knew that some one was standing
near her.

While she was standing there, her main desire

at this moment being that Estelle should rouse
herself enough to take some soup, Lady
Elizabeth heard the omnibus from the station
clatter through the gates and draw up at the
hotel door. Then she heard a voice she knew
only too well, and a strange halting sound, like
and yet unlike a human step, which came up
the stairs and stopped at the door of their salon.
A moment after Anthony Harford, on crutches,
stumbled into the room into which Estelle's
bed-room opened — to find only Caleb sitting
rather in the shadow, listening for any sound
that might seem to ask his assistance, while
apparently occupied in verifying certain
flowers got that morning in his early walk
before Estelle had stirred or Lady Elizabeth
was visible.

When Anthony came in, he started up in
mingled trepidation and yet relief. Now that
queenly lass would be lost to him and his days
would be as days without sun or sky, but Lady
Elizabeth would be relieved from the anxiety
which was beginning to tell on her rather
heavily. How Estelle would bear this meeting

?2

remained to be seen. He hoped muck but he
feared more. Had he had the ordering of
things, and she could have been content, he
would have liked to can her away to some
distant place where no one should see her more
or to have the care of her here at Mentone
with the full consent of all belonging to her.
He knew, he said to himself, that he could
manage her. If he might, he would, and he
could make her almost happy. But his doing
as he would was only absolute submission to
every wish or fancy of hers — and to manage
her was merely to adore her and obey her.

White, wan and lean, Anthony was but the
shadow of his former self. He looked as if he
had been drained by some vampire of all his
blood — as if the clay of his final reckoning had
come. But his changed appearance was due
more to mental distress than physical discomfort,
and the anguish of the moment was
in the pain of this meeting and the doubt of
himself that it included. But this fellow, this
creature, this usurper, roused the man's pride
and passion, and, so far, did him good.

4 Who are you, and what are you doing
here V he asked haughtily, speaking to Caleb as
to a dog.

1 am Caleb Stagg, from Kingshouse, and I
am here to help Lady Elizabeth look after Mrs.
Harford,' said Caleb with a quiet patience that
was in its own way dignity.

1 Where is she?' returned Anthony, still speaking
in the same rude, rough way. For indeed
it wounded him sore to see this man here
where he should have been and would, now
that the villain who had wrought all this evil
was dead, had it not been for this untoward
accident.

In yonder,' said Caleb, pointing to the door
that stood ajar. ' Lady Elizabeth is there with
her.'

There was but one She for both these men, so
unlike as they were and with such different
claims ; and for all her grandeur and goodness
and charm and self-devotion the sweet Lily of
Kingshouse was but the satellite where this
other was the central star.

Estelle, with her eyes still shut and her lips

drawn close, seemed to hear and know nothing.
Lady Elizabeth, her nerves strung and her
senses all intensified, heard and knew all. It
was as if she were in the room and saw as well
as heard — Anthony's impatience, just touching
on brutality ; Caleb's self-control, that rose into
dignity. She came through the doorway, laying
her finger on her lip, and as she turned Estelle
opened her eyes wide with a strange and — ah I
for the lost beauty of mind which goes with the
health of the brain ! — a vicious smile, and
touched something that was in the thick coils of
her hair. Then she closed her eyes again and
lay as still as before.

Speak softly,' said Lady Elizabeth, making
no more formal greeting. * She is so soon
startled.'

Let me see her,' said Anthony, his brows
drawn low, his lips pressed close. ' I will not
frighten her.'

Lady Elizabeth, moving softly, went into the
room, and Anthony prepared to follow her. But
his crutches fell sharply on the uncarpeted floor,
and he stopped, with an angry exclamation.

Let me help you, Mr. Harford, sir,' said
honest Caleb, coming forward with all his
kindly nature roused to be of service to a fellowman,
but, above all, to be of service to one who
loved her. ' Lean on me for this side, and maybe
one stick will be enough for the other. It
will make less clatter.'

1 Thanks, yes,' said Anthony, with by no
means effusive gratitude for the service rendered.


Manlike, he was totally without gratitude for
small services of temporary usefulness. Large
ones he would pay back with his life if need
be. But to lean on Caleb's shoulder did not
soften his heart to the ungainly interloper who
had taken the place that should have been his ;
and he went into the room where Estelle was
lying, mutely cursing his fate and all humanity
with the passion and injustice of his unregenerate
kind.

As they came up to the bedside and looked
at that poor beautiful wreck — a more sorrowful
victim of love than ever was Ophelia — Caleb
felt the strong man leaning on him quiver like

an aspen leaf in the wind ; but he made no open
demonstration. He neither groaned nor wept,
nor yet spoke. He only trembled with the
suppressed emotion of a passionate man used
to control expression, and lightly laid his hand
on hers.

Then Estelle, opening her eyes wide, fixed
them on the faces of the two men standing by
the side of her bed — Anthony in the full light
and Caleb in the shadow — and as she looked
she shrieked and covered her face in her hands.

Estelle — dear — do you know me V said Anthony
very gently, bending over her ; but she
only shuddered and moaned, shutting out the
sight as something too painful, too terrible to be
borne.

Will you not speak to me, Estelle ? Dearest
! are you afraid of me ? There is nothing
to fear ! Darling — speak to me. Oh, my love !
look at me once more with those dear eyes and
tell me you do not hate me !'

He said all this at intervals, softly — his passion,
his despair of entreaty, rising as the time
went by and she still hid her face and moaned.

1 One word, my Estelle !' continued Anthony,
who, by now, had lost all memory of her sin
and of his own anger and dark resolves — whose
heart had gone back to her again with all its
former integrity of love — and who had determined
that, come what might, he would take
her in his hand before the world, and rehabilitate
her by his love. He was man enough to
face the world and overcome it ! ' One word,'
he pleaded. 'Tell me that you are glad I
have come, and that you will go back with me
to Thrift and your child.' lie forcibly took her
hand from her face — that long, soft, perfumed
hand, and carried it to his lips. ' Oh, my darling!
will you not speak to me one word?' he
said with a sob. ' Not one look to the man
who loves you?'

Then Estelle uncovered her face and looked
at him with sudden gentleness.

4 Poor Anthony, do not cry she said simply.

He kissed her hand again. Judge and criminal
it was the judge who sued and the criminal
who granted.

But I have found you now, and we will be

happy together again,' he said, his very soul in
his voice.

She shuddered visibly, and looked appealingly
at Lady Elizabeth. Her one conscious thought
was to stay here, where Charlie's grave held
Charlie's heart, and was the altar where she
worshipped.

Do you not want to see your boy V then
asked Anthony ; ' your little son ? He has grown
now, Estelle ; he is a big boy, so like you ! We
teach him your name. He has not forgotten you.
Do you not wish to see him again V

No,' said Estelle. fc He was yours, not mine.
He is better without me.'

Tears gathered into Anthony's eyes. Hers
were dry.

'How can a child be better without its
mother V he said tenderly. ' How much better
he will be with you, you mean, my darling !
How we are all longing for you again !'

Again she shuddered.

Ask Anne Aspline,' she said.

It was curious how rational, alive, coherent
she had become. Her face was flushed, her

large eyes were feverishly bright, her whole
being seemed strung and stirred. She was herself
and yet not herself. Her mind was no
longer clouded and oppressed and yet it was
not sane nor healthy. Not the living log —
the organized statue — she was more like an incarnate
flame, self-consuming and self-destroying.
Yet none of the dear people around
her — all loving her as they did, but all inexperienced
in the phases of her malady — feared the
consequences of this sudden reaction. On the
contrary, they rejoiced in her renewed lucidity,
and even Lady Elizabeth did not read the signs
aright.

But why am 1 in bed, Liesee V she asked.
1 1 am quite well. Let me get up. Let me go
out. I am well. Why am 1 kept here V

1 You shall get up, darling,' said her friend.
It is better for you.'

Lady Elizabeth did not remind her that it was
by her own wilful refusal to rise and dress that
she was here to-day, as now for some days past.
She was too glad to see the signs of improvement,
as she read them, to argue about responsibilities.

So Estelle's new wish was gratified,
and she dressed and came into the sitting-room
before Anthony had got rid of the traces of his
journey and had refreshed himself as Englishmen
do.

All that day Estelle was in the same state —
vivid, alert, feverish — insane. But with the
preternatural cunning of insanity she concealed
her state with the skill of a finished actress, and
no one but an expert would have seen her real
condition behind her assumed brightness and
responsiveness. Her eyes, however, would have
betrayed her to those who could read them.
Unsteady, quick, suspicious, watchful, they had
in them all the well-known distrust and slyness
of her state, and belied the more favourable
symptoms of her lucid speech. Hers only in
shape and colour, they had not a trace of their
former expression. They were the eyes of a
maniac with just so much conscious intelligence
as enabled her to feign for better concealment.
She startled Anthony, and more than startled
him, by saying suddenly, abruptly, with nothing
to lead up to it :

When I left Thrift I went to Mary Crosby's,
and hid there for years, I think. She is Mrs.
Latimer's daughter, and gave us money. They
were cheating us at home, and bribed me to
keep the secret.'

Then she laughed, in a mindless, foolish way,
with a note of maliciousness in the discord.

Nothing that she could have said would have
so disturbed her hearers as this apparent cynicism.
How changed she was to be able to make
this shameless confession !

How long were you there'* asked Anthony,
turning away his eyes.

She glanced at him furtively, and a look of
suspicion came over her face.

1 1 do not remember,' she said shortly ; and for
some time after this relapsed into silence and
would not speak.

So the day wore on, and nightfall came.
Anthony had not been able to speak to Lady
Elizabeth apart, and Caleb had wandered away
into the hills, like one whose work was done.
He was no longer wanted; and he felt an
obstacle, an encumbrance, where so lately he had

been the guardian and preserver. But Estelle
evidently missed him, and looked round the
room and to the door more than once, not saying
what she wanted, but showing that she was
uneasy about something. When he returned
towards evening she looked pleased, but did
not speak, and Lady Elizabeth — Anthony notwithstanding
— said kindly, to give him pleasure,
the poor omadhaun ! —

i We have missed you, Mr. Stagg, and so has
our dear invalid.'

I am glad that I am not only a nuisance, Lady
Elizabeth,' said Caleb, blushing to the tips of his
ears. ' I thought I might be in the way, and so
just took myself off that you might be shot of me.'

'We owe you too much to ever find you a
nuisance or in the way,' she replied with great
kindness. ' Why ! what should we have done
without you?'

1 am main glad,' said Caleb ; and even
Anthony understood the unselfish devotion
which lifted the miner's son out of the category
of men of whom to be jealous, and put him into
that of sexless saints.

When the night had fully come and the
activities of the day were over, Estelle got up
and went over to Lady Elizabeth.

I am tired, Liesee,' she said abruptly. ' I am
going to bed.'

Very well, dear, I will go with you,' was the
answer. * We do not leave her,' she said,
turning to Anthony. ' Either I or the maid is
always with her.'

1 I will watch by her to-night,' said Anthony
in his authoritative way.

Estelle clutched at Lady Elizabeth's dress
like a child.

No, Liesee,' she said.

Perhaps ' began Lady Elizabeth.

'I wish it,' said Anthony; and no more was
to be said.

It was his will, and he had the right — was he
not her master by the law? His heart was
heavy as lead, and his hopes had died down almost
as soon as they had sprung up. His Dead-sea
apple had proved its bitterness. The light
of his life was quenched; the woman he had
loved and still loved — the woman whom he

would have taken back in the face of the world
was but a living death, whose heart was in
the grave of another. Nevertheless, he would
watch by her to-night — tenderly as a mother
by the cradle of her first-born — carefully as a
miser guarding his treasure — mournfully as one
who watches the dead. And when tomorrow
came he would decide on his plans. In any
case, these included an immediate return to
England and the advice of experts. He would
not believe that her state was irremediable.
By judicious treatment her mental health and
moral sanity would be restored, and years of
happiness were yet before him. If the neighbours
looked coldly on her, he would leave
Thrift and go where their sad story was not
known. She should never be reminded of her
fault. It had been grave and damnable, but
she had not been to blame. She had been
weak, not wicked ; that scoundrel who, fortunately
for himself, had died before vengeance
had overtaken him, was the only one to blame.
So he sat and thought, watching her pale
impassive face for hours into the night — when,

overpowered by the heat of the silent night,
by the fatigue of travel and the exhaustion
consequent on his own emotions, his head sank
on the bed beside her own and he fell heavily
asleep.

Then Estelle opened her eyes and looked at
him first with a shudder and then with a smile.
She slid her hand in among her coils of hair,
dragging them from their fastenings as she took
therefrom a small phial which she uncorked,
with a curiously tender, almost loving touch.

They shall not separate us, Charlie !' she
said softly to herself, her eyes strained to
the ceiling of the room, while she drank the
contents of that little bottle to the last drop.

She was smiling, and her face had a rapt,
ecstatic look ; for there, visible to her eyes, she
saw the face of the one she loved — beautified,
glorified, freed from all trace of suffering and
disease — looking at her with love, while his
hands were held out as if to receive her. Then —
still smiling — her eyes still fixed — a change came
over her. Her heart ceased to beat ; her blood
ceased to flow ; what visions or what thoughts

VOL. HI. Q

possessed her no man could know, for the thing
we call the life had gone, and she lay on the
bed motionless and dead.

When Anthony awoke he found her stiff and
cold. Her eyes were still opened wide and her
lips were parted with a smile. Her curling hair
fell over the pillow and her arms like a dusky
cloud ; and in her white hand, with the long
and taper fingers still crossed, was hidden a
little bottle drained to the last drop and smelling
of bitter almonds. By this she had secured
the swift passage she desired ; and by this she
had passed from the night of her bondage to
the glad day of her release.

CHAPTER XIII.

UNMASKED.

Mary Crosby, for the most part ready for any
emergency, was at the end of her resources.
Mrs. Latimer had been inconsiderate enough to
have an attack of congestion of the lungs, which
necessitated careful examination by the doctor,
threatened fatal consequences, and made it
absolutely necessary for one who was only a
servant to adopt an above-board and straightforward
kind of behaviour. A nurse was insisted
on by the medical man, and Mary was ordered
to communicate her state to Mrs. Latimer's
natural belongings. When he was told the old
lady's reputed age the doctor gave the chronicler

Q2

the lie direct and docked off twenty years at a
blow.

She was no more past eighty than he was
he said scornfully ; wondering what was at the
back of the fraud ; angry that such a cheat
should have been sought to be played off on
him ; indignant that he should have been taken
for a fool. What did it mean f Why should
this woman of sixty odd, and vigorous for her
age, seek to make herself twenty years older ?
and why should the hands of one, presumably a
lady, show the ineffaceable signs of hard work
and rough usage 1 A mystery was behind these
appearances; and he went to Mr. Trotter for
such insight as he could give. As the clergyman
who had so frequently paid his official visits
and administered godly consolation, he might
have some clue. But Mr. Trotter was a
student whose books had given him lore, not
knowledge, and he was of no use as an adjutant
detective. Nevertheless, he was brought to a
proper state of doubt and suspicion, and Mary
knew that the net was closing round her.

Not to send word to the Clanricardes was to

confess to the packed cards and loaded dice of
her game. To have them here — even that
foolish George — was to be discovered, as sure as
fate. But the doctor insisted, the clergyman
exhorted, the nurse refused the responsibility ;
and like the general stir which sent the pig over
the stile and the old woman to her supper when
the dog began to worry the cat, and the cat
began to eat the rat, the pressure of events was
too strong for the obstructing sentinel, and the
Clanricardes had to be communicated with.
The letter was sent just at the time when Mrs.
Clanricarde, her toilette finally completed, was
preparing to go over to Mentone, but was
hindered by the news of Estelle's sudden death
which she wept over as heart-breaking and
characterized as inconvenient. The waste of
money involved in the purchase of clothes which
could not be worn for a year — when the bacon
would have passed — and in the further outlay for
mourning, pressed heavily on a purse never too
well filled. So that, when she read Mary
Crosby's letter, and found that old Mrs. Latimer
was dangerously ill, the sense of hope and relief

which it brought went far to mitigate her
sorrow by reducing the weight of its inconvenience.


You must go at once, George,' said Mrs.
Clanricarde to her husband, speaking in her
sharp, peremptory way.

And you, my Louise V he asked amiably,
turning his other cheek, as was his wont.

At first she answered No, she would not go.
There was no necessity for it. She disliked the
act of travelling, and there was nothing to be got
by this journey. If Mrs. Latimer died — she died,
and they would come in for the money. But then
she reflected that perhaps the servant might lay
pilfering hands on unconsidered trifles, which
that foolish George would never see, and
which it needed a woman of perspicacity to
discover. So she suddenly resolved on going-too
; and she made her husband understand how
great the effort was and how direful she felt
the necessity to be, all owing to his ingrained
stupidity.

To which he answered rather drily : ' What

a pity your mother blundered, my Louise ! She
spoilt the making of a man in you.'

Yes,' said Louise as drily. ' A better man
than I have found in you.'

1 To my sorrow,' said George.

To something more than sorrow with me,'
was her reply, in her high-pitched, shrill French
voice, with its irritated inflection and its accent
of complaint.

But as quarrelling did not mend matters, they
were forced to come to the truce of concerted
action, and to set off together to Thorbergh —
Mr. Clanricarde to look after the money part of
the business and Mrs. Clanricarde to secure the
plate and linen and ornaments and furniture,
and so make sure that the pickings of the
confidential servant were not in any way
excessive.

When they arrived at the house they were
met by Mary Crosby, who opened the door to
them and ushered them into the front drawing-room.
By an effort of reason against inclination
she had made a fire in the grate, though the day

was warm and fully up to its date. But she
knew that people off a journey are generally
chilly ; and, for all that she would willingly have
done both these intruders to death, she laid herself
out to conciliate them by every attention
she could devise. Duels are none the less deadly
when conducted with courtesy ; and this was
Mary Crosby's thought if put into different words.
Hence she paid these two enemies — greater
enemies than they themselves yet knew — the
most flattering court, and at a bound won
that foolish George's heart and established herself
therein as a really good and superior person.
Mrs. Clanricarde was more cautious. She could
read better than could her husband ; and the
hidden nature of this resolute, hard-visaged
woman, with the square jaw, compressed lips,
searching eyes, and general hardness of demeanour,
was scarcely in accord with her soft words
and more than courteous attentions. Being in this
discord, her cares awakened more suspicion
than they gave pleasure.

Questioned about Mrs. Latimer, she had the

melancholy intelligence to give of imminent
danger and extreme debility. When she said
this she put her apron to her eyes and shed
genuine tears, while Mr. and Mrs. Clanricarde
looked at each other, and not even that softhearted
George could find fit words of condolence
on the spur of the moment. They came
after consideration, but only after consideration.
But really even he thought that an old creature,
long past eighty, who had been standing for
the last ten years in the shoes which he wanted
to wear, and which were rightfully his, had had
long enough innings, and that the time had
come when she ought to retire. He murmured,
however, something that sounded like pity and
condolence ; but Mary caught the pretence in
his voice, and noted the silence of Mrs. Clanri-
carde, and wondered, in a rapid kind of way,
whether she should escape detection if she were
to put arsenic in their tea and so throw them off
the scent for ever — that scent which was now so
burning !

1 Has Mrs. Latimer left a will V asked Mrs.

Clanriearde, taking up a bit of common china
and looking round the room to note what ornaments
of value might be there.

For the old man had been a bric-a-brac collector,
and especially noted for his bronzes and
old china. At present neither costly bronze nor
valuable china adorned the shelves of this hard,
cold, uncomfortable room. It was filled, but
with the poorest and commonest stuff imaginable
— certainly not the bric-a-brac likely to be
collected by a clever virtuoso.

1 1 don't know, ma'am,' Mary answered.
i She has never talked much to me about her
affairs.'

Where are the bronzes and old china
my cousin collected?' then inquired Mr.
Clanriearde.

I don't know, sir,' was the glib reply.
When we left London Mrs. Latimer had them
all packed up and sent away. I know nothing
more of them.'

Are they warehoused or at the bank?' asked
George.

« That 1 really can't say, sir, ' answered Mary.
But you were her confidential servant,' said
Mrs. Clanricarde sharply.

1 A servant is never really in the confidence
of her mistress,' answered Mary demurely.
4 Ladies like Mrs. Latimer tell us little things,
but not great ones ; and I know qo more of my
lady's affairs than you do. And not so much,'
she added without a blush.

It is very odd,' then said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, more and more uneasy and suspicious,
seeing in this absence of costly art-treasures
the first act of denudation. ' I cannot understand
it.'

4 Perhaps she has left some notice — some instruction,'
said Mary, ; She has a lot of papers,
I know.'

Where V asked Mrs. Clanricarde.
6 In a box upstairs,' said Mary.

So there were — old love-letters and business
papers relating to the early lives of the dead
aud gone Latimer, but of aught that should
be of use or prove a clue in the present condition

of things, not a trace. Not even a cheque-book
nor a banker's book shed light on receipts,
savings, or expenditure ; and when things came
to be looked into — of the last quarter's annuity
not more than five pounds were left for current
expenses. But Mary's housekeeping expenses
were correct to the last farthing ; and each week
tallied with the amount set down with scrupulous
fidelity, as ' Received from Mrs. Latimer £2,' or
'£2 10s,' sometimes '£3,' and for a longtime
so much as £5, or even more was balanced on
the other side by so much paid out for bread,
meat, milk, and vegetables.

Why is this so high V asked Mrs. Clanricarde
when she glanced over the book.

Mrs. Latimer had two young friends,' said
Mary with consummate self-possession. ' They
came and stayed here for a couple of months or
more.'

Who were they V was the next question.

Mary hesitated for a moment ; then she suddenly
decided on her line of action. She had
never been quite sure what she should do if

this question were put to her — whether she
should boldly confess, and so, as it were, bribe
the father and mother to silence, or gloss it
over into an insignificant visit of indifferent
people. She did not know that Estelle was
dead, and Mrs. Clanricarde's mourning might
mean anyone beside a daughter. Acting then
on half knowledge, she made a bold move, and
said quietly :

Mr. Charles Osborne, ma'am, and young Mrs.
Harford.'

4 Infamous wretch ! and you say this to me,
her mother, to my face !' cried Mrs. Clanri-
carde, rising and facing the woman standing
there calm, a little sneering, malicious,
triumphant.

'I could not let them starve,' said Mary
tossing up her head. ' They had no money,
and Mrs. Latimer took them in out of pure
compassion. If their own deserted them, and
left them on the streets, Mrs. Latimer was too
kind to do so too. That was how the money
went, Mrs. Clanricarde ; and more to the back

of the weekly bills, I can tell you ! Those
two nearly ruined my poor mistress, and took,
to my knowledge, every halfpenny she had
saved. And she had saved something that
would have come in handy now with all these
expenses about.'

'Wretches!' said Mrs. Clanricarde, strongly
agitated. ' I shall give you in charge of the
police, Mary. You shall be put in prison as sure
as you are alive.'

'Very well, ma'am,' said Mary. 'And let
the whole story come out in open court ? I am
willing, I am sure. I have done nothing to be
ashamed of, and if you, a mother, choose to
bring the story forward, I'll not back out of it.
But I'd warn you to think twice before you do.
It's an ugly story at the best.'

'Leave the room, you wretch, you sinful and
abominable woman !' cried Mrs. Clanricarde ;
and Mary, saying as her parting shot : ' And
this is the gratitude of the quality !' beat a
speedy retreat, glad to be relieved from the
heckling she had undergone.

As she went out of the room she met
the doctor and the nurse coming down the
stairs.

It is all over,' they said. ' The poor lady
has gone.'

Mary gave a sharp cry.

I should have so liked to see her again !' she
said passionately weeping. f She was always
a good mistress to me ! I should have liked to
see her once more

Too late now,' said the doctor ; and ' She is
in heaven,' added the nurse.

She deserved it, if anyone ever did,' said
Mary sobbing; and the doctor, with a half-smile
in his eyes, went into the room to inform
Mr. and Mrs. Clanricarde, the nearest of kin
and the deceased lady's heirs, of the demise of
their relation who passed for over eighty and
was certainly fifteen years younger, and whose
hands bore the traces of hard work and rough
usage.

Then said Mrs. Clanricarde, enlightened as by
a sudden revelation :

George, we have been robbed! Call the
police. This woman was not Mrs. Latimer, and
Mary Crosby is a thief!'

CHAPTER XIV

AT BAY.

The game was up, but Mary stood her ground.

1 You may do your worst,' she said defiantly,
when she was haled before the authorities
assembled in the drawing-room ; ' and your
worst will not do you much good.'

As yet the police had not been sent for.
That foolish George had persuaded his irate
Louise to wait until Anthony Harford should
come to give his sanction. For the disclosures
to be made touched him more nearly than they
touched even the father and mother ; and the
ridicule that would attach to a man whose wife
had hidden herself away with her lover in one

VOL. It. R

of her husband's own houses, while he was
dragging rivers and searching old mines for her
dead body, was more to be dreaded than the
obloquy that would fall on parents who had
sold their daughter for so much money, cash
down.

'We will see about that,' said Anthony
grimly.

Now that mother has gone, I care nothing
about any of you,' said Mary, slightly snapping
her fingers. ' I kept her warm and comfortable
for her lifetime, and 1 can do my seven
years, or even ten, if need be, now I am by
myself.'

You are a shameless wretch !' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
almost tearful from anger.

4 Shameless yourself !' retorted Mary, flinging
back the words like a bullet. * Me and mother
didn't sell a poor young lady for money to a man
she cared no more for than a sack of potatoes.
We didn't make a fine young gentleman dead
when he wasn't, and bring a heap of misery and
misfortune to everyone all round.'

Silence, woman !' thundered Anthony, his
face as dark as a demon's.

1 No, Mr. Harford, sir,' said Mary ; ' it is no
time now for silence. You and yours have got
to hear the truth. If I have to fight for my life,
I'll fight all I know, as anybody would who'd
got it to do. I am sorry to hurt you ; but you'll
have to be hurt.'

What excuse can you make, you wretched
creature, you thief, for cheating us out of the
money that belonged to us all these years !'
cried Mrs. Clanricarde, still almost beside herself
from the mortified rage of one who has been
balked and dispossessed.

« What excuse ! A sight better than you can
give for your selling of your daughter,' said
Mary. ' We kept Master Charlie for years, did
we ; and we kept Mr. Harford's wife for months
more. It was we as paid for everything — their
food here, Mrs. Harford's very boots and under-linen,
and for all their expenses out there. We
kept them, I say, and did better with the money
than any of you would, I reckon.'

b2

That does not make it less a theft, Mary
said George Clanricarde mildly.

Some one had to speak, and it seemed his
turn.

6 That may be, sir,' said Mary a little less insolently
; * but it makes a difference how you
use the money. We lived poorly, did mother
and me, and all we saved we gave to Master
Charlie to let him marry Miss Est ell e ; or to Mrs.
Harford when she ran away

This was not true, but it served its purpose
as well as if it had been. That good fat sum at
last taken out of the mattress and invested in
Consols, the bond whereof was deposited in the
county bank, under the name of Molly Dance,
could have told a different story had anyone
known of it.

8 How dare you speak of Mrs. Harford !' said
Anthony in a white heat. ' Mrs. Harford dependent
on you !'

1 Truth is truth, sir Mary answered sullenly.
Your good lady had no one else to see her
through her trouble, and we did, did mother and

me. I don't think we deserve bally-raging
from any of you for that same,' she added with
a false air of incipient whimpering. ' She came
to us, poor young lady, in her trouble. What
were we to do ! Turn her out into the streets,
or take care of her ? Mother and me, we talked
it over, but we thought it would be a treacherous
sort of thing to do to turn her back, when
she had trusted us. So we kept her secret, and
no one was the wiser. It's not everyone
would have done so much, though I says it as
shouldn't.'

'No,' returned Mrs. Clanricarde with a virtuous
scoff. 'It is not every honest woman that
would have harboured a runaway wife and her
paramour.'

They did kindly,' said that foolish George,
his restless eyes full of tears.

They did damnably,' said Anthony warmly.

And you would have had us betray Master
Charlie, who was like my own V fired up Mary.
You would have us send for you, and let you
do with that poor young gentleman what you

would, and treat that poor young lady like a
Tory 1 No, Mr. Harford, sir, I know my duty
to God and my neighbours better than that
and I hope I shall always be done by as I have
done to others.'

Your duty to God !' flamed out Anthony.
Your duty to the devil, you mean !'

There was silence. If Mary's eloquence ha cl
not reached the hearts of her hearers, the
father's emotion had at least shamed the mother
to quiescence, and Anthony's large words had
removed from his bosom some of his own perilous
stuff. For all his momentary excitement
against the woman who had harboured his wife
in her sin, he was substantially softened to the
deed. Remembering what he had felt in the
early days, he knew that Mary and her mother
had kept him from committing a crime and had
saved two lives — if but for more prolonged
suffering. He felt, moreover, that all his dirty
linen had best be washed at home. To give
Mary into custody and to have her committed for
trial would be to flood the world with scandalous

details, at once ridiculous and nauseous.
It would be better to compound the felony and
let her go free.

For all that he was a magistrate, and so far
bound to obey the law he administered,
Anthony's American experience had made him
more individual than social ; and he was 'mafioso '
to the extent of liking to settle his affairs with
his own right hand, rather than have them
settled for him by judge and jury, and afterwards
analyzed by the press.

His difficulty at the present moment was not
to let Mary see that he was inclined to her
deliverance for fear of the world's talk and for
the instinct of self-preservation ; but to wrap up
the truth in an opaque envelope of part gratitude
for the care taken of his erring wife, part
consideration for the woman herself, qua woman,
and so recently afflicted. It was impossible for
him to show the truth. How often, indeed, can
any of us'?

Mary was the first to break the silence. As
astute as she was insolent, she saw the situation

clearly enough, and she would let them know
that she saw it.

1 1 am not afraid of my share she said after a
pause ; ' and I don't think the townspeople
would blame me. Master Charlie had been as
my own, as one may say, and I cared for him as
my own. There was no harm in helping him
with money to marry the young lady he
fancied ; and I was not bound to send back
Mrs. Harford to her husband. No one will say
that. Queer as it may seem that a poor servant
like me should be called on to provide, down to
her very slips and shoe-leather, for the rich
Squire Harford's wife, still no one will blame me ;
and I can go to gaol because I helped my
betters, as many a one has gone before me for
no worser crime than that.'

1 You are a brazen hussy,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, who could not get over the pain of
knowing that she had been cheated for all these
years of her rightful income after Mrs. Latimer's
decease, and who, failing restitution, thought
she ought to have revenge. ' You are a

brazen hussy, and you ought to be on the
treadmill.'

Maybe,' said Mary speaking rapidly; 'but
before I go I'll tell the truth, and that I warn
you. They shall hear it all from the beginning.
Master Charlie's death, that was never a death ;
and the back word come on Mrs. Harford's very
wedding-day itself, and no one man enough to
tell her ; and how she came to me when she
found her old jo was alive ; how me and mother
took her in and kept her and Master Charlie for
months and months did we, and Squire Harford
there at Thrift, rolling in golden guineas, as one
might say : — I'll not let a word go for want of
telling. I'm ready if you are.'

'Leave the room, woman,' said Anthony
sternly. ' By George, you tempt me to forget
myself.'

And Mary, knowing that her case was
gained, with a significant glance at Anthony
Harford's crutches, as one should say, ' Who's
afraid?' hurried from the room, and went down
into the kitchen. And when there she partially

opened the front of her dress and felt her
stays which crackled under her hand, lined as
they were with bank-notes and banker's
vouchers.

Them's safe,' she said to herself with a sigh
of satisfaction ; 'and I'll get more out of them
skinflints, or I'm a Dutchman. They've got
to bribe me to hold my tongue. I'm not afraid
of what they can say of me. Mr. Harford, who's
as proud as Lucifer, would he like to have it
known that his runaway wife was hiding hereunder
his very nose in his own house, beholden
to such as we I That old she-cat may screech as
much as she likes, she can do nothing. I've no
call to be afraid of her.'

And she spoke truth. Circumstances compelled
them to adopt, so far, a conciliatory
course, and let this arch offender go. She was
free to depart when she would — she and her
boxes. Her boxes, by the way, were rigidly
overhauled, but not * so much as a candle-end,'
as she said, was found in them ; and, for want
of documents, no trace of moneys received by

the sale of bronzes, china, and the like, and
safely invested in secure shares, were forthcoming.
All was a blank, save the huge lump
sums set down in Mrs. Latimer's day-book,
where the housekeeping expenses were ridiculously
small and the subsidies granted to Mr.
Charles Osborne as monstrously large.

And this,' said Mary, holding out a purse in
which a florin, a bent shilling, and a crooked
sixpence were all the coins it contained ; ' and
this is all the reward I am to have for what I
have done?'

You have that and an escape from gaol,' said
Anthony Harford sternly.

And you, and Mrs. Clanricarde, and the
whole lot of you, that of the story not coming
out in the papers,' said Mary in reply,
defiant to the last. ' But I have not enough to
pay my railway fare ; and at least my wages
are due.'

Here V said Anthony Harford, flinging her a
bank-note as one flings a bone to a dog.

She took it and curtseyed. The conventional

action recalled the conventional manner. Then
with a saucy * Good-morning ' all round, she
went off with her boxes in a cab, and no one
asked or knew where.

I am glad that mother has gone, poor soul,'
she said, as she sank back in the corner of the
railway carriage and wept genuine tears — the
strain now relieved. ' She'd never have faced
it, never ! She'd have broken down as sure as
eggs is eggs : but I have more grit in me than
she had, poor soul ; and I am glad that she was
spared.'

So she passed into darkness as black as that
of interstellar space, and no one ever recognized
in the sober, well-conducted Molly Dance —
Sunday-school teacher of the Methodist chapel

on the outskirts of , the county town — the

woman who had acted for ten years and morea
living lie, and whose mother had personated
a dead lady to draw her income and make it
into a sufficient annuity for her daughter's
lifetime.

She ought to have been prosecuted,' said

Mrs. Clanricarde, when the thing was over and
done with.

She's best left alone,' said Anthony Harford.

And she was kind to my poor Estelle,' chimed
in that foolish George.

And it would have been better for everyone
if she had not been,' snapped Mrs. Clanricarde,.
her shrill voice at its highest pitch.

Her husband looked at her with a strange
expression of mingled fear and aversion. Anthony's
face showed only the aversion without
the fear.

1 Let the dead bury their dead,' he said sternly.
1 If virtue could be measured like land, perhaps
some of our acres would not fetch much. Now
that you have your income, Mrs. Clanricarde,
perhaps you can afford to be generous to the
victim you yourself made.'

1 If I made her you took her, victim or not,'
retorted Mrs. Clanricarde. ' You hold yourself
high, Anthony Harford ; that poor uncouth
Caleb Stagg towers head and shoulders above
you.'

With which Parthian shaft she swept away,
even as Mary had done, and this history knows
her no more.

CHAPTER XV.

THE DAWN OF DAY.

The pendulum of human life beats with constant
regularity, and the sum of happiness or
misery is pretty equally maintained if not
evenly distributed. On the one side we have
sorrow, madness, death — on the other, fulfilled
ambition, radiant hopes, delighted love, a brilliant
future. By the average — the most disappointing
of all the equations made by facts and
figures — those who have drawn blanks have
nothing to complain of, seeing that their neighbours
hold the prizes — that those prizes are of
sufficient quality and number — and that thus
the general average is maintained.

There were the Smythe Smiths, for instance ;
what a handful of prizes they had drawn ! and
of what a fine unclouded blue their sky was
painted ! This marriage with Lady Venetia put
the coping-stone on the pleasant edifice of their
fortunes. It gave just the clamp and mortar
they wanted to consolidate their holding, and
clasped them to the Upper Ten as by adoption,
if not by inheritance. It was the culmination of
their hopes and the last fortress they had set
themselves to win. What more remained to be
conquered would be revealed in time. For that
truth, so well known to mountain climbers — of
further peaks still for ever revealing themselves
as this and this are gained — is as true to the
ambitious, whose last attainment is only a
stepping-stone to another endeavour.

The wedding had been a gorgeous affair, for
the bridegroom had been generous and the
bride's parents were not too sensitive. If money
be the chief factor in a transaction, what folly it
is to pretend disinterestedness and to act coyly !
And, to do the Lacklands justice, they did not
err on that line by a hair's-breadth, but accepted

the relief proffered by their future son-in-law as
graciously as it was offered, and liked him all
the better for his munificence. After the
wedding, the young people had gone off for a
tour round the world in the famous yacht of
former days which once had borne away poor
Charlie Osborne. She had been redecorated
and overhauled from keel to topmast, and was
now one of the best and safest and most comfortable
of her kind. And as, fortunately for
every one, Lady Venetia was a good sailor
and not a coward, the trip had been a success,
and no regrets were added as footnotes to the
text.

A year had passed since this bright chapter
had been written in the Golden Book of Upper-fold
— a year which had been to Anthony Harford
one of blackest gloom, now beginning to
shade off into a lighter but still sufficiently dismal
tone. Lady Elizabeth had not been to
Thorbergh since the catastrophe of Estelle's
death; and no event of any importance had
broken the monotony of his dull days. Still he
lived on with a kind of undefined hope at the

VOL. III. S

back of his consciousness, as one who sees a ray
of light — unformed, but always light — at the
end of a dark alley. Ho knew that life had not
exhausted all its joys for him, and that Fortune
would not always be the jade she had shown
herself of late.

The honeymoon had repeated itself twelve
times, and the month had lengthened out into a
year, when Lawrence Smythe Smith and his
young wife returned to England — to cast anchor
for a time at Upperfold until they had decided
on their own special moorings. The rejoicing
over the return of the son and heir were to be
of the most resplendent kind; and the programme,
as drawn out by the London organizer
hired to give form to the feelings of the Smythe
Smiths, was eminently satisfactory. Our cousins
across the Atlantic put this tangible shaping of
their feelings in a very crude form, and : « How
much are you sorry for V in the subscription-list
of a charity has its analogue in the ' How much
are you glad for V in the outlay of a welcome.

Mr. and Mrs. Smythe Smith were glad for a
very large sum indeed, and the neighbourhood

"would be the gainer. Games, shows, all sorts
of diversions in the park would please the
trivial minds of the simple and untutored. A
tenants' dinner would appeal to their more solid
appreciation. A children's tea, with useful gifts
for wear and toys as the lighter fringes, would
be a fair bid for a generation of popularity ; and
the fireworks at night would delight all alike.
In the house, a stately banquet was arranged for
friends and guests of equal standing, to be
followed by a ball and an illuminated garden.
It was a programme that did infinite credit to
the organizer all through ; and it was sure not
to be marred by injudicious economies. Mr. and
Mrs. Smythe Smith were glad of their son's
return by a very handsome sum indeed ; and,
never parsimonious, they were now truly regal
in their output.

Among those to be asked as intimates, and of
course, were the Kingshouses. The days were
passed when this intimacy had been the bluest
of all their blue ribands to the Smythe Smiths ;
but they still cherished a warm and kindly
feeling, just edged with bygone gratitude, for

s2

the family which, first of all their then social
superiors, had stretched out the right hand of
fellowship to them, and treated them as autochthones,
not sojourners. There was, perhaps, the
finest shade of difference in their tone towards
them — but it was very fine, very delicate, and
the Kingshouses were not susceptible. So
Mrs. Smythe Smith wrote a warm and pressing
letter of invitation, feeling that if Lord Kings-house
would come on their side he would match
Lord Lapland's and Lady Venetia's and keep
the balance equal. My lady, too, colourless
and important as she was in person, would be
of value in name ; and Lady Elizabeth was
always a safe card to play. She had been
'booked' from the beginning — Mrs. Smythe
Smith always having her eyes fixed on probabilities.
She remembered certain things which
made her see ulterior chances. Wait till the

year was out, and then

Since Estelle's death Lady Elizabeth had
neither visited the Smythe Smiths nor seen
Anthony Harford. Something as indefinite as
the hope lying at the back of his consciousness

had held her from coming to Thorbergh during
this first year of his widowhood. She had kept
up a kindly and continuous, but not frequent,
correspondence with him, which had given her
thoughts occupation ; but he had never said
he wanted to see her until now, when the great
fete-day was fixed, and he knew that she was
coming to Upperfold. Then he broke out into
a curious little dithyramb of joy at the prospect
of meeting her again, and even added the
hope that she would stay a long time at Upper-fold
— for his sake. He missed her, he said, out
of his life ; and he was looking forward to the
pleasure of her society with a schoolboy's delight.
A year was a long time for the separation
of two faithful friends — and faithful friends
they had been from the first and would be to
the end. But for the painful memories hanging
about Kingshouse — but for his abhorrence of one
of the people at Les Saules and his contempt for
the other — he would have gone over long ago
to see her — Lady Elizabeth — the Delight of his
Long Ago. But, as things were, the effort would
be too great, and even he was not given to

needless self-torture. It would be all right when
she should be here, and they were able once
more to talk face to face, as in the happy days
of their first acquaintance.

And when Lady Elizabeth read this letter
she first blushed for joy, and then for shame
of that joy ; and hid it in her bosom with a
strange feeling of sacred possession and a
sense of divine secrecy, like some great splendour
of thought shared between her and God.
But alas ! for that second blush ! When she
went to bed she took the letter out of her
bosom and kissed it with a passion, a self-abandonment,
which no one who knew her only from
the outside would have recognized as her characteristic
at all.

I know that I love him she said to herself.
I always have. I should be ashamed to confess
this — but I am not ashamed ! 1 cannot feel
sorry for myself. It is so natural to love him !
Now that he is alone — poor, poor Estelle! —
there is no sin in it. There was not at the first,
and there is not now. Ah ! if he could care forme,
so that I might make him happy and build

up his home again. — Ah V she said with passion,
and here her voice broke into audible sound ;
would that I could !'

So far Lady Elizabeth proved herself no
child of this strange, cold, calculating generation.
She was not ashamed to still love,
having been so far cheated by appearances
in the beginning as to imagine herself sought
when she was only observed. She had not
been sought. Anthony's path had branched
off from hers, and he had followed another,
not herself. Nevertheless, she still stood where
she had been when he had left her for Estelle ;
and the love she had given she had never recalled.
It had been covered down and hidden
out of sight while Estelle lived. For one moment
of self-betrayal it had broken out, to be
damped down as vigorously as before, when its
unlawful passion stung too sharply. But now,
when there was no sin in the feeling there was
no shame in the confession. And Lady Elizabeth
was too sincere not to know herself, and
too strong in her essential purity to be afraid of
the truth.

The fickle skies of our untrustworthy summers
were for once favourable to concerted
plans, and no day could have been more lovely
than this of the young people's fete. The
heaven was cloudless, save for a few wisps and
curls of vapour that softened the glare ; and the
south wind that stirred the leaves and made them
sweet to hear,' like those oak-leaves on Hel vellyn,
brought the sense of freshness which prevented
the summer heat from becoming too oppressive.
There w T as just wind enough to lift the flags away
from the masts, and shake them into life and
movement — to carry the scents of the rarer
and sweeter flowers in gusts of special perfume
that were as the high lights in a picture — the
dominant notes in a melody — the accentuation
of a scheme of colour. The whole thing
was pure perfection ; and man and nature met
in strangely complete harmoniously. From
the one, sorrow seemed to be banished forevermore
— to the other, storm and tempest
seemed a state impossible to come again. It
was a day wherein to live was good — a day
when no one ought to weep or die.

The park was thronged with holiday-makers
in their hundreds. They had come from all
parts of the county and beyond, determined to
enjoy themselves after the manner of the
British Philistine — God save his rude and
thick-skinned soul ! — not abashed by sentimental
regard for aesthetic rules. Loud laughter,
louder cheers, broke through that indescribable
hum of human voices heard from afar — so like
and yet so unlike the hum of bees within a hive
or in the lime-blossoms overhead. Spots and
stripes and lines of colour moved across the
grass, or wound in and out the clumps of trees
set in groups about the park; and distance
gave the gay gowns and ribbons of the women
a chromatic value not to be found on nearer view.
Little children played and ran, and fell like balls
indued with will ; and not the least interesting of
the various parts composing the living picture
were these small creatures given up to enjoyment
like so many birds or lambs. Here a
spangled juggler flashed his knives in the sun,
or sent up his golden balls as quick as showers
of light ; there a Punch's show squeaked the old

deathless drama and rattled out modern tunes
on the Arcadian pipes ; here a group of fine-limbed
acrobats showed their strength and
muscle ; and there a merry-ground tried who
could longest resist dizziness and sea-sickness.
And here, again, some with appetites sharper
set than the rest, had found a convenient diningroom
somewhere in the shade, and were emptying
their handkerchiefs and lightening their
baskets with the gusto of the hunger that is born
of pleasure.

Lady Elizabeth and her father were standing
on the terrace that dominated the garden and
looked over to the park. Lady Kingshouse was
within. Not even on such a summer's day as
this did she adventure much into the open air ;
and her embroidery had become to her by now
what all hobbies become — her very life.

I suppose Anthony Harford will come over
said Lord Kingshouse suddenly.

He and his daughter had been standing quite
silent for some little time, both apparently
watching the scene, and each thinking of something
else.

• I suppose so,' answered Lady Elizabeth.

Her cheeks flushed just as much as if a handful
of monthly roses had been held near them
and the sun had thrown the reflection of their
colour on her face.

4 Ah ! that marriage of his was a blunder,'
said my lord with a sigh for the one part, a shrug
for the other.

4 It was a pity,' she answered.

fc That poor misguided girl !' he continued.
4 1 was deuced sorry for her all through.'

4 Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth ; 4 she suffered as
much as he ; perhaps more than he.'

4 If we had not had that dinner, Delight, it
might never have come to pass,' said the earl
meditatively. ' I have often thought how
strangely great things come about by small
causes. That dinner to have ruled the destinies
of three people !'

4 Yes,' she said.

And she said no more. She found the conversation
difficult.

Just then they saw a horseman come along
the park-road which ran below the gar den wall.

It was a cross kind of road, made for the convenience
of the family when their business lay
to the east and not to the south or west. It
was the road which gave on to the highway
leading to Thrift.

6 That looks uncommonly like Harford V said
the earl.

■ 1 think so too,' said Lady Elizabeth, who
knew that it was he.

And then the horseman, seeing them, took off
his hat and settled the question of his identity.
In a few minutes more they heard his voice in
the room behind them, talking to Lady Kings-house
and expressing his pleasure at seeing her
again.

The earl stepped back out of the sunshine
into the cool shadow of the room. Lady Elizabeth
turned half round in the attitude of a person
expectant but not too avid — with a welcome
ready when claimed, but not thrust forward
with too much insistance. Her lips were parted
into a smile which had in it the crisp lines of
pain as well as the frankness of pleasure ; and
her eyes were dilated till their tender grey was

transformed to black. Anthony shook hands
with Lord Kingston, and repeated the cordial
phrases he had used to the countess, but he saw-only
Lady Elizabeth as she stood on the terrace,
half in profile and all in sunlight — her eyes
turned to the park, while her heart and senses
were in the room. Then, the rightful amount
of attention bestowed on the authorities,
Anthony came out on to the terrace — the hands
of the two friends met — and his eyes looked
into hers with that long searching look which
seemed as if it would scan her very soul and
be never weary of what it saw.

It was not Anthony's way to be hilarious.
Let his mirth be ever so strong, it was deep
rather than broad, and always more quiet than
demonstrative. Those who knew him best
would have seen most clearly how he enjoyed
all the circumstances of the day, while ever
maintaining his ordinary demeanour of self-restraint
and the repose which goes with
dignity. He went out of his way, more than
once, to show the Smythe Smiths the sympathy
of a neighbour and a fellow-landowner with all

they had planned and done ; and he congratulated
them on the success of their fete, and
even carried the beauty of the day to the good
of their account — as if the skies had been swept
clear by their besoms and the south wind had
been blown through their bellows. He was the
very acme of amiability — the very perfection of
kindly courtesy ; and everyone said how brave
Squire Harford looked to-day — the first day,
indeed, that he did not seem to be haunted by
his poor wife's ghost.

He did not laugh ; he did not joke ; he did not
make sly grimaces expressive of his ebullient
spirits; but he impressed them all with the
sense of his hidden joy, and Mrs. Symthe Smith,
for all her pre-occupation with her own concerns,
said once to her husband, in a meaning
whisper : ' What has come to Anthony Harford?
He looks as if he had met an angel by
the way !'

1 Perhaps he did,' said her husband, who knew
as well as she how things stood.

So the glad day passed, and then Anthony
left for the hour, and more, that it would take

him to ride back to Thrift and return to Upper-fold
clothed as a Christian gentleman should befor
a dinner and a ball. No word had been
said, but Lady Elizabeth's heart was full of that
joy which has its other name in fear. He had
looked so much — he had made her feel so
much ; and surely he was not the kind of man
to wilfully mislead and cruelly betray ! He had
made her feel that he loved her — that she could
give him back his lost happiness, and replace
the absent in his heart. And what more does a
true woman ask than to be of good service to
the man she loves ? He had deceived her once
unwittingly, or rather she had deceived herself;
but this time surely she was not following a
marsh-light ! Surely he loved her, and would
prize her love for him ! She was no mere
childish ingenue who does not realize her own
sensations. She was a woman who understood
life — save in such forms of vice and vileness as
come but rarely into a good woman's province
to understand at all.

The dinner passed, as such functions always
do — in enjoyment for the sympathetic ; in bore-clem

for the unsympathetic ; in excitement for the
young ; in bliss or despair for the secretly loving
as they chanced to be placed or mated. To
Anthony and Lady Elizabeth it was a time of
pleasure beyond the reach of words, for they
were together — and that was enough.

As the evening wore on, the ball began ; the
garden was illuminated ; the fireworks flung
up columns of flames which came down in
showers of stars. All the guests left the ballroom
and gathered on the terraces, looking at
the glow-worm like lamps among the flowers,
and the splendour of those artificial asteroids
falling like golden rain from heaven. Many a
word was whispered in that balmy, moonless,
perfumed night which would never have been
said in the day ; and many a rash caress was
given, for weal or woe, as the chance of fortune
might prove.

Under the shadow of the thick trellis that led
to the rose-garden, Anthony and Lady Elizabeth
stood as they had stood on that fateful day
in his study, by the table where he had laid his
revolver. His arms were round her waist ; her

hands were on his shoulders ; but his face was
closer to hers than it had been then, and his voice
was sweeter, as he asked, with a lover's insatiable
insistance :

Tell me again, oh you Delight, that you love
me!'

1 1 do,' she said gently. ' I always have.'

He pressed her to him fondly.

1 At last the long night is over,' he said. ' The
day is breaking, and our sun of happiness has
risen.'

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BT DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE

-a

HURST & Blackett

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

I H-

-4

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS'.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett rois, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Edition*
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in hia
present convenient and cheap shape The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being weir
illustrated and elegantly bound," — Morning Post.

II.— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
Success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this hiB history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

in.— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in nia
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs fruui
the ennui of every-day life"— Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good A Sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by hex which
are as individual as they are elegant We Should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high among
books of its class"— Athenaeum.

V.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think: they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and 1 •,
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit "morning Po*

VI.— ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Adam Gramme ' ia a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in ite
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations iii
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— Morning
Pott.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, Still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written"— Messenger.

VIII.— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Some and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ifi- Papal domination."
—Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Creak. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that Bhe wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she ia
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English"—
Athmaum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned; moreover, the work has an object— a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core"— Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

"A book which has afforded us no slight gratification"— Athenaeum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since BobwoII produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES,"

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found"— Athenaeum.

XII.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

Xii— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the hame
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. "We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven"— Illustrated Newt.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not Iosr excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of fiction"— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. Oliphant.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from flrBt to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags"— Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modern novels"— Observer.

XVI.— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.
BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a paros the Italian peninsula which is ;he
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unextg
grated, and full of opportune instruction." — The Times.

Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. lis
impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject The work
is engaging, because reals'— Athenaeum,

Evil— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Action"— Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
It to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her Story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive"— Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between « John Halifax ' and
1 The Cantons.' "Standard.
"The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good"— Athenaeum.
"This is in every sense a charming novel"— Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM ; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories"— John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader'!
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Woollen
Bawn."— Illustrated News.

XXI.— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it Is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Adele ' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
—John Bull.

' Adele ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
novel"— Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful"— Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Tho
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author"— Saturday Review.

XXHL— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel. Tir
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN CORD Y Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; flt for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
A work of great originality, merit, and power"— Standard.

XXVI— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

A charming tale, charmingly told"— Standard

All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Crank's charming
stories." — John Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching Story
It is a vigorous novel"— Times.

This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good noveL
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches"— Daily Newt

XXVHL— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of *Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius"— Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of bo much merit and Interest as
Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
and so we intend it.''— The Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme"— Time.

A. truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a nich*
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— Saturday Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— Athenaeum.

' St Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded"— Morning Pott.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

11 Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sura to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour. "sport.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Time.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last"— Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
re always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement 'Agnes ' is
story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— M morning Pott.

XXXVI.— A NOBLE LIFE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF M JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the effort"— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble book"— Morning Pott.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well"— Titnr*
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
nixon's very interesting book"— Saturday Review.

XXXVHL— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Alienum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole work
parties with wit and humour"— Quarterly Review.

XLL— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— Time.

Xlii— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags"— Pott.

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works." — Daily Telegraph.

XLLTI— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty"— Standard.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most Successful efforts of ft
successful novelist"— Daily Newt.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.
"The Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which open the
series, • The Unkind Word' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out"— The Echo.

Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

•* ' A Rose in June ' ia as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of CarlingfordV "times.

Xlvi— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of

its kind"— Saturday Review.

Xlvii— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phcobe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette"— Spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

1 • Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour"— Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— The, Times.
'There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— Athenaeum.

Il— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

Luis-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland"— Times.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jefferson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet"— The Times.

'SAM SLICK, THE CLOCKMAKEE.'

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a raffling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and fancy"— Athenaeum.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous as
this. Every line of it tells in some way or other — instructively, satirically, jocosely, or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-going"— Observer.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the
author's admirable works." — Standard.

The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers— its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
aunt readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

"The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor ; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun"— Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
In the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility"— Sunday Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

*• No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour"— Globe.

"Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics— political parties,
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it ia The work will
have a wide circulation." — John Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

In this highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital Stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified"— John Bull.

In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'The
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works"— Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man— a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better"— Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical "Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so"— Examiner.

These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
Charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of 'John Halifax' "— Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and ii
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit" — Post.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and, in addition to its other merit, it is
written in good careful English"— Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

• Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made • John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day"— John Bull

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

• The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The character!
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Post.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume ia remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautified"— Post.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature— and she has entangled them in a story which keeps us
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake' a novel without a fault"— The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forms one of the comforts of a well-appointed home"— Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
"This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' The
spirit of the whole work is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told"— Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of life.' — Examiner.

Few men, and no women, will read ' A Noble Life ' without finding themselves the
better." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest"— Daily News.

A BRAVE LADY.

"A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit"— Examiner.

A most charming story." — Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags"— Post.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Daily News.

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD.

pie author of 'John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
ail that is truly noble, pure, and womanly"— United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

"young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— The Times.

• There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome. "— Athenaeum.

A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors

In elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and

dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural

and clear. —Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

MRS. OLIPEL^JNTT.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam Gramme ' ia a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of it*
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— M morning
Post.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags"— Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs, Margaret
Maitland"— Time*.

AGNES.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— Athenaeum.

Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agnes ' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— M morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "— Times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— Academy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

LONDON : Hues AND Blackett, LIMITED.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, Bleach

in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervade*
the work from the first page to the last"— Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott Bait he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Gazette.

The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty"— Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet"— Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

•' 4 Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— Athenaeum.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour"— Saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London News.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of fiction that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced"—
British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again"— Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

A novel which la the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— Times.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn"— Athenaeum

"A clever novel The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to tr><?
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside whore
truth than Dr. Mac Donald"— Morning Post.

"David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections *re
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating"— Globe,

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which Is no
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

' Sir Gibbie ' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced."
— Scotsman.

' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it la a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, Cs.

DONOVAN:

A Modern ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it ia
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time"— Standard

WE TWO.

"A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE GOLDEN DAYS.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads." — Spectator.

KNIGHT-EEEANT.

"knight-Errant' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of fiction, and
displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works." — Athenaeum.

"The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very charming; there
is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to accomplish its author's purpose"—
Literary World.

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its intense human
feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional proof, if such were needed,
that Miss Lyell has a mandate to write"— Academy.

won BY WAITING.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially;

the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins

their affection, is thoroughly charming ; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life"— Academy.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

OF THE
U N IVLR5ITY
Of ILLINOIS

LG5St
v.*

VOL. II.

THE LONG NIGHT

BY

E. LYNN LINTON

AUTHOR OF

PATRICIA KEMBALL,' ' THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS, :
1 IONE,' ' PASTON CAREW,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All Eights Reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

(CONTINUED.)

MIDNIGHT.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER II.

THE UNEXPECTED VISITOR.

Was it from ignorance or design that Anthony
Harford dispensed with the formalities usual
among civilized people, as touching guest and
host, and set out for Hindfleet without notice
given or time appointed? Even proud folk
sometimes condescend to small ruses ; and
Anthony, though prouder than most, had thus
condescended.

He wanted to take his old friends unawares,
so that he might test them by that most trustworthy
of all personal litmus-papers — surprise.
To give time for preparation was to offer a

B 2

premium for pretence ; which was exactly what
he did not wish. Since his return to England
he had been fanning the embers of his half-extinct
memories, cherishing touching sentiments
and forming dainty pictures of his old friend
and pretty plaything ; and he wanted to see
how he should be received when the stage was
not set nor were the lamps trimmed for his reception.
It was the old parable of The Virgins.
Had the Asplines preserved their oil of affection
for him, or had they wasted it 1

Such ties as Anthony might have had out
there in the Wild West — such loves as might
have brightened his life and softened the
ruggedness of his self-elected path — were
either buried beneath the church-yard clay, or
had been washed away by some great tidal
wave of change — estrangement — who knows
what ? In any case, there was no reason why
he should not give his thoughts, his dreams, his
fancies to Anne Aspline, or to any other. And
in truth he was in the mood which makes what
is called a ' marrying man,' — ready to fall in love
with the first likely girl who presented herself.

Hence it was that, shortly after the interchange
of those formal business letters, he packed up
his portmanteau — so far as he had gone yet, he
disdained a man for his own personal service —
and took the train to Kingshouse, driving up to
Hindfleet unheralded, uninvited, unexpected.

It was a dull winter's day, and the brief twilight
was stealing on like a dusky web woven
between sky and earth. The untenanted and
sodden fields, with their patches of dirty snow
left in the lee of the hedges and their trees
standing like gaunt skeletons in the blank expanse,
looked all the more desolate for the
failure of such dull light as the day had given,
and for the gathering gloom of the coming
darkness. Heavy snow had fallen about a week
since, but now the thaw had reduced everything
to mud and ruin and the sense of an underground
sea stagnating beneath the earth. It
was one of those typical English days which give
foreigners cause to blaspheme and which chill
the very marrow of the stalwart natives themselves
— a day when animals huddle together in
piteous dejection for mutual warmth — when no

birds are to be seen, save crows and sparrows,
and sea-birds driven inland — when men are
morose, and hard drinkers drink heavily — when
women are tearful or shrill-ton sued according
to their pattern, and when even the children do
not laugh — when joy, good luck, the hope of
the future and the beauty of the past are all
dead alike, and nothing is left save the direful
gloom of a universal charnel-house.

The whole scene, like the atmosphere, was so
unutterably dispiriting that Anthony mentally
wondered if the game were worth the candle,
while he muttered into his damp beard a few
objurgations of an American complexion, and
drew his fur-lined coat more closely over his
broad chest. These six miles between Hindfleet
and the Kingshouse station seemed as if they
would never come to an end — as if that interesting
question touching the candle and the game
would never be answered. The way was like
the Irishman's, whereof the end has been cutoff
; and Hindfleet was surely to be found only
in the moon !

At last they made the lane which was so

picturesque in summer, but which to-day was a
mere way of slush and wreck, and, turning
sharply to the right, came to the lodge gates of
a w r ell-kept place, which the driver said briefly
was Hindfleet.

At last V said Anthony, with a certain grim
humour, which the driver resented as a reflection
on his broken-kneed aud broken winded beast —
to his mind quite as good as any reasonable man
could expect at such a place as Kingshouse.
And if gentlemen wanted blood horses for their
carriages on such a day as this, they had better
bring them along with them by train, he said
shortly, while he stood stolidly by the poor jaded
brute's drooping head, as though he would runaway
at the first chance, and was as bad to hold
as if his sire had been Bucephalus.

The servants were just beginning to close the
shutters and light up the house as Anthony
entered. Already the hall was a-glow with light
and warmth. The freshly-trimmed fire was blazing
in the open grate. The large Gothic lanthorn
was like a sun swinging in chains from the ceiling.
Coming out of the dimness of the outer air

it struck on Anthony with a delightful sense of
welcome, and was, as it were, the keynote of the
whole harmony. His eye caught one or two
things which he remembered, and which carried
him back to his long past years. How familiar
they looked ! That otter — that * salmon ferox,' —
those ptarmigan, male and female, poor hapless
lovers ! — the long-legged heron and the round-eyed
horned owl — the slender-bodied weasel and
the brilliantly plumaged king-fisher — each in its
respective case, duly labelled and inventoried —
why, it seemed only yesterday that he had looked
at them with a boy's longing to capture their
like, when he, too, should be able to tabulate
places and dates, and blazon himself as the
plucky sportsman whose bag was worth arsenic
and glass.

While he was taking off his coat, paying the
man, and giving curt directions about his portmanteau
— which he called a valise — his mind
went in parallel lines, and the past and present
were equally distinct. He was sincerely moved,
and prepared for an unwonted amount of
enthusiasm. His American reserve had melted

as frost beneath the breath of the south wind.
His caution had gone with his reserve. Hindfleet
would be to him what the old Hall had been —
his home ; and the Asplines would be as his own.
But while this rush of friendly sentiment was
sweeping through his heart, Mrs. Aspire, in the
drawing-room, looked at her daughter with dismay,
and whispered in a voice of conventional
horror :

1 Anne, I do verily believe that creature has
come unannounced. Who on earth else would
call on such a horrid evening as this, and be
such a long time in the hall ? What a fool he
must be ! My word !'

Surely not,' said Anne, with a slight flutter
at her heart ; for all her denial, feeling very certain
that it was Anthony Harford and none other
whose voice and feet filled the hall with such
plenitude of masculine vigour.

And then, conjecture was ended by the servant
opening the door, and 'Mr. Harford' coming
from the light of the hall into the semi-darkness
of the room.

You see, I took you at your word, and came

right away without farther notice said a richly-toned
voice with an unmistakable American
accent — a voice in which, for all its richness of
tone, however, no play of feeling of any kind
was to be detected. It stated a fact, it did not
express an emotion ; but it seemed also to make
sure of a response.

Both ladies rose from their chairs and went
forward to meet their visitor. How stout dear
old Cooke had grown ! She was like one of
her own butter-tubs set on feet. And how
slender that round little puff-ball looked, outlined
against the fire which touched the edges
of her dress and figure with a kind of fiery glow
half-flame, half-colour !

1 Why, here you are, just as in old times, and
I am right glad to see you again !' he added,
meeting them with both hands held out.

Mrs. Aspline had intended to be properly
dignified, as became a lady a little offended by
a liberty and stiffened by long absence ; but
hospitality conquered temper, and she greeted
Anthony as warmly as if he had been the old
friend expected and desired of his dreams. Her

dignity dropped to her feet like a veil unpinned ;
while Anne, who had intended to be sweetly
patronizing — perhaps even affectionate, in a
superior, sisterly kind of way — was suddenly-reduced
to a state of embarrassment which made
her appear as hard as a wooden doll and as cold
as an ice-maiden. This was not the man to
patronize, instruct, reform, rescue — this man who
stood before her as a king and made her feel as
small as the child he remembered. She was so
completely taken aback by this sudden shifting
of the wind — she was so embarrassed and discomfited
— that she lost all vital hold over herself,,
and could only save herself from open confusion
by this air of wooden hardness — this appearances
icy insensibility.

1 Only a little cuss,' thought Anthony in his
adopted vernacular.

Only a cuss, but how pretty ! And where
lives the man for whom a woman's beauty does
not count as a moral grace excusing any amount
of cussedness ?

He shook hands with her as warmly as good
breeding allowed. He would have made his

land-press warmer had he dared. Then he said
in the tone of one making a discovery :

Why ! you have grown right tall — that's a
fact!'

Yes, I suppose I am taller than when you saw
me last,' said Anne, not knowing whether to
most dislike the American intonation of that rich
voice, or most admire the personality of the
handsome speaker.

She was only a tiny mite when you went
away — just a baby,' said Mrs. Aspline, as her
contribution to the inventory of reminiscences.

Yes, just a baby,' said Anthony, still holding
Anne's hands and looking into her pretty face
with his searching eyes, a little deep set in the
orbit and overshadowed by the straight, keen
brows above. ' Why ! you were just a ball in
my arms. I remember how I used to toss you
about ! — " up to the skies and down again " — as
you used to say. And how you used to kick and
scream, and pretend you didn't like it, and then
ask for more. Funny little thing you were !
But you were a cunning little thing, too ; and
now you are a young lady.'

Anne put on a dignified little look and air.
It seemed somehow to rasp the fine edge of her
modesties to remind her of these inconsiderate
times. If her horizon, her latitude, her outlook
had changed, her identity remained the same,
and there had been no solution of continuity in
the essential I. She was still the same actual
creature as the humanized puff-ball who had
been tossed up in the air by those two large
hands which held her own, and grasped them
with such a fervent pressure — who had been
carried in those strong arms and set as a little
queen on her throne on those broad shoulders —
and who had been even carried pig-aback, and
kissed by those now bearded lips scores of times
past counting.

1 1 do not remember,' she said coldly.

1 do,' said Anthony dryly.

He dropped her hands, and Anne no longer
felt as if his eyes looked straight into her heart.

'Why did you not give us word of your
arrival V asked Mrs. Aspline, hospitably reproachful.
' I would have sent to the station to meet
you.'

f It was not worth while,' returned Anthony.

His humane impulses had received a check,
and he had in a manner to make a fresh start.
Anne's coldness had chilled him, and he did not
quite see which way to take.

It would have been pleasant,' Mrs. Aspline
insisted.

I found a buggy,' he returned.

4 That horrid fly with a broken-kneed horse !'
said Anne, with a smile that was intended to
neutralize the flavour of her slightly acidulated
prudery.

They mostly are in this old country,' said
Anthony with a very pronounced drawl ; and
again Anne hated him for his voice. But how
handsome he was ! How well he bore himself !
like a king for patent dignity and that superb
air of self-respect which is as indescribable as
an aroma but as visible as light. That subtle
something belonging to all Americans who have
led the adventurous life of the West — that consciousness
of personal value which yet is not
vanity — made itself as clear to her as her acidulated
prudery had been to him, and put her in

the wrong with herself. This was certainly not
the man she had expected ; and it takes time to
re-adjust a mental lens.

Why, Anthony !' cried Mrs. Aspline, startled
into familiarity ; ' our English horses are superior
to any in the world !'

Fact V queried Anthony. ' I reckon one of
our mustangs would give the pick of your old
three legs as many points as you asked for, and
beat you at a hand-gallop after. Have you a
Maud S. in any of your stables ? And which
of sour old weeds would carry the Yosemite
stage or climb up the Rocky mountains'? No,
Mrs. Aspline, America takes the shine out of you
for horseflesh just as for most else. So I tell you.'

6 Why, you have come back more an American
than an Englishman,' cried Anne, with quite a
nice little smile.

You bet !' said Anthony briefly ; and mother
and daughter exchanged glances, which Anthony
smiled internally to see.

I will fool them to the top of their bent,' he
said to himself; '• and if they see my game they
are 'cuter than they look.'

But now the scene shifted altogether, and the
ordinary routine of hospitality had to be gone
through — the room assigned, the luggage — that
one black shiny valise — taken up, and the
domestic programme arranged so as to include
Anthony Harford as a guest for as many days
as he would care to stay, or until the terms of
the trusteeship should be satisfactorily settled.

1 wish she were franker, with more go in her,
more substance,' thought Anthony, as he dressed
for dinner and took more than ordinary pains
with himself.

What a pity he is so Americanized ! He is
not like an English gentleman,' thought Anne,
as she sat, her hands folded in her lap and her
opaque, white, square-shaped nails horribly conspicuous,
while the maid arranged her hair, put
in her earrings, and dressed her as if she had
been a doll or a child. * But he is very handsome,'
she thought again ; < and perhaps that
bad manner will wear off in time. At any rate
he is our trustee, and I am bound to make the
best of him.'

But when they met, a curious coldness had

set in between them ; and Anne's charitable impulse
of mild belief, like Anthony's more powerful
solvent of admiration, could do nothing
against the strange influence which had sent
their feelings down to zero — like cream between
the hasp and hinges of a refrigerator.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

UNDER THE MICROSCOPE.

The days passed, as these days of meeting
between old friends long separated always do
pass, in noting the changes wrought by time,
and feeling for the ground still left common.
Each topic of conversation was as a landmark
setting out the way and indicating the country
— and these topics were inexhaustible. But
it was chiefly Mrs. Aspline who talked. Anne
was merely the chorus, annotating rather than
amplifying ; while Anthony did little more than
reply, with a notable paucity of words and as
notable directness to the point. Sometimes he
seemed to go out of his way to offend their
patriotic principles or their social prejudices

by the things he said and by the manner in
which he said them. He held the largest number
of the gods dear to British respectability as so
many battered old wooden idols, good for ,
but for little else; and his thorns
crackled under various sacred pots with a concentrated
scorn decidedly unpleasing. His
central point was the passionless stoicism of
an Indian. He would not praise and he was
never angry. He could not be stirred to any
kind of enthusiasm nor to any kind of righteous
indignation. Had he been Red Shut or Sitting
Bull himself, he could not have been more
chary of encomium on things specially Britannic.
He owned up, however, as he phrased it,
to the beauty of the gentlemen's parks and the
smartness of the-horse Guards on parade.
Almost all else was inferior to American parallels,
and poor one-horse affairs generally. He nearly
caused Mrs. A saline to topple off her chair in an
apoplectic fit by his strictures on the House of
Lords, primogeniture, the Three Estates, and an
Established Church claiming to be National in
the face of all the other sects; and he proc



duce a silence like that of death, when, to cap
his audacious idea of a great ,
he said that he would give the old
country fifty years, and then she would be on
her knees to the States begging to be incorporated
in the Union. And when Anthony said
this, Mrs. Aspline, who had the passionate
patriotism of one who knows no other country
but her own, and who, therefore, despises all
foreign nations as inferior and comparatively
barbarous, forgot that he had ever been a
favourite with her when a boy, and Anne no
longer thought him handsome.

All the same, he showed no warmth, even
when most audacious. His lines were broad
and his words uncompromising; but he was
philosophically critical rather than passionately
antagonistic. And he was at the same time
curiously reserved. He was like one of those
huge oil-jars from which trickles the golden
fluid drop by drop — samples only of the bulk
within, but not that bulk itself. It was provoking
to feel that he showed so little of himself
when he spoke, and was so much a mere

medium of thoughts in the general air. Why
did he dribble out these mere samples of opinion
instead of pouring forth himself in a generous
flood that would amuse them to hear and
give them something tangible to hold ? They
would have liked it better had he launched out
into vehement denunciations instead of simply
ripping up their sacred oriflammes into so many
fluttering rags. Anne was as little given to
hysterics as was her mother ; but she, like that
mother, felt the want of outflow in their new
friend with olden memories, and thought him
horribly cold and ' shut up.' Yet he had something
in his eyes and face that was by no means
cold or restricted; and though they were so
often irritated with him, they were forced to
respect him even when most annoyed, and to
acknowledge his superiority. Deferential and
full of thought for them as he was. he was yet
their master ; and they felt it.

To Anne this sense of power, of superiority,
was a new sensation which had both its pleasure
and its discomfort. This old friend with a new
face seemed to her almost the only real man she

had ever seen — as different from the 'curled
darlings ' she had hitherto known, as shadows
thrown on the screen are different from real
things. What did the various young curates
who had meandered this ways, fresh from college
and the cricket-field, know of life as such a man
as Anthony Harford knew it ? What was their
experience of ' sets ' and ' dons,' compared to his
of gamblers and miners, cowboys and prospectors
? What learning got out of musty old tomes
equalled this studied from the living page of
nature and humanity? Was familiarity with
the Councils and the Fathers — ability to ' find
their way about patristic literature ' — on a par
with a man's power of finding his way over a
pathless prairie, or through a tangled forest, by
that sixth sense, that sublimated faculty of perception,
which makes him master of things and
lord of himself ? Was Charlie Osborne's artistic
perception of form and colour equal to this, the
very highest reach to which observation can go 1
Was Lord Eustace Inchbold's soldiering at the
Horse Guards to be spoken of in the same breath
as this other's deadly encounters with bushrangers

and Indians, whose treachery he divined, and,
divining, frustrated f Was even Lord Royne's
Indian experiences equal to Anthony's, Mexican
or Texan ? Was grouse-shooting or deer-stalking
equal to tracking a grizzly to his own home and
meeting him face to face and foot to foot in a
struggle for life or death, where only a man of
heroic strength and courage could win? All
that Anne had ever read of adventures in any
country — India, Africa, America, Canada, indifferently
— trotted through her head in rapid succession
; and Anthony was credited with as
much prowess of a varied kind as would have
set up a dozen Sir Guys or as many Bids. She
was never tired of her dreams, looking at him
from between her half-closed lids, and moving
him over the chess-board of her fancy into all
the squares that man could fill.

What Anthony thought of his fair friends and
hostesses was his own secret only. Outwardly,
he was quietly kind, and chivalrous as well,
with a certain superficial and unobtrusive familiarity
— or rather absence of formality — that had
nothing in it personal, nothing dangerous. He

treated Anne like a reasonable being, and neither
flattered her nor made love to her. He talked to
her as he talked to her mother — on the same subjects,
never touching even the outside fringes of
undesirable topics. He never made eyes at her ;
never said anything in a softer voice for no one
else to hear ; nor used phrases capable of bearing
a second meaning. In all this he was as straight
and as uninteresting — as a die. He criticized
her freely, and he laughed at her in a good-humoured,
but always rather earnest, manner.
He expressed perhaps more surprise than condemnation
at her indolence, her frivolous tastes,
her restricted reading, her ignorance of history
and geography, and the like. But his surprise
was in reality condemnation. And when Anne
fished for praise, as she often did, he put the line
aside and refused to examine the bait.

She could do nothing with him. She had to
acknowledge that to herself — that inner self to
whom we never lie. Try as she would, he evaded
her ; and often she did not know whether to cry
for mortification or to hate him for revenge ; and
sometimes she did both together.

All this time she felt and knew that he was
watching her as keenly as the traditional cat
watches the traditional mouse. She knew that
he was studying her character to its depths ;
probing and plumbing, and saying nothing of
what he dredged up. For she was perverse,
like most girls, and took a wilful pleasure in
making white appear black and a square look
like a round, thinking that she misled him, and
thus had the credit due to superior craft — and
not seeing that this, too, was gauged and seen
through.

If only he would have spoken and been confidential
— though confidential to blame — she
would have been more content. As things
were, she knew that she was under a microscope
; and she did not like it. She would have
liked it less had she known that Anthony
Harford had come in the mood which makes a
marrying man — that mood which looks for
causes of content and admiration rather than
the reverse— and that, had she fed his nascent
fire with but a sprinkling of brushwood, and not
deadened it down with ashes, the whole run of

his thoughts and his estimate of her would have
been different. He would not have criticized
so much and he would have admired more.
For minds have facets which reflect according
to the angle ; and tender growths of feeling are
killed by coldness as flowers in the garden when
the frost comes. That microscope, so unsparingly
applied, showed cells and fibres of which
Anthony did not approve; and what might have
been blind acceptance was now cold vivisection.
We all know how in a country place small
events swell into importance, like those black
crows of immortal memory. The fact of
Anthony Harford's arrival at Hindfleet went
the round of the restricted society at Kings-house
like the tearing of a piece of paper in the
Ear of Dionysius. Report exaggerated and
multiplied the most trivial circumstances, till a
hundred artificial buds burdened on the
original stem ; and Anthony's fortune, adventures,
intentions, and conditions generally, were
made by fancy as different from what they were
in fact as is the Hindu's sleight-offhand, which
produces wild beasts out of an empty tent, and

plucks a ripe mango from a dead stick. But
rumour turned her magnifying glass chiefly on
his fortune. That Thrift was a fine property as
well as a pretty place every one knew ; but the
rent as settled by the assessor of taxes was one
thing, and Anthony's private pile made in
America was another. How that private pile
had been made was the great Proteus of conjecture,
which changed its shape in each mouth
whence it issued. By gambling, said some ; by
mining, said others — he, Anthony Harford, the
English gentleman, working like and with those
ruffians spoken of by Bred Harte ; by ' striking
ile ;' by shoddy ; by slave-dealing ; by political
corruption ; by a ring in cotton, railroads, stocks
what not. In any case, there it was; and
how heavy it lay on its owner's conscience and
whence it had sprung — in what slough of sin
and crime its roots were planted — all these were
his affair and no other person's. The one
thing certain was, that pile made the income of
the owner of Thrift of more value than a Scotch
duke's, and worthy the consideration of a
German princess.

Naturally the Asplines were ' in society ' in
Kingshouse ; but they were not among the more
cherished members. They were received, as of
course, in this autocratic age, but no one made
much account of them — no one forged with
them such strong links of friendship, for instance,
as those which bound Lady Elizabeth and
Estelle. They were slightly in a false position
social coffins of Mahomet, suspended between
two terms and belonging to neither. They
were above the need of such patronage and instruction
as Caleb Stagg required to make him
in any way passible , and they were just a line
below the high-water mark of even a country
place. Hence, though admitted they were not
incorporated, and were only seen at the more
generalized functions, whence to have been shut
out would have been to be * cut.'

Neither regretted this slender holding on to
society. Mrs. Aspline was a shrewd woman,
without illusions and remarkable for commonsense.
For her own part, she valued more her
public reputation in the place than any amount
of private friendship ; and cared rather to be

respected for her generosities than liked for herself.
She was always a little shaky in her social
grammar, and she knew that she was. But
people could not laugh at her subscriptions,
though they might at some of her nouns and
adverbs. And the subscriptions made the more
solid basis of the two. As for Anne, she was
too indolent to desire even pleasure. She had
that desperate lack in the young of want of
earnestness. She was not religious, nor artistic,
nor enthusiastic about anything whatsoever.
She was nothing but self-indulgent in an inoffensive
kind of way, leading to sleep, not sin.
She was too dreamy to care for realities. Her
imaginary dramas stood her in stead of action,
and she preferred her own world, self-created,
to that made by others. So things had ever
been, ' nemo contradicente ;' but now the ball had
got an extra twist, and the advent of Anthony
Harford had given all a different complexion.
Such personalities as his do not grow like
blackberries in a place like Kingshouse ; and
society was sore put to it how to do sufficient
honour to the new-comer without demonstrating

too plainly to poor Cooke that she was
only the occasion and not the circumstance — an
inseparable accident, but in no wise integral.
Specially was Mrs. Clanricarde put to it — she
who had held aloof from the Asplines with
rather venomous renunciation, seeing in Anne
a formidable rival to Estelle — money-bags beating
beauty in the matrimonial market, and birth
coming nowhere. But now, how gladly she
would have rubbed out those past years on the
slate of time and have made friends with one
who had such a friend as this fabulously wealthy
Anthony Harford ! But the slate of time is a
stubborn record-keeper, and only itself can
efface what is written there. And Mrs. Aspline
had keen eyes and a good memory. Yet she,
too, was sorry she could not flourish a better
social roll-call before the eyes of her guests.
The winter a little helped her. ' In the country,'
she said more than once, 'so little was done
in the winter-time. In the summer there were
garden-parties and all that, but in winter people
did not care to come out.'

And Anthony, who had been so long living

out of the run of social entertainments as to
have lost all taste for them and almost all
remembrance, accepted her excuses as valid, and
was by no means disturbed by the paucity of
visitors or events.

Nevertheless, something must be done for her
own credit. So Mrs. Aspline took heart of grace,
and, a little abashed by her own boldness, issued
invitations for a dinner party to meet Mr.
Harford of Thrift. Her invitations were only to
the earl and countess, Lady Elizabeth, Mr. and
Mrs. Stewart, and Mr. Medlicott, the curate — a
young man with a fascinating moustache like a
dandy layman's and the bearing of a well-drilled
officer, who wore no signs of his calling in his
attire but went out to dinner in the studs, tie
and swallow-tail coat of an ordinary gentleman
in ordinary evening dress. Which did not
prevent the queerest mixture of High Church
doctrines with Broad Church practice to be found
in any pulpit or any drawing-room. Accordingly,
the notes were sent, and in due course the answers
were received. All accepted save Lady Kings-house
; for which Mrs. Aspline was duly grateful.

It made her party more manageable as well as
more evenly balanced ; and it took off both a
dead weight and an embarrassment. Quiet in
manner and restricted in intellectual activity
as Lady Kingshouse was, she was poor Cooke's
social l bogie.' Stupid as she undoubtedly was,
she was none the less an adept, initiated into all
the mysteries which make up the sum total of
social superiority. She was one of the * pore
' whose dye the enriched servant
could never attain — whose dye none but those
born into it, indeed, ever can attain ! Poor
Cooke always felt as if those languid, slow-moving,
slightly staring eyes were like one of
her own old flanders wherein she was strained
one of her own old sieves through which she
was 'passed.' She knew that every slightest
infraction of the unwritten law was seen and
noted ; and, knowing this, her social enamel
had a tendency to crack and peel off and leave
the badge of the ' cordon bleu ' distinctly visible.
So that things were all working together for
good ; and the plea of indisposition on the part
of my lady was gratefully received.

1 We shall have a charming party, Anne,' she
said to her daughter, as she flung her the decisive
notes. 'I am very glad for Anthony's
sake. He will see that we are respected here,
when an earl can come to dinner.'

1 don't think he cares much about earls or
that sort of thing,' said Anne languidly. ' He
has been too long in America. He has come
back such a dreadful Republican !'

1 He will get over that after he has been a
short time in England,' said Mrs. Aspline, sensibly
enough. 'Nothing cures a man of all
that wicked revolutionary nonsense so much as
having property of his own. When he has
got used to the possession of Thrift I don't
think he will care to give it up to the socialists
and dynamitards, as he pretends now he
would be ; and he, like every Englishman in the
world, will be proud to dine with a live lord.'

'Perhaps,' said Anne. 'But then, you see,
Mr. Harford is scarcely an Englishman now.'

Oh !' said Mrs. Aspline jauntily ; ' what's bredin
the bone sticks to the flesh, and he can't help
himself.'

VOL. II. D

Mamma !' said Anne with plaintive remonstrance
; * how fond you are of those horrid
proverbs.'

Yes, I am, Anne ; and it's a bad habit that I
can't get rid of,' returned her mother penitently.
But it's only to you, dear. I don't do much of
it in company.'

1 In society, of course not,' said Anne with a
slight emphasis.

And just then Anthony Harford came into the
room.

Well, Anthony, I've got up my dinner-party
for you,' said his hostess with a beaming face.

Why did you give yourself this trouble V he
returned. 'We were very well as we were.
Don't you think so, Miss Anne V

1 It will be pleasant er for you to see our neighbours,'
she answered.

Oh, as for that, yes. I don't object to my
kind,' said Anthony laughing. ' Count or
cowboy, it's all one to me so long as he goes
straight'

Well, we have not got a count, but we have
an earl for you,' said Mrs. Aspline, always beaming.

' Lord Kingskouse and kis daughter, Lady
Elizabeth, are coming. So it will be quite a
splash affair, I can tell you.'

Anne coloured, and turned away ker head.

I am sure it will,' said Antkony good-naturedly.
e We shall have a kirk old time ; shan't we,
Miss Anne?'

1 1 hope you will enjoy yourself,' said Anne
primly.

< And you V

I ? I do not care for society,' ske answered
still primly.

Not with a live old earl V ke asked.

1 1 Hke Lord Kingskouse and Lady Elizabeth,'
ske said evasively.

And Mrs. Aspline, in a pet, cried brusquely :
Antkony Harford, if you could make my girl a
little more like others — brisker and with more
go in ker — I'd thank you.'

< It's work trying,' drawled Antkony coldly.
Then seeing ker face flame with vexation, ke
added with marked kindness : ' but she'll do very
well as ske is, Mrs. Aspline. Gals are best not
all alike.'

d 2

1 She might be more like others, and yet she'd
be unlike enough,' said Mrs. Aspline as her
parting shot, vexed beyond her usual placid good
temper by Anne's almost wooden indifference to
the party, the live earl, Anthony Harford, and
every mortal tiling in the world as she sometimes
said — indifferent to such a point as if
nothing but an earthquake could shake her up.

This, then, was the way in which the Aspline
dinner-party came about. And the Clanricardes
were out of it.

CHAPTER IV.

FRESH LINK S — I.

Mrs. Aspline's dinner was a success. With her
delicate cuisine and admirable cellar it could not
possibly be a failure. For even those who insist
most strenuously on the supremacy of the mind
over the body, cannot deny the geniality which
comes like golden sunlight over those incarnate
spirits called men and women, after they have
well eaten and judiciously drunk. Nor can they
refuse to see how different is this second state
from the first, while brains were torpid because
blood was stagnant, and good-humour was absent
because the digestive organs were uneasy
for want of work.

To-night all the conditions necessary for enjoyment

were present. The cuisine was perfect
and the cellar faultless, as has been said. Lord
Kingshouse was a charming companion when in
the vein, and he was in the vein to-night.
Merely to look at Lady Elizabeth was a pleasure
equal to that given by a picture by Affable or a
spray of apple-blossom. And then their rank in
lord-loving England was as the diamond in the
gold setting — the social crystallization of their
personal supremacy.

Mr. and Mrs. Stewart were general favourites.
Born peculiarities, wherever they went they were
liked; at Kingshouse they were loved. Mr.
Medlicott was as chirp as a bird, and more like
a bridegroom in his bearing than a man consecrated
to preach of sin and death. Anthony
Harford was, of course, more interesting than
anyone else to a society which knew itself a
little too intimately for freshness, if it had the
confidence of familiarity in its stead. Mrs.
Aspline's want of thorough breeding was well
concealed under her studiously quiet manner ;
while Anne was just what she always was — pretty,
with certain defective points, languid, negative,

somewhat stupid, but perfectly inoffensive if not
actively charming. She was the neutral tint
among the stronger colours ; and as such she had
her value. That, indeed, was just her place and
character. She was neutral. Gently spoken of
by all, she was enthusiastically loved by none ;
and to Mrs. Clanricarde alone was she, in any way,
a bete noire. But then maternal jealousy can make
a bete noire out of a seraph or a doll indifferently.
It was, however, to Anthony Harford to whom
the honour of the evening really belonged. He
was a new experience to Kingshouse, and for a
moment distanced even the earl. The earl himself,
by the way, took to him, as the phrase
goes, quite as warmly as anyone else. As, by
reason of his straitened means, he had to give
up much of his inherited position in the gay
world — even when Parliament was sitting
generally managing to pair that he might thus
avoid the expenses of a London season — he was
not blase with excitement on the one hand, and
he was slightly bored with his life on the other.
Thus he was exactly in the frame of mind which
welcomes a new-comer of interesting experiences,

if that new-comer be sufficiently vouched for
socially ; and Anthony went in and won, as he
himself would have said, l hands down

As if he divined his duty to his old friend Cooke,
and determined to do it gallantly, Anthony took
on himself the whole burden of the man's part
in the house. He told his best stories in his
dry American way ; and he told them with that
quaint simplicity which, though it does not
testify to truth, destroys all appearance of
braggadocio. They were chiefly stories of his
own adventures, or the adventures of others
which he had witnessed. They included a
great deal of promiscuous shooting, and lives
carried in the hand as carelessly as a boy might
carry a cock-chafer. They had to do with
sheriffs ; vigilance committees ; jails which could
not hold their prisoners, and which men in belts
and boots stormed either for rescue or for lynching;
horse-stealers and improvised gallows;
Indians, cowboys, and buffaloes; rattlesnakes and
grizzlies ; with oddly-framed political notes flung
in at haphazard. No one in the room clearly
understood what these political notes really indicated,

yet, because the names were familiar,
all thought they did. Had anyone been calledon
to define the principles involved in this platform
or that — even to tabulate the distinction
between a Republican and a Democrat — he
would have made a fine somersault into the
vague. But Anthony assumed the knowledge
he would not have found had he looked for it ;
and his stories were none the less enjoyed because
they were only imperfectly understood.

Perhaps the men a little discounted these
adventures, at least in their entirety. Aggregation
is a snare to many who think it no harm to
concentrate on one things which have happened
to many ; and to exaggerate the filling in is not
like creating the skeleton out of nothing. The
women were not so critical. What they did not
understand they took on trust, and found the
exercise of faith pleasant. A handsome man
always is taken on trust by the average woman,
who reserves her doubt for her pretty sisters or
unreasonable brothers. And the present experience
went in line with all the past. To Lady
Elizabeth especially was this new-comer charming.

Opposites are not necessarily antagonists.
Sometimes they combine and form an amalgam,
like the vinegar and sugar of a sauce. Inhumanity
they fuse, like Desdemona and
Othello, Medora and the Corsair, when set in
the flame of love. So that it was not contrary
to reason or fact that Anthony Harford's rough
experience in the Wild West seemed to the
sweetest, gentlest lady in the land — even more
than they had to Anne — so many deeds of heroic
manliness which claimed all men's consideration
and respect.

8 You have gone through terrible dangers
she said, after his grimly quiet account of how
he and a grizzly had had a hand-to-hand struggle,
and how only after a fearful mauling had he
been the insensible conqueror of his bleeding-foe.


1 Well, I have had a pretty rough time here
and there,' he answered ; ' but one gets used toit,
as to all things.'

I don't think one would get used to ,
as you have been so often,' said
Anne simply.

Mr. Medlicott laughed a little jauntily. He
had only lately come to Kingshouse, and as yet
did not quite know the intricacies of the place.
And, as he believed that Mr. Anthony Harford's
bow was somewhat of the longest, and that his-arrows
went a little wildly into space, and as he
thought Anne Aspline sweet and knew that she
was wealthy, he was not sorry to annotate her
remark with this jaunty little laugh, which gave
it a certain piquancy, as a roulade of incredulity
voiced a little out of tune.

A strange gleam shot from Anthony's eyes.
Save for that sudden flash he did not appear to
have heard either the girl or the curate.

1 You see in these wild places a man has to be
pretty smart in all ways,' he said, addressing-lady
Elizabeth. ' He has to know how to use
his hands — on man and beast.' He drew his
lips close when he said this, and spoke with a
certain artificial emphasis. ' Life out there is
not as it is in England, where your most formidable
game is a hare or a fox, and where no
man takes up a sneer for fear of creating a scene.
Out there we reckon ourselves pretty much

equal to all things and each other ; and whether
it's a grizzly or a — gentleman — we know how
to meet him.'

8 Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth, seeing nothing
behind the mere words, which in themselves
were incontrovertible. And :

Yes,' said the old earl, with more meaning
because a clearer insight. ' That makes a
return to the old country, in a sense, a new
experience. So much has to be unlearned, as
well as a few new phases of thought and feeling
to be learned.'

As what, my lord V asked Anthony. ' The
tame acceptance of impertinence, for instance V

6 Oh,' sa id Lord Kingshouse with a smile ;
our duelling days are over, you see. We hold
it to be both more manly and more civilized to
ignore small affronts, of which the disgrace
recoils on the head of the offender. Civilization
demands self-suppression in more ways than
one ; and in this among the rest.'

I do not hold with you, sir,' said Anthony
hastily. ' A man's self is superior to all conventional
rules. If his honour is touched, ever

so lightly, he should know how to defend it, and
be ready with his tools.'

< And what do you make of the sixth commandment
V put in Mr. Stewart, as a kind of
protest due to his cloth.

1 The Decalogue has got to take care of itself,
I reckon, when men have their shooting-irons
handy, and fools provoke them to draw,' said
Anthony slowly.

Ah, well, we have lived out of all that rough
and ready method of self-defence,' said the vicar,
good-humouredly ; ' a return to it would be
clearly a retrogression — an act of atavism —
which in these days of belief in evolution would
be a sinning against light.'

I am afraid the sin would have to be committed
if the occasion came my way,' returned
Anthony ; and then the ladies rose to leave the
table, and all four were about equally shocked.

Even Anne thought her Huron was really too
ferocious. And this was the general thought.
No one took his part when Mrs. Stewart broke
out in her eager way, and said it was dreadful,
and he must be brought into a better frame of

mind. Such a fine, straightforward, handsome
fellow as he was, it was a thousand pities he
should be so fierce and undisciplined! And
What savages Americans must be !' she added,
as her last remark ; and not even Lady Elizabeth
opposed a disclaimer.

When the gentlemen appeared, however, all
trace of that significant little brush had gone.
The earl and Anthony had evidently fallen on
some points congenial to both, and were talking
in cheery tones together as they came through
the doorway. The clerical-looking curate
was easy, smiling, unembarrassed as usual, but
he gave the Americanized Englishman a wide
berth, and was evidently on what is called
good behaviour. Mr. Stewart was as he always
was — kind, sincere, but a little lethargic
according to the estimate of modern zeal — a
gentleman as well as a parson, and a scholar
rather than either. But the colour of the whole
thing rested with the earl and Anthony, and the
friendship they seemed to have struck up each
with the other.

Then I shall see you tomorrow V said Lord

Kingshouse, as they parted. ' You will be
interested.'

Yes, certainly, with much pleasure, sir,'
returned Anthony. ' To-morrow, in the afternoon.'


'Interested in what, father?' asked Lady
Elizabeth, as they were driving home.

1 In my observatory,' said the earl.

i Is Mr. Harford an astronomer V she asked
again.

As much as all educated men are,' he returned.
' He is an uncommonly nice fellow ! A
little too hasty, perhaps ; but that is to be accounted
for by the wild life he has led. Outside
his being rather too free with his hands,
and too apt to take offence — that fool Medlicott
very nearly put his foot in it ! — he seems to bea
first-rate fellow, and really Mrs. Aspline might
do worse than nail him on the spot for that girl
of hers

She is too dreamy and unpractical for such a
man ; at least 1 should think so,' said Lady
Elizabeth, feeling that Anne Aspline was in noway
the right kind of wife for Anthony Harford.

He lias been accustomed to so much cleverness
and quickness over there in America. I should
think he would find Miss Aspline rather dull if
he had to live with her always. Of course, I
do not know. I only think so.'

'Oh, you Delight!' laughed the earl. 'As if
men did not always like their opposites ! What
would become of society if two flames of fire or
two bales of wool married ? Why, we should
run into types more marked than pouter pigeons
and fantails ! It is only the marriage of opposites
which keeps things going at all !'

Lady Elizabeth laughed too.

That would certainly be a reason,' she answered
pleasantly. ' But I should pity poor Mr.
Harford.'

And pray why, my dear V said her father.
I am sure the little girl is very pretty, and
fairly well mannered. If she had not one or two
coarse points about her she would be really
charming. But the pipkin comes out here and
there ; though not boldly enough to spoil her.'

1 She is a good girl, I am sure,' was his
daughter's reply ; ' but she is rather difficult to

get on with. She is what people call heavy on
hand, and one can get nothing ont of her.'

'Love makes a capital gimlet,' said the earl.
1 You never know what a woman is capable of
till she falls in love, and then you find out.'

Yes,' said his Delight, as they drove up to
the door of their home.

The next day Anthony presented himself with
unholy punctuality at the exact time named by
Lord Kingshouse. He had said * half-past two
or thereabouts.' As the clock chimed the half-hour,
Anthony rode up to the door and rang the
bell with a will, the echoes sounding like the
summons of a master entering on his own. His
feet fell on the stairs with the same strange kind
of lordly power ; and then he was ushered into
the presence of my lady, busy over her embroidery
as usual.

For some little time he was alone with her ;
and, unconsciously to himself, he made good use
of that time, charming the lady as he had already
charmed her husband and daughter. She Alas
delighted with him, as she said afterwards. He
was so fresh, so full of odd anecdotes and

VOL. II. E

strange experiences, so unlike anything we know
at home. And yet he was a gentleman. He
was really most refreshing, and she was quite
glad he had come. She was almost enthusiastic,
this poor, dear stagnant lady, and carried a little
beyond herself, as is the way with certain
elderly women when brought face to face with
a new kind of man. Her life was the dullest of
the three. The earl had his public duties, as
well as his fields and farms and telescope to
occupy him. Lady Elizabeth had many occupations,
as well as youth, to the good of her
account ; while she had but one amusement —
crewel work, of which, however, she never got
tired — no more than the lotus-eaters of their
afternoons. Thus, an interesting stranger was
a real godsend to Lady Kingshousc, and stimulated
her like so much beaded champagne.

She was on quite a friendly footing with him
by the time my lord came in ; and she even
sacrificed herself so far as to climb the stairs
which led into her husband's observatory —
spurred to this unwonted exertion by her unwonted
excitement. And when Anthony showed

that he knew the constellations, as well as the
latest facts and theories of what is called the
new astronomy, my lord was doubly gracious
to a man who could at once tackle a grizzly
single-handed and understand the map of the
heavens.

Then said my lady :

You must come and dine with us, Mr. Harford.
I will write to Mrs. Aspline and ask her and
Miss Aspline to come too. Perhaps she will be
free on Tuesday next if you are V

Thank you, Lady Kingshouse,' said Anthony
in his quiet way. * You are very kind, but I
think I must be going home before then. I have
already outstayed my time.'

Oh, no ; you can stay over Tuesday,' said
Lady Kingshouse with friendly persistency.

And on the earl's seconding his wife, and Lady
Elizabeth smiling her — ' I should think so,' when
lie turned to her and said : ' What do you think,
Lady Elizabeth ! Do you think I may stay V
Anthony consented for his own part, and
undertook to answer for Mrs. and Miss Aspline

E 2

S U BKAty

as if he had been the son of the one and the
husband of the other.

Oh, yes, they'll come,' he said. ' They've
got to.'

So there it was ; and this was how Anthony
Harford was induced to remain at Kingshouse
for these five days longer — induced to remain,
apparently for a trivial pleasure, in reality for
his life's gravest destiny.

It was a pleasure to everyone alike. The
Asplines wanted to keep the guest who stirred
up the dull waters so delightfully ; and they
were moreover greatly gratified by this friendly
and informal invitation from the grandest people
in the place. It was the finest feather as yet
stuck into their social cap ; and they owed it to
Anthony, who thus got good and kudos all
round, both directly and indirectly. He was
not slow in profiting by his opportunities. He
was glad to give the Asplines pleasure. Cooke
was as bright as she could be, and Anne, if of
the genus little cuss, was pretty — which redeemed
a good deal. As for the Kingshouses, they
were purely charming. More than once he said

that Lady Elizabeth was ' just lovely ; just the
loveliest lady he had yet seen in the old country ;'
which superlative sometimes made both Mrs.
Aspline and Anne crisp their lips as if they had
eaten sour lemons without sugar.

The Kingshouse trio were glad that this very
original and amusing person had been induced
to stay yet a few days longer. They were more
frankly interested in and by him than is the
wont of great folk with anything unusual. They
regarded him as almost a new specimen of the
race — he was so entirely out of the ordinary
groove, and so singularly delightful in his
own! So that never was there a more harmonious
accord of feeling — never a greater consensus
of satisfaction than now, when Anthony
Harford, of Thrift, near Thorbergh, had agreed
to stay five days longer at Hindfleet that he
might dine at the Dower House with the Earl
and Countess of Kingshouse.

But before the day they all met more than
once, either by virtue of that chance which
governs the lives of men when chance and fate
are one — or Anthony went boldly to the Dower

House, which he never left without making an
appointment for another meeting. At each
successive interview the friendship that had
sprung up between the great family and the
returned wanderer increased; and Anthony congratulated
himself again and again on his happy
inspiration of coming personally to Hindfleet.
Anne had not wrecked his heart nor set fire to
the tow of his fancy. But the Kingshouse family
were friends he was glad to have made — and
friends whom he intended to keep.

He had a strange feeling of moral elevation
when he was with Lady Elizabeth ; and when
her father called her ' Delight,' he echoed the
word in his own heart, and thought it exactly
fitting. She was a Delight — none more so !
Surely the loveliest lady of his acquaintance !
Each time he saw her he thought her more
supreme ; and each time she fulfilled more and
more perfectly his ideal of woman. And there
was no posing for ideal womanhood with her as
with some ; no consciousness of sweet sainthood;
no assumption of etherealized superiority. She
was as simple as if she had been a peasant

girl, and no more knew that she was like some
dear angel from heaven than the south wind
knows that it brings the sweet breath of flowers.
That was just the beauty of it, Anthony used to
think. She did not know — but he did.

CHAPTER V.

FRESH LINKS — II.

All who know the manner of American men
and women know its curious mixture of familiarity
and respect, and how its flirtations admiration
is without personal liberties of a doubtful kind.
But though the unspoken mot ordre seems to
be 'hands off!' the manner is familiar in tone
and flirtations in spirit. It has also that misleading
air of specialization, of individualism,
which makes it appear as if each woman were
the only She, and the one in present evidence the
queen of the whole sex.

No one had this manner more strongly pronounced
than Anthony Harford. Excepting
that it was alike to all, it was love-making to

each ; but to Lady Elizabeth this manner of
special and peculiar devotion was more marked
than to anyone else. For he did, as we know,
admire her intensely. The stirred fancies of
the time and the social necessities of his position
which had brought him to the marrying mood,
made him infinitely susceptible to the charms of
such a noble creature as this dear Delight. She
was so different from pretty, prim, pin-cushiony
Anne, whose dear little brains were like so much
delicately-tinted wool — very delicate, very
charming in then* own way, but only wool at the
best ! But this splendid specimen of English
blood and breeding, this noble creature who
recalled, the ideal woman of chivalry, was of
another pattern altogether. And Anthony
was never weary of intoning her praises secretly
to himself, nor of showing her openly
how much he admired her. And though he did
not plainly ask himself : ' Shall I V still he let
himself drift down the pleasant current of emotion
and event, with the feeling of one ' seeing
what would come of it.' And he took care tolet
Lady Elizabeth understand his mood, and

trace the course of the current whereon he was
drifting.

Anthony not only delicately nattered and
covertly courted Lady Elizabeth, he also made
her laugh, and brightened her into a state of
active enjoyment, rare indeed for her to know.
His stories of bears and 'coons and snakes, of
Redskins, cow-boys, and horse-thieves, of the
ranches, the prairies, the mountains and the
mining-camps, were that compound of humour
and seriousness which by turns touches all the
feelings. Pity, horror, the appreciation of fun
and the pathos of heroism — all these were
struck by his skilful hand till he had touched
every chord of his fair listener's heart. His
quaint American accent, which he exaggerated
when occasion demanded, gave additional point
to his jokes and a deeper colour to his anecdotes ;
and his strange objurgations, which were so
different from the coarser English oaths, and
therefore carried with them none of their vulgarity,
passed unchecked even by the sweet
lady to whom swearing was specially abhorrent.
He spent long hours at the Dower House,

and he went there at all times in the day ; but
his mornings were chiefly passed in Lady Elizabeth's
special little work-room, where he amused
himself and her by talk — or now lectured her on
her perspective, and now put in an untrained
bass to her well-taught soprano. Sometimes he
read to her; and when he declaimed those
rough Californian stories he made the poems
alive with the suppressed passion or quaint
rolling, the checked tears or the stifled laughter
which he threw into the lines.

It was all new to Lady Elizabeth, and she
enjoyed it as one enjoys a fresh breeze suddenly
blowing across a windless sky. If for many
reasons — chiefly those of outside activities and
inner content — life was not quite so dull to her
as to many others at Kingshouse, it was the
reverse of exciting; and she welcomed this
happy diversion as young people do when they
are unexpectedly taken out of circumstances
wherein they are consciously or unconsciously
bored. It was the happiest week she had ever
known. It was a week that seemed as if it had
been stolen out of the summer, and had nothing

to do with the bleak winter in which it
was set.

Yet it was not all amusement, nor all dramatic
interest. Underneath the pure pleasure
which Anthony Harford so largely brought was
the higher sense of his manly qualities and the
fine political enthusiasms which his own evoked.
Essentially a Liberal, he was not a saddest. He
was too broad for that, and had too much
knowledge of the complexity of human nature.
His great desire was to see the sun of England
without a cloud in the political sky, and to
know that her power was ever more firmly established.
But he was an iconoclast, though
a patriot; and his Liberalism stretched out
into regions where that of the normal * gentleman
Radical ' stops short. Broad as it was, it
gained on the woman where religion made her
democratic in practice for all that her abstract
principles were patrician. For if she accorded so
much to him when he spoke of England's true
mission in the world, and how such and such
virile qualities were needed for politics of the
best kind, could she withstand him when he

laughed at caste in favour of the individual, and
classed dignities and titles with tinsel and
theatrical wardrobes ? When he said to her :
1 You are all just in a coil of worn-out old prejudices
here in England, and do not know that
you are worshipping dead gods. You want
the old notions to be readjusted to meet new
ways' — could she refuse her assent and declare
that things were perfect as they were, and
needed no change at all 1

He brought the sense of a freer and stronger
life than any she had known before ; and she
supposed he understood things as she did not.
Still, it took her some time to digest the new
doctrine. How England's best glory was to
come through the destruction of the House of
Lords, the abolition of primogeniture, the
nationalization of the land, and the voluntary
laying down by their wearers of all stars and
garters and coronets and titles, was a puzzle she
did not attempt to solve. In truth, it looked
more like chaos than a puzzle ; and she said so.
Still, Mr. Harford said this was the only way in
which England could retain — no, not retain ; he

corrected himself, and substituted regain — the
only way in which she could regain her leading
position in the race of nations. If she voluntarily
tied her hands and clogged her feet with
a lot of wretched stuff which the most sensible
part of mankind had thrown away, she must
expect to be passed ; for, in spite of the old saying,
the battle is to the strong and the race to
the swift. And passed she would be to a dead
certainty. The whole of the civilized world
was pretty^rrell up to her by now, he said ; and
Cousin Jonathan had forged ahead. She had
made her start in former times by being the
freest and most lightly held of all. While
Europe still groaned under the fetters of the
feudal system, she had recognized the rights of
free citizenship. But she had clung too long
to the rags and remnants, and she did not fitly
understand tendencies. Now it was time for
her to free herself from those old traditions
which were fettering her, and make herself
able to grow and expand according to the law
of nature.

But the aristocracy — the landed proprietors —

have done so much good! They have looked
after the poor, kept society together, and been
such good examples !' said Lady Elizabeth, in
her high-hearted but yet so sweet and gentle
way.

1 They have made Lady Elizabeth Inchbold/
said Anthony quite gravely. ' That is about
the best thing they have done. For that we

can forgive them a few slips, like But I

will not mention names. They may be friends
of yours.'

You mean that for kindness ; but 1 do not
think we know any reprobates,' she answered
with a smile.

1 Glad of it. Such as you should not. When
a system has culminated — focussed itself into
its best, that best should be clear of evil
contact.'

Anthony spoke with a certain tender feeling
underlying his artificial gravity that gave
infinite charm to his words.

Lady Elizabeth laughed off the compliment
with some embarrassment, and the blood came
into her face.

That is very prettily put — very charming
flattery,' she said, leaning over her work-table ;
but I will take it seriously — I mean generally —
and put myself out of the question. You mean
the system — the peerage — has made a nobler
race of men and women than the mere ordinary
people. Can you say anything better? If our
aristocracy has done this it has done the best it
could for the country.'

I did not say that it has given the world a
nobler race said Anthony, quite quietly. 'I
said it has made you. That is another matter
altogether

You flatter admirably, but you slip by the
question,' said Lady Elizabeth, more and more
embarrassed. ' This is not what we were talking
of.'

It is what I am thinking of, ' said Anthony.


Then between England and America, you
like America bests she asked, with curious inconsequence
and strange discomfort.

His flattery was pleasant to her — was she nota
woman ? — but it had its element of pain too.

She did not quite know how to take it — whether
as true or as a pleasant joke.

■ For some things, yes. At present, I like
best where I am,' said Anthony ; ' in Lady
Elizabeth Inchbold's little room, talking politics
which she does not agree with, and fixing her
palette for her next picture of " Saul and
Samuel.' '

'Unfixing it, you mean,' she said laughing.
You are making it into an awful mess.'

1 Satan's work, not mine. The idle hands, you
know !'

Not a pleasant association,' she returned.

i Oh, the old cuss is not so black as he is
painted,' said Anthony carelessly. ' We have
made far too big a scare of him. " Cloven hoof
graminivorous," as Cuvier said. We have no
need to be so desperately afraid of him !'

1 Oh !' said Lady Elizabeth, a little shocked
and scandalized.

Like many good people who move in the
ordained groove, she considered the subject too
solemn to be joked about. Satan is a biblical
character, she thought, and one doesn't make

VOL. II. F

fun of the Bible. Anthony saw her reasoning
as clearly as if it had been printed in black on
white before him, and threw the conversation
with a sudden jerk on to some lately-discovered
fossils which had explained the mystery of the
pineal gland by the third eye of the archaic
lizard. And Lady Elizabeth forgave his inverted
profanity for the sake of the gentleness
and kindness and consideration and chivalry —
and a hundred other good qualities — which
made him leave the track that pained her for
one which had no sharp rocks nor ledges. But
this was essentially Anthony Harford's way.
He was chivalrous kindness in person to women,
and thought no self-suppression hard which
pleased them ; especially was none hard which
should please Lady Elizabeth Inchbold. On
which they mended that little fracture, and
Lady Elizabeth thought with more clearness
than ever : ' What a charming man he is ; how
unlike the generality of people !' — And Anthony
thought, also, with more clearness than ever :
The loveliest lady in England, bar none ; just
the very loveliest !'

As narrow-minded people are almost always
jealous, and as Mrs. Aspline, good soul, for all
her fine qualities of hospitality and sound sense,
was especially narrow-minded, it was but natural
that she and Anne should be a little ruffled at
this pronounced preference of their guest for
another house than their own. Still, they fore-bore
to make their displeasure too evident ; for
had they not profited by Anthony's sudden intimacy
with the Kingshouses ! And might they
not hope to gather still more of that coveted
social wealth — the ' recognition of the best people
as on terms of equality V And if they did,
it would be to Anthony that they would owe it ;
hence to him that they must be grateful. But
it is so impossible for some tempers to keep
back jibes and hints when oppressed with uncomfortable
thoughts ! During these intervening
days Mrs. Aspline permitted herself to say
more than once : ' Well, Anthony, and how are
things going between you and Lady Elizabeth?'
accompanying her query with a meaning laugh,
which was as the feather to the arrow.

'They are going slick,' said Anthony with

fa

nasal drawl ; ' slick as greased lightning ! T

My clear boy !' cried his hostess with a little
shudder. ' When you put on that horrid Yankee
accent you are really dreadful !'

1 1 think you do it to tease us,' said Anne,
hitting the bull's-eye right in the centre.

Anthony lifted up his eyebrows.

What in thunder do you mean V he asked,
With perfect gravity. 'What dog-conned accent
are you daring at V

6 Oh !' said Anne, covering her ears with her
hands ; ' you are really too dreadful, Mr. Harford
!'

He laughed, and took both her hands in his.
He did not like to see the vexation on her face.

'Why!' he said in a perfectly pure accent;
what a dear little goose you are ! You never
did know fun from earnest, and I suppose you
never will !'

Anne pursed up her nice little mouth and
withdrew her hands. Naturally a prude — by
the fact that her life was passed in dreams, not
realities — material contact of all kinds was
intensely distasteful to her.

And the veriest prude out V said Anthony,
with a flush that made his dark eyes glitter.

You two are always quarrelling !' put in Mrs.
Aspline with a good-natured laugh. 'I don't
know how it is, I'm sure. Anne thinks the
worlds of you, Anthony ; as I do ; but there you
are, cat and dog — cat and dog — and never meet
but you have a scratching match !'

Mother !' remonstrated Anne.

'Well, make Miss Anne more conformable,'
said Anthony. ' At present she is all spikes— at
least to me.'

'I am sorry you do not approve of me,' said
Anne coldly. ' But really I cannot alter myself
even to please you.'

No, I suppose not,' returned Anthony, strolling
out of the room. In a few minutes they
saw him walking at a brisk pace down the
drive.

■ Off to the Dower House, I bet a pound !' said
Mrs. Aspline ; adding viciously : ' well, if he's
not going to marry Lady Elizabeth he ought to
that's all I have to say.'

'Perhaps he could not if he would,' said

Anne, who ' jealousies ' what she did not want
for herself.

6 Could not if he would ! A beggar like Lady
Elizabeth V cried Mrs. Aspline. * Just let him
ask her, that's all. If she did not jump at him,
my name's not Anne, nor yours either !'

I am sure I do not care which way it is,' said
Anne petulantly.

'Nor I,' said Mrs. Aspline, a little venomously.


CHAPTER VI.

SPREADING THE NET.

If Mrs. Aspline's dinner had been successful, so
was that at the Dower House. Larger and more
inclusive, it took in all the former guests and
some half-a-dozen more ; among whom were Mr.
and Mrs. Clanricarde. Estelle would not go.
She had been asked of course, but in her self-elected
state of quasi-widowhood she had preferred
the solitude of home, where she might
think of her distant and ever-adored Charlie,
and can her renunciation as so much sacrifice
to the memory of their interrupted love. And
as Mrs. Clanricarde was only cruel when the
sacra fames ' was gnawing too fiercely at her
vitals, she let her daughter indulge her somewhat

wayward humour, and forego the dinner which
perhaps, the mother reasoned, a girl could not
be expected to enjoy. Had it been a dance she
might have insisted ; but a dinner to a girl who
prefers bread and butter to anything else, and
calls ' a la soubise ' onion sauce — that was of
the nature of pearls cast before swine ; and Mrs.
Clanricarde disapproved of waste.

For herself, she went to the Dower House asa
matter of duty. So she said. It was only
right to cultivate neighbourly feelings, and to
help the Kingshouses when they took the
trouble of entertaining such people as the
Asplines. She put on an air of saintly self-sacrifice
when she said this. She was really
quite touching when she put. on this air. She
did it so well, and she looked so sweet and
tender ! In secret, her social creed was largely
coloured by the doctrine of entertaining
angels unawares ; and she was always glad of a
shake in the social kaleidoscope. One never
knows, she used to say to herself. Fortunes
have been left to people before now on the
mere chance of identity of name— on the mere

chance expression of interest — on a little
service rendered at a truthful moment when the
mustard-seed was ready to start into the forest-tree.
And at all times to jostle against some
shining unit — some gilded fragment — gives
lustre, adds consideration, and may bring profit.
Gold has the habit of rubbing off, and even
fragments are better than nothing. She had
heard — who had not? — of this rich new man
who had suddenly descended as if from the
skies on the Asplines —-like Jove in that shower
of gold which neither ancient nor modern
Danes can resist. As yet she had not seen him.
She was not on visiting terms with the Asplines ;
she wished now that she had been ; — Anthony
had not shown at church as a good citizen and
sound Churchman should have done; and
the weather had been too bad for walking out.
Since they had put down their carriage — oh !
that unlucky George ! — she had been able to go
aboitt so little, and was so dependent on the
weather ! Hence she had been fed only b}^
reports of their new Croesus, and she was not
sorry to see him for herself.

All the same she tried to make herself believe
that she did not give ear to rose-coloured fables,
where the Asplines were ' les betes parlantes.'
She was perfectly sure — at least she said so —
that this much-vaunted phoenix would turn out
to be only a jackdaw dressed in peacocks'
feathers to deceive the unwary. A clever
person, with the gift of idealization, might, with
a few judicious verbal touches, make the most
commonplace creature a type — and as heroic as
typical. Caleb Stagg himself could be painted
up into the passable imitation of a possible
person — had she not herself borne witness to this
power, when it had suited her purpose ? And
if he could be idealized into anything better thana
miner's son, brushed and washed and in his
Sunday clothes, then could this friend of those
Aspline women — this shower of gold framed
like a man, and come as a second Jove from the
sky. As their friend, indeed, he could not be
worth much ; and she did not believe in Lady
Elizabeth's judgment. Lady Elizabeth was a
dear creature — a very dear creature — but she
had her ' manes ' like anyone else ; and every

goose in her flock was a snow-white royal swan.

No ; she, Mrs. Glanricarde, the wife of a
ruined husband and the mother of a beautiful
daughter, would see things with her own eyes
before she allowed her hope to run away with
her, as it had done more than once in her life
before. This time she would be cautious ; and
she would test the ground before trusting herself
to walk on it.

With the secret determination to fascinate
this new-comer, whom yet she spoke of with
not so much judicious reserve as prepared
hostility, Mrs. Glanricarde dressed herself with
more than ordinary care — and she was never
negligent of her appearance. Indeed, she
would have found a prison tolerable with a
pier-glass and superb toilettes. To-night she
made herself really beautiful ; for she was
one of those pretty women who know every
turn and trick of adornment. Had she been
Estelle herself, free-hearted, in the marriage
market and anxious for a settlement, she
could not have been more solicitous to look
well — more particular in her methods. And

the result justified the means. She looked
superb ; and she knew it. She had that indescribable
* chic,' — that look of foreign distinction,
which no daughter of Albion can imitate.
She was like some old picture of Watteau — the
French marquise of tradition translated into
modern life ; and that skilfully applied hare's-foot,
with that one artful little patch, completed
the charm.

'How handsome you look to-night, Louise !'
said that unlucky George, seeking to propitiate
his tart-tempered goddess, as well as sincerely
stirred to unwonted admiration.

He laid his hand on her white, plump arm
with a caressing, half-timid touch.

It is a wonder that I have any looks at all
after your conduct,' was her cold reply, drawing
away her arm as if some creeping thing
had crawled over it.

And her facile, foolish, good-natured husband,
with his restless eyes and fatuous smile, sank
into silence and calculated the gains that would
come from that last investment in a newly-discovered
diamond-mine. She was long past that

state of mind when his compliments could
enliven her, or his caresses give her pleasure.
The utmost limits to which her philosophy could
reach was to bear with him in silence — which
was not in patience.

At dinner Mrs. Clanricarde was seated next
to Anthony Harford ; and on her, as on everyone,
his wonderful manner of mingled naivete,
reserve and dignity made the sharp impression
of a new experience. That odd combination of
the Wild West ' scout ' with the English gentleman
gave him a flavour as of a cultivated wild
fruit. He was as delightful as the Huron,
and Mrs. Clanricarde did what she could to
improve her chance. Though not her assigned
cavalier — this was Mr. Stewart, whom she knew
by heart — she talked to Anthony Harford as
some women do talk at dinner to the wrong
man, to the exclusion of their own partner. And
he, though seated next to Lady Kingshouse,
was not unwilling to divide himself between the
two. The vivacity of this striking-looking
woman, with her dark, bright eyes, and prematurely
white hair dressed a la Pompadour,

amused and interested him. She was brighter
than the general run of Englishwomen, he
thought ; bright enough for a Bostonian, had
her good angel willed her that supremacy ; and
so far as she went she was unique. She was a
decided improvement on that good, fat, genere
Cooke, if not quite up to the Kings-house
mark. They, indeed, were supreme, and
his admiration for them was a veritable enthusiasm.
They were so nobly simple in their
comparative poverty — so truly the old ideal of
English aristocracy. The countess was ' grande
dame ' even over her embroidery ; and Lady
Elizabeth was the very flower of humanity — the
very essence of spiritual beauty. Anne Aspline
had by now fallen into complete insignificance.
She had drifted to the rear in the social
phalanx which was headed by this one delightful
figure — this Aslauga, with her golden tresses
this Iseult, with her slender throat and gentle
smile. He did not know, but he half believed
that he was in love with Lady Elizabeth. He
was not sure, for he felt for her differently from
what he had ever felt for any woman in his life

before; and lie was not quite able to analyze
his own sensations. Nor did be know her
mind. She was sweet and friendly and gracious
as a wingless angel might be. But how about
the woman? He had watched her these last
days as keenly as he had sometimes looked for
the trail of an Indian or for the smoke of a
sheltering cabin. He fancied that her cheeks
had taken a deeper colour when he came upon
her suddenly in the lane — that her eyes looked
both brighter and softer when they met his —
that, when he entered the room this evening,
that inner kind of smile which tells of secret
pleasure had come over her face like so much
sunlight. He fancied all this — he did not know.
The reserve of a modest English girl makes
divination difficult. Anthony was no fop, and
he was afraid to think that these shadowy signs
meant more than so many accidents with which
he had really no vital connection. He was a
little at sea all through, and so was forced tolet
things drift : conscious only that this lovely-minded
girl spoke to his higher nature as no
woman yet had done, and made him feel as if

he must be his best self when in her presence.
But how she regarded him — that was her secret ;
and he could not fathom it ; at least not yet.

Nevertheless, though these thoughts hung
about him with a filmy kind of consciousness,
like a mist-wreath rising from the mountain, he
enjoyed Mrs. Clanricarde's vivacious talk, as she
intended he should; contenting his sense of
fidelity by looking across the table at Lady
Elizabeth, sitting immediately opposite, and including
her in the conversation whenever he
had the chance. And how beautiful she looked
to-night ! Not with the beauty which stirs a
man's senses, or mounts like strong wine to his
brain, but with the beauty that calms while it
inspires — that brings the glory of heaven down
to the earth for sweet sustenance and illumination.
Anthony thought her again and again
the loveliest lady he had ever seen ; and wondered,
with increasing wistfulness, what she
thought of him, and whether she liked him in
truth and very deed — liked him below the surface
and not only just on it.

Thus the dinner passed, and everyone was

amused and thought it the pleasantness ever
given at the Dower House — and wished that
the Kingshouses were richer, and could launch
out into the same kind of entertainments as
those of olden days, which had helped to impoverish
them now — and in the wish scraped
off some of the lustre of their pleasure by regret,
and watered down their wine quite unnecessarily.
But this is after the manner of
men, who will look before and after whatever
it costs them !

When the gentlemen came into the drawing-room,
Anthony went straight to where Lady
Elizabeth and Mrs. Clanricarde were sitting together,
discussing Shakspeare and the musical
glasses with apparent interest and real flatness
Lady Elizabeth thinking of Anthony Harford
with pleasure, Mrs. Clanricarde with unrest. Ashe
joined them, what was dark to Anthony was
clear as daylight to Mrs. Clanricarde, and she
read in a glance what he had not spelt correctly
after long looking.

She is in love with him,' thought Estelle's
mother ; ' and I will conquer.'

VOL. IT. G

Something stirred her as if it had been a
sword drawn from its scabbard. The passion
of the fight, love of intrigue, desire of conquest,
all leaped up in sudden flame in her heart.
Born for this kind of warfare as she was, how
seldom had her talents been utilized here in this
old Sleepy Hollow — this Noah's-ark kind of
society ! But now had come the hour — and
the man ; and Mrs. Clanricarde consecrated herself
to the struggle as fervently as ever a young
squire consecrated himself to the laws of his
new knighthood.

Will you come and see me, Mr. Harford V she
said in her blandest way. ' 1 have a few old
Japanese curios that are very rare. Some of
them indeed are unique, and were brought from
Japan when the manufactures were not spoiled
for the English markets, and before collecting
had become a passion. I shall be glad to show
them to you if you care for such things.
They are fine, are they not, dears to Lady
Elizabeth.

'Beautiful!' answered that guileless Aslauga.
9 Quite worth seeing she added.

Thank you. I will go with pleasure,' said
Anthony.

He had not the faintest notion who Mrs. Clanri-
carde was, nor where she lived, but Delight
would tell him, and perhaps accompany him.
She was a very amusing and vivacious lady —
that was all he knew and all he cared for at the
present moment.

When will you come — tomorrow?' she asked.
How long do you stay at Hindfleet ? Perhaps
in any case, you had better come tomorrow.'

Yes, I will call on you tomorrow,' he answered.
' I am not staying many days longer.
I have out-stayed my time as it is.'

I am sure you will admire my curios,' she
repeated.

I am coming for you, not for your old relics,'
he said bluntly.

And Mrs. Clanricarde's heart gave a throb like
a girl's. If this stranger were so easily charmed
with her, what would he be with Estelle ? And
what a splendid-looking creature he was ! —
really a conqueror among heroes ! How far had
he gone with Lady Elizabeth ? Not very far,

g2

she thought. She was as astute as any human
being could be, not to have more than the
normal senses, and she did not see any indications
of an express understanding between them.
She thought that he was fishing and she was
nibbling ; but, what of that ! Her drag-net
would take the ground, and all else would be of
no avail. So they parted, and it was agreed
that next clay Anthony should go to Les Saules
to call on Mrs. Clanricarde, and see her old
Japanese curios, bought before the manufacture
of porcelain, enamel and lacquer had been ruined
to suit the debased taste of the red-haired,
foreign devils.'

4 Oh !' said Mrs. Aspline, with the briskness of
a sour ferment, when he told her of his engagement
; * that's in the wind, is it?'

What is in what wind V he asked.

Well, you have fallen into the hands of the
Philistines, that's all,' she answered. ' This Mrs.
Clanricarde is the most manoeuvring woman in
Kingshouse. She is like a spider with flies.
You are done for, Anthony, if you do not see
through her.'

He laughed.

I am not afraid of her,' he said lightly.

It would be better if you were,' said Mrs.
Aspline sharply. * Pride goes before a fall,
Anthony, and you are not the first man who has
fallen into a trap.'

1 Don't see the trap," he returned.

And I do,' said Cooke with a certain viciousness
by no means usual to her.

And then she is so proud,' said Anne languidly
; * and what of, I should like to know ?
They are ruined, and everyone expects to hear
of their being sold up — any day. Why should
they be proud V

i Then you, too, don't like them V asked
Anthony,

1 1 1 Like them V she answered quite quietly.
1 1 seldom dislike any one, do I, mother ? But
if there is one person in the world that I hate it
is Mrs. Clanricarde. I wish she was dead !'

Anthony looked at her in amazement.

1 What queer cusses women are,' he thought
to himself.

What was the meaning of all this? What

corn of poor, fat, good-natured Cooke's had
this quasi-Bostonian trodden on? Where had
sleepy, stupid, unpractical little Anne been
pinched ? He remembered how these ladies had
exchanged only the most glacial salutations last
night. Their mutual attitude had been that of
so many clothed and decorated icebergs. What
tempest in a teapot had shaken these atoms into
antagonism, and what was the solution of the
mystery %

All that, however, was their affair. He had
nothing to do with it. As a gentleman he must
keep his promise to this alert French marquise-like
woman ; a promise which, if the Asplines
had given him the map of the country in good
time, he would probably not have made. But
Mrs. Aspline had said nothing. She never did
speak against her neighbours. She was far too
clever, knowing that, for a woman of doubtful
holding in her own person to be cited as a
slanderer, a retailer of unsavoury stories, an
utterer of ill-natured remarks, is to socially saw
the branch on which she is sitting and to come
headlong to the ground. Only when caught outby

the sudden impact of an unpleasant surprise,
did she forget her habitual caution and launch
forth impolitic objurgations — as now to Anthony,
with whom, however, no harm was done. He was
not the man to repeat nor betray; and he would
not tell it even to the reeds that she had said
this special Midas had ass's ears beneath her
crown. But she was vexed and annoyed, more
than she could say, that he had undertaken to
go to Les Saules, fearing she knew not what of
loss to herself and complications all round.

CHAPTER VII.

HIS FATE.

The next day Anthony prepared to go to Les
Saules, as agreed on. Mrs. Aspline had evidently
forgotten the engagement, for she proposed
that her guest should drive with her and Anne
to see the Fairy How, which was one of the
points ' of the place, and which would be so
lovely to-day ! There had been a two days'
sharp frost, and the icicles would be now beautiful
— really something worth seeing.

1 You will come of course V she said, with a
flushed face and a rather quick voice.

Where is your How V asked Anthony. * In
what direction V

< Through Kingshouse and on the Lancaster
road.'

1 Anywhere near Les Sanies V

1 Les Saules !' Mrs. Aspline spoke in a tone of
surprise. ' Oh dear no ! What have we to do
with Les Saules V

Well, I have if you have not,' he returned.
1 I am going to see Mrs. Clanricarde to-day.'

< Oh !' said Mrs. Aspline crispin her lips. ' So
you persist, do you V

Persist in keeping an appointment?' he
laughed. ' Why of course I do.'

Then you'll repent it,' said Mrs. Aspline,
turning coldly away, as one who turns from a son
of perdition finally abandoned to his evil ways.

It was all very inexplicable to Anthony, and
he exhausted conjecture in vain. He finally
came to the conclusion that the lively, half-foreign
looking woman was a runaway wife,
whose little slip society had agreed to condone
in a half-hearted way — strict sisters, like that
virtuous and astute Cooke, holding aloof, no
matter who drew near. He was sorry to offend
his hostess, but an engagement is an engage-merit

; and Anthony was not the man to allow
his actions to be influenced by anyone, man or
woman, and woman no more than man. He
would do what he had undertaken to do, and
make it all right with the Asplines when he
came home. He would thus sit on the two
stools of tradition, and not come to the ground.
He would hold with the hare and hunt with the
hounds, and have the good of both runs. He
would have a pleasant talk with that entertaining
lady, who might almost have been a Bostonian
; and he did not see what harm could come
of it, nor why his old friend should ' ra'r.' He
was not going to make love to her, nor carry
her off * vi et armis ' from her good-looking husband
with the weak chin and fatuous smile ; and
he could not for the life of him see any valid
objection to the arrangement, turn it which way
he would. Meanwhile, he would go round by
the Dower House, and see that dear Delight
whose presence always brought him the sense of
spiritual harmony and mental rest. He had
more faith in her common sense than in that of
his older friend. Perhaps through her he should

come to the heart of the mystery in re the Clan-richard's
and get an insight into causes hidden
from him now.

But Lady Elizabeth could not help him. All
she could give him was the rather bald bit
of information : ' They do not like each other.'

4 But why?' asked Anthony, who knew the
fact and wanted the reason.

I do not know, except that Mrs. Clanricarde
did not call on the Asplines when they came
she answered.

t But why V he asked again.

Mrs. Clanricarde is very proud, and has great
ideas of birth and all that,' said Lady Elizabeth
reluctantly.

She did not like to allude to Mrs. Aspline's
industrial origin to her friend and guest.

4 Because she was once a cook V said Anthony
bluntly, cutting the Gordian knot with one
blow.

Yes, I suppose so,' was the answer.

The Americanized Englishman laughed.

Good God !' he said with that kind of mirth
which has in it more gall than honey. 'As if it

signifies a red cent whether she were a cook or
not if she knows how to behave herself, and
bore a good character before and after ! I
should have thought that Lady — Mrs. Clanri-
carde — had more sense than to stumble into
this hole. Also,' he added, looking at Lady
Elizabeth with eyes as soft as satin, 'I should
have thought that what Lady Elizabeth Inch-bold
patronized might pass muster with all the
world beside in Kingshouse.'

Lady Elizabeth smiled with the pretty faint
embarrassment she so often showed when with
Anthony Harford. Flattery, which from anyone
else was especially displeasing to her, from him
was delightful. Yet she never knew whether
to accept it in silence or to disclaim it as undue.
Had it come from anyone else she would have
shown that she disliked it. From Mr. Harford
it was different. He was not quite an Englishman
now ; and we owe more consideration to
quasi-foreigners than to our very own unadulterated
; and he was more sensitive than most
people, and bore more uneasily with check or
rebuke. Hence she let the compliment slide ;

and Anthony thought how sweet she looked
when she dropped her eyes like that, and the
colour mounted over her blush-rose face just
enough to swear by. How sweet she was altogether
! fie was conscious that he was
steadily drifting — not swiftly — not over rapids
and cataracts with a swirl and a rush — but
slowly and quietly — drifting almost lazily, like
a leaf on a summer stream — to the broad still
haven of assured happiness and confessed love.
But he would do nothing rash. He would be
sure of her mind before he showed his own.
He was not the man to brook a refusal ; and he
had learned caution before making big bets.

But there is nothing against either the one
or the other V he asked again. ' My old friend
Mrs. Aspline, I know, always conducted herself
like a lamb. Has Mrs. Clanricarde as clean a
record V

Quite,' was the answer. ' It is only a
personal feeling. Perhaps, as mothers, they are
mutually jealous of their daughters.'

Daughters ? Has Mrs. Clanricarde a
daughter?'

< Yes ; Estelle. A very pretty girl, and a very
dear one.'

Lady Elizabeth spoke warmly. She dearly
loved Estelle — and she pitied her as much as
she loved — which gave a certain flavour of
tenderness exquisitely charming.

Why did she not come here yesterday V was
Anthony's next query.

She is not very well,' answered Lady Elizabeth.
She did not say, ' She is broken-hearted
because her lover has gone away.'

Oh ! now I see it all,' cried Anthony with
sudden illumination. 'Why, of course. How
dense of me not to have seen it before. Jealousy.
There it is. Well ! you women do beat creation
for that !' he added. ' You are jealous among
yourselves, and that's a fact ! We men are nowhere
compared to you.'

1 think you do pretty well, however, in that
line,' was Lady Elizabeth's laughing reply ; but
Anthony, with emphasis, repeated his asseveration,
and declared that women were the most
jealous beings on earth, and beat all creation
hollow, let what else would make the running.

Then he rose to leave, and holding Lady
Elizabeth's hand just a moment longer than
necessary, he said, looking at her again with his
satiny eyes :

But you are above that trash, I am sure ! I
should as soon expect lightning from a rainbow
as jealousy from Lady Elizabeth !'

1 1 hope I should never be so poor-hearted nor
mean-spirited,' was her answer, made gravely
and with earnestness.

■ The loveliest lady in England !' was Anthony's
unspoken thought, repeated two or
three times, as he went on his way to Les
Saules — 'just the loveliest ! She has a heart as
pure as crystal and a mind as bright as silver.
I wonder if she could ever be brought to love
me? She is worth trying for. With such a

wife as that all my unrest would be over — all

-

my fever would be quieted. I should turn then
to the real country gentleman's life, and be a
model landlord and a just magistrate. She
would help me to be good. She is goodness
herself incarnate. No man could be aught but
his best self when with her ; and her love would

honour the proudest and add lustre to the best.
If she could be brought to really love me?
Docs she in any degree already? Sometimes I
think she docs, and then — I would not like to
bet on it ! She is so sweet and gentle to everyone
— but she does not change colour so often to
any one else as she does with me. I wonder ! —
or am I a darned fool V

And as he thought this last phrase, he turned
into the gate of Les Saules, and soon found
himself in the room where Mrs. Clanricarde was
alone.

She received him graciously ; with just that
amount of cordiality which keeps on the right
side of gush and is as far from niggardliness as
from excess. She said she was glad to see him,
and she did not ask after his hostesses. She
spoke of the pleasant dinner they had had
yesterday evening, and called Lady Elizabeth a
dear soul ; though she greatly lamented her want
of practicality — or rather, her regret was as a
fringe to her admiration ; for she first praised
her for her goodness and then added the deprecating
addenda, as one who should remark on

the rather rumpled condition of a shining
garment, and the slightly tattered state of a
phoenix's tail-feathers. The shining garment
was a fact, and the phoenix was a fact ; and the
rumpled condition of the one, and the tattered
state of the other, did not lessen the essential
value of either. All the same — she lamented.

'In what way is she unpractical ?' asked
Anthony, feeling as if his lance were in rest
and the bugle had sounded.

She is too good,' returned Mrs. Clanricarde
with a soft smile. ' As if anyone can be too
good ! I suppose I ought to say that we are all
too bad for her.' She said this with the nicest
little ah* of apology and self-accusation. She
was really a wonderfully charming woman !

6 To be too good is not a very general fault,'
said Anthony, answering her smile. * For me, I
think Lady Elizabeth just perfect.'

She is indeed delightful,' returned Mrs.
Clanricarde. ' It is a pity she belongs to such
a family.'

■ What of them?' he asked gravely.

1 Do you not know"? — there is madness among

VOL. II. H

them she answered. ' Some of them are now
I believe, in a lunatic asylum. It is that which
makes me regret the dear love's decided eccentricity
as I do. If her family history was not
darkened by this terrible scourge, she might be
as odd as she liked, and one would only love her
all the more, and say it was her way — and, being
hers, beautiful! But now, come and look at
my curios, Mr. Harford. I have really a very
notable collection.'

She had, however, taken the heart out of him
for the moment, and he could think of nothing
but the terrible shadow on the path of his sweet
friend. And for awhile Mrs. Clanricarde thought
she had made a mistake, and done more harm
than good by her false information. She recovered
her lost ground with infinite pains, and
only after a time. Her vivacity was infectious,
and Anthony could not resist the contagion.
He handled her queer little squat figures, and
dislocated monsters with wry necks and shaven
heads — pronounced them interesting and thought
them hideous. He looked at her photographs
of places and pictures, and thought that the

ruins would be better for the builder and the
figures greatly improved if put into better
drawing. He criticized the early Italian artists
and the Byzantine mosaics, like the rank outsider
and Philistine he was ; and he forgot that
asceticism was a cult as dear to its votaries as
any religion ever promulgated. He made Mrs.
Clanricarde think him an Arson and a boor,
intellectually taken ; but he made her resolve
on her plan of campaign with even more and
more determination. She was not sure that she
should succeed, but she would make a bold
stroke for it ; and Lady Elizabeth must be put
out of court.

Then, as Anthony, having exhausted the outside
world as represented here in the drawing-room
at Les Saules, was beginning to take
leave, she stopped him by saying as a kind of
after-thought — a kind of minor and even minimus
attraction — ' Oh, by the way, I must introduce
you to my daughter before you go. She
is upstairs, painting. She is so fond of art ! —
and is really not a despicable artist ; at least,
naturally, I think so.'

h2

1 Oh, yes ! your daughter. I should like to
see Miss Clanricarde,' said Anthony, who had
forgotten her existence.

Mrs. Clanricarde rang the bell and asked the
servant to beg Miss Clanricarde to come down.
She spoke smoothly and gently, as one who
speaks of a creature infinitely beloved — seeming
linger on the name with delicious tenderness.
She was standing near the door, and Anthony
did not hear her rapid whisper to the maid :
Do not say that anyone is here.' He only
heard the indescribable accent of affection —
affection mingled with the loveliest courtesy.

That is the way a mother should speak,' he
thought to himself; and for the sake of this
maternal sweetness he forgave the vivacious
Frenchwoman her unwelcome news about Lady
Elizabeth.

In a few minutes the door-handle turned and
the door opened. Framed as in a picture —
checked by the momentary surprise of finding
a stranger where she expected to see only her
mother — Anthony saw a tall, dark-haired girl,
with soft brown eyes and a pale flower-like

face, dressed in a quaintly-fashioned gown of
clinging material and indeterminate colour —
neither blue nor green, but between both ; — a
girl whose beauty was great but whose charm
was greater — that subtle, nameless charm which
belongs to the fated and fateful women of men's
passion and destruction — the charm which Helen
and Cleopatra and Mary Stuart had to their
sorrow and the sorrow of those who loved
them. Her eyes were worlds in which the soul
was lost. Her smile was a net wherein the
senses were entangled. Her dark and curling
hair was like the perfumed tendrils of a dusky
vine. Her lithe and graceful figure had in it
the sense of melody and rhythmic harmonies in
every line and every gesture. She stood there,
as she might have been, the blessed damsel
against the golden bar of heaven ; and Anthony
caught his breath as at a vision seen in the
twilight. He felt as if the whole meaning of
his life had suddenly been made clear — as if he
had looked into a magic crystal and seen the
hidden secrets of fate and the future. A fire
seemed to run through his veins ; and there

broke out in him that wild fever which gives a
man twice the power he had before. He knew
that he had looked into the face of his Fate,
and seen the angel who was to lead him to his
bliss or his despair. All the loves and fancies
of his past years shrivelled up before this wonderful
revelation as the leaves of a forest when
the simoom passes over them. A swift rush of
thought brought the image of Lady Elizabeth
before him, and it seemed to him as if she were
the moon when the morning sun has risen. She
passed into a kind of vaporous and lovely unsubstantially,
while here he was in the presence
of the true and only one.

In the brief moment while Estelle stood there
and he looked at her, he seemed to live years
and to go through the experience of a lifetime.
Something woke up in him that had been dormant
for all his life, and he came suddenly to
the possession as of another sense — to the full
inheritance of his soul. Then the spell shifted —
it did not break — as Estelle, letting the door
fall from her hand, came slowly into the room and
was formally introduced. And Anthony, who

had adopted the American habit of shaking
hands on an introduction, was afflicted with a
sudden and to himself an incomprehensible shyness,
and felt as if he dared not touch that long
white graceful hand — no more than an ordinary
knight dared have touched the San Graal, had
he seen it.

After this he lost count of time. He could
never remember how long he stayed nor how he
tore himself away. He only knew that he found
himself at last at Hindfleet — in his heart as it
were a bird singing, a fountain playing, a garden
blooming — and the dull winter evening
changed to an infinite glory of great gladness
which yet was akin to tears.

CHAPTER VIII.

AT THE KINGSHOUSE ARMS.

The position was undoubtedly awkward. Anthony
Harford was the guest of Mrs. Aspline,
who hated the Clanricardes, who did not visit
the Asplines. What was to be done? There
is a certain honour to be observed in small
things as in large, and it savours of treachery
and disloyalty to make a friend's house the
point of departure for negotiations with his
enemy.

At first, after he came back from Les Saules,
and while his whole being was full of that new
charm — like music still vibrating in the air —
Anthony had done his best to bring about some
kind of better feeling on the part of that

usually good-natured Cooke — that naturally
gentle, because phlegmatic, Anne. But he found
them obdurate. Their pride had been wounded ;
their social interests had been damaged by the
Frenchwoman's pronounced disdain ; and feelings
are like everything else — the longer they
have lived the tougher and harder they become,
till time does his inevitable work, when
they fall into dust and nothingness under his
hand.

Here, then, was the awkwardness of the
position. Anthony would not leave Kings-house
just yet, and he could not stay at Hind-fleet
if he intended to improve his acquaintance
with the Clanricardes, as he certainly would.
For what else should he remain here at all?
Even Lady Elizabeth, sweet as she was and
delightful as he had found her — just on the
brink, too, as he had been ; just on the brink,
looking for her face in the magic fountain —
even she could not have kept him ; nor could
her people, nor could his present hostess. But
that tall, dark-haired girl, with her fated charm
ah ! that was another matter ! To see her

again and often — to get to know her and to
prove her — to win her to himself, and wear heron
his heart for all his life, as his flower of love
and the jewel of his treasury — yes, for Estelle
he must stay and could not go. And yet he
could not stay at Hindfleet.

Wherefore, making so far a clean breast of it,
he told Mrs. Aspline what was on his mind as
relating to her and ' those people at Lissols/ as
she called them ; and how impossible he felt it
to accept her hospitality while using his time in
visiting a house which had shut itself against
her, and which now she would not visit were
it opened to her.

I am sorry for you, Anthony,' said Mrs. Asp-line,
flushing a violent crimson passing into
purple. ' You are not the first man that manoeuvring
old cat has caught, and you will not
be the last. I thought you had more sense.
You are old enough, I am sure.'

Old enough to know my own mind V said
Anthony gravely. ' I hope so.'

When you say the Clanricardes, you mean
Miss,' continued Mrs. Aspline. ' 1 do not suppose

you care much for that fool of a roan who
is next thing to a natural, or for Mrs. Clanricarde
either, with her pride and her finery. At her
age, dressing as she does to look like a picture !
I have no patience with such vanity ! It's not
decent ; and so I tell you.'

Anthony was silent. It did not come into the
programme of his duty, as he conceived it, to
defend Mrs. Clanricarde's millinery ; but he
thought again, as so often before : ' What queer
cusses women are when they come to loggerheads
among themselves !'

'Take our advice,' said Anne, putting on a
little maternal air that was both becoming and
entertaining ; ' go home to Thrift, and keep out
of danger. You will repent it if you stay here.
We know all about these people better than you
do

'I do not suppose there is much harm to
know of them,' said Anthony, even more gravely
than before.

'Well, I don't know what you call harm,'
said Mrs. Aspline. ' If right and left, and Tom,
Dick, and Harry's no harm, then there is none,.

I suppose. But I know I would have been
sorry enough if any daughter of mine had been
hawked about all over the place, as Mrs. Clanri-
carde has hawked hers !'

Anthony's bronzed face became strangely
livid as well as stern. It seemed to suddenly
set like so much metal, and to become rigid like
death.

I reckon there's not much chance of hawking
any girl about in such a God-forsaken old
place as this,' he said with forced quietness.

6 Then isn't there, just !' returned Mrs. Aspline.
'First, that Mr. Charles Osborne, who has a
cough like a churchyard and not a penny-piece
to bless himself with ; and then that mooncalf
up at Redhill yonder, that Caleb Stagg, that I
declare I would not touch with the end of a
mop-stick. That woman there flung her daughter
at these two, and would have given her ears
for either. The way she went after that young
Stagg was what I call a disgrace. And all the
world knows it, as well as I.'

Anthony drew his lips close together as people
do when they are deeply moved, and yet

wish to keep their self-command. Could he
have ever liked this woman — this vulgar traducer
of that exquisite vision ? Mrs. Aspline
took a new face and form and meaning for him.
She was no longer the kind old Cooke of his
boyish days — still less the improved, hospitable,
almost lady-like woman of this latter time. She
was a vulgar scold ; and his heart sickened
against her.

She saw that she had made a mistake.

1 Well, there ! I was wrong to put myself
about like this,' she said with a forced laugh.
You are old enough to know your own mind,
as you say, Anthony; and you have seen enough
of the world by now to find your own way about.
And I daresay I am prejudiced against this Mrs.
Clanricarde and all her kith and kin. They
have not been over-civil to Anne and me, and
naturally we resent being treated like dirt under
their feet. But it's all right, 1 daresay ; and you
are your own master. So let us say no more
about it, and I'm sorry I spoke

It is as well to know all sides,' said Anthony,
speaking with difficulty. ' They stoned the

saints once on a time, and they keep up the
practice yet

Mrs. Aspline flushed again as before ; Anne bit
her lips ; but both kept silent and chewed the
bitter cud with decorous resignation. It seemed
little less than blasphemy to compare the Clanri-
cardes — Estelle or her mother — to saints; but
Anthony Harford was — well ! he was a Harford
; and the Harford mouth was hard. It
would take a stronger hand than either Anne's
or her mother's to rein in this runaway if he
chose to go to destruction. So they felt, and
on this they acted, and shut down the Pandora's
box of ill words and ill-feeling before reconciliation
had taken flight with the rest. But Anthony's
heart was still sick and sore, and his
spirit revolted against his former flowery
fetters.

I reckon,' he said after a moment's pause, * I
shall be doing the square thing if I clear out of
this and make new tracks. As I am going to
see for myself what these ladies are like, and
calculate to be pretty near half my time at Les
Saules, it will be better for us all if I take rooms

at the hotel, where I shall offend no one and be
in no one's way.'

That, of course, is as yon like yourself,' said
Mrs. Aspline, with the dignity of displeasure.
1 You are not in our way here, Anthony, and I
hope we have not shown that you were. I hope
we have made you comfortable, and let you
see that you were welcome. We have done
our best.'

Here the poor dear woman's voice a little
broke, and her eyes grew red. The rain threatened
after the thunder had growled.

You have been just as kind as ever you
could be,' said Anthony. ' There's nothing to
be said on that, and I'm ever so much grateful
to you. But I reckon it will be squarest to clear
out now, and likest to keep us good friends.'

'Very likely,' said Mrs. Aspline, curiously
lachrymose and indignant at one and the same
time.

Perhaps you are right,' said Anne.

Vexed to see her mother so moved, she took
a tone as hard and cold as an iron rod — as acid
as so much lemon juice. For all her vague

dreams, she had not dreamed herself in love
with Anthony Harford. It was doubtful, indeed,
if she could ever love anyone but the
unsubstantial figures which her fancy projected
on the screen, and which had nothing
to do with life at all. Be that as it may, this
handsome Huron — this mild-mannered, grave
and thoughtful Corsair — remained where he
was ; or rather his shadow had passed into the
darkness of the night, and of the substance she
made no account.

Then that is all fixed and straightened out
said Anthony with a sense of relief.

Certainly,' said Mrs. Aspline ; and ' Certainly,'
echoed Anne.

Which ended the matter and clamped the
proposition into its final affirmative. So that
night saw Anthony Harford installed at thei
Kingshouse Arms,' where he intended to remain
for at least some weeks.

He could not go back to Thrift. How cold
and gloomy and desolate the old place looked
in his memory ! His imagination peopled it
with chill shapes of distressful meaning, and it

was to him now as if he had lived iu a tomb
while there. He would not go back till the
winter had passed and the spring had come with
its verdure and its flowers — till the running of
the sap in the trees stirred nature to renewed
life, as the hopes and thoughts of men were
stirred to passion by the red blood within their
veins. It wanted sunshine to make it habitable
ah ! more sunshine and of a different kind from
that which flowed from summer skies to lie like
a radiant veil over the earth ! He knew well
what it wanted. There was no uncertainty
here — no tentative questions were put to his heart
and consciousness. His heart and consciousness
overwhelmed his judgment. He only
knew what he felt, what he hoped, what
he had set himself to do ; and he asked
nothing more than — Let me have time and a
clear field. He was well as he was. This rat-haunted,
ill-found little inn, smelling of old
woollen and dry-rot, was as sweet as a pathway
in Paradise, and this ' god-forsaken old hole ' of
Kingshouse was as fair as an oasis bearing palm
trees and white lilies.

vol. ii. :

Everyone was glad to hear that Anthony
Harford had moved into the town. It was an
earnest of his continued stay ; and it made intercourse
with him so much the freer now that he
was not tied to the Asplines, for whom no one
specially cared, and with whom no one wished
to knit up an intimacy. It was somewhat a
surprise, however ; for no one knew why he
stayed— and at such a very second-rate kind of
place as the ' Kingshouse Arms !' To be sure
the Asplines knew, but they kept their own counsel
; and Mrs. Clanricarde guessed, but she, too,
kept hers.

A curious little warmth spread over Lady
Elizabeth's heart when she heard the news ; and
her fair face took the colour of her feelings.
No one noted that swift and sudden flush ; and
to herself it bore no significance. She did just
quietly wonder why her cheeks so suddenly
seemed to burn, as if the fire had scorched them
or the hidden sun had touched them. But that
was all. It was one of those small personal
matters which make no mark on the memory,
because so little on the consciousness. Only it

was certain that she was glad he was going to
stay, and she said so. Why not ?

As for Anthony, had he been there he would
no longer have noticed whether the fair cheeks
flushed or paled — whether the soft eyes brightened
or were abashed. These signs were signs to
him, no more. The saint had gone back to her
shrine, and her womanhood had vanished in
the smoke of the scented incense. The ideal
had clothed itself once more with the glory of
the unattainable and the impersonal. Aslauga's
golden tresses were the rays of the eternal sun,
and no longer the living hair of love. The
human fancy which had for a moment disturbed
that saintly purity and brought it nearer to the
earth — which had touched that tender aud
almost solemn loveliness and brought it within
the compass of a man's desire — that fancy had
died before it had been fairly born ; and to
Anthony, as to Caleb, Lady Elizabeth was the
being to worship, but Estelle was the woman to
love. For, by that strange law of reduplication
which so often rules our life, the same circumstance
was repeated with different actors ; and

l2

the proud, strong, handsome Anthony Harford
this man of will, passion and adventure —
followed exactly the same line and trod in the
very footsteps of that ungainly Caleb Stagg, his
timid and discomfited predecessor. It remained
now to be seen whether the issue would be the
same or different.

4 What can Harford be staying for at such a
place as Kingshouse?' said my lord when he
heard the news — like a man unable to see through
a millstone.

For society. I daresay his own place is dull,'
said my lady — like a woman, having a reason
always ready.

I should not think the " Kingshouse Arms : ' a
very lively look-out,' he returned.

1 But he has us, and that compensates.'

1 And he seems so much interested in astronomy,'
said Lady Elizabeth with unconscious
diplomacy.

« So he does,' said her father ; ' and now that
we have the frost again we will ask him to
dinner, and we can make a night of it up aloft.'

You will freeze yourself to death some night

up aloft,' said the countess, just a point of
querulousness — of quasi grumbling — mingled
with what else was care and consideration.

Oh, we have wraps and mufflers, as you know,'
was her husband's reply, not so grateful for the
care as desirous to stave off the grumbling.

Both he and Lady Elizabeth were in riding-costume.
A ride with her father was one of her
greatest pleasures, though her mother always
expected to see her brought home on a shutter,
living, as the poor lady did, in a chronic state of
apprehension where she was afraid of everything.


We will ride round by the town, and leave a
message at the " Arms," ' continued the earl.
I do not suppose he is engaged anywhere else.'

I should think not,' said Lady Elizabeth, who
was anxious he should be asked.

Why, to whom should he be engaged V asked
her mother in surprise. ' Society is not so
numerous here as to ask him every day to
dinner.'

'He might be to the Asplines,' said her
daughter.

Or the Clanrioardes,' Raid the earl. ' He
seemed monstrously taken with Mrs. Clanricarde
the other night ; and upon my soul she looked
uncommonly handsome ! I never saw her look
better. She might have been one of her own
ancestors at the Court of the Grand Monarque.'

She is a very striking-looking woman certainly,'
said Lady Kingshouse, who herself had
her own ' cachet ' — and knew that she had.
But I don't think Mr. Harford so desperately
eris " as all that.'

She did not say what ' all that ' meant, and no
one asked.

Ah, well, there's no saying ! And there are
the horses,' said Lord Kingshouse looking at the
clock ; 'just three minutes behind time. I shall
speak to Master Higgins and ask what he means
by it. He must not grow unpunctual, else he will
have to find a new master. Come, Delight, let
us be off.'

And with a nice little : ' Good-bye, old dear,'
to his wife, the two left the room — and after a
solemn : < Behind time, Higgins,' to the coachman,
were soon cantering briskly along the hard

metallic road on their way to the town and the
Kingshouse Arms.'

How beautiful the day was ! Lady Elizabeth
thought she had never seen such a perfect
winter's day. The sky was as blue as the blue
speedwells of spring, and the hoar-frost shone
in the sun like so much pencilled fretwork
wrought by the Sweet Spirit who gives the
beetle its shining coat of green enamel and the
butterfly its softer plumes. No moving life over
the frozen fields or through the still air gave
the sense of change. It was, so far, a dead
world, crystallized into immortal loveliness — ina
way unreal, and yet so beautiful — a world
wherein the most fantastic images seemed
natural and akin.

For the moment Lady Elizabeth forgot that
other life in which she habitually dwelt — that
life of suffering which she soothed, of sorrow
which she shared. Breaking through that large
envelope of sympathy by which her days were
somewhat saddened, the high spirits natural to
her age rippled up like an iridescent fountain ;
and she forgot that famine and misery and tears

and wrong-doing stained the page of human
history, and that the Messiahs must be crucified
if they wish to redeem. Sweet she always was
thoughtful, unselfish, compassionate, sympathetic,
but playful rarely — hilarious never. Now
she laughed in that plenitude of girlish happiness
which sees a cause for joy and a source of
mirth in the most insignificant thing that passes.
She talked and laughed, and was as radiant as
those sun-lighted clouds which caught the gleam
on their white fleeces, so that they dazzled the
eyes which looked at them.

The carl scarcely knew his dear Delight in
her new mood. It was as if the moon had suddenly
blazed into the noonday sun — as if the
dove had changed its tremulous call for the glad
song of the lark— as if the waxen lily had blushed
into the damask rose. It was all the brisk and
frosty air, he thought, smiling with pleasure to-see
his darling so gay. There was nothing in
the world so good for young people as plenty
of open-air exercise — horse-exercise above all.
He was so glad that he had assented to her proposal
to ride together. He did not always

assent when she asked. He would for the
future, oftener.

Sitting square in her saddle, as if part and
parcel of her horse — her cheeks flushed with
the rapid ride and the frosty air — her eyes as
bright as the sun, and as soft as they were
bright — her air and manner full of the veritable
splendour of youth, health, and good spirits —
she rode through the little town whereof her
father was the suzerain ; and everyone who saw
her said : ' How fair Lady Elizabeth looks today
!' Some added : ' My word ! but she is a
gay brave lass !' and some : ' Pity she doesn't
get a husband while her beauty lasts !' But all
agreed that, such as she was, she was as fine a
young lady as ever stepped in shoe-leather, and
he would have to go far who would better her.

They had time to take notes and make their
boorish remarks, not boorishly intended, while
she and her father stood at the door of the
quaint old-fashioned little inn — that ' Rats'
Castle,' as one irate visitor from London called
it — and waited for Anthony's appearance. He
was indoors, the servant said, but just going*

out. A horse was at the door. Sure enough,
in a short time he came out, booted and spurred,
ready for riding, and looking even handsomer
than usual. There was a light in his face, a
lustre in his deep-set searching eyes, a very
dignity" in his bearing beyond his ordinary self,
though he had always those manly graces in
abundance. He was what he himself would
have said * more alive ' even than was his wont.
And he was never only half vitalized, as so
many are. What gave him this extra power —
this additional vitality? Something spoke in
his eyes when he looked at Lady Elizabeth.
Was it something spoken to her personally ? or
was it that some thought animated him which
went out to her as to all others ? Was she the
object or the subject ? As happiness and youth
and high spirits and some nameless chord of
harmony laughed in every glance and sang in
every word with her, so, with him, a man's
secret passion and concentrated thought shone
in his face and echoed in his voice. The two
met on a different plane from the one whereon
they had met before ; and to her it seemed as if

they stood nearer together. But to him they
-were immeasurably farther off. And yet he
said to himself : ' I wish she was my sister.'

The three rode off together through the town,
and the gossips perked up their heads and
wagged them in sage deliberation. Perhaps
the lady had not so far to go for her husband,
after all ; and they made a fine pair — that did
they.

The ride was one of the most charming Lady
Elizabeth had ever had. Really she had not
given sufficient credit to the beauty of their
country, beautiful as she had always thought it!
To-day it was a kind of fairyland, and she half
dreaded lest it should dissolve away like a
vision wrought by a dream of the night. She
seemed scarcely to know herself or the prosaic
conditions of existence as they were. It was
enchantment — all the enchantment of the frost
and the fairies !

Then, all things ending in their turn, this
delightful ride, too, came to an end. And there
was no coda. Anthony was engaged to dinner
both to-day and tomorrow and the next day,

and the earl did not stretch out so far as the
fourth. He did not say to whom, and naturally
they did not ask. But when they parted at the
fork — one road leading to the town and the
other to the Dower House — the sun seemed to
have suddenly set for Lady Elizabeth and the
blue to have dropped out of the sky. The song
of the lark in her heart was hushed ; the rose
had faded back into the moonlight colour of the
lily ; and the fantastic loveliness of the frosted
tracery over the leaves and twigs and grass and
hedges were as crystal tears, bringing to her
mind the sorrows of the poor and what this hard
weather meant for them. She became pale and
silent, and the iridescent fountain sank once
more beneath the surface of tender sadness
through which it had broken.

'Why, Delight, you are quite pale and silent.
Are you tired V asked the earl, as he noticed the
sudden drooping and the sudden pallor.

I think I am a little, dear was her gentle
reply.

i And yet we have not ridden so very far,' he
said.

4 No ; but we have ridden fast,' she returned.

And that comes to the same thing V

Yes,' she said, with more meaning than she
knew.

To which he flung back a cheery kind of
caress in his * Poor poppet !' — half lost in his
horse's ringing hoofs as they cantered on to the
gates of home.

CHAPTER IX.

RECONNOITRING.

Mrs. Clanricarde was essentially clever. She
understood differences and profited by mistakes.
Her insight was as discriminating as her touch
was delicate, and she neither confounded substances
nor confused experiences. To Anthony
Harford she adopted a new set of tactics altogether
from those which she had used with Caleb
Stagg. Kind, frank, hospitable, friendly, she
was careful not to let the faintest shadow of a
second intention appear. In her steady ignoring
of her marriageable daughter, she ran just
the semblance of a risk on her own account ;
and Anthony need not have been exceptionally
vain to have believed that she was, as Lady

Kingshouse said, * emprise ' with him herself, so
wholly did she absorb his conversation and,
apparently, his attention. She sedulously kept
Estelle in the background. She did not speak
of her at all, and to her but rarely. She asked
nothing of her that should show off her accomplishments
; and it was Anthony himself who
found out that she could sing sweetly and play
divinely, and that her sketches were far beyond
the amateur average.

Was this the woman Who had, as Mrs. Aspline
said, flung her daughter at the head of Tom,
Dick and Harry ?

Anthony's heart rose and sickened as he
thought of this calumny, which he tried to
banish from his mind and could not. He was
too jealous by nature to bear patiently the
thought that some one else had filled those sweet
eyes with the longing tenderness of love — that
any other man had coveted what he desired
and meant to make his own — that this pearl of
price, this precious treasure of delight, had been
mutely offered to any man alive and had been
rejected. No, he would not believe this. And

all the more would lie not, seeing how little the
mother now put her forward ; and yet he,
Anthony Harford, was a better match in all
ways, as a man and a fortune, than either a consumptive
artist or an enriched miner !

Always apparently occupied with Mrs. Laurie
Anthony used to place himself where he
could see Estellc — where he could w r watch her
face, her hands, her hair, and how she moved,
and see her as she was, perfectly natural and
unembarrassed. Glad to be left alone, she did
not see that she was being watched ; and this
new man — mother's latest craze and favourite
gave her no kind of distress. She played
chess with her father, or watched him pondering
over his elaborate ' patience,' with the
grace and ease of perfect tranquillity ; and Mrs.
Clanricarde, who saw the whole game far more
clearly than that unlucky George of hers saw
how to work his two packs into sequence, let
things be as they were, and seemed as blind as
she was clear-sighted.

Anthony, too, made no mistakes, and did not
spoil his chances by precipitation. He showed

none of that hunger for an answering love
which repels far oftener than it incites. He
damped down the fire that burnt in his veins,
and did not let it show, even in his eyes. He
watched Estelle, but not to her own consciousness;
and what the mother saw she did not
proclaim. Sometimes he brought her into the
conversation by a sudden question, as he
brought her father — and in exactly the same
manner. Then, when she smiled as she looked
up and answered him, she swept the very heart
out of him, so that sometimes this strong man,
who could face a grizzly in his lair and a dozen
Indians on the war-path without turning a hair,
quivered from head to foot, and was forced to
keep silent for a moment lest his altered voice
should betray him. He restrained himself, however,
as with a hand of iron ; and she, like some
timid antelope coming down to the fountain to
drink, came on and on to her doom, utterly unconscious
of what was awaiting her at the end.
To him this time of watching, of preparation,
though painful in a way, had its luxury too. It
was like planting a rare rose-tree with thought-vol.
II. K

ful care and deliberation. Not now, but soon,
will it bear its allotted bloom. It is too early
to expect it yet. All in its own time. And,
meanwhile, the greater care bestowed now —
the greater deliberation and forbearance — the
more splendid the result and the grander the
reward. Also, like all men sincerely in love, in
spite of his masterful temperament and resolute
will, Anthony was afraid. So long as he did
not speak, and she had not answered, he was the
potential master of his fate and the possessor of
the prize. When once he had put the power out
of his hands into hers — what would be the
result % He would not think of failure ; and
yet the idea forced itself on his consciousness
rather than on his clear thought. She might
reject his love like a flower withered before it
had been worn. And then what should he do ?
He could not compel what she did not grant :
and the light of his life would be over. But he
would not think of this. He was not accustomed
to failure, and the resolute will which
had carried him safely over many a bad pass
in his life's way so far would stand him instead

now, in this — the most important and the
least assured — the most disastrous if he failed,
but the most glorious if he succeeded. As he
would — as he knew that he would — the lover's
craven terrors notwithstanding.

Speaking one evening of his relations with
the Asplines, and how it was that he had come
here on that business of the trusteeship, which
he had taken over after his father's death — he
chanced to mention Thorbergh as the name of
the town, the district, where his place was —
4 Thrift, by Thorbergh,' as the postal direction
ran.

Mrs. Clanricarde looked up at the name.

Thorbergh, in Loamshire V she asked with
keen interest.

Yes,' he answered. * Do you know it V

4 George,' said Mrs. Clanricarde, forgetting to

answer her guest ; ' what do you think ! Mr.

Harford's place is near Thorbergh !'

Never !' said George with his fatuous smile.
What an extraordinary coincidence !'

1 Where ? In what V asked Anthony, suddenly
grave.

k2

Like a flash there came into his face that
watching, Red-Indian look of a man scenting
danger — suspicions, wary, awake and on
his guard. Nothing could have shown the
inner nature of the man more openly than
this look, merely because there was some
connection between his present friends and his
old home.

1 Oh,' laughed Mrs. Clanricarde ; * there is no
great mystery in it after all. Only at Thor-burgh
lives a certain Mrs. Latimer — the widow
of a cousin of my husband's, on whose death
we shall receive a small accession of income.
That is all. She must be a very old woman by
now — past eighty, George, is she not ? — but she
lives on as those annuitants always do ; and I
daresay she has a good ten years before her yet.*

She laughed again. She did her best to laugh
easily and naturally, but the tone was sharp
and the effort painful and apparent.

'Where does she lives asked Anthony.
Latimer — I seem to know that name.'

At No. 3, Highstile Lane,' said George, with
the fatness of unpleasant perfectness.

■ Ob, that's it !' returned Anthony. * Highstile
Lane belongs to me, and she is one of my
tenants

How very singular !' said Mrs. Clanricarde
again ; and this time her animation — her pleased
air, was not forced. It was a link. And when
one is in want of a chain, any link is better than
none.

1 I will go and look after her for you,' said
Anthony, who also was glad of that link, slender
as it was. ' Shall I call on her when I go back
to Thrift and report on her condition V

6 Yes, do,' said Mrs. Clanricarde.

'It will be a satisfaction,' chimed in her
husband.

It certainly will,' said Anthony, looking at
Estelle. ' It will keep me in your memory,' he
added with the humility of love.

1 We should scarcely need this to keep you
there,' returned Mrs. Clanricarde kindly. ' Weare
not a very inconstant set here at Les Saules
not " volage " in any way. In fact, we are too
humdrum altogether for the present day. But
I so much dislike the modern fast fashion ! I

prefer to be humdrum rather than of the period

You could not be better than you are,' said
Anthony, still looking at Estelle. 'I reckon
those are nighest being right who are likest
you ; and the farther they are off your pattern
the less they are to be admired.'

'Do they teach flattery in America?' asked
Estelle's mother smiling.

'No, but they teach a man to speak as he
thinks,' said Estelle's admirer, also smiling. ' Say,
Miss Clanricarde, is that the right thing to do V

1 What V asked Estelle, waking from a kind
of dream.

She was watching her father's game, on the
ordering and success of which she had secretly
staked some portion of her hope. The king of
hearts stood with her for Charlie, while she was
the queen of spades; and how the two suits
came, and by what difficulties and conditions
these two special cards were surrounded, was
an earnest of the future, as it had been countless
times before. For is there any inanity, any
folly devisable by man to which lovers will not
give themselves, and in which they will not

place serious faith when fate looks sour and
happiness is so far off as to be invisible, perhaps
for ever unattainable *? Just then the fortunes
of the game and the fate of these two painted
symbols interested Estelle far more than her
mothers new friend, who indeed did not interest
her at all.

Is it right to speak as we think V Anthony-asked
again.

'Surely!' said Estelle. Then, with a rapid
glance at her mother, she qualified her bolder
assertion with a more cautious: 'At least I
suppose so — sometimes.'

Like all timid people, she was afraid of a
sudden question. She did not know what
snares might not be woven out of the most
innocent-looking material. She had been so
often entrapped in this manner by her mother
that she was perhaps justified now in her fear,
and her hatred of the * Socratic method ' was
not unnatural.

4 1 wonder if we do — any of us?' said Mrs.
Clanricarde, with her philosophizing air, very
charming and very false.

As much as we can, I reckon said Anthony ;
but his philosophy smacked of the backwoods,
not the drawing-room. ' It would be rather hot
if we said all we thought at all times. We'd
raise Cain, and that's a fact !'

Discretion is sometimes the better part of
valour,' said that foolish George, a little wide
of the immediate point, as he always was.

'And we have good-breeding to consider,'
put in Mrs. Clanricarde, still mildly philosophical.

'And the policy of waiting,' said Anthony
with a sudden gleam in his eyes that made the
watching mother's heart leap for joy at the
meaning of its light.

Yes, waiting,' she said quietly. 4 " All comes
to him who knows how to wait." That is a
French proverb, and a true one.'

All V asked Anthony with emphasis.

1 All,' she repeated, also with emphasis.

Estelle looked at her mother. Her look was
as swift and its meaning was as subtle as on the
day when she and that mother went together
to the wood and she had glanced to see if the
road was clear. And Anthony caught that

swift flash to-night as her mother had caught it
then. It stirred him with again a sudden movement
of jealousy and suspicion. There was
more in it than he understood, and it implied a
something shared between mother and daughter
which filled him with angry apprehension.

Then you think, too, that all comes to him
who knows how to wait V he asked, speaking to
Estelle with a strange little touch of sternness
in his voice.

1 1 do not know. It is to be hoped it does,'
she replied, not raising her eyes. ' Now, dear
she added suddenly to her father ; * you have
spoiled the game. You cannot do it if you put
the king of clubs there over the queen of spades.'

I will try. I think I can work it,' said that
foolish George, who at ' patience,' as with his
investments, could never see an inch before him,
and who always thought that he could work the
most impossible combinations.

1 The game is lost !' said Estelle with a sigh.

The king of hearts was hemmed in so as to
be useless, and the queen of spades could not
be moved because of the king of clubs, which

blocked her in. And that fierce, square-shouldered
Bluebeard of the pack suddenly looked to
Estelle like Anthony Harford.

Shall I try to straighten it out V asked
Anthony, coming to the table.

You cannot,' said Estelle, rising and leaving
it.

Do you play this game V asked Mr. Clanri-
carde, still fingering the cards and trying to
remove the irremovable block.

Oh, I play pretty nigh every game in the
pack,' said Anthony ; * but these one-handed
concerns are beyond me. And I do not think I
should care for them.'

1 They are very interesting when you know
them,' said Mr. Clanricarde.

I prefer an antagonist,' said Anthony.

You have an antagonist,' returned the other.

Fortune and your own want of skill and foresight.'


Anthony laughed.

My own want of skill and foresight !' he said.

I don't own up to that ! I'll play with my
skill and foresight against fortune or any other

odds you like. But, want of skill ! I reckon
that's not in the schedule !'

Take care, pride goes before a fall,' said that
foolish George, in exactly the same words as
Mrs. Aspline had used.

Anthony tossed up his head like a horse
unduly checked.

1 I'll follow my pride and risk the fall,' he said,
with a certain outburst of temper that made
Mrs. Clanricarde say to herself: 'That man
wants careful handling. He will stand no nonsense;'
and Estelle to think suddenly, not of
dear, sweet, darling Charlie, strange to say, but
of that patient, good, unselfish, and ungainly
omadhaun who held her as a queen.

Soon after this Anthony took his leave and
went back to the ' Kingshouse Anne ' as if possessed
by seven devils — he did not clearly
know why.

CHAPTER X.

I AM GLAD.'

Let those who can explain this seeming contradiction.
The longer Anthony Harford remained
at Kingshouse, and the stronger grew his
passion for Estelle, the farther off he seemed
from its expression. She had the strangest
power of chilling him, so that he could not
speak to her tenderly, nor even look at her with
that unmistakable meaning which love flings
like so much golden light into a man's eyes.
An invisible but insurmountable barrier seemed
to rise up between them when they were together,
but he could not say where it began nor
what was its name. Something mysterious,
impenetrable — an atmosphere like that of a

spell — surrounded her and froze him into silence.
Then he would rage at himself and her,
when he had left her — swear that tomorrow
this cursed game should end, when he would
make her see his mind, and in seeing his would
bend her own — that he would offer his love and
compel her to accept it and give him hers in
return. And when tomorrow came the whole
thing was renewed. The spell was cast over
him as before, and he burnt with that internal
fever which expresses itself in the glacial and
shivering outside. For another day he was
silently repelled and sensibly controlled; and
for yet another day Estelle was free.

This fierce turmoil in Anthony's heart began
to show itself in his looks. The bronzed face,
so dark and clear-skinned, was becoming furrowed
and livid ; the steadfast eyes were now
more fierce than steadfast, and their quiet
watching had passed into acute suspicion ; the
strength, which had once been the main expression
of the face, was translating itself into a
kind of tormented and suppressed ferocity ; and
he looked like a man overwrought and for the

moment overbalanced. He looked indeed ashe
felt, possessed by demons ; and he was as he
looked. He would have given worlds for one
hour of the rude, rough life of the far west,
when he could have made a quarrel which
would have ended in bowie-knives and revolvers.
He longed to horsewhip Mr. Medlicott for that
little offence which still rankled ; and each
man felt that the new-comer was decidedly
dangerous and to be gently entreated if a row
was to be avoided. It was a new reading of
his character — a new side turned to the world of
Kingshouse; and all saw the change, though
none understood the cause.

The only house to which Anthony often went
always excepting Les Saules — was the Dower
House. He divided his time pretty equally between
these two places, gathering poison at the
one and its antidote at the other. The only
real comfort he knew was when he was with
Lady Elizabeth and her people. The Asplines
exasperated him past bearing, and the rest
of the world half maddened him. They were
all as unreal as so many gibbering ghosts, and

he could not endure their inanities in the terrible
contest going on within him. But Lady Elizabeth
was the David to his Saul ; and she, who
knew nothing — though she sometimes half discerned,
as in a dream, and then sank deeper
into sleep and knew no more — she was glad to
see the evident tranquillity that came over him
after he had been with her for a short time. He
came to the Dower House, haggard and moody
and burning with that internal fever — that suppressed
ferocity — which made him verily like a
soul in pain. And after he had sat with her
for half-an-hour, talking of things which perhaps
touched him more nearly than she knew,
and which, because they touched him, stirred
her also more deeply than he knew — he grew
quiet and calm, and was evidently mentally
soothed and spiritually restored. She could
not refuse to see that his regained tranquillity
was due to her own moral influence, which
flowed over him like so much balm over a
wound, and exorcised the demons within as by
the blessed sprinkling of holy water. She had
never taken such joy in that gift of spiritual

healing which she knew she possessed as she
did now, when Anthony Harford came to her
in bitter pain and left her in contented calm.

'If I could love her !' he often thought. ' She
would have been the fit wife for me, if that
other had not bewitched me. If I could love
her ! But it is too late now. The die is cast.
I will hold Estelle in my arms as my wife, or I
will kill her first and then myself!'

Meanwhile Estelle held fast by her faith in
Charlie ; and, without one overt look or word
that her mother could take hold of, spread that
spell over Anthony which froze him into silence
and reduced him to that state which was like
to a geyser under a glacier. She knew that if
things should come to an open declaration they
could not be so easily managed as with poor
Caleb. She had different material to work with
here, and material that was stronger than herself.
She scarcely knew what she proposed to
herself. She only felt that each day passed
without that dreaded summons to surrender, was
a gain, and that hope of some indeterminate
and unnamed kind always coloured the dawning

of tomorrow. She did not know that she
should escape. She hoped so, and she meant to
try her best ; but she did not know.

Just at this juncture Charlie Osborne suddenly
ceased to write to her. She heard nothing
of him and knew nothing. His last letter had
been from Yokohama, when he said to her that
he had looked up at the stars and thought of
her — more beautiful than any in the sky. After
this came down that dull blank curtain of
silence which in itself is a kind of death.

At first Estelle suspected her mother of the
time-honoured trick of intercepting her letters.
But though Mrs. Clanricarde was quite capable
of this or any other ruse which diplomacy consecrates
to the use of wire-pullers, in this special
instance she was guiltless. So Estelle found ;
for she herself met the postman and opened the
bag before she brought it into the room ; and
not a letter from Charlie, and not a line of news
brought her either comfort or despair. Soon the
mystery was solved. A letter come from Lawrence
Smythe Smith which told the whole sad
story. Charlie Osborne was sick unto death at

VOL. II. L

Yokohama, and the yacht had to come home and
leave him there in hospital. But the letter
added he was in good hands, and would be well
looked after ; and his friends at Kingshouse were
not to feel alarmed. He himself had desired
this letter to be written to Mrs. Clanricarde, who
was adjured to break the news gently to Estelle,
and to be good to his darling — always his one
adored and faithfully beloved !

Here, then, was a loophole, for which Mrs.
Clanricarde was sorrowfully grateful. Of course
she was sorry. You cannot hear of the dangerous
illness of a handsome young creature you
have known all his life, and not be moved in
that part of your nature which goes by the name
of bowels of compassion. But also she was
grateful for the possible, and it would seem more
than probable chance, that the great obstacle to
Estelle's success in life would soon be removed
when her future would be clear and her heart
once more a 'tabula rasa,' save for an insignificant
little scar of no account. She would be very
good to her, very tender, very sympathetic.
And so she was. She told her the sad news

with really admirable softness of manner and
undeclared, but implied, sympathy. And she
did not fall foul of the headache which kept the
poor girl invisible in the afternoon when Anthony
Harford called, and sent her to bed before her
usual time to make that headache decidedly
worse by weeping. So much consideration did
this careful mother give to natural feeling, and
so warily was she walking — warned by her
former mistake.

Unable to see Estelle, Anthony rode off to the
Dower House for Lady Elizabeth, and was comforted
to find that she was at home. In his
irritated and secretly furibond state, he half
suspected the headache to mean disinclination
to see him ; and for the first time seemed to hear
a false ring in Mrs. Clanricarde's shrill French
voice. But suspicion does no good when proofs
are wanting, and Anthony had to be satisfied
with what was given him and to ride away as if
content. Then he came to the Dower House to
lay himself, as it were, in the hands and on the
knees of this sweetest daughter of the gods, this
modern maiden representative of Hestia, the All

l2

Mother. How deeply he revered her — how
tenderly he admired her !

You are scarce like a woman to me,' he said
to her to-day. ' You are more like one of those
beautiful pagan goddesses run into the mould of
an English young lady !'

She laughed a little shyly and coloured with
embarrassment and pleasure combined.

The old goddesses were rather vague and
vapoury creatures,' she said, speaking in the air
as people do who have to say something when
their breast is throbbing, and their brain confused
in consequence.

I know some like to them,' said Anthony,
thinking of Estelle ; * as vague, as vapoury, as
unattainable.'

Short of crying for the moon what is unattainable?'
she asked, thinking neither of
Estelle nor of herself. The one was out of the
field altogether. The other — she had not put
the question to herself, but deep down in the
hidden wells of her inner consciousness, she knew
that this other was not unattainable. She
answered him with a question then, that had no

direct personal reference ; yet it brought the
colour still more to her face, and when she had
said it she wished she had not spoken.

1 Should be to a man — nothing,' said Anthony.
*In active life there would be nothing, if
he were strong and knew his alphabet. But
when you come to woman — and how she is to
be approached and how she is to be won — the
scene changes ; and what he has learned in the
camp doesn't quite serve him in the drawing-room.'


1 It depends on the woman,' said Lady
Elizabeth.

Do you believe in magic V he asked abruptly.

No,' she answered. ■ Surely not ! Do you V

6 1 don't quite know,' he answered. ■ A
month or so ago I would have shouted * No '
with the loudest ; but now — I scarce know what
to think.'

There was a pause. Then Lady Elizabeth
said in rather a low voice :

1 'I don't quite know to what you are alluding
so I cannot really answer you. I cannot touch
your point

Oh, it's of no consequence he answered
with a strange commingling of carelessness and
desperation. * But I feel as if a spell had been
cast over me somehow. To try and not succeed
— to be dumb when you wish to speak — to
be unable to show even what is in your heart
and mind — to feel baffled and prevented and
off the trail altogether — what is that, Lady Elizabeth
1 Seems to me like magic, somehow, to
a man like myself, who never shirked a danger
and never funked it when it came

But are you in that state V she asked, raising
her eyes in wonder.

Conscious of the broad sympathies between
them she could not take this to herself. It was
a state touching some one else — something that
she did not know.

1 Yes,' he said a little sullenly.

Again there was silence, so dead that it
seemed as if the very air was frozen and could
not be moved.

I should not think you could be baffled in
anything, if you once fully determined to succeed,'
she then said, speaking with the effort of

one lifting a heavy weight — breaking through
a strong enclosure.

His face brightened.

You think not he said.

No,' she answered.

And you advise me to persevere — to overcome
the spell — to be master of myself and of
fate?'

She turned as pale as the linen strip about
her throat. She was conscious that she was
looking into unknown depths and standing on
the brink of an unfathomed pool.

'Yes,' she said. * Persevere.'

He got up and took her hands in both of
his.

1 will remember your advice,' he said, pressing
them hard, while his eyes looked down into
her face with unutterable tenderness — unspeakable
gladness. * If I come to my happiness it
will be through you and by you.'

How he loved and reverenced this fair and
saintly counsellor at this moment ! How deeply
he loved her ! She felt his tenderness, his love,
as it might have been the sudden effulgence

of the sun, and all her heart went out to him, asa
flower that opened to the light.

4 Now you know my secret,' he said ; • and
now you can judge what 1 feel — and feel for me.
And you will know what I owe to you when
the time comes.'

He drew her hands up to his breast and
kissed them with the most loving, the most
reverent tenderness. But for her habit of self-control
she would have flung herself into his
arms to have offered him of her own free will
more than he had claimed But she remembered
in good time that he had not said the one
decisive, irrevocable word, and she refrained.

If I win her he said again, ' it will be thanks
to you who have heartened me. EstehVs almost
sister now, you will be my true sister then,
and our happiness will be yours. God bless
you, best and dearest of friends. You do not
know what you have done for me !'

For a moment the earth reeled under Lady
Elizabeth's feet, and she knew nothing of time
or space, or life itself, save the one sharp consciousness
of pain. Then, with a supreme effort

the effort of a martyr at the stake who prays
and does not cry — she said, in a strange and
level voice :

I am glad.'

And Anthony believed her.

CHAPTER XL

MR. LATIMER S WIDOW.

One of Mrs. Clanricarde's many troubles, poor
uneasy soul ! was the obstinate existence of that
Mrs. Latimer, now domiciled at Thorbergh in
one of Anthony Harford's houses, spoken of ina
former chapter. She was an old woman who
had what Caroline Fox called the * ugly trick of
living.' She had already outlived the allotted
span by full ten years, and by all accounts she
was good for double that extra allowance. She
neither tumbled downstairs nor set fire to her
cap ; neither fell into the grate nor got bronchitis
unawares — according to the general
rule with old people, whom death desires to
take and life does not care to keep ; and the

clergyman, who vouched for her being still in
the body when quarter-day came round and
her income was due, made no marginal remarks
comforting to those hungry watchers who
were waiting for her well-worn shoes. For the
death of this persistent old lady would enrich
the much-tried household of Les Saules by just
eight hundred a-year. And really, when one is
in such direful straits as were the Clanricardes at
this moment, eight hundred a-year, less income-tax,
is equal to a thousand to those round whose
door no black-muzzled wolf is prowling, and
within whose golden reservoir no drought
makes itself felt. And the money would be
safe when it should come ; for which wise provision
on the part of Andrew Latimer Mrs.
Clanricarde was well inclined to forgive him all
the rest. It was strictly tied up against the
possibility of any disastrous handling by that
unlucky George, who else would be sure to let
it all slip through his fingers as if each five-pound
note were a live eel from the brook.
Had he the power of handling it he would as
surely make ducks-and-drakes of it as he had

already made those fearful wild fowl of bis own,
under the idea that he was multiplying it by
just so many ricochets as he got out of each
sovereign. When it should come, therefore, it
would be sure. But the question was : When
would it come ?

Mrs. Latimer was the widow of a cousin of
Mr. Clanricarde's who had died about ten years
ago ; leaving only his relict to enjoy for her
lifetime, but no children to divide his modest
fortune after her death. George Clanricarde
had always been a favourite of his, since the
days when the one had been a man grown, and
the other was only a neat, affectionate, cocky
little lad at school. And the friendship had
continued after the neat little boy had become
the dapper young man, as weak as water and
as obstinate as weak people generally are, but
always affectionate and well-meaning — ruining
himself and all he loved with the best and
kindest intentions in the world. When, however,
Cousin Latimer, then quite an elderly man,
chose to marry a certain Miss Stone, of whom
no one had ever heard — of whose birth, parentage,

education, and antecedents nothing whatever
was known — then, mainly owing to the
intervention of Mrs. Clarincarde, who resented
this introduction of a stranger with possible
infants to follow, as a wrong done to poor
George's expectations, there had been but little
intercourse between the former friends and chums.
The Latimer had lived in London, the Clanri-
cardes at Kingshouse ; and the interests of
peace were best preserved by keeping personally
apart, and satisfying the diminished sentiment
by letters. And not even when it was
known that Mrs. Latimer was even older than her
husband — a quinquagenarian when he married,
and a septuagenarian when he died — and that
George had been left chief inheritor after her
death, not even then was Mrs. Clanricarde
appeased to the point of reconciliation with
that woman.' Hence, neither she nor her
husband had ever seen her, nor knew of what
manner of person she was.

There was one slight link between the houses,
but it was a very slight one. It was simply
this. A Kingshouse woman, one Mary Crosby,

who had been Charlie Osborne's nurse and who
had lived with the vicar's family till Mr. Osborne
died, was now Mrs. Latimer's servant. She had
first nursed Mr. Latimer on his death-bed, and
had then continued in her place as his widow's
attendant. After the old gentleman's death,
her own mother, also a widow, had removed to
London from Kingshouse to be near her daughter.
And with this ended the Crosby relations
with their old home. No one ever heard of
them again, save that Mrs. Crosby was dead,
and that Mary still went on taking care of the
old lady. And she took care of her so faithfully
that Mrs. Latimer lived in perfect health and
well-being, and showed no sign as yet of an
accommodating departure. So that Mrs. Clanri-
carde was well-nigh a- weary with her continual
query, to which came never a response : ' When
will that dreadful old woman die V Mrs. Crosby,
a hale, hearty woman, fifteen years her junior,
had slipped quietly off to the shades below ; but
this terrible impediment — this apparently immortal
annuitant— still clung to her chair at
life's crowded table, and ate the bread which by

now should have satisfied, not to say disagreed
with her — and which should have been handed
on to the inheritors standing so close to her
coveted seat.

There was no help for it. Whenever George
wrote to the trustees he received for answer a
copy of the certificate sent by the clergyman,
who vouched for having seen and talked to Mrs.
Mary Latimer on such and such a date, when
he had found her in apparent good health and
perfect sanity of mind. Unless, then, Mrs.
Clanricarde was prepared to go and strangle
the old obstructive with her own hands, she had
to put up with the ' ugly trick,' and to wait with
such patience as she could command until the
slow pace of time should bring to her that inheritance
so greatly coveted.

Meanwhile, about ten or eleven years ago —
just after Mrs. Crosby died — the old lady left
London and took a house on the outskirts of
the village of Thorbergh — that village where
Thrift was one of the gentleman's houses which
enabled the scanty trade to live. One of
Anthony Harford's tenants, she was also one of

his most satisfactory — paying her rent with
praiseworthy punctuality — never asking for a
set-off on account of repairs — never asking for
something to be done to the drains, for a new
kitchen range, nor for another kind of cistern —
seeming to desire nothing so much as peace and
the absence of all causes for contention.

She was a very quiet old lady, and she lived
the life of a recluse. She never went out, and by
reason of her infirmities she could not manage
to go to church. But the clergyman went to
see her, in his ministerial capacity, regularly
once a month ; when she and her servant listened
to his prayers with great devoutness, and were
evidently all the better spiritually for his
ministrations. Save this clergyman of the
parish, this Mr. Trotter who vouched for her
continued existence, Mrs. Latimer saw no one
living mostly in the back parlour which gave
on to the little garden, and denied to the neighbours
when they called. She was faithfully
and assiduously served by a tall, well-dressed,
well-looking, but very resolute woman of about
forty or thereabouts ; who evidently had her

interests at heart as much as if they had been
her own. She did all the marketing; paid the
bills; spoke to few, made friends with none;
and was as stiff and stand-off as a grenadier.
When she was out it was in vain to rap or ring
at No. 3, Highstile Lane. The old lady was
surely as deaf as a post or as lame as a log, for
she neither answered through the keyhole nor
opened on the chain, and the place was like a
tomb till the servant came back. About twice
a year the two concocted a letter to Charles
Osborne, Esq., which seemed to give them great
satisfaction to write. It gave Master Charlie
just as great to receive. It was always an unsigned
letter, and it always contained banknotes.
It was the anonymous contribution to his
meagre income alluded to before ; and it was
sent by Mary Crosby, his former nurse, and now
the devoted attendant of Mrs. Latimer, George
Clanricarde's cousin by marriage.

The old lady lived very simply. For a lady,
as she was, or ought to be, she lived meagrely
and dressed poorly, though she was always
noticeably clean and tidy. Of that eight

VOL. II. M

hundred a-year she certainly did not spend over
two, all told. But she made no response to the
clergyman's leading questions as to her mode of
life, and why she had arranged her expenditure
on such a much lower scale than might have
been expected, and expressed herself thoroughly
satisfied with all its conditions.

She kept only this one servant, Mary, and she
wanted none other, she said. She could not be
better done by if she had a dozen ; and she did
not care to keep a pack of idle hussies eating
their heads off and doing nought but gad after
the lads. She was best with just their two
selves, now that her master — that is, her husband
had died. Men were fashions, and had to be
provided for, but she had always liked a quiet
life. At her age, indeed, she was only fit to
bide by the chimney corner thinking of her
latter end and praising God for all His mercies.
Though she enjoyed good health, the Lord be
praised, she was not a young woman now —
eighty-one last birthday. And, however hale
and stout she might be for her years, eighty-one
is eighty-one, when all's said and done,

and one cannot make it a day less by wishing.

And when she said this she invariably coughed,
that old woman's decided ' boast,' that ' churchyard
cough,' which seemed to come up from her
list slippers, and which would have reassured
Mrs. Clanricarde had she heard it through the
partition — as Mary did.

She spoke with a strong provincial accent —
stronger than might have been expected in a
gentleman's widow. But that was not so extraordinary
after all. The marriage had been a
mesalliance — as Mr. Trotter had heard from the
Olanricardes ; and the aged so often revert to
the first conditions of their life, and double back
on the long-left ground of childhood, forgetting
the lessons learned in the middle distance.
So that perhaps there was nothing very remarkable
in this clean and tidy old lady's broad
Northern accent, for all that she was the widow
of a gentleman and in receipt of a pleasant
little income of eight hundred a year. What
was more remarkable was her wonderful freshness
and vitality. At eighty-one years of age,
she did not look over sixty-five at the outside,

M 2

and hale at that. To be sure her hair was of
that strangely snowy white which one sees so
often in American women of about forty, or even
younger — hair as absolutely free from colour
of any kind as those white lilacs which are
grown in the dark, of which the petals are like
so much snow. Her hands, however, were
plump, and with none of the starting veins nor
cord-like sinews of old age ; and her arms and
shoulders were still firm of flesh and strong in
the muscles. Her black, sharp, twinkling eyes
betrayed a vitality simply marvellous at her age.
They were un dimmed by any of those white
spots or by that fatal ' arcus senilis ' inherent
to old age. They were eyes which could take
in a joke and laugh back a jesting reply — eyes
to which even a likely lad might find something
to say, and not throw away his time — they
were eyes which, coupled with the firm and
solid flesh, were really remarkable in so old a
lady ; and Ninon de Fences herself could not
have had brighter. On the whole, she was a
wonderful specimen of her sex, and to all
appearance there was no reason why she should

not live to the magic age of a hundred, or
even beyond, and see the hungry watchers
lapped up ' in the churchyard before her. As
it was, she made them suffer the pains of Tantalus
in Hades. Nor was she herself quite free
from apprehension. There was something that
did not quite suit her in her life, as she had it :
and yet — what could it be !

'I'm always glad, Mary, when quarter-day
has come and gone,' said the old lady one day
to her servant, after the usual formalities had
been gone through — when Mr. Trotter had come
to duly examine and report on the continued
existence of Mrs. Mary Latimer, relict of Andrew
Latimer, gentleman, late of Harley Street,
London, and now of No. 3, Highstile Lane,
Thorbergh, and had found her of sound mind
and body, and the fit and proper recipient of
that orchestral two hundred pounds.

Hoot !' said Mary. ' There's no occasion.
Everything is just as it should be, and nobody's
a penny the wiser.'

8 It's a queer feeling,' said Mrs. Latimer. ' I
sometimes misdoubt myself.'

1 Misdoubt yourself of what V queried Mary
sharply. ' That you are Mrs. Latimer?'

w My word, lass, but you are a staunch 'un V
said the old lady with a little laugh.

There's not much good in being slack,' returned
the younger woman. ' What we've
undertaken to do that we have to stick to, and
we have Scripture warrant for not looking back
when we've put our hand to the plough.'

Yes,' said Mrs. Latimer a little drily. « But
maybe our plough is one the Scriptures wouldn't
much hold with.'

k And why not V asked Mary. ' Not to do the-good
you do? What would become of that
blessed Master Charlie but from the help he
gets from his friend unbeknown — Mrs. Latimer,
of Thorbergh ? And, I ask, why shouldn't Ave,
as had to bear the heat and burden of the day,
have our reward when we have worked so hard
for it r

Ay, we have worked hard,' said Mrs. Latimer.
4 And it was a shame that the master never so-much
as left a five-pound note after you had
done all that you did do for him.'

I have taken my change out of him for it,'
said Mary with quiet grimness. ' Folk should
think twice before they do unjustly and made
enemies in this world. One never knows
when one's sin may not find one out and the
one as we've trampled on rise up in judgment
against us.'

6 No,' said Mrs. Latimer ; but she spoke with
a cough and a little uneasily ; and Mary, saying :
You'll be wanting your tea, Mrs. Latimer,'
bustled out of the room, bringing the conversation
to a close.

It'll all come to light some day,' said the old
lady, resuming her eternal knitting. ' It was a
rash thing to do ; but the temptation was great,
and Mary, she's that strong-headed there's no
going counter to her. But she's over bold
and confident, is Mary, and doesn't seem to
think or fear. I'd like to know the end of it
for my part, and what the sentence would be.
I fancy it would be pretty heavy. But Mary
says there's no chance, and I don't see any
great fear myself. Still, it's sure to come out,
if not one day then another, and I'd get out of

it afore if 1 had the chance. But I don't very
well see how that can be. I'm glad we have
that tidy lot saved and put away there in the
bed-tick. No banks for me, not if I know it,
with their managers and directors and trash,
who go off with the brass and leave the dupes
to starve. A good bit of stout cloth, well
sewed with waxed thread and hid among the
feathers — that's my style ; and it's the best, I
reckon, out of the lot ! And while it's there
we cau just make ourselves scarce if things
look like Queer-street, and our room would be
better than our company. But it's a venturesome
thing to do, and I oft wonder at myself.
And really, if it were not for Master Charles, I
think I'd be fit to give up any day of the year.
But that bonny bairn holds me to it, little as he
knows what's being done for him or who's
a-doing it. Lord love him ! The last time I
saw him and he gave me that kiss, he took the
heart out of me ; and I said to myself then :
Ye bonny little lad, if ever I can do you a
good turn I will," and I've stuck to my word
even on to this, and will to the end, that will I !'

Here Mary brought in the tea, aud Mrs.
Latimer's musings came to an end.

This, then, was the annuitant whom Anthony
Harford had promised Mrs. Clanricarde he would
see to report on her condition, which the impecunious
wife of that unlucky George — the ill-starred
mother of that perverse Estelle — hoped
would be as full of evil circumstances as were
compatible with life and prophetic of speedy
death. But he would not go to see her yet,
being still under the spell at Kingshouse — waiting
to see how things would turn — whether he
should have to live down that fever or finally
be enabled to slake it at the sometimes too
satisfying, too refrigerating fount of matrimony
that sometimes grave of love, into which,
however, love must needs descend. If Mrs.
Latimer and Mary had known that at this present
moment their landlord was at Kingshouse,
dining with the residuary legatee, George
Clanricarde — watching, studying Estelle, whom
Charlie Osborne loved and who loved Charlie —
while giving his soul as a habitation for seven
devils to possess because he saw just the nameless

and formless shadow of that love cast athwart
his own path — if they had known of all those
links now being forged between them and their
past — them and their future — even stout-hearted
Mary would have quailed, and the vivacious
black eyes of the old lady would have become dim
with fear. But nothing being known, nothing
was foreseen. Anthony remained at Kingshouse ;
Mrs. Latimer drew her quarterly allowance ;
Charlie Osborne, who had studied the stars from
the streets of Yokohama, now tossed in fever in
the hospital ; Estelle wrote to him long letters
of constant love and gentle trust ; and Mrs.
Clanricarde, taught by experience, walked
warily and made no mistake.

CHAPTER XII.

THE GRAND COUP.

At Yokohama, of fever, Charles, the only son
of the Rev. James Osborne, late vicar of Kings-house.'
This was the announcement in the
Times which Mrs. Clanricarcle read first — Mr.
Clanricarde having taken the whole inside,
telegrams, leading articles and the money
market, leaving to his wife the advertisements
and the ' dead and alive.' This was almost the
only privilege of his sex which that unlucky
George dared to claim. For all the rest his
wife came first, and her will ruled where his
yielded.

Mrs. Clanricarde read the announcement
without the quivering of a muscle or the turning

of a hair. She read it, indeed, as if she had
expected it, and looked over the top of the page
at her daughter, speculating on her reception of
the thunder-bolt which neither surprised nor
shocked herself. Estelle was eating her luncheon,
ignorant of and not foreseeing the blow
that was about to fall. No presentiment warned
her now, nor had any foreshadowed her
coming sorrow. The Psychical Society could
have made nothing of her. She had had no
dream of Charlie — pale, tearful, looking at her
with eyes full of a mournful farewell. No vision
had passed before her, halting for a moment to
fill her heart with the pain and terror of love.
No voice calling her name in the dear accents
so well known had sounded in her ear. No dog
had howled in warning. No owl had hooted
ghastly presage. Full of sorrow and pity for
this illness which had struck down her beloved,
she had also the buoyant belief of youth, and
felt sure that he would recover. For to love,
life is immortality, and the beloved cannot die.

At this moment she was not thinking of anything
very definitely. She was only dumbly

conscious, as always now, of Anthony Harford
and her ever-increasing difficulties howard.
She knew that the net was drawing daily
tighter and closer around her ; and that the
repelling, almost mesmeric power, she had over
him would one day be broken through to her
dread and danger. She was conscious that
she would have at last to hear what she had
so long restrained. Yet she meant to make
a good fight of it, and to appeal to his generosity
as she had already appealed to Caleb Stagg's.
But she was more than doubtful of the result.
The masterful will and hard-mouthed resoluteness
of Anthony made a man of a very different
mould from Caleb Stagg in his lowly humility
and tender self-abnegation. Anthony would
marry the woman he fancied, however reluctant
she might be ; supremely confident that he could
distance every other rival, and wipe out every
other thought or affection, when once he had
her as his own and could woo her as he would.
He was a man who owned no superior, and
whose master had yet to be born. What he set
his hand to do, that would he eventually

accomplish — the most formidable obstacles
counting no more than so many straws in his
way. And a woman's love ranked with the
rest. Whatever moments of depression and
doubt he might have, the central thread remained
unbroken — the woman he loved he would have,
and the woman he had should love him.

All this Estelle felt rather than formularies.
Still, she meant to make a good fight of it. And
perhaps she would, after all, succeed. How
could a man marry a girl whose love was
another's, and who said frankly she could never
love him and would always hate him, if even
he took her by force ? He could not ! To
Estelle the very idea was sacrilege ; and Anthony
Harford, though self-willed, was not sacrilegious.
Yet even if he were, and even if he should
insist on this crime, there was always one door
left open — she could rim away. She had
money, got in a mysterious manner, and really
Charlie's, not hers. That did not much matter.
The tie between them was so intimate — their
lives were so thoroughly fused together — that no
shame attached to her using his money for her

own preservation from an unholy marriage.
Bank-notes, crisp and clean, sent, he never knew
nor could discover by whom, came two or three
times a year to him. They were addressed to
the Post Office, Kingshouse, and their receipt was
given in the Times under the initials ' C. 0.'
When Charlie went to London the letters were
forwarded to him in due course from the office.
When he went abroad, he empowered Estelle
to receive them and to keep the money as a
future provision for themselves. She had done
so ; and she had sent the acknowledgments to
the paper as she had been instructed. And now
she had close on two hundred pounds, which
would help her to the maintenance of her integrity
if pushed to the last resource. It would
be a desperate step to take ; and she trembled
when she thought of it, as she often did, realizing
the shame and scandal and disgrace of her flight,
and the blow it would be to her mother. But
if needs must she would. She would do anything
rather than many Anthony Harford — with
Charlie at Yokohama, looking across the seas,
trusting in her constancy, and waiting for

renewed health to embark and claim her. She
would feel herself guilty of a shameful crime
were she to marry another while her own truelove
and promised husband lived. Not all the
vows said before the altar — not all the blessings
pronounced by the priest — nor the iron links
forged by the law and demanded by society,
could make her feel other than an adulteress
were she to yield herself to insistance — whether
her mothers or Anthony Harford's. She was
Charlie's and none other's ; and during his life no
other man should own her.

If she was thinking at all, she was thinking all
this, but she was feeling rather than thinking,
and quietly eating her somewhat slender
luncheon : — as we all must eat, poor slaves of
matter as we are, let what will betide !

Still holding the paper in her hand, Mrs.
Clanricarde called Estelle to come with her into
the drawing-room. She had put on a mask of
sorrow, and the girl saw that something was
amiss. Her mind swept rapidly round the
narrow circle of distant friends, but the very
immensity of her fear excluded the worst for

Charlie. Love deals so gently with suspicion in
all its forms ! When a friend hints at a fault,
you do not suppose a crime ; when a child falls
ill, the mother does not foresee death. Were it
otherwise, love would be a burden too great to
be borne, and the heart would be crushed like
Tarpeia beneath its golden weight.

My dear, I have bad news for you,' began
Mrs. Clanricarde, with great tenderness and
sympathy of voice and manner.

What is it, mother V asked Estelle, her
soft eyes opened wide and dark as the sunless
night.

You must be brave, my dear she returned.
1 It will be a heavy blow to you. Poor Charlie !

'What is it, mother?' asked Estelle again,
with preternatural calmness. She seemed as if
struck to stone, pale and rigid as a statue.

'Ah, poor boy ! I am so grieved for him and
for you, my dear said Mrs. Clanricarde, softly.

She pressed her handkerchief to her eyes.

Mother, what is it V repeated Estelle with
the strange sternness of great and sudden fear.

She laid her hand on her mother's arm and

VOL. II. N

unconsciously gripped it till she nearly caused
her to shriek for pam.

He is gone, dear V said Mrs. Clanricarde ;
'gone home to heaven, where he will never
suffer more !'

It is not true,' said Estelle. * He could not
have died without coming to tell us. He could
not!'

Her mother gave her the paper.

'Here is the announcement,' she said. 'I
know no more than you.'

Estelle looked at it. Her large eyes were
opened wide, her lips were parched, her brain
was all confused and as if on fire. The letters
seemed to form themselves into individual and
living creatures, which had each its own physiognomy
; and then they were like the clanging
of bells sounding in her ears : — ' At Yokohama,
of fever, Charles, the only son of the Rev.
James Osborne, late vicar of Kingshouse.' It
was a kind of dirge or chant which seemed to
fill all space with sound, flowing out from that
point where the letters turned to living creatures
on the paper — showing to her eyes what

the bells sounded to her ears. There was nota
tear, not a sob, not a sigh — only this dry,
wide-eyed statuesque horror of attention, like
one looking into the grave of the beloved.

Her mother spoke to her ; she did not hear.
She put her arm round the stiffened shoulders ;
she did not feel.

1 Estelle ! Estelle P she said ; ' speak to me,
dear. Estelle, ma cherie, speak !'

The girl looked at her mother at first as if
she did not know her ; then she shuddered and
pushed that mother from her with a movement
of irrepressible horror.

1 Let me go !' she said hoarsely. ' I must be
alone. Let me go, mother. I cannot bear it !'

'Kiss me before you go,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, who was really frightened.

Kiss you V said Estelle. ' No ; you are his
murderess ! 1 will never kiss you again V

For the moment she was in truth and in deed
absolutely mad.

'Good God! have I gone too far?' thought
Mrs. Clanricarde. ' Is her brain really turned f '

With a strange gesture and a face that had

n2

only her features but none of her natural expression,
the girl turned from the room and
went upstairs to her own, where she double-locked
the door and shut herself in with her
sorrow and despair. All that day she remained
invisible ; would not open the door, nor come
downstairs ; would not eat ; would scarcely
answer when they knocked — sitting there in a
kind of trance wherein her soul went down into
the grave. Her mother's prayers went for nothing
; she returned only short monosyllables in
reply — monosyllables which would have been
fierce had they not been so dry and dead. To
her father her tone was somewhat softer. He
was free from blood-guiltiness, and had not
helped in the murder of her beloved. His voice
did not irritate her nerves nor penetrate into
her wound, nor did it sound as if rejoicing over
the death of him who was as Bahadur, the Sun-god,
or as Adonis was to Venus. She could
endure his voice; but her mother's was like
poison in her veins and madness to her whole
being. At last Mrs. Clanricarde, whose compassion
was at all times but a rather shallow

stream, tired of this dumb strife and mute rebellion,
peremptorily commanded her to open
the door and see her and speak to her. And
Estelle, overcome by the force of habit, did as
she was told, and let her mother enter.

Mrs. Clanricarde gave a little cry when she
saw her daughter. From two o'clock until now,
ten, she had changed almost as if she had been
transformed. All the tender, supple, timid
grace had gone out of her face and figure.
There was no shyness in her eyes, no love upon
her lips, no line of yielding, of sympathy,
of girlish love, of womanly softness left in
her. She looked like a modern Medusa,
turned to stone for her own part, and capable
of turning to stone all those who looked on her.
No tears were in her eyes, and none had been.
Her parted lips were as dry and as pathetic as
the Cenci's, but they were less loving. She
was as one dead while living ; or, if she
showed anything at all, it was just so much
of the passion of resentment as made hera
woman and not a curious bit of vitalized
mechanism.

1 My dear child ! my Estelle !' cried Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
sincerely shocked and stirred.

1 What do yon want with me, mother V asked
Estelle, coldly.

Why have yon kept away from me V returned
the mother. ' Am I not always here to
receive your sorrow and feel with you in your
grief?'

Hush !' said Estelle lifting her hand. ' Nota
word of that! Your sympathy!' she added
with deadly scorn. It had in it the essence of a
curse.

Mrs. Clanricarde was morally brave to the
point next before insensibility, but even she
quivered in all her being at the tone and look
with which her daughter repudiated her maternal
caress. It was like a bill of divorcement
between them.

I forgive you, Estelle,' she said, trying to
speak quietly. ' Your mind is upset, and you
are not yourself. You do not know what you
say, my poor child, and it is the mother's part
to have mercy and to forgive.'

Estelle stood unmoved. All filial feeling

seemed to have died in her — to be submerged
in the fiery deluge of her grief for her beloved.
Mrs. Clanricarde took her hand, but her daughter
shook off her mother's as if it had been some
noxious thing that pained her.

Don't touch me, mother!' she said harshly.
Leave me to myself. Why have you come to
torment me V

1 Now, Estelle, this nonsense must cease,' said
Mrs. Clanricarde, suddenly severe in her turn.
1 If poor Charlie Osborne has died of fever, is
that my fault 1 Why should you turn against
me and behave yourself like a maniac as you
are doing ? It is absurd, and undutiful as welland
I will not allow it ! So I tell you.'

A strange and ominous glare came into those
beautiful brown eyes, usually so soft and tender.

'Mother, if you do not leave me at once I
shall go mad !' she cried in a hoarse voice that
had not a trace of her natural silver, her
rightful melody, upon its roughened notes.
1 Leave me to myself — that is the only way in
which I can live. You send me mad to see and
hear you.'

And you are a wicked, undutiful girl ; but I
forgive you, and I am always your mother
ready to receive and comfort, you,' said Mrs.
Clanricarde, part revolted, part frightened by
this outburst, as she turned and left the room,
halting at the door to say : ' At least promise
me one thing, Estelle — do not lock your door.'

If you will promise not to open it,' said Estelle,
in the same rough and unnatural tones,
making a step forward. On which her mother
left her, and the girl went back into the fiery
hell of her despair.

'I wish I had never seen you!' cried Mrs.
Clanricarde with true French peevishness to
that unlucky George. ' Everything connected
with you turns ill. Here is now mademoiselle,
your daughter, a stark staring lunatic, because
that absurd young man has died at Yokohama.
From such a father what else can be expected !'

That unlucky George smiled fatuously. Then
his eyes filled up with tears. He loved Estelle
with more intrinsic tenderness — more simplicity
of affection — than did her mother, and he felt
for her in her present trial with a faithfulness of

sympathy which that mother could not compass
nor even understand.

Poor Estelle V he said. 'It is a hard trial
for her.'

God sends us all trials,' said Mrs. Clanri-
carde, with the tart religiously of the cross-tempered.
' Estelle has to submit, as we all must.
I have to endure you,' she added, a little below
her breath.

But her husband did not hear. He was great
at not hearing, as at times he was great at not
seeing. And then sleep came down over the
household, and only the miserable Estelle stood
by the window, looking up to the starry sky,
wondering in which bright point her darling's
soul was placed, sure that he was looking down
on her and pitying her despair.

He, at least, is happy,' she said to herself
again and again for reassurance. ' I am selfish
to be so wretched ! I should be happy, knowing
that he is out of pain and sorrow. But
oh! he would have been so happy had he
lived, with my love, as 1 with his. Oh, that
we might have known that love — that dear

sweet life together, before God had taken him
to Himself.'

It was the cry of the human heart making
itself heard in spite of all the comforting assurances
of faith — the pitiful sob of love, stronger
than death and dearer than the eternal heaven
of peace and unfading joy.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE LAYING OF THE GROUND.

Days passed, and Estelle was still invisible to
the world outside Les Saules, and but rarely to
that within. She was ill, her mother said to
Anthony Harford and all other inquirers ; which
indeed was but too true, and ill as much mentally
as physically. Something seemed to have
snapped in her — something that would never be
renewed. She had lost all interest in things,
and even in life itself. Her painting, her music,
her embroidery — all her pretty girlish work was
neglected and laid aside ; and she was more like
those soulless women of romance — women only
by form, not by nature— than a living, loving
daughter of man.

She would see no one — not even Lady Elizabeth
— and certainly not Anthony Harford. For
him, indeed, she showed so much shuddering
repugnance that her mother was afraid to press
her. Her mother was afraid of her altogether ;
and constantly pondered within herself on the
chances of the poor child's ultimate recovery.
But Time — Time — that bale and blessing of
the world — Time would do all, and the wound
would be healed at last. Life would probably
never be the same to her as before ; but we
have to make up with scraps and fragments
when the first fresh wholeness has gone. And
she would have to do her duty, willing or unwilling.
The sacrifice of herself had to be
made, cost her what it would. She had to be
Anthony's wife, though she paid the supreme
forfeit in return.

On this point Mrs. Clanricarde was inexorable.
She was emphatically a modern mother with
whom love counts as folly, and money is the
only desirable good in marriage — who will
welcome as her son-in-law a moral leper or a
physical, if sufficiently well gilded — to whom a

daughter's heart is merely a muscular arrangement,
to be pressed down when inconveniently
active and to be ignored when only passively
suffering. This phase of modern maternity had
commended itself to Mrs. Clanricarde as the
most rational and the most duty doing ; and
Estelle had to submit to her mother's principles,
as girls must.

During this time of the girl's first anguish of
despair Anthony Harford's state was only a
shade less pitiable than hers. All Kingshouse
had, of course, seen the announcement of poor
Charlie's death, and all Kingshouse understood
the meaning of Estelle's indisposition. Naturally
Anthony's ear had been bombarded again
and again with the unwelcome Q. E. D. of
gossip. For a jealous man as he was, arbitrary
and resolute, this demonstration was so much
torture ; but he had not lived with hot-blooded
cowboys handy with their shooting irons, and
high-toned gamblers ready with their bowie-knives,
for nothing. He controlled all outward
expression of feeling as rigidly as if he had
been a true redskin, and only Lady Elizabeth

knew what no one else saw nor suspected.
From her, indeed, he had now no concealment.
She had taken the place of his second self — his
incarnate conscience — his visible thought ; and
that she suffered in her turn from the burden he
laid on her was as well concealed from him as
that internal rage of his was hidden from the
world at large.

Between her and Mrs. Clanricarde Anthony
came to what it was meant should be to him
the right measure of things.

« A boy's death has pained her. Poor Charlie
Osborne was like her brother. They had been
brought up together, and they had really a
brother's and sister's affection for each other.
She has naturally been shocked at the announcement
; so, indeed, have we all. Who would
not be — such a dear, good, young fellow as he
was! But she is not ill on that account. She
is ill from a chill, and has a sore throat and
fever. It is only this.'

This was Mrs. Clanricarde's smooth-skimmed
account of things to Mr. Harford when he
pressed her closely, and made her give at least

the semblance of a reason for Estelle's persistent
invisibility. Lady Elizabeth, however, put
matters on a more truthful basis, for indeed
she could not be aught but truthful, let the cost
be what it might.

'Yes, she was what is meant by "in love"
with him,' she said with her gentle straightforwardness
when Anthony asked her if there had
been anything like a love affair — an engagement
— between Miss Clanricarde and this young
man, whose name at this moment filled the air ;
and they were in a manner engaged — in that
hopeless way where there is no money now
and very little chance of any here afterwards —
where the engagement is only between themselves
— not known to the world nor sanctioned
by the parents.'

1 But he is dead now,' said Anthony.

'Poor dear Charlie! yes, too surely!' said
Lady Elizabeth.

1 And was he such a wonderful person, really
now?' asked Anthony, with no unnecessary
suavity — with scarcely as much, indeed, as was
quite necessary.

Yes,' said Lady Elizabeth ; ' be was a dear
fellow. We all liked him.'

'You, too, Lady Elizabeth?'
1, too,' she said.

But he is dead now,' repeated Anthony, a
little more harshly than even before. ' And no
woman loves the dead for ever, to the exclusion
of the living,' he added.

Lady Elizabeth did not answer. In her
own mind she thought it probable that Estelle
would go on loving Charlie dead as she had
loved him living. Once to love would be always
to love with herself; and she credited
her poor, broken-hearted friend with her own
constancy.

She shall forget him,' continued Anthony,
in a certain sense piqued by her non-response.
< I will love her so that she shall not remember
him, still less lament him. She shall find her
happiness in my arms,' he went on more as if
speaking to himself than to a listener. * She
shall be so happy in my love, so well cared for,
that she will not even wish to change could her
wish bring back the dead.'

Lady Elizabeth's face became as pale as the
snowdrops in the vase beside her.

If she married you I know that you would
be good to her,' she said, in a low, level voice,
without inflection or emphasis.

'If? She shall!' returned Anthony, speaking
with the intensity of constrained passion.
Neither man nor devil shall keep her from me !
She is destined''

Hush !' said Lady Elizabeth, blanched to her
very lips. ' You make me shudder.'

Why V he asked, with all his usual gentleness,
all the chivalrous tenderness which was his
ordinary bearing when he spoke to her. « Why
should you shudder V

It seems almost as if you were forcing fate
compelling your own destiny — which is always
sorrow,' she said.

He took both her hands. It was his favourite
action with her.

4 Oh, you Delight,' he said with a smile. * Are
you, too, daughter of the gods as you are, superstitious
like the little people whose brains are
no bigger than pygmies' V

VOL. II.

Who can help it who cares for another's
happiness V was her ingenuous reply, made
steadily and without shamefacedness.

And you care for mine V

6 Yes, indeed,' she answered. She still spoke
with steadiness, direct and unashamed.

How I wish you were my sister !' said Anthony.
'Estelle my wife — you my sister — I
would ask nothing more from heaven but long
life to enjoy my superb happiness.'

Something, she did not know what it was,
nor could she control it, seemed to come up into
Lady Elizabeth's eyes and throat. She felt
choking, as if deep waters were closing over
her head — as if she must cry out for help. Help
for what? She could not answer. Her voice had
gone ; she had no power of speech left in her ;
but Anthony, irritable and sore on his own side,
read nothing of the truth as it was. He thought
her silence was from offended pride, and that
she resented this intimate blackening of a life,
4 not born as the Germans say, when compared
with her own.

4 Are you offended at such close association?'
he asked, all his pride in his voice.

She shook her head and faintly smiled. Then
with a supreme effort she conquered her strange
emotion and said :

1 No, no, indeed not !' steadily.

Anthony looked at her with an odd, perplexed
expression in his face. For a moment his deep-set
eyes seemed to scrutinize, to ask, to consider.
Then it was as if he shook himself clear of something
that disturbed and distracted him, and his
face took back the frankly confident look it
always had when with Lady Elizabeth — and with
no one but her.

I have set all my heart and all my hope on
this card,' he said, returning to his main
thought. ' 1 may be echoed, but if I am '

You will know how to bear your disappointment
bravely,' said Lady Elizabeth, thinking of
Caleb.

'Bravely? I do not know about that, from
your point of view,' he said. ' From my own,
yes, bravely enough.'

o2

6 Your point of view is sure to be right
she answered, not so much in the tone of
perfect assurance, as of heartening by that
kind of trust which is more exhortation than
certainty.

Thank you,' said Anthony, thinking to himself
: ' Would she say this if she knew V

After some further talk Mr. Harford left the
Dower House, no nearer, truly, to his great
desire that when he had gone there, but with a
heart somewhat lightened, in that vague manner
of a clearer moral atmosphere where, though
things are not more definite, the clouds seem to
have lifted.

During all these days of Estelle's seclusion
Anthony Harford was like a soul in pain. Restless,
distracted, he inflicted his trouble on his
friend, who had to bear his burden as well asher
own, and not to show where it galled and
pressed. He avoided Hindfleet, but he almost
lived at the Dower House, where, however, he
did not shine with quite the same brilliancy as
in the beginning. Some of the quainter forms
of his adopted speech were falling from him,

and he was becoming daily more English and
less American — reverting to his original condition
with natural rapidity. Still, he was
dacier than most and more unconventional than
most, and if not quite so ' hors de ligne,' as in the
beginning, quite enough so to interest the earl
and amuse the countess ; while their daughter
accepted the pain, of which she alone herself
was conscious, with the sweet steadfastness
of a Christian martyr, making no sign.

At last time worked its partial cure so far
that Estelle consented to reappear in the world.
The sharpness of her anguish, which had for the
moment warped her brain and which still dulled
her normal affections, had given place to a dull
aching and a leaden kind of indifference. It
did not much matter now how things went.
she had lost the centre of her life's interest —
the dear love she had worshipped as a fire
worshipper kneels to the sun — and for the rest
what did it signify 1 Something in her had
given way, like the snapping of a chain, and her
mind did not work nor suffer as before. She
was dead in some part of her being, but she

had not the insensibility of death in all. She
was more beautiful than ever. The pathos in
her eyes, like those of a wounded animal, went
straight to the heart of those who saw her.
The deadly pallor of her cheeks enhanced the
burning crimson of her feverish lips ; and the
curling rings of raven hair enhanced the whiteness
of her skin. Something had come and
something had gone, but the result was even a
greater charm and more wonderful beauty of
face and mien. Such love as Anthony Harford
had already felt, flamed hotter and higher
when he saw her for the first time after her
illness. He would not see in her state the
result of grief, only the result of physical ailment
; and he felt for her in consequence that
very passion of tenderness which strong men
feel for the woman they love, when those
women are even more helpless than usual, more
frail and more dependent.

I am glad to see you again, and sorry you have
been sick he said, holding her hand in both of
his.

1 Thank you, I am better,' she answered
wearily, not looking at him.

You have been very sick, I can see that,' he
continued with great tenderness.

She made no reply. She only drew away her
hand, more coldly than with repugnance. A
spasm crossed Anthony's face, like a shadow.
It was repeated in Mrs. Clanricarde's.

i She will spoil everything,' she thought to herself.
' Was ever mother cursed so as IV

'You should give her change of air, Mrs.
Clanricarde,' said Anthony, turning to the
mother.

Mrs. Clanricarde looked out of the window.
The rain was falling fast — that cold, harsh rain
of the retreating winter flinging its Parthian
darts before the spring finally chases it away.

It is scarcely the weather for the sea,' she
said ; ' and London air is not bracing.'

She did not add, * and too costly for my
crippled purse,' which she might have done had
she been careful for the truth.

1 The air at Thrift is notoriously fine,' said

Anthony hastily. * I must be back there next
week. Why not come with me for a change,
all three of you ? 1 am sure it would do Miss
Clanricarde good in every way.'

He added these last words in the spirit of a
woman's postscript — as a rider that included
more than the main text.

That would be delightful !' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo
eagerly. 'I know that change is just
what Estelle wants to set her up again. But,
unless one went to a friend's house there is more
chance of harm than of good from it. Lodgings
and hotels are so comfortless ! One's own home
or a friend's well-appointed house — that is the
only thing we can do.'

Then you will come V he added. * Will you
like that, Miss Clanricarde ? Will you like to
come to my place V he added, speaking directly
to Estelle.

No,' said Estelle, with a sudden look of fear
in her eyes. ' Do not go, mother ! do not let us
leave home !'

It will do you good, my dear,' answered her
mother suavely. * It is for your own sake.'

If for mine, then I do not wish it,' persisted
the girl.

It will do you good said Anthony.

I do not want any good done to me,' she
answered, with curious sullenness — curious, that
is in the girl she used to be ; common enough
alas ! in these later times.

Her opposition wrought the usual effect of all
opposition on Anthony. It strengthened his
resolve and braced his determination.

Your mother consents, and I hold her to her
promise,' he said with sudden sternness. ■ If it
is disagreeable to you, you can make tracks home
if you like. But you've got to come and see for
yourself.'

1 Mother !' appealed Estelle.

Don't be silly, child,' said Mrs. Clanricarde
with affected banter and real displeasure.
'What is there to object to in paying a visit to
a beautiful country-house in a superb country
place ! One would think you were asked to goto
a prison !'

1 You are not very flattering to me either,' said
Anthony as sternly as before.

He was not so supple as Mrs. Clanricarde, and
he did not think his habitual self-command quite
in place at this moment.

*I do not wish to flatter you said Estelle
drawing herself up, and speaking with intense
haughtiness.

Was this really Estelle Clanricarde, that
timid, sweet and fawn-like girl whose nature
had hitherto been like that of a sensitive-plant,
drooping under a touch, influenced even by a
breath f

Anthony saw the folly and humiliation of a war
of words with a girl in such a mood.

Well, no,' he laughed with a good-humour as
forced as Mrs. Clanricarde's banter had been.
That would scarcely be the way. At all events
we have got so far on the road — so much is
settled. You and your father and mother will
come with me to Thrift next week, and you
will get back there all your roses, I promise
you

4 So far the ground is laid,' said Anthony to
himself. * All now depends on myself.'

CHAPTER XIV.

HER ADVANCING DOOM.

AGAINST that fatal visit to Thrift, which Estelle
knew too well would be her doom, she made
such resistance as was in her power. She
revolted openly at home and silently to Anthony
Harford, whom, however, she could not repulse
with absolute directness. She had no * locus
standi,' for he gave her none. She could not
tell him that she would not marry him, when
he had not yet asked her ; and her mother, made
wise by experience, was careful not to even
hint at such a contingency. The whole thing
was in the air, voiceless and formless, but none
the less there. Estelle knew that she was going

to her ruin and despair, but she could not save
herself. She was like another Iphigenia, bound
in her saffron-coloured garments, and held as a
kid above the sacrificial altar. And just as the
hapless Greek maiden appealed in vain to her
executioners, so did she struggle against hers —
against the mother who mutely offered, and
against the lover who as mutely accepted, the
sacrifice of more than her mere life.

There was no help for her. Charlie was
dead ; things financial at home were going
rapidly from bad to worse ; and there was no
one to whom she could turn. Sometimes she
thought of appealing to Caleb Stagg. Between
the two she would rather call him her husband
than be Anthony Harford's wife. With the one
she would be her own mistress and his queen,
honoured and obeyed ; with the other she would
be a slave, caressed and well cared for, but
always a slave. The very unreasonableness of
Caleb made him less shameful in her mind ;
while the superb personality of Anthony seemed
to justify her treachery to her dead lover's
memory. The most miserable creature between

earth and sky at this moment to be
found in a decent English home was this same
beautiful Estelle Clanricarde — this woman fatal
to men, and therefore the enemy of her own
peace — this woman observed and in a manner
destroyed by the excess of that love of which
so many pale, pining sisters have not enough to
keep them alive.

The day before this dreadful visit was to take
place Estelle went alone to the Dower House.
It was the first day that she had gone out since
the fatal announcement of poor Charlie's death,
and she had a sudden desire to see Lady Elizabeth,
whom, by the way, she had refused to see
for all these days of mourning. Mrs. Clanricarde
wanted to go with her, but Estelle showed so
much temper at the proposal — how changed
she was from the sweet-natured, pliant, loving
girl of the happier past ! — that the mother gave
way. She had all but secured the main thing,
she thought ; the minor might go. All the
same, she was a little uneasy. Estelle's state
was strange and strained, and evil thoughts
might possess her disastrously. But she yielded,

and her daughter walked over to the Dower
House alone.

The spring was stealing over the earth, and
all the first signs and sounds of the renewed
love-time of nature were about. The first pale
flowers had come as the first young leaves —
while the later were still folded up in their
shining buds. The twigs and branches of the
hawthorn were red as with living blood ; the
birds were singing in the bushes ; the air was
sweet and fresh. The whole atmosphere was
one of love, and Estelle, essentially the child of
the country, felt to her inmost being the whole
meaning of the day and time, and received into
her heart the message given to her by love.
But love and death were now one with her ;
and as she walked, the tears gathered silently
into her eyes and fell down her face unheeded.
How all these circumstances of the time had
once been as messages and words sent by
Charlie ! And now he was lying in his grave
as pale as those snowdrops, as cold as that
snowdrift still heaped within the sunless ravine
there on the fell. Ah, how sad life was to her

now ! What a sorrowful funeral chant in place
of that once jocund hymn of praise and joy!
Then she thought of Anthony Harford, and
the funeral chant changed to a still deeper
threnody, which made her shiver as if in a fever
fit.

She found Lady Elizabeth at home, and the
two friends met, as they had parted, in all confidence
and affection, all trust and love, though
only one of the two knew the whole truth of
their joint position. And even she did not
know the whole truth all round. Each was
frankly shocked at the change which these few
weeks had wrought in the other. Each was
like a faded photograph of the past. But where
Lady Elizabeth had, as it were, sublimed into a
more etherealized self — a self which had come
out of a spiritual conflict the victor at a cost
of physical vitality — Estelle had chilled and
hardened, as something which had become
petrified rather than etherealized.

4 Oh, Liesee, I am so miserable !' cried Estelle,
as she clung to her friend.

It was the most human and the most natural

thing she had said since that deadly night.

1 Darling, you must be !' returned Lady
Elizabeth, holding her in her arms and kissing
her as a young mother would kiss her sorrowing
child.

And as if I had not enough to bear, there is
now this hateful man !' said Estelle, with the
strange vehemence which sometimes possessed
her of late — vehemence traversing her deadness
like lightning piercing a thundercloud.

Lady Elizabeth checked the sudden quiver
that came over her. She did not answer. She
only pressed the poor girl yet more tenderly to
her heart. Free from all the littleness of jealousy
as she was, she loved Estelle the more
because Anthony Harford loved her, and would,
if she could, have made her love him in return.
If she could not make his happiness herself she
did not hate the one who could ; nor did she
wish his to be incomplete through the want of
that other's love. But to call anthony Harford
1 that hateful man,' hurt her ears as blasphemy
in its own way.

'I daresay you think me vain and horrid,'

continued Estelle, ' for speaking of him as if I
had the right to hate him. But we all know
those things too well; we know when men are
in love with us and mean to make an offer.
And then there is my mother — and Lieseeee ! Lieseeee !
between them both I am lost ! I sometimes
think I will kill myself, and so have done with
the whole thing. Now that Charlie is gone, why
should I live V

'Hush, darling!' said Lady Elizabeth gently.
I cannot hear such things even from you. You
must not even think them, dear, still less say
them.'

Why should I live V she repeated sullenly,
yet despairingly. ' To be made the loathing
wife of a man I hate ! I know that mother will
force me into it. If it broke my heart she
would not mind, so long as I married a rich
man

6 But if he sees your dislike said Lady Elizabeth
tentatively.

Oh ! what would he care for that V answered
Estelle disdainfully. < He does see it — he
knows it well enough ! I make him feel it, and

VOL. II. P

have done so almost from the first ; but he is
just one of those selfish, self-willed savages who
care only for themselves. He does not mind
whether I hate him or not, so long as he gets
his own way !'

You are a little hard on him, dear said
Lady Elizabeth, always gently. 'You see,
when people are in love — they are — and they
cannot help themselves.'

Her argument was more natural than convincing
or logical, but it served her turn.

But if you are not in love with them they
ought to get over it said Estelle loftily. * That
poor Caleb Stagg did, and so ought this man.
He would, if he were good or a real gentleman.'


You do hate him V cried Lady Elizabeth
with an accent of surprise in her voice.

'I do !' answered Estelle emphatically ; ' and
I always shall.'

But if you have to marry him !' asked her
friend, full of compassion for both — for the man
who loved in vain, for the woman who had to
yield to a love she neither shared nor desired.

I will not marry him !' said Estelle, vehemently.
' I will say " No " before the altar !'

Alas ! alas ! these passionate words were but
the struggles of the victim — the beating of the
caged bird's wings against the cruel bars. Deep
down in her own heart she knew that her
mother's will would overpower hers. Lady
Elizabeth knew so too.

Oh, help me, Liesee !' cried this poor uncelebrated
Iphigenia, burying her face on her
friend's knees as she flung herself to the ground
and clasped that flexible waist with her trembling
hands.

'How can I, dear? how can IT said Lady
Elizabeth, in a kind of agony.

Make him in love with you,' said Estelle —
as she might have said, ' Give me wings to flyaway
and be at rest.' ' You are so much better
a match than I am in every way. Why did he
not fall in love with you from the first 1 It would
be so easy to make him, now !'

For a few seconds Lady Elizabeth did not
speak. The demands made by friendship on
one's patience, one's endurance, are sometimes

P2

very hard, and duty is oftener rude than sweet.
But she had to speak ; and to speak so that Estelle
should not understand.

Do you think hearts are like shuttlecocks y
dear?' she asked gently. 'If Mr. Harford
loves you what can he see in me ? and how could
I, even for you, play such a mean part as to try
to make a man in love with me when he is not
so of his own free will ! Besides, I could not if
I did try.'

Then tell him how much I hate him,' cried
Estelle.

And how can I do even that, dear V her friend
again remonstrated. * He has not yet said that
he loves you. How can I, with any regard to
your dignity, tell him this V

Yes, you can !' said Estelle almost fiercely.
k And if you loved me, Liesee, you would !'

1 I do love you, darling — you know I do ; but
I could not say this to Mr. Harford. It is the
kind of thing that only the person's own self can
say.'

1 And I will !' said Estelle, still in that same
fierce and unnatural way by which she was, as

It were, transformed from her real self and made
into another creature. As indeed she was. Her
grief had just a little warped her brain and
darkened the mild radiance of her moral nature.
Had there not been this additional distress of an
unwelcome admirer she would have suffered as
keenly but with less bitterness. And she would
have worked round to her normal condition indue
time, when she had forded the Jordan of her
sorrow. But Anthony Harford and her mother
were the real drops of bitterness in her cup,
and it was they who had poisoned the arrow of
death so that the wound festered into almost
madness.

If I am made to marry him I will kill myself !'
she then said after a pause. ' I feel as sure as
of my own existence that he intends to ask me
when we are at his horrible place, and that
mother means to force me to accept him. That
is why we are going ! I feel it. I know it.
And I will not ! I should be wicked and false
to myself if I did. I should always feel my poor
dear dead darling's wife. I should never feel
really and rightly married to this hateful man.

And how can I many, feeling as 1 do V It would
be a crime ! Do feelings count for nothing ?
Why, they are everything ! Tell me, Liesee ; how
could IV

Lady Elizabeth did not answer. What could
she say ? It was not for her to dissuade another
woman — and the woman he loved — from making
the happiness of a man as dear to her as Anthony
Harford ; nor was it for her, as a woman, to persuade
a sister to forswear herself, and give her
body without her heart, herself without her
love. She was, as it were, caught between two
fires, and she had to suffer from the scorching of
each. And just for one moment she thought that
her own place was almost as hard as Estelle's,
and that there are other deaths beside that of
the body, as we know it.

At this moment the door-bell rang, and Mr.
Harford was brought up into Lady Elizabeth's
sanctuary, where the two girls were. Lady
Kingshouse was never visible before luncheon.
My Lord was in bed after a protracted ' sweep '
last night ; and only Lady Elizabeth was available
— as Anthony knew. He had been sent on

here by Mrs. Clanricarde. He had called at Les
Saules, and she, glad of his escort and protection
from herself for Estelle, told him where she was
to be found, and suggested his going to find her
and bring her home. Which'suggestion he had
adopted gladly enough. When he entered the
room something came over her friend's face
which startled Estelle, preoccupied as she was
with her own troubles. Pale as Lady Elizabeth
was before, she became paler still ; and her calm
dignity of manner had a certain strained and
almost unnatural stillness, as if she were forcing
herself to be unexpressive. Indeed, it was
glacial rather than merely calm, as is the way
with those who have something to hide. But
though Estelle saw she did not understand.
She had none of that sharpness of perception
which makes the born detective. What passed
before her eyes passed unfathomed — this change
in Lady Elizabeth's manner and her greater
pallor among the rest. It was only afterwards,
when still further enlightened by her own
sufferings, that she remembered what she had
seen, and then she read the underneath of the

cards. At the moment she took it to be a kind
of consciousness of their conversation, such as
sensitive people have when they have talked
of things they would not wish the newcomer to
hear.

Very soon after Anthony came in Estelle
rose to go. Anthony, who had not even
sat down, made a step forward as if to go
too.

Are you going V he asked in his quiet masterful
way.

1 Yes,' said Estelle hurriedly.

Good-bye, Lady Elizabeth,' said Anthony.

You need not come, Mr. Harford,' exclaimed
Estelle.

Yes, I have got to take you home,' he
answered.

1 do not want you,' said Estelle, turning from
him abruptly, and speaking as abruptly as had
been her action.

1 That is not the question,' he laughed a little
grimly. 'Your mamma' — he pronounced it
maria ' — ' told me I was to take you back.
So here I am.'

1 would rather you did not,' said Estelle, her
colour rising and her dark eyes growing gloomy
beneath her lowered brow.

I have got to,' was the reply, made without
the smallest show of feeling, certainly with none
of yielding.

He stood as if on parade, erect, determined,
inflexible ; and Estelle felt that to try and deflect
that stubborn will was like trying to soften
granite with her tears — to move the eternal
rock by her prayers.

6 1 think it very unkind of you, Mr. Harford —
very gentlemanlike to do what I don't wish,'
she cried, flashing out into one of the estrange
tempers which, since the announcement of
Charlie's death, had been all too familiar and
frequent with her.

Anthony's bronze cheeks grew livide

I am sorry if you are displeased,' he said, just
as quiet as usual in tone and manner, but with
an ominous flash in his eyes to match the'gloomy
anger in hers ; ' but I have your mamma's orders
and I must obey them. I have got to take you
home.'

Then I shall not go at all. I shall stay here,'
said Estelle.

I As you like,' answered Anthony, seating
himself.

Estelle burst into tears. They were tears of
wounded pride, of annoyance only, and did
nothing to dissolve that terrible hardness — to
damp down that consuming fire in her veins.

I I am sorry to be so distasteful an escort,' said
Anthony ; but if he was sorry, his sorrow was
very like sternness. t You have got to submit,
however, and you have to let me walk with
you home.'

I wish I was dead,' said Estelle passionately.


It's but a little matter to raise Cain for,' said
Anthony drily.

All this time Lady Elizabeth had not spoken.
She had not been appealed to by either, and she
would have been hard put to it if she had. She
too felt that Estelle in her present mood was
best accompanied, and that even Anthony's ungracious
persistence had its valuable side.

I would go with you, dear,' she said in a low

voice ; * but I have promised my father to ride
with him after luncheon ; and it is close on
luncheon time now.'

Come, Miss Clanricarde. It is time we were
going,' said Anthony who had overheard her.
1 1 promised to take you back for lunch.'

There was nothing for it but to obey. She
was caught and caged here too, as in other
things and at other times. Anthony said she had
got to do it, and she could not help herself.
But she resolved to make that walk back to
Les Saules as unpleasant as she knew how;
and Anthony wished twenty times before it
was over that his pride would let him mount
his horse and ride away from her as from
one whose dismissal he understood and accepted.
He suffered as she meant he should.
But it was to no good. Her very reluctance
acted as a spur, not a check. She enraged
him, but she strengthened his resolve by that
very rage. He had sworn that he would
marry her, and he meant to do as he had sworn.
Her sick fancies and girlish impertinence should
not deter him. When she was all his own

things would come right. He trusted to his
own power then to win her. No woman that
he loved could resist him, he thought in the
plenitude of his self-confidence — his pride. And
he loved her so violently, so passionately, he
must, by the very logic of things — the very law
of sequence and cause and effect — make her love
him when once he had the right to lavish all the
treasures of his heart upon her. So he reasoned
and so he thought within himself, while he
walked by Estelle's side, leading his horse and
talking to her as easily as if she loved the sound
of his voice and enjoyed his anecdotes instead of
hating them — enjoyed them as much say as Lady
Elizabeth would have done. Then her dreary
penance accomplished, they reached home at last ;
when Anthony's horse was put up in the stable
and he himself was asked to stay for luncheon
and through the afternoon. And Estelle was not
suffered by her mother to escape upstairs into
solitude as she wished ; and by that mother's
presence and authority was forced into some
faint show of politeness to their guest — politeness,
perhaps, but certainly not amiability.

The next day they all left Les Saules ; and
when the evening came they were seated at
Anthony's own table at Thrift by Thorbergh —
where Mrs. Latimer and Mary Crosby lived.

CHAPTER XV.

THE SETTING-IN OF THE NIGHT.

How often since the time of Tacitus has that
desert made by oppression been called Peace !
When the creature is dead the struggle is
over and the victory is secure. But the creature
is dead all the same. Still, if beautiful,
there is always its skin, which art can make to
look passably alive. It was so now. The thing
was done ; the end was gained. The dreaded
offer was finally made ; and, if not accepted in
.any sense of graciousness, it was assented to as
perforce. What can the wildest hawk that
ever flew across the mountain tops into space
do when hooded and held ! It must sit quiet
on the hand that holds it. It cannot see and it

cannot fly. Nor could Estelle resist. It had
been a hard fight, but the authorities had conquered
; and they had killed her essential being
in the victory. This was an accident that did
not count. What they had fought for they had
won, and the mischances of the war were integral
to the account. They must be accepted, however
severe they might be.

Things financial had grown worse and ever
worse at home, and had now come to their
climax. This failure and that had still further
contracted the meagre capital left undissolved
by the acids of former failures ; and now Mr.
Clanricarde would be declared bankrupt unless
help should come from the skies. Saving this
miracle it could come to him only through Estelle's
marriage. On the wedding-day Mr.
Harford promised to hand over to his father-in-law
such and such sums as should release him
from his troubles, and set him square before the
world and with his creditors. But only on his
wedding-day. The English gentleman had
learned so much of diplomatic caution and
astute reserve from his American experiences

as to make his promise contingent, not absolute.
When Estelle's hand was in his, the money
should be her father's. Then, without fail — but
not an hour before.

Would a daughter allow this terrible ruin to
fall on the honoured heads of her beloved and
loving parents, that she might indulge her very
proper and natural grief unchecked ? Would
not such indulgence be selfish — sacred as her
grief might be V

Mrs. Clanricarde was careful of her adjectives,
and specially solicitous to speak of Estelle's
sorrow with becoming respect. It was no
longer a ' foolish fancy,' not worth a second
thought. It had been a serious and honourable
love, the light of which was now quenched in
the grave of a respectable sorrow. But this
sorrow had to be in its turn overcome for a
noble purpose — one nobler than mere verbal
fidelity.

The mother touched the daughter's heart by
her reasoning, her sympathy, her manner. She
made her weep as she had not wept since
Charlie's death, when she herself, that mother,

honestly moved — for, indeed, the peril was
great ! — earnestly, almost humbly besought her
child for this sacrifice of self to save her and
her father. That father, too, at last dismayed,
and as destitute of hope as of assets, added his
prayers to his wife's ; and Estelle was at once
softened into pity and trained into the strength
of sacrifice. She would immolate herself for
their gain. Out of the ashes of her own happiness
should rise their safety; and Charlie in
heaven would see and understand — and, therefore,
he would not only forgive but would bless
this seeming perfidy. He would know why, and
he would read her heart. He would know that
never for one instant had her thoughts, her love,
her faithfulness strayed from him ; and that
this gift of her poor person was but the bestowal
of the husk, the shell, the mask, while
all the time the life and the core were in his
grave for ever.

So she thought, her beautiful brown eyes
raised to the cloud-flecked sky, as if trying to
see her lover's glorified form somewhere like a
cloud itself against the blue ; and then, with

VOL. II. Q

the passionate sense of sacrifice for duty's sake,
she turned to her father and mother, and in a
low, soft, solemn voice, said : ' Yes ; let it be
so!'

'And God will bless you now and for ever!'
said Mrs. Clanricarde, taking her in her arms
and weeping genuine tears of both sympathy
and relief. The relief, indeed, suffered the
sympathy to exist. Now that she had no
longer her own anxieties to think of she could
spare thought for her daughter's sufferings.
And, while she accepted, she realized the magnitude
of the sacrifice she had urged. But
the father, who had always been the most
sympathetic of the two, was now the least.
The peril of the moment had swamped all other
considerations, and he had the irresistible selfishness
of a weak nature not strong enough for
altruism.

With a hurried kiss, that somewhat hurt
Estelle more than if it had been a sharp word,
he slipped from the room and went to Anthony,
waiting in the library. The strong man had
been forced to fight under cover. That fair

fortress would not yield to him. He knew that
well enough. He had to negotiate through
other media, and to employ all such agents ashe
could press into his service. The result
proved his wisdom. To himself, unsupported
by those passionate prayers of her mother,
Estelle would never have yielded. For that
mother's sake she did ; and Anthony set his
teeth over the method and accepted what it
brought him without too great mental discomfort.


She was his now, and he had won the day,
while she had nothing for it but to accept things
as they came. She had to submit to his grave
caress, in which was a tumult of passion she neither
saw nor dreamed of. She was his victim and his
captive, truly ; but he would make her his willing
slave while he treated her as his sceptred
queen. All the tenderness that man can show
to woman he poured out on her now, as he
ever would ; and in time — in time so short as to
be a mere nothing — he would win her to himself
for ever and ever. No knight of olden time
was ever more loyally devoted than was

Q2

Anthony Harford to this beautiful Elle woman,
whose body was empty of its heart and souL
No lover of old romance was ever more tender,
more assiduous. He seemed but to live in her
eyes — but to live for her happiness. All that
he did was so grave and tender, so full of
knightly courtesy and devotion, that Estelle
herself was almost touched to pity the passion
she loathed rather than shared. But she herself
was in a state of exaltation as unreal as all the
rest. She knew that she was going to her
martyrdom ; but she was like a Hindu widow
made insensible to pain and dead to reality by
the intoxication of spiritual belief. She scarcely
felt her position as it was. She was giving
herself for her parents, and she did not look too
narrowly at the method of her sacrifice. All she
knew was that she was engaged to marry
Anthony Harford ; that the engagement was
publicly announced; that her marriage would
free her parents from ruin ; and that Charlie
Osborne was lying dead in his grave beneath
the far-off skies of Japan.

The news spread like wild-fire over dry grass

when it reached the loose-hung tongues of
Kingshouse. Everybody fell foul of Mrs. Clan-ricardo
as a • managing mother,' a * matchmaker,'
and all the rest of it. They fell foul
of her, not knowing how much cause lay behind
— only Lady Elizabeth and Caleb Stagg
being able to measure the amount of pressure
that must have been put on the poor girl to
bring her to this pass. For the rest it was
simply the curious kind of envy which possesses
people when they see the success of a
comrade, even when that success takes nothing
from themselves. Mrs. Aspline did not want
Anthony for herself nor for Anne ; nor did Anne,
on her own account. Still, these two were the
most bitter at home and most chilly abroad,
when the engagement was discussed — even
anger not tempting that clever Cooke to break
through the rules of careful speech with anything
stronger than the damnation of faint
praise, and rigid abstinence from hard words even
when most irate.

Meanwhile, Mr. and Mrs. Clanricarde, with
Anthony and Estelle, called to see Mrs. Latimer.

This was only what was due to the widow of
a cousin who had left a tidy little income to his
unlucky relation — for all the fact of the mesalliance,
which Mrs. Clanricarde's pride could
never forgive. They called so far in vain.
They could not see the tough old annuitant ;
for she was ill in bed with the bronchitis, said
the tall, well got-up servant, whom Estelle at
all events at" once recognized as Crosby, Charlie's
old nurse, when they were boy and girl together.
Her heart went out to this hard-featured reso-
lute-looking woman, as if she had been some
part of Charlie's self. So she was, in the
spiritual past. She went up to her and laid her
hand on her arm.

Mary !' she said. ' Mary Crosby !'

1 Yes, miss ; and you are Miss Clanricarde/
returned Mary, the colour coming into her face.

When the party had entered she had been
very pale ; anxiously erect like a soldier on
duty ; with an air of resoluteness that was next
thing to aggression, and that made her look
prepared for a fight.

1 knew you all directly you came in, but I

did not know that you would remember me,' she
added more naturally.

I thought 1 knew your face,' said Mrs. Clan-ricardo
; ' then you still hive with Mrs. Latimer V

6 Yes, ma'am,' said May.

6 And she is ill to-day?'

Yes, ma'am. She has the bronchitis. She
often has,' replied Mrs. Latimer's faithful
attendant.

Can we not see her V asked Mrs. Clanri-
carde.

1 I doubt not, ma'am,' said Mary.

Is she in bed?'

4 Yes, in bed upstairs

'Have you a doctor?' then put in George.

I have not sent for him yet, but T shall if
Mrs. Latimer gets worse,' said Mary. ' You see,
she has the bronchitis so often that 1 know
what to do — with poultices and Dover's powders.
The doctor he taught me ; so we do not
have him for every little bout.'

'I should like to see her,' said George.

Perhaps she will be better in a day or two,'
added Mrs. Clanricarde.

Perhaps so, ma'am,' said Mary.

If she wants anything* done for her comfort
' said Anthony, leaving the rest to her

imagination.

Mary made a curtsey.

Thank you, sir,' she answered ; • but Mrs.
Latimer is a very quiet old lady and gives no
trouble to no one.'

Yes, she is a model tenant,' returned Anthony
with a smile.

All this time Estelle had kept close to Mary,
looking at her with eyes which love and
memory made yet more pathetic than usual.
The old wounds opened and bled afresh ; the
old love rose up like dead Lazarus, from the
tomb ; and when Anthony touched her arm,
and said to her with the lover's voice she had
learned to hear without wincing :-look here,
darling, what a beautiful bit of workmanship
this is,' — taking up a Spanish silver-handled
knife — she shuddered from head to foot, and
involuntarily shrunk as if she had been touched
by something noxious. Mary's quick eyes saw
the action, as her ears, sharpened to hear all

things that might touch her own life, caught the
word and tone of lover-like familiarity. She put
two and two together in her rapid way ; then
said suddenly :

Excuse the liberty, ma'am, but I was that
grieved to see the death of poor Master Charlie
in the paper.' Here genuine tears came into her
eyes. ' I had lost sight of him, but I never forgot
him.'

Estelle's face told her all she wanted to know.
If her face had not told her, the spasmodic
grasp of her arm would have been revelation
enough. The poor child turned away from
them all, and her thought shaped itself into
the one wild prayer that went up like a
stifled sob : ' God, let me die !'

Yes, poor fellow, it was an awful death, so
sudden and unexpected,' said Mrs. Clanricarde ;
while Anthony's brow grew as black as night,
and his dark eyes flashed ominously with sullen
fire.

Come,' he said haughtily to his party ; ' we
must be going. We evidently shall not see
Mrs. Latimer to-day, and time is passing. Good-morning,

woman,' to Mary. ' Come, Estelle, let
me take you

Good-bye, dear Mary said Estelle ; and in
the face of them all — in defiance of Anthony
and of the usual formalities of society — she bent
forward and kissed the lips of her dead lover's
old nurse, whose eyes had filled with tears when
she spoke of his death.

How unlucky !' said Mrs. Clanricarde to herself,
feeling so like Sisyphus !

The stone she had so laboriously rolled to the
top had come down again with a thud, and
some of the work had to be done over again.
But it could not be helped, and the main thing
was always secure. Estelle was bound ; and
Anthony, who knew something if not all, was
not indisposed to receive the sacrifice. But he
was evidently desperately annoyed, and he made
his annoyance felt during the whole of the drive
home and for all the evening after.

Meanwhile, Mary felt as one to whom a new
vista in a dangerous path has opened itself. She
did not clearly see her way, but she knew

there was a way which she should some clay see,
and that it was one which would help her.
Estelle Clanricarde was engaged to Mr. Harford,
but she had been in love with Master
Charlie, and she loved him yet. What could
she weave out of that I Who knows ? Something
was sure to come, ' else as she said to
Mrs. Latimer, to whom she told all that had
passed, * never call me Mary again.'

The forfeit was not a very tremendous one,
but it seemed to carry conviction to both the
old lady and her servant ; the former saying :
Lord, Mary, but they did give me a turn ;' the
latter replying : « You see you was ill, Mrs.
Latimer, and when a body is sick one is apt to
have turns.'

At which Mrs. Latimer laughed — for an aged
lady with bronchitis it was a good ringing laugh
and said, as she so often said :

My word, Mary, but you are a brave 'un — as
bold as you please, you are !'

One of us has got to be brave and bold,' said
Mary; 'and if it isn't you, Mrs. Latimer, it's

bound to be me. And it's very well it is me,
all things considered.'

I hope it may end so,' said Mrs. Latimer a
little drily.

CHAPTER XVI.

FRIENDS IN AFFLICTION.

All things come in their turn, and the dreaded
days are as certain as the desired. Slowly,
slowly, but oh ! how surely, the day of her
doom stole on, coming ever nearer till at
last it was there — and poor Estelle had to
undergo the pain of her sacrifice with as much
courage as she could command. All this time
her mother had been indefatigable. She had
never suffered that spiritual intoxication to
wholly pass away, and it had been hard work
to keep it up. The meeting with Mary Crosby
had re-opened old wounds truly, but the fact
had been turned to the advantage of the
moment by the astute diplomatist who could

make all things look as she would have them.
Even the melancholy fact of Charlie's indubitable
death was skilfully used to enforce the
pressing claims of the living. Anyhow, the
wedding-day came and passed unhindered.

At two o'clock the fatal cortege set out for
the church where Estelle Clanricarde and
Anthony Harford were to be made one bone
and one flesh ; and the service was read and the
names were signed without the opposition of
living friend or dead lover. That ' knot had
been tied with the tongue which could not be
undone by the teeth,' and Mrs. Clanricarde
breathed freely once more when the cheque
was placed in their hands which was the price
for their daughter's. The task had been
arduous, the up-hill climb steep and heavy ; but
it was done now, and that place of ' rest and be
thankful' had been reached. The tears she
shed over her daughter were tears from mingled
sources. In part they were from pity, and in
part from that terrible exhaustion, that sense of
reaction, which comes after a strain ; but Estelle
thought them purely from pity, and loved her

mother with a strange and sudden influx of
filial passion for the tenderness she accepted as
genuine.

The marriage was entirely private. Lady
Elizabeth was away, and could not break her
visit to come back even for Estelle and that
bridesmaidship which was pressed upon her ;
and, this being so, Anthony dispensed with the
perfunctory services of a ' best man.' They
went just as they were — the four immediately
concerned ; and there was not a vestige of either
wedding finery or wedding festivity about the
whole affair. They had luncheon before they
went, and they all drove together in the 'Kings-house
Arms' close carriage. Estelle wore her
travelling dress, which was something as near
to black as she could get — a blue as dark as
that which * Bokhara's maids ' wear in memory
of their loved and lost; and Mrs. Clanricarde
was in her ordinary attire. Even the trousseau
had not been got, for the day had been hurried
on as much as possible ; and the minor details
were yet to be filled in. What was wanted by
the three who had the matter more immediately

at heart was speed in completion. The rest was
valueless.

The whole thing passed without a hitch of
any kind — but one little incident seemed to
savour somewhat of mystery. Just before
luncheon the post-bag came in. Estelle had
long given up her private inspection. There
was no use in looking for letters from the
grave ! To-day, however, her mother, searching
the contents, for a brief instant held one in
her hand and looked at her daughter. Her look
and attitude meant plainly : ' Estelle, here is a
letter for you.' With another glance at the
envelope she laid it down among her own, and
drew a sudden breath as if a danger had been
passed. Estelle, a little sullenly knitting, as if
uninterested in the day and its event, did not
see the look nor catch the half-proffered action
of the hand. Neither did she see the look that
passed between her father and mother as Mrs.
Clanricarde rather hastily unfolded the Times
and scanned the ' dead and alive ' with a certain
feverish hurry. Neither, again, did she notice
how her mother took the supplement out of the

room ; nor did it in any way affect her with a
sense of strangeness or of mystery that when
Anthony came in, he and that mother had one
rapid whispered word together. If she had
heard it, her life would have been different.
That word was from him : ' That damned
fellow is alive !' — from her : ' She does not know
it, and never must.'

With this exception, the whole running was
smooth, and the silken cord without a knot or a
kink — that silken cord which to Estelle was the
hangman's noose, and which Anthony intended
should be as the golden chain that in olden
times linked heaven with earth.

After the marriage but little was heard of the
bride and bridegroom. Anthony was never an
expansive correspondent, and Estelle wrote only
once to her mother — a mere address-card in
essential meaning, saying they were at Paris, at
such and such an hotel, and that the weather
was cold and windy. After this no more letters
came, and Mrs. Clanricarde was not anxious to
hear. She thought it best that the young
people should settle down together with the

VOL. II. R

least intervention of outsiders possible ; and as
she knew that Anthony would be goodness
incarnate to his mournful wife, she had no fear
on the head of ill-treatment. Her only fears,
indeed, were for him, not for Estelle. She was
by no means sure that the real trouble of her
life might not come from herself — that she might
not destroy her chances of happiness by showing
ber husband too plainly that she did not
expect him to make it. Let that be as it would,
Mrs. Clanricarde had now nothing on her hands,
if still a little on her mind ; and if Estelle chose
to be that most stupid of all people, a recalcitrant
prisoner, that was her own affair, and she
alone would suffer. Meanwhile, she read
Charlie Osborne's letter — which then she burned
saying to herself she hoped these two would
never meet ; and — rather weakly for Mrs. Clan-ricardo,
a woman who knew life and could
calculate probabilities — she hoped Estelle would
never hear that he was alive. And yet, that
did not seem very likely in view of the love
people have for telling all they know, and proclaiming

unpleasant news through trumpets, not
to say microscopes.

Months passed, and all things at Kingshouse
remained pretty much as they were before.
There was a certain undefined sadness about
Lady Elizabeth which everyone saw and no
one understood ; and the poor omadhaun had a
woebegone look which irritated his father almost
to madness, and rendered the one ten times
more unreasonable and the other ten times more
unbearable than before. Such feeble light as had
ever shone on Caleb's unlucky life was quenched
as it seemed for ever, and his days had sunk
back into yet deeper blackness than erstwhile.
His temporary adoption into society had come
to an end ; and no one now, save Lady Elizabeth
and the Stewart, remembered that he had
once been one of themselves — if always a rank
outsider, yet still in the running. As for Mrs.
Clanricarde, she cut him dead with supreme indifference
to all the facts of the past ; and had a
stranger asked her who that extraordinary-looking
individual was, the chances are she

r2

would have put up her eye-glass and said : ' I
have not an idea !'

Caleb cared little enough for that, save that
he was thereby cut off from hearing of Estelle
from headquarters. But his was a nature which
satisfies itself by thoughts quite as much as by
events ; and he nursed his love as a poem he
was never tired of repeating to himself. It gave
him such pleasure as comes from the music of
lovely words. For, indeed, if we think of it,
the joy of love comes from loving, not from
being beloved ; and where love is large and
selfishness small, there we have the power of
such divine abstraction as Caleb knew — with
whom thought made happiness, and to love
across space was as pure a delight as to have
loved in time and presence would have been.

But if Caleb saw but little of some of those
who, for a brief hour in the day, had ' taken
him up,' and nothing at all of others, he and
Lady Elizabeth drew closer and ever closer
together. It was a queer choice that she had
made of a companion, said the neighbourhood
disdainfully. And was she going to take the

young man for good and all ? If not, she was
doing him an ill-turn by her kindness, which of
course he would misconstrue. And, even if he
did not, it would set him up too high beyond
his natural deserts and inherited station — of all
offences that which a country society forgives
least. Their sniffs and disdains had but little
weight with either Lady Elizabeth or Caleb —
who, by the way, did not know of them. Perhaps
if he had, sensitive and modest as he was,
he would have shrunk back from the lady's
kindness, and have borne his own burden alone.
But she would not have it so. She herself
sought him out, feeling the strangest and most
inexplicable land of sympathy with him —
a sympathy beyond what she had with any
other person in the place. She seemed to
understand him better than she had ever done,
and to have touched a deeper and still deeper
stratum of his nature. His presence, queer as
it was, soothed her. His beautiful nature,
harnessed to such an unlovely personality, was
like a sonnet of Shakspeare's, badly printed and
worse bound. The sonnet was there, and the

divine words breathed and burned through all
the raggedness of type and the inferior boards
of the cover — but the type was truly ragged
and the boards were defaced, and the careless
passer-by would not have given a second
thought to the book, nor sixpence for its
purchase.

One day these oddly-assorted people were
walking in the lane which led to Les Saules and
the sacred wood of poor Estella's now unlawful
shrine. Lady Elizabeth was on horseback, and
Caleb, with his butterfly-net and specimen-box,
was walking by her horse. They had been
talking of everything but the subject uppermost
in the mind of each, till they came to the gate
of the picturesque house, now despoiled of its
greatest charm.

I hope she is happy, Lady Elizabeth,' said
Caleb suddenly. « I doubt it ; but I hope
it.'

Mr. Harford will do his best,' returned the
lady.

Ay, but it is difficult when the love has all
gone another way,' said Caleb. * And it had

all gone with her. I doubt if ever she can call
it back.'

Poor Estelle !' sighed his companion.

Mingled with her pity was a curious kind of
wonder how she could be unhappy with Anthony
Harford to love her, to care for her, to
live with and never more be parted from. And
he so far superior to poor dear Charlie Osborne
in every way ! It was strange. It was too
strange for Lady Elizabeth to reconcile with her
ideas of right assignment in any way.

I It was a queer thing, that announcement of
Mr. Osborne's death,' then said Caleb. ' I have
often wondered who was to blame for it. Could
it have been Mrs. Clanricarde, think you, Lady
Elizabeth?'

I I scarcely like to believe it,' she answered.
It looks like it,' he repeated.

1 1 think she wished the marriage very much,'
then said Lady Elizabeth. * Their affairs were
in a deplorable state.'

Ay,' said Caleb simply. * She would have
given that beautiful queen to the least and
lowest for a fine ransom. But I doubt if any

money will make up to her for what she wanted
and had lost.'

Still, Mr. Harford will be good to her,' said
the lady. ' If anyone could make her happy he
will.'

Could anyone but the one she fancied V said
Caleb.

Enlightened by his own heart he read hers
with more accuracy than his generalized knowledge
of the world would have given him.

I suppose not,' said Lady Elizabeth. ' I wish
I could believe otherwise !'

At this moment, walking moodily along the
lane from the wood where he had been visiting
the old places of meeting — graves now of dead
joys — they came face to face with Charlie Osborne,
looking in his own person more like a
ghost than a living man. Pale, lean, cadaverous,
his handsome face and graceful figure
were like dusky shadows of his former self.
He had loved his faithless Star with all his heart
and soul. He had rested on her love and faith
as a man might rest on a rock ; and, lo ! she
had failed him. And by her failure the whole

world had, as it were, slipped from him. Pare
off all that made him human and not heroic —
take away his pride and vanity, and that
selfishness which is the inseparable companion
of weakness — still the residuum showed a true
and passionate love for Estelle herself, irrespective
of the personal gain and glory of its
return. And her desertion and treachery
touched him deeply and wounded him to the
quick. He alternated between rage and regret
anger and bewailing. Had he not been a
man he would have railed like a woman and
sobbed like a child. As it was, his large, dark,
hollow eyes were suspiciously bright as he
met his former rival and Estelle's chief friend,
and had not the lane been so narrow that
escape was impossible, he would have turned
aside rather than have endured the ordeal before
him.

You here !' cried Lady Elizabeth, with more
than ordinary kindness of tone and bearing.
She had none of that cold manner with which
some old friends meet an unexpected visitor —
a manner as unmoved as if they had met

yesterday, and there was nothing either pleasant
or stirring in the encounter. * When did
you come V

Last evening,' said Charlie.

Why did you not come to see us V she asked
again. ' You know my habits. I am always at
home in the morning, and I should have been so
glad to see you.'

'I have come for only a few hours,' said
Charlie a little sullenly. ' I thought I should
like to see the old place once more, perhaps for
the last time. I did not care to inflict myself on
my friends.'

1 Charlie ! inflict P she remonstrated.

1 Well, perhaps the word is ungracious — at
least to you, dear Lady Elizabeth,' he answered
with a little tremulousness.

6 To all who know you, Mr. Osborne,' put in
poor faithful Caleb, though Charlie had not
taken the trouble yet to acknowledge him,
even by a look. But he bore the impertinence
meekly, and put in his gentle word for Estelle's
dear sake. The man she loved must be in a
way precious to him, and in honouring Charlie

Osborne beyond his deserts he felt that he
honoured her, though less than hers.

'Thank you said Charlie, recognizing the
meaning of this rather clumsily-put compliment.
'Are you all well at Redhill, Mr. Stagger

Yes, thank you, Mr. Osborne,' was the answer.
Father enjoys good health at times, but mother
gets weakly fits at times.'

1 And yourself?' he asked.

Oh, I am always well. I never ail anything,'
replied Caleb.

He had become more and more provincial since
his practical exclusion from society, when his
rough edges were no longer smoothed away by
contact with better breeding.

'When will you come to the Dower House?'
asked Lady Elizabeth.

I am afraid not at all,' he answered. ' I am
going back to London to-night. I want to find
out though,' he added suddenly, 'who put
that lying announcement of my death into the
Times. Was it Mrs. Clanricarde or Mr. Harford V

He pronounced the hated name with a certain
effort as if it would have choked him.

No one knows who it was,' said Lady Elizabeth.
' But I am sure it was not Mr. Harford
she added with emphasis. ' He is not the kind
of man to do such a thing as that.'

If it was the mother ' began Charlie. He

did not complete his sentence nor say what
would follow that contingency. ' I telegraphed
the contradiction as soon as I saw it,' he continued.
' It was in the papers on the twenty-sixth
of April.'

Yes,' she answered.

1 And there ought to have been a letter from
me on the same day,' he continued. ' As soon
as I was able I wrote to her to tell her that I had
been ill, but was recovering. She should have
got it on the twenty-sixth, for I kept note of
time and dates.'

I do not suppose she was allowed to have
that. And perhaps it was better as things
were,' said Lady Elizabeth.

Not better,' he answered fiercely ; ' if it had
prevented this hideous sacrilege. I am sure she
would not have committed this crime if she had
known that I was alive !'

This was one of his thoughts. Another was
that she had voluntarily sold herself, now for her
mother's sake, and now, when he was specially-bitter,
for her own.

She certainly believed you dead,' said Lady
Elizabeth. * I do not suppose she knows that
you are alive now. Her husband would probably
not tell her, if even he knows ; and I am sure
Mrs. Clanricarde would not.'

She shall know, that 1 swear !' said Charlie
excitedly.

Caleb touched his arm with a deprecating
hand.

1 Would it not be better to let her live in
peace V he asked humbly. ' It is done now, and
cannot be undone. Should she not be left to
bear what she has to bear, without more being
added to it V

1 That is my affair, not yours,' said Charlie
haughtily, and the poor omadhaun for a moment
shrank back.

Then, emboldened by his loyal love, and to
spare her whom he loved the faintest thrill of
pain, he said steadily :

Not all your affair, Mr. Osborne. There is a
right and a wrong to everything, and all who
value another have a certain voice in their
matters. We have the right to speak — both
Lady Elizabeth and I — in a matter which touches
the happiness of Mrs. Harford. For we are her
friends too, as well as you, Mr. Osborne ; though
we have not your past ; and we may without
offence deprecate what would give her pain.'

It was scarcely Caleb Stagg who spoke. It
was the hunchback whose wings were free and
whose hump had gone.

« I shall do as I think best,' said Charlie proudly,
unable to meet his former rival on this
higher ground. ' Some day she shall know the
infamous cheat that was practised on her,
and shall recognize all of them, as the scoundrels
they are. Father, mother, husband, friend —
there was not one to warn her — not one to
protect her P

Her friends did not know,' said Lady Elizabeth.
* I was not here ;' and : ' It was evening
post when I heard the news,' said Caleb.

Among you you have broken my heart and

destroyed her life !' said Charlie with a burst of
passion, as he turned abruptly away, feeling
truly the lshniaelite among men — his hand
against every man's — every man's hand against
his.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE Home-coming.

The Harfords had been many months abroad.
A strange instinct of danger kept Anthony out
of England, loitering among Italian towns and
Swiss chalets, where he had his beautiful young-wife
to himself, and where no rocks were ahead
which he did not see. But few people knew of
their whereabouts, and those few who did
would not give the address to inconvenient
inquirers. Mrs. Clanricarde, for instance, was
safe, besides being very rarely written to ; while
of all her friends and acquaintances in Kings-house
Estelle kept up a correspondence with
none. Even Lady Elizabeth had been silently
dropped, and Anthony did not wish things

different from what they were. Jealous and
exclusive, he disclaimed all sympathy with
American ideas touching the freedom of women,
and for his own part would, an' he could, have
kept his treasure as the Afreet kept his — locked
up from the gaze of all men, and sacred to himself
alone.

For himself, he scarcely knew whether he
was happy or not. Estelle had come back to
her more normal state of being. 8 he was no
longer the dry, gloomy, and at times almost
fierce recalcitrant that she had been in the
beginning of her sorrow. She was gentle and
compliant, and seemed to have accepted her
position, with, at the least, patience. But
something had gone from her. Some vitality of
emotion had been quenched, which made her
as apathetic as she was gentle — as dead as she
was resigned. She never expressed a wish nor
made an objection. To whatever her husband
proposed she assented without a word of pleasure
on the one hand, of suggestion on the other. If
he wished to go or to stay it was all one to her ;
and whether he proposed Pontresina or Palermo,
vol. ir. s

she was equally indifferent and equally compliant.


Sometimes, when he held her in his arms,
Anthony felt as if he had married one of those
mythical women of old romance — a being of
appearance only, wanting the real life of humanity.
She seemed to move as in a dream, with
only half her faculties. No beauties of art nor
of nature roused her to enthusiasm — made her
laugh with joy or quiver with that sublimer
delight which is so near akin to tears. She
went through all the churches and all the picture-galleries,
and assented to her husband's Philistines
as she would have assented to the most high-flown
asceticism. When he stigmatized the
pre-Raffoelites, the Francis and Giotto and
the rest, as no better than a redskin's craft, she
said * No ' quite meekly. Had he raved in
Ruskinese of their supreme gloriousness and
immortality she would have said * Yes ' just as
indifferently. She saw nothing that he did not
point out to her, and when she did see it she did
not take it in.

So they wandered over Europe, and Anthony

did his best to warm this lovely statue into life
and re-animate the dead heart with a new love.
It was all in vain. He poured out the treasures
of his own love to utter futility. It was like
bathing in his life's blood the marble feet of
that fated Arabian prince. He might bathe
them as he would, he could not make them
warm or other than marble ! Still, he would
not despair. He believed in time and its power
of working miracles, and he thought that no
woman born of man could for ever resist such
love as his — so patient, so strong, so devoted as
it was. He would wait and he would not despair.
Some day the divine spark would be
given, and then his lovely statue would throb
into life upon his breast. Some day that must
be ; and he could afford to wait.

Meanwhile, his hope had another source.
When her child should be born — their child — that
would perhaps rouse up in her a freer activity
of feeling. For the sake of this new treasure
she would love him who had given it to her,
and the passion of maternity would double
back on itself and create the wifely. He

s2

watched over her with a tenderness, a solicitude,
equalling that of the fondest mother. Had she
been sufficiently alive to feel anything at all, he
would have stifled her with his care — he would
have irritated and oppressed her. As it was,
she accepted it all with her sweet, mechanical,,
unmeaning smile, and thanked him by the pure
instinct of good breeding and her natural grace.
And he — he would not see how that smile was
simply mechanical, how that courtesy was
merely instinctive. His own love created hers
according to his own fancy ; and with this he
made himself content.

Anthony would have stayed still longer abroad
had it not been for this expected birth. He had
not much intellectual impedimenta in the way
of sentiment, but what he had he cherished and
held by. He wished his child to be born at
Thrift. His son, who had to inherit, must seethe
light of day at his own ancestral home : for,
like the French Emperor, he had settled the sex
beforehand in his own mind, and it was as if he
had commanded Nature to obey his will in this
as in other things. Hence, they had to come

home, while Estelle had still strength enough
for the journey.

You will like to be at your own home ?' her
husband said.

He had her hands in one of his, with
his other he smoothed her curling jet-black
hair.

She smiled in her usual way. Her hands
were perfectly passive in his ; her head, a little
drooped forward, neither bent to his touch nor
turned from it.

Yes, if you wish it,' she said.

'And you!'

■ Yes.'

1 You like Thrift ? You remember how beautiful
it looked last year in the early spring,
even though not then in its full beauty ? You
remember that avenue of chestnuts just bursting
into leaf?'

'Thrift?' said Estelle, with a puzzled look.
What avenue V

My darling !' laughed Anthony ; ' don't you
remember the avenue there, where you and I
walked one day after we were engaged, and I

made you kiss me under the old beech-tree?
Have you forgotten?'

A shudder like the shivering of strong fever
came over Estelle.

Oh 1' she said, as if in pain ; ' don't ! don't !'

Have I hurt you V he asked tenderly, releasing
her hands. * Did 1 hurt you by too hard
a pressure V

For all answer Estelle covered her face as if
against some painful sight, still shivering, but
not weeping, not sobbing — only once a slight
moan, as of some one in suppressed pain, showing
that she suffered.

What have I done, Estelle V asked Anthony,
always in anxious fear.

She made no answer. She did not seem to
hear him. Nor indeed did she. Her mind and
faculties were swept away in that one bitter
flood of remembrance when she had fully
realized the step she had taken, and been
forced to give that caress to her master and her
future husband. It was a paroxysm like to
what she had never known since she had 
this mortal deadness of the soul had

settled down on her, and she had existed in
quiescence because only half alive.

But it passed as all things do, and she came
back to her more usual self. Paroxysms are
necessarily transient, and there was no use in
kicking against the pricks ! Charlie was dead ;
she was married ; in a few weeks now she would
be a mother — and she had to live for the sake
of others if not for her own. She made some
lame kind of excuse, which in its way satisfied
Anthony and soothed him — partly because he
wished to be satisfied and was eager to be
soothed. And things went on after this little
outbreak as they had gone before — in the same
quiescence from her and the same tender solicitous
and ceaseless care from him.

Then the home-journey was made, and they
came back to England and soon were re-established
at Thrift. They had no demonstrative
home-coming — no parade of tenantry nor of
school-children — no triumphal arches nor bonfires.
Quietly, as Anthony loved to do all things,
and unobtrusively, as was EstehVs way, they
took up their abode at his old home, where even

Mr. and Mrs. Clanricarde had not been asked to
receive them. They came, however, in a few
days after the arrival; and Estelle received
them just in the same spirit as that in which
she used to go through the Italian galleries
and look at the palaces and churches. She was
neither glad nor sorry, neither excited nor
displeased. When they came to the station,
where she and Anthony had driven to meet
them, she kissed her mother as if she had seen
her yesterday — her father perhaps felt a shade
more warmth in her tepid caress. She did not
remark on their appearance, nor ask of the old
friends at Kingshouse — she made her mother
comfortable in the carriage, and then left the
talking to her and Anthony. When spoken to
she smiled, and answered as if with a certain
effort of will to collect her thoughts and focus
her attention, relapsing into silence the instant
she had said her allotted say. But she was
not actively unhappy, and she looked in good
health — as indeed she was. And with this her
parents had to be content. For that finer
subtler something else which had been killed

in her, that had to go — the main things had
been secured.

Do you not think she is looking splendidly
well V asked Anthony of his mother-in-law,
when they stood for a moment together in the
embrasure of the window, and looked out on
the noble park and stately gardens which
his love and her diplomacy had secured for
Estelle.

Splendid,' she replied. ' You have taken
good care of her, Anthony.'

As of my life !' he said with fervour. ' She
is more than my life to me.'

1 She ought to be a happy girl to have secured
so good a husband,' returned Mrs. Clanricarde
with a smile, flattering, caressing, like the
purring of a cat when she rubs herself against
your knee.

6 She is,' said Anthony emphatically. ■ How
should she not be ? She has everything that
human being can want, and I love her.'

He said this with an accent of pride that was
almost fierce ; but underneath was a certain
want of sincerity and desire to assure himself,

which Mrs. Clanricarde was astute enough to
catch.

Yes, indeed,' she said with the same purring
kind of manner. 'As you say, it would be impossible
not to be happy with all that you have
given her — all that you have done for her. And
I know her so well. I know what a tender,
grateful, responsive nature hers is.'

Anthony's face changed. An expression came
over it that was not pleasant to see. Mrs.
Clanricarde's assurances burnt in him like fire
passing over a wound. His own inner convictions
he could bear and stifle, resolutely
binding them down as a man deals with wild
beasts ; but when it came to this woman touching
that inner sore and prophesying smooth
things where smooth things were not, then he
writhed under the pain, and felt as if he could
have strangled her there as she stood.

We are all conscious of the falsehood with
which we live, striving to believe it truth. We
do not look in the face of the lie all day long
and see nothing else; but we are vaguely conscious
of it always, and sometimes we are

acutely possessed by the sorrow it brings with
it. As now with Anthony. It was hard work
to bear up under the truth. He knew that he
had not won Estelle. For all his love and care,
his passionate desire to gain her heart, his eager
devotion, his very fever of endeavour to win
her, he knew that he had not caught one single
ray of her affection. She endured him because
she was obliged to endure him — because she
had no alternative, no place of refuge from
him ; because, too, she was of a sweet and gentle
nature and she could not belie herself. But she
only endured him on these lines of compulsion.
She did not love him ; she did not care for him
so much as she would have cared for a dog that
had been hallowed by her old lover's hand.
She was utterly and profoundly indifferent to
him at her best moments, and she revolted with
her whole being at her worst.

All this he knew, as he knew that one day he
must die and be buried. But he tried to forget
it; and sometimes did — and to bear it with
manful courage and loving hope ; as also he
did. Yet Mrs. Clanricarde must not touch that

sore, and pretend that things were other than
what they were — that Estelle was loving and
responsive when she was dead and inert.

The clear eyes of the clever diplomatist saw
the whole situation at a glance. She could not
recall her words, and she could not show
Anthony that she had read his heart ; but in the
easiest and most graceful way possible she
added, as an afterthought : ' At present she is
a little languid, and, indeed, I might almost
say, apathetic; but that will pass when her
child is born. I have often seen young mothers
expectant like this.'

Then Anthony's stern bronzed face brightened.
Here was an intelligible basis for hope
a material foothold that he could stand on.

Yes,' he said. ' I suppose so. She is not,
as you say, Mrs. Clanricarde, very lively just at
present, but I suppose it will pass. Indeed, 1
am sure it will.'

So am I,' said Estelle's mother briskly, just
as her daughter came slowly towards her,
saying : ' Will you not go to your room,
mother V as if she had said : * Two and two

make four,' with no more emphasis and no more
animation.

'Her mind is certainly touched!' said Mrs,
Clanricarde to herself, as she went upstairs.
What a dreadful thing, and in her state, too !
Pray heaven she may never know that this
detestable young man is alive ! If she finds it
out — well, there will be a catastrophe, that is
very certain ! And the blame will fall on me.
It always does fall on the mother when a good
marriage turns out ill !'

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE SPIDER AND THE FLY

Hope's tales were false and flattering, as usual.
Estelle's new state of motherhood left her
general condition unchanged. Naturally, she
loved the child ; but she took no more interest
than before in anything else. And she loved
the child in an odd manner — with a jealousy, a
fitfulness, utterly foreign to her former character.
Once when the nurse, thinking to please her
with the inane chatter considered good enough
for young mothers, said that this red little bundle
of flannel and potentialities was like its bronzed
and sinewy father, Estelle put the creature back
into her arms with visible annoyance, and would
not look at it for hours after.

As she grew stronger in health her apathy
seemed to increase. She cared nothing for her
duties as house-mistress and local suzerain, and
did not fulfil them. The house kept itself
between her maid and the cook ; and she neither
knew nor noticed how things went. Society
eddied round her in balls and dinners, tennis-parties
and afternoons, according to its wont.
She seldom went where invited, and she would
not invite in return. She appeared to read as
much as if she had been a sincere student, but
as often as not her book was upside down, and
she would sit for hours without turning a page.
Sometimes she took up a length of embroidery,
but she seldom got beyond the first few stitches,
and these she did as often wrongly as not.
When Anthony spoke to hers he answered him
always in the same gentle way of bare and brief
response, which left him nothing to complain of
save its lifelessness and want of spontaneity.
She never contradicted him nor opposed him,
but she never went before his wish with a
suggestion of her own, and she neither looked at
him when she spoke to him nor returned his

caresses. The only thing that seemed to stir
her to activity of feeling was when he touched
the child. Then her soft brown eyes became
dark and gloomy as with suppressed indignation,
and her pallid face would flush as if her veins
were living fire. But even to this she did not
openly object, much as it cost her to endure
what she felt as desecration ; and her self-control
at such moments was the most conscious act of
her apparent stagnant and unconscious mind.
But if anyone could have opened that window
in her breast through which her thoughts could
be read, what a wild world would have been
revealed! — what mad and feverish plans of
escape with her child to some unknown and
distant land where she could live with him and
her fatal memories, and forget the hideous
slavery into which she had been sold ! She had
always on her person that money so mysteriously
sent to Charlie. Viewed by the light of her
desires it was a bank that would never fail — a
river of gold that would never run dry. If only
she could escape from England, and put Thrift,
her husband, and her hated name for ever behind

her 1 What a volcano raged and burnt beneath
that soft, still, frozen cover ! What a very fierceness
of hatred was masked by that gentle sweetness
and that unresponsive apathy ! And how
well she kept the secret of her heart, and how
perfectly she played her part !

What Anthony suffered, felt, or thought, no one
knew, and perhaps he scarcely confessed to himself.
Nothing could exceed, little could equal,
his exquisite tenderness — his strong and patient
forbearance. He wearied himself with devising
how to interest and amuse his pale and unresponsive
wife. He gave her rich presents,
which she accepted with a forced smile and
feeble thanks, looked at once, then put away
and never looked at again. He proposed excursions,
to which she assented, and whence she
returned as she had gone, like a person half-asleep
whose eyes had taken in nothing of all
they had seen. He read to her, and she did not
know whether what he had read were prose or
poetry, nor what the subject nor the story.
Yet his love survived all this bitter regimen of
drought and starvation; and he sought ever

VOL. II. T

more and more strenuously to win her — to force
open that closed door of her heart and to
establish himself there as its cherished inmate.
He would not confess that he was baffled, and
that he was as far from her love as he had been
from the beginning. Yet, day by day, he grew
leaner, graver, more morose to others, more
irritable, more dangerous to meddle with or to
cross — to her only and to the child showing
grace or tenderness. With Ins heart's blood he
watered the desert sands which gave him back
nothing in return. There was not even the
humblest little flower of love — there was nothing
but barren sand and lifeless rock.

Closely surrounded as she was by this investing
love, Estelle had little or no freedom. Only
on the days when Anthony was forced to attend
to his magisterial duties had she the sense of
comparative liberty and the feeling of release
from a companionship that was as oppressive as
jailerdom — a surveillance which, however loving
it might be, she secretly resented and chafed
under. For, indeed, if Anthony had loved her
less things would have been better between

them. But his love was too strong for her. It
stifled her as much as a gazelle is stifled in the
folds of a python ; and the very means he took
to win were those which further estranged her.
Had he left her more alone her repugnance
would have been at least less active, and she
would not have hated her life with so much
inner heat. But when will the unloved learn
that to woo the reluctant beloved is to kill, not
create — and that the most passionate kisses
ever rained by the living on a corpse will not
bring that corpse to life, though the living die
in the effort ?

One day Anthony went to a rather distant
town where he had to sit, judging cases, and
whence he was sure not to return till night.
Estelle had never been to see Mrs. Latimer or
her servant — Charlie Osborne's former nurse —
since that day when she had gone with her
father and mother and Anthony, then only her
lover. She had often thought of these two
people, with whom the outer edge of her life's
greater circle so strangely touched, but she had
had no power to go there again. Before the

t2

birth of her child the walk had been too far for
her ; she would not have proposed a visit to her
husband ; and she did not choose to take the
carriage. She did not want the servants to
know that she had gone. To-day the opportunity
seemed ready-made to her hand. Her
husband was out for the day ; she had recovered
her strength, and could walk now as she used.
The weather was perfect ; and her aching heart
was always full of the one love — the one
memory — with no room for any other, save that
newly-discovered tract where her child had laid
its little hand. Accordingly, she walked across
the park and down Meads-lane, till she came
to that row of houses standing on the outskirts
of the town and at the extremity of the Thrift
estate, in one of which Mrs. Latimer and May
Crosby lived in their strict seclusion and by no
means overcharged luxury. Estelle knocked at
the door, and Mary, after scanning her in the
mirror set edgewise against the window, went
back to the old lady, and said in an excited
whisper :

• Glory ! it's Mrs. Harford at last ! Pull down

the blind, Mrs. Latimer, muffle up your head,
and keep the room dark. We can do with her.
It's the Lord's mercy she has come !'

Then she went to the door, which she opened
with a face as composed and a manner as set as
if she did not know whom to expect. When
she saw Estelle, that face broke into smiles as
eloquent as caresses — smiles which warmed the
poor dead heart as nothing had done for all these
weary months of pain and loss.

Well, Mary ! How glad I am to see you
again !' said Estelle, shaking hands impulsively
with Charlie's old nurse.

How fast she must have walked ! Her face
was crimson, and her breathing rapid. One
would have said she had run the last half of the
way.

And I am glad to see you, Miss Estelle,' said
Mary, answering back that friendly impulsiveness
with its kind. * Come in, miss — lor, deary
me! — Mrs. Harford, I should have said. But
one forgets. Mrs. Latimer is in one of her better
ways to-day. She'll likely be able to see you.
She will if she can, that I know ; for I have

talked a great deal to her of old times, when I
was Master Charlie's nurse and you and he were
children together. I know she will see you if
she can. So come in, please.'

Thank you ; yes,- I will,' said Estelle, who
had quivered at the old familiar name.

Her wistful eyes were fastened on the clear-cut
resolute face above her. She was conscious of
but one feeling rather than thought. Mary had
held Charlie in her arms ; Mary had loved him ;
he had loved her. She had cared for him and
tended him with even more zeal than she herself
cared for and tended her own little child.
On her rested the reflection of the past glory ;
and she felt that Mary lived in her dead love,
and knew that she would sympathize with her,
if she were told all, as no other human being
did or could. She stood nearer to her than
mother, father, husband, child — this resolute
woman of the people, who had been Charlie
Osborne's nurse.

The woman read to the faintest line the face
that looked into hers with such a passion of
sorrow. She was one of those shrewd mental

detectives who see clearly, because not blinded
by fanciful theories of impracticable virtues and
impossible crimes. To Mary Crosby all frailties
were possible ; and, unlike the more delicate
handling of Mrs. Clanricarde, she did not lament
the tattered condition of the phoenix bird's tail
feathers — she did not believe in the phoenix
bird at all. She took Estelle into the state
drawing-room — the same room into which she
had been taken on that former visit more thana
year ago. And Mary saw how the young
wife shuddered as the memory of that day came
back on her mind.

If I don't make something of this !' thought
Mary, feeling like one tapping all round a
cabinet to find the secret drawer with its hidden
key.

I will go and see if Mrs. Latimer can see you,
miss — Mrs. Harford she then said, with a perceptible
hesitation on the name. Why did she
want to recall her unmarried state to Estelle 1
What ailed her, as the Scotch say, at her present
condition as the wife of Mrs. Latimer's landlord
? Had Estelle been in full possession of her

natural mind she would have seen these ominous
little threads, and would have feared them ; but
she was too pre-occupied to see anything but
her own inner self, or to be conscious of aught
but her own sorrowful thoughts.

In a short time Mary came back. Yes ; Mrs.
Latimer was well enough to see her to-day.
She was only poorly at the best of times, but
she was in her evermore way to-day — the Lord
be thanked ! — for Mary Crosby was devout as
well as devoted — as good a Christian as she
was an attached servant. On which, Estelle
accompanied Charlie's old nurse into the back
room, where, sitting in the dim obscurity of a
darkened chamber, muffled up in shawls and
buried in pillows, sat the tenacious old annuitant,
whose ugly trick of living was keeping the
Clanricardes out of a tidy little income sorely
needed, while adding a few unexpected plums
to poor Charlie Osborne's not too luscious loaf.

This is Miss Clanricarde, ma'am, as was, Mrs.
Harford as is,' shouted Mary to the old lady.
She is that deaf,' she added in a natural voice
to Estelle.

6 Glad to see you, ma'am,' said the old lady,
coughing lugubriously.

1 am sorry you have such a cough,' said
tender-hearted Estelle, far more alive to things
here than she was at her own home — far more
interested in outside matters and persons than
her husband had known her through all those
unsatisfactory months.

Hey ! what does she say V asked Mrs. Latimer
of Mary.

Mary repeated the phrase in her boatswain's
voice, and Mrs. Latimer was made to hear.

It is my grave-cough, my dear,' she answered.
f Your father will soon come into my little
bit of money. I'm not long for this world, I
can tell you, and the Lord will soon have mercy
on my old bones.'

I hope not so bad as that,' said Estelle, with
genuine sympathy in response to the false
appeal — as has been the way of the world ever
since the serpent put on the child's face and
looked at Eve from among the branches of the
apple-tree.

The old woman's keen black eyes twinkled.

Lord love your clear innocent heart !' she
said, and coughed more vigorously than
before.

'Best not let her talk, Mrs. Harford,' then interposed
Mary. ' Talking makes her cough so
bad ! And you see she is an old lady now and
rambles a good deal. She has only half her
senses, as a body might say. Blind and deaf,
and sleeps away half her time, and rambles on
like Thinking the other half. She is bad to do
with at times, is the poor old lady, and so I tell
you. But I do my duty by her, miss, and shall
to the end — your mother may be sure of that.
I do my duty by her, and let her want for
nothing.

4 1 am sure of that,' said Estelle, looking at
Mary with her soft eyes full of love and the
inner light of memory. ' I remember how good
you always were.'

To poor dear Master Charlie V

Yes,' said Estelle, with a quiver in her
voice.

< Ah, but then I loved him ! Who would not V
said Mary. ' He was the very bonniest little lad

and the dearest young gentleman as ever wore
shoe-leather. I never knew his equal!'

'Nor L/ said Estelle, with the frankness of
despair.

There was no reason why she should not
can this incense of fidelity to that dear grave
why she should not keep his memory like a
perfume in her heart.

'That was a queer start, that word of his
death, was it not, Miss Estelle — Mrs. Harford, I
mean V asked Mary.

Estelle opened her eyes. They were full of
tears.

Why V she asked in her turn. ' What was
there queer in it V

4 Why, did you not know V said Mary in surprise.
' It was false news. He is not dead at
all. The back-word came into the paper, let
me see, the twenty-sixth of April, last year —
yes, the twenty-sixth of April. And now this
is August, a year gone, and we have heard no
more about him.'

Estelle started up from her place as if she
had been struck. Her face was white and rigid ;

her eyes were dark and strained ; her parted
lips were as full of horror as a Greek tragic
mask. She looked as if suddenly turned to
stone, but with always the fiery heart of suffering
within the marble body.

The twenty-sixth of April — last year,' she
said slowly.

Yes, ma'am,' answered Mary. ' I have it
here.'

She opened a drawer in the table and took
out a Times newspaper.

'There,' she said, pointing to the 'agony
column ' there is Master Charlie's own words.'

Overcome, beside herself, like one distraught,
Estelle read the words, which she carried to her
lips with a low cry of mingled joy and pain,
then fell prone on the floor as if she had been
shot through the heart.

Now the road's clear said Mary, as she lifted
her up and dashed cold water in her face. ' It
is as plain as daylight, and I was right. They've
sold the poor young thing to this man here, and
she loves Master Charlie as a wife shouldn't
ought. There is a bad day in store for Mr.

Harford and the rest of them ; and I reckon I've
got pepper enough for them now if they come
nosing about us any more.'

My word, Mary, but you are bold !' said Mrs.
Latimer, as she had so often said before. Her
admiration of the younger woman's cleverness
and audacity increased rather than diminished
with each fresh manifestation.

What I put my hand to I don't turn back
from,' said Mary sententiously, as she still busied
herself about Estelle.

At last the girl came out of her swoon and
re-entered the thorny path of consciousness. She
could not now, if even she would, deny the confession
she had involuntarily made. Nature
had forced her secret from her, and the torn veil
could not be replaced. Mary knew her heart,
and so far held her in the hollow of her hand.
But she did not think of this in the light of danger
to herself. She thought only of the woman's
sympathy, so certain because of her own
love for Charlie. She would be pitiful to her —
understanding how another should also love him,,
even though that other were now a wife and

mother. And she would be some one to whom
she, Estelle, could come and talk without fear
or stint. Whenever there was a free day she
would come over to Highstile Lane and talk to
Mary Crosby of Charlie — Charlie, the child
whom she had nursed — Charlie, the man whom
Estelle still loved. But the black wickedness of
those who should have been her best friends —
the cruelty of those who should have cared for
her and protected her ! She saw it all, as
clearly as she saw the words themselves. Her
mother had inserted the lie of Charlie's death that
the way might be free for Anthony. The marriage
had been hastened on with such indecent
hurry that the contradiction might not arrive
meanwhile. It had come on the very day, and
it had been kept from her. At the altar itself
she would have turned back and refused to
become Anthony's wife had she known that
Charlie was still alive. Hoodwinked, betrayed,
entrapped, what faith did she owe to any of
them 1 What right had they to her life ? None !
From this moment she felt herself essentially

free. The past had been before the present, and
her very child had not the claim that Charlie
Osborne had.

The wakening from those long months of mental
lethargy and emotional dreaming had come
with a vengeance ! Burning with fever, strong
with the fictitious strength of mingled outrage
and despair — the armour in which her love had
clothed itself — Estelle felt as if she could have
braved the whole world for the sake of the one
dear love of her life. All she wanted now was
to see him, to hear his voice, to tell him how her
heart had been broken, how her life had been
ruined by the shameful lie which had been
palmed off on her for truth ; but how through it
all she had kept her love and her faith and
constancy substantially intact. They had sold
her body into worse than Egyptian bondage, but
they had not touched her soul, her love, her
heart. All that she had been she still was ; and
the love that had grown with her growth and
had lived through all opposition was still as
pure and true as when they last met and parted.

Ay ! pure and true, for all that hated ring on
her finger and that alien babe at her breast !

Full of these thoughts she went back through
the park to the house she had never adopted asher
home. But, like all timid creatures, she knew
that she must hide what she felt, if she could not
feign what she did not feel. And when Anthony-came
home he found her as he had left her —
silent, quiescent, unresponsive, monosyllabic —
neither pleased with nor averse from — a mere
sweet and patient living corpse, whose love he
poured out his strong heart's blood in vain to
win. But he noticed with the quick eyes of
love that her hands burnt as if with fever, that
her usually pale face was flushed and hectic, and
that her parched lips were dry. He noticed,
too, when he took her in his arms and drew her
to his breast with that tenderness, that infinite
yearning of the unloved seeking to gain what is
denied, that she visibly shuddered and drew herself
away as if she had been stung. He did not
let her see what pain this mute repulse gave
him. As gently, as tenderly as he had taken
her did he now relinquish her ; but over all his

inner being came the deadly sickness which men
call despair — that anguish of impotent fury
which would revenge itself if it could, and which
cannot find the object.

VOL. II. U

CHAPTER XIX.

LIKE A BIRD TO ITS NEST.

Charlie, still lingering at Kingshouse, took that
strange pleasure so much indulged in by the
sorrowful of adding to his distress of mind by
every means in his power. He went over all the
old walks and lived again in the past delusive
pleasures. He was never weary of handling the
skeleton and making it dance like one of Holbein's
Deaths ; of uncovering the grave and looking
at the face of the corpse ; of turning the
knife in his wound. He was indefatigable in
self-torture ; and being already in weak bodily
health, he made himself worse by all this unnecessary
mental fever and fretting. Everyone
pitied him, so pale and hollow-eyed, so

gaunt and sad as he was ; and every one
prophesied for him a speedy rest beneath the
peaceful sods of the churchyard.

Even Mrs. Clanricarde found a compassionate
corner in her heart for the enemy whom she had
disabled. She wished that she could have
secured her own release from debt, and Estelle's
sufficient establishment, by less painful methods
than her daughter's life-long misery and Charlie
Osborne's threatened dissolution. It was very
sad ; but then people are so headstrong and unreasonable,
and will not see things as they are,
nor act rationally ! What business had these
two young people to fall in love as they had
done f They knew the thing was impossible.
It was their folly, not her falsehood, which had
wrought all this mischief; and we must be
responsible, each of us, for our own doings.

Nevertheless, she was sorry to see the poor
boy looked so ill, and wished that she could
have comforted him. But Charlie would have
none of her sympathy; and Mrs. Clanricarde,
with a French shrug of her shoulders, left him
to his fate and called him 'unpayable' — in

U 2

which mysterious word she seemed to find
boundless satisfaction. To be able to cast a
stone when one has done all the wrong is such
a pleasure to the wrong-doer, slinging his pebble
afield.

One sultry summer's day a letter came to
Charlie Osborne — an anonymous letter, in the
well-known handwriting, but with a different
postmark. Hitherto all these letters had been
posted in London ; but this was stamped
Thorbergh. It contained money and these
words :

Come to Thorbergh. You are badly wanted.
Your old nurse, Mary Crosby, lives at 3, Highstile
Lane, and can tell you some things you
ought to know.'

Thorbergh ! the place where his faithless love
had her home. What new delusion was this ?
What meshes were enclosing him ? And who
was his unknown friend who sent him these
sporadic supplies % It could not be she, for
they had come to him before her great wealth
had come to her. It could not be Mary Crosby
herself. How could a poor servant send him

money far exceeding any possible wages or
savings she might have ? Yet the handwriting
was the same ; and the money was sent in the
same way as that to which he had been accustomed
of late years ; and the triple connection
of Thorbergh, Estelle, and Mary Crosby was
clear.

He tossed through the night, wondering, pondering,
and never divining ; and when morning
came he had not made up his mind what it
were best to do — whether he should go and
learn for himself the meaning of the mystery,
or leave it alone as perhaps a snare — perhaps
a deception.

Then his thoughts shifted. Was Estelle unhappy?
Did she want him to help her, to
defend her, to avenge her ? Was she less sinning
than sinned against? Had she been
forced into this shameful union, after having
been deceived into believing it no crime to a
living lover— no infraction of a vital vow I
These thoughts thronged and burned till they
convinced him. He saw neither danger nor
possible fraud in the letter which called him

to the place where Estelle lived. He saw only
that she was in need of him to defend her
against her husband — which was, as comparing
himself to Anthony Harford, as if a nightingale
were to protect a linnet against a hawk. That,
however, he did not stop to consider. The
calculation of relatives touching strength and
power was outside present conditions. Wherefore,
by the afternoon he had his portmanteau
packed, and was off to Thorbergh to
question Mary Crosby, whose name had got so
strangely mixed up in his affairs, and learn
from her, if he could, the meaning of this
mysterious summons.

The next day, as early as was practicable,
Charlie found the house where Mrs. Latimer
lived in such strict seclusion ; and was welcomed
by Mary with shrill exclamations of
wonderment and delight. She had never expected
to see him again, she said — with the
familiarity of old affection holding his hand in
one of hers, while she placed the other on his
shoulder. When she had seen his death in the
paper she had been that grieved she could not

say ! She had put black into her bonnet and
worn a black gown ever onwards till she had
seen the contradiction, and then she felt as if
she must have danced in white ! She did not
look, however, to see him again. How should
she ? What did he know of her, nor where she
was, nor how she was doing, nor aught
about her anyhow ! No ; she did not expect
to see him this side of the grave, and she had
put all her hope and trust into meeting him in
heaven. And then she wiped her eyes with her
apron, as servants do, and Charlie felt his heart
go out to this hard-featured woman who had
been his nurse, and who certainly had done her
duty by him when she had had it to do.

He went into the cold, hard, primly-set best
drawing-room, and there began his cross-examination.
He showed Mary the letter he had
received, and asked her what she knew about it.

Nay, what,' she said in answer, ' I know
nought at all ! If it were the last word 1 had to
speak I'd say it with my dying breath. I know
nought about it anyway.'

But what have you to tell me V he asked

again. « Why should 1 be summoned here V

6 That caps me,' said Mary. ' That's just what
gets over me, Master Charlie.'

Charlie thought for an instant before speaking.
His eyes were turned to the floor ; Mary's
were on his face.

'Do you remember Miss Clanricarde V he
then asked with a certain reluctance. He did
not like to bring her name into the vulgar light
of a servant's quasi-confidence.

'Mrs. Harford as is?' she returned. 'Yes, I
know her well. Mr. Harford is the landlord of
all this lot. He is Mrs. Latimer's landlord ; and
Mrs. Harford sometimes comes to see us.'

Poor Charlie's face changed as eloquently as
Estelle's when she had heard of his continued
existence. He covered his eyes with his hand.
The mystery deepened, but the glory that shone
through its darkness blinded him. Could it
have been she herself who had sent the letter ?
But no ! the handwriting was familiar. It was
connected with those sporadic supplies, and
these were not connected with her. No ; it
was not Estelle who had summoned him, and

not Mary Crosby. Who, in heaven's name,
could it be 1

Mrs. Harford was here only the other day,'
continued Mary in an indifferent voice. ' She
had not heard of your being alive, Master
Charlie — as I am that glad to see. She had not
heard of it till I chanced to tell her.'

No V said Charlie with a shout. ' And then V

6 Well, you see, sir, the shock was almost too
much for her,' continued Mary. ■ She is in poor
health, poor young lady, and looks white and
thin — as white and thin as yourself, Master
Charlie. And when I showed her the paper,
why, she just strike and fainted, even end
on the floor. You were always like brother
and sister, I remember, so she was bound to be
upset — and I should have remembered me intime.'


Charlie got up and walked to the window. His
heart was beating wildly, his eyes were dim, his
head was dizzy. She loved him, then ; loved
him now as much as ever ; and her marriage
had been as he had always believed — forgetting
the baser whisperings of his angry suspicions

a forced marriage founded on a lie. She was
faithful to him still. Dear, sweet, loving and
beloved Estelle ! — faithful, faithful for life and
to death — as he to her !

And now, what was to be done ? He was
here and she was not an hour's walk apart.
He was in the very room of which she had
breathed the air only so short a time ago. He
seemed to feel the fragrance of the flowers she
had worn, to see the glory of the light she had
brought with her. He was in her neighbourhood,
close to her. A turn in the road and they might
meet All Thorbergh was filled with her
potential presence, and Charlie felt as if he
should not be able to rest nor sleep nor shelter
in the house lest he should lose the chance of
meeting her. He was here and she was not
an hour's walk apart ; and yet, were they not
separated as completely as though impassable
mountains and the harvested sea lay between
them ? They were, in fact, farther apart than
when he had been sick with fever in Yokohama,
and she had been free and unfettered at Kings-house.


But they must meet. He must see her, cost
what it might. He owed nothing to the man
who had robbed him of her : nothing to the
society, the superstition, which sanctioned this
sacrilege and called it sacred. He owed himself
only to her, to clear himself from any possible
charge of indifference, carelessness, wrongdoing
anyhow. He owed himself only to her.

He stood in the prim-set parlour of the house
where he had thought to find the heart of the
mystery, but had not — his brain seething and his
blood boiling ; while Mary watched him, and felt
as a chess-player feels when he has made a masterly
move which protects his threatened king
so that no attack can stand.

■ Does Mrs. Harford often come here V then
asked Charlie, when he came back to himself sofar
as to remember that he owed something to
appearances, and that Mary Crosby was not in
his confidence.

Not often, sir. Only when Mr. Harford is
away,' was the answer. ' I fancy he keeps her
pretty tight she added, as a compassionate coda
or afterthought.

Brute !' said Charlie with a groan.

1 A little that way, I think,' said Mary with a
sigh.

Charlie clenched his hands. If he could but
have used them as battering-rams to pound the
life out of that scoundrel !

When was she last here V he asked.

Let me see — this is Friday. Last Monday —
no, last Tuesday,' was the answer.

And she will not be here again V
'Not unless Mr. Harford leaves home for the
day. Then maybe she will slip over here to
have a talk of old times,' said Mary. ' She
seems to look back a great deal,' she added.
Ladies mostly do when they are not well
suited.'

I should like to see her again,' said Charlie,
after a pause.

Why not call, Master Charlie V Mary asked
innocently. ' I am certain sure she would be
fain to see you. She is of the kind to love her
own, and you are like her own — like her very
brother, as one might say.'

I do not know Mr. Harford ; and I would

not care to call at his place,' said Charlie, a little
reluctantly.

He was unfolding his heart more than he
cared, and yet he could not keep it closed.

'No, I see,' said Mary, as demure as he was
reluctant.

Perhaps I shall meet her,' then said Charlie,
moving towards the door. ' I should like to see
her.'

Yes, you'll be sure to meet her,' returned
Mary cheerfully. 'Mr. Harford drives her a
good deal about the country. You'll be main
sure to meet them.'

Confound and curse Mr. Harford !' cried
Charlie, beside himself. ' For God's sake. Mary,
spare me his name !'

1 All right, sir. I have no particular affection
for him myself,' was her answer. * All the same,
Miss Estelle is his wife, you see, Master Charlie,
and a wife is bound to follow her husband's
lead.'

6 I will wring his neck !' groaned Charlie.

Mary looked as she used in olden times when
he was naughty and had to be spanked.

4 Oh fie ! Master Charlie she said, in just the
old tone of reproof. 'What has the poor gentleman
done to you, I should like to know V

'What no gentleman would have done — what
a cur like him deserves hanging for !' shouted
Charlie. ' He has taken the woman I love and
who loves me — and he has taken her by a lie —
and he knew it.'

Mary's face took on its natural hardness
curves and lines of the softest sympathy.

I am sorry ! oh, my, I am that sorry !' she
said, her apron to her eyes and her womanly
sob quite audible. After a time she seemed to
compose herself. ' Master Charlie,' she said,
with the straightness of a sudden thought, ' why
do you not come here to stay, rather than to
the hotel ? There is plenty of room here, and I
could do for you fine. Why not send your luggage
here? You could then stay as long as
you liked in Thorbergh, and no one be a penny
the worse or wiser. We live that quiet, no one
sees or knows what passes here. You, and
even more than you, could have the best bedroom
and this parlour, and you'd be as safe as

if locked up in a church. If you'd like it, Master
Charlie, think of it. You'll find me as good as
my word.'

1 God bless you, Mary ! my dear, good Mary !'
"was the poor young fellow's reply, as, impulsively,
he put his arm round her waist and kissed
her as in his boyish days.

Some vague feeling that this offer might serve
him in good stead filled his heart with hope and
light. He did not know what he thought — he
did not formulate nor arrange his feelings into
words — but he felt that he had a hiding-place if
he wanted it. And perhaps he might.

With another burst of thanks to this servant
of the tough old annuitant, he promised to bring
his portmanteau that evening at dark — to bring
it himself, no one knowing where he went ; and
then he left the house and took the road up
Meads-lane, with full directions from Mary
where to find the park and grounds of Thrift.

More mad than sane, Charlie walked on with
but one hope, one desire, one intention. He
would see her again. The mystery of his summons
ceased to interest him. The source whence

those pleasant little golden showers fell on him
also ceased to interest him. He forgot Mary
and all that life contained, save that one lodestar
of his love — that glorious and beloved Estelle.
He would see her again. He would hear
from her own lips the story of her sorrow and
their sin. He would hold her in his arms and
clasp her to his heart. She was his. She was
not this man's — this border ruffian, this gambler,
this horse-stealer, this rude, rough miner with
one hand on his revolver and the other on a
secreted card. There was not one of all the
ruffians extant — from Jem Bludso to Jack bathurst
— to whom Charlie did not mentally liken
Anthony Harford — the man who had stolen
Estelle from him, and was breaking his own
heart because he could not win hers.

Always in this turmoil of tempestuous sorrow
and longing Charlie went through the leafy lane
till he came to a narrow opening between two
uprights which led into a park. He passed
through and walked on, knowing well enough
where he was. He went on and on, walking
always more rapidly, till he came to the gate of

the private gardens surrounding a stately
mansion, with an upper terrace leading down by
a double flight of steps into the lower grounds.
On this upper terrace stood a woman, dressed
for walking. She was alone. Charlie came up
the drive till he was near enough to see the
face and figure clearly. It was Estelle — looking
far away over the gardens and the park to the
distant Beyond — there, where Charlie Osborne
was somewhere to be found. She was too
much absorbed in her own thoughts to see the
man walking in the shadow of the trees towards
the house. He came close under the terrace-wall,
and then he called her by her name. She
heard him, and bent over the parapet above, as
one who had expected him — as one who had
been waiting for this moment.

'Estelle!' he said. 'My darling! My
beloved !'

With the old light eager tread — the old
suggestion of a bird running to its nest — she
ran down the steps and into the shadow of the
wall, where — forgetting husband, child, her
name of wife, her fair fame, and all the present

VOL. n. X

save that she was his — she flung herself into
her old lover's arms, and sobbed out her soul on
his lips.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.
