OF THE
University
Of ILLINOIS


Llllw

Via

loki.

BY

J. SALE LLOYD,

AUTHOR UF
THE SILENT SHADOW," "RUTH EVERINGHAM," "THE HA2ELHURST
MYSTERY," "ragamuffins," ETC., ETC.,
AND EDITOR OF " SHADOWS OF THE VAST."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1882.

[Ai rights re served. \

strains & richardson, printers, 5, orkat queen street,
Lincoln's inn fields, w.c.

TO
HER DEAR MOTHER

(HEn FJllST Critic, AND EVER KIND Helped)

Cljcse ^agts

ARE LOVINGLY DEDICATED
BY

THE AUTHOR.

VOL. I.

PAGE

CHAPTER 1 1

II . 47

Il . 86

IV. 112

V. 139

VI 161

VII 194

Chapter I.

We Costelions are rather an intricate
family to write about, nevertheless I will
endeavour to tell the story of our lives,
as far as it is known to me, and dear Aunt
Phillis's work among us.

We pride ourselves greatly upon our
blue blood, and hold up our heads because
our family tree carries our name from the
present time back to that of the Conqueror.
I doubt if we are great favourites ; it seems
to run in our natures to be overbearing

VOL. I. B

and intolerant. We are born proud, I
verily believe, and I, being the eldest, have
had some opportunities of judging.

The Costelion babies have always kicked
and screamed as no other babies I have
ever seen, and the small children would go
their own way as soon as their tiny feet
could toddle.

At the time of which I write, we were
still living in our dear old Devonshire
home, some twelve miles from the picturesque
town of Kingsbridge.

No trains came into our lovely country
to disturb us with their noise and smoke ;
the turmoil of railway speed kept far away
from our dear Kingsholme.

No telegrams came near us ; even in
these days of electricity, our tiny world
was calm and peaceful, when we kept our
Costelion tempers governed.

Kingsholme Abbey was the name of the

beloved old place, which had been in our
family for many generations.

It stood out upon the high rocks, a landmark
to those at sea, yet we were sheltered
from the blasts of the wind by ground far
higher, which rose above us covered with
verdant brushwood, ferns, and wildflowers,
where the white-tailed rabbits ran by
thousands, or sunned themselves on the
soft grass.

My father's preserves these were, in
which I have spent many an hour, well
nigh lost among the tangled ivy with my
book, or looking out upon the varied hues
of the sea, while the beautiful golden-brown
pheasants rose at sight of me with
their strange, startling cry.

The soft breezes came to us briny and

refreshing, straight from the open sea, and

from the Abbey windows we witnessed many

a fearful storm, ourselves sheltered and snug.

b2

Before our home lay smooth, mossy,
green lawns and beds of brilliant flowers,
while the arbutus bore its wax-like blossom
and its bright red fruit, and the myrtles
bloomed freely in the open air, and the
oranges and citrons hung their golden
fruits upon our walls, ripened by the summer
sun, and the grass went sloping down
to the rugged rocks, among which were
some winding steps to the water's edge.

We had no sands at Kingsholme, but
the sea washed pebbles and shells were
treasures to us in our childhood, and the
seaweeds, too, we collected and spread out
on the pages of books which we had for the
purpose ; but what we delighted most in
was our boat, which was moored in a little
bay, where the bright shingle lay fine and
many-coloured.

We used no machine when we bathed
at Kingsholme; we all had our bathing-dresses,

the same as are used at French
watering-places, and we girls went out
daily swimming with our brothers in
summer time, and fishing with them, too,
for the matter of that, and paddling with
our pink feet among the white crests of the
waves, or upon the slippery, weed-covered
rocks.

Now that these things are past, I like
to look back on those days in the dear old
home.

How picturesque it was, with its imprinted
grey walls, patches of golden lichens,
and tiny green ferns ! The cetera and
asplenium ruth maria nestled between
the rough old stones ; the polygonum
vulgare and asplenium trichomanes, or
common maidenhair spleen wort, also took
root among its ancient masonry, while the
time-honoured ivy half covered its walls,
and peeped in at the windows ; and the

birds built their nests among the thick-sheltering
leaves, and sang to us all the
summer through, claiming payment in the
cold days of winter, when they found food
scarce, in the shape of crumbs. To the
left of our home lay a large bay, at the
further extent of which was Kingsbridge,
with its many spires, heaven-pointed —
the white houses showing in bright relief
against the dark trees which formed its
background, while on either side of the
broad bay were the dwellings and estates
of our friends and neighbours.

This was our world.

Our own household consisted of my
father, Sir Charteris Costelion ; his mother,
old Lady Costelion ; my brother Charteris
(known among us only as Bob, except
when our father spoke of him) ; Trevelyan,
our second boy, and Florence, our father s
darling, and, indeed, the pet of the whole

family, who came between my two brothers ;
and, lastly, myself, my father s first-born
and least-loved child.

Grandmamma Costelion was a stately
old dame, a Devereux by birth, whose
French mother had been immured in the
Bastile for writing some book, innocent in
itself, but held to be dangerous in those
days, when freedom of thought was not
admissible, and our grand mamma, like her
mother, was a highly educated woman,
who had been known in the literary world
in her day, but that day had long gone
by, and we found her learning somewhat
troublesome to us in her old age.

Our father had been born in our dear
home, Kingsholme Abbey, and had inherited
it from his father, as well as the
baronetcy. He had, however, by no means
always lived there, for he had in his youth
preferred lamp-posts to trees, town to

country. Everyone said Sir Charteris
Costelion was a man made for society, and
in society he lived. Before the death of
his father he had fallen in love with and
had wished to marry a young girl, the
daughter of a Devonshire neighbour, who
was a man of good birth and small means,
but neither family would hear of the
match, although his love was reciprocated.


My grandfather had been a man of
fashion, and had lived far beyond his income
; he could leave his son his name
and entailed estate, but simply nothing
to keep it up on.

He told my father that a rich wife only
could save his name from ruin, and a rich
wife was therefore found for him.

That was my mother and Bob's. She
was, I believe, the daughter of some
wealthy London merchant, and greatly

the Costelions looked down upon her ;
but her money was good, although it
had been earned by trade, and they spent
it.

My father is a handsome man now, but
I am told that he was eminently handsome
in his youth, and people say that my
mother loved him with a rare affection ;
but love does not come at will, and Sir
Charteris never cared for his wife. Three
years after her marriage she died, here, at
Kingsholme Abbey.

I can scarcely remember her. I was
only two years old when I lost her, and
yet it seems to me I have a faint memory
of a beautiful, anxious face, framed in dark,
luxuriant hair, with loving brown eyes,
leaning over me — a pale, sad face, if I remember
it rightly. I think, too, I recollect
that she kissed me, and that my young
cheeks were wet with her tears ; yet I was

only two years old. Perhaps, after all,
these things are merely fancy.

My father says that I am like my mother,
though I am plainer. They all call me
plain, and I suppose I am so.

When I look into my glass I see a
dark-skinned, dark-eyed, dark-haired, dark-browed
girl, with a wistful look gazing
back at me. The face I see is like my
mother's (if I really remember her, and
have not drawn a mental picture of her),
and like her's it is a sad face, wanting
something, surely — what is that something
? Is it love ?

Well, perhaps.

No one cares much for Miriam Costelion,
that I know. Sometimes I am called
'' You brown little girl," or referred to asa
brown patch'' and to add to my sin of
ugliness, I am small, while all the Costehons
are tall and well made.

When I was very young these remarks
made me suffer ; after that they hardened me.

They all used to say I was not a Postilion
; they would not own me. I took
after my mother, and, like her, was only an
Armytage.

I think in those days my mother's memory
was about the only thing really dear
to me, and that I reverenced greatly from
childhood. I have often sat looking out to
sea, and fancying her doing so before me.
The room in which she died I had taken for
my own ; it was only used for lumber, no
one cared to sleep there, and so I begged
for it. I was wondered at and laughed at ;
but as no one else wanted it my request
was granted, and my mother's room became
mine.

My father was fond of Bob because he
resembled himself. He was a thorough
Costelion, although he had the misfortune

of having Armatage blood in his veins too :
but he bore his name and was his heir ; no
wonder my father thought a great deal of
Bob. 1 was fond of him also, but I think
it was because he was my mother s son.

In those days I fear I had not very right
feelings in my heart towards my father,
and indeed towards all of my family. I
was somewhat antagonistic. I resented
their want of love for me ; it made me hard
and unnatural.

As I have said, my mother died — Bob's
mother and mine.

She left my father all her fortune. She
loved him, and withheld nothing from him,
not even to secure on her own children.

My father has spent it like a Costelion ;
but he had only made a small hole in it
during my mother's lifetime, there was
therefore no need of another rich wife to
prop up the tottering honour of his family.

My mother had been sacrificed — that was
enough. So my father offered again to his
old love, and this time her family did not
say him nay, as Kingsholme Abbey had
become his, and his first wife's money was
sufficient to keep it up. And not more
than a year after my mother had been
carried out of the dear old home, another
mistress was brought to reign there.

There is even now a full-length portrait
of my father's second wife at Kingsholme
Abbey. Young as I was, I can well remember
her coming among us. She might
have been born a Costelion herself, with her
curling, scornful lip, and disdainful blue
eyes ; yet she was marvellously handsome.
Her hair was like sun-rays, with a warm
red tinge in it ; her complexion purest
white, with the most delicate bloom.

My father loved his second wife ; he was
strangely tender with her — for him. I have

watched them often strolling arm in arm
down those paths among the flowers where
my mother s coffin had passed, only a year
before, and, child though I was, my heart
was bitter against them, for her sake. He
had never wandered thus with her among
the roses and the myrtle blossoms.

T did not love my stepmother, I know,
nor did my stepmother love me. The first
time she saw me she despised me.

Surely, Charteris, this ugly, dark little
wretch is not your child V she had said, in
her scornful voice ; and I had seen my
father's brow flush with shame of me.

I have never forgotten that, and at the
time I thought I should never forgive it.

But my father s joy did not last very
long : he and his beautiful wife got tired
of the dear old home, and went away to
travel.

It was about two years after their marriage

that the news came to us that she
was dead. She had fallen a victim to
Homan fever at Tivoli. Neither Bob nor I
pretended to be very sorry ; we had never
loved our stepmother, and I know, wicked
as it was, I felt really glad I should not see
her again. We two children had run very
wild in those days when we had been left
alone, and we heard with awe that our
father was coming back to the Abbey, for
we were somewhat afraid of him.

When he arrived he brought an Italian
nurse with him, and a lovely, fair child. It
was my sister Florence ; she was a year old,
but my father had not thought it necessary
to let us know of her birth.

What an exquisite babe she was, like a
tender blush rosebud ; and little as I had
loved her mother, I took the child at once
into my heart, and from our earliest acquaintance
my sister Florence has made me her

slave. It was strange I should care for her
when she so strongly resembled my stepmother,
and that when I heard my father
call us '' beauty and the beast," I still loved
my little sister.

As for my father, he worshipped her ashe
had worshipped her mother before her.
And as she grew she was allowed her own
way in everything; even her father, who
we all feared, gave way to her.

Yes ! Florence was a thorough Costehon !

As I look back upon her childhood, how
many of her proud little ways come to me ;
how well I remember her being presented
with her first prayer-book, and what she
said upon the occasion.

It was no easy matter to get to church
from Kingsholme Abbey. It meant a
twenty-four mile drive ; for my father
always went to Kingsbridge when he was
at home (which was not very often after

my stepmother died), driving there in a
break '' with four fine stepping horses.

When he was away no one went from
our house ; he would have thought it a
most unnecessary proceeding to have out a
carriage to send us. It was quite the right
thing for the head of the family to show
himself every Sunday, but for us it mattered
little whether we went to church
or no.

My father used to take me with him
sometimes, ugly as I was, and Bob too ;
but Florence had never been, she was so
young. She did not at all like being left
behind, and often I stayed too to comfort
her. Father had promised that as soon as
she was four years old she should go to her
first service ; in the interim my little sister
was always asking me to tell her what it
would be like, and I did my best to enlighten
her from my own limited store of
VOL. I. C

knowledge. I told her that there was an
organ, and that a man played upon it, at
which Florence nodded her bright head
approvingly. But, alas ! I never reflected
that the only organ my sister had ever seen
was a hand organ in the streets of Kings-bridge!
I spoke to her of the choir, and
described how little boys, dressed in white,
came out of a room, and walked along, two
and two, and sang. At this Florence
looked thoughtful. She had seen nothing
of that sort ; it was at present a mystery
which was to be revealed the first Sunday
after her fourth birthday, when she was to
be the proud possessor of a prayer-book all
to herself. Many and many a talk we had
about that book, picturing its anticipated
beauties ; and when at length my sister's
birthday came, the book which my father
gave her was far more beautiful than any /
had ever seen, but it did not please Florence.

It was ivory bound, and on its side there
was a cross of brass, under which was
printed *^ Common Prayer."

Now Grandmamma Costelion was a martinet
upon the subject of education, and
even at four years old Florence could read,
and read well, and when she saw these
words upon her prayer-book she burst into
passionate tears.

*'0h !" she cried, " I won't have a common
prayer-book ; I want a hest one I Oh ! it
is unkind of you, papa, to buy me a common
one ! "

Ah ! my sister Florence, you wanted
even the name of the prayer-book to be
changed for you.

The long talked of Sunday came; the
day was fine, and we drove to Kings-bridge.


Florence looked very lovely with the

flush of excitement upon her fair young face.

C2

My father placed her next him, and I sat
on the other side of her.

What a contrast they looked ; this small
creature of four beside that majestic form ;
for my father was some six feet one or two
inches high, broad and well made, with a
proud stern face and a haughty manner.
He was very fond of his little daughter,
but it would have been beneath his dignity
to speak to her, or, indeed, to any one in
church, so the tug at his sleeve was disregarded.


The prayer in the vestry was ended, and
the choristers sang their response, 'tamen''
In a moment Florence was standing upon
the seat, peering over the church with an
eager face. '' Did you hear, papa ? they
said ' coming T "

She was very quiet and interested as
they filed in two and two, but when this
ceremony was over, she exclaimed, *' Why !

they've got their night dresses on, I
declare ! "

I knew she ought not to be standing up
there on the seat, but I was afraid to tell
her not to do it, for Florence always had
her own way.

I could see by my father's face that he
was annoyed, but he would not own a
Costelion to be in the wrong, even though
that Costelion was but a little child.

So he paid no heed to the small rebel,
whose outspoken words made me crimson,
and set Bob off laughing, and caused those
near us to smile. I knelt down and tried
not to look at her ; the organ was playing.
The service began, and for a while she was
still ; then, in a pause, her shrill voice rang
out —

Miriam, what a big organ ! where's
the man who plays it ? "

Oh ! hush, Florrie," then, in a hurried

whisper, I add, "he's behind that red
curtain'*

And where's the monkey ? Is he there,
too % " Bob laughs out ; I stuff my handkerchief
into my mouth, and grow scarlet.
My father turns an angry glance on us,
and with one strong hand I am whisked to
the other side of him into the corner of the
pew. It is me with whom he is vexed —
not Florence. I sit there not daring to
ask for my book ; I am afraid to look up.
I know my father is annoyed with me, yet
why? What have I done? I resent his
anger, and do not listen to a word of the
service — instead I think hard thoughts of
my father, and his want of love for me ; I
shall never forget that scene in church !

After that I preferred staying at home
and wandering in the garden or climbing
the rocks. I loved all nature even in those
days, but I then thought nothing of

nature's God when looking upon the
beauties around me.

The soft down on the butterfly's wing
was to me very beautiful and marvellous,
but it did not suggest to me the gentleness
of the Great Maker.

I used to watch the storms at sea, and
the lightning gliding serpent-like along the
water, and I thought them grand and
glorious, but failed to see in them the
power of God.

Now, each tree and flower, each bird and
gauzy-winged summer fly, each wondrous
snoT\^ake and crystal dewdrop, speaks tome
of its maker. And for all that is better
in me since those days, I have to thank
Aunt Phillis.

But I am anticipating.
I was piecing together the memories of
my childhood, in those days when Aunt
Phillis's sweet face had not entered into

my life. I must take up the thread where
I dropped it, and tell of the change which
came to us in our old home.

My father married a third wife. Why,
I doubt if he could have told you himself.

My second stepmother was a lady in her
own right, so perhaps that was the reason
he married her. She was a silly " feckless "
creature, with no thoughts beyond her
dress and what was the latest fashion.

She had no authority over us children,
and old Lady Costelion kept her under her
thumb. A woman of iron will was our
grand mamma, as we sometimes found out
to our cost.

Well ! Trevelyan was the only child of
the third Lady Costelion, and was named
after her family.

We were not improved in any way by
the arrival of our new stepmother. She
soon wearied of the dear old home, and

longed to be among her fashionable friends
again; to drive in the *'Eow,"and listen
to the unmeaning flatteries of her London
acquaintances. Dear old Kingsholme was
not in her line at all.

Poor Lady Lavinia ! I fear we Postilions
led her a miserable life between us
all ; she could not stand up against our
wild spirits.

We never thought of obeying her in anyone
way.

We of course saw our neighbours, and
called them friends ; we led the society fora
long radius round Kingsbridge. We
were looked up to, no doubt, but most
people were afraid of us and our proud
ways and cutting speeches.

Yes ! looking back, I firmly believe we
Costelions were hated, and I am not sure
we did not deserve it, for we never
thought of any one's pleasure but our

own. We were Costelions, and that was
enough.

I do not care to recall our neighbours of
those days (save one family), they were
nothing to us, nor we to them. But that
one I must speak of

Some half mile down the bay lived
Colonel Armstrong ; he and my father did
not get on very well together, so that we
were never on intimate terms with the
family, who were not Devonshire people,
and only came to live there when I was
about fifteen years of age. I was accustomed
to the management of a boat, but I
did not often go out alone. Bob was generally
ready to accompany me, but to my
great sorrow he had at this period been
sent off to Eton.

So one day I got into the little craft,
and started for a sail by myself
We Costelions have no fear, and no

nervous systems — we were born without, I
think.

I enjoyed the sail out greatly, but the
wind became so strong that I found it hardwork
to manage the boat ; I did my best
to get home, but could not fetch the point
required ; the wind drove me with fury past
the old Abbey house doAvn the bay.

I turned about, jibing the sail ; the wind
caught it, and in another moment I was in
the water, for the boat had capsized. I felt
the immersion, but after that things were
very vague to me. I suppose I must have
been struck in the overturning of my little
boat.

The first fact that I became aware of was
that a kind face was leaning over me, and
the intense gaze of a pair of honest blue
eyes was fixed upon me, and somehow I
felt secure.

I know I did not speak, and I do not

think I had fairly recovered my senses, for
I closed my eyes again without a question
as to why those strong arms were around
me, and I must have relapsed into insensibility,
for when I again opened them I
found myself lying on a sofa wrapped in
fur rugs, while my hands and feet were
being rubbed diligently.

Thank God ! " murmured the owner of
the blue eyes, as I looked about me.

Come, that's better," said a hearty voice,
while a fine soldierly looking man came to
my side and smiled upon me.

Where am I ? " I asked dreamily.
"You are all safe, my dear, and among
friends," answered a gentle-faced woman,
who held my hands between her own, and
chafed them with her soft palm. " You
have had a little accident, but it is all
right now."

I looked at the young man with the

honest eyes, and saw that he was wet
through, and remembered how he had
borne me in his arms.

Yes, I recollect, I upset the boat ; " and
then I turned to him. "Did you save
me 1" I asked.

I was permitted that privilege," he
replied, with a kindly smile.

"You risked your Mfe for mine'' I
answered ; "it was very good of you,
and yet I am not grateful. I think I
am tired of living" (then with energy) —
Oh ! where is the boat, what became of
it?"

I do not know ; I was thinking only of
you."

Oh ! how angry papa will be ; why,
why did you not save it instead of me ? "
I asked passionately.

He leant over me and answered in a low
voice, but the words went straight to my

heart, and many an after-day I heard their
echo.

Because, Miss Costelion, it had no life,
and no immortal soul!'

No one had spoken to me before of my
soul ; his words came to me with a shock,
and for a moment I was silenced ; but then
my Costelion blood arose, and I replied,
Nevertheless, I wish you had left me and
towed the boat on shore."

And you think that would have pleased
your father ? " (in a sad tone).

Why not ? I am ugly ; what does he
care for me?"

'' A great deal, I should say : however, if
it will make you happier, I will try and
rescue your boat;" and before I could
answer him he was gone, and somehow I
felt as if the sun had ceased to shine ; but
I had not much time for thinking, as the
doctor had been sent for and had arrived.

He ordered me to bed at once, and
undertook to go to my father himself and
explain the accident which had occurred,
and also to promise him that Colonel and
Mrs. Armstrong would take every care of
me.

I grew hot and cold as I listened, for
well I knew that the fact of my being
under their roof would incense him greatly;
but what could I do ? The doctor threatened
me with rheumatic fever if I did not
obey his orders implicitly ; then there was
that sweet motherly face smiling on me,
and I remembered the kind look in those
honest blue eyes, and I determined to
stay.

Mrs. Armstrong put me to bed herself,
and waited on me — no one else entered my
room. I became feverishly anxious about
my preserver — he had saved me, and I had
been ungrateful. I had, even by my words.

driven him forth to risk his life a second
time for me, just on the chance of finding
an old boat, at most worth only a few
pounds. And why ? simply to save me
from the scolding which I well deserved.

The gentle mother's face wore an anxious
look as evening drew on. I longed to ask
if her son had returned ; yet somehow I
dared not, for I felt that my conduct had
been wrong and selfish. At length, when
she bade me good night, I could refrain no
longer, and I whispered my question.

"No, my dear, Herbert has not come
back. Yes ; we feel anxious, but he is as
dear to our Heavenly Father as he is to us,
and He will watch over him."

I was silenced and awed ; I could not
answer her ; I had never heard anyone
speak thus before. She kissed me upon
the forehead and went out quietly, and I
was left alone.

Sleep would not come to me.

Ill every shriek of the wind I heard mj
preserver crying for help.

Many times I sprang out of bed at the
risk of making myself ill, and stood at the
window looking out into the blackness of
the night.

"Oh! if he would only come back!" I
repeated monotonously. *'If he would only
come back ! " But he came not.

The wind howled on, the sea roared, and
I strained my ears to listen to every sound.
At length the morning dawned, and I
crept back to my bed with an aching heart,
and, utterly weary, I fell asleep. When
I awoke the sun was streaming into my
chamber Window, and in its glory stood —
yes ! it was a woman — it was my kind
hostess ; but for the first moment of my
awaking, her sweet gentle face seemed tome
that of an angel.

VOL. I. D

'' Our son has returned, Miss Costelion.
He sends you a message to say that your
boat is safe. It had drifted up the bay,
as he had expected, so he was fortunate
enough to find it, and has towed it to shore."

What could I answer 1

My mind was wearied with much watching
; my body weakened by the fright and
the chill ; my nerves had been strung at
full tension, and the relief from anxiety,
mingled with the unlocked for kindness,
was too much for me. I burst into tears —
I, Miriam Costelion !

"My dear," said Mrs. Armstrong, gently,
what is the matter ?"

"Oh! Mrs. Armstrong, I have been so
wrong, so ungrateful, so wicked, and I am
miserable," I sobbed.

Dear child, if you feel this to be the
case, you need not be unhappy. You know
where to seek and find forgiveness."

Well, yes ! I suppose I knew as much
as that. I had been told so before in
church ; but the words found no response
in my heart.

It did not come easy to me to ask for
forgiveness. I was a Costelion.

Your son has been very good to me'
I said, in a subdued voice.

A bright look came over the mother's
face.

Only we who know him well, and his
God, know homo good," she answered.

Then, after a pause, she handed me a
letter, and went away to get me my
breakfast. I broke the envelope open and
read :

Dear Miriam,

"I am greatly annoyed that your imprudence
should have got you into such a disagreeable scrape.
It is most vexing to me to have you under the roof of
a man whom I do not like, and do not intend to visit.

d2

I desire that you should return home as soon as
possible.

'affectionately yours,

Charteris Costeliox."

Angry tears sprung to my eyes. This,
then, was all that he had to say when his
child had been rescued from a watery
grave ! No, not a Avoid of thanks to my
preserver even ! I would not obey him ; I
would not go home ; I would remain with
my new found friends as long as I liked.
And I tore my father's letter into a
thousand fragments.

I did remain on with Colonel and Mrs.
Armstrong. Had I stayed long enough,
and had they known me better, my visit
to them could not have failed to do me
good. As it was, I saw that they thought
me ill-used, unkindly treated, and to be
pitied, and I accepted their sympathy. I
had not then learned that to gain love a

child must be gentle and humble. That
lesson I was taught by Aunt Phillis. I
saw a great deal of my preserver, Herbert
Armstrong. He was very good to me,
kind and thoughtful ; but I fear I shocked
hun sometimes when I spoke of my father ;
yet his evident sorrow seemed to make
him more tender over me.

One day when I had been talking as I
know now I ought not to have done, on
looking up I saw Herbert Armstrong's
blue eyes fixed upon me.

"Miriam'' he said (they had all learnt
to call me by my Christian name),
'' Miriam, are you right to judge your
father?"

I raised my head, meaning to justify
myself, but when I looked into his
earnest face, I could not; and instead of
answering, my eyes fell before his, while
deep down in my heart I knew he was

right ; but I was too proud to acknowledge
it, so I turned the subject.

Ah ! that was a good time I spent with
the Armstrongss, but it could not last forever
: my father ascertained from the medical
man that I was perfectly well again,
and the same day he wrote his thanks to
my host and hostess, a handsome present
of game accompanying his letter, and within
a few hours the " Abbey carriage " was
standing at the door awaiting me.

My father was very angry with me for
having disobeyed his orders ; then, I considered,
most unjustly so, and I kept up
war with him.

He forbade my going to the Armstrong'
house, thinking they had retained me,
knowing his wishes ; but they did not
know them, and very sure I am that they
would not have asked me to remain had
they been aware of them.

I used to steal away sometimes and go
and sit on a low stool at Mrs. Armstrong's
feet ; but I had seldom much to say when
there, for I knew I was doing wrong.

And often Herbert and I met on the
rocks by the shore, or among the pine trees
and the tangled undergrowth, and walked
together side by side.

I was generally silent then : my heart
seemed very full, yet the truth was veiled
from me.

Herbert Armstrong was no great talker
either, and sometimes I noticed a far-off
saddened look in his face, and wondered at
it, but that was all.

Old Lady Costelion's mantle had descended
upon me. I was very fond of
scribbling. One day Herbert found me
sitting in a cave writing a poem to the
ocean. I tried to hide it at first, but
when I found he really wished to read

it I handed it to him without another
word. He went through it attentively,
and then looked up at me with his rare
smile.

"Miriam, if you will to become an authoress,
the power of writing is in you."

I flushed with pleasure at his praise, and
never complained that he forgot to return
the verses I had composed. But my
happiness quickly faded when he told me
that he was going out to India at once to
join the regiment to which he had been
appointed, for he had made up his mind
to follow his father s profession.

That was our good bye. I did not know
why I was so sorry at his going, or why
our hands lingered in that last clasp, or
wherefore, as I watched his retreating form,
my vision became dim with tears.

-I turned slowly, going homewards as a
wounded bird seeks its nest, not realising

where my hurt was, but feeling its sharp
pain.

I did not see Herbert Armstrong again.
I could not even comfort myself with his
parents — they had gone to see their son
off, after which they were to travel.

Just at this time our life was not greatly
improved by the death of our step-mother's
father. Lord Trevelyan. The estates went,
of course, to the eldest son, and the
Dowager Lady Trevelyan had to turn out
for the new marchioness.

The Trevelyan were very poor, and the
dower settled upon the old lady was not
large. My step-mother wished to have her
to live at Kingsholme Abbey, and my
father consented. He was a generous man,
and thought nothing of the expense, and
not being much at home himself he hoped
his wife would be less lonely if her mother
were with her.

So she came ; and a strange hypochondriacal
woman was Lady Trevelyan. She
seemed to be really in perfect health, but
complained of every disease under the sun.

She had been a beauty in her time ; but
her day had long gone by, and she was
brown and thin.

We made a great trouble of having the
old lady among us ; but then we hardly
knew what trouble was : we still had the
lesson to learn, and this is how it came
to us.

One morning the post-bag was brought
in as usual and laid on the breakfast table
beside my father's plate. He opened it
and distributed the letters.

There was one for Lady Costelion — I
mean our grand mamma — and one for Lady
Trevelyan, and several for himself

It was easy to see that some great blow
had fallen upon them all three, and it was

strange to note how differently each bore
it. Grandmamma Costelion sat erect as
though turned to stone ; not a word
escaped her Hps, and her eyes had a fixed
hard look in them. My father sprung to
his feet, and gazed wildly about him, but
asked sympathy of none.

Lady Trevelyan's thin brown hands
trembled as she held the fatal missive, and
she made her moan in a wailing, pitiful
voice, " Lavinia, the bank has failed ! We
have lost everything ; and oh ! my dear, I
shall be a burthen upon you in my old age.
Oh ! I am so sorry, Lavinia, my dear — a
marchioness and a beggar ! Well, well, I
have not long to live ; in my state of
health I shall not trouble you long, and
beggar though I am, dear Sir Chart eris is
rich, and he will not turn me out''

'' No, I will not turn you out " — from
my father — '' but I too have lost all ! "

"You. How'

The bank failure which has ruined you
has done the same to me' answered my
father, with dignity.

"Oh! what will you do, Charteris ? "
asked my stepmother, anxiously.

I shall work, I suppose, if any one will
employ me," said my father, bitterly. " The
Costelions' day is past."

I had not loved my father, but my heart
went out to him in his sorrow. I placed
my small sunburnt hand upon his well-formed
aristocratic white one, and said,
The darkest cloud has sometimes a silver
lining, papa ! " I was afraid when I had
spoken, but he did not answer me. I
looked into his face, it was grave and
thoughtful. I felt for the first time in mv
life proud of my father ; he was bearing his
trouble like a man.

Grandmamma Costehon now spoke.

"I do not wish to be a nuisance to anyone
; I shall go to the Union."

You will go there when I do, mother,
but not before," said my father, firmly.

Well, at any rate we can never be
beggars," said Florence, proudly. " We
shall always be the Costelions of Kings-holme
Abbey, whether you have lost your
money or no papa ; our position is undeniable."


We must leave Kingsholme Abbey,"
said my father, quietly.

Leave Kingsholme Abbey ? leave our
home ? " cried my sister, aghast.

And my heart sank as I listened.

Yes ! Florence ; how do you suppose
I could keep it up ? It is all I have
left. I must take some small house and
let this."

I shuddered.

Let this ! oh ! papa, when the Postilions

have lived here from generation to
generation."

'well, my dear, I don't suppose they
will ever live here again."

No ! some snobs will take the place
who have made their money by candles
or blacking' exclaimed Florence, bitterly.

'* Whoever will give the highest price
must rent it ; that is all we shall have to
live on. The boys must come back from
Eton ; it is a pity, but it can't be helped,"
said my father.

And so the curtain fell upon our old life.

CHAPTER II.

I DO not think there was ever a lovelier
home in all England than Kingsholme
Abbey. It was hard to realize leaving it
when that calamity was but a name to us.

There were many houses doubtless better
and more richly furnished belonging to the
merchant and city princes of the day, but
none could have been more picturesque than
our own, either inside or out. Even the
well-worn carpets had only become softened
and subdued in colour by time. The old
Chippendale furniture in our breakfast-room
would not easily be procured now.

nor the rich dark carved oak of our diningroom,
nor the suite of veritable " Queen
Ann s " which our craving-room contained.

The lights and shadows everywhere to
be found at the Abbey, coming to us mellow
through the diamond vondow panes, would
never be ours to enjoy again in one of the
lath and plaister villas which must be our
place of habitation in future.

I never dreamed how weak I was with
regard to our old home until I knew that
I must leave it. I thought that beincr a
Costelion I could not fail to be strong*, but
I suppose my plebeian Armatage blood
demoralized me. Florence complained
bitterly, and was very angry with everyone
for the misfortune which had befallen
us, but she did not seem to feel as I did
the breaking up of all the dear old associations
of our " dulce domus."

No more should I be able to sit and gaze

out upon the troubled sea, no more picture
my mother seated m the chair which somehow
I had learned had been her favourite ;
no more in fancy see her dear face bending
over the very books in the library which
bore her name, or writings at the little table
which had been hers. All these thoughts
of her must be snapped. I did not feel
that T could think them away from her
presence-haunted rooms. My own bedchamber,
which had been hers, was perhaps
the greatest loss to me. I loved it so
much for her sake. I scarcely remembered
my mother, yet all that had been hers was
very dear to me. Perhaps I might have
been worse even than I was if I had not
had this one shrine at which to worship.

It is born in us, and is a necessity of
our nature to worship something, and my
something was my well-nigh unknown

mother ; but whatever softness there was
VOL. I. E

in me came from thinking of her. There
was not much time for thought, however,
when house-hunting began ; it was indeed
a dreary time.

My poor father worked hard at it, trying
to find a home for us within his means, but
nothing that he saw pleased him. How
should they after Kingsholme Abbey ?
He shuddered as he told us of the gaudy
curtains and carpets, the paper ornaments
in the fire-places, the wax flowers, the
many coloured chintz and cretonnes upon
which his poor, unused eyes fell ; the chairs
upon which he felt it unsafe even to sit
down ; the beds, too narrow to lie in, the
mattresses, which appeared to be filled with
shavings ; the stuffy rooms which seemed
never to be aired, and which invariably
smelt of washing or cooking.

Days and days he spent away from us
looking for some place where we could

make a home. Daily we searched the

papers for houses to let. How well they

all sounded on paper, and what delusions

they turned out. Our dear home was

advertised too, and before long We had an

application for it. Papa was away, so he

was spared what I felt. No one else would

do it, so I had to show the strangers allover

the dear old place. Every cherished

crevice and haunt their prying eyes seemed

to peep into. It made me feel sadly

wicked ; I believe I could have done an

injury to any one of them as they calmly

criticized my household gods.

The objects which were so sacred to me

were nothing to them, and I hated them.

Yet I knew that I was unreasonable and

overstrained. What my father wanted

was to let the place, and these people

seemed willing to take it.

Well, they did take it, furnished just as

^ 2

LIBRARY

it was, and we had only a month to pack
up and to find some other roof to cover our
heads.

Ah ! that was a dreary month. It made
us all older.

Every day seemed to add silver lines
to my father's brown hair, but nothing
lowered his pride ; he was as erect and
majestic as ever, for all he was a ruined
man. Poor father ! vet I know he suffered.

He came home at last, and told us it was
ail settled. We were to go straight away
from the country which we all loved to a
London suburb, and we went.

It was a long and tedious journey, and
we were all fairly worn out before we got
to the end of it.

The boys had left Eton. My father
could not afford to keep them there ; all
that he had to live upon now was three
hundred a year, the rent of our dear old

home. Nearer London it would have let
for double that sum, but only idle .people
who are not making money could afford to
live in such an out of the world place as
Kingsholme.

Well, we had left, and our new life was
begun. The boys were to meet us at Little
Newington Station, and accompany us to
take possession of our future home.

I wonder whether my father took that
house because of its name ? " Devonshire
Terrace " was printed on it in large letters.
It was the middle house of five. There
seemed to be one merit only in it — it was
quite new, and therefore we had no one's
dirt to annoy us.

It had been furnished by its owner tolet,
and had not yet been inhabited ; for
the rest nothing need be said.

There was no smell, either of washing or
cooking, but in their stead that of fresh

paint, varnish, new carpets, and French
posh.

I fear we were not a contented looking
party. We had travelled all night, and
were not in the mood to be in a good
humour, even with a nice house, which
No. 3, Devonshire Terrace, certainly was
not.

Oh ! what a beastly hole," cried Bob.

And what a queer smell," added
Trevelyan.

Papa, how could you take such a
place ? " asked Florence, scornfully.

*' It is very unlike the Abbey," I murmured,
dreamily.

"Oh! Livonia, my dear," whimpered
Lady Trevelyan, "what draughts! what
draughts ! the windows don't fit, I shall
die of neuralgia, and the walls are so damp."

"It is only an overflow from the shoot,"
answered my father, wearily.

Every one seemed to forget that the
trial to him was far greater than to us.

Old Lady Costelion held her head very
high, as though she were inhaling the unpleasant
smells, feeling the damps, and
with every sense condemning the transaction,
but no word escaped her lips, which
were firmly set, and as hard as iron.

Poor Lady Lavinia flushed painfully as
she saw her new home ; and then for the
first time I gave my thoughts and attention
to her, and noticed that when the
flush faded how pale and worn she looked,
and how thin she had become.

Our rooms were soon apportioned to us
and very closely we had to be packed in
our small abode —there was, indeed, scarcely
breathing space, but we had to make the
best of it. There seemed to be literally
nothing to do at Little Newington but to
watch our neighbours. The boys stood with

their noses flattened against the windowpanes
all day long, looking across the small
common " which extended as far as the
station, observing the passing trains, and
the passengers alighting therefrom, and
greatly disturbing me with their remarks ;
for Grandmamma Costelion had taken it into
her head to instruct me daily, and her mode
of teaching had not improved with her
advancing years, though her lessons where
delivered with dignity, and if I did not
profit much from them, she without doubt
enjoyed them vastly.

I wish, ray dear Miriam, you would take
to the study of geometry. '^

'' Geometry, grand mamma, what an idea ;
I don't even know what it really is."

'' It is the science of extension, my dear,
and is employed to consider lines, surfaces,
and solids, as extension is distinguished in
length, breadth, and thickness."

Oh ! Miriam," cried Bob, '' look at that
man's legs coming along here, how I should
like to ask him who is tailor is ! "

"Kino, probably," struck in Florence,
and, by the by, I suppose you will have
to employ him in future, unless there is
some one cheaper."

I'll back you to make unpleasant remarks
against any one I know. Miss Floss'
answered Bob, indignantly.

'* Geometry is not only useful but absolutely
necessary," continued Lady Costelion,
taking no notice whatever of the interruption,
" without geometry how could astronomers
make their observations, regulate
the duration of times, seasons, years, and
cycles, or measure the distance, motion, and
magnitude of heavenly bodies."

"Grandmamma," cried Bob, "do you want
the pattern of a new bonnet — you'll have
to make your own now, I suppose ; by

George ! this one is a wonder, you had
better come and look at it."

But grand mamma's hobby-horse for the
time being was geometry, and she turned a
deaf ear to the subject of bonnets.

I did not want to hear anything about
geometry, and I comforted myself with the
certainty that my relative's memory was
not of the best, and that she would have
forgotten all about it by tomorrow — she
was wont to tell me to make a note of
what she had been saying to me, that she
might take up the dropped stitch, and of
course I never did anything of the sort.

By geometry, geographers show us the
magnitude of the earth, architects are
helped in their constructions, engineers are
assisted in their works ; military men can't
even build their ramparts without it, or
mark out their grounds for encampments,
draw their maps, or plan their forts."

Florence was sitting at the back window,
reading a novel.

Miriam' she remarked, " do you think
the people next door take in washing ?
What a lot of clothes they have hanging
out in the garden ! "

I should think, my dear, they wash at
home; it is cheaper. I suppose we shall
have to do it ourselves, it seems to be the
fashion in Devonshire Terrace."

Why, Miriam, the man with the legs is
the parson, and, by jove! he's coming
here ! "

Well, now you will have the chance to
ask him about his trousers," sneered
Florence.

'seven in music you need geometry''
continued Lady Costehon — the entrance
of the vicar did not stop her, she merely
made him her audience instead of me,
which was some relief to me, though it

seemed to render the poor man somewhat
uncomfortable. It had never occurred to
him to be entertained by geometry before,
most likely.

''So you see, sir, geometry must be most
useful' went on grand mamma, decidedly.

Yes, yes, doubtless, doubtless," he
answered, with a longing look towards the
door.

Your church choir can't do without it ;
they learn to express sounds by lines, that
is, by chords accurately divided— they know
that the chord which sounds octave is
double of that which it makes octave
withal; that the— "

*' Yes, yes ; geometry is a wonderful
science ; a most useful — er — er — I hope
you like Little Newington ! "

"Miriam, my dear, will you call your
father? " said Lady Lavinia, coming to the
rescue.

"Thank you, I should much like to
make the acquaintance of Sir Charteris
CosteHon,'^ replied our new vicar, hurriedly,
as though he feared to let grand mamma get
in the thin end of her geometrical wedge.

Why, bless me ! it's raining hard 1 " I
cried, with sudden interest, " and all those
dry clothes will be wet through ; evidently
the people don t know it ; how cross they
wile!"

It shows your kindness of heart. Miss
Costelion, to think about the little troubles
of your neighbours, and what a pleasure
it is to be able to help others, when such
help is possible ; it is wonderful what we
can do sometimes, if we only try," and the
vicar smiled benignly on me.

"Geometry," began grand mamma, but
Florence cut her short.

In fact, Mr. RadclifFe, you think Miriam
should have gone in to tell them their

clothes were dry, and that the rain was
coming."

"Wel— Think— "

But Florence did not want to hear the
poor man's thoughts.

See ! they have found it out at last ;
Oh ! How they are running ! What a
scramble they are having, they will tear
their things if they don't mind — dear me,
really it's quite exciting."

Poor women, they will get wet ! " said
our pastor, kindly.

"Rain, rain, go away! come again on
washing day!" hummed Trevelyan ; but
Sir Charteris here entered the room, and we
were silent ; even Lady Costelion ceased
her geometry.

If there was one thing more than another
that my father disliked, it was being disturbed,
and next to that he abhorred
visitors, so it was with anything but a

smiling face that he made his appearance
among us, although he received Mr.
RadclifFe, the vicar, with the courtesy
which his office demanded, still that very
courtesy was grave and distant.

*^I hope you like your house," began the
poor parson, nervously, " we consider Little
Newington a very healthy parish; epidemics
are indeed never heard of among us."

"No, the buildings are scattered; you
have plenty of fresh air on these commons,
doubtless, but its salubrity is, I should
imagine, about the only attraction it has to
offer," answered my father, dryly. "As to
the house, you see what it is, and need
hardly ask if I like it."

Now Mr. Radcliffe had been the only son
of a widowed mother, and they had lived
on unusually small means ; and No 3,
Devonshire Terrace, seemed to him quite
a mansion.

For some years he had been a curate in
Wales with a miserable stipend, and then
had, what appeared to him, the great good
fortune to be appointed to the curacy of
Newington, a small town some two miles
distant from Little Newington ; the former
parish having somewhat outgrown itself, it
was decided to make the latter into a self-supporting
district, and Mr. Radcliffe, much
to his delight, had been appointed the
vicar designate, and an iron church had
been erected as a temporary measure,
but after a few more years of toiling and
scraping, a real brick edifice had been built,
and Mr. Radcliffe was a full-blown vicar.

Pie was neither an elegant nor an eloquent
man, but he was earnest and good.
His coats were rusty and ill-made, but a,
kind heart beat under them ; the poor of
his parish loved him ; the middle classes
were apt to laugh at him because he was

awkward, and his trousers were knees ;
and the upper classes — well, none had
arrived at Little Newington previous to
the time when my father took up his
residence there.

This is, however, somewhat of a digression,
and all we knew of our vicar upon
the day of his first visit was, that he was
a plain man, rather under the middle
height, shy and uneasy as to manner,
shabby and badly fitted as to dress, and
that his boots were very thick ; but I
noticed that he had gentle, patient eyes,
and that the expression of his mouth was
sweet ; no other beauty certainly could have
been found in Mr. Radcliffe.

But to return to the conversation which
my aside has broken.

The vicar glanced around — to him the
rooms seemed airy and large ; the new cree
with their bright colours, cheerful,
VOL. I. F

after his own shabby little lodgings in a
much smaller house.

'^ To me it appears a very nice place," he
said, still looking about him.

Bob turned towards me and made a
wry face ; grand mamma breathed seriously,
Hke a war-horse scenting battle, and
Florence burst into a merry peal of
laughter.

Very sorry for your taste, Mr. Radcliffe,
if this is a specimen of it."

You must excuse me, Miss Postilions'*
he answered, the colour mounting to his
pale face, " I don't suppose I have any
taste ; but to me the place appears
bright and fresh and clean ; and to one
who has felt the pinch of poverty himself,
and has been amongst the poorest
of the poor, that seems all that is
needful."

How horrible ! " returned my sister,

heedlessly. " How can you go among such
people ? "

'' If for no other reason, because it is my
duty," said he, gently ; "but, believe me, weare
often rewarded for anything we may
have to suffer ; under all the dirt and
squalor I have come upon good hearts, and
not half so hardened as one might supposes'


Why should they be hardened ? People
like that can't have many temptations,
surely."

Can they not ? " he answered, with his
quiet smile. " Come among them, and see,
Miss Costelion, there is plenty of work todo,
even in Little Newington."

Florence opened her beautiful blue eyes
and looked at him in pure wonder.

/ go among your dirty people ! " she
cried at length. '' No, thank you ! I am

glad to say I am neither a parson nor a

F 2

parson's wife, and it can be no duty of
mine ; " and I am sorely afraid she mimicked
him.

'' I do not approve of ladies as district
visitors' said my father ; " they should be
shielded from the sight of all degrading
scenes. '^

Yet, who can influence like pure-minded
women ? " pleaded the vicar.

"Well! I am not pure-minded, Mr.
Radcliffe," laughed my sister ; " I'm a very
worldling. I like comfort, and I am not
at aJl satisfied with the state of life in
which I am at present placed — you see I
have an inkling of my catechism, although
I doubt if I have ever said it right
through ; and as to this house, which was,
I think, our starting point — I hate it.
There ! "

A saddened look settled upon my father's
face, and he rose and left the room.

*' Florence' I remonstrated, " how could
you be so thoughtless ? surely it would be
as well to make the best of things. We
have a roof over our heads, at any rate,
and that is something. You have vexed
our father and hurt his feelings."

For the moment I had forgotten the
presence of the vicar, and I felt called
upon to offer some explanation of my
words.

*' Trouble comes to every one sooner or
later, I suppose, Mr. Radcliffe ; to us it
has come early, and perhaps it is easier to
bear when one is young and strong. I feel
it must be worse for my father than for
any of us, coming to him late. If you had
seen our beautiful dear old home, however,
you would not wonder that Florence is
dissatisfied. Sometimes I sit now looking
over this bare common, with no land-mark
but the geese to break the monotony, and

think of the dear old Abbey with its grey
stone all ivy-clad, its flowering myrtles,
and its orange and citron blossoms, its soft
green slopes, its tangled undergrowth, and
rugged many-hued rocks and golden shingly
shore, and I can almost imagine the soft
sea breeze is upon my cheeks, the salt upon
my lips — so powerful is fancy '? ^'

"Your home must have been quite a
picture," he said, with kindling eyes, "I
have seen beautiful places and lovely
scenery in Wales."

Our home was an idol ; nothing could
surpass it, I am sure ; and it lay in England's
garden, Devonshire. We had the
open sea ever before us ; one can think looking
out over its broad expanse — within
four walls one's ideas get cramped."

*' Yet our greatest authors have written
their best works in crowded cities, with
the din of the traffic as an accompaniment."

*' I do not think I could," I answered ;
*' I always feel as though my fancies were
gathered from the sounds and scenes
around me; the tinting of a cloud will
colour a poem, I feel sure, or the breath of
the wind."

Miriam always was a star-gazer," said
Florence, with a stifled yawn.

She has brains, at all events, Miss
Flo, and that is more than you can say
for yourself," snapped Bob, who did not
care to hear me run down, being his own
sister.

Of what use are brains to women ? "
asked my sister. '"' Now, if Miriam had
been a man she would doubtless have goton,
as it is " — she shrugged her shoulders
as a conclusion to her speech.

*• As it is," I echoed, " I hope to find
them of some little use band bye. We
have lost our money in this wretched bank

failure, and I trust to earn enough by my
pen to keep myself set any rate."

** Girls had better get married," remarked
Trevelyan, with a grin, '' then their
husbands have to keep them, don't you
see ? "

*' Boys had better talk about what they
understand," answered Florence, hotly.
Grandmamma, I wish you would box his
ears, he richly deserves it. I would, only
his head is so hard I might hurt myself
more than him''

Grandmamma had not been listening tous,
she was thinking of other things, and
self-absorbed ; but now she looked up.

You were talking of these houses, my
dear, were you not ? Do I like or admire
them ? Of course I do neither. As for
the architect who planned them, it is very
easy to see that he had never learnt geometry."


Oh ! grand mamma, I hoped you had
forgotten that' said Florence, crossly. " I
have heard you dinning it into Miriam's
ears until I really don't know what I have
been reading."

*' It is from this science that architects
must derive their just measurements," continued
Lady Costehon, sternly. " Now look
at this room : a perpendicular is a right line
which falls upon, or is raised from, another,
making the angles on each side of it equal.
Can you find me a perpendicular line here ?
I have a correct eye, and I tell you there is
not a straight wall in the house."

'' We're like the leaning tower of Pisa,
gran, I suppose," said Bob; 'but it's
nearly as good as being back at Eton to
hear you lecture."

"Would you like some Eton salt to
make holy water of, Mr. Radcliife 1 " asked
Trevelyan, irreverently.

"I don't think I understand you,"
answered the vicar, looking at him kindly,
'rit is some school joke, I suppose."

No ; it is not quite that," said
Bob; 'rit is asserted that in former
days, in papal times, the Pope gave
an exclusive grant to Eton College to
sell consecrated salt for making holy
water ; but very likely it may not be true."

'' Dear me ! I had no idea that holy
water was salt ; but I conclude it must be,
or there would have been no ground for
the tradition," said the vicar. '' I suppose
you like Eton. I have always wished to
attend the Montemm, but have never been
able to do so."

'•' It is of no use to go unless you have
your pocket well lined; everybody has to
stump up,' you know," Trevelyan blurted
out ; '' have you ever heard the verse about
it?

'' Each passing traveller must halt,
;Must pay the tax, and eat the salt.
You don't love salt,' you say, and storm ;
Look o' these staves, sir, and conforms

'•' We are not quite so bad as that in
these clays, though," interrupted Bob ; '^ the
Eton Montemm is a quieter affair now than it
used to be."

I should like to have seen it when it
was at its prime," cried Trevelyan, excitedly,
'when the chaplain, after reading
prayers, used to kick the clerk down the
hill, and all that."

That was a strange way to serve him,"
said Mr. Radcliffe, unable to repress a smile*'
I am very glad I did not live in those
days, and was not the clerk ; and I am
equally thankful that there are so few
clerks left ; they were the most aggravating
personages, echoing the clergyman's words
a bar behind."

'eyes," said Florence, 'the parsons are

quite tedious enough without the echoes,
goodness knows'

Our vicars colour rose, but he did not
answer her ; instead, he turned to Bob.

I take an interest in old customs. I
should like to hear a little as to the origination
of the Mont em."

Would you like to hear about beating
the bounds, then?" asked Florrie. "Do
you know they humped the poor parson the
other day?"

Yes," he answered, gravely ; "I read
about it, and that they were punished for
it."

'' Well, don't you know," said Bob,
"there are so many versions of old stories,
that it is almost impossible to say which is
the correct one. I suppose we all believe
in the one we like best."

"That is generally the case," remarked
my sister, sotto voce.

"At any rate there is no doubt that it is a
very ancient custom," continued Bob, "and
that it derives its name from the mount
which was afterwards called ' Salt Hill By
some the Montemm is said to have been instituted
by the monks to raise money to enable
them to purchase ground for the college.
Salt Hill or the mount, being the first thus
purchased. Others date it from the time of
Henry the Eighth, and say nothing about
the monks. It has doubtless assumed many
forms since its first institution, but it has
retained a semblance at any rate of the old
ceremony. I have read many amusing
accounts of the ancient Montes, and the
ridiculous orations of the Boy Bishops

They could scarcely be more ridiculous
than a speech delivered by the high sheriff
for the county of Oxford' laughed Mr.
Radcliffe, " of which I have read."

"Oh, do tell us about it," cried Trevelyan,

dancing about like a parched pea on a
gridiron.

I should be happy, but it might bore
the ladies," answered the vicar, looking at
us interrogatively.

"Oh, bother them," said my youngest
brother, politely.

Dont mind us, pray !" added Flo ; *' we
may find it amusing."

Thank you, I should like to hear it," I
answered determinedly, for I was vexed to
see my sister so rude.

Granny had relapsed into the transcendental.


Well, it is a very short story," said the
vicar, and can be told in a few words.
When the sheriff arrived at the Mount of
St. Marie's,' he thus addressed the Oxonians,
being decorated with the gold chain
of office about his neck, and his sword by
his side.

' I have brought you some fine biscuit,
baked in the oven of charity, and carefully
conserved for the chickens of the Church,
the sparrows of the Spirit, and the sweet
swallows of Salvation "

I rather like that," said Bob, with a
grin.

I don't see much in it," differed Florence.
" Do you, grand mamma V

I don't see anything worth looking at
in it, if you mean the house'' replied the
old lady, wedded to her thoughts for the
time-being.

Now, we shall have some more geometry,"
said Bob, crossly. " Why could you
not have left her alone when I am telling
Mr. Radcliffe about the Montemm V

Simply because I am tired of it," replied
Florence, with another yawn. " A year of
Little Newington will send me melancholy
mad !"

I expect we shall have to send for Mr.
Radcliffe to exorcise your blue devils before
long," laughed Trevelyan.

'' What do you think was the origin of
giving self?" asked the vicar. " It is an
emblem of learning or wisdom, I believe."

One of the old swells has left us his
opinion in these words," answered Bob.

' This rite of salt is a pledge or earnest
which you give, that you will strenuously
apply yourselves to the study of good arts,
and as earnestly devote yourselves to the
several duties of your vocation'"

So I suppose when the salt-bearers cry
Salt, salt,' and ask thus for contributions,
they pledge themselves on the part of the
captain of the Eton scholars to do great
things in the way of learning ? "

That is the way it points, I think."

"A point," remarked grandmamma,
striking in, ^' is that which has no parts ;

that is, has no length, breadth, or thickness,
but as no operation can be performed
without the assistance of visible and corporeal
things, we must therefore represent the
mathematical point by the natural one."

*' Grandmamma was once a clever woman,
a regular blue-stocking ; but now she has
reached her second childhood, and makes
hobby horses of her former learning," whispered
my sister, rather too candidly. " It
is awfully trying, I can tell you, to live
with any one whose mind is all angles."

At the term grand mamma started off
again.

An angle is the indirect course of two
lines to the same point ; or rather, it is the
space contained between the indirect course
of two lines to the same point, and there
are many sorts of angles — a right angle and
an acute angle."

*' Yes, gran, and an obtuse angle," re-vol.
I. O

plied Trevelyan, laughing ; " and that was
what my master used to think I most
resembled'

'quite right, my dear, quite right' said
Lady Costelion, approvingly.

'' Do you think Sir Charteris is coming
back V asked Mr. Radcliffe, nervously. " I
don't like to leave without saying goodbye,
but I have a service at five. I fear
I have already intruded upon your time,
and I can only say I have greatly enjoyed
my first visit, and I hope it may not bethe
last. I only trust I have not been in
the way."

'' Oh, no !" replied Florence. " We have
nothing on earth to do ; we may as well
pass the time listening to you, as in any
other manner."

You won't come to church ?" he asked,
hesitatingly.

No, thanks ; enough is as good as a

feast. I have been hearing you all the

afternoon."

You will understand my sister better

when you know more of her, Mr. Radcliffe'

I said gently. '' We have all run wild in

our dear old home, and have said whatever

came uppermost in our minds. It has been

a pleasant change to see a new face among

us, and I am sure Florence thinks so too.

And you must pay papa a visit another

time ; perhaps we had better not call him

back to-day as you are in a hurry."

So he took his leave.

What a creature ! " cried my sister.

'' Miriam, how could you be so civil to him ?

Why, he told us distinctly that he had

been reared in a pigsty ! And did you ever

see such boots ? He must have borrowed

them of a ploughboy ; and such a coat, and

the knees of his trousers !"

I was civil chiefly because you were so

g2

rude, Florence," I answered; 'though as
to that, one should be polite to] every one
in one's own house ; and, moreover, there
is something in Mr. Radcliffe's face I rather
like'

"Miriam!" cried my sister in disgust,
'' what will you tell me next ? All I can
say is, I cant hear him /"

"Whew!" laughed Boh, *' if grand-mamma
were only following you she would
say you had gone off in a tangent line /"

"A tangent line," murmured the old

lady, "is let me see, Miriam, what is

it ? T ought to remember ; why, that is
the first thing I have forgotten to-day !
Ah, my dear, I fear my memory is going."

Never mind, granny, I think I know
as much geometry as that," said Bob,
kindly. "A tangent line is that which
touches some figure without passing into
it."

So it is, my dear, so it is ; you are a
good lad. Bob. Miriam is a sharp girl, too,
but you are more of a Costelion. Charters
does not want my money — Bob, my dear, I
think I shall leave it to you."

Why, gran, you have none ! " shouted
Trevelyan, as though she had been deaf.
"■ Have you forgotten the bank failure ?"

She started and looked at him, then said
stiffly, " My hearing is good, Trevelyan ;
you need not raise your voice ;" and as she
turned away there were tears in her eyes.

How unkind of you to remind her !'' I
muttered, reproachfully. ^' Why can t you
let her forget?"

*'Ah/' replied Florence, "it would be
worth being in one's dotage to succeed in
that !" and throwing down her book impatiently
she left the room.

CHAPTER HI.

Trevelyan stood in his favourite place at
the window pane, beating an accompaniment
with his fingers and singing snatches
of a song of which he was fond, although
he had been asked at least a dozen times
to leave off.

As for myself, I had the power to shut
my mind to external sounds upon most
occasions when engaged in writing, but
upon the present one my head ached, and
I could not fix my attention, and my
brother's noise worried me.

There was a little man,

And he had a little horse ;
And he saddled him and bridled him,

And then he rode across.
Hi ! jingle, jingle, jingle.
Ho ! jingle, jingle, jingle.
Hi ! jingle, ho ! jingle, ha ! "

'•'Is that song much longer?" I asked
in despair ; "I shall never get on with my
writing to-day."

Yes, ever so much," he replied, going
off again briskly : —

And he rode, and he rode.
Till he came to the seaside ;

And there he saw a fisherman.
Awaiting for the tide.

Hi ! jingle, jingle, jingle.

Ho ! jingle, jingle, jingle.

Hi ! jingle, ho ! jingle, ha ! "

What doggrel ! " T exclaimed ; but I
might as well have tried to stop a locomotive.


It's a very pretty story," he asserted.
You listen ; it might do for a plot."

''Oh! fisliemian, oh! fishennaii

Oh ! fisherman, said he,

Have you got a little crayfish

That you can sell to me
Hi ! jingle, jingle, jingle.
Ho ! jingle, jingle, jingle,
Hi ! jingle, ho ! jingle, ha! "

Well, spare us the jingles, at any rate,"
cried Florence, covering her pretty, shell-like
ears with her white hands. " There's
no story in that, at all events."

But not even a jingle would Trevelyan
omit ; we had them all after every verse.

So he gave the man a shilling,
And took the little fish ;
And he took the little thing home.
And popped it in a dish."

^'Eythm, rhythm, Tre," I pleaded. "Do
stop ! "

It is very pretty, my dear," murmured
old Lady Trevelyan. nodding her approval,
and keeping time with her head to her
grandson's singing. " I wish my poor

husband, the dear marquis, were here to
Hasten to you ; he was always fond of music.
Lavinia, my dear, the boy takes after our
family."

Thank heaven for that ! " exclaimed
Florence, earnestly, '' and that there is only
one child by my father's last marriage."

Our stepmother looked very near crying.
"I do not know what fault you have to
find with Trevelyan, Florence," she said,
in a choked voice.

And his wife came in the kitchen,

As she was wont to do,
And up the little crayfish jumped,

And near bit off her shoe.
Hi ! jingle, jingle, jingle,
Ho ! jingle, jingle, jingle,
Hi jingle, ho ! jingle, ha ! "

I think you might leave off knocking
on the window, Tre," said his mother,
timidly ; ^' it really makes me nervous.
Bob, can't you get him to stop ? "

Shut up that row, can't you 1 " cried
Bob, looking np from his book. '•' Of all
fidgeting, that devils tattoo is the
worst'

*' There's only one verse more," replied
his brother, '' and I shall be sure to go
wrong if I don't keep time'

Well, then, don't sing it at all."

That would be a pity, when I've gone
nearly all through, and grand mamma enjoys
it."

'sit's more than we do," grumbled my
sister.

Besides which, Miriam wants the plot
to make a story of," and on he went again.

Bob got up to stop him, but I laid my
hand on his arm.

'rit is the last verse," I laughed, *let
him finish it. If you both make a noise
it will be worse still ; and it will soon be
over."

He will begin another," he answered ;
but he sat down again.

I don't think he knows another all

through'' I replied, " so there is some hope

for us' and Trevelyan was abbacy singing

lustily —

She hit him on the head,

And she hit him on the side,
And at last the little crayfish

Just laid him down and died.
Hi ! jingle, jingle, jingle,
Ho ! jingle, jingle, jingle.
Hi ! jingle, ho ! jingle.
Ha ! ! ! "

He uttered this last word like a war
whoop, and frightened his poor grandmother
nearly out of her senses.

Oh ! my dear, how you have alarmed
me ! Feel how my poor heart is beating.
Lavinia, my dear, you must correct the
boy ; he might have been the death of me,
lie might, indeed. Fetch me a little salvolatile,
my dear."

"Red lavender is better' suggested
Florence.

Brandy is best of all ! Take half a
tumbler raw, gran, and you will be as
rio^ht as a trivet."

Nonsense, Trevelyan ; how can you
suggest such a thing ? " I returned, with
vexation ; " it is disrespectful, to say the
least of it."

'' Oh, ho ! How long have you taken
to preaching, Miss Miriam ? " he replied,
making a grimace at me. '' Since you
have known and admired parson Radcliffe,
I suppose."

/ admire him ! What do you mean? "

I heard you tell Flo so, I declare."

"If you cannot talk sense, I shall not
speak to you," I replied, turning to my
stepmother. " Shall I fetch the sal volatile
for you, Lady Lavinia ? You look tired."

T had never been able to call her mother.

That name, in my mind, was sacred, and
could belong only to one — my own mother.

Thank you, Miriam, if you would. I
am not used to needlework, and it bothers
me."

And as she leant her pale face once moreover
some mending which she raised from
the table, it struck me how very pallid that
face was, and how weary, and I fetched the
sal volatile at once, mixed in a wine-glass,
and administered it to Lady Trevelyan ;
then I took hold of my stepmothers
work.

'' What are you doing, Miriam, my
dear ? " she asked, fretfully. *' I must
finish it''

I am going to finish it for you."

'' You are 1 Nonsense ; you have your
studies and your writing. You have no
time."

I can make time for that."

*' If you can make time, you might sell
the patent of your invention for a good
price, Miriam, and retrieve the fallen fortunes
of the family ! " grinned my young
brother.

^' I wish to goodness you were back at
school," I groaned.

*you cannot wish it more than I do,"
retorted Trevelyan, ^' for it is as dull as
ditch-water here. I feel inclined to go out
and play marbles with the street boys."

I can fancy the governor s face, if he
saw you," returned Bob ; " you would have
a ride on Dr. Kate's grey mare, it strikes
me."

I wouldn't mind that, if I could only
get back to Eton. What a jolly set of
fellows they were ! "

You were always fighting when you
were there."

*' Oh 1 that was only to show our affection,

Bob, and I shouldn't mind a fight
now, to pass the time."

No, I dare say not ; but who on earth
is this coming in at our gate 1 "

It is a demon visitor ; and, good gracious
! what a queer old fish ! And here's
a young demon coming after her, at a
canter, and they have come out of number
one."

"Surely these people are not all going
to have the impudence to call on us," said
my sister, haughtily. " What will papa
say?

*' Fortunately, he is not at home," I
murmured, and in another moment our
visitors were announced.

Our experience of society had never
before introduced us to such people as
Mrs. and Miss Rider.

It was quite useless for us to try and be
stiff and courteous ; we were all decidedly

patronised, Mrs. and Miss Rider shaking
hands with us all round.

Let's begin as we mean to go on, mj
dears," said Mrs. Eider, heartily, "and I
'ope we shall be as good friends as we are
near neighbours. I know all about you
already. My 'husband's very High hup in
the company in which your dear pa is
trying to be made chairman. Mr. Rider
says he's not a man of business ; but then,
as Rider says, his handle counts for something,
and the public like that sort of
thing."

I do not quite follow you," said my
stepmother, civilly.

'' Not fuller me ?— you re off the Ime "? "

Lady Lavinia does not, I think, know
what you mean by my father's handle," I
answered, smiling.

What an innocent 1 "' exclaimed Mrs.
Eider. *' Where have you been brought

up, my dear ? Why, his title — his Sir, of
course. Why, aunt he Sir Chatterton, or
something of the sort ? But, lor bless me,
I never had no head for names, and I took
you for her ladyship at first ; but this
young lady don't call you "ina, only Lady
Lavinia, so I repose you ain't Lady Costelion,
as I thought."

My stepmother is Lady Lavinia Costelion,"
I said, going to her rescue, for
she was looking most uncomfortable.

"Oh, that's it! But I always thought
married ladies took their 'husband's names.
If you'll look at my card, you'll see as how
they've printed it ' Mrs. 'Henry Eider ' —
not ' Mrs. Sarah Rider,' you mark ; and
'what is sauce for the goose is sauce for
the gander,' I've always 'heard. 'Haven't
you, Emily?"

Probably you were not a lady in your

own right," remarked Florence, dryly; and
VOL. I. H

Trevelyan went into such convulsions of
laughter that he nearly upset us all.

That means, being the daughter of a
took, don't it ? I saw the Took of Cambridge
once ; a pleasant-looking man he
was, too. So your father was a took, my
dear. Now, no one wouldn't never think
it who set eyes on you, so quiet as you
look. There's a deal more style about my
Emly there."

"Lady Lavinia's father wasn't a duke,
Mrs. E/ider ; only a marquis, so perhaps
that may account for the want of style of
which you complain ; " said my sister maliciously.


Very likely, my dear ; but none of us
don't think the worse of her for that, you
may be sure, and a marquis holds a certain
position of his own too ; don't he wear a
wreath of strawberry leaves when he goes
to court ? — I think I've heard Rider say so.

And low do you like Little Newington?
You'll find us all very sociable, quite a
'happy little family, as one might say. Nice
friendly ?'(3unions of an evening. My Emily
has a very fine voice, and likes it to be
'heard, so we has a good deal of evening
company, and I'm sure we shall be 'happy if
you'll step in. We don't 'ave suppers, buta
glass of sherry wine and a 'am sandwich
you will always find, and I know you are
musical too, for I often hear singing.
Some one was giving a nice cheerful tone
just now''

You are very kind," said Lady
Lavinia, 'but we do not go out now we
have left Devonshire ; we have had a
good deal of trouble, and my mother is
delicate."

"Poor souls ! " exclaimed Mrs. Rider.

I heard from my 'husband 'ow you had

come down in the world, so I says to my

H 2

Emily, let's be just as friendly, my dear, as
though nothing ad happened. Them bank
failures is horrid things, but 'however people
can be so foolish as to put all their eggs
in one basket I cant imagine. I says to
Rider, ' Now you be sensible my dear, and
place all your eggs in settings, and then
pop 'em under some good 'ens, and you'll
find as how they're all golden eggs, and
will hatch into sovereigns ; ' and I believe
he have took my advice ; and bad 'earth's
a trouble too ; and you don't look over
strong, nor your ma neither."

''I am very poorly," replied Lady
Trevelyan with eagerness," "I have not
had a day's health since we left Kingsholme
Abbey."

"Was that the name of your place.
Miss Costelion?" simpered Emily; "how
romantic it sounds ! "

"Yes! that was our dear old home," I

replied dreamily ; the brown rocks and the
blue sea floating before my mind's eye.

"You should take 'op tea, my dear; 111
send you in some. I always keep a bottle
filled ready, and the flannel is clean and
fresh, so you needn't be afraid of it. A
little drop of spirit warms the inside, and
I've no objection to a glass of beer neither,
but there ain't no fomentation in 'op tea,
and indigestion is a mortal enemy, as I
know, and there's many an evening I have
to unloose my stays, and yet no one can't
accuse me of tight lacing."

*soh! ma!" said Miss Eider, "there's
gentlemen in the room ; you shouldn't."

Gentlemen, nonsense, they wears them
themselves, and that you may be sure."

Now considering the size of Mrs. hider's
waist, I don't think any one could accuse
her of tight lacing !

At length they took their leave.

'' Good gracious ! what must she be like
when her stays are unloosed?" said
Trevelyan, leaning back helplessly in his
chair, in uncontrollable fits of laughter.

She is a very peculiar person ! " murmured
Lady Lavinia faintly.

'^ I hope the hop tea will do me good'
pursued Lady Trevelyan.

Why, there's my father at the gate ;
I wonder what he thinks of our visitors,"
laughed Bob ; and then turning to me,
'' Miriam did you know that he was trying
to get employment ? "

I know that he said he should do so
when our misfortunes first came upon us,"
I answered, 'but he has never mentioned
the subject to me since, nor do I think he
has done so to any one of us."

Then he came in and took an easy chair.

"Poverty makes one acquainted with

strange scenes and strange people," he said

wearily ; '' pray had that person been
calling here — it is impossible that we can
receive such visitors."

I think so too, dear," answered my stepmother
meekly ; " Mrs. Rider is the most
insufferable person I ever met in my life.
She actually called you 'Sir Chatterton
and told me her vulgar daughter had more
style than I have ! "

This was too much even for my father's
gravity, and he joined in the laugh which
became general.

But my dear Charteris, she really was
very impertinent, and talked about our
having come down in the world, and said
you were seeking to be the chairman of
some company over which her husband has
influence."

Dear me ! you don't mean to say that
woman is the wife ^of Mr. Rider ? then, I
am afraid it is a matter of necessity to be

civil to her. Yes ! I am seeking the employment
she named. A Costelion will
have to work at last*'

*ewe shall be quite common people intime,"
groaned Florence, " appointments in
the city, and friendships with the city
men's wives."

They cannot all be Hke Mrs. Eider''
said Bob, comfortingly.

I did not speak, but I timidly slipped
my hand into my father's ; he looked at
me for half a moment, and for the first
time in my life, he kissed me spontaneously.

*' You have good eyes, Miriam," he said
softly," and I think I can understand their
language."

"Do you really mean that we are to
return this woman's visit, Charteris?" asked
my stepmother helplessly.

Yes, it must be done, my dear, I am
afraid; miriam will go with you. I am

surprised to find the man has such a wife ;
he is rather a decent sort of fellow himself."


By George ! here are some more demons ;
carriage demons this time," cried Bob.
'i've had as many as I can stand for one
day — I am off."

*sit is old Noah and his wives," exclaimed
Trevelyan ; "I shall stay to seethe
fun;" and our little maid ushered ina
tall gaunt old man in a long black overcoat.


There was a green patch over one eye,
and his mouth was much drawn on one side.
He wore shoes and white stockings, and
on either side of him stood a little old
lady holding his arm, dressed in the regular
peHsse of former days, made of rich black
satin and trimmed with fur, although the
chills of autumn had not yet overtaken us.
Around their sweet old faces were pure

white caps inside their cottage bonnets.
One, especially, I remarked, for although
certainly over seventy years of age, her
complexion was pink and white as that of
a girl.

What a contrast to Mrs. Rider !

Although so antiquated and wedded to
their own ways, it was easy to see at first
sight that Mr. Montague and his sisters
were of gentle birth.

The two old ladies dropped us each a
comprehensive curtesy, and then turned
to help the gaunt old gentleman to a chair.

'' My brother's eyesight is not sq good as
it was," explained one of the sisters simply,
seating herself near him ; " indeed since
our family has been so broken up, we have
wellnigh giving up visiting ; but we heard
of you through some very dear old friends
of ours who have been neighbours of yours
for many years — Colonel and Mrs. Armstrong.

They wrote most affectionately of
one of the young ladies — Miriam. Was
not that the name, sister '? "

Oh ! I am so glad to have news of
them' I exclaimed eagerly. '*' They were
so very kind to me ; yes ! Miss Montague,
their son saved my life. I shall ever think
of them with gratitude."

My cheeks were glowing, and I was
feeling quite happy, when all at once my
eyes fell upon my father's face. I had
evidently annoyed him, and I felt chilled ;
my pleasure was gone.

Are they all well ? " I asked timidly.
'•' Will you tell them they are not forgotten."
I could not for the life of me help
sending them that little message.

"Yes, Miss Miriam, I will tell them
what you say. I shall be writing shortly."

I longed to ask after my old companion,
my preserver, Herbert, but somehow I

could not. The words stuck in my
throat.

*' Are you neighbours of ours ? '' inquired
my father.

*' No, we live some miles away, but we
were anxious to be among the first to
welcome you, for the sake of the Ann-strings''


We were seven," spluttered the old
man, "and now we are only four. My
poor elder sister was quite too unwell to
accompany us, but sent her apologies by
the girls''

Trevelyan was grinning broadly, and
Florence's eyes were dancing, yet these old
folks were so perfect of their kind that one
could not make fun of them.

Yes, our sister is quite an invalid. We
cannot hope to keep her long. The death
of the other three of our family affected her
acutely ; indeed I may say she has hardly

got over it. She has never been the same
since then, yet the doctor says she has no
actual disease, and she does not suffer."

** Decay of nature," said my father
quietly. " The human machinery will not
last for ever."

Oh, dear no, sir," answered one of the
girls ; " nothing of the sort. My sister is
only eighty-six ! ''

A smile played about my father s mouth,
but he merely bowed politely.

'' Does she ever take hop tea ? " asked
Lady Trevelyan eagerly. " That is just
how I have been feeling ever since we left
the Abbey, and I have been strongly
advised to try it."

No, I don't think she has ever tried
it. "We are all teetotalers," replied Miss
Montague (that is the elder one of the two
present).

Yes, Sir Chart eris, we have none of us

ever tasted the juice of the grape, nor have
either of us married. And we were seven'
mumbled the old man.

Dear me, seven, and all single," echoed
Lady Trevelyan.

Grandmamma Costelion would call that
a heptagonical family," said Trevelyan in a
whisper to Florence, but of course I heard
him, and I am not sure they did not too,
for they soon arose to go.

The wmd gets cold and the evenings
close quickly in now. Brother, I think it
is time we turned homewards'' Then the
two old ladies got one on either side of
their brother, and after a struggle he was
hoisted up from his seat. We all offered
our help, but they said they understood his
ways best, and would not be assisted.

*ewe shall hope to see you all at the
Manor House before long," said Mr.
Montague.

Then we all shook hands, the old ladies
curtsied, and my father went out with them
to the carriage himself, and stood there to
see them off, the sinking sun glinting upon
his grey hair.

Well, papa, what do you think of
them ? " asked Florrie. " I was afraid to
speak lest I should laugh'

My dear they are quite unique, but
they are gentlefolks."

'' They are sweet old things — that is the
two old ladies are*' I ventured to remark.

Seven, and all unmarried ! " repeated
Lady Trevelyan. " I wish they had taken
hop tea — teetotalers too. Well, to be
sure ! "

Is anything the matter, Lady Lavinia?"
I asked. " You look very pale."

No, no, Miriam ; it's nothing new. I
am tired, that is all."

CHAPTER IV.

Many other visitors arrived . All our neighbours
in Devonshire Terrace called upon
us, but as none of them have much to do
with our story, it will hardly be worth
while to enumerate them. Suffice it to
say none were quite so bad as Mrs. Rider,
none so refined in manner as our old-world
acquaintances the Montagues.

In due course the visits had to be
returned, but it was settled that my stepmother
need not trouble herself in the
matter with the two exceptions given.

At first my sister declared nothing would

ever induce lier to enter the houses of such
a set of vulgarians, but as the dull days
dragged slowly by she altered her mind,
and when I put on my bonnet she followed
my example.

'' What ! are you going after all, Flo ? ''
I asked in surprise.

Yes," she answered wearily, ** the
people are atrocious, but I may get some
amusement out of them." So she went.

The houses and furniture looked very
strange to us after Kingsholme Abbey with
our rare carved oak and beautiful old
household goods. Everything was new
and over-bright in colour ; but one idea
struck me very forcibly, that all these
middle-class people appeared very happy,
and another was that they all talked about
their own affairs far more openly than those
with whom we had been accustomed to
associate, and never for a moment seemed

VOL. I. I

to imagine that their long narrations could
be otherwise than interesting to their
listeners ; they also discussed their neighbours
with freedom. People, not things,
made up the sum and substance of their
conversation. In vain I tried other topics,
pictures, books, needlework ; even the
weather flagged, although in every house it
was invariably the opening theme. One *
thing I soon plainly saw, namely, that Mr.
Radcliffe was a great favourite among his
parishioners.

No one had apparently found out the
fact that our position in life being so
different to theirs it would have been
better taste if they had stayed away, and
not sought our acquaintance. Our importance
was evidently measured by the size of
our house, which was undoubtedly smaller
than those of many of our new would-be
friends. Their chief feeling appeared to be

sympathy and a sort of pity for us as
broken-down gentlefolks. '^ Poor souls,
they have seen better days," seemed to bethe
lano:uao:e of all hearts.

T tried to take it as it was doubtless
meant, but it made my sister furious.

Miriam," she said, as we turned homewards,
"I can stand anything but their
pity."

At last my step-mother felt equal to goto
Mrs. Eider's. Florence was told she
might stay at home ; but she declared she
would not miss the scene for the world,
and she accompanied us.

Mrs. E/ider's drawing-room was a better
and larger one than our own, and boasted
of some handsome furniture of a gorgeous
style. The blinds were down and the
windows closed, and the atmosphere was
somewhat stuffy. A smell of cooking pervaded
the house.

I 2

There were too many mirrors, and it was
a mistake to drape their gilded frames with
coloured tissue paper, even though it was
cut in wondrous traceries and designs !
Doubtless the intention was to keep off the
flies ; still the glasses would have looked
better without it ; also, I should have preferred
to see a well-cleaned grate or a fire
laid ready for use, or if the fire-place must
be decked, a few ferns and flowers ; but
Mrs. Rider evidently thought differently,
and had a marvellous haystack of white
and coloured shavings, with sprinklings of
gold and silver, and a very garden of
sprays of artificial flowers in wreaths and
tufts all over.

We waited, sitting there in state, for
some time, then a violent scuffling began
to take place overhead.

That's one boot on," said Florence, as a
sudden stamp was heard.

"And there is the second."

Then she must wear Wellingtons," I
replied, laughingly, " or perhaps Mr. Rider
is at home."

** If he should be, pray be civil to him,
my dears ; your papa wishes it."

The scuffling continued — down tumbled
a lot of things — and Mrs. Eider's deep
voice seemed to be scolding the culprit who
had dropped them.

A vast rusting was then heard upon the
stairs, and Mrs. slider entered, resplendent
in a violet noire antique, which was not
quite in keeping with the pattern of a
crochet antimacassar upon one of her florid
cheeks.

It was evident that we had found Mrs.
Slider napping !

'' I hope we have not disturbed you ;
perhaps you were lying down," said my
step-mother kindly, her eyes straying to

the tracery impressed upoti the face of her
hostess.

'swell, yes! my dear, I incas taking justa
little si-ester, but I was awake before
you arrived, as Eider he came home and
disturbed me. He is taking off his London
smuts, and then he'll come and make you
welcome; and 'ow's the 'op tea doing? I
'ope the old lady feels all the better for it,
I'm suite. I'm always glad to do anything
for anybody."

*'My mother bade me thank you for
sending it," said Lady Lavinia meekly, "and
she thinks it strengthens her."

Here Mr. Eider put in an appearance,
and I was surprised to find him a somewhat
grave, well-informed man ; yet there
was an expression of cunning upon his
countenance which did not prepossess mein
his favour, and before the visit was over
I had made up my mind that I preferred

the wife with all her outspoken vulgarity,
for there was an honest ring about her, and
it was not necessary to look below the surface
to see of what metal she was made.

Just as we were about to leave, " Emily "
appeared. It was plain from her spotless
condition (she was dressed in white,
with blue ribbons) that she had had to
robe her mother first, and then herself

'' Here you are, my dear," cried Mrs.
Eider, with conscious pride. "I'm glad
you've come, for her ladyship was getting
on the fidget to be off; but now you
will sit down and sing us something.
Never of thee ' is a lovely tone : give us
that, my dear."

And Emily, without a particle of " mauvaise
Honte" sat down to the piano, and
with a rich but uncultivated voice bolted
through the song asked for. It mattered
nothing to the Young lady that her accompaniment

was one crash of wrong notes.
Sometimes when the chords were worse
than usual she would recognise the fact
with a 'tut" between the verses or a
merry shake of her auburn curls ; but it
was evident that Em^lj was more than
satisfied with her own performance.

"There's a voice!" exclaimed Mrs. Eider,
in a stage whisper. ''Emly would make
her fortune as a professional singer ; but
there, her pa wouldn't like it."

Yes I your daughter's voice seems very
powerful," said Lady Lavinia.

"To be sure it is, and there's more nor
one in the parish likes to hear her sing,
you may make certain. There's that nice
young man, the \acar. Now it do seem a
sin and a shame that he don't marry. He
is not very well off, to be sure ; but there
are nice gals about who could put something
into the pot and some fuel under it

to set it off a boiling' and her eyes rested
on^'Em'ly."

'' Thank you for your song' said my
stepmother. "And now, Mrs. Rider, we
must say good-bye to you all."

Not good-bye, my dear, only ' reveres
as the monsoon says. I 'ope we
shall be good neighbours."

To my surprise during the whole visit
Florence devoted herself entirely to Mr.
Eider, keeping up a perpetual chatter with
him, much to that gentleman's apparent
delight ; and the next day my father was
elected chairman of the company of which
Mr. Eider seemed to be the managing man.
Perhaps my sister's pleasantries weighed
down the scale in his favour.

On our return home we found Mr. Radcliffe
in our sitting-room with the two
grandmothers, one on either side of him.

Florence began to laugh. " I hope you

are spending a pleasant visit' she remarked
sarcastically.

'' Yes, thank you, I am very happy," he
returned, " Lady Costelion has been giving
me a few hints on the art of speaking,
and no doubt I shall find them very useful."


'soh! no doubt."

"And what have you been doing?" I
asked Lady Trevelyan. *what sort of
advice have you given ? "

"Oh! I was feeling very poorly, my dear,
till Mr. Radcliffe came in ; very poorly, indeed.
I really was quite frightened ;
quite alarmed, I assure you. I was so
tormented. I was trying to sit in the
garden, you know, and those horrible insects
worried me to that degree that I
really got quite vicious. I can't tell you
the state I was in. I used the essence ot
sandal wood, which Lady Woods told me

was infallible. I called Mary and sent her
in for it ; but it was of no use whatever.
Really those creatures are dreadful, and
coming upon the terrible rheumatism from
which I have been suffering, I didn't feel
able to stand up against them, as I told Mr.
Radcliffe. You know I have so little power,
when I put up my hands they fall down
again ; and Mr. E-adcHffe took me in. He
thought I should be better in the house ;
and I told him the doctors had given me
quinine and sulphur, and he advised me to
use ammonia; and so I did, and I am much
better, thank you ; and he has been telling
me of a poor woman in his parish in Wales
who was crippled with rheumatism, so that
her hands and feet had no shape left, and
were dreadful to look at ; and yet she was
always cheerful and happy, and thanking
God for all his mercies to her. But, dear
me, I can't see where they were myself;

but it is a pretty story, and it amused me ;
if only I could forget those horrible insects."


There was a smile playing about the
vicar s mouth which communicated itself to
mine.

Dear me, they must have been something
very disagreeable," I said, after a
pause.

"Oh, dreadful ! Don't they torment you,
my dear? Ah! you are lucky. Horrid
creatures ! "

"Bat what a?^e they?"

"Oh ! horrid insects which fly about and
bite, you know."

"Wasps?"

"Oh, no!"

"Bees?"

"Oh, dear, no!"

"Well, then, they must be gnats !"

They were only midges, Miriam !" came

in grand mamma Costelion's voice; and the
words were thrown out contemptuously.

*only midges!" echoed Lady Trevelyan.
Only midges 1 They are dreadful creatures.
They nearly took away my senses.
Their bites are the most excruciating agony,
I became vicious, I assure you. Didn't
I, Mr. Radcliffe '? Ammonia is a wonderful
remedy, certainly ; but sandal wood cures
some people immediately. Perhaps mine
has lost its virtue. It has been in my
medicine chest for many years. Lavinia,
my dear, when was it that dear Lady
Woods gave me that essence V

I don't know, mamma," she answered
with a wan smile, " I think it was before I
was born."

Dear me, that is many years ago ! why
Lavinia, you must be " —

I placed my hand over her mouth —

** Lady Trevelyan, you should never tell

the age of ladies ; " for I had noticed a
flush rising to my stepmother's face, and an
.expression of annoyance.

'' Have you ever tried quinine and sulphur
? " asked Lady Trevelyan of the vicar.

'* Not mixed, I think," he replied gently,
with a laugh lurking in his eyes.

"I am taking hop tea now, Mrs. Eider
has sent me some ; but the doctors told me
to drink beer. It is rather vulgar of course,
and one could not do it in society, but I
don't think it matters here, does it '? "

Oh, dear no, not at all ; I take it myself"


Ah ! but don't you find it generally sour ?

I always keep a bottle of carbonate of
soda to add to it, if necessary; it corrects the
acidity."

*rand makes the beer taste of pig, dog,
and jackass ! " added Trevelyan, who had
just entered the room; 'rand I have some

news for your grand mamma, you mustn't
drink any more water! An Italian physician
has found out that there are small
leeches in water now, which stick to the
inside, and suck your blood until they
kill you ; they call the disease anaemia.
My dear gran, I hope you have not got
it already; you know you have been complaining
of feeling poorly lately."

"Trevelyan, this is too bad," I cried,
that is not in England at all, and you
know it ; it was in Switzerland — Why try
and frighten your grand mamma, you have
made her quite uncomfortable already."

I don't see, if they are in one place
why they shouldn't be in another," he replied
doggedly ; " and if the Italian chap
were to come over here I'll lay odds he
would find them here too ; but Englishmen
are such fools they go about with their eyes
shut ; so if I were you, gran, I'd be on the

safe side and not take a drop of water. I
don't know if washing in it can affect you,
I'm sure, but I have strong thoughts of
giving it up myself; fancy getting into a
bath full of leeches, you know."

"You have carried your joke far enough,
Trevelyan," — I said with vexation, " pray
leave off talking."

Oh ! I have a lovely railway accident to
tell gran about yet."

Then you won't do it to-day, I can
promise you. Really Mr. Radcliffe it is a
dreadful thing to have two idle brothers at
home all the day long, they are simply torments,
and worry us out of our senses, to
say nothing of the way they are losing
their time. I suppose there is no school at
hand one could send them to."

There is none nearer than Newington,
and the class of boys who go there are
decidedly mixed — I do not think Sir

Charters would like it for his sons, but — "
the colour mounted to his face, and he
continued with hesitation — " / could spare
them a couple of hours daily if they would
come to me and read — as a friend, of course.
I don't take pupils. It would cheer me upto
have young folks about me, and we
should brush up our Latin and Greek together."


"That is kind of you," I said, gratefully,
" and it would prevent the boys from
forgetting all they have learnt ; but are
you sure you have leisure for this good
office?"

It won't be like Eton, but it will be
better than nothing, " confessed my young
brother.

Then you will come tomorrow morning ;
I can give you from nine till eleven — we
have service at twelve."

So that was settled, and he went his way.

VOL. I. K

He is a very nice young man, my dear,"
sighed Lady Trevelyan, "and most feeling,
I can assure you ; he put the ammonia on
for me himself, he did, indeed, and as gently
a woman'

"He is not young, at any rate," said
Florence; "why, he will never see thirty
again, and I should think he is thirty-five.
I wonder where he keeps his mother ; does
she live with him ? "

I don't know, papa did not see her when
he called — perhaps she is dead."

'' It is very good natured of him to teach
the boys," continued my stepmother.

'* I suppose he likes it, or he would not
do it," remarked my sister — " and now we
have only the Noah to call upon. I expect
to find the manor house just like the
ark ; but how are wee to get there ? mamma
can't walk ten miles."

No, dear ! I don't think I could manage

one; we must ask Sir Charteris about it,
perhaps if he called with you girls it would
do."

Florence was standing swinging her
bonnet round by its strings. " Couldn't we
boiTow a trap ? " she said, at length. '* Old
Bider has one ; there is a stable at the side
of his house."

"That is not to be thought of," I answered,
hastily, " where is your pride, Flo ?
we cannot accept favours of these people."

*ewe accept appointments," she replied,
with scorn — '' where is the difference ? and
our father was always called the proudest
man in Devonshire ; poverty and a dull life
cash even the pride out of one, I think. I
intend in future to adopt the Frenchman's
system, who said ' Always I gives so much
trouble as I can, and always I 'pays vot
little as I can.' Oh dear me, what a weary
world it is." And my sister threw lier

bonnet on the table and sunk into a chair,
and I saw that her blue eyes were filled
with tears.

'' Come and get your things off, Flo," I
whispered, and she let me take her hand
and lead her from the room.

When we reached the one we shared, she
flung herself upon the sofa and burst into
a passionate fit of weeping, and for awhile I
let her alone, for when I took her hand in
mine she pushed me away. Poor girl ! She
was little more than a child — sixteen, that
was all — and a spoilt one too.

When her sobs had lessened, I knelt
by her side. "Dear Flo, what is the
matter '? " I asked. " Let me hear your
trouble, perhaps the telling may ease it,
and I may be able to help you, who knows ?"

'' No, no; what good can you do. Can you
give me back the old life ? that is all I
want. It is breaking my spirit to live in

this wretched hole. It seems to be nothing
to you, but I cannot bear it."

'•' Do you suppose it is nothing to mel "
I asked, " do I not see the dear old place
nightly in my dreams. Does it not come tome,
each sweet familiar spot, with overwhelming
memories which crowd my brain."

I wish they did mine," she sighed, '' I
only long for it all."

Florence," I continued, " do you remember
that my mother Lived, died, and was
buried there ; I used not to feel she was
altogether lost to me when I could go and
rest my face upon the green turf which
covered her ; then it seemed so real to me
that we should meet again, and I almost
fancied I could hear her words, ' Lord ! how
long'"

My sister sat up and stared at me. "What
makes you think of your mother, Miriam ?
surely you cannot remember her."

I do not know, I have but indistinct
memories; yet I feel that I really do recollect
her."

Fancies, without doubt — I might as
well draw mental sketches of mine. Miriam,
you are very imaginative''

"Do you not think about your mother
then, Flo ? " I asked, wonderingly.

What is there to think about 1 her
portrait was at the Abbey ; I know what she
was like, and a very handsome woman she
was; and now I suppose our tenants point
her out as one of their ancestresses. As to
her grave, I conclude it is somewhere at
Rome, but I have never inquired''

''I should like to know if I were you,
sis," I answered, softly, '' but the portrait
Alas not left behind. Papa loved your
mother, dear, even before he married mine,
and he gave orders to have it packed and
taken care of in a London storeroom. If

we had had space for it he would doubtless
have brought it here'

The blue eyes increased in wonder. " T
didn't think papa cared for anyone much,"
lie answered.

Oh ! Florence, how can you say so ? he
has made a pet of you all your life, and he
is fond of Bob, too."

Yes ! because he is his heir."

Heir ! heir to what V 1 asked, sadly.

*' Well, his name, and the old place, if to
nothing else. I suppose Bob will have todo
what his father did before him — marry
for money."

It was all true, and Florence did not
mean to be unkind, but her words jarred on
me terribly.

And as to me, the father cares for me
because I am pretty. I am a regular Costelion,
and he is proud of me — you are not,
you see, Miriam ; you must take after your

mother; have you no likeness of her?
Fancy papa having had three wives ! and I
should not be surprised if he has the chance
to get a fourth before long ; Lady Lavinia
looks awfully ill'

Oh ! Flo, don't say so."

Why, Miriam, you can't pretend to care;
you at any rate have never liked her, and I
am sure papa has no affection for her."

"I should not like her to die," I answered,
rather conscience stricken. *' We have
usually got on fairly well, and perhaps
when we have not done so it has been my
fault, and not hers ; I do not think she has
ever been unkind to us, Florence, we ought
to like her."

Oughts don't count for anything," replied
my sister, "and we have never thought
much about her ; but I suppose if she dies
you will canonize her, and we shall have
one saint more."

Pray do not make jokes upon such a
subject as life and death, dear' I urged,
passing my hand caressingly over her beautiful
golden hair.

Do you know, Miriam," she answered,
with energy, '* I think it is much better to
die young, unless one is very happy. Fancy
if one had to drag out forty, fifty, or even
sixty years of existence at No. 3, Devonshire
Terrace, with no one to speak to from
year's end to year s end ; I had much rather
die and have done with it. I would rather
shuffle off my mortal coil,' and "

And what ? " I questioned, looking at
her, reproachfully.

Well, I don t quite know what after
that," she replied, with an uneasy laugh.

What could I answer her ? I could only
wish that my dear old friend, Mrs. Armstrong,
had been near, for she would have
known what to say in her sweet motherly

way, to show her that such thoughts were
wrong. I had a dim sense that our lives
were not given us to be one long hoHday
and gala, but that we should strive to be
useful in our generation ; only I did not
quite see my way, and I felt unable to
frame my ideas into words. So I was
silent.

CHAPTER y.

The summer had passed away. The
autumn tints had been lovely, even at
Little Newington, where the beauty of the
scenery was certainly not a strong feature,
and now the trees were bare and leafless.

November fogs had given place to December
frosts, and the world looked white
and pure with new fallen snow ; icicles
hung from the window panes, and bright
fires burned in the grates.

Florence, my brothers and I, were alone
in our sitting room — the former, with her
slender well-formed feet on the bright bar

of the far from handsome fender, was contemplating
her pretty fur-trimmed shoes
with satisfaction.

'' Eehcs of the past' she sighed ; "I
suppose I shall have to wear plain ones in
future."

I can't see what girls want with all
these fal-lals/' remarked Bob, sententiously.
Why need they make themselves into
such very expensive luxuries ? We don't
want fur round our shoes, and lace and
embroidery upon our linen, and all the rest
of it. Why, when my luggage wont astray
coming from Eton last year, and Miriam
lent me a night-shirt, the bristles round
the neck of it tickled so I could not sleep,
and I had a good mind to cut them off,
there and then."

I am sure I am glad you did not," I
replied, smiling at his idea.

Well ! I suppose I shall get used to it

in time' continued my sister ; '^ but I
would rather be dead than dowdy any day
in the week."

*' Florence," I cried, ** you are always
saying those things ; it is very unkind of
you, and wrong, too."

*^ I am always thinking them," she answered,
wearily, " and it is no worse to
express one's feelings than to experience
them."

I am not so certain of that," I replied,
"and surely you should try and govern
your thoughts ; you are young and full of
health and strength ; it is unnatural for
you to talk so."

*' Are you so very happy, then ? " she
asked, scornfully. " You would have made
a capital parson, you are always ready to
preach."

Come, that's unjust," said Bob. " Miriam
is not a blue light at anv rate, and it

does not prove she is happy, because she
tries to make the best of things ; it is a
pity you don't endeavour to follow her
example, Miss Flo."

Florence took not the slightest notice of
his remarks.

'^Refuseth to hear the voice of the
charmer, charm he never so wisely,"
laughed Trevelyan, whittling at a bit of
stick with his penknife. '' Flo, I'm sculpturing
you in wood. Do you recognize the
likeness ? " and he held up a horrible little
figure head, which he had hacked into
some semblance of human shape. It had
nose, eyes, and mouth, certainly, but that
was all that could be said for it.

Florence glanced at it coldly, as though
it was unseen by her, and went on talking
in the dreamy way which she had affected
of late.

I think," she said, addressing herself

to none of us in particular, " I think it is a
pity that the days of the martyrs are past,
then people had only to differ from the
religion of the period, and they could get
quickly out of all the weariness of the
world; and, I suppose, then they would
have made sure of a good time by and bye,
and their names would never be forgotten.
Generation after generation would hear of
one, and if one happened to be very pretty,
artists would paint pictures of the sad
scenes, and everybody would look on them
with interest and pity, and praise the martyred
one for being so brave and true. It
would be worth dying to be thought so
much of; here we are nobodies."

*' Dear Flo, do not talk such nonsense,"
I urged, " there are thousands of martyrs
Avhose names are perfectly unknown tous."



*' They were not good-looking, then, you

may be sure," persisted ray sister ; " what
a beautiful picture that is of the Christian
Martyr floating down the stream ; it really
would be worth while to drown oneself to
look like that, and go gliding down with
the tide so gracefully. Fancy how the
people would come and look, and wonder,
admire, and pity one. Would it not be
lovely ? "

*' Oh ! very romantic and lovely too, no
doubt," said Bob, brusquely, '''only you
wouldn't look quite so pretty, you know,
if by chance you got turned wrong side

supr

Upon which Trevelyan went into fits of
laughter, and my sister was very angry.

There's no cleverness in being rude,
Charteris, or in being vulgar, either," she
said, severely ; and it was only when she
was very angry indeed that she called my
brother by his real name. 'rit is a pity

that you cannot speak like a gentleman,
and talk sense."

'' There are some subjects which won't
bear talking of at all, Florence," he answered,
somewhat sternly for him. '' We
have had quite enough of this death and
suicide business ; and too much. If I hear
any more of it I shall tell my father, and
on that you may rely. You will go on in
this morbid way until it becomes a monomania,
and the end of it will be that you
will make a fool of yourself, and we have
pride enough left not to wish you to become
a nine days' wonder ; a fine chance for the
penny-a-liners indeed, and a nice prospect
for you to be shut up in a lunatic asylum
for the rest of your life, with none but mad
people to associate with."

They cannot be more disagreeable than
you are I " replied my sister, trying to keep

back her tears.

VOL. I. L

Oh ! if you are going to upset the
water bucket, I am off," cried Bob, jumping
up. '^ Come, Tre, let us go for a walk, we
will take our skates ; we may come upon
water somewhere which is fit to bear."

Oh ! wait a moment," said Trevelyan,
'' I would not lose the present expression
of Flo's face for the world. This carving
will transmit it to generations yet for to
come."

Do it another time, old boy," said Bob,
maliciously ; '' once seen it is not likely to
be forgotten."

It was a way with my sister that when
worsted in an argument, she passed over
the fact unnoticed, and went on with other
subjects, as though nothing had happened,
and I often wondered whether this was
because her feelings were not acute, or
whether she had great power in hiding
them.

On the present occasion she did not,
however, seem inclined to talk, and I was
glad to remain silent, for, like Bob, I was
somewhat vexed by her persistent nonsense
and morbidity ; it jarred upon me,
and I was glad that my brother had expressed
his feelings on the subject, even
though it had annoyed her. While we
were sitting in silence, Mr. Radcliffe was
announced. He often came to seek my
small assistance, although my father objected
to parish work ; and there were
sundry club books, the accounts of which
I kept for him, hoping thus to make up
in some small measure for the time he
expended on my brothers.

Florence had been antagonistic to the

vicar from the very commencement of

oiu: acquaintance ; it seemed to have been

dislike at first sight, on her part, and she

took every opportunity of saying unpleasant

L 2

tidings to him, which rendered him very
uncomfortable, and which it was far from
agreeable for me to hear said to a visitor,
especially as I had a great respect for Mr.
Radcliffe. Upon the present occasion she
was particularly quarrelsome and snappish,
and more than once brought the colour to
his cheeks.

'* This is a horrible place," she complained
; '' it is enough to freeze the life out
of one. It was never really cold in our
darling old Devonshire ; don't I msh I
could be back there ! I never knew what
a charming place it was till I lost it."

Don't you think. Miss Florence," said
Mj*. Radcliffe, gently, '' that, looking back,
things always seem brighter and happier
than even they really were. There is no
life so pleasant but that clouds must dim
our sunshine at times ; in after years you
may possibly look back at the days you spent

at Little Newington, and think that, after
all, they were not entirely unhappy ones.
You have your father, and brothers, and
sister, around you. The good God has ' set
us in families' — that is, most of us. I
never had any one but my mother myself,
my father having died in my infancy. I
found great joy in her love ; but now that
she has passed away, I am alone in the
world."

For a moment he paused, rose, walked
to the window, and stood there, apparently
looking out. He was thinking of his
mother, and when he came back to us his
eyes looked dim and sad.

'' You see your life is a fuller one than
mine, for instance, Miss Florence," he said,
in a quiet voice.

'' I don t agree with you at all," she
answered, roughly ; *you have your work,
your daily round of duty, I have simply

nothing on earth to do. It is enough to
drive one melancholy mad."

'' Cannot you work too ? " he asked,
eagerly. " There are many poor people
here who would be thankful for some
clothes for their little ones, this cold
weather. Those good old Miss Montagues
have sent me a roll of flannel, but many of
the women have neither time nor sense to
make it up. Now, would you mind trying
your hand at one or two little garments ? "

'• I am no gentlewoman," replied she,
coldly, "and have more than I can do to
keep my own clothes tidy. Miriam, no
doubt, will manage them all for you, if you
ask her ; she boasts that she can male
time."

I fear I already trespass much on your
sister's leisure," he returned, the disappointed
look dying out of his face somewhat
as he turned to me ; but I am always

grateful for any help given to my poor.
The Miss Montagues have promised some
blankets, and they will be very acceptable.
I often think at night, when I am snug
and warm in bed, how our poorer brethren
must suffer, without proper covering over
them."

'' I'll defy them to have colder feet than
I have ; even my hot bottle does not warm
them'' said Florence, petulantly.

Many of them have not the comfort of
hot bottles," returned the vicar, his good
temper reviving. Who could long be angry
with our spoilt child ?

Then why have they not ? " she demanded.
" An old bottle is not a very
expensive luxury, and water is plentiful
enough."

But coals are not," he replied, '' and
hot water cannot be obtained without a
good fire. However, it is as bad for j'ou

to have cold feet as for them, as you
remark, and since your hot application
does not succeed, why not go on the
other tack? I saw an account given of
a cure for cold feet in a medical journal,
which advised the dipping them, when
chilled, into cold water for a short period,
then taking them out and putting them
back again, to encourage the circulation;
then they were to be rubbed with a
rough towel till they glowed, after which
you might wrap them in flannel and
jump into bed."

What an absurd theory," said my
sister, scornfully.

I am not so sure of that, Flo," I struck
in. '' When we had a game of snowballs
in the garden the other day, how cold our
fingers where at first, then they glowed so
wee could hardly bear them. Grandmamma
would prove it by Euclid. Things that are

equal to the same, are equal to one another,
you know'

Well, does it not strike you we might
find a more agreeable topic of conversation
? " asked my sister, discontentedly.
Now, have you not a little scandal to tellus
? There might be something interesting,
and even amusing, in that. I have always
meant to ask you about Mrs. Rider.
How came her husband to marry such a
Goths'

Of course, she has no education," replied
our vicar, " but I think her vastly
superior in nature to Mr. Eider ; he has
the brains, she the heart."

'rand who on earth was she ? " asked
my sister ; " I never saw such a specimen
of the species before — never ; they don't
grow in Devonshire."

Mrs. Adder was just a common orange
girl in the streets of London," said Mr.

Radcliffe, " that was all. She did not even
know her own name beyond that of ' Sally
nor who her parents had been ; but she
was an honest girl, and, in those days,
good-looking, and an old merchant took a
fancy to her, and married her. No doubt
he would have had her well educated, but
that he fell into ill health. Sally proved
a tender nurse to him, and when he died,
about a year after their marriage, he left
her a nice little fortune, and Mr. Rider,
who was one of the old man's clerks, proposed
to the widow, and was accepted.
Every one knew that he married her for
the sake of her money, and that he cared
little or nothing for her, but Mrs. Rider
did not discover the fact, as he has never
ill-used her. He has gone into various
speculations since then, and promoted many
schemes, and, so far, seems not to have
burnt his fingers ; but, I must confess, he

is not a man I could trust with any confidence.
"

*' What a funny story," remarked my
sister ; " one can hardly fancy a romance
behind that bulky form."

"Dear me! there is the church bell,"
exclaimed the vicar, starting up. "I had
no idea I had been here so long ; time
passes quickly in pleasant company."

Then he wished us good-bye.

When he was gone, we relapsed into the
silence in which he had found us. I was busy
doing some needlework, and my sister was
gazing absently into the fire. After a long
pause she raised a pair of mischievous blue
eyes to my face —

Miriam, I have made up my mind to
cultivate him."

What do you mean — whom ? " I questioned.


*' Why, the vicar, of course," she laughed.

'' It will amuse me, and it will not hurt
him."

'' I am not so certain of that's I answered,
gravely. " Surely you cannot
mean that you have deliberately made up
your mind to flirt with the man '? "

Yes, that is just the state of the case,'^
she replied, nodding her golden head, knowingly.
"He warmed up wonderfully when
he was trying to get me to work for his
beloved flock, and I think some fun may begot
out of him. I wonder if he has ever
been in love, and how he will feel when he
recognises the fact that he is spoons on
Miss Florence Costelion ! Don't look so
shocked, Miriam, dear ; I don't mean anything
serious, you know. I am not the
girl to marry a door parson, so you may
make your mind easy on that score. Two
hundred a year, with the poor of the parish
for society, and coal clubs and shoe clubs

for my daily topics of conversation, varied
by provident societies, would not be in
my line at all."

"Then why not leave the man alone T'
I asked.

*' I must do something," she said, pitifully,
turning her pink palms outward,
with a pathetic gesture.

My dear little sister," I urged, "surely
you can find something better to do than
tormenting an inoffensive fellow creature."

"I dont know that," she remarked,
eagerly. " I saw his eyes light up this
afternoon : I want to bring out that expression
again ; I am curious to see how he
will look when he cares for any one. I
have never had an offer — I mean him to
make me one ; it will be a new sensation,
at any rate. Miriam, has any one ever
proposed to you ? Come, now, did not
Herbert Armstrong?"

'florence!" I gasped, with burning
cheeks, "how can you say such things!
Herbert and I were boy and girl friends —
nothing more''

"Then I don't see what you have to
blush about ; and if that was all, how came
you to have all those stolen meetings 1 I
wonder what papa would have said had he
known."

You are mistaken," I answered, more
quietly. ''I never met Herbert once by
appointment ; if we met by accident it was
not likely I should shun him, after his
saving my life."

Oh, of course not."

'' And if you think to silence me thus,
Flo, you are mistaken. I think it will be very,
very wrong of you to get up this flirtation.
I am sure that Mr. Radcliife is an earnest
man. He will not understand you ; he will
think you serious in your encouragement."

*' Of course, I mean him to."

In flint, you intend deliberately to take
away his faith in women, and to break his
heart ; it is not a very worthy pastime, my
dear."

My sister raised herself up and looked at
me keenly, then began to laugh.

*' If I shall be poaching on your preserves,
say so at once, Miriam. I always thought
it was young Armstrong, but if it is the
parson, confess the fact — there is honour
among thieves, you know. Shall I congratulate
you?"

" Florence," I exclaimed, in anger, " do
not judge me by your own standard. I
work for Mr. Radcliffe because he needs
help, and I Uke him, but that is all. I
should be glad to see him happily married
tomorrow ; he can be nothing to me beyond
a friend."

Well, I am glad the coast is clear," she

answered, calmly, and picking up a novel
that lay at hand, she began to read by the
firelight.

CHAPTER VL

I COULD not sleep that night ; the conversations
of the day before wove themselves
into strange stories, and when I dozed,
tired out, I awoke with some vague terror
upon me, and a sense of trouble to come.

Martyrs, suicides, and broken hearts I
could account for, but there was an uneasiness
in my mind beyond these which I
could not understand.

I got up the moment the light began to
creep around my curtains lazily, put on my
dressing-gown, and commenced brushing
out the long tresses of my dusky hair,

VOL. I. M

which wellnigh enveloped me, and as I
brushed I thought. The vicar's story of
Mrs. Rider came back to me. She had the
traces of beauty in her fat red face even
now ; her features, although grown coarse,
were by no means bad. There seemed to
be something about the Riders which
troubled me. What was it ? Then it came
to me ; the vicar's words began to peal in
my ears like a chime of bells — not joy-bells
truly. ''He is not a man I could trust
with any confidence."

That was the feeling which had come
upon me when first we met, the something
which I had not liked in his face ; and my
father was mixed up with this man !

Could I warn him ? No ! I had nothing
definite to say ; I could not go and tell him
that I had an instinct against Mr. Rider,
and that Mr. Radchfi^e did not think him
worthy of confidence. Of course he would

naturally he annoyed, and think my interference
impertinent.

No ! there was really nothing I could
do ; yet to sit by silent, believing danger
to be coming, seemed the conduct of a
coward.

Well, perhaps it was but fancy after all,
and the natural consequence of a bad night,
that I should be low-spirited this morning.
I would try and shake it off. Cold as it
was, I plunged into my bath, the iciness of
which dispelled all fancies, and descended
with cheeks aglow just as the servants were
stirring. The fire in the dining-room was,
however, lighted, and greeted me with a
fierce spluttering and crackling, and a
thousand flying fire-sparks born of the
popping wood.

When the domestic had taken herself out
of the way, I sat down to the little writing-table
in the window and began at a MS.

M 2

which I was anxious to finish ; it was only
a short story, and I meant to launch it
when completed.

I knew it was but a tiny skiff to go out
against the strong winds of competition,
and there would be stiff and searching editorial
gales through which it must pass,
which might use it roughly perhaps, and
which would sear and scorch it, or beat it
with angry gustS; and take the wind out of
its virgin sails. It was my little dove,
setting forth over the world of waters — how
would it come back ?

It was my tiny boat, going out across a
troubled ocean, with a sea of difficulties
before it — would it find a pilot to help its
inexperience ? Was a harbour for it ahead,
to the right hand or to the left '? It was
done. The words of Herbert Armstrong
were ringing in my ears —

"Miriam, if you will to become an

authoress, the power of writing is in
you."

My little story was now complete ; my
days of writing for pleasure alone were
over ; for the future I would make literature
the aim and object of my daily life —
success my goal. Oh, if I could only
succeed !

But somehow the hands that held the
MS. dropped with the written pages into
m}^ lap, and my mind went back again over
the past ; the days that were gone glided
once more before my mental vision, clearly
and slowly. Once more I saw a girl sailing
alone on a green, washed sea. The breakers
came, all white-crested and wind-driven,
lashing towards the bay. The girl failed to
make her boat face the driving blast when
the sheltering headlands were passed, and
was obliged to turn back. Her dark hair
had blown from its fastenings ; but the

sailor's hat was safely tied under her chin
with ribbons of navy blue, and the dark
serge dress seemed none the worse for the
mist and the driving foam.

Then the boat became unmanageable,
running before the wind like a frightened
steed. It was glorious sailing ; past all the
well-known objects the boat and the girl
flew. Yes ! there were the grey stone walls
of the ivy-clad abbey — but the boat was
far from land ; there was the old familiar
landing-place — but how were those two
small brown hands to manage the sail and
steer it in ? Still it must be done.

Then a rush of many waters — a mighty
roar of ocean-weaves, fierce rolling billows
passing over a dusky head — long dark hair
floating like tempest-tossed seaweed, a
frail thread between life and death, nothing
more — a wild clutching, a gasp — the salt
waves in face and mouth ; then the

blankness of death, silence, and unconsciousness.


I shuddered as this slide passed across
the camera of my brain. Life is dear to the
young. Azrael, clad in his sombre, bat] ike
shadows, a thing of fear.

A bright one replaced it, a dreamy picture,
with one figure standing out in full
relief. Strong arms seemed once more to
clasp me in a warm, sheltering embrace, a
kind, earnest face bent over me, honest
blue eyes looked upon me with pity and
interest. Only two words were spoken, but
they echoed in my ears.

He had said, '' Thank God !"

A sense of utter security and rest, all
anxiety, all care had passed away, undertaken
by one stronger than myself. Oh,
why must that beautiful picture vanish !

Sitting there with my MS. in my hands,
yet with all memory of the present

merged in the dead past, I drop the pages
unheeded fluttering to the ground, and
stretch out my hands to stay the vision ; —
my lips move, but no words come to them ;
I can only by gestures pray that I may not
awake to find myself among the angry
waters.

"It is half-past eight, Miss, weill you
make the tea V

I start ! my dream is broken, the kind
eyes are gone ; my grey colourless life is
before me, and must be lived. I must e'en
be as strong as I can, and take care of
myself, and do my best for others too.

Why, Miss Miriam, you're crying.
What is the matter ; can I do anything
for you ^" asks the little maid anxiously.

Crying ! I raise my hand to my face — it
is wet with tears.

No, Mary, nothing is ^vl'ong, thank
you 1 I was only thinking of a scene I

witnessed years ago ; I did not know I
was crying.'^

It must have been a very sad
one, Miss' returned the girl with
sympathy*'

No, no, it was the brightest one I have
ever seen."

The maid stared at me bewildered, but
as I smiled at her and dried my tearstained
face, she was satisfied, and went
away thinking Miss Miriam a very strange
young lady. Then mechanically I put in
the tea, gather up my manuscript and
proceed to read it carefully over — but my
quiet is past ; my brothers come whistling
down the stairs— I do not wish them to
know that my story is going out on probation,
I apprehend disappointment enough
without their jeers and laughter — so I sHp
my papers into the drawer, and take my
place at the head of the table. The two

grand mammas and my stepmother breakfast
in their own rooms.

Down first, for a wonder' cries Être,
seizing me by both ears from the back, and
blowing on the top of my head as a
matutinal caress.

'^ Oh ! Trevelyan, I wish you would learn
to be less rough'' I cry sharply, '* see how
you have tumbled my hair — I hate to have
it untidy — one might as well have a young
bear for a brother."

"Thank you for nothing, Miss Dignity,
that's all the credit a fellow gets for being
affectionate — you should just see how some
fellows treat their sisters ; don't care for
them a straw ; never take a bit of notice of
them, I can tell you."

"Well, I must confess some of your
attentions might be dispensed with," I
reply laughing.

Bob kisses me, and sits down.

'•' I hope Flo lias got over her fit of the
]blues T he asks, raising his eyes to mine.
"Why, Miriam ! you ve been crying. What's
up f Trevelyan immediately seizes me by
the shoulders, and twists me round in my
chair, and after an examination of my face
he cries, "You've been blubbing, as sure as
eggs is eggs."

I laugh upon the instant. "Well, of all
the ridiculous boys that ever breathed," I
protest. " / cry — now, am I one of the
crying sort ? You are both too clever by
half this time."

I'll lay my lucky sixpence upon it, and
it's the only one I've got' persists Trevelyan.

You know you are quite safe, and that
I never bet," I answer scornfully, " you will
have to grow a little older before you can
see through a brick wall ; now you only
knock your head against it, when you come
prying, and want to find out what is on the

other side of it ; so sit down and have your
breakfast."

What, before the governor arrives 1" he
asks, grinning at me.

"Can't you hear him, coming, stupid?"
I retort, for my father's footsteps were
audible on the stairs, but I must confess
I had forgotten his absence in my endeavours
to throw my young brother off the scent,
Vv'ell knowing his love of tormenting, and
how my tears would be brought forward on
all occasions if their existence could once
be proved against me. I rise to greet my
father as he enters the room, and kiss the
cheek he presents for my salute, and return
to my place. Bob regards me intently, but
says no more ; he has the sense to perceive
these remarks only harass me ; not so Trevelyan.


Well, Miriam, we will refer the case to
a higher court. Will you be the judge, sir,

whether Miriam has been crying or no V^
he persists. Sir Charteris looks up from
the newspaper, the pages of which he is
cutting.

Are you unwell ?" he asks, not unkindly.


'* There is nothing wrong with me, thank
you, papa," I reply simply and pour out
the tea.

Mary carries off three little white damask-clad
trays, with the breakfasts of the elder "
branches of the community, and then reappears
with a fourth.

Miss Florence has overslept herself,
please. Miss, and will you send her her
breakfast ; she won't be down for this hour
or more."

Sir Charteris has soon finished, and
starts across the common to save the train
for the great metropolis ; the boys depart
for their morning reading with our vicar

and once more I am alone. From the
drawer I take out my MS. I have gone
over it again and again, but even as I read
it this last time, I find little things that
can be improved, left out, or put in. It is
like pulling out grey hairs, there are always
some to be found when you look again, but
I had made up my mind that this was to
be the last time of looking over,

A painter will stand before the picture
which has grown dear to him in the painting,
and touch it here and there again and
yet again, darkening a shadow, intensifying
a light, heightening a colour. To others it is
finished, but to him never while it is within
his reach, and his palettes are near at hand.
He must turn it to the wall if he would
get on with his other work, or send it away
out of the range of his brush, So I lighted
a candle, rolled the MS. into a neat little
parcel, and stamped the wax with which I

closed it, with the seal upon my watch-chain.
We had no letter weights at No. 3,
Devonshire Terrace, so having directed it
to the editor of a well-known magazine, I
ran up stairs to my own room to put on
my hat and jacket. My sister was coiling
the last golden tress of her hair as I entered.

'' Will you come for a walk this beautiful
morning?" I ask, turning to her as I speak,
it is very fine, and the air so crisp — just
the day for a good long walk. I am going
to the post-ojB&ce first, and then we can
take any route you like."

"No, thanks, Miriam, I have other fish
to fry," is all her reply.

"You really won't come," I say regretfully.


"I really wont; I am quite obdurate,"
she answers. '*

My things are on and I am ready to
start.

I am quite sorry," I say, with my
fingers on the door handle ; " won't you
change your mind, it would do you good ? "

But my sister only shakes her golden
head, and I start alone, the little roll of
papers in my hand.

At the post office I get it weighed. It
will go for twopence. What a tiny story
it is after all, yet my heart beats as I hear
it fall heavily, heavily for such a short tale,
into the box, with an important thud.
Then I breathe more freely. Whatever
comes of it, it is gone ; I cannot get it back
now. I wonder, as I walk along, when I
shall learn its fate, and what that fate maybe.
Then I tell myself that I shall be unfitted
for other work if I spend the interim
in doubts and fears and wondering, and
determine to try and shut out the remembrance
of the little packet from my mind ;
but first I fall to thinking yet again of

Herbert Armstrong's words. Is it possible
that I really may succeed in time ?

Thus questioning, I come to cross roads.
One leads direct into the town, the other,
if followed, to Faresham, where on the
outskirts of the village stood the Manor
House, which had been in the Montague
family for generations ; where the seven
had Heed their peaceful lives together, and
where three of them had died their peaceful
deaths. And now when these four shall
have passed away the Montagues will be
no more, for there is no heir to come after
them ; and as I stood there remembering
the fact, I almost thought that it was
better so, for no new generation of Montagues
could ever have been so sweet and
innocent of evil as that which was passing
so quietly and gently away. The Mont agues
and steam power could scarcely be

co-existent. They could never move on
VOL. I. N

with the high pressure of the nineteenth
century.

Scarcely knowing that I did so I turned
towards Faresham.

I had already returned the first call of
the kind oki trio, with my father and sister,
and Lady Lavinia. We had at the desire
of Sir Charteris hired a fly on purpose todo
so, and I had walked over with my
brother Bob since, and had received a most
kindly welcome.

Perhaps it was the remembrance of that
welcome which led me, as it were instinctively,
towards the Manor House ;
perhaps it was the fact that the Montagues
were friends of those who had been good tome
in my need. Whatever the cause, I
went, walking at a brisk pace, which made
those five miles seem short ones, until I
found myself before the handsome massive
iron gates, with my fingers clasped around

the old-fashioned pendant mediaeval bell,
which rang with such a deep tongued
clang in the fine old garden, verdant, even
in December, with its wealth of evergreen
oaks and its rare, well-grown shrubs, which
had been planted so many years ago.
There the bay tree really flourished,
flourished as I had never seen it do before ;
and the stately deodaras swept the ground
with their branches, while the Lawsonias
stood like gigantic sentries upon the soft
green lawn.

The trees at the Manor House were of a
very great age. Some had fallen from
decay, but the old stumps had been retained,
and were rendered sightly by being
covered with the large leaves of the Irish
ivy, which also grew in a rich bed under
the spreading branches of the cedars,
hiding the bare ground, which is but too

apt to be found under those majestic trees.

N 2

The Manor House gardens were old-world,
like their owners. No gem-like beds of
brilliant flowers were ever there laid out in
the gay spring time. Geraniums were
grown in the conservatories, so were the
cancellaria and lobelia, with the waxen-flowered
begonia, side by side with the
simple daphne, and the white trumpet-shaped
flower of the datura overhead, and
erica of many hues, here, there, and everywhere.
The walls clad with climbing roses,
hoya, and stephanotis ; while the delicate
gloxinia peeped out amid the green leaves
of the ferns, and the sweet scent of the
gardenia was all around.

In the summer time, when I had first
seen the old place, all these were in bloom,
and the blue starred acanthus plants
stood among the aloes on the terrace, while
the garden was filled with its old-fashioned
flowers. Gorgeous peonies and ascension

lilies stood side by side. Great yellow sunflowers
were there with their faces turned
sunwards ; tall hollyhocks, China roses,
foxgloves, southernwood, sweetwilliams,
pinks, white and coloured, imperials, and
the deep blue monkshood ; the dark scabious
flower, and beds of tender mignonette,
pale blue and yellow lupins; all
these and many more were there, while
the scent of sweet briar filled the soft
warm air ; but now only the white starlike
flowers of the Christmas rose greeted me,
and the bright red holly berries, which
were plentiful that season ; a bunch of
mistletoe looked down from an oak as I
passed under it, the wind blew a little
gust and rustled it, and it swayed as
though it laughed at me, and shook its
white berries overhead. What did it
mean 1 — that I was all alone, with no one
to love me, none who came to kiss, even

with the mistletoe in the boughs above,
and Christmas near at hand.

Once again two words came back to my
recollection— '' Thank God ! " Were they
wafted upon the breeze borne from afar on
the wings of the wind ? " Thank God ! ''
Oh ! had he really cared in those dear days
now so long gone by*? Perhaps it had
been so then, but that time lay back faraway
among the shadows, in the days
when I was little more than a child. Now
I was a woman, twenty years of age, with
the realities of life before me — life and
work. Day dreams were not for me.

I was soon ushered into a large, plainly
furnished sitting-room, and was receiving
the welcome of the quartette.

"My dear, this is an unexpected
pleasure," cried the youngest, cheerfully,
with a warm light upon her fresh hued
cheek ; 'rand all alone ! Whenever I see

you it reminds me of our friends the
Armstrongss, the greatest friends we ever
lead, my dear."

Perhaps you have never heard," the old
man mumbled, "how Colonel Armstrong's
father saved my fathers life. He did, Miss
Miriam, and his children can never forget
it. They are both gone on before, his
father and mine ; but we love the colonel
for his father s sake — for his father's sake."

'rand for his own, brother. There never
was a better man than Colonel Armstrong."

It was Miss Caroline, the youngest, who
was speaking. Her voice was eager and
her eyes earnest, and her small white hands
were clasped and unclasped restlessly, as
though she would keep down some overpowering
emotion ; and rosy red banners
were hung out upon the still fair, smooth
old cheeks.

What did this agitation mean ?

Had Miss Caroline her own story, her
own romance, her own sorrow hidden away
behind that sweet, patient, placid face ?
Only one who loved could speak with that
either-like tremble in the voice. Miss
Caroline was old, but surely, surely, her
love was yet young. Yes, young and
green, and fresh and true, or that light
could nob re-kindle in eyes long faded.
Dear Miss Caroline !

How it happened I never knew, but I
had slipped my hand into hers, I had
stooped over it and kissed it — we had
looked into each other's eyes — perhaps we
had read each other's hearts, and from that
moment we y,' ere friends.

Our compact had been a silent one ; the
little scene had been so quietly enacted,
that none but our two selves knew.

The sight of those other three was far
firm good, they had noticed nothing unusual,

and yet a compact bad been made
between us, wbicb was to bear fruit.

For once I was absent from the lunch-table
at home.

Everything seemed so peaceful, so real,
at the Manor House — it gave me mental
power only to sit there, and I had not the
heart to refuse when they asked me to
remain with them and partake of their midday
meal — everything at the Manor House
was solid, handsome, and sufficiently comfortable.


The furniture was chiefly of oak, grown
dark with aofe — the floors of the same
wood, covered in the middle with thick
Turkey carpets, and the winter sun shone
in at the coloured glass windows, all rose
and golden hued, touching the sombre
shades within with warmth and light.

The best friends must part," I said at
length, as the sun sunk low in the heavens,

looking like a red ball of fire in the clear
sky. "Will not the sunset be glorious
to-night, Miss Caroline? How I shall
enjoy it as I walk homeward."

'' The frost will continue and strengthen,
if we may judge by the appearance of
the evening," remarked the second Miss
Montague.

Yes, yes ; the sunset is very beautiful,
speaking to us of a coming day which is all
unseen by us," murmured the eldest, faintly,
but it is at sunrise that we grow weary,
and ask for rest. I suppose after the darkness
of the night and death's shadows,
the soul loves to rise with the sunbeams.
Angel's ladders ! It must be beautiful
to wake to new life with the renewed
day. Do you not think so. Miss
Miriam ? "

Her words awed me. I felt somehow
that she was " not far from the Kingdom

of Heaven' that her awakening in the
Paradise of God was not very distant,
whether she departed hence with the rising
sun or when it should be high in the sky,
or even should the day be dark and dreary,
and the shadows many through which she
must pass.

Whatever might come, whichever it
might be, looking upon the pure steadfast
face, I felt that " all must be well " with
her,

Let me order the carriage to take you
home, my dear," said Miss Caroline, "it is
lonely for you to walk by yourself."

Oh ! no, I Hke it'' I replied ; " I shall
think of you all the way home."

'' That will not be a very engaging subject
for meditation, I fear," replied Miss
Caroline, with a smile ; " and now I shall
not let you go until you promise you will
come again — soon — very soon, Miriam,

dear." She held me by both hands and
looked up in my face, and I stooped and
kissed her. I was not very tall, not so
tall nearly as my sister Florence, but I was
far taller than Miss Caroline Montague.

*' Yes ! I will come. I like to come here
so very much."

I felt all the better for their companionship
as I walked homewards. When I
neared Little Newington, I observed two
figures who stood talking together — they
parted, and each went a different way. I
met one ; it proved to be Mr. Radcliffe.
He was in a hurry, he said, going to see a
dying man ; so he passed me with a word
of greeting only. The other walked on
slowly, and I quickly overtook her ; it was
my sister. " Why, Flo," I cried, '*' so you
went for a walk after all."

No ; I have only been to church," she
returned coolly

To church ! you ? and on a week day,"
I replied, amazed.

Is there any great crime in going to
church?" she retorted. 'really, Miriam,
if I had told you I had committed a murder
you could scarcely look more shocked."

My sister had told me she meant to flirt
with the vicar, but I certainly had been
unprepared for this move.

"Florence dear," T said earnestly, "if
you went to church because you longed for
the peace of God's house, or for the comfort
of His words, go, and may He be with you.
I can well believe in such feelings ; those
dear old Miss Montagues would feel like
that I am sure — as for myself I wish I
could too ; but I cannot. I go to church
on Sunday because everybody goes — if
every one stayed at home I should do the
same ; there is only one thing ever makes
me avant to be in church. On a Sunday if

one remains at home, and your home
happens to be just near enough to let you
hear the sound of the organ, and the voices
of many people raised in praise, coming all
indistinct and wordless through the stir
air, one's heart feels too full for speech, as
though it would burst — tears rush to one's
eyes. You fancy you can hear the tune at
times ; as the voices rise you really do hear
it, and when they fall you fill in the gaps
mentally, and wish you were there with
them, and feel as though you had been left
outside Heaven with the gate closed against

you."

I cannot say I have ever felt Eke that,"
returns my sister coldly. " But I suppose
this is only one of your wonderful prefaces,
and we shall come to what you really mean,
by and by."

Thus recalled to myself, I cease to dream
and begin again. " I don't suppose I

express myself very well, dear, but what I
really want to say to you is simply this : if
you go to church for the sake of the service
go, by all means ; if, on the contrary, you do
so as a means to an end, oh ! pray, pray, do
not do it."

'' You are rather vague, Miriam," answered
my sister, somewhat superciliously,
perhaps you would like to explain your
version of a means to an end ; you are fond
of talking usually."

'' Well, in plain language, to try and
attract Mr. Radcliffe ; to gain his good
opinion, to enable you to work upon his
feelings, and to mould him to your wishes ;
to give yourself opportunities of meeting
him often and alone. There ! that is plain
enough at any rate."

My sister's voice rang out in merry peals
of laughter.

Yes, that is plain enough, as you say.

Well, I hope you have finished your sermon
as here we are back again at this charming
Devonshire Terrace, I cannot call it home."
"But, Florence, you have not answered
me," I began.

"My dear, I never heard you ask any
question, so how could I answer ? and I
am sure I have listened patiently to all you
had to say. I suppose you have done, if
not we can take another turn."
I have quite done, thank you."
Very well, then, we will go in."
Who could understand my sister 1 Not
I, most certainly.

That night, when all were in bed at the
Manor House, my new-made friend, Miss
Caroline Montague, sat down to write a
letter — it was to Mrs. Armstrong. This I
learnt in after years ; but it is best told
now in its proper place. One of the paragraphs
ran thus : —

Your sweet yoiing friend, Miriam Costelion, lias
been with us to-day, and I have quite taken her into
my heart. What a lovable girl she is, with such fresh,
true feelings ; and what a happy man will he be who
gains her affections. She does not forget your kindness
to her, nor Herbert's rescue of her at Kingsholme,
and speaks of you all with the deepest gratitude.
From what I gather, her father allows her few correspondents,
if any. Best assured her silence is from no
lack of kindly feeling. I am more than sure that
none of you are forgotten."

This letter went down to Devonshire,
and was duly received by Colonel and Mrs.
Armstrong, and the next Indian mail
carried it to their son.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER Vll.

The frost continued to strengthen, and
daily our boys started with their skates in
their hands over the surrounding country,
seeking good pieces of water whereon to
disport themselves.

I had managed once again to run over
to the Manor House and see my new-found
friend, and had received from her an affectionate
welcome, which had left me with a
warmth about my heart such as 1 had not
felt since we left our dear old home. It is
so pleasant to be loved !

My sister was going her own way. She

was supposed in our little circle to have
become a " religieuse' and Trevelyan was
for ever making side thrusts at her, referring
innocently to " saints " and " blue
lights," "Jumping Jehoshaphats/^ "Holy
Moses," and the like, or saying wicked.
things ; then pretending to see that his
sister was present, and apologising profusely
for his words.

One thing was certain, that Florence
now never missed the daily services, fairweather
or foul, and many a time our vicar
would walk home with her, shielding her
from the wind and snow with his large
miibrella. He even took her out to teach
her to skate — a fact which soon became
talked about among our neighbours, and intime
reached our father's ears ; but it was
with me that he was angry.

"Miriam," he said severely to me one

morning when he entered the breakfast

2

room. "How is it that you allow your
sister to go about alone ? You are older
than she is, and should take better care of
her. Jo not let me hear of her being seen
on the ice again without you — mind that."

** I have no skates ; but I can go and
look on,, if you wish it, father. Florence
has none either, so I suppose she must
have borrowed a pair. I would have gone
before had she asked me."

You should not wait to be asked," he
returned, somewhat roughly. " You might
be able to go about alone without remark ;
but all eyes are upon a pretty girl like
your sister, and you should bear the fact in
mind."

"I will endeavour to do so," I replied,
quietly, but my heart was hot and sore
within me. It had ever been so with Sir
Charteris. Florence was alone to be considered.


Presently my sister came down. The
look of weariness was not so apparent as it
had been on her face, and in its place there
was a restless, wakeful expression, and
more than once her eyes turned to the
grey sky and the slowly-falling snow-flakes
which fluttered like large feathers across
the window panes.

You will not venture out to-day, Flo,"
I said, when greetings had been exchanged.

Why not V^ she asked, sharply ; " the
snow is nothing. Of course I shall go."

Where is it you are going V said my
father, looking up.

Oh ! nowhere in particular," she replied,
flushing over cheek and brow : "that
is, I may walk up and see the skaters,
perhaps."

**Ah! in that case, Miriam had better
go with you."

"There is no need for it, indeed, papa.

I have been alone before, and — and Miriam
does not care for that sort of thing."

Miriam, you have my orders," he said,
decidedly, and went on with his breakfast.
There were few words spoken during the
remainder of the meal ; the boys had
already had theirs, and had gone off to the
vicar s, and at length Sir Charteris started
for the station.

As long as he was in the house my sister
remained silent, but as soon as the hall-door
closed she turned upon me with
angry eyes.

Who has been putting things into my
fathers head?" she gasped. '* Miriam, is
it your'

'* I have held no conversation with our
father at all," I answered, quietly; "he
has heard that you go out skating alone."

"But I dont" she interrupted; "Mr.
Radcliife goes with me."

*' I doubt if he would think that mended
matters, Flo. anyhow, I have orders to
be youi- shadow in futile."

I never heard such a thing in my life ! '*
she cried, angrily. '' It is scandalous, cruel,
monstrous, abominable. I might as well
have a keeper at once if I am to have you
dragging after me always, listening to all I
say, and prying into all I do."

Surely it is still more unpleasant forme,"
I answered.

Have you orders to go to church with
me, too V she inquired, with a sneer.

I do not know how far my instructions
really went," I replied; 'but I shall not
construe them so strictly as that."

My sister gave a sigh of relief.

I suppose I must be thankful for small
mercies," she ended, and turned away, to
look out of the window.

'' Please, Miss, there's no more water in

the cistern, and the pipes is froze, and
none won't come in, and what is cook to
dor'

She must draw some from the well,
Mary, and fill the boiler by hand ; there is
nothing else to be done, unless you can
thaw the pipes."

"We has tried that, Miss, but none
won't come."

'swell, then, there is no choice in the
matter, Mary ; but tell cook to be very
careful and put the water in gradually,
as boilers are apt to break in these
frosts."

We had a window at either end of the
room, and in a short time I saw that my
orders were carried out. Cook and Mary
each went running down with an empty
bucket, and came back slowly with it
filled ; so T dismissed the kitchen boiler
from my mind.

"If it was not you, it must have been
Mrs. Rider' said Florence, suddenly.
** What beasts people are ! why cannot
they mind their own business ? "

"What has Mrs. Rider done" I questioned,
preparing to leave the room.

Why ! she does not like to see Mr.
RadclifFe attentive to me, so she makes
spiteful remarks. No doubt she told papa.
I will owe her one for that."

I do not see what object she can have
had in making mischief," I reply.

Don't you ? Have you forgotten what
she said to mamma about his marrying,
and how her eyes rested on her precious
Emily?"

"No, I have not forgotten; but I did
not know you heard the conversation. You
were talking nineteen to the dozen with
her husband."

"As if I could only do one thing at a

time, and such a thing as talking to Mr.
Rider."

"You may be a perfect Julius Caesar,
for all I know, Flo ; but now I must
go."

Soon after, the church bell began to ring,
and the slam of the front door told me
that my sister had gone out.

When lunch was over she whispered tome,
''If you must go, be ready at two
o'clock."

Oh ! very well," I reeked, more than
half vexed that the afternoon would be
lost to me ; and T went up to the room we
shared, followed by my sister.

"Miriam," she said, with heated cheeks.
"He does not know you are coming; I
dare say he will be surprised."

Oh, indeed !"

Well, I saw him after church, of course,
and you know I promised yesterday to goto

the lake this afternoon ; but I could not
manage to tell him that my family think 1
am not to be trusted, and that I am to
have a sentry over me for the rest of my
life, so I thought I would let your going
seem accidental."

"As you please ; but I cannot see how it
matters what he thinks upon such a subject."


I am sure I wish you were not going,
Miriam, since you seem determined to
make yourself disagreeable."

Thank you very much," I replied ; and
Florence, having completed her toilet,
marches majestically out of the room, down
the stairs, along the passages, and opens
the front door.

We have only one looking-glass in our
room, and that she has monopolized during
our conversation, so I have not been able
to finish dressing; and now have to

scramble on my things and hurry without
dignity after her.

She has already got half way down the
terrace by the time I reach the door, and I
have to run in order to overtake her ; rather
hard upon an elder sister, I think, but I
make no remark, and feel that ere this, I
ought to have learnt my lesson in humility,
and not lose sight of the fact that she is
beautiful Florence Costelion, and I only plain
Miriam, with the blood of a plebeian mother
in my veins ; as I reflect on this I pull my
glove together savagely to button it, and
tear it up the side.

^' That looks nice, certainly," remarks
my sister, " people will think you can't
afford a new pair of gloves ; you had
better go back and get some others.
Here come the vicar, we will wait for

you."

No, thank you ; people will only think

right. This is my best pair, and I cannot
afford any more."

Here we met Mr. Radcliffe, who certainly
did look surprised and somewhat
disappointed too ; notwithstanding the fact
that he smiled, and said, " It was an unexpected
pleasure to see me." Poor man I
no doubt he thought he was telling the
truth.

My sister's spirits rose from the time we
came upon him waiting for us, or rather for
her, by the road side.

She laughed, talked, and was brilliant ;
her blue eyes sparkled, and his, so like a
sheep dog's in expression, were fixed upon
her as a dog's might be ; wistfully, tenderly,
love beseechingly, and were seldom
removed from her face.

When we reach the lake, he introduces
me to an old clergyman, who is very full of
the restoration of his church ; a work

wJbicli is to be begun when spring days
come, and I am, so to speak, button-holed
for the afternoon.

It is very little use for me to have come
with my sister, for she has flown away to
the other side of the lake with our vicar's
arm about her, and I have no more control
over her than a man upon the sea shore
has over a ship sailing away across the
ocean.

I suggest to my old gentleman that I
should like to walk round to the other side,
but when we get there, like a 
she has gone somewhere else, and,
tired and vexed, I take a seat beside my
somewhat portly companion, whose breath
is not good when walking, and listen
wearily to his description of proposed
pulpits and lecterns, reredos and screens,
naves, and aisles, and transepts.

The church is a hundred miles away.

He is oily a visitor in the neighbourhood.
I am totally unlikely ever to see it, and it
is to be wonderfully high church, and I
don't think my taste lies in that direction.

*' Your sister is a very good church
woman, I hear, and I am glad, extremely
glad, for Radcliffe is a really good fellow ! "

I grow crimson.

I do not know much about my sister s
principles'' I reply; " and I am at a loss to
imagine what they can have to do with
Mr. EadcMe ! ''

*'I really beg your pardon. I hope I
have not been misinformed. I quite
thought it was a settled thing''

Does that mean that you have heard
my sister is likely to marry our vicar ? "
I question, with increasing vexation ; " because,
if so, pray let me tell you there is
not a shadow of truth in it. Florence is
nothing but a heedless child, and the vicar

must have more sense than to dream such
a thing possible for a moment. He must
be blind if he thinks my sister fit for any
man's wife, let alone a parson's."

Love is blind, my dear young lady,"
returned my companion, nodding complacently
at his own remark, of which he was
evidently proud, and thought he had said
something sharp ; " and no doubt I have
made a mistake," he adds.

"Some one has made a mistake, most
certainly," I aver, and then I rise. '^ Will
you oblige me by telling my sister it is
time to go home."

He looks doubtfully over the ice (Florence
is in the very centre of it), and essays
to do my behest, picking his footsteps with
much caution, then, finding no serious
results, he goes on a little more briskly,
and the next moment my messenger is on
the broad of his back, with his stubby

clerical legs kicking, and his arms working,
and he so strongly resembled a black
beetle under similar circumstances that I
could not move for laughing. The skaters
came buzzing about him to assist him up,
and among them our vicar, to whom,
though shaken, he staunchly delivered my
message.

Oh ! you can't want to go yet," calls
my sister. " It is such glorious fun, it is a
shame to lose any of it."

I draw my own mother's watch from
my pocket, and remark that she won't be
in time for church if we do not return at
once.

The argument is unanswerable, and the
vicar's face assumes a grave look, and I
hear him say, in a low voice, that he is
glad I mentioned it, for in his happiness he
had forgotten to keep any count of the
time.

VOL. I. P

On the way home, Florence is again brilliant
and sparkling. When we reach the
church she stops. '^ Are you coming inV
she asks ; but I decline, and bidding Mr.
Radcliffe good bye, I pass on alone ; the
afternoon may have been delightful to
them, to me it had certainly been terribly
slow.

That was, however, the first and the last
day I had to look on at the skating, for
the severe weather became more intense
than ever, and we had such bitter cold as
had not been equalled for many years. A
terrific gale overtook us, beating the driving
snow through the closed windows and
under the outer doors, rendering us cold
and wretched. The feeble church bell
tinkled on, as modern bells are apt to do,
lacking the silvery sound of the metal used
in the churches of former times. The unmelodious
" ting, ting," came borne on the

wintry blast ; but even vas sister did not
attempt to move, and only drew nearer to
the crackling log, and the blazing coal.

My fiitlier, too, was at home — vehicular
and railway traffic were well nigh at
a stand-still — the line of rail was deep in
snow, and all wise persons remained
quietly in their homes, if they were fortunate
enough to have any. But what of
the starving poor, who have no roof to
shelter them ?

Who can help thinking of them as the
wind beats with fierce fury against our
windows, rattling them angrily with its
powerful gusts, and making the nine inch
walls of our Devonshire Terrace house
quiver and tremble. The daily papers were
filled with sorry descriptions of the sufferings
of man and beast. The anemometer
asserted the fact that the force of the wind

was not less than sixty miles an hour, and

pin

the hurrying gusts considerably more.
Even the snow sweepers did not appear to
offer their services.

The common in front of us was one vast
mass of pure whiteness, a smooth surface
without the sign of a human footstep upon
it. The tradespeople left us to our fate.
It was of no consequence to them whether
we had provisions or no, and, Hke ourselves,
they preferred keeping under shelter.

The poor postman alone, of all human
beings, visited us while the worst lasted,
and all this time our unfortunate maids
had to draw our water from the well in the
garden, and carry it in, or sometimes Bob
and Trevelyan would go and do it for them,
to save them a wetting.

We had a small bath room up-stairs ;
but now all baths, whether warm or cold,
were denied us. The water for them could
not be obtained.

More than once I had been down to the
kitchen myself to remind the cook about
keeping the boiler filled, and as often had
received her assurance that it was all right,
and she had drawn no water out — but
something went wrong — what, we never
knew. All at once, as we were sitting
round the fire, a terrible explosion was
heard, and the wall of our room was simply
torn down, and my poor stepmother blown
off her chair.

When we picked her up she was quite
insensible, and without a word Bob turned
to the door.

'' Bob ! where are you going V 1 asked.
"For the doctor," was his reply, and in
another moment the front gate had closed
after him, and he was battling his way
against the fiercely blowing hurricane. I
gave him a grateful glance as he passed out
of the room, and he smiled back at me.

Gently, we carried poor Lady Lavinia to
bed, and did what we could for her, but
there was a fixed look in her face which
alarmed me greatly, and the nervous system
of Lady Trevelyan seemed to be more
shaken than ever.

Sir Charteris was tender over his wife,
but there was no depth of feeling in his face
he was sorry and pitiful, and that was all.
The doctor arrived at last. What an ago
it appeared before he came, to us who were
waiting, and yet, considering the inclement
weather, he had been wonderfully quick.
I asked for my brother, who had not returned
with him, and about whom I felt
anxious, and learnt that there was nothing
the matter with him but exhaustion, the
poor boy's strength being so spent that the
doctor, Mr. Lyndhurst, had put him to bed,
and administered a sleeping draught to him
before starting.

You are sure there is nothing to be
uneasy about' I ask, looking into his kind
face.

Quite sure, Miss CosteHon, and I will
take every care of him, only, while this
severe cold continues, 1 shall not let him
return to you ; he does not strike me as
being very strong. How old is he ? "

Nineteen'' I reply, looking at him, wistfully.
" You don't think Bob is ill, do you ? "

No, he has outgrown his strength, that
is all ; in a year or two he will pull round ; "
and then he hurries on to the sick room,
and I feel guilty in having delayed him so
long. I follow him with quiet footsteps —
poor old Lady Trevelyan leading the way
with painful nervousness.

Mr. Lyndhurst does all that can be done
for the sufferer, and once more I am standing
looking into his patient, earnest face in
the dining room ; for the drawing room, with

its brilliant hued cretonnes and chintz, is
a wreck.

'ris it life or death ? " I ask, in an awed
voice, trying to read his answer in his quiet
penetrating eyes.

"It is both," he answered, slowly — "but
can you bear to hear the truth about your
poor mother 1 "

Lady Lavinia is my stepmother," T
replied, " I would rather know the worst."

Ah ! that makes a difference of course.
Well, Miss Costelion, it is utterly impossible
her ladyship can recover from the injuries
she has sustained, all we can do is to
alleviate her sufferings. We may keep her
alive a year or so, not more."

Tears started to my eyes — I held out my
hands as though I could ward off the
approach of death — " Poor Lady Lavinia,"
I murmured, "poor Lady Lavinia."

^' I ought not to have told you," he said,

regretfully ; and then, as Sir Charteris
entered the room, I slipped away.

I had no time after this for going outwith
my sister — my days were spent by the
bed-side of my stepmother, and I did all
that I, in my inexperience, could do ; and
indeed I thought but little of my sister and
her flirtations ; she and Mr. Radcliffe must
look after themselves, if they were so foolish
as to make themselves, or each other, unhappy,
that was their look out.

Soon after, my father beckoned me into
our third little sitting room, which had been
given over to him as a study. "Miriam,"
he said, slowly, " my circumstances have
somewhat improved since I have become
the chairman of this company — that, added
to the opinion of Mr. Lyndhurst, that these
houses lie too low to be healthy, has decided
me to move ; and I have made an arrangement
with my landlord to give up this house,

and go into another belonging to hit. Like
everything else, there are disadvantages
attending this change. We shall be much
further from the station than we are here,
but a small pony carriage will rectify that
difficulty, and with a lad besides our two
female servants, we shall manage. I have
seen the house ; it is detached, and stands in
its own grounds; they are small, but pretty.
You and the boys must take to gardening,
and we must do the best we can."

"Is it very expensive, papa ? " 1 inquire,
with a dread upon me that we may be
tempted in a larger place to spend more
than we can afford.

'rit will cost more to keep up, of
course," he replied, evasively, "but the rent
is reasonable ; it is now being set in order,
and wall be ready in March ; by then,
Lyndhurst tells me, your mother will be
able to be moved."

Oh ! papa, if we could only have Shamrock
back, since you tend to keep a pony,"
I venture ; " we were all so fond of him.'^

I have thought of that, too," returned
my father ; "I mean to write to the farmer
to whom I sold him, and ask if he ^vill let
me have him back."

*'0h! papa," I cried, *rit would be like
old times to stroke his soft brown nose
again ! how I hope you will be able to get
him."

Do you think your mother is stronger,
]Miriam ? " he asked, after a pause. " You
have been very good in nursing her."

His thin, white hand was lying listlessly
upon the table — a slender, aristocratic hand
I stooped and kissed it.

*' I have done my best, papa, but I fear it
is out of my power to do much good," I
replied, gratefully ; any kindness softened
me at once.

'' There, there, that will do ! " he answered,
drawing his arm quickly away.

I have said all I have to say. I do not
want to detain you longer, you may be
needed upstairs."

If I had been a sensitive plant, I could
not have shrunk more quickly back from
showing my feelings — my heart was beating
I felt ready to cry with disappointment
and mortification, but I only rose quickly
and left the room.

* * 'X-

Before we quitted Devonshire Terrace, a
rather absurd scene took place. Miss Rider
determined to bear out her name, and sent
into Newington for a horse to carry her.

My sister Florence, having heard from Mr.
Lyndhurst of the pranks of a certain hack
in the livery stables there, with malice prepense,
recommended poor Emly to order
that particular animal, known as " Harem,"

being the short for " Harem Scared," —
another horse, with a groom in wondrous
top boots, was to follow her, so that things
might be done in proper style. Up clattered
the animals, and my brothers and
Florence called me to the window. I did
not consider it particularly good manners to
watch our neighbours, but it seemed to bethe
fashion in Devonshire Terrace, and I
went, not wishing to be disagreeable.

'' Now we shall see some fun," exclaimed
my sister; "that horse objects to be
mounted."

Oh ! Florence, how do you know that? "

Mr. Lyndhurst was telling me some fine

jokes about him ; he is downright wicked ! "

Why, I heard you advising Miss Eider

to ask for that especial beast."

Yes 1 that is where the laugh will come
in, my dear Miriam ; I owe her one for
talking about me ! "

But do you know for certain that she
has done so, dear ?"

*' Oh! I am certain of it."

Here Miss Rider emerged from the iron
gates of number one, with Mrs. Eider and
two maids in attendance.

She do look beautiful," said the matron,
eyeing her daughter approvingly.

Emly was dressed in a bright blue habit,
and a brighter blue ribbon about her neck,
with a bow of the same colour upon her
whip handle. On her head was a Gainsborough
hat, with an enormous plume of
cock's feathers drooping from its ample
brim.

*' It is evident dear Emily thinks blue is
her colour," remarked my sister, with a
sneer.

She is vulgar, of course," said Bob, ^' but
she is not half bad looking."

At this moment the girl's foot was in the

hand of the groom, who was somewhat
nervously saying, " wo ho " to the animal,
which was standing with ears back, and tail
tucked in, looking anything but a picture
of amiability ; his horse being in the meantime
held by one of the maids, at the very
extremity of the bridle, but apparently it
had not the faintest idea of moving ; it
stood with its head down, and its eyes shut,
with bent knees, and an altogether weary
look.

Poor old beast ! it doesn't want much
holding," said Trevelyan, " it will hardly
keep up with that vicious looking brute ;
Miss Emily will have a certain amount of
work with him I'll warrant."

She will have to get on first," replied
Florence, with a laugh.

Two or three fruitless attempts at
mounting had already been made, and both
Emily and the groom seemed to be losing

their tempers ; no doubt it was galling to
them to be doing the thing so badly, when
the eyes of the whole terrace were peering
out, and she had meant every one to envy
her. Poor girl I I could not help feeling
rather sorry for her, more especially now
that I knew this trap had been deliberately
set for her by my sister.

The voices reached us from outside.

"You don't understand mounting a lady,"
said Miss Rider, irritably, *your master
ought to have sent some one who does."

"That's odd, too," retorted the man,
rudely, " C072siderin' I've been along of
'^ losses ' all my life, man and boy ; and ave
mounted real ladies by the score."

There was an unfortunate stress upon the
word real, which made Mrs. Eider furious.

Now, no inference," she cried, '' or back
you go, 'horses and all ; and your master
shall know the reason why, and that he

shall. If you know low to put the young
lady on, why don't you do it "? She'd
better have a chair and get up herself'

She's like a sack of salt to lift,"
growled the man. " If she'll only (jo, I'll
put her up fast enough ; only 'tciint of no
use for she to bounce when IVe been
struggling' with her till all my strength's
gone, ril say one, two, three. Miss ; and
when I says one, you ain't to jump, nor yet
when I says two, but when I says three,
bounce as 'high as you please, and darn me
if you don't go up this time."

Emily stood ready, one hand on the
pommel, and a somewhat large foot held
up.

"0/?e/" said the man; "there you go
now, Miss, you was just a going' to bounce,
blest if you wasn't."

'' I wasn't going to do anything of the
sort," protested Miss Rider.

VOL. I. Q

*' One— two— three ! !!"

The suddenness with which the man
uttered the last monosyllable, like a volunteer's
word of command, was enough to
waken the dead, let alone f lighten a restive
horse.

Poor Em'jy rose grandly with a fine
spring, but when she had done so she had
nothing to sit upon but the air, and she
was rather substantial for such a platform.
With a scream, she clutched at the groom's
head — but alas ! both hat and hair flew into
the gutter (for Jerry Jarvy wore a wig),
and Miss Rider followed them.

It was very muddy, the effects of the
thaw after a prolonged frost, and it is
impossible to say which was the dirtier
when picked up, the hat, the wig, or
Emily ; or who was the most angry, the
owner of the wig, or the wearer of the
blue habit.

Certainly, if Miss Rider had talked of
my sister, she had had her revenge. Tears
came to the poor girl's eyes. Tears of
temper, I fear, for the mud was very soft,
and she could scarcely have been hurt.

The two indignant persons stood facing
each other. Jarvy, with his red, angry face,
and a shining unfledged head, and poor
besmeared Emily, looking heartily ashamed
of her appearance.

*' That reminds me of a riddle IVe heard,"
cried Trevelyan, , laughing — " Miriam, why
is a bald head like Heaven ? "

I cannot imagine any similitude whatever,
Tre ; if Heaven is perfect, a baldhead
certainly is not, in any sense of the
word."

You give it up, then '? "

Yes ; but perhaps Flo can guess it."

Not she ; it wants brains to guess
riddles."

Q 2

"You're polite, certainly," retorted Florence,
turning upon him angrily.

"Well, what is the answer?" I ask,
trying to avert the coming storm — but
Florence and Trevelyan are looking fiercely
at one another, evidently intent on a
row.

Why don't you reply to Miriam, Tre I
instead of you and Flo staring at each
other like two incensed tom cats," laughed
Bob. " And there ! I declare j^ooi' Emily
is not going to have her ride at all " (for
the last angry words had reached us,
swelling up above our own little family
disputes).

Go back to your master, and tell him
the next tune I order horses, to send a
respectable person with them."

** Thanked, Miss," replied the man, " he
won't send me again, and that I can promise
you," and in another moment he was riding

the weary old hack home again to Lexington,
with " Harem "in high feather by his
side.

And poor, dirty, mud-grimed Miss Rider
turned sulkily into the house, with tears of
mortification in her eyes, while her mother
followed like an angry old hen with all it's
feathers ruffled, until she looked twice her
ordinary size, and goodness knows that was
nothing insignificant.

The door was quickly closed after them,
but that did not prevent the sound of
sobbing from being borne through some
open window and wafted upon the breeze,
nor did we fail to hear Mrs. Eider's scolding
tones ; and it was evident that now
the real object of her displeasure was out
of reach, it had become necessary for the
choleric woman to find another on which
to expend the overcharged state of her
system.

"Poor Em'ly/' said Bob, "I am afraid
she is having rather a bad time of it."

I am very sorry for her," I replied,
regretfully, "for all this need not have
happened. My dear Florence, when will
you learn wisdom ? believe me, practical
jokes are both bad and dangerous things."

To all of which my sister answered
nothing, but continued to look out of the
window as though she did not even hear
me.

She is doing the deaf adder dodge,"
remarked Trevelyan, with a grimace, "so
you may as well save your breath to cool
your porridge ; but isn't old mother Rider
just going it ? That is what one might
call a safety valve, I conclude."

"Her steam is up, certainly. That woman
is a caution, and no mistake," laughed Bob.

Mr. Radcliffe thinks her very kindhearted,"
I say, deprecatingly, at which

remark I am greeted with a duetto of
merriment.

"He should hear her now," Bob suggested,
giving my hair a Httle pull ; " there never
was such a girl for finding out people's good
points."

She does not trouble me much in that
way," observed Florence, stiffly, stil] gazing
out over the fields.

Ob ! the deaf adder is not so deaf as it
seemed, eh ! " and Trevelyan began one of
his war dances around us, until we were
fairly dazed.

If you could oblige us by behaving like
a gentleman it really would be a mercy,"
cried my sister, indignantly ; " what must
people think of yo:, ?"

People ! I don't see them ; there is no
one to listen to me, unless you count the
geese."

'these walls arc not very thick, Tre," I

put in ; " our neighbours can certainly hear
you."

Wei ! and suppose they can, what
harm am I doing ?"

''No harm, hwt—"

There, Miriam, shut up, there's a good
girl, you ought to like to see a fellow jolly.
Now do let me sing you a song. You
haven't heard ' Verbs and Tenses ' yet. It's
awfully good, but unfortunately I only
know bits of it. I wish I could give it to
you all throughout

"i don't, Tre. Have you forgotten your
mother 1 there is too much noise for her altogether,
so do be quiet, there's a good boy."

You are a regular wet blanket, Miriam,"
he complained ; "a fellow may not say his
soul is his own, according to you. But
come now, I will return good for evil. I
know you are dying to hear the answer to
the riddle, and I will tell it to you."

That is very kind of you," I laughed,
but I had forgotten all about it."

That is a big one," returned my young
brother, "you do not expect me to believe
that. Women and girls are always inquisitive'*


Are they ? " You must be a good judge,
Tre ; your experience of the sex is quite
unlimited."

Emily's left off now," said Bob.

You seem quite fond of Miss Bider,"
sneered Florence.

Well ! at any rate, I don't like to hear
her cry," returned my brother ; " a woman's
tears always tickle me up."

"How precocious!" drawled she; "we
shall be asked to receive the sweet creature
as a member of our family next, I suppose."

I do not think you will," he returned,
quietly.

All this Ijegan with my saying Mrs.

Eider is kind-hearted," I laughed. "I
shall be afraid to assert anything another
time if I am to arouse such a wasp's nest."

Call us hornets while you are about it'
suggested Tre. "Go on, Miriam, we like
to hear you."

"Very well, then, I will proceed with
my defence of Mrs. E/ider. I contend she
maj be perfectly kind-hearted, and yet
have a bad temper."

"Yes, she may, and again she may not."

You may not think the two compatible,
but really they are. Passionate people
have generally generous natures, and will
do anything for you when the fit is over."

Quite so ! oh yes ! — cut your throat
one moment, and kiss the place to make it
well the next. Go it Miriam !" cried
Trevelyan.

"I would rather have to deal with a
person like that, than one with a sulky

disposition, or even with a tormenting imp
like you' I end, half in fun, half in anger.

I have a very good mind not to give
you the answer to that riddle now."

"As you please, Être."

"Well, it isn't for your sake, mind, but
it is hard that the others should be punished
for you."

"Oh! don't mind me," said Bob, with
his honest smile.

That is all very well," resumed Trevelyan,
" but Florence wants to know," and
he looked for confirmation of his words
towards his sister's beautiful profile ; but
she took not the faintest notice of him or
of his remark. Then the door opened, and
a new idea struck him — by now he was
really anxious to impart the solution of the
riddle. " Oh 1 here comes granny ; soit
like conundrums, now, don't you ? " he cried,
turning eagerly to her.

*' Conundrums ? of course I am very fond
of them ; people often convey a very pretty
sentiment in asking a riddle. I remember
once a gentleman asking me why ladies,
and especially I myself, ought to be very
much afraid of lightning, and the answer
was that they were so attractive. A very
nice compliment, and so delicately conveyed,
was it not, Miriam 1 Ah! gentlemen
are not so polite nowadays as they
Averse in my youth ! I suppose you never
had such a thing said to you, my dear."

No, Lady Trevelyan, never ! " I laughed.

'* I thought not ! ah ! times are terribly
changed ; in my young days all the girls
were belles, and the men beaux."

'' Oh ! granny, granny ! I am afraid you
were a sad coquette in your youth, and I
don't believe, really I don't, that you are
much better now ; but never mind, I'll
forgive you. And now about this enigma,

conundrum, riddle, or whatever it should
rightly be called. Would you like to hear
it ? Of course you would, so I will go on.
Why is a bald head like heaven ? ' "

'' Dear me, Trevelyan, I did not know it
was. I have not an idea ; because — -
because " —

Because it is difficult to know it is there
when it is covered with that darkness which
may be ' felt,' " tried Bob.

'' No ! "

Because it is in an elevated position''
I suggest.

Wrong again."

Because all may get it and few do,"
proposes Florence, who really had awoke
from her reverie.

What duffers you all are," cries Être,
impatiently ; " you had better give it up if
you can't find sensible answers."

"I think they are very sensible,"

contended Florence, "and the chances are
ten to one if the proper reply will prove
half so good''

"Oh! won't it though ? "

''I suppose it is something like a leg of
mutton being better than heaven," Bob
went on, reflectively.

Then you suppose wrong, for it is
nothing of the sort."

Well ! I shan't guess any more,"
continued Bob. " What is it ? "

Do all the others cave in too ? " asked
Tre, with a self satisfied, and very important
air.

Oh ! yes ! " I laughed, " I quite cave in,
as you call it."

Do you, gran ? "

I am not so good at guessing as I used
to be, Tre, and riddles are not the same as
they were when I was young."

No ! I don't suppose they are ; wee

make them by electricity now, you know,
grandmother."

"By electricity! dear me, how very
wonderful ; where do they do it ? I should
like to see the operation very much."

Ah ! no doubt you would, gran, but
they won't admit you unless you are a
Freemason."

A Freemason ! then I won't go ; they
shall never make one of me, although I
have heard that they did it to some poor
lady, because she was listening to their
dreadful secrets."

"Did what?" asked Bob, unable to
restrain his amusement. " Do you know,
Lady Trevelyan, Freemasons are most
charitable people, and do much good. I
hope to be one some day myself."

You're very young. Bob, and don't
understand these things," continued Lady
Trevelyan, mysteriously ; "but take my

advice, and have nothing to do with them.
Why ! they are a secret society. They
might ask you to murder some one you
know, and you would Jive to do it ! "

At this we one and all burst out laughing,
much to the old lady's indignation.

You mean Nihilists, not Freemasons,
Lady Trevelyan," said Bob, kindly.

Come, Tre, let us have this riddle," I
suggest, in order to turn the subject. " We
all cave in; we give it up''

Because," began my young brother

Speak for yourself, Miriam'' interrupted
Florence. " I have no intention whatever
of giving it up. I shall go on guessing.
Because it is — "

Well ? ''

Oh ! I don't know."

'* You do give it up, then."

I tell you I do not. I could guess it
easily, but I shall not take the trouble."

That is a very fine horse you are
riding, Miss Flo ! Take care it does not
throw you, as Harem did Miss Rider,"
suggests Trevelyan.

How could she be thrown from a thing
she didn't mount, stupid ? " asked Florence,
over her shoulder, as she sailed majestically
from the room.

She has a sweet temper, hasn't she ? "
remarked Trevelyan, with a grin, addressing
no one in particular, and looking towards
the closed door.

It is a pity you torment her so, Être,"
I begin ; but he will not hear me out.

Oh ! say it is me, by all means. Somehow
everything is always my fault."

"But what is the answer, my dear?"
demands Lady Trevelyan, unconsciously
coming to the rescue.

Well I now she's gone," he answered,
with a nod of the head towards the door-vol.

I. R

way, " I don't mind telling you. ' Because
it is a bright, shining spot, where
there is no dying (dyeing) and no
parting'"

Why that is as old as the hills," I cry.
I thought it was something new."

Well, it is new, is it not ? / never
heard it until quite lately."

But you are not every one," remarks
Bob, giving him a slap on the shoulder,
and it's my belief that Noah made that
riddle in the ark ! "

Did he really, my dear ? " asked Lady
Trevelyan. "It is a very pretty riddle,
and its pedigree is most interesting. I did
not know that Noah was a literary man."

If that constitutes a literary man, gran,
I'm one. I made a conundrum yesterday.
Shall I tell it to you ? "

Oh ! Tre, do spare us," I pleaded. " I
have such a lot of work to do, and I shall

never get it finished if you will not let me
have a little peace."

"What, have you not finished those
window curtains for the new house yet 1 I
must say it is a shame that Florence does
not help you. How many pairs are
there ? " '

Fifteen or sixteen. It is rather a case
of the ' weary punt of tow ; ' but no
doubt I shall get through them in time ;
and there are plenty of other things to be
done besides."

"Poor old girl," whispered my own
brother, softly, " I wish I could help you ;
but although Sir Robert Sale could use his
needle as well as his sword, I am sorry to
say I cannot. I can, however, turn the
handle of the sewing machine, if that will
save you at all."

And I will devote myself to my grand-mamma's
amusement," said Tre, with a

demureness which boded ill for her peace
of mind. Then he began, in a low voice,
I sap, gran, there's been such a dreadful
shipwreck ! All hands lost."

Oh! my dear, I can't bear to hear these
things ; pray don't tell me about them,
they make me creep all down my spine, and
I really shall be quite ill. I shall be sure
to think of the poor souls whenever the
wind blows at night."

"Well, then, I will tell you about the
railway accident instead ; oh ! gran, there
has been such a jolly smasher; almost everyone
was seriously injured. It was a race
train crammed with people, which came into
collision with the mail, and over a hundred
men were killed. One of the guards was
blown bang up in the air, and there were
arms, and legs, and heads lying all over the
place. Lots of poor creatures had their
noses broken, and their teeth knocked down

their throats ; one man swallowed a whole
false set."

Now, Lady Trevelyan wore a set herself,
and this information quite finished her up.

Good gracious, my dear boy, how very
dreadful ! It killed him, I suppose."

"On the spot! and all persons wearing
false teeth are advised by the Times to
leave them off at once. I thought you
would like to hear the news, you seem to
want a little cheering up. Well, Miriam,
what on earth is the matter ? you have
been making faces like a chimpanzee for the
last five minutes ; want me to leave off
talking, do you ? well, why on earth didn't
you say so, instead of making yourself so
unnecessarily ugly ? Why, I declare, dear
Emily is coming in, accompanied by her
Ma.' Fm blessed if there won't be a row
at Florence having recommended them to
order that horse ; she will have to give her

reasons in writing. I'll stay and see the
fun out. I wish Florence were here ;
she's a great gun in the case of a row, she
fires her shots mercilessly. Let us call her
down."

No, no, far better not ; it would be
most unpleasant for papa if we were to
have any fuss with these Riders, when he
is mixed up with the paterfamilias in business
matters."

'miriam is right," said Bob, "we must
try and pour oil upon the troubled water."

"Miriam is a regular Mother Carey's
chicken ; she expels it as she goes, and
creates a calm for herself; trust her to
make peace, she does not appreciate rough
weather one little bit," rejoined Tre. " How
do you do, Miss Rider, did you have a
pleasant ride *? " he ended, turning to poor
unfortunate Emily, who stood before us
with very red eyes.

You know as how she didn't," cried the
mother, indignantly, "for you was all a
standing at that there window and enjoying
her discomfiture."

"Indeed no," I began, "we were very
sorry to see that your daughter had so
much trouble with that restive animal ; the
livery stable keeper ought not to have sentit
for a lady to ride."

There's others more to blame than him,
and that's what we've come about. Your
sister Florence, as you calls her, told Emily
to hask for that 'horse, as it was the best
ladies 'back in the stud, and here's the
result of her advice, and I've come to know
what it means," cried the good woman,
excitedly.

•' It is very unfortunate that my sister
should have given any advice," I answered,
gently, " and I greatly hope Miss Emily is
not hurt."

Mother Carey's chicken ! " giggles Trevelyan,
aside.

Nevertheless, we should like to 'ave it
hout with her," blurted out the excited
woman.

I fear my sister cannot see you, I think
she is lying down," I replied, colouring at
the untruth, for I did not think anything
of the sort ; *' and poor Lady Lavinia is so
very unwell to-day that I am afraid I shall
have to ask you to excuse me, presently'

'* What a polite hint to be off!" says Trevelyan,
in a stage whisper, which makes me
redder still.

'' Pray believe, Mrs. Rider," I continue,
quickly, "that my sister never saw the
horse in her life, and had your daughter
met with any accident, I am certain she
would have been as sorry as I should have
been, and that would have been very sorry
indeed."

Well, my dear, you've a nice way of
putting things, and I suppose I am bound
to believe you, so I shan't say no more
about it, though Emily's habit is completely
spoilt — that bright blue won't stand mud
stains, but it looks cheerful, and she 'ad it
by my advice. And now, as you want to
go and look after your ' Ma,' I suppose we
'ad better take ourselves hoi," and Mrs.
Iter (like the month of March), although
she had come in like a lion, went out like a
lamb. And so long as we remained in
Devonshire Terrace, poor Emily did not
make another attempt at equestrian exercise.


End OF VOL. I.

STEVENS AND RICHARDSON, PRINTERS, 5, r;REAT QUEEN STREET, W'.C.

VOL. 1. S

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS



\-177w
V.3

1^ l^obcl.

BY

J. SALE LLOYD,

AUTHOR OF
THE SILENT «HAr>OW," "RUTH EVERINUHAW," " Till HAZKL11L'R.ST
MYSTERY," "ragamuffins," ETC., ETC.,
AND EDITOR OF "SHADOWS OF THE PAST."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1882.

[A// rights reserved.]

STEVENS ifc RICHARDSON, PRINTERS, 5, GREAT QUEEN STREET,

LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AT. 5

CHAPTER XV.

I don't know how Adam and Eve felt
when they were turned out of Paradise,
but I thhik our sensations must have been
somewhat similar as we looked our last
upon our poor little home, not that there
was much resemblance between Willow-lands
and Paradise, nor was leaving it like
leaving Kingsholme Abbey ; but when we
came to Little Newington we had some
hope as to the future. We had the rent of
our Devonshire home to depend upon, and

a roof of our own over our heads, and when
VOL. in. B

we went to Willowlands my father had
furnished for himself, and we had got rid of
the gaudy cretonnes which had been such
an eye-sore to us. Now we had nothing
left, and sweet and kind as dear Aunt
Phyllis was, I must confess that dependence
on her for daily bread was somewhat
painful to me, and I am sure it must have
been still more so to Sir Charteris.

A carriage met us at Heathley Station.
It was one of the useful sort which could
be either open or shut, and upon the
present occasion it was closed. It was
evident, however, that it was no hired
vehicle, for it was bright and well kept,
while the cushions were spotless and softly
.stuffed. A powerful, well-made, handsome
horse was in the shafts, and a coachman in
quiet livery was sitting statue-like on the
box, while a footman stood by the door,
and as we were getting Florence and our

two old ladies into the carriage, a small
phaeton drawn by a pony came up behind
us, and 1 uttered a cry of gladness, for it
was Aunt Phyllis, and she was driving our
dear little pet Shamrock, who had been
taken away amid many tears the day before,
and I had then little thought to see him
again so soon.

Good, kind, thoughtful Aunt Phyllis !
She could not have given me a more
pleasant welcome.

I have come to take Miriam home with
me. Sir Charteris," she cried, cheerfully,
'* I knew you would have no room for her ;
jump in, Miriam, we shall be there as soon
as they are. Shamrock likes our good
level roads," and in another moment we
were rolling briskly along with the carriage
behind us.

Welcome, my own dear niece, to the

home which was your mother's, and which

B 2

will always be yours," cried Aunt Phyllis,
folding me lovingly in her arms, while a
clean-looking lad led Shamrock away to the
stable.

You see, Miriam, I did not bring ' Ears'
with the pony. I would have done so had
I believed in him, but I did not. He was
too specious, he talked too much, and did
too little ; poor Shamrock has not improved
in appearance under his hands, even since
I have known him."

I am glad of that, auntie' I said with
a smile, " I have never believed in him
either. He talked himself into papa's
good graces, and into the place, and I
am not sorry to leave him behind. He
praised himself more than he groomed
Shamrock ; but you must let me tell you
how grateful I am to you for buying my
pet."

*' I ought rather to thank you, that

through you, I have met with so good a
pony' she replied, kindly.

That is your way of putting it, auntie ;
but I Avill answer for it, that you would
never have thought of keeping a pony for
yourself"

My dear, I am so good a walker, I
have not needed one hitherto ; but you see
I am growing older every day, and it will
be a great comfort and happiness to me."

You, dear auntie !" I cried. " You are
the most unselfish woman on earth."

Here they come !" interrupted she, joyfully.
" Now, Miriam, to give them a
hearty welcome."

Here Mrs. Armatage joined us, and amid
kindly words our home party (exclusive of
my two brothers, who had remained at
Mr. Radcliffe s to study with him) entered
Greenhorn.

For Sir Charter! s a sitting-room had

been prepared, and the first thing I saw
when the door was opened — taking up the
greater part of one side of the apartment
was the colossal-sized oil-painting of our
Flo's mother, the beautiful blue eyes looking
down on us just as I had seen them at
Kingsholme Abbey.

My father started as he saw it.

'' This is kind of you, Phyllis'' he said,
with feeling. " It has been a trouble tome
that the picture should go to strangers."

I thought you would accept so small a
gift from me, dear Sir Charteris, to inaugurate
your arrival."

"You thought right, Phyllis, and I thank
you from my heart," he replied, warmly.

*' I hope you will feel at home here,"
continued my aunt, " for no one will enter
this room but yourself, unless you invite
them. And now, Miriam, we will leave
your father to shake down ; when he is

ready to see his bedroom, he will find us
in the drawing-rooms' and to avoid his
thanks she hastened away.

Sir Charteris never knew that good Aunt
PhyUis had given up her own study to
him. I found it out, but I was forbidden,
on pain of my aunt's eternal displeasure,
to reveal the fact.

The delight of the Ladies Costelion and
Trevelyan at meeting Grandmamma Armatage
again was great, and the good old
lady had prepared so many plans for their
amusement that there seemed no probability
of their feeling dull. She had a
bazaar coming off, and they were pressed
into the service as workers, which, being a
novelty, proved a source of much interest
to them.

Florence and I shared a large, airy
apartment, across which there was a curtain,
which could be drawn, if desired.

Both ends of the room were furnished
alike with white varnished wood ; two
"duchesse" dressing-tables, with their little
drawers and oval looking glasses, two iron
beds with snowy draperies, two chests of
drawers, two wardrobes, two marble-topped
washhand stands, two small tables covered
with crimson cloth, upon each of which
stood two twisted wooden candlesticks, an
inkstand, a vase of fresh flowers, and a few
books of my kind aunt's choosing. Over
mine hung a beautiful picture, and in one
moment I knew that it was my own dear
mother's.

Yes ! she was like Aunt Phyllis, and she
was like me too, but to my mind, ten
times more beautiful than either of us.
Never had eyes looked so lovingly — never
had lips smiled so sweetly. It had been
taken in those happy days when she had
first given my father all her love, and before

marriage and disillusion had come to
lier.

'' Oh ! mother, mother," I cried, unmindful
of the presence of my aunt and sister,
and, indeed, forgetting them as I stood
before the picture with raised eyes and
clasped hands.

** Good gracious," exclaimed Florence,
is that really a likeness of your sister.
Aunt Phyllis, or is it one you have had
done of Miriam V

*rit is Miriam's mother, dear Florence,
and here is a picture of your's over your
table. I had it copied from your father's
oil-painting, and I hope you like it."

Oh ! dear Aunt Phyllis, how can I ever
thank you ? it will be a great happiness tome,
believe me," I said, earnestly.

'' It is very like the original," acknowledged
my sister; 'but as I cannot remember
my mother, neither may be really

like her ; however, it is none the less kind
of you to have had it done for me, and I
am much obliged to you."

But, although she kissed my aunt as she
spoke, I could hear no real gladness in her
voice.

Heathley had once been a heathery
down ; but now it had all been built over,
and it boasted its station, its church, its
town-hall, and its market place, and held
its own amongst other little towns.

The part where Aunt Phyllis lived was
the Belgravia of the neighbourhood.

Above the town rose a hill of green
meadows and wooded parkland, while its
top was crowned by quite a little forest of
blue pines and tender green larches.

Thrown up against the dark foliage was
the tall, white steeple of the stone church
and the well-proportioned edifice itself,
surrounded by God's acre, in which the

moments stood out plainly, and where
lay my mother's father. There was a path
through the fields which led to the church,
and here and there among the trees peeped
a gabled house.

Greenholm had once stood alone like
those others, and doubtless in years to
come the green sward will all be divided
into gardens, and there will be residences
right up to the church ; but, so far, they
had only extended to my mothers old
home.

It was a handsome old house — I had
almost said mansion — but that there was
so little pretence about it, or about anything
in the well-ordered establishment.
It was built of large slabs of stone which
had once been white, but were now grey
with time. A fine hyacinthus was trained
over the front of the house, while the Irish
ivy crept in profusion about its sides, rising

to the very roof and twining about the
chimneys.

You ascended to the hall door by four
massive stone steps under a noble portico
with tall Corinthian pillars on either hand
for the rest all was plain — not a particle
of ornamentation appearing anywhere.

But Greenholm stood alone so far as size
and style went, and the houses which had
crept up to its garden walls were altogether
of a different class. Modern houses of not
very large rentals — houses inhabited by
retired officers, gentlemen of small independent
means, stock brokers, smaller
bankers. Government clerks, and city merchants
— houses all ranging from one to
two hundred a-year, each detached, and
standing in its own pretty well-kept garden
— a happy, prosperous looking little
colony of English homes.

Most of our neighbours are busy men,

Sir Charteris, but we have a few living
among us who are enjoying their ' opium
cum digitated T shall especially recommend
to your notice an old Indian colonel
who has, ever since I have known him,
been expecting to be made a general, and
to get the command of a brigade ! but I
think his friends in office must have forgotten
him, for he is getting an old man
now. You will certainly find him amusing
till you have gone the round of his anecdotes
: after that you may consider him a
bore. I don't myself, for he enjoys his
own stories so vastly that I am always
pleased to hear them again to make him
happy, though I know them all so well
that I could tell them for him'

And his name V

'ris Colonel Markham."

I do not think I have ever met him in
society."

No, I don't suppose you have. He has
no English friends, except at Heathley.
All his life has been spent in India, and
his complexion bespeaks the fact''

Well, anyone in the shape of a gentleman
will be acceptable to me, Phyllis," said
my father, sadly ; " I miss my old friends,
I must confess."

"If there is anyone you would like to
ask here, Sir Charteris," said my aunt, with
some hesitation, " pray invite them — think
of the house as your own. I should have
suggested this before, but that I know
your old acquaintances would not be used
to our quiet ways."

''No, no, Phyllis, you have enough
trouble with us as it is ; but I hope not
always to be a burthen on you. I have
not been myself of late, but I am not beyond
work if only I can find it. As to my
friends, I miss them, it is true ; but I daresay

if I sought their society now I should
meet with 'the cold shoulder There is
nothing which scares a man of fashion more
than the fear of being seen with a shabby-coated
friend. It is the way of the world.
I was like that myself once, but now I am
thankful for the shabby coat to keep out
the cold."

Now, Sir Charteris's coat was not shabby
at all, but it pleased him to call it so, and
Aunt Phyllis and I did not contradict him,
so he continued — " As to your quiet ways,
I might have thought them so once, for
county families are apt to surround themselves
with unnecessary state, but now I
find them very comfortable, I assure you."

I am glad, indeed," cried my aunt, a
bright look settling down on her dear face,
and I hope the change here will do
Florence good. Do you not think she is
looking very wan and ill ? "

Yes, indeed ; I believe the breaking off
of her engagement preys upon her mind."

'' Oh no, papa, indeed, I do not think so,"
I began — but was stopped short.

Of course you do not, Miriam, as you
must be fully aware that you are much to
be blamed in that matter ; you should have
informed me at once of what was going on."
Aunt Phyllis raised her head suddenly, as
though she would have answered him, and
I knew she was going to take my part, but
she slipped her hand within mine instead, in
silent sympathy, and I returned its pressure,
and then she said —

"We will do our best to make your
darling happy, Sir Charteris ; Mr. Lynd-
hurst likens her to a flower which will not
bloom except in the light and the sunshine.
And now, we must care for her as an
exotic, and shield her from all the trouble
we can ; I trust, ere long, you will see the

roses blossom again on her fair cheeks —
they are white enough now."

They are, indeed' he sighed ; then his
eyes fell on me. " I only wish I could see
her well and strong like Miriam''

Miriam is a heather blossom, not an
exotic' she returned with a smile. And I
smiled too, for I knew that of all flowers
she loved the heather best.

But Sir Charteris looked at her in
wonder.

'upon what do you form your simile,
Phyllis V he asked. " I am not sure it is a
compliment to Miriam. The heather is a
common, humble, scentless, little flower ;
but makes a good cover for the grouse, soit
is useful."

'' The heather is fresh and healthy," she
replied, " meekly bears the rain and the
storm ; it scarcely complains when it is
trampled under foot, but it has the courage

VOL. III. G

to raise its head again. Wet or dry, hot
or cold, the heather is always the same.
Surely you must admire it, Sn* Charteris."

'you must be of Scotch extraction,
Phyllis ; as for myself, I have never given
the matter any thought ; but I will give
Miriam the credit of bearing our troubles
well."

"They are worse for you, papa," I returned,
gladdened by his word of praise.

That goes without saying, my dear —
still they are bad for us all."

Miriam," asked Grandmamma Postilion,
solemnly, as she entered the room
with an open magazine in her hand, " is
this piece of poetry yours ? It is marked
with your initials "

Yes, grand mamma. Do you like it 1 "

"It is upon faith in absence. I admire
your ideas upon the sacredness of a plighted
love. Your language is, in some parts,

powerful, but your rhetoric might be improved.
Before I took to writing, I made
myself a master of grammar, which made
me write with plainness and propriety, and
upon that foundation I worked at rhetoric.
No one should attempt authorship until
they have obtained elegance, purity, and
clearness of language'*

'' But every one thinks their own geese
swans ; do you suppose any author could
be made to consider his or her composition
bad ? But I am only an embryo author at
present, a tyro in the art of writing, and
therefore, I shall be glad to learn how this
power of language is to be obtained."

Quite right, Miriam, never be above
learning. You will do very well in time,
no doubt my dear, but to obtain perspicuity,
a full knowledge should be first acquired
of the subject in hand, and you

should meditate upon it deeply. Then,

C 2

there are many things to be avoided —
ambiguous words, baldness, dry brevity,
too many metaphors, and a confused length
of periods. Never repeat words, but find
a synonyme thereto. In writing, language
often does not seem to supply us with
sufficient words, but one must make the
best of them ; the mind has great capabilities,
and can turn sentences, and even
words to suit its purpose and explain its
meaning. '^

My dear mother, you are talking platitudes
; no one would think of writing until
they knew as much as that, you may be
be sure," exclaimed my father impatiently.

Lady Costelion looked at him coldly.

"It is time I went out of the world,
Charteris, when my opinion is considered
valueless," and she turned and left the
room.

Grandmamma/' I said, going after her

and placing my hand upon her arm. " Indeed
I consider your advice good and sensible,
and I shall try and remember all you
have told me."

"My dear Miriam," she returned impressively,
" it always comes to this ; the
young people grow wise in their own conceits,
and think the old people fools ; but,
my dear, the old people know the young
people to be so — Charteris is a fool ! I
would not acknowledge it to anyone but
you, because he is a Costelion, and my son ;
but he has been a fool all his life — a fool
when he married beneath him — a fool when
he was ashamed of a good wife — a fool when
he neglected her — a fool, when she died, to
marry again. He had money and two
children, and should have been content. A
fool when he went travelling and left his
home — a double dotted fool when he saddled
himself with poor Lady Lavinia and

her mother ; and the biggest fool of all
when he gave his name to that company.
I have no patience with him ! "

I am sure papa did not mean to be
unkind to you, grand mamma," I said, trying
to soothe her ; but her dignity was
fairly ruffled, and while we were yet talking,
a bell was heard to ring violently, so
much so that I was alarmed, and ran out
into the passage, where I met one of the
maids going quickly upstairs. "It is Lady
Trevelyan's bell," she replied to my questioning
look, and I followed her.

Upon the stairs I met my sister.

Quick, Miriam, quick," she cried, "Lady
Trevelyan has taken some wrong medicine,
she ought never to have been allowed to
keep her medicine chest."

We hurried into the room, and there
found the poor old woman groaning with
pain.

"Do not leave her, Flo," I whispered,
and ran down stairs for Aunt Phyllis.

Auntie," I said, as quietly as I could, ,
will you come up to Lady Trevelyan —
she is very ill, and I think you had better
send for the doctor. Oh I how I wish Mr.
Lyndhurst were at hand, I have great faith
in him."

"Oh! my dear," cried the poor old woman
as we entered the room ; "it is dreadful.
I am in tortures. Oh ! Miriam, where is
Aunt Phyllis — she will help me."

I am here, dear Lady Trevelyan," said
my aunt, softly. " What has happened ?
Pray tell me."

Well, my dear, I had pulled down my
blind to have a nap, but I couldn't rest,
and I thought 1 would take a sleeping
draught, which I always keep made up —
I had a bad night last night — so I fancied
a sleep now would do me good ; but, it was

dark, and by mistake, I have taken something
else, and it will kill me."

Aunt Phyllis whispered to the servant,
who left the room quickly.

Have you sent for the doctor ? " I
asked, and she nodded in the affirmative.

Then we undressed her and got her to
bed, and drew aside the curtains to let
in the light of day. How livid the poor
old face looked. She suffered too much
even to complain in words, but lay
moaning pitifully, Eke a dumb animal in
pain. The doctor came, but he was too
late to save her. She must have taken the
poison some time, he said ; he smelt the
bottle and pronounced it to be aconite.

It was evident that she had either been
too much frightened, or in too great pain to
ring the bell, and my sister in passing the
door heard her groan, and entering the
room, found her in semi-darkness, and was

greeted by the assurance, which proved to
be only too true, that she was dying, and in
terror, rang that peal which had so startled
me.

So poor Lady Trevelyan passed away,
and I went down to communicate the fact
to my father. He had not offered to go
and see her, nor had she asked for him, but
had died with her poor withered old hand
in that of Aunt Phyllis.

Papa," I said, softly entering his study,
"it is all over — she is dead ! "

Well, Miriam," he said, putting down
his book, and raising his face to mine, *' we
must all come to it, some sooner, some later.
She was an old woman ; it is better as it is,
there will be one less to keep ; and what
had she to live for "? Why surely you have
not been crying ! She was no relation of
yours whatever."

"She was Lady Lavinia's mother," I said,

and she died in great agony ; it is not
strange, surely, that I should feel it."

I am very sorry that she has suffered'
returned Sir Charteris, taking up his book
again, 'but it is over now."

"Yes, it is over," I echoed, and then
crept quietly away, feeling hushed and
awed by death's dark shadow, and pained
and sad at my fathers lack of feeling.
Yet, I suppose, since he never really cared
for the daughter, who was his wife, he
could hardly be expected to mourn for her
mother. Aunt Phyllis sent for Bob and
Trevelyan to attend the funeral, also Mr.
Radcliife and Mr. Lyndhurst, and the
solemn sable procession wound up through
the green fields, while Lady Costelion, my
sister and I watched from an upper window.
Poor Lady Trevelyan had been a nervous,
fidgety old woman, and we had often
thought her a bother, but now that she

had passed from among us, we missed her.
So it always is, I suppose ; even our greatest
blessings seem small while we have
them, and the small ones appear large when
they are withdrawn. Truly human nature
is a perverse thing.

CHAPTER XVI.

Colonel Markham proved an amusing
neighbour. He took to Sir Charteris, rendering
him a reverence which was somewhat
comical in its demonstrativeness ;
while Sir Charteris — well, I don't feel quite
sure that he really liked the Colonel ; but
being two idle men, of similar ages, they
collided. And Aunt Phyllis encouraged
the intimacy between them, that my father's
mind might be drawn from his troubles,
and it certainly struck me that the Colonel,
who was a bachelor, found another attraction
at Greenholm besides Sir Charteris,

although mj' aunt, as I could see, was totally
innocent of his admiration for her ; busy
people being seldom on the look-out for
that sort of thing.

Aunt Phyllis had made a little sanctum
of a dressing room upstairs, and had kindly
given me the use of it, so that I did not
often come in contact with Colonel Markham,
except when he was invited to luncheon
or dinner. Upon these occasions his anecdotes
were often very amusing. They generally
treated of Indian life in some shape or
form, and were certainly most ingenious
concoctions. I say concoctions, because we
quickly perceived that he was a wonderful
adept at drawing the long bow ; indeed we
have heard since that he was notorious for
his stories in the sunny East, and that untruths
in the stations where he was well
known were called "Markham." One or
two of his traveller's tales occur to me as I

write, and I may as well set them do\\'n
here. The Colonel was very fond of parrots.
He had several at Heathley, m his pretty
little detached verandah home, which he
had named " The Bungalow," and all these
parrots talked.

Upon one occasion my father was praising
their powers of speech, when their owner
said, excitedly : —

*' Yes ! sir, yes ! they are good birds,
every one of them ; but I once had a parrot
who was indeed clever. I taught that bird
to speak, Sir Charteris, in a most marvellous
manner. There was nothing that Polly
could not say. Knowing that native servants
are at times apt to torment their masters'
pets, I instructed that bird to call me byname,
whenever it needed anything, or
was in any trouble. Upon one occasion,
unseen, I was watching one of my niggers
bullying the parrot by poking at it

through the cage with a piece of stick,
and poor Polly screamed terrifically, then
called out, quite distinctly, 'Markham,
dear Markham, come quick, come quick ! '
I need hardly say that I went as fast as
my legs could carry me. I had just come
in from riding, and my whip was in my
hand, and I thrashed that nigger within an
inch of his life. He was servile under his
punishment, and expressed the deepest contrition
; but almost immediately afterwards
I lost my bird. I offered a hundred rupees
reward for it, but the poor thing was never
brought back. I inquired everywhere,
and used my best endeavours to find it ;
but my efforts were of no avail, and I gave
up the bird as lost. Six years after, I was
shooting in a jungle three hundred miles
from the station where I had been formerly
quartered, and being in want of food, I at
last made up my mind, though very much

against my inclination, to shoot some

parrots to make a pie. I was getting

short of ammunition as well as food.

So, not to throw away a shot, I waited

until near sundown to get at the biixls

roosting. Well, Sir Charteris, I spotted

fully five hundred parrots up a mango

tree. The leaves were barely visible, so

closely were the birds packed, sitting

side by side. I crept up, and was about

to take a deliberate aim, where they had

congregated the thickest, so as to bringdown

as many as I could with that one

shot ; when, all of a sudden, I heard

from the very centre of the group a well

known cry, ' Markham, dear Markham,

come quick, come quick ! ' I dropped

my gun, held out my arms, and called

joyfully, ' Polly ! my pretty Polly, come

to me.' And down flew my long-lost bird

and nestled on my bosom. You may

smile, Sir Charteris ; but I assure you that
story is the solemn truth ! ''

Ah ! then it was, indeed, a wonderful
bird ; " said my father, with a twinkle of
unbelief in his eyes.

I remember this story of Colonel Markham's,
chiefly because he told it on the day
in which our family had once more assembled
together in its entirety. And
there are others which are also landmarks
in my memory, indicating those periods in
our lives when trouble has touched ua
more keenly.

It was Christmas eve, that night on
which we met again, and Aunt Phyllis had
asked one or two other friends to join us.
The day following was not only Christmas
day, but Bob's birthday ; and notwithstanding
our position in the world, we were
a happy party. My brother had come of
age, and life was about to change for him.

VOL. III. D

The papers were now to be signed which
would make dear old Kingsholme Abbey a
possession of the Costelions no longer ; then
he was to go to Sandhurst.

Yes ! the twenty-sixth of December had
come ! Sir Charteris and Bob were closeted
with the lawyers for a long time, and we all
knew what was happening within those
four walls. After a while, there were footsteps
sounding over the polished oak floor
of the hail. The door shut, and the lawyers
were gone. The papers and conveyance
were signed, and Kingsholme was ours no
more.

It seemed to us that there was silence in
that little study then ; but my father and
my brother were quietly talking over the
present and the future. Well nigh an
hour passed. It appeared an age to Aunt
Phyllis and to me. It was like waiting hr
the return of the mourners from a funeral.

The dull expectancy, the dead past, the
buried hopes.

But Bob came at last, and stood before
us. He did not look like the Bob of even
the day before, but had the resolute air of
one who had of his own will passed through
some great ordeal.

'rit is all over now, Miriam," he said,
quietly ; his eyes wandering over the snow-clad
hill side towards the church upon the
rising ground.

Yes, dear," I returned, " the old life is
left behind."

"But there is a new one before you,

my dear nephew and niece. You were

born to the former one, but the latter you

can shape for yourselves. There is a clean

page open now, be careful to fill it well.

Whatever you take in hand, do it with all

your heart, and never forget to ask your

Heavenly Father's blessing upon it."

D 2

'* I was just thinking," remarked my
brother, dreamily, "that the future is like
that hill before us. It will be all collar
work to get to the top of it. There is no
road visible, the snow has hidden it ; but
he who means to rest in God's garden
up there, must keep a straight path, for
there are ditches and pitfalls under that
white surface which looks so smooth ; but
I trust we shall all find our way there at
last."

I got up and kissed him, and we stood
close together, his arm about my neck. I
had no words to reply to him, for his had
touched me and held me silent.

Suddenly Aunt Phyllis uttered an ejaculation,
and, looking up, we saw Mr. Radcliffe
entering the gate. He was unexpected,
and we both expressed our surprise,
while Bob ran out to meet him.

After sitting a few moments, during

which time he looked thoroughly uncomfortable,
he said,

Miss Miriam, I shall be grateful if you
will let me have a few words with you ; "
and Aunt Phyllis who overheard the
request, found she wanted Bob to help
her sort some papers, and we were left
alone.

I dare say you can guess why I have
come," he began at length, raising his
patient eyes to mine.

'' For the pleasure of our society, I suppose,
or to give us that of yours," I returned,
smiling, as well as my sad heart would
allow.

No, Miss Miriam, I have come to-day
with a specific purpose which I want to set
before you. You will answer the few questions
I have to ask, will you not '? and you
will advise me."

"I will, if I can," I replied, doubtfully,

not knowing to what he required me to
pledge myself.

Yes, I knew it ; you have always been
good and kind." Then, with a sudden effort,
How is your sister ? Is she happy ? Has
she got over her — her — the breach of her
engagement ? "

You must not ask me too many questions
at once," I said with a smile, " lest I
should not follow you, but I think I can
remember those three. I do not think
poor Flo is happy ; she does not flourish
in adversity, and she is far from strong
or well. I wish we could see her
better. As to her feelings towards Sir
Gordon Graham, I cannot inform you, as
she seldom names him, and when she
does, it is only casually, as she might any
other acquaintance of former days."

Then you do not think she still loves
him ? " he asked, eagerly.

*' I cannot possibly say."

Miss Miriam," he continued, excitedly,
I love her still ; I shall always love her.
Is there any hope for me ? Do you think
she could be happy as my wife ? I am a
poor man, but I could give her a comfortable
home, even though it must needs
be a humble one. I should not have dared
to speak, had I not once believed she liked
me, and had not trouble fallen upon her,
and upon you all. I know she is beautiful,
and that alone might attract some more
eligible person to her side ; but none can
love her better than I do, Miss Miriam,
and I have come to know whether she will
accept me."

You can but ask her," I replied, my
heart full of pity for the disappointment
which I felt sure would be his. " I will
go and ask her to come down."

Florence," I said, entering her bedroom,

where I found her sitting before the
looking-glass, staring at her own reflection.


Miriam, how you startled me," she
cried, petulantly. " Why cannot you open
the door more quietly ? I was just thinking
that I am greatly changed ; but now
tell me, do you not think I am just as
good-looking, in a different style? — what
I have lost in brightness, I have gained
in pathos. Look in the mirror, Miriam
that is a pathetic face, is it not ? ^'

Flo," I returned, " you are a vain
young puss ! But I came to tell you we
have an old friend downstairs, who wants
to see you."

An old friend ? " she questioned ; "I
did not know we had one in the world, and
after Cowper I exclaim, ' Yea, marry will
I, and with all my heart! ' but first I must
know who this old friend is."

Mr. Radcliffe."

Oh ! "

The prolonged enunciation of the word
indicated no pleasure ; then she turned a
funny, fretful face towards me —

Can't you get me off ? "

Why, Florence ? You seemed to like
his company some time since."

I dare say, I did, but that is not now.
I was younger then, and perhaps more
foolish ; at any rate, I am not in a playful
mood to-day, and I don't feel that he
would amuse me, so I won't come down."

'' My dear girl ! " I exclaimed, '' how can
you be so ungrateful ! Just remember
what obligations we are under to Mr.
Radcliffe. He has taught our brothers
for years, and since our misfortunes he
has had them both at his home ; and
he has done it all out of pure friendship."


It has been very good of him," replied
she, indifferently, " but it is very unpleasant
to be obliged to do the grateful. . You
can manage that department so much
better than I can, that I would rather
leave it to you."

I am sure Aunt Phyllis will think it
very rude if you do not come down when
Mr. Radcliffe has asked for you," I said,
decidedly.

The shot told. My sister thought more
of Aunt Phyllis s opinion than of that of
anyone else, and without another word
she took her brush and smoothed her
golden hair, then pronounced herself
'' ready."

After the first greetings were over,
Florence asked suddenly, " Where is
Aunt Phyllis ? You told me she was
here."

No, I did not ; you misunderstood

me," I returned, '' but I will go and find
her."

Mr. radcliffe gave me a grateful look,
which was not lost upon my sister.

'You will do nothing of the sort,
Miriam ; I will go myself," she said imperiously,
laying a detaining hand upon my
arm.

Miss Florence," began the poor man,
nervously, " kindly let Miss Miriam go ; I
want to speak to you, and you will not
refuse to hear me."

You can have nothing to say to me
which Miriam may not hear," she returned,
coldly. "I am all attention, Mr. Radcliffe."

"But, Florence dear," I exclaimed, "it
would be very unpleasant to me to remain
if Mr. RadclifFe has anything of a private
nature to speak to you about."

If you go, I accompany you," she replied,
decisively.

Was ever man placed in such a position
as to have to propose before a third person !
Was ever girl in a more awkward situation
to have to be the mystic element in such a
scene ! But never had I liked or adjured
our late vicar so well as I did at that
moment. The nervousness vanished from
his manner, replaced by the courage of
despair. He knew that the woman who
could so expose him to ridicule as to make
him propose to her in public, could have
no love for him. Infatuated as he was, he
could see so much, and he knew his chance
was nil, but there was a doggedness and
determination in his nature which made
him still resolve to do that which had
brought him to Feathered.

Pray remain, Miss Costelion," he said,
with quiet, calm enunciation ; " you have
ever been a friend to me, and my feelings
are no secret to you."

Then he turned to mj sister.

I came here to-day to ask you to be
my wife. I had some hope when I entered
this house ; but I may as well tell the
truth, I have none now. Nay, do not
reply to me yet, Miss Florence — hear me
out. I am aware that you are above mein
station, and in nature's gifts ; you are
beautiful, while I am plain, therefore had
sorrow not befallen you, I should have
remained silent ; but ever since I knew
of your uncertain future, I have asked
myself whether I could not comfort you —
whether you would be induced to share
my home, humble though it may be, and
I had come to believe you might find
some happiness in the quiet path of
duty which must be trodden by a pastor s
wife. I ask you still — God knows that
I love you, that you have been my one
dream in months and years of toil and

dull reality — but I ask you now without
hope."

There was a long pause, then my sister
spoke.

'' Mr. Radcliffe, you have been a good
friend to my brothers, and we have all
appreciated your kindness. I am aware
that, in girlish folly, I became your companion,
when it would have been wiser forme
to have kept away from you ; but
please to remember that I was scarcely
more than a child, and you were to me a
middle-aged man. I felt it to be wrong
afterwards, and I asked your forgiveness
the night Lady Lavinia died. That should
have ended the matter."

'' It would have done so had not trouble
overtaken you," he answered, proudly; "but
that only has brought me to your side."

It was a mistake to come," she said,
quickly. " We Costelions cannot forget

our pride in our poverty, aud resent pity
as we resent insult. I think we may consider
the subject closed, Mr. Radcliffe."

Quite closed," he returned, firmly.
Still I love you, Florence Costelion ; and
if ever the day should come when you need
a friend, you will find one in Edward
Radcliffe."

He took her hand and kissed it quietly,
and she did not resist him ; rather she
seemed cowed by his great love. Then he
clasped mine, and silently departed.

"You have broken a noble heart, Florence,"
I exclaimed, indignantly. 'sand to
make him propose before me ! "

It was the very best thing I could
have done for him," she returned, with a
half laugh. " He would not have known
whether he was upon his head or his heels
had you gone away ; as it was, he was
eloquent. It was like the ' finally, dear

brethren ! ' All the difficulties were past,
and he had only to make a finish. He
ought to be very grateful to me ; and as
to a broken heart, he is too good a man
to give way to that sort of thing. He will
accept this disappointment (if he really
ever could have dreamed such a union possible)
as he accepts everything else — from
the Lord ! And now, Miriam, I have a
bone to pick with you : you knew what
was coming, and yet you asked me
down. I wonder you had not more
consideration for Mr. Radcliffe's feelings.
Had it not been for all he has done
for the boys, I should not have treated
him as civilly as I did. It is an insult
to a Costelion to be proposed to by a
nobody ! "

Perhaps it would be well for all the
Costelions to remember that they are now
nobodies ! '" I retorted, indignantly, and

retreated from the room to talk the matter
over with Aunt Phyllis.

I found her in her own little snuggery,
and Bob by her side helping her with her
accounts.

Bob' I said, " I want to speak with
Aunt Phyllis alone for a little while'

He looked in my face for a moment and
a smile swept over his own.

What ! has our late vicar been trying
to cut out poor Herbert Armstrong 1 " he
asked. " I always fancied he had a penchant
for Florence."

"You should not give way to fancies.
Bob," I replied, laughing in spite of myself,
but you need not be afraid of anyone cutting
out Herbert Armstrong, for there is
not another man like him in the world''

Not even me ? " asked Bob, with a

grimace. " Well, you are complimentary,

Miriam ; but I'll forgive you, more espe-
VOL. III. E

chilly as some day you will find out your
mistake, for Master Herbert will turn up
with a ^ yellow gal ' one of these fine days,
and half a dozen little brown kids, and you
will find your hero has forgotten all about
you, and has allied himself to a Hindoo ora
Parsee, or something else as incompatible,
years ago."

I threw auntie's sofa-cushion at his head,
but he dived and missed it, and turned a
saucy look upon us from the door.

It is wonderful how that boy bears up
against his troubles ; they would have
soured the lives of most young men. But
now, Miriam, what have you done with
Mr. Radcliffe ? "

He has gone, auntie," I said, quietly ;
Florence has refused him."

Poor fellow," she returned, " I guessed
that would be the end of it — well ! he has
his work, and he will take comfort in

rendering others happy. Miriam, Mr.
HadcHffe is a good man ; I have no fears
for him."

"Nor I, auntie ; and I do not think our
Florence would have been satisfied with
such a life as he could offer her ; but she
might have dismissed him gently, and with
a kind word."

She might, indeed — more especially ashe
has been so helpful to her brothers ; but
under the circumstances we cannot make
use of him again. Miriam, dear, Trevelyan
must go to school heres Feathered
College is a good one. I know the master,
and feel certain he pushes on his boys
well."

But, auntie, is this expense to fall on
you as well as all the rest of it ? "

'' It won't break our bank," she returned,

cheerfully, " my mother and I have enough

and to spare, and should all come to all, we

E 2

could nanow our expenditure if we were
to trj ; but, at present, it is not needful."

"Auntie, dear," I said, looking lovingly
into the sweet face, " God has raised us up
a good friend in you ; what should we do
without you ? '^

He has set us in families, Miriam, dear,
and it is my duty, as well as my privilege,
to stand by you now that you are in
adversity and sorrow."

I was about to ask whether Sir Charteris
had stood by her in the days of his prosperity,
but I stayed myself in time, for the
remark would have vexed Aunt Phyllis.

You know the old saying that blood is
thicker than water," she continued, smiling.

"Yes, auntie, and sometimes it is so
thick thctt it freezes' I answered, somewhat
bitterly. She raised her face to reply, but
there was a sound of hurrying footsteps up
the stairs, and we both paused to listen.

In another minute Bob was in the room,
looking white and terrified ; he laid his
hand upon Aunt Phyllis's arm. " Come ! "
was all he said, and she obeyed him swiftly.
What could it all mean ? what was the
matter ? I felt bewildered, too bewildered
to move for some moments, then with a
dazed, dull feeling I mechanically followed
them down the stairs, and when I reached
the hall I heard sounds in the room which
had been given to my father for a study.
My brother turned his pale face to mine
pitifully, as I opened the door. ** Parting
from the old place has killed him, Miriam,"
he said, in an awestruck voice ; and I saw
Sir Charters upon the floor ; his features
were fearfully distorted, and I uttered a
low cry of anguish. Aunt Phyllis was
kneeling on the ground beside him, and
her hand was upon his heart.

No, no. Bob, he is not dead ; send for

the doctor mined lately ; and, Miriam, ring
for the servants ; a mustard plaster upon
the back of the neck must be applied at
once."

The doctor lived near, and, for a wonder,
was at home ; but the poultice had been
applied before he arrived, and he desired it
should be kept on, and also ordered others
upon the calves of the legs, and the soles of
the feet. I shall never forget the days that
followed — days of gravest anxiety for my
father's life. All his faults were forgotten ;
his coldness towards me was as though it
had never been, and my love for him was
intensified by his sufferings. The doctor
told us that his nervous system must have
sustained some great shock after a prostrating
strain, and the brain had given
way. He was of opinion that Sir
Charteris's mental sufferings must have
been very great, ere he would have sue-climbed

so suddenly. There was very
little hope of his" life, but we watched over
him day by day, and hour by hour ; the
one prayer of our hearts being, '' Lord save
him ! Lord spare our dear one to us."
Our dear one ! yes ! we all knew how dear
he was now, with the fear of losing him
before us. How thankful T felt in those
sad hours of watching that I had implicitly
obeyed my father's wishes, according to
my aunt's advice. It must be a terrible
thing for a son or daughter to see a parent
die, and to know that they have disregarded
his words and wishes, and that
now that dear one has no power even to
forgive ; not one word to soothe the aching
heart — not one. My father had never
spoken since he was first attacked ; he
was unconscious, and his left side was completely
paralysed. Poor Sir Charteris !
my dear, proud father, lay there senseless

and helpless, and no one could relieve his
sufferings, not even Aunt Phyllis, not even
the doctor. Lady Costelion would not
leave her son, but sat beside his bed, still
and stern, as silent as he, but I saw that
her eyes were wet with tears ; the first I
had ever seen her shed.

CHAPTER XVII.

Time, however, brought a favourable change
in my poor father's condition. It was to
be life for him, not death ; and we thanked
God, going about with a great weight lifted
from our hearts. We were not to lose our
dear one, but were to be permitted to keep
him yet awhile longer. But it soon
became evident that the grim scythe-bearer
had given him the first of his
warnings, although we trusted the other
two were yet a great way off; for Sir
Charteris had lost the use of his left arm.
It almost appeared too, as if a veil had

been drawn over his memory, for he never
by any chance now mentioned our dear old
Devonshire home, and we were afraid to
name it to him, knowing well what the loss
of it had cost him.

I sat with my father at that time more
than I had ever done before ; he seemed
to like to have me by his side, although he
would often bid me to be silent, and remain
so himself; at others he would ask me to
read to him ; sometimes he listened, at
others he would freely confess that he had
not been attending to me ; but he once
added, and I never forgot it, that my voice
lulled him, for it was soft ; that made me
very glad indeed.

I had finished my book, of which Aunt
Phyllis had approved, although she had
suggested many alterations, which, of
course, I had made.

My joy was very great when it was

accepted, and I knew that it was really in
the printer's hands, pledges thereof, in the
shape of proofs, arriving almost daily for
my correction.

Then followed the choice of the binding.
I have published many books since, and
the covers are of small importance ta me
now, but that first one I did think a good
deal about. A whole night I lay awake,
balancing the advantages and disadvantages
of maroon, cuir, violet, blue, and green, and
after all settled on neither, having espied
at the publisher's office a rich binding of
coral colour, embossed with black ivy leaves,
which took my fancy.

All with reference to my book was a
secret between Aunt Phyllis and myself;
for Sir Charteris had a birthday coming,
and I much wished that it should be a
surprise as my gift to him upon the
occasion.

The day at length arrived, and with a
full heart I carried my offering to the
study. I suppose most people are proud of
their first set of books. I know I gazed
fondly at the three volumes as they lay so
neatly side by side with the gold letters
showing up my name so well. " Miriam
Costelion ! " how pretty it looked in
print !

"Why, what is that?" said Trevelyan,
coming up unheard, so deeply was I engrossed
by my admiration, and stretching
out his hand to make a grab at the books.

Oh 1 don't, Tre, don't dirty them ; they
are for papa's birthday present." And then
I added, " Now are they not lovely ? "

How can I tell, if you won't let me
look at them," he growled.

Look at them ; of course you may ;
but don't touch them, there's a good
boy."

*' Well ! I'm blessed ! " lie cried, "do you
mean that you wrote them. Why, then
I'll try my hand too."

You ! " I returned scornfully, and
I laughed.

'* Now, look here, Miriam, don't laugh at
me," said Trevelyan, crossly, " I daresay I
have quite as many brains as you have ;
and I know a sight more Greek and Latin
than you do, I'll warrant. You think
you're a great swell because you've written
a book, but you have only had the
pleasantness part of it at present. The
critics will take the cu7'l out of your tail, I
can promise you ! '* With which polite
speech he made a grimace and bolted,
perhaps fearing retaliation in some form.

'* Papa," I said, as I entered the room,
book in hand, " I have brought you a
present."

That is a pity, Miriam, for you can have

no money to spare ; but what is it ?
books?"

Yes, papa, do you like the binding ? "
'* Rather too bright for my taste ; but
why, Miriam, you surely don't expect me
to read this ; it is a novel, and I have not
read one for over twenty years ; they are
not in my line."

'' Still, I hope you will like this one,
pa-pa," I replied, between laughing and
crying, for I was excited and somewhat
disappointed. *' Please look at it. I am
sure you will read this one, for it is mine."
"Yours," he echoed; "Miriam, what do
you mean T Then he put on his spectacles
and examined the books minutely. "Why
did you not tell me what you were about ?"
he asked, at length.

I wanted to surprise you, papa."
Well ! it cannot be helped now, but it
was scarcely wise of you to publish in your

own name until you had found out how
your works are received by the public."

I shall not write anything I am
ashamed of, papa," I answered, resentfully,
" and I am so disappointed. I
thought you would be pleased, and I am
so anxious to make money."

'few do so by light literature, Miriam ;
where one succeeds, a thousand fail."

But I suppose all may earn something,
if it be ever such a little " (my tail
beginning to get out of curl already, as Trevelyan
had expressed it). Then I raised my
eyes to my father's. "I thought you would
have been pleased," I faltered, and a pause
followed. After awhile he drew me towards
him.

'there, child, do not fret, we must have
no tears on my birthday. I will read your
book, and no doubt I shall like it; but you
see you took me by surprise a little."

But the kind words had come too late.
I was thoroughly disappointed, and went
with my trouble to Aunt Phyllis.

She was sitting before her writing table :
an open letter was in front of her, her head
was resting upon her hand, and her face
was hidden from me ; but I felt that something
had happened to agitate her.

She started when she saw me. " I did
not hear you come in, dear," she said,
softly, and I noticed that she was much
excited.

I went to her side, and, kneeling down,
placed my arm about her. " Dear auntie,"
I asked, " what has happened ? what is the
matter?"

"Miriam, do you remember my telling
you that I had faith that all would come
right one day between Ralph and me.
Well ! dear, I have now hope as well as
faith. His father has sent for me — he is

ill, and wants me to be with him, and,
Miriam, that acknowledgment from him is
a great deal."

"Oh! Aunt Phyllis, I am so glad," I
cried, "so glad that you are to be rewarded
at length for all your goodness ; so glad that,
after all these years of patient waiting, you
are to be happy at last. Auntie, dear, I
could dance for joy."

You have a fellow feeling for me, dear,
have you not V she said, with her sweet
smile, from which the sadness seemed to
have died out.

"And you will go at once ?" I asked.

No, not to-day, for several reasons :
first, it is your father's birthday, and I
should like to dine with him ; secondly, I
think it will be better to reply by letter,
a telegram might alarm Ralph's father,
you know."

How kind, how thoughtful you are,

VOL. III. F

dear Aunt Phyllis," I cried, giving her a
hearty kiss. " In your place I should have
thought of nothing and nobody, but should
have just run away to secure my happiness."


Would you, indeed V returned my
aunt, laughing. "And now, child, what
does Sir Charteris say to your book V

I had gone there intending to tell Aunt
Phyllis all about my disappointment, but
now I determined not to let any sorrow of
mine dim the new-born brightness of her
life, and I parried her question.

*papa will read my book, auntie, and
hopes to like it. I must await his verdict
patiently."

"Patience is a virtue, dear Miriam, and
do you know, I think it is generally rewarded."


'rand I am sure it ought to be, auntie,"
I added, decidedly.

'what ought to be, will be, Miriam,
you may rest assured of that ; and now
tell me what Miss Caroline said to you — I
know you heard from her this morning."

'* She tells me that her eldest sister is
peacefully sinking. Such a death must be
very beautiful, I think — no pain, no suffering,
but just a gentle translation from this
life to one better. I expect her next letter
will inform me that the Montagues, who
once were seven, now number only two."

It is sweet to think that the seven will
one day be re-united," said Aunt Phyllis,
dreamily. " Miriam, I often reflect that
if our paths are dark here, if our hoped-for
joys are unrealised, we have something
better than earthly happiness to look forward
to. Will you try and remember this,
dear Miriam, if you are denied the life you
would choose for yourself?"

And I promised that I would.

f2

Sir Charteris liked my book, and I heard
no more about my not publishing under
my own name.

Aunt Phyllis started off to nurse her
lover's father with a light heart, and Mrs.
Armatage affectionately bade her Godspeed
; but days passed into weeks and
she did not return. She wrote to us that
she and the old man were completely reconciled,
if it can be called a quarrel where
the ill-feeing has been all on one side.

In one of her letters she told me that
her old friend had written for his son to
come home, his great wish now being to
see her united to him. So dear Aunt
Phyllis was really to be happy after all.

I had had a presentiment of evil ever
since she had left Greenholm, but what
were my sickly fancies when placed against
plain facts ? All was to end happily, and
I was very glad for her sake.

During lier absence one day when I
entered my father's study, I found him
absorbed in a letter, and without really
looking at it, the knowledge came to me
that it was from Herbert Armstrong, and
my heart gave a great glad cry ; but I was
silent.

"Mii-iam, is that you?" said Sir Charteris,
dreamily. '*Ah ! yes, well, sit down,
child, sit down, this is from Captain Armstrong.
Like everyone else he has heard
that I am a beggar, and he has written to
offer to take you off my hands, and thinks
I shall be glad to let you go under my
altered circumstances''

He never meant that, papa," I said,
resentfully. "How can you say such
things? Herbert is the soul of honour;
no unworthy thought could possibly enter
his mind. Oh ! father, whatever your answer
may be, do him justice. As for myself,

I think it noble of him to come
forward when we are in trouble. Thank
God, he loves me for myself, and for myself
alone."

"You speak strongly, Miriam."

Not more strongly than I feel, believe
me, papa ; remember I have loved him ever
since he saved my life, seven yeares ago."

You are open with regard to your feelings,"
said my father, satirically. '' Most
maidens speak with more reserve, whatever
they may feel."

Papa, what will you say to him ? what
answer will you give T I asked, with painful
eagerness.

"The only one that is open to me,"
he replied, coldly. "I would accept no
civility, acknowledge no fellowship with
these people when I was in the zenith of
my prosperity. I refused this young man's
hand for you when I had a roof of my own

under which to shelter you ; and now that
I am a beggar I cannot change. No,
Miriam, if you have one grain of the
family pride, you will see that it is impossible.
You are a good girl, and had I
seen my way to make you happy without
sacrificing my dignity I would have done
so, but as it is, it is out of the question."

Father, I love him," I pleaded, pitifully;
"my whole happiness is bound up in
him — indeed, indeed it is."

A long pause ensued; then my father
rose and kissed me. "I am very sorry,
Miriam, but it cannot be helped."

That was all. They were few words, but
they were enough to dash the cup of happiness
from my lips, and to leave all dark and
dreary, and I knew that again my future
had been sacrificed to my father's pride.

What right had he to be proud now?
My whole heart cried out against it. Why

was my life and that of my lover to be
darkened and blighted thus 1 surely, surely
it was unjust. I fought the battle out in
my fathers study (sitting upon the low
chair which Aunt Phyllis's kind hands had
placed there for me) with my face hidden.
I did not wish him to see the struggle
which was going on in my mind. I was of
age, why should I not assert my independence
? why should I not express my determination
to marry the man I loved ? Oh !
I was sorely, sorely tempted, but a vision of
Aunt Phyllis's dear, patient face came to me,
and I resolved to be patient too. I verily
believe she was my good angel. Dear Aunt
Phyllis!

After the struggle was past I arose, pale
and trembling, but triumphant.

"Ver)' well, papa, I bow to your decisions'
that was all I could say, and I
think my obedience touched him, for he

took both my hands in his and answered
me more earnestly than was his wont.

"Miriam, you are a brave girl; who
knows but what things may come right
some day — indeed, I would try to like the
young fellow for your sake, if it were
possible, but it is not."

I strove to smile, but neither words nor
smiles would come, and I crept away to
my own room — that is, the room I shared
with my sister. It was empty, and I flung
myself upon my knees by my bedside to
pray artlessly for strength. It was
utterly impossible for me to form sentences
or to put my thoughts and troubles into
words, but still I felt comforted and
refreshed, and knew that my God was
near me in my tribulation. Then I
arose and had a good cry : most women
know what a beneficial effect that has
upon one, and so it had upon me. Presently

my sister came in and looked at
me keenly.

Miriam," she said, " you have been crying
; what is the matter ? Is there any
fresh trouble V

"No, none that will touch anyone but
myself."

"Miriam, I insist on knowing what is
wrong. If you do not tell me I will write
to Aunt PhylHs."

"I do not wish to keep it from you,
Flo," I answered, sadly; "all the world
may know it for what I care. Captain
Armstrong has heard of our misfortunes,
and has written to offer to me again — at
least, to papa."

Oh ! I am so glad, Miriam," said my
sister warmly, " Herbert Armstrong is a
good fellow, one of the right sort."

"Yes, dear, he is all that," I replied
quietly, " but papa will refuse him again."

"Impossible!" cried my sister indignantly.
" Miriam, you should have spoken
up yourself, you should have told him you
loved the man. You should " —

*stop, dear, do not excite yourself; I
did tell him, but he was obdurate, I shall
never now be Herbert's wife ;" and the
tears which were near the surface overflowed,
and ran races down my white
cheeks.

"This is injustice," cried my sister
passionately, " and I hate that sort of thing.
I will go and have it out with papa myself ;
it is scandalous to treat you so'' and she
sprang impetuously towards the door.

Flo ! you will only make matters
worse," I pleaded, " you will only vex
papa ; please, please, don't go." But with
her usual wilfulness, she was gone, and I
could not stop her.

In about a quarter of an hour she came

slowly up the stairs. I had not looked for
any good, had not hoped for any, but I
raised my face questioningly to hers, as
she entered the room. She was flushed,
and her eyes had an angry light in them.
She threw her arms about my neck ; "It
is shameful, and so I have told him V she
cried hotly.

'' Oh ! Florence, dear, you did it in
kindness to me, I know, but I hope you
remembered how ill he has been. I trust
you did not worry him," I began. But she
stopped me.

"There, Miriam, you are just Hke a
married woman ; if anyone tries to protect
them from their husband's ill-usage, they
turn round and declare they like it. I
have no patience with such sentimental
nonsense ; you don't like it, so why pretend
to do so."

I do not pretend any such thing, indeed,

dear, and my father's decision has made me
very miserable ; but I cannot act against
his wishes. How could I expect to be
happy if I did ?"

"Many girls have married to please
themselves, and seem contented enough'

*' Seem, yes ; but you cannot look
beneath the surface, you cannot read their
hearts. I know Aunt PhyUis would say T
was right. How I wish she were here ! "

We remained in our room together talking
until afternoon tea was announced. In
auntie's absence either Florence or I
always made it, so we hurried down to
perform our usual duties, when to our
surprise we found a stranger with Mrs.
Armatage in the drawing-room, who was
introduced to us as Mr. Chilton. We had
not heard the name before, but her affectionate
manner towards him soon showed
us that they were old friends. They did

not, however, talk of the days that were
gone, as one might have expected, but just
joined in the general topics of conversation
going on around, and if they had had anything
of a more confidential nature to
speak of, they had got it over before we
came down. We found that our new
acquaintance was not quite a bird of passage,
but was going to stay at Greenholm,
at any rate for some days, and he and
Mrs. Armatage evidently had a secret
between them which was of a pleasant
nature, for they looked at one another and
smiled every now and then,

Mr. Chilton was a splendid looking man,
tall and powerfully built, with such an air
of strength about him that he might have
been painted for a Samson, only he certainly
had not long hair ; on the contrary, it was
of a rich warm brown, not too straight, but
closely cropped around the well formed,

somewhat massive head. The eyes were
dark slate colour, with lashes black and
curved.

His complexion was bronzed and healthy
looking, his nose straight and well cut,
while the lower part of the face was entirely
hidden by a long moustache, whiskers and
beard, of various tints, shading from the
colour of his hair to an almost golden
hue.

When he smiled, a set of strong white
teeth gleamed out pleasantly, and you got
a glimpse of a well shaped mouth ; his air
was polished, though not strictly conventional
From the first it was difficult to
treat hun as a stranger ; his eyes would
rest upon you with such a kindly interest,
and he imbued you with a feeling of confidence
before you had spoken half a dozen
words to him.

Florence made the tea that afternoon.

and I saw him watch her white hands
wandering among the pretty china cups.

Flo's hands were certainly one of her
great beauties ; rather long, with privet-heed
tapering fingers, and pink shell-like,
almond shaped nails ; such aristocratic hands,
very unlike my small brown paws, which I
must have inherited from my mother, for
no thorough Costelion would have owned
them. Mr. Chilton seemed struck with
my sister's beauty, and I did not wonder
at it, for she was, as she had herself said,
quite as pretty now, in her frail delicate
loveliness, as she had been when her fresh
bright colouring had been so much admired,
nor was I greatly surprised to see how
interested she was in him, for he was a man
to command interest whether you willed
it or no.

The dinner hour seemed to come more
quickly than usual that afternoon, for

we had been listening to Mr. Chilton's
adventures by flood and field ; not that he
had ever been a soldier, but he had been a
traveller in many lands, and had abundance
of strange tales to tell of what he had seen
and heard, though he spoke little of what
he had done, for which I liked him.
Scarcely could Othello's stories have been
more enchaining ; and I could not help
comparing our pale golden-haired beauty to
that ill-fated fair Desdemona, as she sat
with her blue eyes resting upon the dark
bronzed face, so intensely listening to every
word, with a faint flush hovering on the
pale cheek ever and anon.

We dressed for dinner in our simple
fashion, and I left my sister before the glass,
to run downstairs to send off a post-card
before the bell should ring.

As I entered the drawing-room, Mrs.
Armatage and her friend were seated in

VOL. III. G

front of the fire talking, and I conclude
they did not hear me enter, for they took
no notice of my presence.

And when do you expect Phyllis back?"
he asked.

'' That I cannot tell," she answered, " but
I will let her know you are here."

No, no, that would spoil my pleasure ;
I must surprise her, and see how she looks.
I have often pictured the meeting, Mrs.
Armatage, I wonder will it be like my
ideal."

I coughed, to rivet their attention, and
he turned round at once.

Have you been listening to our secrets.
Miss Costelion," he asked, with his genial
smile.

I do not know whether it was a secret,"
I answered, " but I certainly overheard you
say you wanted to surprise Aunt Phyllis."

"And so I do, young lady. Now, I

wonder whether you have ever heard your
aunt speak of me T he questioned with a
peculiar look.

I do not remember ever to have heard
your name mentioned."

Was it my fancy, or did his face fall.

*well, perhaps you will humour my
when nevertheless, and if you should be
writing to your aunt please do not say I
am here."

*' Of course I shall not refer to it," I said.
"If grand mamma thinks she ought to
know it, she can inform her without my
interference."

I see you are a very sensible girl," he
replied, with a smile, "you and I are sure
to be friends. Do you know, you are very
like your aunt ? "

People say so, but I fear it is no compliment
to Aunt Phyllis ; she has such a sweet,

dear face, I could never be really like her."

G 2

Shall I tell you a secret ? " he laughed,
leaning towards me. '* Now, I should
not be one bit surprised if some day
yours will be found to be a sweet, dear
face too, by some one. We will ask
your aunt her opinion when she comes
home."

Then I went to the other end of the
room to write the card, and I heard Mrs.
Armatage say, " In your place, I should goto
Glen Avon, but you know best."

No, I will meet her here'' he returned,
decisively, "that was what he wrote to me.
Had he been worse, I might have done so,
and indeed should have done so, but she
tells you he is better''

Florence here entered the room, dressed
in a plain, black velveteen costume, which
showed off the tall, slight form, with a
white ruffle around her slender neck and
wrists, which suited her style well, and the

handsome, grey eyes of our new made acquaintance
followed her.

Sir Charteris had now to be introduced,
and Lady Costelion, who informed me, in
an audible voice, which was intended for a
whisper, " that he was a very fine young
man' Of course he was, there could be
no two opinions on that point ; but, I felt
uncomfortable that he should have heard
his personal appearance thus canvassed.
She was growing a little deaf, and was
not now clever in the modulation of her
voice, and besides, it was not as low
and soft as it probably had been in her
youth. Has not some wise one remarked,
that in old age the ancient
men become old women, and the women
old men ?

Certain, it was, that Lady Costelion's
voice had become somewhat masculine, and
Mr. Chilton obviously heard her remark,

for he flashed a look of amusement at me
across the room.

It was evident that Sir Charteris liked
him, and the evening passed ois pleasantly,
aided by a little music.

My sister and I sang some Italian duets,
which he seemed to like, for he stood beside
the piano, and never spoke one word until
we had finished.

I must say it is more agreeable to have
an appreciative audience, even though it
consists of only one or two persons, than to
be talked doivn, which is a sensation vocalists
have to experience sometimes. When
my sister and I were in our room that
night, of course we spoke of the addition to
our circle, but I found her unusually reticent
in giving any opinion upon Mr.
Chilton, whereas, I was warm in my praises
of him.

The next day broke dark and gloomy ;

heavy rain fell in wind-driven showers, in
which hail mingled, striking our windowpanes
fiercely, while the trees waved their
bare branches and the bushes bowed their
heads before it. Not a gleam of sun shone
out ; it was as much as we could see to eat
our breakfasts. Florence usually partook of
hers in bed, but dull though the morning
was, she was up and dressed ere the prayer
bell rang.

That forenoon was a long one for her.
She was restless and unsettled, apparently,
for the book was laid aside unread, and from
time to time she wandered to the window
and looked out, uttering her disgust at the
weather upon each occasion. Mr. Chilton
was writing letters in the dining room, and
I think she was wishing for his companionship.
I did my best to amuse her, but
unsuccessfully. After awhile, a firm step
came through the hall, the door opened,

and Mr. Chilton entered the room. Florence
was standing with her arm resting on
the window, and her head upon her hand,
her attitude bespeaking despondency, and
she did not move at all when he came in.
He watched her for a few seconds, then
went to her side, and laying his hand upon
her arm, said gently, " Miss Florence, is
anything the matter ? "

I raised my head as he spoke and looked
at them, and my heart gave a great bound
for I saw my sister Hft her eyes to his face,
and I could read their expression. I had
never seen it in hers before, but I had in
Herbert's, and I knew it meant love. A
great wave of colour dyed her cheeks, and
faded out, leaving her whiter than before ;
then the eyes fell, and the slender fingers
were moving nervously among the leaves of
a fern which stood there. She had only
met this stranger yesterday, and already

she loved him ! Then I turned my gaze
upon him. Had he, too, noticed those outward
signs of agitation ? I think he had,
for there was a strange look in his face
which I had not seen there before, a look
of wonder, and of tender pity ; a look,
which a strong man might give to a tiny,
wounded bird, lying helplessly in his hand,
trusting to him to do something to ease its
sufferings. Yes ! it was a loving compassionate
look, which Mr. Chilton gave my
sister. Then he spoke. " Have you nothing
to amuse you this dull day ? Come, I will
challenge you for a game of chess''

*' I only know the moves, and I daresay
you are a good player."

Well, I can give you some pieces, and
that will make us equal. What do you
say?"

I shall like it, if you will teach me how
to play properly ; only, I make one bargain,

don't give me the game ; I can't bear to be
treated like a baby."

I will do my best," he returned, with
mock gravity, but with a merry twinkle in
his eyes.

And now, Miss Florence, where is the
chess board kept ? "

"Miriam knows, she will fetch it," answered
my sister ; and I rose to do so, but
he laid his hand lightly on my arm and
stayed me.

I couldn't think of your going ; tell me
where it is."

I don't know how to explain it to you,
you would not be able to find it I expect."

'^ Try me," he laughed, ** why I know every
hole and corner in this dear old house."

He soon returned with it in triumph,
and in a few minutes, the pieces were
placed, and the game was in progress.

That was not the last game by many

played between these two. It seemed that
Mr. Chilton devoted himself to the amusement
of my sister.

I had kept my word ; in writing to Aunt
PhyUis, I had not mentioned our visitor's
name, and my note had gone in one of
Mrs. Armatage's letters to her daughter.
She had also followed out her friend's
wishes, but she had begged Aunt Phyllis
to come back, if only for a day or two (this
I heard afterwards), and she, fearing that
something must be wrong at home, packed
up a Httle box and came without loss of time,
sending no announcement of her advent.

It was the fourth day of Mr. Chilton's
stay at Greenholm. Afternoon tea was
waiting, the gas was burning brightly overhead;
the click of Grandmamma Armatage's
knitting needles was distinctly audible,
A little Queen Anne's kettle was hissing
and spluttering upon the small table at

which I was presiding. I poured out the
tea, and carried some to the two chess
players, and had just returned to mj chair,
when something impelled me to look up,
and I saw, though no one else did, that
Aunt Phyllis had entered the room. Her
eyes were rivetted upon Mr. Chilton ; she
signed to me to be silent, and walked
quietly across the room, where she could
see his face more plainly, and just then, a
cry escaped her, it was only one word, but
it told me all, " Ralph ! "

She had found him out ; the bearded
man who had gone away as a youth, had
been recognized by love's intuition.

In a moment he was upon his feet.

'* Phyllis ! have you come home 1 "

And so they met, after many years.
He took her by both her hands (oh ! how
they trembled, but it was with joy), and
looked Ion into the sweet, pale face ; and.

surely I did not imagine it, the light faded
from his own. Still, he received her tenderly,
lovingly, but had I not heard the
one word, " Ralph," I should not have
known by any sign from him, that he
was the lover for whom my dear Aunt
Phyllis had waited so long and patiently;
and a sad sinking seized upon my heart
as I saw the man's earnest grey eyes
leave Aunt Phyllis's face, from which
youth had passed, and settle for an instant,
with a glance which was one almost
of fear, upon that of the beautiful girl,
which was even then turned up to his
so eloquently.

Did Aunt Phyllis see that look as well as
I ? She parted from the clasp of his hand
and said, simply.

You should have let me know you were
here, Ralph ; I was not prepared for this
meetings

'' He would not let me tell you," struck
in Mrs. Armatage.

No, I wanted to surprise you," he said,
kindly ; " but I did not mean that our
meeting should be quite like this," and he
glanced lightly around, and I knew that
he had wished to meet her alone.

I have spoilt quite a pretty tableau,"
said Aunt Phyllis, nervously. "When I
entered the room I thought Ferdinand and
Miranda were before me ; and now, in
greeting my old friend I have neglected all
else."

Then she kissed us each, and called me
to go upstairs with her.

miriam, Miriam, I told you that he
was faithful, that he would come back ;
but, oh ! dear child, I think that he was
disappointed. I saw his face change. I
had not thought of it before, I have not
noticed it myself, looking at the gradual

alteration in my glass from day to day ;
but after all these years it must have come
upon him with a shock. He had kept mein
his heart young as when we parted, and
now he finds me middle aged. It is sad for
him, Miriam, for he is in his prime, the
same dear face ennobled, the same manly
figure perfected. Do you wonder that I
love him, dear ? I have been patient. Was
he not worth waiting for ? " and she smiled
at me through her tears. But they were
happy tears, even though there was a vein
of disappointment in her mind that she was
not still fresh and young to greet the lover
who had been true to her for so many
years.

** Miriam, dear," she continued, " I have
a secret for you. Mr. Chilton has consented
to our union. He has grown very fond of
me, and cannot bear that I should be
absent from his bedside, so I am going back

to him tomorrow ; but, for the present, I
shall not tell Ralph, nor shall I allow any
announcement of our engagement."

I raised my face to hers, interrogatively,
and saw that she was trembling.

Auntie, dear auntie ! " I said, with a
sinking heart. ** What is it ? "

*'I should not blame him, Miriam, if
finding me different from what he had
always pictured me, he "

I should then ! " I answered, hotly.
He could not surely be so ungenerous."

That he could never be," she replied,
firmly ; " but I will wait, I will make quite
sure before it becomes irrevocable — now no
one knows — there are none to point him
out as having broken faith. Had we been
together all these years the change in me
would have come to him as it has done to
those around me, so gradually as to be
scarcely observed, and his love would not

have waned." Then she added, nervously,
*' I suppose he lias been good friends with
you, dear, and — Florence."

There vas a strange pause before the
utterance of my sister s name. Had she too
seen that look in her eyes ? and how had
she read the answering one in his ?

Auntie," I said, impetuously ; *' Auntie,
you should not doubt him. He has been
faithful to you through long years, and has
come back to make you his wife. Declare
your engagement at once, and get married
without loss of time, and Flo and I will be
your bridesmaids."

'« Why do you advise this, Miriam ? "
asked my aunt, quietly.

Oh ! Aunt Phyllis, I have no especial
reason," I replied, reddening under her gaze,
for I knew my words were not strictly true ;
** but surely you have both waited long
enough. I hate unnecessary delays, and

VOL. III. H

Shakespeare evidently agreed with me.
Do you remember his words in King
John ? * Defer no time, delays have dangerous
ends.' So, if he begs very hard,
you will give him a nice, kind answer, will
you not? and please tell me when I may
congratulate him''

I will think it all over, dear child ; but
mind, until I release you, I expect you to
keep my confidence."

You need not fear that. Aunt Phyllis."
I am sure I need not, Miriam."
Then a tap came to the door, and I
opened it. It was Mr. Ralph Chilton.

Is your aunt here, Miss Miriam ? " he
asked. " Mrs. Armatage told me she had
gone to her room ; " and Aunt Phyllis herself
came forward to answer him.

'' You need not mind my little Miriam,
Ralph. She is my very own niece, you
know, my dear sister's child, and she is my

constant ; but she is a safe one, and will
keep our secret."

I have come to speak to you about that
very thing, dear Phyllis," he said gently.
'* We have had enough of waiting. I do
not think Miriam need be discreet any
longer. You see, child, I have dropped the
Miss, now you know that I am to be your
imcle, and I think I may be allowed to give
you each a kiss," which he did accordingly.
"And now, Phyllis, let us go and have a
quiet chat in your little snuggery. I have
been in there when Miriam was in possession."


So I crept away, and left them together,

hoping earnestly that they would arrange

matters speedily ; but I could not shake

the weight off my heart which had settled

there, for whichever way I looked there was

trouble. Either Florence or Aunt Phyllis

must suffer, that was very evident : but

H 2

surely it would be better that it should bethe
former. Her love was but a sapling,
and could have but little root, while Aunt
Phyllis's was a part of her very life. As
for Mr. Chilton, I had a strange intuition
that he would not be altogether happy
either way.

That my sister had attracted his fancy
was to me evident ; but I could not believe
that any one could supplant so rare a
woman in his love. I then went to sit
awhile with my father.

Miriam," he said, " I have read your
book, and like it ; there is sound commonsense
displayed in its pages, and what is
still more wonderful for a woman, you have
spared us the millinery department. The
plot Ls healthy, if not very profound, and it
is handled prettily, even pathetically in
some places. I did not think you could do
so well."

Such praise from my father was almost
too much for me.

Papa, do you really mean all that ? ''
I asked, between laughing and crying, " I
am so very, very glad ! "

♦ * ♦

Well ! Aunt Phyllis ! " I queried, when
we met again. " Have you settled it ? "

Yes ! we have decided to wait'' she
replied, lifting her eyes to those of the only
other person present — Mr. Chilton.

Say rather you have, Phyllis ; you
know my wishes. We have no time to
spare, we are both growing old."

"You mean that I am, Ralph ; there is
no sign of age in you," she said, softly.
Then she stooped over his chair, and passed
her hand lovingly through his warm, brown
hair. '^ There is not one silver thread yet ;
but I cannot say the same."

Silver is pretty when set in ebony," he

replied kindly. " I do not mind grey
hair;" then he turned to me. 'miriam,
cannot you help me persuade your aunt that
a wedding in the house is a delightful
thing ? " but she answered him.

You seem to make sure of your father s
consent' and she smiled.

Yes I I am certain of that now, and it
is a mystery to me why he ever withheld it.
He would not have written and told me to
return to England, and to visit Greenholm
before coming to him, had he not meant to
show his objection was withdrawn, nor
would he have sent for you to nurse him ;
and it was very good of you to go, after
the way he had treated you. I shall runover
to Glen Avon and get the old man to
help me persuade you now, Phyllis ; but do
you know, I never expected you to be so
obdurate."

The smile faded from my aunt's lips.

If I am so, it is for your sake, Ralph, not
my own ; but I do not think you must take
your father by surprise ; he is not well enough
to bear a shock, even a joyful one. Suppose
you follow me the day after tomorrow."

"Follow you?"

Yes. Did I not tell you I only got
leave for one day ? "

Then I shall return with you."

As he spoke, and before my aunt could
reply to him, the servant entered with a
telegram on a salver, and handed it to her.
Telegrams were not in my line at all, and
always seemed to be harbingers of ill-omen :
but Aunt Phyllis opened it with unflinching
hands. Her composure, however, did
not last long, for in another moment tears
rose to her dark eyes, and she murmured
in an agitated voice,

Ralph ! dear Ralph ! he is worse. We
must go to him at once."

CHAPTER XVIII.

When Aunt Phyllis and Mr. Ralph
Chilton reached Glen Avon the drawn
down blinds told the sad news before they
even came to the door. The death of its
owner had been both sudden and unexpected.
The doctor, however infallible
generally, had upon this occasion been
mistaken, for he had told Aunt Phyllis she
might safely leave, as his patient was likely
to linger for weeks.

With this doctor the dying man left a
letter addressed to Miss Armatage, marked
private," and this the man of medicine

delivered to her when alone, so that Ralph
Chilton knew nothing of the matter.

When my aunt found that all was over,
she told Mr. Ralph that conventionality
demanded that she should return to Green-holm
at once. So after giving the necessary
instructions with reference to his
father's funeral he escorted her home again.

We were very much surprised when
they broke in upon our assembled circle, as
may be imagined. Colonel Markham had
been dining with us, and had just told us
an anecdote of one of his experiences in
India, when the sound of wheels was heard
approaching the door, and in a few minutes
one of the servants came to me and
whispered that I was wanted in Miss
Armatage's little room. When I reached
it I found Aunt Phyllis.

It was all over before we got back,"
she said, brokenly. " Poor old man ! how

I wish I had not left him, he had such a
horror of dying alone ; but it is too late
now to regret anything."

Oh ! auntie, dear, I am so sorry ; and
how tired and white you look ; and I daresay
you have had nothing to eat all day."

'' Not much, certainly, but we should like
some tea quietly up here, you can manage
that for us, can you not, and then go back
to the table and take no notice. When
Colonel Markham is gone it will be time
enough to tell our sad news, and Ralph
will be undisturbed alone with me here.
He was sadly upset at being too late for
one kind word."

Is Mr. Kalph here, auntie ; where is
he?"

I left him downstairs. Find him, there's
a dear child, and tell him to come up ; and
you won't forget the tea 1"

No, auntie, I won't forget ; " then 1

kissed her in silence, there seemed so Utile
to say. I opened the doors of the downstairs
rooms one by one, seeking Mr.
Chilton, the drawing-room being the last,
and to my surprise T saw my sister, who
I had left at the table, standing by his side
holding his hand. "Dear Mr. Chilton,
dear Ralph," she was saying, her blue eyes
swimming in tears, " no one can feel for
you as I do ; oh ! if only I could comfort
you, if only I might."

"Your sympathy does comfort me," he
returned, softly. " You are a dear, feeling
child."

"No, I am not a child, Mr. Chilton, do
not think of me as such," and she
stretched out her second hand to him.
Think of me as your friend ; promise me
that."

For a moment he looked at her — what a
strange, tender look that was. " I promise."

*' Florence' I cried. "My dear, why
have you left the table ? "

Have I not as much right to do so as
you, Miriam ? " she asked, coldly.

"Hardly. Aunt Phyllis sent for me."
Then I turned to Ralph Chilton. "Mr.
Chilton, my aunt is waiting for you upstairs
in her study, she asked me to tell
you." And as I turned away I felt he
must think me wanting in feeling, so I
said, " She has told me of your trouble, and
I am very sorry for you. You believe me,
do you not ? " I added, for his expression
of face was unusual.

He sighed heavily. "You are all very
kind, Miriam, kinder than I deserve ; I
will go to Phyllis at once," and he left the
room without another word.

Florence, shall we not go back to the
dining-room ? auntie wishes it."

I shall remain where I am," she decided.

And I went away with a sad heart, gave
orders for tea to be taken up to the little
study, and re-entered the dining-room.
Colonel Markham was just starting off on a
new tack. Sir Charteris looked at me
somewhat sternly, and Mrs. Armatage
made a signal to Lady CosteHon that she
wished to retire.

"So we are not to hear your story,
Colonel, after all," I remarked, for the sake
of something to say.

But indeed you shall. Miss Costelion,"
he replied ; "it will keep till we reach the
drawing-room. I am honoured by your
wish to hear my little tale."

So I was to be punished for my small
piece of politeness I

The gentlemen joined us earlier than
usual that night, and the Colonel, not
obvious of his promise, drew his chair
before the fire, stretched out his thin legs,

which always seemed to be keeping imaginary
spurs out of the way, placed his
elbows on the arms of his chair, and gently
poised his finger tips, tapping them
together from time to tune, while his white
moustache seemed to rise at the ends ashe
began.

Well, ladies, as you wish to hear
it, I have kept my friend, Sir Charteris,
waiting for this little experience of mine,
which I will put into as few words as
possible. I was staying at Delhi on a visit
to an old Mend who was in the artillery —
time flies, that must be fifteen years ago.
We were dining at the mess of the Native
Infantry Regiment then quartered there,
when the conversation turned upon snakes
and snake charmers. There was a young
griff at the table (that, ladies, is the name
we old Indians give to a man who has not
been a year in the country). He was an

artillery officer, and had only joined a few
months, and was rather inclined to be
conceited, to say nothing of his impertinence.
This youngster's name was Adams,
and looking across the table he addressed
his conversation to my friend, who was the
Major of his own regiment, and said, ' I
will bet you fifty rupees to ten that I will
do what no snake charmer in India dares
to do.'

' Indeed, Mr. Adams,' returned the
Major. ' Every one knows you are a most
wonderful young man, but we should like
to hear what particular feat you are now
proposing to perform.'

'' All at table laughed, but Mr. Adams
was not abashed. ' I will back myself
to pull a cobra out of any hole you may
have him placed in, by his tail,' he said,
slowly and clearly.

For a moment every one was silent, then

a buzz succeeded, the various officers
present being desirous of closing with his
offer.

*' At last the Major spoke out. * I am
not a betting man, Mr. Adams,' he said,
*but on this occasion I cannot let your
challenge pass ; in fact, I will give you any
odds you like that the thing is not to be
done — a thousand rupees to one.'

'*'Done with you. Major,' returns the
young man, eagerly ; after which, bets
were made on all sides, young Adams
accepting them with perfect coolness and
composure.

'* If I mistake not, this was on a Friday
evening, and the following Monday was
fixed for the wonderful event to take place.

'^ In the meantime a snake charmer was
to be engaged to bring a fine cobra with
poisonous fangs to the scene of action.
There was great excitement in the station,

and not only all the gentlemen, but the
ladies expressed their intention of being
present to see this unprecedented sport.
In fact, young Adams had succeeded in
rivetting public attention upon himself; at
any rate for the time being. You will
understand, ladies, that life in India is very
different to what it is in England. During
the hours when you are abroad, we are
behind closed parties, and when you are
asleep we are taking our exercise, so that
it was soon after five in the morning that
we assembled on the Delhi Maiden, or
esplanade.

Mr. Adams very soon turned up, dressed
in white flannels, and looking very confident.
The snake charmer was also there with one
of the familiar round flag baskets in which
they carry their reptiles.

We closely examined the snake to assure
ourselves that its fangs were poisonous. A

VOL. III. I

convenient hole was found in the adjoining
common for the cobra to go into when
released. The eventful moment came.
Adams placed himself in an imposing
attitude, one arm behind his back, the
other stretched over the hole ready for
action. The cobra was placed upon the
ground with his head towards the cavity,
and immediately began to glide in ; when
nearly out of sight, as its tail was disappearing
from view, Adams seized hold of
it, and with a straight arm and dexterous
turn of the wrist flung it out upon the
open.

* It is impossible to describe the astonishment
of the onlookers. After the lapse
of a moment the Major came forward in a
most generous manner, went up to the
youngster, and clapped him kindly on the
shoulder, saying, ' You have indeed carried
out your boast well, Adams, and earned

your bets, and I for one am contented to
lose, having seen such a marvellous feat
done by a brother officer. I believe I am
the largest loser ; but in the name of all
present, may I ask, would you mind going
through that wonderful performance again?*
Adams had no objection whatever, and
cheerfully did it a second time ; but, ladies,
I must confess that I was not satisfied, and
many present thought some unfair trickery
had been used ; therefore I went up to the
young man and asked him to do it yet once
again as a personal favour to myself He
was proud of his triumph,. and I think was
glad to protract it.

Again we examined the cobra. I then
placed myself near to the hole to watch the
proceedings closely, and make sure there
was no optical delusion, and that the reptile
really went in. The snake charmer came

up as before, and placed the cobra close to

I 2

the hole. It wriggled up and looked in.
Then, all at once, it reared itself on end, and
almost struck me in the eye. I never was
in such a fright in my life, and I give you
my word I jumped backwards at least six
yards ; but the astonishing part of the
affair is this (and I give you my word of
honour, as a gentleman, that the story is
true), that snake was not to be done the
third time, and as surely as I sit here that
cobra turned round, and went into the hole
tail first ! "

* * 4t

Mr. Chilton went away the next morning
to Glen Avon, the estate which was now
his own. Aunt Phyllis seldom mentioned
him ; but I believe he wrote to her most
days.

My sister appeared to resent what I had
said to her that evening when I had found
her with Mr. Chilton. A barrier of reserve

seemed to be growing up between us. I
did my best to overthrow it, but was met
only by coldness, which, alas ! Florence
knew too well how to simulate, even if she
did not feel it.

More than once I urged upon my aunt to
announce her engagement, but she only
shook her head.

No, no, Miriam, I must know and feel
sure first that such an engagement is for
Ralph's happiness."

Auntie, how can you question it ?
There can be no doubt of Mr. Chilton's love
and regard for you."

I do not doubt it, dear," she said,
softly ; *^ but, Miriam, there are many sorts
of love — very many. . What if he feels forme
that which he might have towards a
dear, elder sister ? "

'' But you are not his senior, auntie."

No, not actually ; but confess the truth

Miriam, I seem so, even to you. I shall
wait a year, and if I think it for his happiness,
we will be married then. If not,
Miriam, I shall not blame him. You will
remember I have told you that."

"Auntie, dear, how could I forget it?
You are the best woman I ever met.'^

Not so, child ; not so," she answered,
sadly, while I threw my arms around
her.

Mr. Chilton was never long absent from
Greenholm, but still he did not neglect his
duties as a landowner, and spent a large
portion of his time at Glen Avon.

Bob had been home to see us, and had
brought his cadet's uniform with him, and
we were very proud of our young embryo
soldier. He was very happy at Sandhurst,
and seemed to have made friends both with
his officers and comrades.

Trevelyan was to be a barrister. He had

decided on that profession for himself, and
was being educated accordingly.

There is not much to tell of my own life
during this period. I wrote a little, succeeded
a little, and, I fear, fretted a great
deal — in silence ; for of course I was
unhappy about my own affairs, and I was
scarcely less so with reference to Aunt
Phyllis, Mr. Chilton, and my sister Florence.
The former was growing ever gentler and
more sad-eyed. The latter lived only
during the visits of Mr. Chilton, while he
came less and less often to the house as the
summer wore on. His manner to my aunt
was tender and affectionate, but there was
ever an increasing restlessness about him,
which told its own tale of a heart ill at ease,
while to my sister he was fitful and uncertain,
at times even cross ; but when he
saw the tears rush to the blue eyes, ah !
then he would seem well nigh beside himself.

It was painfully evident to me that
a cruel struggle was going on in the man's
mind. On the one hand, a tried affection,
and a deep respect ; on the other, a sudden
fancy and a blind passion.

Which would bring the greatest happiness,
I well knew. To give up such love as
Aunt Phyllis s for that of my sister E florence
was like flinging away a diamond in the
rough to take possession of a sparkling cut
crystal.

Whichever way I looked, I could see
nothing but misery. My sister was wilful
and delicate ; what would be the consequence
if she were crossed in this new love
of hers? Indeed, had not the doctors
begged that she might have her own way
in everything !

Would she make herself really ill over
her disappointment? I loved my sister
very much, and was grieved for her, yet I

could not see that it was right that she
should supplant Aunt Phyllis and rob her
of her love, her patient well tried love, just
because she was younger, more sparkling,
more beautiful. It seemed very, very hard.

These thoughts were preying upon my
mind and making me really unwell.

Mr. Chilton was at the house on a visit,
and I was in a state of nervous excitement
which prostrated me. I could have laughed
or cried at any moment, had any one
raised a finger to point at me.

Dinner was over ; it was an August
evening, close and warm. Aunt Phyllis
and I both longed for quietness, so she had
carried me off to her own little room upstairs.
That room had a bay window, and
in the bay was a small sofa ; upon this my
aunt placed me, and taking a chair sat
beside me, and in that gloaming light we
talked until I fell asleep.

When I awoke the curtains had been
drawn, closing me out from the room. In
it a Hight burned faintly, and voices reached
me.

'' The year is not yet up, Ralph, that I
told you we must wait, and to which you
agreed."

No ; but circumstances alter cases. I
want to get away from England. I want
to travel. You must see that I am restless,
Phyllis. It is cruel of you to delay our
marriage."

Yes. I do see that you are restless,"
she answered. " Why is it f "

For a moment there was a pause, and I
could hear his breath coming fast and
thick.

I cannot answer your question," he said
at length, " there are some things which
one cannot explain even to oneself My life
has been a somewhat roving one. I daresay

it is that; I can give no other
reason."

*' Ralph," said my aunt, in a low, earnest
tone, " I can help you. I can tell you why
it is. I do not blame you, dear, remember
that, always. I do not blame you, even in
my heart; but you love — not me — but
another."

A long, long silence followed. Then a
sound that was half a sob, half a groan ;
and I thought the strong man's head was
bowed upon his hands.

I felt that I ought not to be there listening.
Yet what could I do 1 Had Aunt
Phyllis forgotten me, or had she closed mein
there on purpose ?

I never was so puzzled in my life
how to act. It would be most unpleasant
to me to announce my presence,
and doubly so to Mr. Chilton, and
while I was yet hesitating what I ought

or ought not to do the conversation continued.


Phyllis, dear Phyllis ! it is not so bad
as you think. Your niece has, I confess,
thrown a glamour over me. But it will
pass ; it is nothing compared with my old
tried affection for you. Let me get away
from her, and the fancy will fade. Phyllis,
Phyllis, be my wife, and believe that I am
true to you," and I knew that he was holding
her in his strong arms.

*' You have forgotten one thing, Ralph,"
she said, very gently. '' My niece's happiness.
Ah! you flinch from that subject;
nevertheless, we must consider it. You
met her before you had seen me again, and
all unknown to yourself she crept into
your heart ; and she, believing you to be
free, loved you. Is it not so 1 "

Believe me, I have not sought her
love," he returned, in a voice of pain.

No, Ralph ; you do not seek love, you
command it. I do not blame Florence, anymore
than I do you ; but her feelings must
be thought of. She is very delicate. She
is a poor hand at bearing trouble, and we
must shield her from it, if we can."

*' Phyllis, do you mean that you will not
marry me ? " he asked, sadly.

*' Yes, Ralph, I love you so dearly, your
happiness is more to me than my own, a
thousand times ; and forgive me, dear, I
could not be content with half a heart, I
have expected so very much ; I cannot
accept less."

That is strange logic, Phyllis ; think
well before you decide my life. If you will
not marry me I shall start for the Holy
Land at once. I have long wished to go
there, and change of scene will be necessary
for me. But, oh ! my dear, come with me.
Remember that since boyhood every thought

of my future life has had you as its centre.
You have mingled with every plan, every
dream''

Yes, Ralph, as I was, in girlhood ; but
you forgot the passing time, and the change
you would find in me, and so did I for
awhile."

Yes ! you are altered, dear ; but it is
after all the same sweet face, and for the
rest, your mind has ripened into greater
perfection, Phyllis'

Well, Ralph, pay your visit to the Holy
Land, and come back to us with all your
restlessness gone, and we will see what is
for your happiness."

A few words more, a sound which told
that they had kissed, and the door closed.
Then Aunt Phyllis sunk upon her knees
and prayed, and I heard the words, " Lord,
give me strength to do what is right," and
parting the curtains I looked into the room.

and saw that she was weeping. In another
moment I was by her side, with my arms
about her.

Auntie, dear auntie, I have heard all !
Was I very wrong to stay there 1 I did
not like to come out, as I was aware that
you knew I was on the sofa."

I had forgotten you, little Miriam ;
but never mind, we did not talk any
treason, after all. No, child, I do not
blame you ; it was a difficult position to be
placed in."

Oh ! auntie, if you would only marry
him," I urged, mingling my tears with hers ;
but she put my wishes aside.

I will wait and see if he outgrows his
love for your sister, dear, and whether her
liking for him proves a lasting one. I cannot
sacrifice the happiness of two lives that
my day-dream should become a reality.

So he went away, and Florence grew

paler and more wan ; the old listlessness
returned, the old discontent; the old cough
came back, and we became very anxious
about her.

One day Aunt Phyllis called me into her
room. " Miriam," she said, "this must not
go on. Your sister will go into a decline
if this lasts much longer. I have written
to Ralph and begged him to come back at
once''

"And will he do so'

"Yes."

What will follow, Aunt Phyllis 1"

He will marry Florence, and God grant
that they may both be very happy ! "

Amen," I said, simply ; and we took
one another's hands and remained quiet
and silent.

It was done. Aunt Phyllis had sacrificed
herself for others, and I knew of no words
wherewith to comfort her.

So Kalpli Clifton returned and was to
be my brother now instead of* my uncle.

How Aunt Phyllis bore the si^'ht of
those two together is more than I can
tell ; but she did bear it manfully.

It had been settled between them that
Florence had better know nothing of the
dead past of their lives for all their sakes,
so that the girl talked of her love and joy
to auntie freely, little dreaming of the pain
she was inflicting.

Ralph, too, was a different man — his

difficult position over, his honour satisfied ;

he gave himself up to loving the beautiful

girl who was to be his wife ; and since

Aunt Phyllis made no sign of suffering,

doubtless he taught himself to believe that

she pi-referred her freedom, and that things

AA'ere best as they were. As for my sister,

happiness seemed to have given her new

life, and to have made her a different
VOL. HI. K

woman. Her good qualities blossomed
under the sunshine of love.

She was very tender to me at that time,
and would often talk to me of Herbert,
and wish my joy were as full as her own ;
and had it not been for poor Aunt Phyllis
and for Sir Gordon Graham there would
have been no cloud upon my satisfaction
at the turn events had taken in her life.
As it was, I felt I must fulfil my promise
of writing to Sir Gordon to tell him what
had happened, and I could but sorrow for
them both in silence, for it was impossible
to even touch softly the deep, deep wound
from which my dear aunt was suffering,
and only by a tender look or a sympathetic
hand-clasp could I venture to express my
feelings toward her. I judged by myself
that no words could be possible either to
speak or to listen to, and it was evident
that she appreciated and understood my

silence, for she would come and rest lier
head upon my shoulder and seem to lean
on me mentally for support, as I had done
so often on her m my sorrow, and her
dear eyes would be dim with unshed
tears.

Poor Aunt Phyllis 1 her trouble was so
much worse than mine. I still had hope,
but from her it had been utterly cut away.

It was not to be a long engagement, and
my sisters wedding day came round, as
everything will come, must come, whether
it be joy or sorrow. Good and evil, evil
and good, each in its turn ; and on the
whole, I suppose things are fairly balanced,
if we can only believe it and remember
that the sun cannot shine everywhere at
the same time.

It did not shine for Aunt Phyllis on my

sister's wedding day ; but she bore up

bravely, never once faltering till all was

k:2

over ; then I missed her, and fearing that
the tension had been too great, I went to
search for her with a sort of feeling that
she was needing me.

I found her kneeling by her bedside, but
quite insensible ; her spirit had been brave
indeed, but nature had at last asserted
herself, and strength had failed her. I
was unwilling to call for assistance, knowing
as 1 did how people's tongues will
wag, and how apt they are to put two and
two together, often fixing upon the truth,
and I was afraid lest any suspicion of
my aunt's secret should be the result.

She was slight and small, and although
neither big nor strong myself, I managed
to lift her upon the bed, and covering her
with blankets I ran down stairs and obtained
mustard and flour from the storeroom.
The feeble action of her heart had
alarmed me, and I determined to put a

plaster over it, and if that did not bring
relief to go myself for the doctor. I also
made some hot brandy and water, which I
forced between her teeth from time to time,
and rubbed the cold hands persistently.
At length I was rewarded by hearing a
sigh, and Aunt Phyllis wept at last in my
arms like a tired child. Dear good, faithful
Aunt Phyllis ! and her last words tome
that night were earnest desires for the
happiness of Ralph Chilton and his young
wife.

CHAPTER XIX.

I DO not think I have ever mentioned that
Miss Montague had passed into her rest,
but such was the case ; and my dear old
friend, Miss Caroline, had been pleading
with me for months to come and stay
with her and her only surviving sister, and
at length I went. Aunt Phyllis was going
about her duties as usual, and had promised
to take every care of Sir Charteris
in my absence.

Miss CaroHne was overjoyed at seeing
me again. How she had grown to love me
so deeply I cannot imagine, for I fear 1

have few good qualities to recommend me,
and very little beauty ; still I never doubted
my dear old friends warm affection, even
in those days when I had not received the
final proof of it.

There were many letters of Herbert's forme
to read which dear Miss Caroline freely
showed me, and in each I found some mention
of myself, which made me feel very
happy, and from one I learned a secret
which I had not been intended to know,
and gained the key to what had been so
long a time a mystery to me. It was a
letter written considerably more than a
year ago which I was perusing, and it was
evident that Miss Caroline had forgotten
its contents, or she would not have placed
it in my hands. One part of it ran thus :

"I am more than glad, dear Miss Caroline, that you
mentioned to my good parents the wish of my dear
Miriam to have back her old favourite. They bought

Shamrock for love of lier, and I feel certain they can
have no greater pleasure than in adding in ever so
slight a manner to her happiness ; and I am also glad
that they have not let lier know from whence the pony
came, for though I do not believe my darling would
mind accepting so small a favour at the hands of the
father and mother of the man who loves her better
than aught else in the world, yet there aie others who
might consider it an obligation, and my dear girl might
not be allowed to retain her jet ; as it is he cannot be
sent back."

I raised my eyes, filled with tears of
gratitude, to Miss Caroline's face.

^'Oh! why did you not tell me?" I
gasped ; " they must think me so ungrateful
; they would be sure to imagine that I
should guess, but I never did, really."

My dear child, ^vhat are you talking
about ?" she asked, bewildered.

About Shamrock," I returned, half
laughing, half crying. "Oh ! I am so glad
to owe the pleasure of possessing him to
Herbert's parents, and you must let me
thank them now I am aware of it."

What ! surely, my dear, I have not
given you that letters asked my old
friend, with comic contrition ; "dear, dear,
dear, what will they say to me ? I thought
I had put it away."

But you see you didn't," I said, kissing
her impetuously, "and I am so glad
you did not; it has made me so much
happier, and you must let me write and
thank them. I will explain away all blame
from you, and when they know how glad
it has made me they cannot be vexed."

"Very well, Miriam, my dear, as you
will ; we all make mistakes sometimes, and
they cannot blame me very greatly, so do
as you please."

So I wrote and received a kind and
loving answer fi-om Mrs. Armstrong, who
told me they were looking forward to the
time when the shadows should have cleared
from their dear boy's path and mine — the

clouds from the horizon of his happiness ;
and she added she had faith that the day-would
come.

I went to see all those who had been
kind to me at Little Newington, and from
two at any rate I received really warm
welcomes. Mr. Radcliffe looked older and
graver, yet somehow there was a nobler
and finer expression upon his face, and I
felt that he had used his trial well and
come out a better and even a more unselfish
man. He was honestly glad to seeme,
and begged me to tell him all about
my sister's marriage, and the husband
whom she had chosen ; after which he
talked of Aunt PhylHs and his great admiration
for her character. Mr. Lyndhurst,
too, was right glad to see me, and I must
confess I was none the less so to meet him
again, for I had the sincerest regard for
him, and was proud to own his friendship.

I did not, however, spend a great length
of time at the Manor House, being afraid
of putting too much toil upon Aunt Phyllis.
I think they were all glad to have me
home again, though they said they wished
I had remained longer with my kind friend,
Miss Caroline ; and she, I know, was sorry
to part with me — or am I vain ? One thing
I regretted, namely, that Bob had paid a
flying visit to Greenholm during my
absence, for I should have loved to see him.

It soon became evident to me that grand-mamma
Costelion had something upon her
mind, and I felt sure that it would not be
very long before I heard all about it. So,
being anxious to get it over, I followed her
to her room upon the first opportunity.

Miriam' she said sternly, " you and
your brother are of the same flesh and
blood."

Well ! yes, grand mamma, I suppose so,"

I returned smiling, "or something nearly
akin to it."

Do not joke, Miriam, the subject is
serious ; you are in a measure responsible
for your brother's faults, as a man is liable
for the debts of his wife ; he does not contract
them, he may even disapprove of
them, but he must prevent them, or he will
have to pay them'

What am I to prevent Bob from doing,
grand mamma ? " I asked, unable to restrain
my amusement.

She came close to me, as one who wishes
to tell a secret which no other ear is to hear.

Miriam, your brother has taken to
smoking !"

What of that ?" I replied, *' most men
do smoke in these days ; is there any harm

in it r

Harm !" she echoed, " harm ! and you
a Costelion ! I tell you, child, that it is

disgusting ; it is dirty, it is extravagant,
and it is wicked ; yes, wicked to waste the
saliva which God has given. The Costelions
may have had faults, Miriam, but
such a filthy habit as smoking has never
been among them'

*' You do not, then, agree with Cowper
in calling tobacco 'the pungent, nose-refreshing
weed grand mamma," I replied ;
'* and I believe he went on in verse to
inform us that it quickened and refined
thought."

If Cowper talked so like a fool he
ought to have been put in a. lunatic asylum ;
and as for Sir Walter Raleigh, he ought to
have been hanged for introducing so pernicious
a practice."

I think I once heard or read an amusing-story
about him," I said, trying to turn her
anger, " or else I dreamt it ; it ran to this
effect : that his servant coming in, and

seeing him smoking, thought he was on fire,
and soused him through and through with
water to put him out, which I should think
it did effectually in both senses of the
word."

But Lady Costelion would not laugh.

Any man who smokes is a fool' she
decided.

Yet we are told, grand mamma, that
Sir Isaac Newton was an inveterate
smoker, and we hear of Milton taking a
pipe and a glass of water before going to
bed ; and Lord Byron smoked. '*

Yes, and that was not his only fault ;
but to my mind it was the worst. Miriam,
I am surprised to hear you stand up for so
bad a custom," she added severely.

'' You mistake me, grand mamma. I
like the smell of smoke as little as yourself
indoors ; I do not, however, object to it in
the open air, and I am sorry to hear that

Bob has taken to it ; but I suppose where
young men are together, as they are at
Sandhurst, such things will occur ; and
doubtless there must be some great charm
in it, or it would never bring all sorts and
conditions of men into subjection as it
does ; in fact, I read a paragraph, the other
day, praising the use of tobacco, which
stated that there were many more female
lunatics than male, and giving as a reason
for it, that the women did not smoke."

'^Miriam!!!"

"Yes, grandmamma/'

I am ashamed of you,'

'* I am so sorry for that, dear," I returned,
not at all humbled, " but I hope you
will forgive me, and Bob, too, before long."

Then I kissed her, and ran down stairs
to find Aunt Phyllis, who laughed at the
little tale I carried to her of Lady Costelion
s wholesale condemnation.

You see, dear, Sir Charteris has never
smoked," she finished ; " and I fear he,
too, may be vexed with Bob, as well as his
mother, but we will hope for the best ; Bob
is a truly good fellow, even if he has contracted
a foolish habit, but we will take
comfort, Miriam, for many good and noblemen
smoke, our own premier for one, and
no one can be more worthy of admiration
than Lord Beaconsfield."

Then you think there is a chance for
poor Bob, still," I replied, smiling into the
kind sweet face.

Yes ! dear, just a little," she said softly,
and, to tell the truth, I do not dislike the
smell of the weed ; it reminds me of the
old days that are gone, when Palpi and I
were young. He was a smoker you know,
Miriam, and is still for the matter of that.
By the by, did you hear from your sister
to-day r

Yes, dear auntie, she and Ralph are
well."

"And happy?" she questioned, searching
my face for a reply.

And happy ; they are enjoying Italy.
Perhaps you would like to see the letter."

So I placed it in her hand, and went

away that she might read it alone.

* * * ♦

Aunt Phyllis had a visitor, and that visitor
was Colonel Markham. I was not particularly
fond of the old Indian officer,
whose stories I had heard all through,
and found the second edition somewhat
tedious. I knew exactly when he would
stretch out his legs, when he would pull
his long white moustache, when his
fingers would be poised, when he would
look fierce, when meek ; for the colonel
had learnt his part so well that he never
forgot the smallest minutiae. But when he

VOL. III. L

went away I ran in to keep auntie company,
and was surprised to see her looking
as if something unusual had happened.

The Colonel's visit ! I hit upon the truth
at once.

Aunt Phyllis," I cried, " he has proposed
to you." And the flush that mounted
to the sweet pale face was sufficient
verification of the truth of my suspicions.

Well, I admire his taste, auntie !" I
said, laughing and kissing her, " but I
think he is an impudent old fellow to
dream of you for a wife ; why ! he might
well be your father — the idea ! "

Age is nothing when people care for
each other," she replied quietly. " I can
imagine a far younger woman than myself
loving an old man dearly."

But not Colonel Markham," I exclaimed,
*' Why ! he is as yellow as a lemon, and I
should think as sour."

His complexion is the effect of many
years' exposure to an Indian sun. Suppose,
now, that Herbert should return with one
similar, '^ she added slyly.

*' Heaven forbid!" I ejaculated fervently.


Why, you would love him none the
less, dear," she asserted quietly. ** And as
to Colonel Markham, I think you have a
groundless dislike to him. Do you know,
Miriam, he is a very good hearted man. I
have been cognizant of many acts of kindness
of his, done in secret."

Well, auntie, I must, confess it has
been a case of Dr. Fell with me. I cannot
tell why I dislike him, but I know I do ;
perhaps it is because I do not believe a
word he says."

He tells traveller s tales, certainly," my

aunt acceded," "but that is rather the

fashion among old Indians."

l2

Annie," 1 cried, " if you persist intaking
this old ' Chutnees' part, I shall
begin to believe you return his admiration
! "

Then, do not go on believing it, dear
Miriam," she returned gently ; *' and now
let us leave the Colonel alone. Will you
come with me for a walk ? the two grand-mammas
want a cartload of wool, and I
have a few cottage visits to pay. Although
Sir Charteris does not like your district
visiting, still he will not mind your coming
occasionally with me; and it will do us
both good to see how much sorrow and
suffering there is everywhere around us.
I always come back more contented with
my lot ; it is wonderful how patient the
poor are under their privations, although
they leave an indelible stamp upon their
faces. Bread winning is hard and weary
wick, Miriam, and hardening work, too ;

those who are always at labour, who have
to take thought for the next day's loaf,
have not much time or opportunity to think
of higher things ; but our Heavenly Father,
does not expect impossibilities, and He will
accept our honest labours as service to
Himself, if we perform it in His love and
fear."

And can you make the poor understand
this, auntie V

I try, Miriam, and I sow my seed in
hope."

*****

There is little to write aJDout during the
passing of that year. We had a visit from
Florence and her husband on their way
homeward. That was a trial time to
Aunt Phyllis, but she bore it bravely.

Ralph Chilton and his wife seemed very
happy ; but I noticed one thing, and not
without dismay, namely, that she was both

jealous and requiring, two things which I
thought very unlikely to conduce to ultimate
happiness in their married life, especially
with a man who had so long enjoyed
the untrammelled liberty which he had for
so many years been accustomed to, with no
one to consult but himself and his own
tastes. Now, he could not leave the house
without being asked whither he was going,
nor return, unless he stated in full where
he had been ; and I could see that he
chafed under this surveillance, though the
glamour was still upon him which had
drawn him from Aunt Phyllis's side, and, to
my mind, from the path of honour; but
this opinion would be treason in auntie's
eyes. And he caressed his wife into
silence, or humoured her childish queries,
while I could but ask myself how long such
a state of things was likely to last, and I
read my answer in the deepening sadness

of Aunt Phyllis's eyes ; she feared for their

happiness as well as myself

*****

Dear old Bob was now an officer ; we
had been down to see him in his hut at
Aldershot, and had attended a dance given
by his regiment. He seemed thoroughly
happy in the life he had chosen, and his
Colonel spoke of him in glowing terms to Sir
Charters, as a most promising young man.

How glad I was to note that the care
marks had vanished from his brow.

Bob and I were getting quite old people,
I told him we must begin looking out for
our grey hairs, for he was three, and I four
and twenty ; at which he laughingly and
lovingly smoothed my dusky head, and told
me never to mind.

I did not mind, except for one reason —
Herbert ! would he love me as well ? would
he mind my being changed 1

I did not doubt him, but I could not
forget my Aunt Phyllis's fate. Surely, it
would not be mine ; and my heart cried
lustily, " No ! my lover would be true."

Our life at that time was particularly
even, but it was not long to continue so.
I received a letter from my brother-in-law,
asking me to come down to Glen Avon, to
stay with his wife, *' who (he feared), was
very far from strong or well ; " that was all
he said, but it opened an avenue of uneasiness
in my mind.

When Aunt Phyllis was alone, I gave
her that letter, and watched her face as she
perused it.

"You must go, Miriam!" she said firmly,
when she had finished it.

Do you judge that there is — much
wrong ? " I asked, nervously.

Yes ! Ralph is not usually so reticent.
1 fear something is the matter beyond ill-health

; had that been all he would have
given it a name, and not have left us uneasy
for nothing."

After a pause, I said. " I will go to-day,
auntie ; but first, I must tell papa."

Do not alarm him about your sister ;
say merely that she and Ralph want you to
come."

*' Yes ! my thoughtful auntie, I am glad
you told me."

CHAPTER XX.

I WENT that very day to Glen Avon. Of
course, I was not expected, but I got a fly
from the station, and arrived at my destination
in safety.

What a lovely place it was, that home of
my sister's ! scarcely less beautiful than
dear old Kingston, only in a different
style. How soft and sleepy the scenery
looked all around it, with a faint vapour
\ like a haze mellowing every outline, and
the Avon flowing lazily by. While the
picturesque house stood in the vale, with
the rising park land behind.

1 am not clever at architecture, but I
know that Glen Avon was perfect of its kind,
and I thought that my sister ought indeed
to be happy in such a home, with the husband
of her love.

Upon one of the terraces, a man was
walking with bent head and slow steps.
Surely that could not be Ralph Chilton !
but it was. At the sound of wheels
he looked up, hurried down the steps,
and came to me in the carriage drive.
This is kind of you, Miriam ! " he exclaimed,
'but I did not expect you so
soon."

"I felt a little uneasy at your letter,
Ralph'' I returned, submitting to his
brotherly embrace, "and thought I had
better come at once. Aunt Phyllis and I
feared something was wrong. *'

*' Yes, something is wrong, Miriam, very
wrong, but God only knows what." Then

suddenly, "Did you show Phyllis my
letter r'

"Yes."

"Ah! I thought you would," he said, with
a sigh " that was why I said nothing more."

*' You cannot have a better adviser than
my aunt," I said warmly.

No one knows that more fully than I
do, Miriam," he answered, with a wistful
look," and no one can tell how sorely I miss
her gentle guidance at every turn ; but I
have only myself to blame for the loss of it.
That I am aware of too, and it would be
ungenerous to trouble her with my affairs
now that I have made a muddle of them.
Miriam, I believe there is a vein of madness
in most men, and I am sure I have had my
turn," he added bitterly.

Will you dismiss the cabman for me,"
I returned prosaically, " and let me go indoors.
Florence may have seen me arrive."

** No, she is in her boudoir, at the other
side of the house ; she will not know you
are here, and I should like a few words
with you in the library before you go to her."

A servant now appeared at the door, and
my small amount of luggage was carried in.
It was evident that T was not expected,
and that no room had been prepared forme,
by the butler's puzzled looks, and I felt
that he was eyeing me critically. Ralph
was, however, not the man to give any
explanation to his servants, and without a
word, he led me to the library, where he
generally sat.

** Well now, what have you foolish children
been quarrelling about ? " I asked, as
cheerfully as I could.

*' Heaven only knows ; everything, I
believe ; it is a constant jar, and yet I
cannot point to any one especial cause of
our domestic misery, but miserable we are

undoubtedly. Nothing satisfies my wife
now ; whatever I say is wrong, whatever I
do is wrong ; yet, I once thought she
loved me ; now I know it was but a passing
fancy, and I threw away pure gold for the
electro sham'

Do not say that, Kalph ; whatever my
sister's faults may be, she loved you dearly
when she married you ; of that I am certain."

I am glad you think so ; but the fact
remains that now she hates me."

^^Ealph!"

Well ! judge for yourself, Miriam ; I
will say no more. How is Phyllis ? "

She is never very strong," I replied,
sadly, " but she is as sweet and good as
ever, and as anxious for your happiness.
And now, shall I go to my sister ? You
must try and make it up with her, Ralph,
and let bygones be bygones."

God knows I would gladly do anything,

but I have no idea how I have offended,
nor why she has changed towards me."
"Does your conscience whisper nothing?"
Nothing, Miriam, nothing whatever."
'* Well ! we must see w^iat can be done ;
will you tell her that I am here."

No, better not ; go in to her alone,
she does not expect you, but it will be a
pleasant surprise, she often wishes for you
to be with her." So we walked over the
richly carpeted hall (in which a magnificent
billiard table stood surrounded by rich
settles), where our footsteps gave no sound,
and to the right, out of the hall, he opened
a door, and admitting me, closed it again.

It was summer, but a fire burned in the
beautifully tiled grate, and my sister sat
before it, upon a low, luxurious chair, with
her head resting upon one of her hands,
and her blue eyes fixed wearily upon the
gleaming embers.

It was an exquisite room, furnished in
the perfection of taste and costliness ; the
draperies of the palest French grey, with a
delicate tracery of pink heather. The
mantel board was covered with grey velvet,
upon which was a deep hanging of rare old
Spanish point ; exquisite china, and beautifully
executed statuary met my gaze whichever
way I turned, and water-colour drawings
and Venetian mirrors decked the walls ;
and it was evident the apartment had but
lately been furnished with loving care.

The surroundings were all such as my
sister most cared for, such as she had
longed, and even pined for. Now, they
were all hers, her very own, and they
appeared to bring her no pleasure, for there
was discontent written upon every drooping
line of the beautiful face. A sweet
little table was by her side which matched
the mantel piece, and upon it lay a book,

flung aside with the leaves crumpled, and
I heard her sigh as I advanced to her side.

Are you astonished to see me, Florence
dear ? " I asked, as I knelt by her. She
showed no surprise, she prided herself upon
never doing so, but I think she was glad to
see me.

*' Why ! Miriam, have you dropped from
the clouds ? " she asked, a faint smile lighting
up the pale face ; the words were not
very warm ones, but she took me by both
my hands and kissed me affectionately.

You do not ask what brought me,"
I said. " Ralph wrote that you were
not very well, and Aunt Phyllis and
I felt rather anxious, so I thought I
would run down and take a peep at
you."

Well, I am glad you came, I am sadly
moped here. My husband cares nothing
for society, otherwise I might find some

VOL. 111. M

distraction in that ; as it is, sometimes I
think I shall die of ennui. I am sure I
wonder he took the trouble to let you know
I was ill, the subject could have held very
little interest foi him," she said coldly.

*' Indeed, I should think it holds a great
deal, Flo, for one who loves you so dearly."

Oh ! how her beautiful lip curled.

My dear child, you are not married, or
you would know that that sort of thing
never outlasts the honeymoon. '^

Florence, dear, I hope you have not
grown cynical," I said, trying to turn the
matter into a joke.

Have I '? Well, there are some things
which make one cynical ;" then suddenly,
after a pause, "How is papa V

He is wonderfully well, for him ; of
course the effects of that attack will remain,
otherwise he is all right. But Aunt Phyllis
seems unusually weakly."

I did not enquire for Aunt Phyllis,"
returned my sister, in an icy tone.

No, dear, you did not," I answered,
firmly, " though I am sure it was an oversight."
But for all that I was far from
certain, for Florence had been too fond of
Aunt Phyllis to forget her.

Well, Miriam, you had better come and
take off your things," she said, suddenly,
rising as she spoke. " I will go with
you, and give orders for your room being
prepared."

Then she turned to me with genuine
feeling at last, and threw her arms around
my neck.

Miriam, dear, stay with me as long as
ever you can," she murmured, and I promised
that I would.

Those were not happy weeks to me at

Glen Avon. It is far from pleasant to bethe

shuttlecock between two opposing

M 2

battledores. I often got into severe scrapes
on both sides for trying to make the best
of matters.

We are told " We cannot serve God and
Mammon," and I found it very true with
regard to Florence and her husband — not
that I wish to insinuate that either was
mammon, but merely to illustrate that it is
impossible to please two conflicting parties,
however much you may try, and let your
motives be ever so good. When I had not
offended Florence I had offended Ralph,
and vice versa, and I was altogether a very
miserable little person ; still I did my best
to make peace between the belligerents,
but with very poor results.

Not a day passed upon which there was
not some subdued dispute and bickering —
some covert thrust from my sister, some
indignant remonstrance from Ralph.

That she had tired out his affection I felt

but too sadly sure, but what had caused lier
bitter antagonism I was unable to elicit.

On the whole, I thought it was wonderful
how he bore with her, though it seemed tome
to be from the motive of peace at any
price rather than from love.

I had been there two months, and was
longing to get home for a sight of Aunt
Phyllis, and wondering if I dared leave.
There had been comparative peace for
awhile, but alas ! it had been that calm
which precedes a storm.

I entered the drawing-room, having made
up my mind to announce my determination
to go home for a time at any rate, when on
opening the door I heard voices raised in
anger.

Go, go, by all means," cried my sister ;
I hope I may never see your traitor face
again ! "

Florence," returned Ralph, pale as

death, " I insist upon an explanation of
your words ; this is not the first time that
you have accused me of something —
treachery you call it ; but I will know
what it is you mean."

'will you?" she returned, insolently,
and if I decline to inform you ?"

Then you shall have your wish — you
shall see my face no more."

"That hould be a heavy punishment!"
she replied, sarcastically.

Then that is your decision ?" asked my
brother-in-law.

It is."

The door opened and closed, and a silence
ensued, then I flung myself on my knees
before my sister.

Florence, for God's sake unsay what
you have said. Tell me of what you accuse
your husband. I am doubly certain that
you have no just cause of complaint against

him. You are angry with him, and your
judgment is warped. My dear, dear sister,
reflect before you send from you a husband
who would be kind, good, and loving if only
you would let him ; and remember that
such a breach as you are making may never
be healed. Do, do reflect, dear. Has not papa
had unhappiness enough \ What will become
of you if you quarrel with Ralph ? You
would have to go back to Aunt Phyllis."

*' Indeed, I would not'' she returned,
sharply.

'' Then, dear, what hould you do V
I do not know," she said, after a long
pause, '' but I would rather beg my bread
than bear this life. Now put yourself in
my place, Miriam. If you had married a
man and found out afterwards that he did
not love you — that he never had, never
would love you — tell me how you would
feel," she cried, passionately.

But, my dear, dear sister, this cannot
be your case. Ralph loved you dearly
when he married you, and indeed loves you
still - if you would let him ; but you throw
back his affection upon itself, until you
have driven him well nigh out of his senses.
Call him back, or let me, dear. You know
the advice of the old song, Flo, and good
advice it is indeed ; if people would but
follow it more often we should have less
sorrow in the world. Florence, dear, do
call him back and kiss him.' I believe
the song referred to the other sex, but the
plan will hold equally good with both."

I wonder, Miriam, you can talk such
frivolous nonsense when you know what
trouble I am in," returned my sister,
bursting into passionate tears.

I could not bear it. 1 was certain that
she loved him still, else why this injustice,
this violent resentment ; so I crept away

and tapped at the library door — once —
twice — thrice ; then E;alph opened it himself,
and stood before me, pale and stern.

Did you want me, Miriam V

Yes ! I want you very much. May I
come in ?"

He admitted me, and gave me a chair,
but stood himself, and it was evident that
he meant me to bear the brunt of the conversation,
for by no word would he assist
rae.

Ralph," I said at length, " pray do not
let this extraordinary estrangement from
my sister assume undue proportions ; she
is crying as if her heart would break. Be
generous and go to her — all may yet be
well between you."

Did she charge you with this message V
he asked, coldly.

No ! I have come of my own accord''

Then I am sorry my answer must be

that T cannot follow out your suggestion.
Indeed, I am about to leave home."

** Ralph ! you cannot mean it — for how
long''

*' God only knows."

"My dear brother, pray wait ; sleep
upon this decision of yours. Think of the
position in which both you and Florence
will be placed — married, yet apart. I cannot
imagine anything more likely to injure
you both in every way."

I agree with you, Miriam, that the
position is an unfortunate one ; but your
sister has forced it upon me."

*' And you really mean to leave your
home and her?" I questioned, pitifully.

I do."

Oh ! Ralph, you will repent it Where
are you going ?"

** I have no plans whatever — I cannot
tell."

A long pause followed.

Ralph, make me one promise : Aunt
Phyllis is the best friend you ever had ;
always let her know where you are to be
found ; pray do not refuse me this request'

I will not' he replied. " And, Miriam,
you are a good girl. I know you have done
your best for me, although sometimes I
have not done you justice ; and remember,
whatever may follow, that when I made
your sister my wife I loved her truly ; but
now — now I know that I have made a lifelong
mistake in giving up Phyllis. You
can tell her what I have said to you if you
wil."

Then he stretched out both his hands tome
as a drowning man might for support,
and before I could recover myself he was
gone, and I sat there helplessly, stupidly,
silently, letting the valuable moments pass
unheeded.

Ralph Chilton did not appear that
evening at dinner — he was not there next
morning at breakfast. Luncheon time
came and he did not return ; a second
dinner, but no sign of him.

My sister maintained a quiet, calm composure
which surprised me — which must, I
felt sure, be kept up by a marvellous effort
on her part.

A week — two weeks — a month, and
Ralph Chilton remained away. I was
obliged to write the sad story to Aunt
Phyllis ; I made the best of it, but still it
could be only a sad, sad story.

One thing somewhat puzzled me — Florence
never suggested leaving Glen Avon.
In her place I could not have remained
there, but I felt it was better as it was.
While she was in her husband's house the
separation was not so complete, and was not
known to the outside world.

My sister seldom mentioned any of her
family — never her husband or Aunt Phyllis.
I longed to get back to Greenholm, but felt
it to be my duty to remain with Florence.

It was two months since Ralph had left
home, and it was evident that my sister's
calmness was giving way ; and it was
equally evident that she was ill in body as
well as in mind, so ill that I sent for her
doctor, who looked grave and troubled, and
signed to me to accompany him when he
left her room. I followed him downstairs
into the drawing-room.

*' Miss Costelion," he said, gravely, ** it
will be as well for you to send for Mr.
Chilton — he should be at home at such a
crisis ; and I consider it my duty to tell
you that I am most uneasy with regard to
your sister. I find about her a most unusual
and unaccountable degree of excitement,
which at such a time is likely to

prove most harmful, and may be fatal. If
you have a mother I should advise her to
come to Mrs. Chilton; you probably have
not had much experience in such matters,
and you do not look very well yourself,
Miss Costelion."

**No, I have not, and my dear mother
has long gone to rest ; but I will write to
Aunt Phyllis."

Aunt Phyllis ! ah ! that name should
go with a sweet character. Send for Aunt
Phyllis by all means, and Miss Costelion,
pardon me if my remark savours of impertinence,
but if there is anything on
Mrs. Chilton's mind, which I fear, try and
get it relieved, for she will have a hard
time of it."

All that day I watched by my sister.
I had telegraphed for my aunt, and knew
well that she would come ; but the hours
of waiting seemed interminable.

At length a sound of wheels struck upon

my ear. Florence was dozing, but she heard

it too ; she sprang up with dilated eyes.

*' Miriam ! do you hear ? Is it Ralph ? has

he come home ? go, go, and see."

I knew too well that it was not, but I
obeyed her, and met Aunt Phyllis in the hall.

We went into Florrie's pretty boudoir.

Well !" she interrogated.

Oh ! it is not well, dear auntie. She is
very, very ill ; but I am so glad you have
come. If anyone can help her, it is you.
How I wish Ralph were here ! When she
heard your carriage drive up she fancied
he had returned."

*' Poor girl ! if he forgave her tomorrow
it must be many a long day before he could
return. Miriam, by now he is in Africa —
he has gone there for the sport."

Oh ! auntie, who told you ? how do you
know T

He has kept the promise he gave you,
Miriam : he wrote to me ; and, oh ! child,
he seems quite broken-hearted. I did it
for the best, God knows. I thought it was
for his happiness, but I fear my judgment
erred. Miriam, do you think they will
ever be reconciled V

1 do not know, auntie ; but I am sure
of one thing, that if anyone upon this
earth can bring it about, that person is
yourself Will you try, my dear, good
Aunt Phyllis r'

A pause, a lifting of the dear grave face,
two eloquent eyes — then, " With God's
help I will" — and we kissed in silence,
which meant more than words ; and I returned
to my sister, Aunt Phyllis following
me.

Florence was sitting up in her bed, two
burning spots upon her cheeks, and fever
in her eyes. "Is it Ralph?" she cried.

Tell him I want him. Oh ! Miriam, he
has been away eight whole weeks \" and
she burst into a passion of tears.

Hush ! hush ! my darling, it is not
Kalph, but it is someone else come to comfort
you — it is Aunt Phyllis !"

"Aunt Phyllis," she cried, 'aunt Phyllis!
do not let her come near me ; she has been
the cause of all my trouble. Miriam, she
is as bad as Kalph, and worse ; do not
make me see her. She loves him — loves
my husband. There! now you know my
secret. I found it out accidentally, and
then he pretended love for me ! Why, why
have they treated me so ? And now I
suppose she has come to see me die — then
then she will marry Kalph. She is not
ray aunt, you know ; there is no blood relationship
between us, and she will marry
my husband ! "

And she fell back fainting.

VOL. III. N

'why did you not tell me of this,
Miriam ? " asked my aunt, coming forward.


Because I did not know it, Aunt
Phyllis."

We did all we could to bring her round,
and at length the white lids quivered over
the blue eyes, and my aunt signed to me
to move out of sight ; then she offered my
sister some refreshment, but she turned
away.

Not from you," she murmured.

"Why not from me, my dear niece?"
said Aunt Phyllis, softly.

*' You ask me whyf^' said Florence, excitedly
; " does not your own conscience
tell you?"

''No."

Then listen, I have found you out,
and I have found him out. You and Palpi
love one another!"

'* Of course we do," she replied, gently.
We have been friends since childhood."

"Friends; aye, and lovers. Aunt Phyllis,
you dare not deny it."

*' I have no desire to do so, Florence.
Many, many years ago, when Kalph and I
were, so to speak, boy and girl, we were
sweethearts truly ; but Ralph's father did
not think me a sufficiently good match for
his son and heir, and I would not marry
without his consent ; so he went away —
abroad. You know when he came back,
Florence: well, before I ever saw him again
he had found out that his old fancy had
proved a mistake, and he had learnt to
love a fair young girl, who was there to
meet him instead of poor Aunt Phyllis.
Still, he thought he ought to be true to
his former promise, and tried to meet his
old sweetheart with a warmth he did not

feel. The struggle between duty and love

N 2

must have been a hard one, don't you think
so, Florence ? Well, Aunt Phyllis saw it
all, and released him. She had the happiness
of knowing that her old sweetheart's
lather had learnt to love her, and as much
desired the union of herself and his son as
once he had opposed it. You will remember,
dear, how I came up from Glen
Avon when sent for, and how I went back
there with Ralph — too late, for his father
was dead ; but he had left his wishes behind
him in a letter. Would you like to
see it, Florence ? You will find therein
that if I married Kalph as he desired, half
the property was to be my very own, and
he enclosed me his last will and testament
to that effect."

My sisters interest was fully excited
now. She was sitting up and gazing
straight into my aunt's face.

*^ There was a codicil to this will, dear.

to the effect that if Ralph did not fulfil his
contract with nie and marry me within one
year* after his father's death, everything
should he mine J'

Then this place is your's," cried Florence,
" )iot our s — not Ralph's, I mean."

It would have been had I wished for
it ; as it was I thought the will an unjust
one, therefore 1 have not acted upon it."

"Aunt Phyllis! let me read it;" and
she stretched forth a trembling hand for it.
When she had mastered its contents she
asked pitifully, " Why, why did you not
marry Ralph V

Because he loved another ; because I
would not let him perjure himself either
for my sake or for his well-loved acres.
Child, child, for what have you made him
and yourself miserable? who put this foolish
fancy into your head?"

Your own letters. I had this keys one

day. I know it was not right, auntie ; but
1 opened his desk, and there I found a
packet of your letters."

"And you read them ?"

"Yes, and it brought its own punishment.
Oh ! Aunt PhyUis, what loving
letters they were. Whenever he spoke tome
I seemed to hear your words of love,
and I never knew any peace after. Auntie,
auntie, I do love him so, and yet when I
think it is you he loves after all, and not
me, I believe I hate him''

Florence, these feelings are unworthy
of you," said Aunt Phyllis, sternly — more
sternly than I had ever heard her speak
before.

"Why, why did you both deceive me ?"
asked my sister; "why have I been treated
like a child '? "

Just to save you from the very thing
which has happened. We feared you might

be jealous of a shadow that had passed, and
it seems we were right ; and now, my dear
niece, shall I stay with you or go back to
Heathley?"

There was a great quivering of the white
eyelids, and tears were rolling slowly down
the pale face — pale save for those hectic
spots ; then she looked up suddenly.

"Aunt Phyllis, if I die you will make
him happy — you will marry him'*

Another pause ; then Aunt Phyllis's
voice, clear and somewhat hard, as though
it was a great effort to her to speak.

No, Florence ! I would not marry
Kalph if he were free tomorrow, and if he
asked me a hundred times; moreover, I have
made up my mind to marry someone else !"

I could not sit still ; it was more than
anyone could expectant I started forward,
while my sister's voice and mine rang out
together in the same words.

"Oh! Aunt Phyllis!" and then we added,
"Whom?"

I had an offer this morning from an old
lover of your's, Florence — Mr. Radcliffe."

"And you mean to accept it V

Yes ! he is a good man, and I think
my sphere of usefulness will be larger as a
clergyman's wife. I shall tell him of my
former engagement, and if he still wishes
it, I shall marry him."

"It is very odd that we should have
exchanged lovers, auntie," said my sister,
with an actual smile (it was very evident
that a heavy weight had been lifted off her
mind); "but what about that will? Ralph
did not marry you, so the property should
be your's, and if he knew of its existence,
he could not retain it."

I do not mean that he ever shall know,"
said Aunt Phyllis, quietly, and walking to
the fire, she threw in it the will of Palpi's

father, and we saw it blaze up and fall into
charred fragments.

"Aunt Phyllis! stay with me!" cried
my sister, holding out both her arms to
her, and falling upon her breast she sobbed
there, and more affected than I cared to
acknowledge, I crept away and wept too.

Foolish, foolish Florence, to wreck her
Hfe's happiness for such folly, yet I feared
she had done so.

That night Aunt Phyllis and I were
alone for a few moments. *' Auntie," I
said, "let me congratulate you; but I never
was more surprised. I h-ad no idea Mr.
Radcliffe loved you, or still less that you
would accept him, or anyone."

Nor had I, dear. I only learnt this
morning of Mr. Radcliffe's affection for me,
and had I answered his letter then, I
should have refused his offer ; but when I
saw that poor girl kilHng herself over her

jealous fancies, it decided me. If I become
Mrs. Radcliffe, she knows 1 cannot marry
Ralph in case of her death, and that will
ease her mind."

Aunt Phyllis, you are sacrificing yourself
again."

Not so, dear ; I respect and esteem Mr.
Radcliffe greatly, and deem myself fortunate
in having so good a companion over
the rough roads of life. I think I can
make him happy, Miriam. Our hearts are
set upon the same work, and we shall be
able to help one another, and others too,
I hope."

"And may you be happy yourself,
auntie," I murmured, " for no one can
deserve it more."

All my sister's dislike to Aunt Phyllis
vanished, and during those days of sickness
which followed (and, oh ! what weary ones
they were, full of suspense and anxiety).

she would have no one else by her. Upon
one occasion she looked up, suddenly.

Auntie, have you accepted him ? " she
asked.

Have I accepted Mr. Radcliffe ? Yes,
dear, it is all settled."

A smile flitted over her pale face, and
trembled upon her lips.

"I am so glad, auntie," she said, softly.
"He will be happy after all. I did not
behave well to him, and he had been so
kind to us." Then, after a long pause,
during which the blue eyes were gazing
out of the window at the .beautiful scene
beneath. " How soft and dreamy it all
looks, Aunt Phyllis, and what glorious
tints are coming upon the trees. Autumn
is E-alph's favourite season of the year. I
wish he could see it now," and I saw that
tears were gathering fast. " Auntie, I
have not managed my life well. I was not

satisfied even with all he gave me. I did
not try to make him happy after I found
those letters. I have been very wicked,
have I not ? "

Poor child ! if you have erred, you have
suffered."

I have, indeed, auntie. Do you think
he will ever forgive me ? Do you think he
will ever come back \ "

Aunt Phyllis had the wisdom not to say
that he had written to her, which knowledge
might have reawakened the jealousy
in her nature.

You can pray for both, dear," she answered,
smoothing the tumbled golden head,
and we know that our prayers are heard."

But although Aunt Phyllis said nothing
more, she did a great deal, and that night's
post carried a letter to Ralph Chilton,
telling him of his wife's illness, of her regret
for her conduct towards him, her wish for

his return, and of one thing more, the
birth of his little son ; for during the evening,
a small stranger had made his appearance
upon the stage of life, and Florence
lay pale and beautiful with her babe in her
arms.

*' Aunt Phyllis, if Ralph could only see
him," she whispered.

And so he will, one day, darling, rest
assured."

Do you really think so ? " asked my
sister, anxiously.

"Indeed I do."

She gave a sigh of relief

*' Then I will try and get well 1 "

The next morning the first words which
greeted me were,

Miriam, is he not like Ralph 1 his eyes
are jiist the same colour''

I dare say they are, if we could only
see them," I returned with a smile ; " but

my nephew does not seem inclined to open
them very wide, at present."

You must be very stupid, I think,
Miriam. I can see them well enough."

'' It is with the eyes of faith then, dear.
A mother's faith," I returned.

What are you two arguing about ? "
asked Aunt Phyllis, brightly, as she
entered the room. " Baby's eyes like his
father's ? Why, of course they are. I give
it against you, Miriam ; and, moreover, I
can't allow all this talking ; and there is a
letter awaiting you down stairs from Miss
CaroHne Montague, with an unusually
black border. I fear her sister must be
dead."

Oh ! but, auntie, she has not been ill."

That may be, Miriam ; yet, in the midst
of life we are in death, and at Miss Montague's
age the thread of life is quickly
snapped."

I hastened down to get my letter, and
found Aunt Phyllis's fears had but too
truly been realized, and Miss Caroline had
written begging me to come to her, as she
was now alone in the world.

I waited to consult my aunt before
answering the letter, and having talked the
matter over together, it was decided that
Aunt Phyllis should not leave my sister for
the present, but that I should go down
immediately to the Manor House, and, if
possible, I was to persuade my dear old
friend to return with me to Heathley,
where my presence, or that of Aunt Phyllis,
was sorely needed, letters from Green-holm
being short, unsatisfactory, and full
of complaints.

I saw Mr. Radcliffe. Of course he came to
see me, and I was bewildered at the change
in him, the old diffidence was replaced by
a grave air of happy content.

I need not regret my former disappointment,
Miss Miriam, when I have
secured such a priceless treasure. Your
aunt was so good to me in my transient
trouble."

She is good to every one, Mr. Radcliffe,"
I said, warmly ; " and you are indeed
a most fortunate man, and may be
truly thankful that your love for my sister,
beautiful as she is, came to nothing. She
was far too young for you, and too thoughtless
and inexperienced for a clergyman's
wife,"

Yes ! I can see it all now. Miss Miriam,
all things have been ordered for the best,
and I ann very thankful. There is no one
in the world like Miss Armatage."

Mr. Lyndhurst, too, I saw. Time had
not touched him with a light hand. He
was as glad as ever to meet me, but there
was a look of overwork and care in his

face, which had, perhaps, been there when
I had seen him before ; but which had too
visibly deepened now, and I could not help
wishing earnestly that he, like Mr. Radcliffe,
might find a good and suitable mate,
instead of living his lonely, solitary, home
life, and the thought kept recurring to my
mind, how greatly I should like to help
him to happiness.

The star of the Riders had been in
the ascendant, and must indeed have
moved in some eccentric orbit ; for the
breaking up of the company which had
ruined my father, seemed but to have
made Mr. Eider a richer man ! and I can
only say with Lord Dundreary, " There
are some things which no sellar can understand."


The fact remained that the Tides had
built themselves what they called a mansion,
and which really was a large detached
VOL. III. o

house ill a highly decorated style, the
balustrades, terraces, and ornamental
pots of which were supposed to class it
among Italian architecture, although, probably,
the Italians would neither have
recognised nor owned it as such.

As far as my small experience goes, I
should have termed it of the genus mongrel
; but no doubt Mrs. Rider would say
that was because I was envious of it.
Emily has no need now to hire horses.
Her papa keeps a carriage and pair, and
Emily rides one of them, gallantly, with
the coachman in handsome top boots behind
her on the other. Even though some
folks did say the steed was somewhat
heavy for a lady's use.

Dear Miss Caroline consented to my
wish that she should return with me to
Heathley, and the old Manor Douse was
for the time deserted. Six out of the seven

had passed away, and it would have been
sad, indeed, for the seventh to have remained
there alone.



Chapter Xxii

HAVE referred little to my penmanship
for a long time past ; but still I had been
at work diligently, and had been able to
keep myself in clothes and pocket-money,
though I had not found the profits of novel
writing very great. Those who sit down
to begin their first books little dream what
an amount of patience and perseverance
they will need to carry them through at
all ; and certainly people who read those
works do not at all realize the labour which
has been expended on even the worst of
them, as they skim the pages which have

been written with so much care, for such
poor remuneration. It is only a few fortunate
authors who can command high prices ;
those who have made a name ; some
deservedly, some unreservedly ; and after
that it matters little what they write, the
publishers will not refuse their works, nor
their price, however poor the articles.

The question is often asked, " What's ina
name ? " In authorship, at any rate,
everything. I suppose all authors have
sanguine natures and expect great
successes ; but how few have their expectations
realized.

Well, I conclude were it made easier for
us, too many writers would arise ; as it is
publishers are obliged to have hard hearts,
and authors thick skins, and we must think
ourselves lucky if we manage to produce
anything which at all touches the public
taste, and passes muster among reviewer's.

Although I believe it is a known fact that
many a book which would never have been
heard of, has been whipped into fame !
Indeed, I am told upon the best authority,
that a short time since, after a review in
the Times had appeared, stating that a
book was not Fit to he read by any one, five
thousand copies were immediately sold !
Oh I the perversity of human nature. It
makes one feel inclined, like the Irishman,
to ask, " Who wil tread on the tail of me
coat 1 "

How many hours a day does the non-writer
suppose an author is obliged to wield
his pen '? How many months does he
imagine he is wading through sheet after
sheet of foolscap ? Does he think at all
of the over wrought brain of the poor
author, his days of steady application, and
his restless nights '? Not he ; all he knows
is that some one has written a hook, and if

he likes it he will perhaps praise it a little,
and acknowledge it is *' not half bad," and
if he doesn't, why, he will pick up the
biggest stones he can to throw at it, and if
no stones are at hand — mad, perhaps, or
sand. All is fair in love, or war, or
criticism ; and the moral of it is, I suppose,
if you mind being shot at, don't put yourself
up for a target !

Well ! I had been mother to three novels,
and each in its turn had of course met with
its rough and its kindly handling ; on the
whole I was deemed fortunate, because so
many had been far less so,, but I had not
found an author's path lay through a rose
garden, except for the thorns to be found
there.

Still I doubt if I should have liked it,
had I suddenly been obliged to put aside
my pen, and bid my fancies cease to flow.

My books had become my friends and

companions, and I should have been grieved
had it been necessary for me to be parted
from them.

Bob had gone with his regiment to India.
He had been home to say good-bye to us
all, and it had been a sad parting to us,
although his heart seemed light. I could
not help thinking of those words, " Men
must work and women must weep'' as we
watched him off with tear-dimmed eyes.
He had been down to Glen Avon to see
Florence and Aunt Phyllis, who wrote that
he had left them in high spits. It was
only when he bade farewell to his father
and me, that he faltered in the least, and
even then he was hopeful.

I shall soon return father," he cried,
cheerily, " and I will send you home some
Indian shawls and Eastern jewelry, Miriam
they will suit your dark style of beauty."

Beauty ! Bob ? " I questioned, smiling

through my tears. Then he stooped and
whispered, " Suppose I come across Herbert
Armstrong, eh ! Well, I will give you a
good character old girl." A pause, pain-freighted.
"Take care of the father,
Miriam, and God grant that we may meet
again."

One honos, honos kiss, and the sound of
wheels, a backward look from a dear, dear
face, and Bob was gone, while Sir
Charteris stood gazing after him, shading
his eyes from the autumn sun. And was I
wrong, or where there tear-drops gathering
in the lashes ? In silence I clasped his
cold hand, and led him in to his own cosy
room, and drawing a stool to his feet I sat
there unreproved.

We Costelions use few words when our
feelings are touched for good or evil, for
sorrow or for joy.

After awhile I returned to Glen Avon,

and let Aunt Phyllis come home. Mr.
Radcliffe was waiting to pay her a visit ;
and her especial care — her poor — were
clamorous to get her back among them.

The grandmothers and their knitting
were very much inclined to get bewildered,
and Aunt Phyllis seemed to be the only
one who could set them to rights, and pickup
their stitches to their satisfaction.

It was Christmas-tide once more. The
world lay pure and white around us. Jack
Frost sparkled upon each tree, bough and
bush, icicles hung like crystals from the
eaves, and the window panes were covered
with strange traceries, while the yule
logs roared and hissed up the chimneys,
and the fires burned bright from the
frost.

I was doing my best to cheer my sister,
but my own thoughts turned longingly
towards Greenholm. I should like to be

with my father and Aunt Phyllis (I told
myself) at this season, but I could not leave
Florence. And as if in answer to my wish
two letters were brought in, one for my
sister and one for me, both containing the
same request, that we would be at Heathley
on Christmas Eve ; and a little line at the
end of mine marked private more than ever
made me anxious to go.

I had some difficulty in persuading my
sister to leave her home, '^ Suppose he
comes while I am away," she urged ; but I
confidently tell her that he will not come,
and carry her away with xne by my very
eagerness, until having caught the infection
she is eager too.

We are greeted with a loving welcome
by Aunt Phyllis on our arrival.

"It is to be a happy family gathering''
she tells me. Mr. Radcliffe had for once
obtained the services of a locum tenens, and

she had asked oiu^ old friend Mr. Lyndhurst
also.

T wish he would marry Miss Caroline,"
I said, laughing. " I know no one else
worthy of him."

*' Poor Miss Montague ; it will cheer her
to see you ; you cannot think how fond she
is of you, Miriam — of you and of Herbert
Armstrong."

*' Good, dear old soul, I am sure we both
return or, rather, reciprocate her affection,
dear auntie ; and now tell me about yourself,
when are you going to make Mr.
Radcliffe really happy ? "

"We talk of this time next year," she
replied, with a faint flush on her pale
cheek.

'auntie, how fond you are of putting
things off," I laughed, "but I cannot imagine
what we shall all do without you ; are
we to stay on here pauperizing poor grand-mamma

? and, oli ! Greenholm will never
be Greenholm without sou, auntie, dear'

'* So I have been telling myself," she
returned, smiling, "and I do not think I
can leave it after all."

Not leave it '{ " I exclaimed, in wonder,
why, auntie, it is impossible that you can
mean to disappoint Mr. Radcliffe."

I hope he will not be disappointed
dear, but I do not think I shall ever go to
Little Newington."

I could only gaze at her in blank amazement.
Could Aunt Phyllis really mean
that she was going to jilt the unfortunate
man 1 and I was left in wonder, for a ring
came at the bell, and Aunt Phyllis left me
without a single word of explanation. I
felt bewildered somewhat, and altogether
uncomfortable. My belief in Aunt Phyllis
was unbounded, but when a person s own
lips declare a thing, one can hardly help

believing it; and she had distinctly told
me she doubted if she should ever go to
Little Newington, and Aunt Phyllis was
not a woman to tell an untruth. What
was I to believe? had she only said she
would marry Mr. Radcliffe to still my
sister's jealous fears ; and if so was such a
line of conduct fair towards him 1 For he
had evidently believed in her promise.

To doubt Aunt Phyllis's integrity seemed
to be rank heresy, and I jumped up from
my chair, pushed my way through the
closed curtains and stood by the French
windows looking out upon the snow-clad
garden, sadly and wonderingly. The door
opened, and some one entered, but I never
looked to see who it was, my bewildered
mind was still puzzling out the enigma of
Aunt Phyllis s words. *' She did not think
she should ever go to Little Newington."
Was that unfortunate man again going to be

disappointed ? A second time the door opened
behind me, then a voice recalled me to myself.

My wife ! I have come back ; have you
a welcome for me ? "

A glad cry in answer, and I knew that
my sister was sobbing in her husband's
arms ; so I quietly unfastened the French
window and slipped out into the night
alone, leaving those two behind reconciled.
Not even to pass through the room would I
intrude upon their Christmas joy.

Aunt Phyllis was standing in the lighted
dining-room, seeing that nothing had been
forgotten, as every good housekeeper must
do ; and I tapped upon the window pane
and asked her to let me in. Then I
told her that her words had troubled
me, and begged her to come with me
for one of the olden time chats in her
little sanctum.

"Auntie." I whispered, when the door

was shut, " Do you know Ralph has come
home ? "

Yes, Miriam, and I am very thankful.
He has been in England some days, but I
did not find it as easy as I expected to
make him forgive ; however, I thank God
all is well now. It has been such a weight
on my mind dear, for I felt myself responsible
for their happiness."

And now, auntie, do you not feel responsible
for Mr. Radcliffe's also ? " I asked.

'' Undoubtedly dear, that goes without
telling ; you forget that our interests are
now identical."

That is my own Aunt Phyllis," I cried,
joyously, "but how could you say that you
did not think you would ever go to Little
Newington ? "

So, Miriam, your faith failed you !
Well, child, I would have trusted you with
clearer evidence against you. Nevertheless,

I will tell you a secret. I have a present
to give my future husband tomorrow. Can
you guess what it is, Miriam ? "

A sermon case of your own making ^ "

Nothing that has cost me half so nmch
trouble," she laughed. Then her face grew
serious.

"Miriam, I do not think I could leave
Heathley, I have lived here all my life ;
every leaf and tree and flower in this dear
old garden is precious to me, not less so
the old home where we were all born and
reared; and up there," looking in the direction
where the church stood enshrouded in
darkness, " lie our beloved dead. No ! I
could not leave Greenholm, dear."

Then is Mr. Had cliff e coming to live
here ? " I asked, in wonder.

Yes, Miriam, I hope so. My gift is the
advowson of this living, which the present
vicar was anxious to dispose of, so that I

VOL. III. p

need not be parted from any of you ; and
indeed, I do not think I could have left
my mother, and she, on the other hand,
could never have deserted her old home.
Things have been very mercifully ordered,
Miriam, we may truly believe that all is for
the best. So now, my husband will labour
among the poor whom I love so well, and I
am more glad than I can tell you that it is
so. But now, dear, run down and give a
welcome to Ralph ; his parting from you
was a painful one, let your meeting be
happy."

So I went and tapped at the door, and
entering, wished them both happiness, as
though they were newly married; and it
seemed like a fresh going away when the
morning after Christmas Day, Ralph handed
his beautiful young wife, with a happy,
hopeful face, into the waiting carriage ; only
there was a hostage present to speak of the

past — their baby boy; of whom, my brother-in-law
was wondrous careful, lifting him
into the carriage himself, and wrapping his
long cloak carefully around him ; and thus,
for the second time, they set out on life's
journey, and, as it seemed to me, with more
prospect of happiness than before. Those
months of anxiety and waiting had been a
severe lesson to my impatient sister, and
she felt how very nearly she had lost her
husband. How nearly, perhaps only he
and Aunt Phyllis knew. Then, regret on
his part for the loss of that truer love must
be laid aside, for he had been told of her
engagement to Mr. RadclifFe. He had said
nothing, it is true, but somehow, I verily
believe he thought himself badly used ;
and therefore, leaned all the more on his
wife's regained affection.

Florence had told him of that will which

had been burnt, and before he left Green

2

holm, lie took my aunt by both her hands,
and said, brokenly, 'phyllis, I find I owe
all to you, even to the roof which is to
shelter me ; yet, had I known it in time, I
should have wished you to have kept it."

Then you would have wished something
very wrong, Ralph. You have your
boy to come after you, and the old name
and the old acres must never be parted.
Florence should not have betrayed my
secret. Now, good bye ; see, she is waiting
for you ; mind, you must not make her
jealous again, Ralph. Good bye, and God
bless you."

That had been a happy Christmas-tide
for all ; but, like most earthly joys, it was
shadowed by sorrow — the sorrow for the
dear absent ones. I felt the tears well up
into my eyes as I looked towards the place
at table where Bob had been wont to sit,
wondering somewhat wearily when he would

take his seat there aouin — nettle dreamiiiQ: —
Ah ! Bob, my dear, dear brother, my heart
yearned for you in that family gathering
where all seemed so bright ; my love went
out to you across the mighty ocean, andover
the arid desert ; over the towns and
cities of other climes, over the cloud capped
mountains, and the deep, silent rivers.
And so soul spoke to soul, and we were
united, though apart. Bob, one other, and
I, that Christmas-tide.

How glad we were that my sister and
her husband were reconciled. It had lifted a
great weight from my mind. I had feared
for her, she was so young, so thoughtless,
so self-willed ; so strong for good or evil,
that had her husband not come back, I cannot
think what would have become of her.
To return to Aunt Phyllis's roof a dependent
and a suppliant, would scarcely
have been brooked by her proud spirit ;

as it was, all was well, and we earnestly
trusted it would remain so.

The look of care had passed away from
Aunt Phyllis's brow, and one of peace
rested there instead. She looked forward
hopefully to the new path of life which was
about to open for her.

"Auntie," I whispered, one day, laying
my hand upon her shoulder, " I think
you are happier, I believe so." And
she had lifted those earnest eyes to mine
so fully.

Yes. dear, I am so glad that Ralph and
Florence are re-united, and personally, I
am very thankful to be permitted to go
through life side by side with one so really
good as Mr. Radcliffe, and I hope I shall bea
help to him, little Miriam. I mean to try''

*' Auntie, you will be a crown to him ! "
I exclaimed, warmly, " and already he looks
ten years younger for his happiness."

•' Poor fellow ! I don't think much has
come to his share so far ; his life has been a
hard one indeed. He has taken care of
others and forgotten himself' said Aunt
Phyllis.

I believe that is quite true, auntie," I
replied, "and I used to be so sorry when
our naughty Flo played upon his feelings :
but that is over now, and he will soon be
safe in port, dear, and I am so glad." Then
I kissed her, and she went away to talk to
Mr. Radcliffe, and I to sit with my friend
Miss Caroline.

Miriam, dear," she • said, *' here are
Christmas wishes for you come a day too
late." And I knew from whom she meant.

'' They are equally welcome, dear," I
answered, and added, " How is he ? "
For I could not pretend that T did not
know.

He is fairly well, Miriam, but thinks

the climate is somewhat telling upon his
health, and he gives me a cheering piece of
news'

T lift my eyes to hers, and see that she is
smiling at me, and then she answers the
question they had silently asked. And I
learn, that his regiment will be home the
very next year, and a great weave of joy
sweeps over me, and carries all other
thoughts away, leaving only that one.

He was coming home ; after all the
weary years of absence — he was coming
back. Then all the blood receded from my
heart, leaving me white and trembling.

Oh ! Miss Caroline, shall I be allowed
to see him '? " I gasped. " If he were in
England, and I could not give him one
word of welcome, that would indeed be
hard to bear ; harder than it is now''

Poor child," she murmured, " yet you
should be happy Miriam, for he loves yov.,

but it will not be my fault if you do not
meet."

Do you think papa would permit it 1
Do you think he would consent to my
seeing him ? " I questioned, eagerly.

There was a strange look in the dear
old face, as she said softly —

' What may tomorrow bring — who can
tell ? ' We can but do our best to persuade Sir
Charteris, my dear, and we must leave the
result in higher hands ; " and I noticed that
she was unusually thoughtful, although a
smile played about her lips ; a smile which
I often surprised there for many days after,
but which vanished when those sad tidings
came to us from Afghanistan, and the news
which soon followed, that both Herbert Armstrong's
and my brother's regiments were
ordered over the frontier upon active service.
I had never cared much for newspapers,
and, except reading the leading articles to

Sir Charter, they had held no place in my
daily life ; but, after I had heard that two
of my dearest were in that strange and
treacherous land — a land already dyed by
the blood of our countrymen in days gone
by, then indeed, the paper became my first
thought. I used to sit by the window to
watch for it. With ever increasing fear
my trembling fingers opened it day by day ;
with sickening anxiety and suspense I
scanned the telegrams and more protracted
accounts, looking for two names only among
the throng of killed and wounded. Those
alone, whose dear ones are before the enemy
know how such search the death lists ; or
the gasp of relief which escapes from their
hearts on not finding what they look for,
and so dread to see.

Doubtless, the name of the battle of
Mainland is scarcely remembered by some,
but by us it can never be forgotten.

Whose fault that defeat was caused by,
it is not for me to say, much less to judge ;
but it cost me one of my dearest, my
brother Bob !

Never again should we see the bright,
earnest young face, never more have a smile
from those true dark eyes.

The empty chair which had struck me
with such sadness only the Christmas
before would never again be filled by him,
and there were none to say farewell to him
none to shed one tear over the new-made
grave.

He had died a soldier's death, poor boy, a
death which should ever be remembered.

Have you heard of that brave little band
which, though all was lost, would not be
conquered ?

Bob was one of their number.

Let me tell you what they did, and as
you sit at home beside your fire give a

thought to those who are fighting for your
country's honour — think of the soldier's
life, the soldier's death. Speak to your
children of them, and do not forget the fate
of that handful of brave men at Mainland.

There have been " forlorn hopes " since
wars first began, but surely none was evermore
forlorn than this.

The army was scattered, cut up, had
fled ; but a remnant was left — a remnant often.
Picture the scene. They stand side
by side, and hand to hand, with a host
before them, behind them, around them.
There is no hope, not one glimmer ; but
they charge — they rush on with a cheer ;
their enemies fall back, surprised into
admiration for the men who are their foes.
They are ashamed to close them in and
slaughter them — actually ashamed, as a
man, who is a man, would be ashamed to
strike a woman, or one weaker than himself;

but their chiefs rally them and lead
them on against that little band of ten.

They know well that their hour has come,
but their courage never forsakes them.
Back to back they stand there, each face
set and pale — ready for death. Their enemies
may annihilate them, but it is a poor
victory, for they cannot make them quail.
There they fight, there they die. Still such
pluck may be seen — for the love of the
right and the love of their Queen.

But think you they do it for the miserable
pittance they receive as pay ?

Hardly so, when a road7maker can earn
more than a subaltern officer !

Yet wherever there is risk and danger,
with the hope of glory, men will go, without
counting the cost. God help them !
Whether they receive any thanks or no, let
each judge for himself.

I have my own opinion upon the matter.

It went hard with my poor father, the
loss of his eldest son ; it went hard with us
all. There was nothing left us but to
mourn for him.

I never knew Sir Charteris so tender ashe
was to me at that time ; perhaps it was
because I, who was Bob's own sister, could
enter more perfectly into his feelings.

Ah ! how I used to wish that, since death
had been his allotted portion, he had been
lying in the dear old churchyard by the
hill side, that I might have had a grave to
weep by ; but I knew that such wishes
where vain.

My father received a kind letter from
Herbert Armstrong. He had seen my
brother that very morning before they had
gone into action, and thought he would
like to hear all that had passed between
them then. He also gave a detailed account

of that fatal fight. He had himself been
wounded early in the day, and had been
carried off the battlefield — a fact which had
doubtless saved his life.

I think my father was touched at Herbert's
having written to him in his trouble,
for lie handed me the letter in silence
which was more eloquent than words, and
in silence I returned it.

Ah ! how glad I felt that one friend at
least had been there that morning to clasp
his hand ! Yes, probably my Herbert's had
been the last which had touched his, herein
life.

Ah, well ! In the large continental
churches every day may be seen marriages
and funerals going on at the same time ;
and so it is with our lives.

Aunt Phyllis was anxious to put off her
wedding, but we would not hear of it. She
had indeed waited long enough for happiness,

and now we could but hope it would
come to her.

She was not superstitious about black
garments at her marriage, and her own
were grey ; a quiet, sad-faced, sweet-featured
bride was dear Aunt Phyllis.

Bob was her own sisters son, and lie
grieved for . him sorely. Grandmamma
Costelion was sorry too, in her own
cold way, but I am sure she believed in
her own mind that it had been retributive
justice for having taken up such
an evil practice as smoking — a judgment,
in fact !

Oh ! my dear, clear Bob, my darling
brother ! smoke proved your winding-sheet,
the smoke of the rifle and the cannon, and
their hiss and roar your dirge.

Our recent bereavement was reason
enough for having the quietest of quiet
weddings. Not even my sister and her

husband were invited ; and surely it was
better so — best for us all.

Aunt Phyllis s own carriage conveyed her
to the church, accompanied by Sir Charteris,
Grandmamma Armatage, and myself. No
one else was present, for no one had been
told that the event was to take place. The
old vicar had come over to perform the ceremony,
and my father gave the bride away,
after which we all partook of the Holy
Communion. It was a quiet and peaceful
service, and to my mind was better altogether
than those gay scenes where the noise
and crowd preclude all reverence. Then the
carriage took Mr. and Mrs. Radcliffe home,
and we walked back across the fields, and
after an unpretending breakfast the bride
and bridegroom started on their travels.
They had arranged no fixed route, but intended
taking a month's holiday, and then
returning to their joint duties at Heathley.

VOL. III. Q

I felt that now my dear aunt was married
we ought no longer to cumber her home ;
but she would not hear of our going away,
and indeed where could we go '?

At length we decided on paying a visit
to Florence and Ralph, and then one to
Miss Caroline Montague, so that the newly-married
pair should shake into their position
untrammelled ; but their requests for
our return were so urgent, and Heathley
seemed so much like home to us, that we
went back most joyfully.

We had found my sister looking welland
happy, and at last contented, and
after six weeks' sojourn under her roof we
left, with the full certainty that she really
was so.

I thought I sometimes saw a wistful look
upon Ralph's face when we spoke of Aunt
Phyllis and her husband ; but no one else
seemed to notice it, not even his wife, so I

^\'ill jot accuse lira of being a dog in the
niano'cr.

Miss Caroline was just the same dear,
kind Miss Caroline as ever, only more
feeble. She was one of those people whose
friendship never wavers, never varies — one
in whom you may trust implicitly. Being
under the same roof with my father, he
grew to like and admire her scarcely less
than I did myself, and 1 could see plainly
that he was influenced by her opinions,
even though he did not acknowledge the
fact.

More than once I surprised them talking
of Herbert, and though their converse ceased
at my entrance, I could not help thinking
that to get Sir Charteris to speak of him at
all was a point gained.

And then we went home to Greenholm.

Sir Chaiieris had not been moved from

his cozy study ; another had been found

q2

upstairs for Mr. Radcliffe, and both were
content.

It was indeed a kind welcome which dear
Aunt PhylHs gave us. She said her home
had not been homehke without his, and I
know she meant it.

Sir Charteris was all the happier for
having a companion, of his own sex too, and
many were the political discussions which
he and Mr. Radcliffe held.

My father was of course a Tory, while
the vicar, although a Conservative, was a
very liberal one indeed.

"Every man has a right to his own
opinion," he maintained.

I cannot agree with you," returned Sir
Charters, " and you as a clergyman should
uphold authority. Things are bad enough
already, reverence and obedience seem to
be things of the past, and the age of insubordination
to have set in. It is quite sufficient

reason now to be insulted that you
are a gentleman."

There is too much truth in what you
say' answered Mr. Radcliffe, sadly, "and
I do not see the remedy when men like
Bradlaugh are elected to represent the
people, a man avowedly without religion."

"^ Do not name him to me," cried Sir
Charteris. " Why, if the combined boroughs
of Sodom and Gomorrah had returned a
member, they could not have elected a
worse man."

That is strong condemnation, Sir
Charteris," cried the vicar, with an amused
smile, which, however, quickly faded as he
continued, " It never does to pull the string
too tightly, so I maintain that men should
be allowed their own opinions, but we
should try and influence them."

'' Influence ! nonsense ! The ^fortiter in
re ' is the only sort of treatment they

understand ; smooth words and arguments
to them merely signify want of power."

*' I fear it is the spirit of Antichrist
which we see around us, a spirit which weare
warned against in the Bible. People
forget that in rendering obedience to those
set over them here they are honouring God'

You look at the matter from a religious
point of view, I from a political one. What
is to become of England, with the party
spirit now existent, should worse wars come
upon us ? As it is, our national hands are
full enough, and there are black clouds
over africa and Ireland even now"

There are indeed ; but Englishmen,
whatever their politics, will, I am sure,
come to the rescue whenever the country's
honour shall be threatened ; although they
may not even know it themselves, there
must be patriotism as there must be religion
in every heart."

But is there religion in every heart V
questioned Sir Charteris. " One would
scarcely believe it if you cast your eye
daily down the police reports."

James Martineau tells us that ' Religion
is born as thought begins that it is
?*eborn ' when thought is consummated and
enters into its glory.' The mind, like the
Garden of Eden, was made beautiful, and it
is by the sin of man that the weeds and
briars have sprung up and changed it to a
wilderness."

The next question which arises is what
you mean by religion?" said my father,
sententiously. " Now, you as a clergyman
would probably hold narrower views upon
that point than I do. A piece I read in
one of Victor Hugo's books a few days since
struck me. He says : * How many men
have thought that they were praying to
Jupiter, while they were praying to

Jehovah ! How many believers in amulets
have been heard by the Infinite 1 How
many Atheists fail to perceive that, by the
sole fact of being good and sorrowful, they
are praying to God!"

So that, after all, you think there is a
chance for Bradlaugh," returned the vicar,
smiling. " Well, it is of no use for us to
speculate from what remote quarters God
may see fit to collect the jewels for His
crown. Sir Charteris. All we know is, that
each stone according to its nature must be
real and good. There is no religion in
which truth cannot be found, and I fear
none in which there is not error."

CHAPTER XXII.

'aunt Phyllis," I said, suddenly, looking
1123 at her one day, "you made me a promise
years ago, and you have never fulfilled
it, but I want you to do so now. Do you
remember, almost when first I knew you,
repeating a verse to me which you told me
had been sent to you by a friend one
Christmas-tide ? Well, you promised to tell
me that friend s history, and I should like
to hear it."

'•'What makes you remember it after all
this while, Miriam ?" asked my aunt.

I can hardly tell, but it is not the first

time it lias occurred to my memory by
many, although I have never asked about
it."

"It is not much of a story, dear, but
only the record of a young girl's folly : —

I had a schoolfellow. She was a pretty,
wilful, blue eyed girl — not unlike Florence,
both in disposition and appearance, although,
to my mind, she was less beautiful.
Her faults were very plainly visible, but
somehow I was fond of her — indeed, there
was something sunny in her nature which
invited love, and most people took to herat
first, even if they gave her up in despair
afterwards. She was undoubtedly a great
flirt, and got herself into constant scrapes
in consequence ; but I always felt that
there was much excuse to be made for her,
from the fact of her having been brought
up without the influence of her parents,
who were in India.

When her schooldays were over lie
was to ]ive in the house of an elderly
gentleman of good family, who resided in a
fine old place in Herefordshire, whose name
was Leigh, he being her fathers greatest
friend. I hardly think it was an advisable
arrangement, for Mr. Leigh was a bachelor,
and moreover had a nephew living with
him, who was his presumptive heir.

This nephew was not, however, at home
when my friend first went into Herefordshire,
and by the time he returned — from
college I believe— she was quite a pet with
the old man, and it was not long before
she was beloved by the young one.

He was very good and gentle to her,
and she grew fond of him in return, and
behaved fairly well until they became engaged,
when the spirit of mischief peeped
out and she commenced to torment her
lover.

He bore it passively at first, but after
a time, not only were her caprices well-nigh
unbearable, but she took to flirting in
order to make him jealous, and well she
succeeded.

"All this I have learnt from her own
lips, for I never knew the young man himself.
She must have made him suffer very
greatly, I fear, for the engagement was
broken off, and he returned to college.

"His uncle was from home and knew
nothing of the circumstances of the case but
what she told him when he came back, and
I fear she did not act as she should have
done.

She only was to blame, as she well
knows ; but she did not acknowledge this
fact to Mr. Leigh, who was furious with his
nephew, and wrote him an intemperate
letter, in which he enclosed a cheque, telling
him it was the last money he would

ever receive from him ; moreover, he added
something in which he was not justified,
namely, that he intended to marry Laura
himself."

"And did he?" I asked, as she paused,
just as I had asked that sam e question of
my friend, Mr. Lyndhurst, when he had
told me the tale of his blighted life ; and
as I thought of him, it struck me suddenly
how similar these two stories were, told
from different points of view, and I grew
even more interested. Laura ! why it was
the very name of the girl he had loved.

No, she would not marry him. When
it was too late she found out the truth,
that there was only one man in the world
she ever could love, and that she had lost
mm.

Would he not forgive her V \ asked.

She has never heard of him from that
day to this, so she could not ask him."

"And Mr. Leigh?"

Oh, he was very angry at first, but he
forgave her before his death, and left her
the old place which should have been his
nephew's ; but it is shut up, she will not
live there. Her parents died in India, and
a small fortune came to her from them.
On that she lives in a cottage on the estate,
so that she may see it does not go to rack
and ruin ; but not one penny of the money
will she touch, for she says she has no
moral right to it, and I must confess I agree
with her ; and if ever he returns he will find
the money accumulated into a very large
sum. Poor Laura Kilburn ! her life is a sad
and solitary one. She never leaves Herefordshire
in case her old lover may return."

'auntie," I said, with emotion, "what is
his name ?"

She would never tell me, Miriam, so I
don't know."

"Aunt Phyllis' I cried, excitedly, 'tell
me what sort of a woman this Laura Kil-burn
is now''

"She has been refined in sorrow's furnace,
dear, and is now true metal."

"Would she welcome him ? would she be
worthy of him if he came back ?"

I think I may say yes to both those
questions, Miriam."

Then they shall be reconciled. Oh !
auntie, I am so glad. He has looked so
miserable all these years, that is ever since
I have known him."

Who mee you talking about, Miriam ?
He f You have known him ; what can
you mean V

Yes, auntie, and what's more, you know
him too."

My dear, what nonsense you are talking
! I shall have to edit you," said she,
smiling. " How can you or I know Laura

Kilburn's lover, when he left England at
that tune, and has never been heard of
since."

*' Nevertheless, he has been in this very
house," 1 cried, joyfully. " Now, auntie,
guess who it is! What! give it up already?
Why you have no perseverance. Well,
what do you think of its being Mr. Lynd-
hurst ? He told me Its version of the story
years since."

Mr. Lyndhurst ! is it possible 1 Surely
not ; if the truth must be told, Miriam, I
thought he cared for someone else."

We are the best of friends, auntie, that
is all," I replied, blushing.

"Oh ! who mentioned you in the case, my
dear child f laughed my aunt, 'equi s excuse
accused don't you know?"

"Aunt Phyllis, please be serious: here
are two people who really love each other,
though parted from an unfortunate misunderstanding

; surely it is our duty to
try and bring them together adam."

'' You are a good girl, Miriam," said my
aunt, kindly. " We will do our best for
our respective friends."

But, auntie, you like Mr. Lyndhurst
too."

Yes ! undoubtedly ; I think him a true
man."

*'He has a large share of pride, auntie —
right and proper pride, I mean. I am sure
he would not take the property from Miss
Kilburn. It was left her by his uncle, and
he v/ill deem it hers, nor do I believe he
would marry her if he knew she possessed
it. I think we must make her play a part.
Let him meet her here ; he never need
know the truth until they are re-engaged
or eveu~ married ; then she can take him
home, and there can be no question as to
which of them the house belongs."

VOL. III. R

"Quite like the denouement of a novel,
Miriam," laughed my aunt; 'but I believe
you are right. Will you promise to produce
the gentleman for this drama in real
life if I secure the lady V

Yes I-will undertake my part," I replied.


"I fancy yours will be easier than mine'*
said my aunt, thoughtfully. "I do not
believe I shall be able to get her away
from home unless I tell her the reason
why."

"Well, then, do so."

'rand she must remain here till they are
married."

"Auntie, how good you are ; your house
is a refuge for the destitute."

The more the merrier," she replied,
and I shall be right glad to see poor
Laura happy."

"And I, to know Mr. Lyndhurst is so.

Auntie, it has made fine quite sad often to
think of him in his solitary home ; and he
has grown to look so careworn of late."

"What would your lover say to your
interest in this young doctor, Miriam?"
asked my aunt, smoothing my hair with a
gentle hand.

He is not very young, auntie," I
laughed, *rand if you knew Herbert you
would not ask. He would not love me
unless he could trust me too."

She stooped and kissed me.

That is right, darling ; always have
such faith in one another ; it will keep your
love fresh and green."

Aunt PhyUis lost no time in talking the

matter over with her husband, and it was

settled that she should run down and break

the good news to her friend, for good news

wants breaking as well as bad sometimes ;

and before many days were over she

K 2

returned, bringing a stranger with her.
It was Laura Kilburn. She was still a
handsome woman, and there yet remained
that nameless fascination about her of
which Mr. Lyndhurst had spoken. I wrote
to him and asked him to come and see meat
once — stating no reason — and my letter
brought him quickly, as I expected it
would do.

Miss Miriam, I am relieved to find you
well at any rate, he said, cordially ; "I
trust however none of your home party
require my services officially."

It is I who need you, my friend," I said,
quietly. *' Please take a chair, and let us
have a talk ; indeed, I want you to listen
to a little story which I wish you to hear "

"If I can help you in any way, you
know you have only to command me," he
returned.

I believe it, Mr. Lyndhurst. Well, to

begin at once, do you remember a long
while ago telling me the story of the disappointment
of your life ? I see you do ;
do not trouble to answer ; and having
suffered yourself you will, I feel sure, be
willing to try and help another who has
suffered too, although not quite so blamelessly.
This person, however, is a woman.
1 will tell my tale in the good old fashion,
Mr. Lyndhurst. There was once a young
girl who had been born and reared in early
childhood in India, and who, like many
others, had been sent home to school in
England before her character was at all
formed. There she learned, and there she
grew to womanhood. She was a very
sweet-looking girl, and perhaps for that
very reason, or perhaps because she had
known so little of a mother's tender guidance,
she was somewhat vain and foolish, as
girls will be. When she left school she

went to live with an old friend of her

father's'' Mr. Lyndhurst here started,

and fixed his earnest eyes upon my face.
'' That old friend had a nephew who grew
to love this girl "

^' Miriam' he cried, " why repeat to me
that old tale ? Do I not know it all but too
well ? "

You promised to hear me out," I said,
simply. " There is such a thing as a story
told in two voices ; let me continue." He
made a gesture of assent, and I went on.
The uncle desired a marriage between
these two, and loving each other both were
glad."

She never loved me," he broke in
passionately. But I stopped him with a
wave of my hand.

They became engaged, and to show her
power over him she teazed and tormented
him until that engagement was broken off.

The uncle was very angry, and wrote to his
nephew, sending inn money, ind at the
same time telhnof him that from henceforward
they must be strangers."

"He informed me he intended to marry
the girl who was to have been my wife,"
he muttered through his clenched teeth.

I know it. Well, you went away."

And he married her ! " burst from him,
bitterly.

Who told you so, Mr. Lyndhurst ? " I
asked in a quiet, firm voice.

Told me ! " he echoed ; then stopped
short, and looked at me with a pale set
face. " I did not need much more telling-after
the receipt of that letter."

*' But did you ever ascertain, Mr.
Lyndhurst, that your uncle was j justified in
writing what he did ^ Do you not think
that many a girl who loves a man truly
has quarrelled with him and said many

things which she afterwards bitterly
regrets ? "

He grasped my wrist convulsively. " For
God's sake tell me the truth."

I will ; Laura Kilburn has never
married, because there was but one man in
the world she could love and that man was
yourself' A glad cry escaped him ; but T
proceeded. " Your uncle was very angry
with her, but he forgave you both at the
last. Your old love has lost both her
parents, so that she is now alone in the
world, and has been living in a little cottage
of her own upon the small income left herby
her father."

I should have fancied my uncle would
have bequeathed her the whole of his
estate," he said, thoughtfully ; " but I am
glad he did not ; that would have prevented
my ever seeking her again. No one shall
accuse me of regaining the old acres so.

Do you know to whom he left them, Miss
Miriam ? "

That is of course rather a painful
subject to Miss Kilburn, Mr. Lyndhurst.
Let me warn you not to name it to her ; it
would pain her, I am sure. She is such
a sweet woman, that I cannot doubt there
is much happiness in store for you."

You speak as if you knew her,
Miriam."

And so I do' 1 replied ; and as I
spoke the door opened, and Laura Kilburn
stood within the room.

She was not aware of the arrival of her
old lover, but she knew him.

For one moment they gazed at each
other, then he called her by her name.
Laura ! " I saw her advance towards him
with outstretched hands, and I was satisfied
to know no more.

*' Aunt Phyllis' I cried, as I ran into

her little sanctum. 'aunt Phyllis ! they
have met, and all is well."

*' I am very glad, little Miriam, and you
must be very glad too, for they owe their
happiness to you. Fancy your finding out
Laura Kilburn's long-lost lover in your
family doctor ; it is quite a romance. And
now we only want some good fairy to weave
her golden wand over your poor little head.
It is not fair that we should all be in the
sunshine, while you are out in the cold."

I am content to be in the shadows, if
only the sunlight rest brightly on thee," I
sang merrily, for I was glad that day in the
joy of others.

45--rr Vz-/- '/-

Of Trevelyan I have of late said nothing,
simply because I had seen nothing, and
had heard little of him.

Aunt Phyllis had been told of a college
at Heidelberg', where the education was

both o-ood and moderate, and the lad having:
shown a great aptitude for languages, she
and Sir Charteris thought it the best thing
that could be done with him to send him
there. We received from the masters good
accounts of him, but I must confess that
his letters were few and far between, and
when they did arrive there was not much
in them. They were different indeed from
the chatty amusing epistles which my dear
lost Bob used to send me ; but then,
perhaps, he felt that I was only his half-sister
; and when he was at home, even asa
child, I do not think that Trevelyan cared
very much for either Florence or me.
Now, however, the time was drawing near
for his return, though he had not informed
us when to expect him.

One day I was walking down the street
when a cab passed, and a gentleman inside
nodded to me familiarly, but as I did not

know him I walked on and took no notice.
This seemed to amuse him, and pulling the
check-string he jumped out. He was a
tall young man about twenty years of age,
with a fair moustache, and coming up with
mock politeness he took off his hat — "Miss
Costelion ! " he exclaimed, superciliously.

I was turning away indignantly, thinking
this some unheard of piece of impertinence,
when the young fellow burst into a merry
laugh.

I am a^vfuUy glad to find you so
prudent, Miriam ; what, don't you know
me ? well, I have put on a few inches
certainly, and grown a fringe on my upper
lip, but family instinct and all that sort of
thing, should have put you on the scent at
once."

''Oh! Tre," I cried, "how altered you
are ! who could ever have expected you to
come back such a man 1 "

What did you expect me to turn into 1
a woman?"

I see you are just as great a tease as
ever," I laughed, " but I am right down
glad to see you," and I gave him a kiss
there and then, m the middle of the street.

Take care, Imam, take care, there's
not the faintest trace of family likeness
between us ; you will not have a shred of
reputation left, if you do this sort of thing.
Jump in, we may as well go home together.
What a brick Aunt Phyllis is ! and what
on earth should we have done without
her?"

'' She has indeed been good to us. Well,
she will not lose her reward."

*' You remind me of a story I heard the
the other day," laughed my brother. " Someone
was talking goody-goody to a very independent,
obstinate old woman, and telling
her about Heaven. ' T have no fears of

not going there,' she said, decidedly. ' I
have never done anything wrong in my life.
I was a good daughter to my father and
mother, and Widow Giles never had a
kinder friend than me ; so when I get to
the gate I shall just mention their omnes,
that will be quite passport enough, I'll
warrant. Oh ! there's no fear about my
getting admittance ; ' and, I am sure if
Aunt Phyllis mentions our names, St. Peter
himself will escort her in''

I think your old woman must have
been a very wicked old creature, Tre," I
said.

'' Oh ! yes, that's of course ; but it is a
capital story nevertheless. And here we are
at Greenholm. By the by, you have an
addition to the family since I left. What
sort of an uncle does old Radcliffe make ?
I say, Miriam, do you remember the knees
of his trousers that day, and Flo saying

they were made at Kino's ? the trousers, you
know, not the knees — but that was really a
libel on Kino, for I had some made there
myself, and they were worthy of Poole ;
fitted awfully well. It is quite a case of
what's in a name V If a man professes to
be a cheap jack, no one believes in his bargains,
however good they may really be.
Now let's surprise Aunt Phyllis. I wonder
if she will know me !" And thus rattling on,
unaltered as to his high spirits, he entered
the house.

"Auntie, I have brought a gentleman
home to see you ! '^

For a moment, I believe she thought it
was Herbert, then, no doubt it struck her
he was too young ; and after regarding him
attentively, she ran up and kissed him.

"Why, how you have grown, Trevelyan ! "
she exclaimed, " I really don't know how
we shall make room for a great fellow like

you. I had had your own bed prepared
for you, but you have grown out of it."

Never mind, auntie, I can put a chair at
the bottom to lengthen it. We are used
to short beds in Germany, and have a
feather bed over us instead of blankets,
and they are not fond of washing over
there, I can tell you ; you should see the
things they give you to tub in, not much
larger than tea cups, or slop basins at best.
And how well you are looking, you dear
old auntie, matrimony seems to have made
you ten years younger. Now, if you were
not my aunt, I believe I should get awful
spoons on you, auntie, you are such a
sweet, dear little woman — but how's the
vicar f

"He is very well, dear, and is looking
forward to finding great progress in his old
pupil."

I expect he is as jolly as a sandboy. He

has fallen on his legs, auntie, that's my
opinion."

Let me hear about yourself, Tre," said
Aunt Phyllis, quietly, and it was evident
to me, at any rate, that she did not like my
brother's personal remarks, and I think he
saw it too, for he said hurriedly, '* and now
I think I had better pay my respects to the
governor."

"Yes, but don't call him so," I laughed,
"for he would not like it at all ; remember
he has not been accustomed to your wild
colt ways lately."

I'll recollect." And he dashed off at full
speed.

He is quite a boy still, except in
stature," remarked my aunt, looking after
him kindly. " He has grown a handsome
young fellow."

Yes, but it is not such a face as Bob's ;

he was so earnest, one felt one might trust
VOL. iir. s

him so fully; there was such a reliable lookin
his dear, dark eyes. Dear, dear Bob !
Oh ! how I wish we had him back."

You must not say that, Miriam dear,
must not think it ; you would not msh him
less happy I am sure. Think of him at
rest, with the work of perfection ever going
on, as the buried grain ripens unseen ; just
waiting for us all to join him, and for his
Lord's coming. ''

I am selfish, auntie, I was thinking of
myself

"Think of him instead then, dear, and
your sorrow will be Halter to bear." And
I promised that I would try.

Sir Charteris was pleased to see his son
back, now, alas ! his only son.

Grandmamma Costelion kept a somewhat
severe eye upon him ; she was evidently reading
him, and from the expression of her face
I feared her summing up was not particularly

favourable ; indeed, his nonchalant,
somewhat noisy manners made his father
look grave too, occasionally. I know that
both were thinking that he was most unlike
a Costelion. But the evening passed
off very well, and Aunt Phyllis, Grand-mamma
Armatage, and Mr. Radcliffe, all
seemed pleased and amused by him, the
fatal effects of patrician blood, I suppose ;
as for myself, mine being mixed, he entertained
me, yet grated on my feelings sometimes.
His future plans were talked of
freely. He still had an inclination for the
bar, and it was settled that chambers at the
Temple should be taken for him forthwith.

"Good night," he cried, as, having seen
that he had everything he needed in his
little bedroom, I was going away to my own.
Good night, old girl, God bless you ; the
devil miss you ; say your prayers !" What

a benediction !

s 2

Trevelyan, what a wild boy you are ! "
I said, stooping to kiss him.

Boy indeed ! I Hke you, Miriam."

I am glad of that, Tre, and I like you
too ; but oh ! dear, have you thought of
poor Bob en this day of home coming ? I
don't like him to be forgotten, Tre, for he is
ever present with us now remember, inspirit."


'' There ! you have spoilt my night's
rest' he cried crossly. " What things you
women are, full of morbid fancies. You
did not love poor old Bob better than I did,
but he is gone, poor old chap, and what is
the use of talking of it."

Tears were in my eyes as I kissed him,
and they fell upon his face.

"Come now, Mira, I don't want a
shower bath," he cried ; " we're not used to
much water in Genuine."

Morbid fancies ! Were they so ? 1 think

not. But when I reached my room, I drew
up my blind and sat gazing on the star-lit
heavens, thinking of Bob.

Was either of those bright glittering
worlds his home, or to be his home hereafter
? Who could tell ?

I felt that his presence was very near,
and those beautiful words of Morsels came
to me and gave me comfort ; —

In the lone walk, by the bright hearth of home,
In the world's pathways, mid the hush of prayer,
"Where mine eyes wander, where my footsteps roam.
He is beside me, with me, everywhere.

In the old haunts where we so often stray'd,
Down by the river, up the woodland lawn,

In the deep tender gloom of evening's shade,

In the bright bursting break of morning's dawn.

Whenever pleasant sight, or gentle sound,
Lightens the eye, or lingers on the ear,

I see his form, the music floats around.

Of his sweet voice — I hear it everywhere."

CHAPTER Xxii

MmiAM, what is the matter ? " asked
Aunt Phyllis, kindly, upon entering the
room next day. " Have you bad news 1 "

I was sitting there, with an open letter
upon Giy lap, my hands clasped, and my
eyes full of thankful tears.

No, auntie ; good, good news, thank
God ! My darling Herbert has been promoted
to the rank of major by death
vacancies, and has received his brevet 
for his services, and is
actually on his way home. Only think of
that, auntie ! And if you can manage to take

her in, Miss Caroline has proposed herself
for a little visit. She has heard from Herbert
; and, oh ! auntie, dear, he still wants
^ me for his wife ; and I am so, so happy !
If only my father will consent, oh ! if only
he will ! We have loved each other so
long. I know that is why Miss Caroline
is coming, dear kind creature, she is going
to try and persuade him. Do you think
there is any chance of her succeeding ? " I
asked, anxiously, and there was a happy,
mischievous look in my aunt's eyes, as she
replied, holding my hand in hers.

I congratulate you-little Miriam, on
your lover s success in his profession, and
on his safe return home. Something tells
me you will be a happy woman, after all,
child."

Do you really think so ? ^'

"Well, Miriam, it all depends on Miss
Caroline's influence over your father."

Is not that a forlorn hope ? "

*' We cannot tell what arguments she
will use, you see ; we know, however, that
she will do her best, and we must leave the
issue in higher hands."

And will you write her a line to say she
may come, auntie. Can you manage for
her '? "

*' Greenholm is very elastic, dear. We
shall be able to make her comfortable, no
doubt."

Auntie, how good you are ! "

"Miriam, how often have you said
that 1 "

And she kissed me, and then bade me
run away, while she wrote her letters.

Miss Caroline arrived. The very next
day she spent the whole morning in my
father's study, and came out with so happy
a face that my heart cried that all must be
well, and when I next saw Sir Charteris,

there was such a look of happiness and contentment
upon his face that I could only
wonder. Aunt Phyllis, too, seemed to
share in their satisfaction ; but, although, I
was dying to know what had transpired, I
felt I could not ask, and not one word of
information did either of the three vouchsafe
me.

Another thing I noticed, too, that Miss
Caroline had letters which she actually hid
from me. What could it all mean ? Had
their faces not been so serene, I should
have thought that my father had again
rejected my Herbert ; but-I felt that, loving
me as they did, they could not look so
happy over my misfortune. Ah ! how I
wondered all that day, how my heart fluttered
at every sound, yet I scarce knew
why.

How the pendulum of hope and fear
oscillated, and the day closed in without

one word, with nothing to mark it from
others, but their happy faces, and those
hidden letters ; and, in the evening, a
telegram for Miss Caroline !

After breakfast, the next morning. Aunt
Phyllis asked me to go with her to visit
some poor people, and we started off with
two well filled baskets, and did not get
back till after noon.

When we arrived the servant who admitted
us informed me that Sir Charteris
had been asking for me, and wished me to
come to him in the study as soon as I had
taken my things off.

What was he going to say to me 1 Was
it anything about Herbert, or was it only
to ask me to read to him *?

I did not take long removing my hat,
&c., there was a bright glow upon my
cheeks, brought there by the fresh spring
air, and added to by excitement — I noticed

it as I stood before the glass to smooth my
hair. Then I ran down and knocked at
the study door.

In a moment Sir Charteris bade me
enter, and in another, my hand was clasped
in a warm, firm grasp. Two loving, tender,
true blue eyes were looking into mine from
a bronzed and bearded face, and I knew
that my lover was faithful.

My father s voice seemed to come to me
from a long, long way off, yet I heard his
every word.

Miriam, my dear. Colonel Armstrong
has asked me for your hand, and I have
consented to the engagement."

Ocean waves seemed to roar around my
head, and close me in, just as they had
done on that first day we met, when he
had saved my life ; and, once again, I
knew that those dear eyes were looking
lovingly into mine, that two strong arms

were about me ; and I felt, too, that they
would shelter me from henceforth from all
such trouble as it could be in human power
to shield me from.

*' At last, at last, my darling," he murmured,
as he took me home to his heart,
and our lips sealed love's compact.

Herbert had not yet seen his parents
when he came to me at Greenholm, so we
sent him oft* the very next day.

The time for our marriage was fixed.
We had waited so long already that we
were to wait only one short month more.
I need not say that I was happy, very
happy, as happy indeed as it is possible for
mortals to be. My Herbert's father and
mother accepted me lovingly as a daughter,
writing that it was what they had ever
wished since that day when their son had
brought me home to them.

As to a trousseau, and all the finery

which most girls think needful before they
can rnarry, I did not wish for any of it,
and, laughingly, I told my darling that if
he would have a wife, he must expect to
buy her clothes.

All I needed was a moderate stock of
linen. A black satin dress, a grey Carmelite,
and a plain white silk for my wedding-day,
and these Aunt Phyllis gave me.

That month soon passed.

May, with its bright spring flowers had
set in. The bells in that dear old church
upon the hill-side rang out gaily to tell of
a wedding, and that wedding was ours.
Herbert's and mine. It was a very quiet
one, though not so quiet as Aunt Phyllis's
had been.

Colonel and Mrs. Armstrong came all
the way up from Devonshire to be present :
Mr. and Mrs. Lyndhurst, from their Herefordshire
home ; Florence and her husband,

from Glen Avon. And Miss Caroline was
there, besides our own home circle.

Mr. Radcliffe married us, and many of
the poor were there, whose humble homes
I had visited ; and the school children
whom I had taught came to strew my
path with flowers ; and there among them
all appeared the white head of Colonel
Markham, who came with outstretched
hands to wish me well.

* #-rr jfr

We were to have a little time together,
my darling and I, and then we were to go
and stay with his father and mother ; therefore
I thought it wondrous strange that
they should not meet us at Kingsbridge
station upon our arrival there ; a thought
which I saw reflected in my husbands
face ; and still more I wondered when Miss
Caroline popped out from the waiting room
and caught me by both my hands.

A carriage and pair was awaiting us at
the station, but I saw again by my Herbert's
face that it was not his father's. He
made no objection, however, to accompanying
the dear, kind friend who had done so
much for us in overcoming the scruples of
Sir Charteris.

But when the long drive was nearly
over, and we found we had passed the
cross road which led to Colonel Armstrong's
house, we began not only to
wonder, but to express our surprise.

"■ My dear," said Miss Caroline, softly.
I told the coachman to .come this way, I
thought you would like a peep at your old
home."

My husband's hand sought mine in
sympathy.

I should indeed, but that it belongs to
strangers," I replied, huskily, "and who
knows how sadly it may be altered now."

It is not let now, at any rate, my dear,"
returned Miss Montague, "so I fancied
you would like to see it when you could."

That was thoughtful of you, and I will
go ; but oh ! Miss Caroline, I cannot tell
you how I love the old place. Every stone
of it is dear to me, and it will be a painful
pleasure to me to visit it again." And the
smile, mingled with emotion, upon that
dear old face was sympathetic indeed.

Picture my surprise, when the carriage
dashed up to the hall-door of my dear old
home, to find Sir Charteris standing upon
the entrance steps with outstretched hand
(the sinking sun glinting upon his uncovered
head, with its silver locks), the
second, alas ! lay useless in the black silk
sling. And behind him stood Colonel and
Mrs. Armstrong, Aunt Phyllis, her mother
and husband, Florence and Palpi, Grand-mamma
Costelion, and Trevelyan.

Welcome, my little Miriam, welcome to
your own home. It is my wedding-gift to
you and Herbert," cried my dear, dear old
friend, Miss Caroline, excitedly. " There is
only one reservation I make — that it shall
be Sir Charteris's home as honos as he lives."

I could not answer her by one word. A
great flood of gratitude filled my mind as I
threw myself into her arms.

And a cry rang up Heavenward from my
heart —

Oh Bob ! dear Bob, if only you were
here ! "

It was a wordless cry, and was that a
wordless answer ? A fresh sweet breeze
passed through the still evening air and
quivered among the trees. Did my brother s
spirit so speak to me "? or was I, as Trevelyan
called me, " morbid " ?

That night when Colonel Armstrong and
his wife left us I noticed how our dear old

VOL. III. T

Miss Caroline's hand lingered in this, how
tears trembled in the sweet old eyes.

It will make great confusion to have
two Colonel Armstrongss in the neighbourhoods'
remarked Lady Costehon, dryly.

Well, you see I am only a Lieutenant-colonel,"
laughed Herbert, " and we must
make the fact generally known.

And so we gaily turned to separate for
the night, and when I kissed my grandmother
she whispered,
" Thanks to you, child, my bones will lie
with those of my ancestors."

All my father said was, "God bless you,
Miriam ! " and I saw that his heart was too
fall for words.

When we assembled next morning for
breakfast Miss Caroline Montague was
absent, and as soon as prayers were over I
went up to her room to see if all was well
with her.

All was truly well, for the pure spirit had
passed away to a better land than ours.

Then there came to my mind that tender
hand clasp of the night before, and I knew
that it was her farewell to the one love of
her life.

Dear, sweet old friend !

We took her home and buried her with
her brothers and sisters, so that the seven
who had been so much to each other in life
should not be parted in death.

And when the will was read we found
that all the large property of the Montagues
had been left to Herbert and me, with only
one condition : we were from henceforth
to be called "Armstrong Montague Costelion,"
that the old names might not be
forgotten.

So that the difficulty as to the two
colonels was not one of long duration.
My husband left the service, and as

Colonel Costelion took his place in the
county. And in joy, greatly blended with
sorrow at our loss, we began a new life in
onr dear old home.

THE END.

Stevens AND KK.'HARDSOX, Printers, '), (Treat yVKEN .Street, W.C,

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


V. 2

^^ !lofae(.

BY

J. SALE LLOYD,

Author OF

'THE SILENT SHADOW," "RUTH EVERINC.HAM," "THE HAZELHWRST

MYSTERY," "ragamuffins," ETC., ETC.,

ASD EDITOR OF "SHADOWS OF THE PAST."

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IT.

LONDON:
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1882.

lA II rights reserved. J

Stevens & Richardson Printer, 5, GBKAT QUF.E^f STREET,

LrXCOLX's INN Fields, W.C.

CONTENTS.

VOL. 11.

Chat

her VIII.

IX.

X.

XL

xn.

Xii
XIV.

PAGE















Chapter Viii.

Poor Lady Lavinia ! it was with difficulty
we removed her to our new home. We
could never have done it without the aid
of our good doctor, Mr. Lyndhurst ; but
since he thought the change to higher
ground would be for her benefit, we felt it
was worth the trial, and even the increase
of suffering for the time being. When I
looked upon my stepmothers poor, pale,
fretful face, I could not help sighing: it
was sad to think that the carelessness of

VOL. II. B

the builder of our house should have
caused so much suffering ; that the apparently
small omission of an escape pipe
for the steam should have occasioned such
a melancholy accident.

True indeed is it that great endings
come from small beginnings.

"Broadest streams from narrowest sources,
Noblest trees from meanest seeds ;
Mighty ends from small beginnings,
From lowly promise lofty deeds.

Acorns wliicli the winds have scattered,
Future navies may provide ;
Thoughts at midnight whispered lowly,
Prove a people's future guide."

These were the words that occurred tome
as I pondered over why such things
should be, — it was like the old story of
the nail.

For want of a nail the shoe was lost,
For want of a shoe the horse was lost.
For want of a horse the king was lost,
For want of a ruler the kingdom was lost."

And for want of a small pipe for the
steam to escape by, my father's wife was
lost ; for although she was still with usher
days were days of suffering, and we
all knew that death was not far off.

In such seasons the visits of the doctor
are eagerly looked for, and nothing could
have exceeded the kindness and attention
of ours ; indeed, there was something restful
in the presence of Mr. Lyndhurst ; one
felt that he was reliable and strong — a
man to be trusted, and who was willing
to spend and be spent for his friends and
his patients.

Neither very young nor very old was

our doctor — neither plain nor handsome.

His brow was broad and square ; his brown

hair sprinkled here and there with a

line of silver, and close cropped ; so were

the small dark whiskers which grew high

on his cheeks ; no moustache covered his

B 2

lip, nor hid the sweet, firm mouth, which
became compressed and sad at the sight of
suffering ; the chin was square and powerful,
and so were the strong white teeth,
which were never too much shown. Mr.
Lyndhurst might have been thirty-five —
certainly not more, possibly less, though
there was no look of youth about him.
The grave, quiet face appeared to be that
of one who had passed through the furnaces
of affliction, and used them as cleansing
fires.

I was generally Lady Lavinia's attendant,
and so saw a good deal of Mr. Lynd-
hurst, and a true friendship sprang up
between us. As for my sister, she took
but little notice of him at first ; whereas,
on the contrary, he seemed attracted by
her beauty.

Then she amused herself by playing him
off against her friend the vicar, and her

two admirers were rather like buckets in a
well — one or other was always on the
surface ; and it became evident that my
sister numbered the art of flirting: amonof
her accomplishments.

Perhaps Mr. Lyndhurst noticed this too,
for gradually her beauty seemed to have
lost its charm for Lin, and the look of
interest with which he at first regarded
her died out of his eyes, or was exchanged
for one of regret.

Upon one of these occasions he turned
to me with a pained expression of
face.

Women surely forget how much they
have in their power. Miss Costelion?"

"Referring to what, Mr. Lyndhurst 1" I
replied, with a smile.

'• To their power of making happiness
and sorrow," he returned, gravely. "Now,
your sister, for instance : she seems to

take small heed, whether her words and
actions give pain or no."

*' Florence is young and heedless, no
doubt," I answered, with some warmth ;
but she is not heartless, I am sure ; she
has always been everyone's pet ; if she is a
little spoilt it is no great wonder."

By some mischance the subject of this
conversation overheard our remarks.

That afternoon we were all engaged to
go to the Manor House for lawn tennis.
It was a warm May, and the bright
spring days had tempted even our quiet
old neighbours into mild dissipation ; but I
am afraid it was chiefly their desire to give
us some amusement which made them
strike out in this unusual manner.

Our new home lay within three miles of
their residence, and they had expressed
many hopes that we should now see much
more of one another.

It was our first amusement since we had
left Kingsholme, except for my sister's
skating expeditions, which she had not
cared to continue under chaperonage ; and
after the sad accident which had so seriously
injured our stepmother, I do not
think she ever went once to the ice.

At the Montagues we met many good
families living within a radius of some
twelve miles, and found them a very different
class of people to those who inhabited
Devonshire Terrace, and the other
lath, plaister, and stucco villas about Little
Newington.

As we were sitting under a spreading
tree, demolishing ices, my sister, looking
her prettiest, turned to me with a sigh of
relief 'this is more like old times,
Miriam," she said, softly, the warm colour
mantling her cheeks ; " whenever I think
of Devonshire Terrace, I feel inclined to

Avell, never mind what, but ' Willow-lands
' is better ; not that it is a patch on
our dear old Abbey. I hope all these nice
people will come and call on us. Only
fancy those common creatures having dared
to do so, and our being obliged to return
their visits."

"It seemed to amuse you," I replied.

"Oh! yes, it amused me; anything would
have done that, then — but, thank goodness,
we never accepted any of their invitations
to ' ham sandwiches and sherry
wine,' 'slops and pictures,' or the like."

"I think you would have done that atone
time," I returned, with a smile; "and
I have a faint remembrance of your
wanting to borrow a pony trap of the
Eiders."

Don't, Miriam ; don't remind me of
those days of darkness," she pleaded.

"Flo, dear, I am truly thankful if you

are happier now. See ! here is Mr. Rad-differ
cording."

"Oh! bother!" exclaims my sister. 'beseems
to be a part of the old Devonshire
Terrace life ; I want now to be introduced
to all these new people."

''Oh! Flo! Flo!" I murmur.

"Variable as the shade,
By the light quivering aspen made !"

And our vicar is standing before us, with
marked pleasure in his patient eyes.

Miss Florence," he says, in a low voice,
"you will come and play a game of lawn
tennis with. me. Ism afraid I'm not a good
player ; but you won't refuse me, I am
sure."

Is there not a text to the effect that
he is the happiest who expects nothing?"
said my sister, her blue eyes full of mischief


No, no, not that I have ever met with.

Miss Florence' he answered, confusedly;
sphere is some such saying however, I
believe ; but I do not see it's application
to the present case''

'' Perhaps it will become plainer to you
when I tell you that I am not inclined for
lawn tennis this afternoon : but here is
good-natured Miriam — she always does
what she is asked — she will play with you,
and I shall be able to enjoy the dolce far
niente."

It was not flattering to note how his
face fell ; but I could not be cruel enough
to visit it upon him ; and when he offered
himself hesitatingly as my partner, I roseat
once, thinking it better to get him away
from my sister in her present mood ; for
although his weak admiration of her had
lowered him somewhat in my opinion, I
yet believed him to be a good man and a
kind, and I was sorry to see his feelings hurt.

Was it possible. I asked myself, as we
walked side by side over to the nets, that
lie could really have believed that my
sister intended anything but a flirtation
with him ? if so, surely he had never looked
at himself in a glass, or, at any rate, in a
cheval glass. Had he once seen the knees
of his trousers as others saw them, and the
large, coarsely clad feet, he could never
have imagined even for a moment that he
was a fitting mate for our beautiful spoilt
child, or that she thought him so.

Mr. Lyndhurst's voice roused me from
my reverie. " How serious you look. Miss
Costehon. Have you been quarrelling with
the vicar?"

Oh ! no !" I answered, with a smile.
"I don't think we have even spoken yet ;
but we are going to play lawn tennis ; " and
I look up at him brightly, to show that
there is nothing whatever the matter.

*' That is right — but I see you have left
your sister alone ; shall I go and take care
of her for you until your game is over."

Do ; that would be good of you, Mr.
Lyndhurst/' I reply, and walk on with the
vicar. He certainly was right in saying he
was not a good player, or at any rate he
was decidedly not upon the present occasion,
but his preoccupied manner showed that he
was not taking much interest in the game,
and when it was over, he did not suofo^est
another, and instinctively we both turned
towards the garden seat where we had left
my sister ; but only Mr. Lyndhurst Alas t(j
be seen, sitting with his feet apart, and
with some irritation prodding little holes in
the mossy turf with the stick which he invariably
carried.

Why, where is Florence ? " I ask in
words, while the vicar's eyes alone question
him.

Can't say, I'm sure ; considering the
pace at which stir started off at sight of me,
she might well be some miles away " — and
he raised a half amused, half vexed face.

But where was she going ? " I demand.

Miss Costelion, I am not in her confidence."


*how very odd! but surely you spoke
to her."

Oh yes ! I spoke to her."

And what did she reply '? "

*well! it would be difficult to say. She
must, I think, have given me an inverted
blessing in an unknown tongue, judging
from the expression of her face."

^'Do be serious, and tell me all you know.
[Florence is very impetuous, and you must
have offended her."

Yes ! that is it," murmured the vicar,
you must have said something to annoy
her."

Impossible," returned the doctor, " I
merely came up and said, ' Miss Florence,
your sister and Mr. Radcliffe have sent me
to bear you company till their game is over '
and she sprang up, and throwing a few
words at me — bolted'

And you did not follow her ? " asks the
vicar.

"Most certainly not" — he returns.

'' Tell me what she said, Mr. Lyndhurst,"
I beg, laughing.

'' I am afraid I cannot, Miss Costelion,"
he answered, laughing too ; " all I know is,
she bit my nose off so sharply that I keep
on feeling to see if any is left."

"Well! there is no ocular demonstration
of the catastrophe, fortunately for you," I
exclaim, with much amusement ; " and now
I suppose I must go and look for my
sister."

'' May I accompany you ? " asks Mr.

Radcliffe, but I deny him his request, not
knowing in what humour I may find her.

Great, therefore, is my surprise, when at
length I see her in a retired part of the
garden playing at bowls with a perfect
stranger, and that stranger a peculiarly
handsome young man.

It was evident that no remonstrance
could be entered upon then, and with some
pride my sister introduced me to Sir Gordon
Graham, and I found that his father owned
a large estate some miles away, and that
this gallant young spark was an officer
home on leave from India.

When the introduction was over, Florence
turned to him with one of her graceful
gestures, her pretty face upraised to his :
This is the sister for whom you mistook
me, Sir Gordon ; we are not much alike, are
we 1 " and as his eyes wandered from her
fair countenance to mine, which was anything

but fair, there was a look in them
which said he quite agreed with her that
there was not much likeness between us, but
nevertheless he turned to me courteously.

I have heard a good deal of you from
two great friends," he said.

'indeed," I answered, surprised.

Yes ! my dear old sweetheart. Miss
Caroline, does nothing but sing your praises
what a charming old lady she is. If she
were only fifty years younger now, or I fifty
years older, I should not remain single for a
day."

*' Yes, she is a sweet woman," I reply ;
*' no one could help being fond of her."

But suppose she would not have you ? "
asked Florence, with a mischievous look.

*' Do you imagine such a thing possible ? "
he queries, returning her glance ; 'but does
not Miss Costelion wish to know who her
other friend and admirer is ? He is a good

many miles off, but I hope you have not
forgotten him, as we are brother officers."

I only knew one whom it could be, and
the tell tale colour sprang up into my cheeks.

"Ah! Miss Costelion, I see you still
remember ; and a noble fellow Armstrong
is. We have had the luck to have a little
fun together, in a few skirmishes on the
frontiers, and he always manages to do
something dashing. Then, there is no one
like him after game, both great and small.
Herbert is one of the best fellows all round
T ever met in my life, and truly I believe
he is the only man in India of whom no one
can tell tales as to the fair sex ; yet somehow
women like him, although he never
flirts. Every one thinks he must have left
his heart in England ; " and he looks at me
so keenly that I cannot keep down my
blushes, but I raise my eyes fearlessly to
his.

VOL. II. C

Yes ! Mr. Armstrong and I used to be
great friends — he saved my life — perhaps
he may have told yon about it ; but that
was many years ago, when I was a girl."

What are you now, Miss Costelion \ ''
he asked, with a sunny laugh ; " but you do
not do our friend justice when you imagine
he would speak of any act of bravery
of his own. I never knew that he had
rescued you, until Miss Caroline told me
yesterday — then I no longer wondered
that " — here he paused, and seemed unable
to proceed with his remark.

That we were friends," I said, quietly.

Well, yes ! and I suppose no man could
be altogether indifferent to any human
being for whom he has risked his life ; and,
when it happens to be a lady, it must be a
very pleasant sort of sensation, I should
say.

'you had better get some one to jump

into the water for your benefit, Sir Gordon'
remarks my sister, saucily, '^ and then you
can be sure it is the right person."

"That is not half a bad idea, Miss Florence
Costelion, but here is Miss Caroline coming
to look for us. What ! you do not want
we Miss Montague ? well, now, that is unkind,
for I always want you — but 1 do not
wonder that you should prefer Miss Costelion's
society, at the same time it is selfish
of you to carry her away, though I hope
that this will not be our last meeting, for I
suppose I may be permitted to call at
Willowlands."

'papa will be pleased to see you," I
murmured, "but he is seldom at home,
except on Saturdays''

Very well," he returned, with his

pleasant smile, " I will pay my respects to

him on that day, and to you earlier in the

week."

c 2

And Miss Caroline drew me away.

miriam, dear," she whispered. " I have
a letter to show you ; come in doors with
me ; " and she led me to her own little
sanctum, and gave me a long Indian budget
to peruse. I need hardly say who it was
from. It was a pleasant, chatty letter,
written with evident affection for the
person to whom it was addressed ; but
there were a few lines only which
enchained my attention, and they ran
thus : —

I cannot tell you, clear Miss Caroline, how glad I
am that you have become acquainted with my ideal,
and it was indeed good of you to whisper that I am
remembered. I am getting on, and when I see my
sway clear, I shall come home, if I can ; and, if not,
I shall risk all, and write."

My pulses beat wildly. Who was Herbert
Armstrong's ideal ?

We had been friends — dear friends — but

surely such happiness was not for me. I
raised my eyes to Miss Caroline's, and she
came and kissed me, fondly.

*' You have won a noble heart, Miriam,"
she whispered, in her low, sweet voice,
which had a touch of sadness in it. "I
need not ask you to value it."

No ! indeed, there was no need to say
that ; a great gladness pervaded my whole
being. The sky was to me bright, for all
that there were dark clouds arising. I
seemed to be walking upon air as we wandered
back, arm in arm, into the garden,
Miss Caroline and I. Ah ! I knew at last
how I loved him ; those words of his had
opened my eyes, perhaps I had closed them
wilfully ; but I knew the truth now, and I
felt no shame, for had not Miss Caroline
told me that his love was mine.

We talked much of him, wandering
under those dear old trees that afternoon,

and I was very happy. Tien the clouds
became too visible to be put aside, large
rain drops began to fall, and there was a
general rush for the house.

Miriam' said my father, as we walked
homewards, for he had put in an appearance
at the party on his return from
London. *^ Miriam, you must draw up an
advertisement for a pony. I cannot get
Shamrock back ; he has been sold, and
Giles refuses to say to whom. So that
little dream of ours is over."

What a shame ! " cried Florence, her
beautiful eyes flashing with anger. '^ Only
a few years ago he would not have dared
to refuse you anything ; times are indeed
changed. Why the man is only a common
creature. A little twopenny half-penny
farmer ! "

'* Yes, no doubt times are changed," returned
my father, sadly ; " but in this case.

I suppose, I have no cause to complain. I
sold the pony to Giles, and he had the
right to dispose of it again to whom he
chose, without my permission."

Yes ! but the discourtesy of declining
to say to whom he had sold him."

Discourtesy ! yes ; but that one should
not mind from such a person. You cannot
expect politeness from farmer Giles.
One might as well attempt to make a
silken purse out of a sow's ear, and that
would be no easy task, I am sure."

I am very sorry," I said, regretfully ;
'* but I think the less we talk of our disappointment
the better. If there happens to
be a skeleton in our cupboard it is best not
to look at it, let us lock it up. We are
each and all disappointed, and I fear we
shall never care for another pony as we did
for Shamrock ; but since we cannot have
him, we must get the best we can afford.

What are you going to pay for a pony,
papa 1 "

** Twenty, or twenty-five pounds. I cannot
manage more''

Very well ; I will advertise tomorrow ;
we must write over to Newingtou. I suppose
the local paper will do."

Yes ! there must be plenty of animals
in the county, and the sooner we get one
the better. And now, my dear, who is Sir
Gordon Graham ? He tells me you have
given him permission to call at Willow-lands'


'' Well, I could not refuse it when he
said he was coming, could I, papa ? As to
who he is, I only know that he is an officer,
and that his father has an estate somewhere
in the neighbourhood ; " but for the
life of me, I could not screw up my courage
to mention that he and Herbert Armstrong
were friends.

Florence cast a half-amused, mischievous
glance at me ; but she said nothing.

"There was no need to refuse," replied
Sir Charteris, with satisfaction, "these are
the sort of people with whom you should
visit ; but (turning to Florence) don't let
Sir Gordon flirt with you. You are a
pretty girl, and can marry whom you like,
if only you do not take to flirting ; and, I
may as well tell you, now that we are upon
the subject, that I have thought your manners
altogether too free and easy of late,
and it makes me uncomfortable. It seems
to me there is no one to guide or influence
you. Miriam is too young, I suppose, your
mother too much of an invalid ; your grandmother
used to be a strong-minded woman,
but she is in her dotage, poor soul ; and as
for Lady Trevelyan, I don't suppose she
ever had any sense to lose. She is simply
puerile. I only wish I could get such a

person as Phyllis Armatage to advise you.
She was a woman in a thousand ! "

*' And pray who is this paragon, papa ? "

Why, Armatage was the name of your
first wife, was it not ? " said my sister.

Yes ; Phyllis is Miriam's aunt, "and 1 am
sorry I have for so many years lost sight of
her. She was but a girl when I saw her
last ; but I have heard a great deal about
her from time to time ; and she must indeed
be a good, unselfish woman."

'* Why did you not keep up her acquaintance,
father ? " I ask, a great yearning
coming upon me to know my mother's
sister.

For a moment he remained silent ; then
he answered me.

'' The truth is best, Miriam ; the Arma-takes
were not in our set, nor in our former
position in life. Nevertheless, they were
honest, kindly people, and as such I respected

them ; but I could not ask them to
my house, or introduce them to my
friends."

"Yet you quarried one of them' I
return, resentfully.

'' That was scarcely the remark for you
to make, Miriam," said my father, gravely ;
but be good enough to understand that I
raised my wife to my position by marrying
her, and as such, whatever her birth, she
became one of ourselves, with her proper
place in society assigned to her."

I was silenced, but I walked homewards
with a very sore feeling at my heart. My
bright sky had soon become overcast, and
raindrops — that is, tears of mortification —
flowed slowly down my cheeks, unnoticed
by my father and sister, and I was glad to
steal away to my own room as soon as possible
— that being a small dressing-room out
of Lady Lavinia's chamber, which had been

assigned to me to enable me the better to
perform my duties of nurse, as upon those
nights when the invalid could sleep and did
not need me I could rest there with the
door open, and yet be ready to go to her at
the sound of the little bell which was kept
by her bedside.

It had been an unusually exciting day
for me. After the monotony of Devonshire
Terrace it seemed quite dissipation to go
even to an afternoon party. Then there
had been that great wave of joy which had
flooded my life and made it for awhile so
bright ; but it appeared that, like the proverbial
dog, having tasted the roast-beef, I
had to be basted with the spit, for I had
greatly taken my father's words to heart.
Still, not even my love for my mother, and
my indignation that those dear to her had
been shut out of her life, could quench the
gladness within me. His ideal ! I — plain

Miriam — with relations who my father
would not acknowledge ; I was the ideal of
the noblest man upon God's earth — and
how could I be altogether unhappy ?

CHAPTER IX.

I HAVE not spoken of my literary endeavours
since iJie morning when I had dropped my
first story into the letter-box, some six
months before, because I had nothing satisfactory
to tell. I found it difficult to obtain
an answer to my letter, or a verdict upon
my work ; but at length both came.

The editor to whom I had first applied
regretted that among the crowd of matter
in his hands my MS. had been overlooked ;
he begged to thank me for the offer, but
had no space, having accepted tales for the
next two years. I was disappointed, but

the reply was courteous, so I determined to
try again, and forwarded my story to another
magazine.

The second editor was sorry it was not
suited to his pages, and informed me, on
the receipt of stamps for the postage, the
MS. would be returned. Of course I enclosed
the stamps, and it came back — only
to be sent out again ; but, like the raven
despatched from the ark, it never came
back to me, and I found that that especial
journal announces that " no MSS. are returned
;" so, having kept a rough, I set to
work to recopy it, decidedly disheartened,
but not even yet quite hopeless. Moreover,
I had not been idle in the interim, and a
poem and a tale for children were now
finished, and all I wanted was advice as to
whom to send them ; but I was shy of
talking of my work, so I determined once
more to try my luck, and on the morning

after the party at the Montagues' I despatched
all three, and felt a sort of relief
that, whatever theh^ fate, they were really
off my hands at last.

As I returned from the post-office I met
Mr. Lyndhurst, who greeted me cheerily.

'* Well, Miss Miriam, and where are you
bound this bright day at such a brisk
pace ?"

''I am on my way home, and I am
walking fast because I did not mention
that I was going out, and I may be
wanted."

'' That I can readily believe," he said,
kindly ; *' but don't you think it would
have been wiser to give notice of your proposed
absence, for you will overheat yourself,
and very likely take a chill."

"Well, Mr. Lyndhurst, the fact is, I
wanted to carry something to the post
unseen'

For a moment the grave, pleasant face
^vore a puzzled look, then the doctor's
eyes sought mine, and I perceived that
my words had not been wise ones ; so,
liking Mr. Lyndhurst, I hastened to
explain.

You need not look so shocked," I
laughed. *' It was not a love-letter, I can
assure you ; only some manuscripts which
I have a desire to dispose of, but which no
one seems particularly anxious to take from
me. There I now you have my secret, and
I know you will keep it. Perhaps you
wonder why I make a mystery of the matter
; the truth is, that want of success is
galling enough in itself, but it becomes still
more unpleasant if your elders say, ' I told
you so !' and you have two torments of
brothers who bring up the subject whenever
they think it will most ' rile ' you, as they
call it. No, Mr. Lyndhurst, unless I sue-vol.

II. D

need, I shall not tell any one what I am
doing."

"Indeed, I wish you good luck, Miss
Miriam,'^ he returned, heartily. " I respect
and admire a woman who strives to make a
place for herself in the world. Too many
live for their own pleasure alone, and bring
nothing but sorrow on those around them.
It makes a man wonder sometimes whether
the fair sex are blessed with minds to seethe
lives they lead ; love of dress and admiration
seem to be the prominent features
of their daily existence."

You are hard on women, Mr. Lynd-
hurst," I said, quietly ; " it is not the first
time I have noticed it, and it is the worst
thing I know of you. There is a want of
chivalry about it — a want of kindness that
I should never have expected from you.
Pardon me for saying so, but I think you
should ride this hobby horse of yours upon

the curb, — you let it run away with you.
Why, do you know, you have been almost
rough to my sister Florence at times, lately.
Why is it ?^'

Miss Costelion," he said, gravely, as he
paced along by my side, '* I am tempted to
take you into my confidence, and that is
more than I have ever done to any human
being before ; but I value your good opinion,
and should be sorry to lose it. You
are right ; I feel bitter against women. A
woman spoilt the happiness of my life.
Even now, after a lapse of ten years, I
cannot talk of it calmly. I do not wish to
be tedious, but will merely give you an outline
of the facts.

I had no intention of being a doctor ;

my line of life was already before me, as it

seemed. My parents died young, but my

uncle had made me his heir, and T was to

take his name at his death, and inherit his

D 2

beautiful estate. From boyhood I bad been
brought up in his house, as though I had
been his own son. He sent me to college,
and when I returned from my first vacation
I found an addition to his family circle.
He had adopted the daughter of an old
friend. Laura Kilburn was a beautiful girl :
it would, however, be hard to describe her,
so greatly was she indebted to her bewitching
manners. She had already fascinated
my uncle, and I was her next victim. Indeed,
I believe Miss Kilburn existed only
to make conquests. She took a childish
delight in the pastime of heart-breaking,
and added to her list of captives upon all
occasions.

'^ One day my uncle called me into his
study, and told me it was his wish that
I should marry Laura, and I certainly
made no objection to the arrangement, for
I loved the girl with all my heart. She

accepted me, and then my trouble began.
Perhaps I was jealous ; love often makes
men so — love without perfect trust always.
The whole object in life of my fiancee
seemed to be to torment me. One day
kind, the next cruel — sometimes devoted
to me, but at others quite as much devoted
to any comparative stranger who came
across her path. At length I told her
that that state of things could not go on ;
she drove me well nigh to madness. She
coolly replied that she was glad I had
come to this conclusion, as she had not
known a happy hour since we had been
engaged. This happened as I was leaving
home for college, and I started in a state
I cannot describe to you. My uncle was
out, and, had I wished it, I had no opportunity
of telling him what had happened.

Great was my astonishment and disappointment
the very next day to receive a

letter from him, disinheriting me for disobedience
to his wishes. He sent me a
cheque for £5000, and informed me of two
facts — that 'he had done with me and
that ' he had made up his mind to marry
Laura himself "

And did he ? " I gasped.

** I know no more about it than you do,
Miss Miriam. I sent back the cheque, and
begged to be told the reason of this sudden
change towards me, but the letter was
returned, not having been taken in by my
uncle. Then I left college and went to
America, where I became a doctor, and
only returned to England a year and a half
since, when I bought the practice here."

'' With your uncle's money 1 " I asked.

Certainly not. I tore up the cheque,
and that was the end of it ; but I had done
well in my profession, which had enabled
me to save something."

I am glad of that' I said, smiling up
at him ; " and you don't know what became
of jour uncle, nor of her f "

I do not. I have made no inquiries,
and I shall make none. I have, in a
measure, outlived it all, and I shall never
put myself in the power of such a woman
again, if I can help it. So now you know
why I cannot bear to see your pretty sister
flirt, and why I am bitter against your sex ;
but while I am confessing, I must acknowledge
one thing more, which is, that you
have in a great measure re-established my
opinion of what womanhood may be — kind,
gentle, affectionate, unselfish, and thoughtful
for others, and I am not the only
person who thinks you so, Miss Miriam.
Miss Caroline Montague will say all this,
and more, of you, I am sure ; and the man
who can count you as his friend may consider
himself fortunate. ''

Your opinion of me is better than I
deserve, Mr. Lyndhurst/' I returned, my
cheeks glowing with such praise; " but since
you think my friendship worth the having,
pray let it be yours always, and I must
claim yours in return. Is that a bargain ? '^

'' I shall be only too glad to make it
one," he laughed. 'rand now, as your
friend, I wonder if I can help you with
your literary productions."

I should be most thankful if you could,"
I answered; ''I fear I shall find it very
uphill work''

I am afraid you will ; I know many
authors who have given up in despair, but
I do not think you would be so fainthearted
as that, Miss Miriam''

Perhaps not," I answer, reflectively.
*' I fancy I am rather dogged."

That is not a pretty term to apply to
firmness," laughed Mr. Lyndhurst.

'' Do you know' I reply, " it seems tome
a most difficult thing to tell where
firmness ends and obstinacy begins, or
vice verse. We call ourselves firm, and
our friends consider us obstinate'

I think firmness is standing to a thing
which is right, obstinacy to one which is
wrong, and felt by us to be so, although
not acknowledged ; at least, that is my
definition of the difference. But I am
quite sorry to see the gate of Willow-lands,
for I have much enjoyed my walk,
and I am ashamed to think that I have not
asked after Lady Lavinia/'

No doubt you know that there is little
likelihood of any improved news of her,
poor soul. She is always the same ; always
suffering, always impatient, always fretful.
I do my best to please her, but I suppose I
am not a good nurse ; nothing is ever right.
Sometimes I think she would be better

if she were waited upon by a stranger;
but I am glad to do all I can for her, poor
woman'

'' It is weary work for you, Miss Miriam'
he said, pitifully, " and I fear your health
is slowly giving way under the strain.
You do not look so well as you did. We
must nob ride a willing horse to death."

We had turned in at the gate, and were
walking up the drive, when all at once I
noticed a black pony standing at the hall
door.

Why, it is Shamrock ! " I cry, excitedly,
and in another moment I am running as
fast as my legs can carry me to greet my
old friend.

*' And papa said he could not get him
back," I say, mentally, as I reach the pretty
pony, and take the soft nose in both my
hands and kiss it fondly.

"■ You are as much like velvet as ever,

my darling," I murmur, as Shamrock returns
my caress, as well as a horse knows
how to do, and it pleases me to see that I
am not forgotten. '' Where have you
brought him from ? " I ask the railway
porter, who holds his head.

From the station, Miss."

** But where has he come from ? Who
sent him '\ "

That I can't say. Miss ; he came from
London, and was to be brought to this
address," and he pointed to a large, plainly
printed card sewn upon Shamrock's cloth,
which ran thus —

Miss Miriam Costelion,
'' Willowlands,

Little Newington."

So, Shamrock was mine ! Some one
had sent him to me. But who could have
done so ? Who could even know that I

wanted him ? The problem was too deep
for me to solve, so I gave it up, and called
all of the household who were at home, to
come and see their old friend. Even
Florence showed genuine pleasure at the
sight of dear old Shamrock. We had no
groom, not even a boy, on the premises, so
Bob and Trevelyan came to the stables and
made him a nice, thick bed of straw, and I
ran up into the loft and brought him down
some oats, and just as we were in the
midst of it all, and Mr. Lyndhurst, with
his coat off, was helping to wash the pony's
feet, who should ride into the stable-yard
but Sir Gordon Graham.

*' I beg your pardon," he began ; *' I
came to look for some one to hold my horse''

Yessir," said Florence, touching her
golden hair, " I'll hold your horse by all
means," and she lifted her laughter-loving
eyes to his.

*' We have no groom at present, you
see," I explained; "this pony has just
arrived unexpectedly, but as he is an old
friend, he is very welcome. We had him
in Devonshire, and we should never have
liked another so well. There is a loosebox,
however, at your service, if you can turn
your horse in there ; but I shall have to
ask you to excuse me for a few minutes, as
I must go up to my stepmother with Mr.
Lyndhurst."

I could not help myself, although I felt
that my father would have wished me to
remain with Florence ; but surely Bob
could play propriety, and, after all, if she
meant to flirt, I knew perfectly that no one
could stop her.

Sir Charteris was very much puzzled to
knows who had sent Shamrock back to us,
and so great was his pride that I verily
believe if he could have found out, our

little pet would have been returned ; but
there was no clue whatever to the mystery,
a fact for which I felt very thankful, for
it seemed quite homelike to have dear old
Shamrock whinnying a welcome whenever
he heard my footstep. How pleased I was
to have him back, and how proud of him
as my own property !

Had papa been at home I doubt if he
would have allowed it, but he wasn't, so^I
got Tre to lead him, while I walked by the
side, to make the acquaintance of my dear
Miss Caroline.

Of course she admired him very much,
but somehow there was so little surprise in
her dear old face that I at once accused her
of being the donor, but she assured me I
was wrong, and smiled at my wondering.

We could do pretty much as we liked at
Little Newington, for although not far from
London and near the town of Newington,

it was still in the country, and very thinly
populated, and we seldom met anyone in
our rambles.

My father had written to Farmer Giles
to ask if he knew where Shamrock had
come from, and he had replied that he
had sold him and had not seen him
since ; he had made enquiries whether
the gentleman who bought him would
sell him again, according to the wish of
Sir Charteris, but had been told he would
not at any price ; he supposed he had
altered his mind. That was all, and it
was evident that no further information
could be got out of the farmer. My father
was angry, but that did not mend the
matter, and dear old Shamrock remained
with us — Bob and Tre taking charge of
him.

Soon a little carriage arrived which Sir
Charteris had bought somewhere, and I

was desired to advertise for a bos, or very
young man, to look after it. I had a great
deal of responsibility thrown upon my
shoulders at Willowlands, and had little
leisure. What with nursing and housekeeping
it was not often that I could
snatch an hour to write, but on the following
Saturday the Kensington News contained
this paragraph —

Wanted. — A strong, steady lad to take
care of a pony and carriage, and to make
himself generally useful. Apply at Willow-lands,
Little Newington."

The Newington News must indeed have
a wonderful circulation to judge by the
number of applicants who turned up on
that Saturday morning, and kept flowing
in all through the day, and, indeed, in
driblets up to the end of the next week,
when the advertisement columns brought
fresh excitement for them.

My whole day was taken up interviewing
them. I determined to pick out the
most likely, and let my father decide for
himself. Evidently the boys' ideas of *^a
strong lad" did not agree with mine, for
little midges of children offered themselves
with grave faces, and on the other hand
men of thirty and forty. All were anxious
to come, all were willing to undertake the
work, and all gave themselves excellent
characters, whatever their former masters
might have done. There was one farmers
looking lad in a red necktie and canvas
smock, with a face as round and as rosy as
an apple, who grinned the whole time,
showing a complete set of powerful white
grinders, and looked as honest as the day.
I could imagine him munching a turnip, or
even a mangel-wurzel, but I could not
fancy him in the carriage behind Sir
Charteris dressed in livery ! He sat with

VOL. II. E

this corduroy clad legs apart, and hands
planted on his knees, with elbows out-turned.
He informed me he had lived
some time with Farmer Blow, but wished
to "better himself." I enquired whether
he could drive, and his face beamed allover.


I did ought to, Miss," he replied, with
conscious pride, "I have drum a four-wheeled
waggon !"

It did not strike me that that would
help him much with our dear skittish little
Shamrock, but I tried again. " You would
be required to wait at table sometimes," I
remarked, " that I suppose you have never
been accustomed to do."
*^NoaI but I could larn."
Well, now, tell me the truth, have you
been used to stable work?"

'not exactly, Miss. Farmer Blow
mostly littered 'em down; but I have

helped, and" (this very brightly) ^'I were
along o' sheep for two year ! "

Poor boy, I was sorry to disappoint him ;
and his round face became quite long when I
told him he wouldn't do, and tears seemed
not far off as he said, "his mother was
a widow, and he did so want to help her'

But what could I do ? I felt quite
grieved for him, but I couldn't ask Sir
Charteris to look at him. If I were to do
so the result would be the same — disappointment
!

So I told him as gently as I could that
he was not fitted for a gentleman's service.

Noa ! and never shan't, if so be no one

won't try me. Miss ! " he said, sorrowfully,

*rand mother will be awful upset," and he

went his way with a changed aspect, and I

felt myself a complete wretch !

The second aspirant was a young man of

one or two and twenty — tall and good

E 2

looking. His eyes and nose, however, had
a sly expression, which did not altogether
please me ; he wore a moustache, and
seemed very well satisfied with himself, but
as I found his only qualification for the
situation consisted in his having Town the
organ at the church for the last ^yq years,
I declined his services, with thanks, at once,
and did not feel half so sorry as for my
apple-checked friend.

Number three was a tall, slim, half-starved
looking lad of seventeen, and once
more my sympathies were enlisted; one of
a hungry family of eight, I found. He was
painfully anxious to come, but he had never
been in service, and had had no better employment
than running errands.

The only recommendation he had to offer
was that he had been in the church choir
at Newington for eight years ; and he
thought he could manage the work.

I felt more hard hearted than ever, but
it was useless to raise his hopes, for my
father was a man who required everything
done for him to be done well, and I was
certain this poor boy would not succeed in
pleasing him.

Then arrived a red-headed young fellow,
with a turnip-like complexion and a turned
up nose ; that, of course, he could not help,
but he could the grease with which his
hair was besmeared, which it made me
feel quite sick to look at, so I told him at
once that he would not do for the place,
and rang the bell for the maid to show
him out, and as she did so she admitted
a fair lad, and the two glared at each other
like two dogs over a bone, who have a
good mind to fight for it.

After these came a dark, rather handsome
lad, dressed like a little groom, and well
dressed too. He had bold, dark eyes, with

which he looked me full in the face, and
answered my questions in a free fashion.
He thoroughly understood his work, he
said, and was sure he could give satisfaction,
and that the place would suit him.

We went into all the ins and outs of
what his duties would be, and he seemed a
very likely young fellow indeed.

Of course you can obtain a character
from your last place," I ended, and was
about to make an appointment with him to
see my father, when the lad answered,

'* Oh ! as to that, I had few words with
my late master, so I could not ask him for a
character !"

swells'' I replied, 'that settles the
matter, for Sir Charteris would not think
of taking any one into his house whose
testimonials were not of the very best,"
and much against his will I dismissed him,
and somewhat to my own regret too, for

the boy seemed to have his wits about
him.

A young man of about nineteen or
twenty was next announced. He was
decidedly plain, but looked intelligent,
though he had very projecting ears, which
were rather disfiguring, but his powers of
talking were wonderful. From his own
account of himself there was nothing he
could not do. He desired greatly to be
our servant ; he had seen us all, and should
like to serve us ; he had admired Shamrock,
and should wish to be his groom.
His testimonials were good ; he had them
in his pocket, and he could refer us to the
last place in which he had served, and was
certain his late employers would speak well
of him. He had been an indoor servant,
as page ; he had been an under gardener ;
he had had the entire charge of a carriage
and pair ; he was a churchman, and very

much preferred the church, but was willing
to go to chapel if Sir Charteris pleased, but
he wished the opportunity of going to some
place of worship once every Sunday ; he
never made friends ; his heart was in his
work ; his great wish was always to do his
duty, and to please his employers.

To my mind this young man was somewhat
too specious, but I could find no fault
in him, and I desired him to call and see
my father in the evening. Then there was
a lull, and luncheon was announced, and
we sat down to it ; and on looking out
soon after we saw from the doing-room
window two boys running a race, each
straining every sinew and muscle to reach
the house first ; they arrived at the door
together. One was a small boy, but stout
and sharp. We were amused at the scene;
the window was open, and we could hear
all that passed ; the sharp boy pushed

forward, and, before the other could speak,
asked to 'see the gentleman." The maid
replied that " Miss Costelion would see one
of them presently, but that they could not
both go in at once."

That promise given, the sharp boy sprang
inside the door, almost knocking down the
other, who Vas half as big again as himself,
and far older, and got in first.

When I went to interview him he seemed
very excited, and much wanted to come,
and when I told him he was far too small,
he held out his arms as though bracing his
biceps,

"Yes, Miss, I'm small, but I'm very
strong ; I hope you will try me." But
when he found I was obdurate, he concluded
coolly,

Well I good morning, Miss ; there's
another boy waiting for you in the hall.
I hope he'll suit ! "but he didn't.

Another stripling soon followed ; he
looked as though a breath of wind would
blow him away, but he said he thought he
could undertake the situation. I found
he had taken care of a pony in a former
place, but his chief boast was that he had
had the charge of three pigs, and he seemed
perfectly astonished when I informed him
I did not think he was likely to suit.

The next boy was a regular Tom Thumb,
who I am sure could not have reached upto
Shamrock's head, though he unblushingly
assured me he had been accustomed to
groom a seventeen hand horse ! All I can
say is he must have had a ladder to do it.
He was rather inclined to combat my decision
against him, he was so sure he " could
do the work well'*

Then followed a regular stud-groom, a
man of perhaps thirty-live ; he was a very
grand person, and had a marvellous opinion

of his own abilities. It puzzled me greatly
that he should answer an advertisement fora
" strong, steady lad' and I told him so.
He replied, that he thought " there was no
harm in coming," and in this I could but
agree with him. He was not easy to dismiss,
however, for he seemed to have a
great desire to relate all his family history,
and his life appeared to have been spent in
racing and hunting stables. It certainly
was not likely that he would suit us.

Then there was a boy who had been
along of nag bosses ;" and a middle aged
man who was in the militia, and would
have to go out with his regiment for a
month every spring ; and a great many
others ; so many in fact, that it showed mea
sad truth — namely, that the demand for
labour was very much behind the demand
for work, and that there must be a vast deal
of distress among these unemployed people,

and after all, out of so many, there was
only one who seemed in any degree suitable,
and I could not say I much liked him.
I mean the young man with the projecting
ears ; but, strange to say, Sir Charteris took
to him — he talked himself into the situation
; the references gave him the highest
possible character, and my father engaged
him. His name was James Lumley, but
when he was not near he went among us
by the name of '' Ears " always.

Chapter X.

OuE, old acquaintances in Devonshire Terrace
still continued to estimate our status
by the size of our residence. Wi Rowland
^Yas decidedly larger than any of the houses
on the common, and it was detached,
standing in its own grounds, therefore we
appeared to have gone up in the opinion of
the inhabitants of Little Newington, yet
there was a back current of vender, surprise,
and almost pity in their looks when we went
out from among them, which I must confess
greatly puzzled me. Lady Lavinia,
instead of mending, grew rapidly worse.

and the longed for drives with our dear old
Shamrock were few and far between. I
had both night and day work at that time,
and often I saw Mr. Lyndhurst's eyes
fixed upon me. At last he spoke :

'' Miss Miriam, this cannot go on much
longer, you are almost at the end of your
tether ; this strain has been upon you too
long already."

Oh ! I am very strong," I answered, but
it was not altogether true, and tears rose
to the surface, only just because I was overstrung,
and was unused to have others think
for me.

"You may be, constitutionally," he
returned kindly, *but you have had too
much work of late and too little play."

'^ You are thinking of the old rhyme,
Mr. Lyndhurst, I suppose, and consider I
have grown into a ' dull boy,' but really
there is nothing wrong with me at all."

Not at present, I hope, but we shall not
be able to say so long, if you do not take
more care of yourself"

How can 1 1" I ask pitifully. " Lady
Lavinia cannot be neglected."

'' Nor must you be sacrificed' he said
decidedly, and did not refer to the subject
again, but he must have sought an interview
with my father on his way from town,
for the next morning Sir Charteris laid
his hand upon my shoulder, and told me
to try and take better care of myself;
and two days after he called me into the
study.

"Miriam," he said, *'I know you have
done your best for your mother, but now
you must give up the reins to one who is
older. Daily, I fear, the dulness in the
sick room will become more onerous. We
cannot stave death off for long, and your
poor mother's sufferings are not likely to

decrease. As I said before, you have done
all you can, but you are not accustomed to
nursing ; those who are, know of a thousand
small ways of alleviating pain, and of
soothing, that the inexperienced have no
idea of, it will be better for you and for my
poor wife too."

Tears rushed into my eyes.

*'I thought Lady Lavinia was satisfied
with my attention to her," I said sadly.

That is nonsense, Miriam, and for your
own sake you must give up ; your strength
has been too much tried already, or you
would not cry about nothing."

Mr. Lyndhurst has been talking to
you," I said, somewhat resentfully.

He has — he has pointed out my duty,
and I must follow his advice ; he is right, it
it is not fit that you should be left to face
Death's slow and sad advances alone."

For a moment I pondered; there was

some truth in what had been said, hut my
feelings were hurt at being superceded,
and I fear I showed it in my manner.

As you please, of course, papa," I replied,
" but I am sorry you should leave
Lady Lavinia to the tender mercies of a
paid nurse, however well trained she.
may be."

I see, Miriam, you have not escaped the
hall-mark of the Costelions, you have both
temper and pride like the rest of us, but
you may set your mind at ease, I should
be very unlikely to bring a hired nurse to
my wife. The lady I have asked to come
I hope you will learn to love. She has
never been in a sisterhood, or anything of
that sort, but she has gone through a
perfect training as a nurse, and has even
helped in time of need under the Red
Cross.

Your Aunt Phyllis has many sad

VOL. II. F

and romantic tales she can tell you if she
will."

My Aunt PhyUis ! " I faltered. " Do
you really mean that my mother's sister is
coming to nurse Lady Lavinia'?"

'' Why not your mother's sister as well
as your mother's daughter, Miriam'? A
good woman goes without question whereever
she sees duty beckon her."

*' It is good of her to come," is all I reply.

** Yes, it is good ; more so, perhaps, than
you realize, for I have only seen her twice
since your poor mother died, but I knew I
could depend upon her."

'how old is she 1" I ask.

'your Aunt Phyllis? well, let me see,
she must be about thirty-seven."

And is she like my mother ?" I venture,
for it is so seldom I speak of her, that I
feel afraid to mention her name.

Yes, Miriam, very like ; and if you

want to know what your aunt is in appearance,
look in the glass, and imagine what
you will be seventeen years hence ; yet
there is a difference, there is a look in your
aunt's face I cannot describe. A sweet
expression, I suppose, people would call it.
And now, my dear, I need not keep you,
but first I must tell you that your aunt
will sleep in the dressing-room you now
occupy, and you must have another one
rigged up for yourself."

'every well, papa, there is the gabled
attic, I can have that''

My father looked at me suddenly, as

though he intended to forbid my taking

possession of that chamber, but instead he

stopped in the speech he was beginning,

quite abruptly, and merely asked, 'ris there

no other 1 it is large and bare, and a smaller

one would suit you better, I should fancy."

'* There is no other disengaged," I reply.

F 2

Lady Costelion has one, Lady Trevelyan
another ; then there is your own room, and
Lady Lavinia's, and the dressing-roorn ;
Florence's, Bob's, and Trevelyan's — that
makes eight," I say, counting them on my
fingers, '' and the gabled one is nine ;
that is all there are, except the servants'
wing over the kitchen, and 1 cannot go
there."

*' We managed to pack into a much
smaller compass in Devonshire Terrace," he
remarked, with a sad smile.

Yes, indeed, we were like figs in a
drum ; I wonder we have ever come to our
own right shapes again."

"Well, then, there seems no help for
your trying the gabled room, Miriam, — if
you don't like it, you must let me know,
that is all."

Oh ! I shall like it well enough," I return,
"I am not very particular;" and the

matter is settled. Then I rise to go, but
my father has yet a few words for me.

*'My dear, is not your sister getting
rather — intimate — I suppose I must say,
with Sir Gordon Graham V

'' She sees a good deal of him," I answer,
*' but I do not know if they mean anything.
I do not think Florence is like other girls ;
she was such very great friends with Mr.
Radcliffe, and then with Mr. Lyndhurst.
She will amuse herself with Sir Gordon,
no doubt, until she sees someone she likes
better, or out of whom she can get more
fun, unless, indeed, she really falls in love ;
that might alter her."

Sir Charteris looked at me somewhat
coldly. "I cannot say you draw a very
pretty picture of your sister's character,
Miriam. I trust she is not so bad as you
represent her to be ;' and T see at once
that he is angry with me.

"Papa!" I exclaim, hotly, ''do not ask
me, if you do not want to know the truth.
I shall never volunteer information, you
may be sure ; but if there be anything you
can say or do to persuade Florence not to
flirt as she does, it would be far happier
for her, I am sure — you know how people
talk — and I have before now been congratulated
upon her engagement to Mr.
Radcliffe."

For a moment my father's eyes emitted
their old proud light. " You ought to have
told me of that before," he said, sternly;
"and Miriam, do you think this man —
this parson — has encouraged such a report?
that he supposed for a moment that he
could mate ^dth a Costelion?"

"I do not think he had anything todo
with the rumour; but I am sure atone
time he believed my sister cared for
him."

'rand what does he think now ?" asked
Sir Charteris, grimly.

*well! he does not come here very often
now, and Florence seldom goes to church.
She says we are too far off, and it is my
opinion that the vicar is about as miserable
as he can well be."

My father is about to make an impatient
rejoinder, but I stop him for once.
You must not be too hard on him, papa.
Remember what a bright vision our beautiful
Florence must have been to him after
the life he described to us. Fatherless,
living in such poverty with his widowed
mother, that he thought our rooms in
Devonshire Terrace paradisaical ! there was
no wonder that he should have been
dazzled out of his generally sober senses,
nor that he feels the darkness, now that
the sun has set for him''

"Do you mean to tell me for one

nicene that Mr. Radcliffe expected my
daughter to marry him V he asked, sternly.
''I cannot tell, papa. I dont suppose
people in love reflect whether they are
wise or no, but there is some excuse for
them. But what I feel to be wrong is,
that Florence should amuse herself at anyone's
expense just to pass the time."

'you are hard on your sister, Miriam,
though, nevertheless, you are right; but
perhaps Phyllis Armatage will be able to
influence her for good, and you must allow
much for youth and high spirits ; for myself
I throw the chief blame on Mr. Radcliffe
— his pretensions were presumptuous,
his attentions impertinent."

The position of a clergyman is that of
a gentleman, papa, and ladies of the highest
rank have married them," I begin; but
my father stops me.

'' Thank you, Miriam ; probably I know

more of the world and of society, and of
what people do, and what they ought or
ought not to do, than you can tell me ;"
and, drawing his newspaper towards him,
he began to read, and I knew that our
interview was over, and that I was dismissed,
and I greatly feared in disgrace.

So that was my last night in my cozy
little room — the last night of my being in
charge of the invalid.

If anyone but my own aunt had deposed
me, I should have felt it more still ; but I
had ever longed for communion with my
mother's relations.

The next morning was a busy one ; yet
I lingered over every service rendered to
my stepmother, feeling sure I should not
be wanted in future.

The gabled room was cleaned and prepared,
and I carried up my belongings and
put them away in the chest of drawers, and

everything was ready when the Newington
fly drove up to our door with Aunt Phyllis.
Sir Charteris was himself at home to receive
her, he was ever a courteous man;
and the rest of us — his children — were
there too, because he bade us come, not
because we all liked it. Bob and I were,
of course, pleased to see our mother's sister;
but Florence and Trevelyan looked down
upon her, that was evident.

What a sweet face it was that glanced
around on us so kindly, and settled upon
me. "You are Miriam, I am sure," she
said, and took me by both my hands.

I was unused to be made much of, and
stood there not quite knowing what todo.


"Will you not kiss me, my niece V she
said, gently.

Then I raised my eyes and met that dear
loving look of hers which I learnt so to

prize later on, and without hesitation I
lifted my lips to her's.

I am very glad to see you, dear Aunt
Phyllis," I said, eagerly.

** That is right, my child, I see we shall
be friends." Then she turned to the others
and greeted each separately. She did not,
however, let go my hand, but held it
firmly and warmly clasped within her own.

"Miriam," said my father, "I shall leave
your aunt in your charge — take her to her
own room — see that she has all she needs,
and make her feel at home."

So Aunt Phyllis and I ascended the
stairs together. I cannot tell how it was,
but everything went smoothly after my
aunt's arrival. She was one of those very
few people in the world who influence all
around them for good.

There are people — and religious, right
thinking people too — who always appear to

act as an irritant to others ; but with Aunt
Phyllis came a sense of calm and security.
Lady Lavinia took to her at once, and erelong
the irritable invalid became patient
and long suffering.

Her pillows were always placed at the
most comfortable angles. Aunt Phyllis was
quick though quiet in her movements. A
rustling dress, a creaking shoe, was never
allowed in the sick room, and sometimes if
1 happened to enter unexpectedly I saw
the two women with hand clasped in hand,
and marked the expression of their faces,
and I knew that whatever my Aunt
Phyllis said to my stepmother was doing
its perfect work, for never had I seen that
calmness and resignation in Lady Lavinia
before, and the tears that I frequently
surprised in her eyes were not tears of
fretfulness as of yore, but of love and
tenderness.

Before I proceed, however, I must here
speak of my first night in the gabled chamber.
I felt strange, and slept but little.
From time to time there came to me a
noise — a groan surely, or a moan ; but
when I sat up in bed to listen, all was still
painfully still —-so still that I could hear
my own heart beat, and my hair seemed to
stand erect upon my head. For long I
held my breath ; but there was no sound,
and with a sigh of relief I was again lying
down, when the strange noise smote upon
my ears, and once more I started up, and
stretched their powers to the utmost to
hearken. The sound came to me faintly,
but there was no mistake — it was there.
I summoned all my courage, got up, and
walking to my dormer window, drew up
the blind and looked out. A light breeze
rustled the tree branches, that was all, and
with a sense of chilliness I was thinking of

returning to my bed, when again came
that low moan. I groped my way to the
door, opened it and listened. All in the
house was still as death. I would not disturb
the sleepers.

Then I bethought me that a light would
be company, and walked slowly to my
candlestick, feeling my way by the various
articles of furniture ; but the usual box of
matches had been forgotten, and, as though
rejoicing at the fact, again came the weird
sound, intensified, and a loud gust of wind
swept over the house, which kept me company
in a great shiver.

The Costehons were not supposed to
know the meaning of the word fear, and it
must have been the chilliness of the night
which caused me to creep back quickly into
bed, and pull the clothes around my head so
as to exclude all sense of hearing. Even then
it was some time before I slept, and when I

awoke in the morning I had a drowsy, weary-feeling
upon me, such as I had never felt in
the days of my nursing.

When I went down, heavy eyed, to
breakfast, I saw that my father was
regarding me intently ; but I had no
idea of telling him anything about the
nocturnal sounds which had disturbed my
rest.

"Have you a headache, Miriam?" he
asked, abruptly ; " you are not looking well
to-day."

I could scarcely believe my ears. Never
before, as far as I could remember, had Sir
Charteris taken notice of my personal
appearance, or questioned me as to my
night's rest."

I did not sleep very well, papa," I
answered, simply.

'' Why not ?" he questioned.

"Oh, I cannot tell — I do not know.

People cannot always sleep ; the strange
room may have to answer for it''

"Strange — how strange ? Is there anything
the matter with it, Miriam ? is it not
comfortable ? I will tell you ^vhat, child,
you shall have mine. Perhaps you may
like that better."

I would not for the world, papa ! The
idea of such a thing ! The room is nice
enough, it is large and airy, and is of course
a contrast to the one I have had of late. I
dare say it is healthier, and contains more
oxygen ; but you must acknowledge that
one never feels quite at home at first in a
£rest apartment."

Is that all ? are you sure?" asked my-father
; "it seems to me that you are keeping
something back from me."

I will be sure to tell you, papa, if I
don't like my room," I answered, evasively
so pray do not give me a thought."

But I gave a great many thoughts to the
subject. What were those sounds ? Why
had my father been anxious about my comfort
? It was not usual ; he had hitherto
taken it for granted if he had considered
the matter at alL

That he should offer to exchange his
comfortable chamber for my half-furnished
one in the roof more than surprised me. It
would have touched me, but that I could
not divest my mind of the fancy that he
must have some motive which had not come
to the surface.

Then my heart gave a great bound.
Why had my father got this house so
cheap ? It was a pretty place — why had it
remained so long untenanted ? Why had
the people of Little Newington congratulated
us on its acquisition with such peculiar
looks ? Why had they since inquired with

such marked emphasis whether we liked
VOL. II. G

the house, and when we had replied in the
affirmative, why had they looked almost
disappointed? What had they expected?
What did my father expect ? Was there a
mystery, and was it centred in that gabled
chamber ? Once more I seemed to hear the
moan of the night before ; I felt a shiver
run through me; I was staring before me
with unseeing, dilated eyes.

'was that room haunted f" was the
question which I had just asked myself,
and I was unable to answer it. All at once
a bright ray of sunlight gleamed through
the window upon my face, and at the same
moment a hand fell sharply upon my
shoulder, and I uttered a cry.

Good gracious, Miriam, I should have
said you were star-gazing, only there are
no stars visible at this time of day. Why,
you look as though you had seen a veritable
ghost," laughed Trevelyan.

Perhaps I have'

'well, I wish to goodness you would
introduce me, that's all," he returned, with
a grin ; " but do you know, Miriam, a
fellow I met the other day did tell me that
Willowlands was haunted, and that no one
would live there till we came in. I cannot
help thinking what jolly fun it would be to
make the ghost's acquaintance, I hope it
would be a jovial kind of spirit''

''Ah! but suppose, on the contrary, he
only groaned and seemed in great pain, and
you could not see him at all — do you think
that would be equally pleasant ? " I asked,
quietly.

No, indeed, that would give me the
blues. I don't bargain for such a ghost as
that."

"Nor do I, so let us drop the subject."

And I hoped the ghost had dropped me,
for all was still the following night. I

G 2

made sure that I had matches, but I had
no need to use any ; the weather was calm,
not a sound disturbed me, and I was soon
asleep, and did not awake until I was called
the next mornings."

'* Well, have you seen anything?" questioned
Trevelyan, in a whisper.

Nothing. When I do, I am going to
introduce you," I replied, laughing. The
vague fears of two nights before had been
left behind, and refreshing sleep had restored
me to my usual spirits. Sir Charteris regarded
me keenly.

Have you had a better night, Miriam ?"
he asked, as I greeted him, and being
satisfied with my answer, he went on without
another word reading his newspaper.

Those first days after my Aunt Phyllis's
arrival were rather objectless ones. I had
lost my old groove, and had found no
new one, and felt in consequence dull and

restless. The pride was somewhat taken
out of me to find how much better the sickroom
was managed than under my auspices.
But, in spite of all A.\mt Phyllis's kind
ministrations, my poor stepmother grew
rapidly worse, and Mr. Lyndhurst was
oftener than ever in attendance. I knew
that his presence was necessary, but I
trembled at the thought of the hill.

My nights had not altogether been good
ones since I had become the inmate of the
fabled chamber. Often I was aroused
suddenly from sleep with a fluttering heart,
dreading: I knew not what, and ever and
anon hearing that sad sound which had
greeted me upon the first night of my
tenancy ; but with morning light my courage
returned, so I kept the matter a secret,
and even to myself acknowledged no shadow
of fear.

Sir Gordon Graham called constantly at

Willowlands, and somehow he came to be
looked upon among us as mj sister Florence's
future husband, though I am bound
to confess that he had not spoken to my
father upon the subject, and that he was
equally friendly with me as my sister ; but
there was a tender deference in his manner
towards her which any woman, without
vanity, might construe into love, and Florence
undoubtedly did so. She was our
idle one, and many of his visits proved to
be tete-tete with our wilful beauty. I
tried once or twice to persuade her to be
more careful — not to trust him too fully —
not to see him too much alone, but she
only laughed at me for my pains, merrily
telling me that I was jealous of her good
fortune.

I had ascertained from my dear old
friends, the Montagues, that Sb Gordon
Graham, although not a rich man, was yet

not a poor one, and that his family and his
prospects were good.

The worst point about these Grahams
seemed to be their family pride, and there I
think they could hardly outstrip the Postilions.
We certainly could throw no stones
at them on that score. That he had spoken
of his affection to my sister I felt sure, but
so far he had certainly not asked her to be
his wife.

About a week after Aunt Phyllis's
arrival she came into the room where I
was sitting alone, and drew a chair to my
side.

Miriam, dear, I want a few words with
you about your sister — what a beautiful
girl she is !"

'eyes, Florence is very pretty," I answered,
*' and I earnestly hope she will find
happiness. I fear she is somewhat restless
and unsettled, and I confess I should be

glad to see her with a good, kind husband
whom she could love."

That, I suppose, she will soon have, if
one may judge by appearances."

I do not know, auntie. I hope so ; but
one never knows what a man means until
he declares himself."

A look of surprise passed over my aunt's
face.

*' Are they not, then, engaged, Miriam'*
*' Not that I have ever heard, my dear
Aunt Phyllis."

There was silence between us for some
moments, then she raised her eyes to mine.
Does Sir Charteris approve of the intimacy
? Does he know how often he is
here?"

"Well, auntie, I think papa likes Sir
Gordon, and I believe he would accept him
as a son-in-law ; but I confess I do not say
more than I can help about his visits, for

Florence would not like it, and she soon
gets annoyed with me."

'' I can understand your feelings, Miriam ;
but duty is duty, and your father should
know the truth. Will you speak to him, or
shall 11"

I shall be grateful if you will, Aunt
PhylHs. If I must tell the truth, I am
somewhat afraid of Sir Charteris."

Poor child," she murmured, softly,
while her gentle white hand smoothed my
dusky head ; " poor child, when there are
two or three families, interests get divided ;
but your father is a man of honour, Miriam,
and that is much in these days."

'' Of that I am sure," T answer eagerly ;
and he bore up bravely when his trouble
came upon him. Aunt Phyllis, I felt proud
of papa, then. He made no complaint, no
fuss ; and I know what it must have been
to him to leave Kingsholme."

"Every true man takes up Ms cross,
dear, when the time comes to bear it. Your
father has done so, I always felt sure he
would."

'^ Oh ! auntie, have you really thought
so kindly of him all these years, when he
was so wrongly neglecting you *? "

She laid her hand upon my arm, and the
sweet face was bending over me. " Miriam,
my dear, dear girl, is that honouring your
father, to judge him? His conduct was
not wrong. Our paths lay apart, and it
was better as it was. Now things are
different, and I am glad I can be of some
little use to him. As to thinking kindly
of him, Miriam, your dear mother was my
favourite sister, and as pure and good a
woman as ever God made. She considered
Sir Charteris worthy of her love and perfect
confidence ; after that would you have
had me withhold my respect and regard 1 "

You are right, and I wrong," I murmured,
after a pause ; " but I have never
had anyone like you before to give me the
key to the difficult riddle of duty. Very,
very often I have supposed papa unkind,
hard, wanting in care and thought, and
after all perhaps the fault has been with
me.

The firm white hands clasped both my
own.

It is always better to think oneself in
the wrong and not others, believe me, dear
Miriam, and I feel sure if, when we fancy
people are not using us well, we would only
take the trouble to examine our own hearts,
we should find that the chief fault has
been our own. We should be careful how
we make others to offend"

'' I have never thought of things in that
light. Aunt Phyllis ; but in future I will
try. If I had had my dear mother to

guide me I might have been a different sort
of girl'

We are contented with you as you
are, my niece. Sir Charteris gives you a
good character. He says you have ever
been his right hand since his troubles
began''

Oh ! Aunt Phyllis, he could not have
said that," I cried, passionately, tears starting
to my eyes. " I have ever been ready
to take offence at his every word and look
he must know it — he must have seen it.
I have been hard and cold, and wanting in
love; he cannot think well of me."

My darling, it is right that you should
feel that. Neither your Heavenly Father
nor your earthly father expect you to be
faultless ; but both are ready to forgive.
The confession of the prodigal is all that is
ever needed — '1 have sinned ' — but my child,
whatever comes to you, whatever troubles

you have to bear, never doubt the love and
wisdom of God, or the earthly parent He
has placed over you."

And I promised her then that I would
not ; but I little knew how soon my filial
duty was to be taxed.

*' One word more only, now, Miriam.
You have heard the very old story of the
man who carried two bags to put faults
into."

Yes, auntie, I suppose most of us have
done so I "

Well, dear, you cannot tell what a help
it is to do the reverse of what that man
did ; place all the short comings of those
around you in the bag behind, and think of
them as little as possible, but keep your
own in front, for it won't hurt you, or any
of us, to take a peep at them sometimes.
It will help us to take pains to do better.
It will keep us humble. I read some

pretty words, Miriam, last New Year's day.
They were only on a card, but they were
worth remembering, so I committed them
to memory. Will you do the same ? they
are very simple —

Speak a shade more kindly

Than the year before ;
Pray a little oftener,

Love a little more ;
Cling a little closer

To the Father's love ;
Life below shall liker grow

To the life above.'

I can add nothing to those entreaties,
Miriam, dear, and those words may have
greater weight with you when I tell you
that they were sent to me by a friend who,
in youth, was very fooHsh, exacting, and
frivolous, but who has, through her own
sorrow, learnt what love and kindness are,
and can do. Poor thing ! she had only
herself to thank for her unhappiness, but

that, I think, makes it all the harder to
bear."

Would it be a breach of confidence to
tell me about her '? " I asked.

I will tell you some day, Miriam, dear,
but not now ; it is a long story and a sad

one."

CHAPTER XL

Aunt Phyllis and Sir Charteris were
closeted together that evening, and the
next day my father remained at home instead
of going to London, and when, at
the usual hour, Sir Gordon Graham called,
he was shown into the study instead of the
drawing-room.

During the time of his incarceration
there, my sister seemed nervous and restless;
I began to try and amuse her, but
my efforts were met by such irritability
that I gave up all attempts at conversation,
and after awhile I crept up to the
sick room to see if Aunt Phyllis would take

a walk, and let me sit with my stepmother,
an offer of which she gladly availed herself.

"When you have done as much nursing
as I have, dear Miriam," she said, with her
sweet smile, " you will know that a certain
amount of fresh air and a certain amount
of sleep are imperative to enable you to do
your duty properly to the patient, and that
if you stiffer, your charge is more than
likely to suffer also."

Miriam," whispered Lady Lavinia, as
the door closed after her, " God has been
very merciful to me ; I can see His hand in
it all now. Had we stayed at Kingsholme,
had I not met with that accident, Phyllis
Armatage might never have come amongst
us ; then I should, perhaps, never have
learnt what I have done. Miriam, I am
very happy, and am contented whatever
comes to me. I know all has been ordered
for my good."

VOL. II. H

There Alas a little pause between us.
My stepmother's words had touched me,
and I was one of those people who dislike to
show their feelings, but at length I spoke.

Oh ! Lady Lavinia, I am so glad."

Then my stepmother held my hand in
hers, and raised herself to kiss me.

I do not think my time will be long
here, Miriam, and there is no hour to call
our own but the present, and, dear child, we
may not find ourselves together alone again
soon."

"Do not talk, dears' I urged, "you are
flushed and tired. We can be alone whenever
you wish ; Aunt Phyllis Avould not
mind. I will ever come to you, dear Lady
Lavinia, if only you express a wish to
see me. I am sure you know I would
never have given up the care of you of my
own free will ; it was only that that foolish
Mr. Lyndhurst hould have it that I was

not well, and — and I fear Sir Charteris did
not think I was good nurse enough for you."

Then the blood rushed to my face ; had
I not been very near to judging my father I
Was my promise already forgotten ?

My stepmother clasped my hand still
more tightly.

"Miriam," she whispered, *' don't say
that, but forgive me if I tell you I can but
rejoice that your aunt has come among us.
What a sweet woman she is, and Miriam,
dear, you are like her. Child, if it is any
pleasure to you to know it, you have been
my sunbeam upon a dark and weary path.
You have ever been good to me, dear little
Miriam, but there has been one thing wanting,
you have never given me your love."

Oh ! Lady Lavinia ! surely you have
never wanted it, never needed it," I cried.

Yes, I have, dear, I have often felt sad

and lonely ; but it is over now. Yet,

H 2

Miriam, I have one favour to ask you :
could you call me mother just for the little
time that is left to me ? Could you try and
feel as if I really belonged to you '? "

The pain-weary eyes looked at me so
pleadingly that I knew not what to
answer ; it seemed to me treachery to give
that name to any but my own mother ;
the doubt and difficulty I felt must have
appeared in my face, for the poor soul said —

Never mind, Miriam, never mind, if
you cannot do it ; but you see I have no
girl of my own, only Trevelyan, and boys
are so thoughtless. Your aunt fancied
you would humour me, and said she felt
sure your own dear mother would not
grudge you to me ; and it will only be for
such a little while."

'' Did Aunt Phyllis say that ? " I asked,
eagerly. '' Then I need not hesitate ; indeed
I have been fond of you ; and now,

mother, dear, let me be to you as your own
child." .

Then I crept up beside her on the bed,
and we held one another's hands, and were
very still. She was wearied out, but was
quiet and happy, and so we remained until
Aunt Phyllis came back to us — she seemed
to understand it all, and stooping, kissed us
both.

When I went down stairs again, I found
Sir Gordon with my sister Florence, in the
drawing-room ; neither of them looked very
comfortable, and I did not wonder at that,
for I would rather remain an old maid for
the rest of my life than have any man asked
his intentions regarding me.

But Sir Gordon made the best of it — he
arose, and coming towards me held my
hand for a few moments, and made his little
speech.

We want your congratulations, please ;

and now, I suppose I may call you Miriam,
without any jDrefix/'

"Yes, plain Miriam," I replied, smiling
up at him, '' if, as I suppose, you mean that
you and Florence have made up your minds
at last."

"Have we been so very long about
it ? " he questioned, looking mischievously
in my eyes. "I think I have known
some who have been far longer, have I
not 'i ''

So you are to be my brother," I said,
taking no notice of his remark, except that
my cheeks glowed.

Yes ! and as such I trust you will
treat me,^' he replied — and he kissed my
brow.

I don't know whether he expected me to
be angry, or whether I ought to have
feigned anger not feeling it, but I didn't.
I only looked up in his face and called

him brother, and then I took my sister in
my arms, bnt she soon shook me off.

For goodness sake, Miriam, season your
admiration," she exclaimed, petulantly, " or
I shall have no collar left — see how you
have crumpled me." A look of vexation
passed over Sir Gordon s face.

Will you scold me whenever I tumble
your fi-ills, Flo ? " he asked. " If so I fear I
shall be often in disgrace."

The colour deepened on her cheeks, and
she cast him a saucy espiegie look — that
was all her answer ; and I gave them both
my good ashes heartily.

Good gracious, my dear," laughed my
sister, 'you seem to think this a very
solemn affair, and I am sure I trust it is
not. I am not equal to anything serious, I
assure you."

An expression of extreme annoyance
crossed Sir Gordon's face. " Well, I must

confess," he said, " I do not think it is any-light
matter to settle upon one's companion
for life, but — "

I laid ray hand upon his arm —

Florence never does herself justice," I
said, earnestly. " Pray take no heed of such
remarks, should she make them ; believe
me they mean nothing — indeed, I am sure
my sister, if happy, will be a good and fond
wife, and it rests with you to make her so."

'' Thank you, Miriam," he answered, in a
low voice, " I can trust your judgment ; "
then I crept away and left the lovers
together.

As I passed through the hall, the postman's
ring, followed by the click of the
letter box, fell upon my ear, and I hastened
to see what he had there deposited for us.

There were two letters only, one for Sir
Charteris, and one for me — both foreign
letters — both from India, and both in the

same handwriting. By the time I had
recognized that fact, the maid came in
answer to the ring, salver in hand, and I
placed the missive to my father upon it in
silence, and after looking at the direction,
she took it straight to his study, while I
hurried with a beating heart up to my
gabled room, and there read mine.

No ! I am not going to tell you what was
in my first love letter — not likely — but its
perusal left me very happy.

How strange it was that Flo and I
should be engaged on the very same day, I
thought, as I sat with my letter clasped in
both my hands — the dear letter which told
me of a love which had borne the test of
time and separation. How my heart
glowed. Herbert Armstrong had loved
me ever since that day when he had
risked his life to save mine, and now,
although not a rich man, he had enough

for us both, and had written to ask me
to be his wife.

A great gladness filled my heart. I had
no shame now in acknowledging that he
had been my one thought — my one love.

All the old void had left my life — it seemed
almost too complete, too full of joy and
happiness. I felt no hesitation — none
whatever. I was ready to follow him to the
world's end. In one year he would come
home and claim me, if I consented to be his.
If I consented ! dear, darling Herbert,
was not my life his by right ? had he not
saved it for himself; had it not been his
ever since, although I had never acknowledged
the fact even to myself, until that
morning when a vision came to me, as I
have set down earlier in these pages, and
then the truth was veiled, and only half
revealed ; but now, I might own my love
and glory in it, for I was to be his wife.

Time passed on, but it was nothing to me.
I was alone with my happiness ; that was
sufficient for me. I took no note of the
fading daylight, and was startled from my
reverie by the dinner bell.

Hastily I performed my simple toilet,
and ran down stairs ; never had my footsteps
seemed so light. Shyly I sought my
father's face ; it was grave and preoccupied,
and wore an expression I could not fathom,
and a sudden chill fell upon me.

Fortunately, Sir Gordon remained to
dinner, or I do not know how that meal
would have been got through.

When it was over a soft hand clasped
mine, and Aunt Phyllis was beside me.

Will you come into the next room, dear
Miriam," she whispered. I raised my eyes
to hers as a dumb animal might do. 1 did
not drop her hand, but clung to it, and
went beside her silently. When we reached

the drawing room, she turned her sweet face
to mine ; how full it was of love, and pity,
and of gentleness.

''Do you remember, dear, that you promised
me this afternoon you would never
question your father's actions '? "

My lips framed an answer, but they gave
forth no sound.

I did not then think your truth was so
soon to be tried, darling," she said, softly,
*' but your father has been telling me the
contents of a letter he has this afternoon
received. He has bidden me say that he
cannot consent to Captain Armstrong's
wishes."

"But auntie, tvhij V I cry wildly.
What objection can he possibly have ?
he is a gentleman, a man of honour, and
a Christian ; and oh ! auntie, I do love
him so, I cannot give him up ; " and in
another moment I was sobbing upon Aunt

Pliyllis^s bosom, with lier arms clasped
about me.

It is very hard to bear, daring," she
whispered, "but if he is all you say, he will
wait, and be faithful. Miriam dear, my
heart tells me you will yet be happy if you
do right."

'' Auntie, tell me what I ought to do," I
pleaded. "If I may not love Herbert, my
happiness in life will be over."

No one can prevent your loving one
another dear. Answer your lovers letter,
Miriam, and tell him the truth ; that you
love him, and will be true to him, but that
you cannot marry against your father's
wishes. If he is at all the man I take him
tc be, he will be patient, and respect you
all the more for your openness, and for
doing your duty — you see, Miriam, you are
not yet even of age."

That is a fault which will soon mend. I

shall be twenty-one shortly. But oh !
auntie, if you have never loved yourself,
you cannot know what you are asking me
to do."

I have loved, Miriam, and indeed I
need not speak of it in the past tense, I
love still, child. Would it help you if I were
to tell you my history ? I have never
spoken of it for fifteen years, but if it will
assist you, I will tell you of my life's hopes
never fears, Miriam, for I have always
trusted the man I love."

She sat silent for some time, then began''

You know that your dear mother was
the eldest of our family, and as such inherited
the bulk of the large fortune left by
my dear father. There were several of us,
and the rest of the money was divided
between us, after my mother s life interest
had been secured to her. Now, only my
mother and I are left, and all, except my

eldest sister's property, has become ours,
so we are well off, although we would indeed
far rather have remained poor.

'well, dear, when I was scarcely more
than a child, I met a gentleman. He was
very young too, but we were not too young
to love. He was of a very good family —
mine, as you know, could not boast of blue
blood, but, thank God, the Armytage have
all been honest men and women, although
their money has been made in business.
Well, Miriam, my lover's father would not
hear of his 'throwing himself away,' and
forbade any engagement between us, but
Ralph would have given up all for me, and
would have married me then, had I consented
to his doing so ; but I would not.
I told him my love for him should never
lead him to disobey his father, and ruin his
prospects ; but we plighted troth, Miriam !
and I assured him if ever the time came when

my love should be needful to him, he would
find it still green."

'' Oh, auntie ! and you have waited all
these years."

'eyes ! child, and shall wait for ever ; no
other man can be aught to me."

"I am sure you have had other lovers,
auntie, you are so gentle and sweet."

"Yes dear, I have had offers, but I have
no heart to sive."

*' Have you ever named your engagement.
Does any one know of if?" I questioned,
interested in spite of my own trouble.

No, Miriam, I would not allow it. I
would not even permit him to call himself
bound ; but I have faith in his love — he
will return to me when the barrier between
us is removed, and he will find me waiting
for him."

Poor auntie ! I wish I had your faith,"
I answered sadly ; " and how I hope it will

all come right some day, and that you will
be rewarded for your patience and goodness.
Have you ever seen him since 1 "

Yes, we have met since ; but only twice.
Once he came in upon me on my birthday
unexpectedly. You may fancy my joy,
Miriam ; and once he came to say ' goodbye.'
His father had lost a large part of
his fortune in consequence of being someone's
trustee ; it was hard upon him, and I
felt sorry for him. Ralph said it would
take him ten years to clear off the burthen
thus laid upon him, and he had made up
his mind not to add to his expenses, but to
go out into the great world and make his
own way. I would have gone with him
then, had he asked me to share his poverty ;
and he read it in my face, for he held mein
his arms and told me his life would be
too rough a one even for a brave womanlike
myself to share, but that if God spared

VOL. II. I

him lie would return to me. And he will
come, Miriam' she ended, lifting her beautiful
earnest eyes to mine.

God grant it, Aunt Phyllis ; you are
indeed a brave woman as he called you,
and I will try to be brave too. Auntie,
tell me what is my duty, and I will strive
to do it ; but it will be hard — very hard."

That is my own niece," she said
cheerily. And that very night I wrote to
my lover. It was a blotted, tear-stained
letter, but it told him all that there was in
my heart. I confessed my great love for
him, but, like Aunt Phyllis, I told him a
Father s will stood between us, and, like
her, I promised that I would remain true
to him through life, but that I left him
free.

Midnight had long passed before I laid
down upon my bed, but sleep was far from
my aching eyelids. The dull, low moan

that I had heard so often came to me fitfully,
and made me shudder ; but my mind
was too fully occupied to heed it much.
Herbert's words were ringing in my ears ;
each dear sentence telling me of his love
was photographed upon my mind. A glad
thrill ran through my heart that such love
was mine, followed by a death chill. What
would he say to my response to his offer ?
Would he blame me ; would he cast me
from him as not worthy of his affection ?
My letter was not posted. Should I risk
losing him ? Why should I give him up
for a needless whim of my father's ? Ah !
how strong the temptation was. I could
not put it wholly aside ; morning came and
found it still with me. I was silent and
dogged at breakfast, making a striking contrast
to my sister, who was in one of her
brilliant moods, for she was happy. I fear
I well-nigh grudged her her lightness of

heart. When we were alone together some
of the bitterness of my split reached my
tongue. " I am going out, Florence," I
said. " If I meet Mr. Radcliffe shall I tell
him of your engagement ? "

Yes, do," returned she, with one of her
provoking little yawns (really I have sometimes
thought Florence yawned to show
how small her mouth was, for it certainly
was like a rosebud). " Yes, do ; it will
save me the trouble''

I looked at her in wonder. Had she
really forgotten ? Had she no compunction
for the pain which he would suffer ? So it
appeared, for she was thoroughly unconcerned.
I had intended to tell her of my
sorrow, but her want of feeling grated
upon me, and I felt I couldn't. So I
went up to the sick-room, kissed Lady
Lavinia, called her *' mother," and saw
the gladness gather in the pain-dimmed

eyes. Aunt Phyllis followed me to the
door.

"Have you written, dear?" she asked
softly.

Yes ! I have written ; but oh ! Auntie,
suppose after all I am doing wrong. Suppose
I take the happiness from his life.
Suppose he thinks me unworthy of his love
after this. Aunt Phyllis — it would break
my heart." She did not answer for
awhile, but laid her hand soothingly
upon my shoulder. Then she spoke, soft
and low.

Duty is duty, Miriam ; do not be
scared from doing it by supposing anything.
If your lover is the man I take him for, he
will respect you for acting rightly."

Aunt Phyllis always carried me with her,
lout I made one more struggle.

Auntie, forgive me, but you do not
know Herbert Armstrong ; there are men

who would not ask a girl twice to be their
wife'

"No, certainly not, if she refuse them
from lack of love — or caprice ; but this is
quite another case."

Well, auntie, don't be offended, but I
am going now to his friend. I shall show
Miss Caroline Montague my letter, and if
she says send it — it shall go."

I am quite satisfied, dear," she answered
kindly. " Miss Caroline will advise
you well and wisely, I am sure."

Then she kissed me, and the door closed,
and she returned to the sick room.

My old friend was gathering flowers
when I entered the garden, and came tome
at once with a glad welcome in her
eyes ; but the smile faded as she looked
into my face, " Miriam, is there anything
the matter? I was rather expecting you
this morning, but I hoped the news you

brought me would be good news. Have
you beard from India, dear ? I bad a letter
yesterday''

Yes, dear Miss Caroline, and I want to
talk to you alone for half an your if you
can spare me the time and can manage it."

Without a word sbe led me to her own
little room were sbe bad shown me a part
of a letter some weeks before. How happy
bad it made me, and now must I lose all 'I
I told ber everything, sitting upon a low
stool at ber feet. Of the love wbicb bad
been in my heart for ber favourite since
my early girlhood, and bow it bad grownup
into a deep, strong affection. I did not
show ber bis letter, but I told ber all that
Aunt Phyllis bad said to me, both the
night before and also that morning, and 1
gave ber my answer, and buried my burning
face in ber lap, as sbe read it at my
desire from beginning to end ; and when I

looked up again her dear old face was wet,
and tears stood in her sweet tender eyes,
and the words that she murmured were
only these —

Miriam, you are worthy of him ; have
no fear, dear child, he will love you all the
better for your sense of duty, and rest
assured all will be well'

80 my letter was posted, and I went back
sad and weary to my old life.

In the drive I met Trevelyan, looking
sorrowful — for him. " Why, Tree' I exclaimed,
as brightly as I could, " what a
long face ! Where are you going ? "

"To meet the doctor," he replied; ''my
mother is much worse. Bob has driven
Shamrock over to fetch Lyndhurst, and
poor old granny is half frantic. Aunt
Phyllis has her hands pretty full between
them both, I can tell you."

They had all learnt to call her Aunt

Phyllis. She had taken them all into her
heart, and was aunt to each of them.

Oh ! Tre, I am so sorry," I cried, tears
springing to my eyes.

Well, don't blubber, there's a good
creature, it's bad enough to lose a mother
without being upset by a girl's tears." and
the poor boy turned away sharply to hide
his own. I clasped his hand, but his heart
was sore and could not bear sympathy, and
he drew it away roughly.

•' I wish you would go in, Miriam, and
leave me alone ; you may be wanted."

My heart yearned to comfort him, but I
only seemed to make him worse, so I went
quickly in, and Aunt Phyllis came out to
meet me. " Poor Lady Lavinia is much
worse, dear. If you could help) me keep Lady
Trevelyan from the room, it would relieve
her greatly ; her perpetual wailing distresses
her painfully."

Yes, auntie, I will help in any way I
can ; if I am needed in the sick-room I
know you will call me. Papa will be
shocked to find her so much worse. Auntie,
I am glad I have not added to his troubles.
I posted my letter as I came home''

CHAPTER XII.

Mr. Lyndhurst soon arrived, and went
straight up to my stepmothers room.
Aunt Phyllis stood before me soon after as
I was reading to old Lady Trevelyan, who
had almost forgotten her troubles in those
of others, for the story was a pathetic one.
Mr. Lyndhurst will remain for the night,
Miriam," she whispered ; " he thinks a
crisis is at hand. Can you manage a bed
for him ? Doctors cannot afford to lose
their rests'

"Yes, auntie, I think it can be done.
Trevelyan must sleep in his brother's room.
Bob will not object for once."

*' Very well, dear, please see to it'

I looked into her face, and she answered
my mute inquiry. *eyes, dear, he thinks it
is the end, and he will be with her if
possible. She is sleeping now ; but he
believes she will rally sufficiently to know
you all, then you will be called."

I could not speak. I, who had professed
not to love my stepmother, found that the
parting from her was very sorrowful, and all
the reply I was able to give Aunt Phyllis
was to press her hand and turn away.
I went to my brother, and obtained his
permission to have a bed for Trevelyan put
up in his room, and then passed on to give
the necessary orders to the servants.

No one but the doctor ate any dinner
that night, although we went through the
form of doing so. Even Florence was pale
and still, and when her lover called as
usual, she went to the door to meet him

herself, and drew him into the drawing-room,
and after a few minutes we heard
quiet footsteps passing out through the
hall, and my sister returned to us.

Has Sir Gordon gone ?" I asked.

"Yes, I told him I could not talk today."


That was all ; but it showed me that my
sister Florence was not so lacking in feeling
as she represented herself to be.

There was no change during the evening.
Sir Charteris sat alone between the four
walls of his study, while Lady Lavinia lay
dying. The lethargy was still upon her —
a sleep which so often precedes the final
one, and is broken only by a faint flicker
of the expiring flame of life.

When bedtime came we crept noiselessly
to our rooms ; but I question if any attempted
to sleep. The wind had arisen;
dark clouds swept swiftly over the silvery

moon, which shone white and wan upon
the trees and shrubs, giving them a weird
appearance. The tempest arose higher and
higher, bending the saplings to its will ;
the ivy branches struck upon the windowpanes
of my room fiercely, and the storm
demon seemed to pass by with a shriek
and a howl. But was it gone ! Never,
never had those moans been so loud — never
those groans so deep. What were they ?
what did they mean ?

The pressure of the last few days had
been too much for me ; a dull sense of pain
and fear overpowered me. Little as 1 had
acknowledged it, the nightly noises in my
chamber had shaken me, following upon the
long months of nursing and confinement to
my stepmother's room.

Then the sudden joy of Herbert's love,
and the bitter disappointment of may
father's rejection of his offer — the effort it

had been to me to write that reply, and the
posting of the letter, the return home to
find my stepmother dying — all had gone
far indeed to shake my usually strong
nerves, and I had felt the eyes of Mr.
Lyndhurst fixed upon me many times
during the evening.

Bob's room was the other side of the
house, but Trevelyan's, in which he was, or
was not, sleeping, was beneath mine ; therefore
I moved about as quietly as possible
lest I should disturb him, knowing
how greatly he needed rest ; but none
would come to Tny weary eyes. I laid
dowTi on my bed for some time until the
tension became too much for me, and I felt
that if I remained there any longer I must
scream aloud ; so I struck a light ; but,
alas ! my candle had not an inch to burn,
and the candlesticks on my dressing-table
had been taken away to render

Trevelyan's room a little smarter for the
doctor.

While the light lasted I tried to read.
Aunt Phyllis had told me of several texts
which she thought would afford me comfort.
I found them, and they did. Twelve
o'clock had struck, borne upon the breeze
from some distant church tower. A fierce
gust swept over the house, and suddenly
my Hight expired, as though the blast had
reached it, and I was alone, trembling in
the darkness, afraid to move, while my
heart beat painfully with long throbbing
pulsations that made it feel ready to burst,
and that sound as of one in pain continued.
My excited imagination likened it to an
enchained spirit, shrieking in torment.
One bound to that spot — one who had
committed some fearful crime, and could
not rest — no, no, it could not rest. Nor
would it let me ! yet another of those

pitiful sounds ! I could bear it no longer,
sitting there in the darkness.

There was a moon, that would give me a
certain amount of light at any rate, and I
flew to my little curtained dormer window,
flung back the somewhat heavy draperies,
pulled up the blind, and gazed out.

Oh ! the terror that crept over me ! I
had no fear of things real, but these supernatural
sounds, this sight before me, were
together too much. There, in the moonlight,
gleaming white, was a figure. It
seemed to be that of a tall, slight woman,
and it was clad in a long white garment,
while hair of great length floated about and
around her, the colour of the moon's rays;
and the figure stood there with it's head
raised and it's hand lifted, pointing upward
yes ! surely pointing at me ; and I saw
it s face — ah ! how white it was — beautiful,
but pale as death ! Then, with no will

VOL. II. K

of my own, vaguely I heard myself
scream.

A sound as of many waters rushed over
me ; there was a fierce beating in my ears,
and silence. When I awoke to consciousness
I was lying upon the bed, and Dr.
Lyndhurst and my sister Florence were
bending over me ; both were bathing my
temples with eau de cologne, rubbing my
cold hands and trying to bring me round.

"Poor girl! she is worn out I" said the
doctor, pitifully.

** No, no ! it is not that," I answered ;
only please do not leave me alone anymore
to-nights''

Then the doctor turned to my sister.
Miss Florence, could you find her a
glass of wine, or a little brandy would be
better still. See how she trembles ! "
My sister took up her candle and left
the room; but there was still the second

light which Dr. Ljndhurst had brought
with him.

What is the matter, Miss Miriam," he
questioned, " your heart is pulsating like
that of a frightened bird. You are under
the influence of some great fear. What is
it?"

It is the ghost," I answered, my very
lips trembling. " I have often heard it ;
but to-night I have seen it''

Ah ! I feared that someone had told
you that foolish story," he returned, with
vexation ; "but surely you are too strong-minded
to believe in such nonsense."

**I always imagined myself to be so; but
I suppose I was wrong, and all I know is
that I saw it — a pale, beautiful woman in
white, with long shining hair."

You saw that ?" he questioned. " Then

it must have been your own sister. Where

did you see her?"

K 2

In the garden; but it was not Florence
not a bit like her. This woman's face
was, oh ! so wan. I saw it quite plainly in
the moonlight."

"Show me where," he said, passing across
to the window. " It must have been some
shadow or reflection'

I had not undressed that night, so I slid
off the bed and followed him to the window,
and before I could look out (it being
somewhat narrow) the moonlight shone in
diis face, and I knew by its expression that
whatever I had seen was there still.

"You can see it, then," I gasped, as I
pushed my way past his arm to the front.

It was no longer pointing at me, but was
walking across the lawn with both arms
extended towards the moon.

It must be someone sleep-walking," he
said, hurriedly. "Draw the curtains, and
do not let your sister look out. Directly

she returns to you I will go down and
find out who it is, and what she is doing
there." And as he spoke he pulled the
blind down, and almost before he had
done so my sister re-entered, and he left
the room.

Once more I laid down upon my bed,
and Florence drew a chair beside me, and
with a sudden impulse we both extended
our hands to each other in silence, and so
remained.

About a quarter of an hour afterwards
the sound of wheels smote on our ears,
and my sister started up. "Miriam! do
you hear that? it is in our drivel" and
before I could stop her she had rushed to
the window, and was looking out.

'' Why ! " she exclaimed, " it is as light
as day ; and, I declare, there is Mr. Lynd-
hurst driving out, with a woman in white
beside him ; and, oh ! he is putting his own

great coat around her. Who on earth can
she be ? "

Who, indeed ! " but her words reassured
me, for surely no ghost would require the
doctor's great coat, nor would it be likely
to go for a drive even on such a weird looking
night. If my poor stepmother should
become worse and want him, what could be
done ?

In about an hour the sound of wheels
was again heard, and once more Florence
ran to the window. " I wonder what in
the world he has done with the white
woman," she remarked ; *' he is alone, but
his horse looks ever so tired.'

Before very long a gentle knock came to
my door.

Are you better now. Miss Miriam ? '*
asked Mr. Lyndhurst.

Yes ! thank you, much better."

"That is well, then I will go and lie

down for an hour. I am a little tired. I
was obliged to drive to some distance. You
see we doctors must go where duty calls
us. I am glad I have not been needed
here in my absence," and he turned to leave
the room.

'' Oh ! that was a pleasant sort of duty,
I should think," said Florence, "driving
alone with a pretty woman wrapped up in
your coat in the middle of the night ! "

Oh ! so you let her look out after all,
Miss Miriam," he said, reproachfully.

Really I could not stop her," I returned ;
she was across the room in a moment ;
but you have not told us who your fair
companion was."

That will keep till another time. Now,
good night, try and rest."

Yes, we might tri, but that was all I
could do. My sister did not leave me, and
after awhile she fell asleep, but I lay listening

to that sad sound, still wondering, when
suddenly she sprang up.

Miriam ! what was that ? " she cried.

"Only the wind, Flo," I replied, with
my own heart quaking ; " only the wind.
Go to sleep again, there's a dear."

The wind ! I never heard it make
such a noise as that ! Have you ever had
this accompaniment to your nights rest
before "? "

Oh ! yes, almost every night."

Then come to my room, Miriam ; I
won't stay here any longer. I believe this
is haunted ; " and wrapping her shawl
around her, she took her candle in her hand,
and waited for me."

Without another word I followed her.

'miriam," she said, suddenly, "I have
always thought there was something wrong
about this house. Papa got it cheap, and
was very mysterious about the reason. I

have found it out now. It is haunted, or
at any rate, your room is. You had better
share mine in future. We shall be company
for each other. I have never felt so
lonely in my life as I do to-night. It seems
so awful having death thus near us."

We did not lie down any more, but sat
together, hand in hand, till daylight came,
then we dressed, and went down stairs.

Ill news travels, and before breakfast was
ready Mr. Radcliffe was seen coming up to
our door. My sister uttered an exclamation
of annoyance, and left the room. I,
too, felt sorry (for a moment) that he had
come ; for we had not yet got over the
painful task of telling him of Florence's
engagement ; but the next I was ashamed
of it, for poor Lady Lavinia might wish to
see him.

I have only just heard of your trouble,
Miss Miriam, or I should have come before.

Doubtless you guess why I kept away.
God forbid that I should blame her, but I
would rather have learnt it from her lips
than from those of a stranger. You know
all she was to me, Miss Miriam. I suppose
it is true."

And he raised a poor, pale, pitiful, sorrow-stricken
face to mine, which made me feel
it was difficult to forgive my sister for the
needless pain she had caused a fellow-creature.
I stretched out my hand to him,
and he took it, gratefully.

I am sorry that any member of my

family should have occasioned you suffering,

Mr. Radcliffe, indeed, I am ; but I will not

deceive you, my sister is engaged to Sir

Gordon Graham."

'' Ah ! I thought so," he answered, in a
low voice, and shaded his face from my
sight. After a while, he continued, " I
fancied she had learnt to care for him. She

had given me no promise. She was not
bound to me. I do not blame her. I felt
that it would be so, and I stayed away. I
did not wish lier to be vexed with the sight
of me. I hope she may be very happy.
Will you tell her so from me, Miss Miriam ;
tell her she will ever have my prayers. I
could not say this myself, for I might breakdown,
and thereby hurt her''

I will do your bidding, Mr. Radcliffe.
I cannot believe my sister has intentionally
given you pain, but young people will be
thoughtless."

Are you ever so. Miss Miriam ? " he
asked, kindly. " It seems to me you are
ever thinking for others, and not of yourself."


''Ah! but I do not believe I was ever
young," I answered, with a sad smile.

He looked at me as a sympathizing dog
might do, who feels for and with you, but

has no language in which to frame his condolence.
Then he abruptly turned the
conversation.

Do you think your stepmother would
wish to see me, or to receive the Holy
Communion ? " he asked.

The question came as a shock to me. I
had not even thought of it. I crept gently
to the door of Lady Lavinia's room ; it was
open, and Aunt Phyllis's voice reached me.

*' No ! dear Lady Lavinia, it is not too
late. I feel sure there will be time. Shamrock
shall be sent for Mr. Radcliffe at once.
It is early, and he will not be out, and I
know he will come directly."

"Aunt Phylhs/' I said, in a, low tone,
'* may I come in 1 Mr. Radcliffe is
here."

God has heard your wishes, dear," said
my aunt, gently, *' the vicar is in the
house."

A glad light spread over my stepmother's
worn face.

Stay with her, Miriam' whispered
Aunt Phyllis, and passed from the room.

The end has nearly come, dear," said
Lady Lavinia, weakly. Miriam, you have
been very good to me, let me thank you."

I took her trembling hands in mine.

Indeed, you have nothing to thank me
for, mother" I replied, " you have ever
been kind to me, unobtrusively kind, and
had God spared you, dear, I would have
endeavoured to make you happier."

'' I am happy, very happy, dear girl," she
murmured. '' I have much to thank your
Aunt Phyllis for, Miriam ; trust her, trust
her always, she will not fail you."

She fell back exhausted, and I feared
she had left us. Then Mr. Lyndhurst
entered, quietly, felt her pulse, and administered
a restorative.

One by one our family assembled there
in her sick room. My father, with his
white head bent. My grandmother,
stately and quiet. Fretful old Lady
Trevelyan, with all her complaining
hushed. My brother Bob looking more
of a man than I had ever seen him, grave
and sad. Florence, no longer light of
heart, but still and pale. Poor little
Trevelyan, whose mother was passing
away, scarcely able to restrain his tears.
Aunt PhylHs, with her sad, sweet face ;
and I, with an aching, sorrowful heart ;
and, lastly, Mr. Radcliffe, in his white
surplice which he had brought in his black
leather bag.

It was a strangely touching scene.

I had received the sacrament many times
before, and have done so frequently since;
but never have I felt so impressed as I did
upon that occasion.

Miriam, I want you to raise me," said
the dying woman.

Ait Phyllis sprang up, but fell back to
allow me to fulfil the office as requested,
and I gave her a grateful look.

Now I am ready," she whispered, and
the Communion service commenced.

Each in our turn we received the holy
elements, my stepmother being communicated
with last. The service was ended. A
sweet smile lighted up the pale face. A
smile that never faded, and before we had
arisen from our knees we knew that she
was dead !

'k ^ * ¥:

When I was showing Mr. Radcliffe out,
a tall slight figure suddenly stood between
us — it was my sister Florence, and she was
very pale. She lifted her blue eyes to the
vicar s face, and her words came very low,
but I heard them.

"Mr. RadclifFe, I have come to ask you
to forgive me." I did not wait for Ris
answer, but slipped away and left those
two alone to make their peace.

And the black carriages came and departed,
and the funeral was over, and life
lay before us — life without Lady Lavinia.

My father went daily to his office as
usual.

Sir Gordon came constantly to see his
fiancee. There were walks over to Faresham
to call at the manor house. There were
drives with dear old Shamrock, and we had
Aunt Phyllis always with us, the spirit of
it all.

But one day there came a cloud. My aunt
received news that her mother was unwell,
and told us she must leave us to go home and
nurse her. It seemed to me that the sun
had ceased to shine, so dear had she become
to us. She had taken no one's place — she

had assumed no authority, but she was the

*' oiled feather " in our establishment, and

caused all to go smoothly. We little

knew the power she had over us until she

was gone, so quietly and unobtrusively had

she kept each one of ns in his or her own

especial groove.

Since my poor stepmother's death we had

had family prayers daily. Aunt Phyllis had

organized them, and I had promised her to

continue them in her absence. I was still

the housekeeper, but she had advised me,

and had overlooked the bills and accounts,

and had helped me in all my arrangements,

and the state of affairs had visibly improved

under her supervision. But most of all,

perhaps, her influence was seen upon the

two grandmothers. Aunt Phyllis certainly

understood the management of old women ;

and now she was going away, and it came

upon me that I should do very badly with-vol.
II. L

out her. Under my aunt's advice, I had been
learning to be more methodical, to give regular
hours to the various tasks which I had to
fulfil. Perhaps there was nothing I disliked
more than the sock mending for the boys, yet
I did not shrink from it; and every week I
had all the socks and stockings and cleared
them off in the hour between dinner and
tea, just mending what I could, and leaving
the rest for another day.

Aunt Phyllis was gone, and everything
in our little home seemed out of joint.

Our two grandmothers were troublesome,
the boys unmanageable. Sir Charteris remained
in his study, refusing to be disturbed,
even when the bell rang for prayers
at the usual hour, so it devolved upon me
to read them. It was the first time I had
attempted it, and 1 was somewhat nervous,
but I got through the chapter composedly,
and all might have gone well but that

Trevelyan, unfortunately, just as we knelt
down to prayers, espied my stocking basket,
and as I commenced to read, it was suddenly
banged upside down upon my head, and I
was, so to speak, connected, while the socks,
mended and unmended, fell around me in a
shower, covering the book and table, while
a titter of amusement spread through the
room.

I let it die out, remaining as unmoved as
I could among them, then proceeded in a
firm voice, altogether disregarding the tugs
at my skirts, and the grimaces with which
my young brother chose to honour me ; but
I felt sore at heart, for it proved to me, their
elder though I was, I had no authority
whatever among them.

When the servants had retired, I turned
to Trevelyan, as sternly as I knew how.
'' Why ? " I asked, " why did you make such
a mockery of prayers ? You never behaved

L 2

SO when Aunt Phyllis was here and read
them''

*' That is quite another pair of shoes,"
replied my brother irreverently, "but it
strikes me I shall, whenever you do parson.
Why you are not so mach older than weare.
I don't see why you should preach tous."


I do not preach to you, but I will tell
you what, Trevelyan, Aunt Phyllis charged
me to continue family prayer, and I do not
mean to give it up for your pranks. Therefore,
if papa does not do so, either Bob or I
shall read them, night and morning."

For a moment, the boy looked at me
defiantly, but I laid my hand upon his arm
and spoke to him quietly. *' Have you forgotten
the morning your mother died, Tre ?
I think that was the first time we ever
really all prayed together. Do you think
if she can look down upon us, she

would like to see you behave as you did
to-night 1 "

For a moment he hung his head, then
looked in my face. " I think my mother was
fond of you, Miriam, I won't do it again."

"That is right, dear," I returned, "you
have made me much happier," and I was
about to leave him when he detained me ;
his eyes were upraised to mine.

Miriam, do you really think my mother
can see all I do ? "

"IbeHeveso, Être."

Then how could she be happy if I were
wicked 1 "

I did not know how to answer him,
and wished he had asked the question of
Aunt Phyllis. " Doubtless she would be
grieved dear, and I am sure it must be a
great joy to her if she can know that her
only child is striving to do right ; but I
suppose the happiness of those in paradise

is so great, that actual sorrow cannot reach
them, although we are bound to believe
that their happiness is not perfected ; perhaps
the longing after those on earth is the
one thing lacking to those who ivciUr

I say, Miriam, I wish you weren't a
girl," said my brother, confidentially, " you
would have made a good parson. I'll tell
you what, you talk like Aunt Phyllis, so I
won't disturb you again at prayers."

4^-Tr * *

Shortly after, the afternoon's post brought
me back one of my MSS., and I was sorely
disappointed. I was sitting with the
editor's letter in my hand, reading it for
the third time, and tears had gathered
thickly in my lashes, when I was aware
that the door had opened, and that someone
had entered the room, but not wishing
my eyes to be seen, I did not turn round.
A hand was laid upon my shoulder. I could

not mistake that touch, and started up at
once —

"Aunt Phyllis, where have you come
from ? Who ever expected you ? "

"Did you think I was likely to desert
you, dear?" she asked, kindly, "living
within fifty miles of you. • I have come to
see how you are getting on ? "

"Rather badly without you, auntie," I
replied, smiling through my tears.

Miriam, dear," said she, " you are crying.
What is your trouble ? "

'' It is not a great one," I replied, " only
a pin prick."

Sometimes pin pricks are harder to bear
than greater sorrows," she answered, " because
we think them small ones, and do not
realize that we should bear them bravely.
We commend a man who has a leg taken
off without a moan, but think little courage
is required to have a tooth out, and therefore

give no praise for it. Your pin prick may be
only the tooth, but still you suffer, I can
see."

'^ I fear, auntie, it is my pride which feels
most. The truth is, that I have imagined
I have the gift of writing, and now I find I
have made a mistake, that is all ? "

*' How have you found that out ? " asked
my aunt, quietly.

I have put it to the proof, auntie. I
have tried half the publishers in London,
and they will have nothing to do with me."

How many times have you sent your
story up Miriam V

Five or six."

Well, take heart, there are many more
publishers than ten or twelve in the great
metropolis; and now let me see this tale*
Shall I criticize it for you ? I have some
knowledge of these sort of things, being a
writer myself."

You ? Oh, auntie, what do you write 1
and I never knew it, never even heard of
your books ! "

' I daresay not dear, for there are so
many authors ; but I do not write under my
own name, so you would not know, even
had you read my books."

But Aunt PhyUis, if you are an author,
I shall not like you to look at my poor productions."


Why, child, if they will not bear the
criticisms of love, which they will receive
from me, how are they to stand editorial
buffets, and the brunt of public opinion 1 "

I had scarcely considered that auntie ;
here is the MS. , take it away with you, and
look it over when you have nothing better
to do."

** That I will, dear child, and probably I
may be able to assist you ; but you must
promise me not to mind it, should my ver-diet

not be flattering ; the best way to help
young embryo authors is by showing them
their faults plainly at the first, so that they
may not repeat them."

Only a few days passed over before I
received a letter back from Aunt Phyllis —

My Dearest Niece,

The subject of your story is a telling one, but
you might have handled it better ; in some parts your
writing is loose and disjointed, and altogether too verbose.
Brevity is a great thing in composition. Let
your sentences be terse and crisp, and never hammer at
any subject ; and when once the interest of your plot
is over, bring your story to an end. I have re-written
your tale as / should have done it, and you will see it
is condensed to half its original length. In all short
stories extraneous matter should be set aside ; you may
venture upon it in a novel, however, if you write one.
I like your language; it is pure and good, with a poetic
ring about it, and I see no reason why you should not
succeed. Alter the MS. which I return you in your
own words, and to your own taste, and I will send it
to one of my publishers who edits a magazine, and I amin
hopes that he will accept it. If I were to send it in
its present condition it would only serve to shake his

confidence in your powers. Trusting that you are all
well, and wishing you every success,

I am ever, dearest Miriam,

Your loving

"Aunt Phyllis'

Very earnestly I studied her letter, and
my story as she had rendered it. It was pain
and grief to me to cut away all the " asides''
over which I had taken so much trouble,
and which I thought so pretty ; but I did
it, sorrowing over each sentence as I went
on, and when all was done, although I still
grieved for those ideas which would never
now have birth, I was bound to confess
that the whole tale was far more crisp
and less lagging, and had fewer bald
places than before ; for even my inexperienced
ear could detect them as I read
the story aloud to myself, just to hear
how it sounded.

Once more, after much care and trouble,
it went forth to seek a home.

Aunt Phyllis wrote that I had greatly-improved
it ; then I heard no more for a
month, when I received a letter in an unknown
hand, bearing upon it this legend —

Office of Piccadilly Magazine'*

I opened it with trembling fingers, and
what was my joy to find my MS. was
accepted.

That was my first piece of success, and
it was, I felt, entirely due to Aunt Phyllis.

My small production was liked. Several
papers which reviewed the magazine made
complimentary comments upon it — said the
style was fresh and new, and hoped that,
unknown though the writer was at present,
the public might yet see more of her
works.

After that I never sent a MS. into the

editorial world without having received my
aunt's opinion upon it ; and I am fully-aware
that this saved me many a refusal,
for she was an authority on these matters,
and allowed me only to offer such things as
she deemed suitable to each periodical.

And at this time I began my first novel.
No one knew of it — not even Aunt Phyllis.
I meant to dedicate it to her, and not tolet
her know my secret until it was completed.


Those who subscribe to circulating libraries,
and skim through three volumes
a-day, little dream of all the labour which
has been expended on them, nor stay to
consider whether they themselves could
have done as well, when they pick the
work to pieces so ruthlessly. I would far
rather be criticized by those who are judges
than those who think themselves so, and
are not.

Then I had to thank my aunt for another
thing. She had greatly assisted me in my
duties as housekeeper, showing me that todo
things with a method was of help in
every way ; and although I had now far
more work on my shoulders than of old, I
found I had more time in which to do it.

Aunt Phyllis did not leave me to get on
alone as I could, but every week or two
the sweet face would appear amongst us,
and then she would draw me away and
inquire tenderly into all my small troubles
and difficulties, and her clear, calm judgment
always showed me a way out of them
all, and left me a happier, better Miriam
than she had found.

I am sure it is the best thing in the
world for a girl to have a loving, sensible
woman ready and willing to give her sympathy.
Troubles and botheration are
always lessened in the telling ; and the

opinion of one unblessed by personal feeling
is truly valuable when it is that of one we
can trust.

I know that those private talks with my
dear Aunt Phyllis were more helpful to me
than anything else, and I cannot tell how I
should have got on without them.

They were then the green spots in my
daily life. I had one great cause of thankfulness,
that Herbert Armstrong gave meno
blame for not having accepted his offer.
He had written me a kind and manly letter,
telling me that he would not have me do
wrong, even for the happiness of my lifelong
companionship, and that no one could part
our love, however many miles might lay
between us ; and with that certainty he
would be content, and would wait God's
time for the joy that he felt in his heart
would yet come for us. And I tried to
believe it too ; but it was somewhat hard

to be parted from him I loved, for no reason
but my father's whim and unjust dislike to
Colonel Armstrong, while my younger sister
was allowed to be engaged, and had her
lover s daily companionship.

Sometimes I felt hard, and inclined to
murmur, but the sight of Aunt Phyllis
drove away all such thoughts, and I set my
face steadfastly to do my duty, and remembered
with a thankful heart how very many
blessings I had still left to me, even though
one was at present denied me. It was my
thorn in the flesh which God had seen fit
to lay upon me ; but He had given me
grace to bear it, and He had sent Aunt
Phyllis to help me.

CHAPTER XIII.

It was settled that Mrs. Armatage, who

was now convalescent, should come to us

with Aunt Phyllis for a change of air, and

they were to bring their maid with them.

Since my stepmother s death I had shared

Florence's room, as in the old days at

Devonshire Terrace, for she had asked me

not to leave her again, and I was glad to

stay with her, both for her sake and my

own. Florence was not the strong girl of a

year or two ago. She was far more pale

and pensive, and wore an air of delicacy

which it grieved me to see ; still, though
VOL. II. M

nervous and sometimes irritable, there
seemed to be no actual illness about her. She
would not see Mr. Lyndhurst as a doctor
but I begged him for all that to keep his
eye upon her, and he did, coming and going
as a friend among us. I was personally
glad not to be obliged to return to the
gabled room where I had suffered so much
in silence, lest I should make the rest of the
family uncomfortable.

The chamber in which Lady Lavinia had
died, and the dressing-room attached to ifc,
had by Sir Charteris' orders been closed
since that time, but now the light of day
was once more to be admitted to them.
He gave directions that they should be
fresh papered and whitewashed, and prepared
for the occupation of Aunt Phyllis
and her mother, while the gabled attic
was to be got ready for their maid. About
the last order I felt uncomfortable, and

ventured to suggest to my father that she
had perhaps better sleep in one of our servant's
rooms ; but he stopped me at once,
and desired me to have his wishes carried
out.

Knowing what wretched nights I had
myself spent there I felt sorry, but of course
obeyed. Our visitors came, and I saw my
maternal grandmother for the first time.
She was a sweet old lady, with pure white
hair, and still wore her widow's cap,
although her husband had died before I
was born, and I soon grew to love her
nearly as well as I did Aunt PhylHs.

It was delightful to see her set herself to
amuse Lady Costelion and Lady Trevelyan,
and before she had been a week among us
she had taught them both netting and
knitting, and to do crochet.

Great baskets of soft coloured wools were

now to be seen in their rooms, and various

M 2

antimacassars, socks, and other useful
articles began to grow under their dear old
fingers. Grandmamma Costelion occasionally
essayed to ride her hobby horse of learning
; and Lady Trevelyan sometimes commenced
to complain, and made her moan
over her grievances, but not often, for Mrs.
Armatage had the happy knack of reading
and knitting at the same time, and she
generally read aloud to the other two, books
which served to enchain their sympathies.
And often her soft voice proved a lullaby
too ; and if you peeped in you might seethe
dear old heads nodding in company,
but they always awoke when she ceased to
read, declaring that they were wide awake
and had not lost a word, no matter how
many pages had been unheard by them ;
but my grandmother only smiled, and went
on with perfect good humour.

After all, Mrs. Armatage's maid did not

come with her, her mistress having given
her a few days hoHday ; but now she arrived
and took possession of her apartments.
She was not a strong looking woman, and
seemed nervous, so much so that I went to
Aunt Phyllis with my trouble.

Auntie," I said, " I hope your maid
will be comfortable in that gabled room,
but I confess I used to hear strange noises
there'*

"Did yon, dear?" she replied, quietly;
no doubt it was the wind in the trees.
It is a nice large room, and I daresay
Jackson will make herself happy in it."

There seemed nothing more to say, yet I
did make a further attempt.

I suppose you don't believe in houses
being haunted, auntie ? "

I really do not, Miriam," she returned,
with a smile, " so pray do not tell me that
you have a pet ghost."

'^ No," I answered, laughing in spite of
myself, " hardly that ; but once I thought
I had seen one," and I told her the story of
the white figure I saw wandering in the
garden in the moonlight.

And what did it turn out to be, dear ?"
Well ! after all, it was only a poor girl
who was delirious, who had nob been sufficiently
closely watched, and had left her
room, and escaped out in the night. It is
a sad story ; for it seems a great friend of
hers had once lived and died in this house
a lad who had been her playfellow and
her boy-love, and in her delirium her mind
had gone back to the old days, when they
had been companions, and she had walked
miles to find him, dressed only in her night
clothes, with her bare feet, and perhaps
she has found her boy lover, for the chill
she took that night killed her, poor girl.
She was a patient of Mr. Lyndhurst s, who

was greatly distressed about it. He tells
me she was very lovely, and not of age ; in
another month she would have inherited a
large and beautiful estate left her by an
uncle. Her being thus cut off was very
sad, and her parents are heart-broken.
The blame seems to rest with a nurse
whom they got down to attend her from
one of the London Hospitals."

'•' Ah 1 it does not do to trust the lives
of our dear ones to those whom we have not
proved!' said Aunt Phyllis. '' The only
strangers whom I would so trust are the
nursing Sisters of Mercy. I believe they
are really reliable, for they work for love
and not for money."

So Jackson entered upon her tenancy of
the gabled room. The night was calm and
still, and the woman, in answer to my
inquiry the next morning, told me she had
rested very well, and I felt relieved ; and

when two or three nights had passed over
I came to the conclusion that the sounds
which had so disturbed me must have been
the creation of my own fancy. Then followed
a day, dark and lowering; an unusual
blackness had overspread the atmosphere,
obliging us to light our lamps earlier than
was our custom. The wind had arisen to a 1
half gale, and came howling in ugly pain-suggesting
gusts down our chimneys, and
sighing around our house, and we all felt
glad when bedtime came, and we were
safely in our own rooms ; but we had
scarcely laid our heads upon our pillows,
when a sharp cry rang out, startling us all
from our chambers like frightened rabbits
in a warren, and ere we could reach the
gabled attic, from whence the noise had
proceeded, we met Jackson flying down the
stairs with the speed of terror. Aunt
Phyllis laid her hand quietly upon the

frightened woman's arm, and drew her into
her own room, leaving all the assembled
household standing there, in far from
becoming, if picturesque, costumes, and after
a few minutes she returned among us.

Miriam, go in to Jackson, please, she has
lead nightmare, and can't persuade herself
that she is now awake."

She then spoke a few words to Sir Charteris,
begging him to send every one to bed
as nothing at all was the matter, and when
they were dispersed she came back to me,
and helped me to quiet the terrified woman.
But nothing would persuade her to return
to her bed, and at last we meade her lie
down upon the sofa in Mrs. Armatage's
room to rest, and I crept back to my sister,
feeling far from comfortable. In the morning
Jackson was so poorly that we sent for
Mr. Lyndhurst, who pronounced her to be
suffering from derangement of the nervous

system, brought on by some sudden fright,
upon which my aunt and I told him all we
knew about the gabled chamber.

"I certainly did hear some strange
sounds there myself the night you were
alarmed at my poor little ghost, Miss
Miriam, but I had forgotten all about them.
Now, however, I must ask you to have the
bed made up for me, for I have determined
to try a night there myself"

So the room was prepared, and Mr. Lynd-
hurst slept there, but not a sound came to
disturb him. It was evident the nocturnal
visitor, whatever it was, did not feel itself
equal to scaring the doctor.

Nothing would, however, make Jackson
again resume possession of the apartment,
and she slept with one of our servants instead.

We were all truly sorry when the
visit of Aunt Phyllis and her dear old
mother was ended, but the time came at

length for them to return home. Our life
after this had but few breaks, but one
stands out in my memory in rather a startling
manner. I had gone over to see my
dear old Miss Caroline, and was enjoying
one of my usual sweet confidential talks
with her, when my brother Bob rushed in.
^' Miriam, come home, Lady Trevelyan is
dying." That proved to be an exaggeration,
but I found the poor old woman in a sad
state, and both Mr. RadclifFe and Mr. Lynd-
hurst with her. She had asked for some
beer at luncheon, and then had fancied it
was sour, and *had sent her grandson up to
her medicine-chest to bring her her bottle
of carbonate of soda, and he, either by
mistake or out of mischief, had brought her
tartar emetic, which she had stirred inlarge
quantities into her ale, in all innocence,
and the consequence was that the
DOor old lady was soon taken very ill.

And never to this day have we been
able to make that boy tell us the truth about
it. T verily believe he thinks whenever
Lady Trevelyan dies, her demise will be
traced back to that dose of tartar emetic,
and that his neck will be in danger, for the
moment the subject is mentioned, he looks
as grave as a judge, refuses to answer any
questions, and generally leaves the room.

We could afford to laugh when she was
well again, but she undoubtedly thought
her last hour had come, and sent off at once,
messengers for me, the doctor, and the
clergyman, and a telegram for Aunt Phyllis.
After this corLtretemj[)s we kept Lady Trevelyan's
medicine chest locked, that was
all ; and our lives went on in the old
daily round as usual.

Whether my sister Florence was happy
in her engagement, and really loved the
man of her choice, was a puzzle to me.

Sometimes I thought that she had after all
missed happiness, yet Sir Gordon was a
very fond and attentive lover.

She had been kindly if not altogether
affectionately received by the Grahams,
who were, however, it was rumoured, disappointed
that their son and heir had not
chosen a wife with money — for the rest,
she was all they could desire, well born
and beautiful ; yet my sister often looked
so sad that I could but wonder at her,
and many a time I asked what ailed her.
*that is the question, Miriam, that I
am for ever asking myself," she answered
with a faint sigh. '* I have every thing to
make me happy, yet I cannot feel satisfied."

But surely your engagement is all you
could wish," I began —

"Miriam, why question me?" she returned,
irritably. " I do notknow, how can
I tell — how can any girl tell whether she

will find her lover suited to her when he
becomes her husband. It is all chance — I
may be happy or I may not."

I looked at her in dismay.

Florence," I said earnestly, " if I were
you, I would ascertain my feelings better
before I ventured to marry ; suppose afterwards
you found you did not care for him''

Yes ! that is a pleasant supposition,"
she laughed nervously, " but I imagine we
all have to stand our chance of that. Did
not some one liken matrimony to a sack in
which a number of poisonous snakes are
dropped, and only one or two harmless ones.
You have to take your chance which you
draw, if you go in for the lottery at all."

I think Sir Gordon would hardly be
flattered if he could hear you, Flo," I
replied half sadly, " and I must say I think
you have chosen well — your lover seems tome
all that you can desire."

Would you have accepted him, Miriam,
had he asked you V

No ; but then''

'then— what r'

'nothing, only that is so different."

"I can't see it — unless your affections
are otherwise engaged."

Suppose they are dear," I replied, a
warm glow creeping over my cheek and
brow; and then I told her all about Herbert
Armstrong and our joint love.

And you never mentioned it to me,
Miriam," she exclaimed, resentfully. "Well!
I wish you had for your own sake, for I
might have helped you with papa. I flatter
myself I have some influence with him."

I acknowledge that, dear, but this prejudice
of our father's has been long seated.
You know he never liked the Armstrongss
from the time when they first became our
neighbours."

Dut why ? was there ever anything
against them V

^' Never. I will answer for that. I
I believe it was simply because they did
not belong to one of our county families."

That sort of pride was all very well
once — when we were at Kingsholme Abbey,
but noil since we have been inhabitants of
No. 3, Devonshire Terrace, it is time papa
laid aside his aristocratic prejudices," she
said bitterly.

"The Armstrongss are of a good old
family," I asserted, " although their line of
ancestors may not be as long as that of the
Costelions."

Did they tell you so ?" asked my sister

with elevated eyebrows, " because if so, I

have lost my respect for them. Let people

feel as much family pride as they please,

but don't let them talk about it."

You don't know them as well as I do,

Flo," I returned with a smile, '* or you
would not have asked the question, but
dear old Miss Caroline has told me all
about them. Herbert's grandfather and
the Montagues' father were great friends."

Ah ! no wonder you are so fond of going
there, Miriam," said my sister, slyly. And
then she began to laugh.

"What is your joke?" I questioned in
surprise. " I have not seen or heard one."

No ! of course not, but I had a vision
of your old Noah's father ! he must have
been a curious looking old creature — fancy
a still more antiquated Mr. Montague !"

*' I daresay we should stare at him if we
met him in Regent Street now," I acknowledged
; " but doubtless we should do the
same if any of our own ancestors could
return with the dress and manners of the
days that are gone ; yet, to my mind, the

world has not improved, and every year
VOL. ir. N

I think people grow more mannerless.
Young England ' is not like ^ Old England"'


"Perhaps you are right, Miriam, or it
may be that we mix in less good society
than we used to do/^ said Florence indifferently
; "" but I agree with you that three
quarters of the people one meets are perfect
beasts, and, as to men, why I simply hate
the sight of them'

'that is a sweeping assertion, Flo," I
laughed ; '' but, fortunately, I know you
don't mean all you say, or it would be a
bad look out for Sir Gordon."

She only lifted a pair of weary eyes to
mine, and answered carelessly, "I don't
suppose my opinion would affect him much."

Not affect him much ? What could she
mean 1

Flo," I said earnestly, " I do hope you
and Sir Gordon have not quarrelled V

'* Quarrelled ! oh! dear no, we are both
too well bred for that' she replied scornfully
; " and if we were not, I am sure we
should not take the trouble'

I rose and put my arms about her.
*' Flo, dear, tell me your sorrow, I am
sure you have one, perhaps I can help you.
I have found out for myself how much
relief is given by opening one's heart to
those who really love us, and I am sure
you know that I love you. I see you are
unhappy — what is it '?"

I am certainly not in ecstatic spirits,"
she said coldly, submitting to, but not
returning my embrace ; " but I make no
complaint. I am happy enough. Certainly
more so than I was in Devonshire
Terrace. I verily believe had that life
gone on, I should have married Mr.
Radcliffe, or Mr. Lyndhurst, or any one

else v/ho might have asked me."

N 2

"I don't think Mr. Lyndhurst is a
marrying man," I returned with a smile,
** and as to Mr. Radcliffe, poor fellow, he
would have been glad enough to propose to
you certainly ; but, as regards poverty, that
would surely have been out of the frying-pan
into the fire, if I may use so vulgar a simile. '^

*' You are not like me, Miriam. You are
of a quieter and doubtless a letter temperament,
but there are times when I have felt,
and still do feel, that any change would be
acceptable ; but do not let us talk about
my affairs any longer. It was too bad of
papa to object to your engagement ; he
would not have ventured to do it v/ith
me, if he had, I should have kicked over
the traces, and taken my own course."

And have regretted it when too late,"
I replied. " No, Flo, it is my duty to obey
my father, and to regard his wishes, and I
will try to do so."

Regarding Lis wishes is one thing, and
submitting to tyranny is another," said my
sister, hotly. '' I hate injustice, and in
your place I should have let papa know my
opinion."

"No, Flo, I do not think you would. I hope
you would have had more wisdom than that."

Grandmamma Costelion had been asleep
during our conversation with her lap full of
coloured wools, but now she awoke with a
deeper nod than usual, in time to hear my
remark, which called for another from her,
not in her own words, but in the form of a
quotation —

The youth, who led by Wisdom's guiding hand
Seeks Virtue's Temple and her law reveres.
He, he alone in Honour's dome shall stand,
Crown'd with Rewards and rais'd above his Peers.
Recording annals shall preserve his name
And give his Virtues to immortal Fame."

'miriam, have you read Dudley upon 'The

duty of endeavouring to obtain Wisdom,

and the Use and Importance of it ?' "

'' I am sure Miriam is wise enough
already, grand mamma," laughed my sister ;
*' for goodness sake don't tell her to learn
any more about it."

'but, my dear Florence'' proceeded
Lady Costelion, gravely, "in Dudley's
words — ' Wisdom is delectable and satisfactory,
it is like light, pleasant to behold,
casting a sprightly lustre and diffusing a
benign influence about it'"

And you think if I were wise I might
do the same, do you gran ? "

Undoubtedly you would, my dear ;
but it is not wise to be disrespectful, and
grand mamma would sound better from
your lips than gran — all abbreviations
show a want of appreciation of the character
of the person addressed. You
might respect the man you call John, but
certainly not one who permitted you to
call him Johnny."

All that is a matter of opinion, grand-mammas'
said my sister, argumentative,
"Now I, for instance, should prefer the
Johnny."

Grandmamma, shall I read to you ? " I
broke in, fearing a dispute between these
two somewhat contradictory people.

No, my dear, your father told us that
Lumley might drive Lady Trevelyan and
me out this afternoon. We are ofoinp; into
the town shopping."

What, to-day I " I asked, *' why there is
a fog and an east wind " (for autumn had
closed us in once more).

And suppose there is," returned Lady
Costelion, " what of that ? I hope there
are no delicate lungs in our family."

Indeed I hope not," I replied, and without
my will my eyes turned to my sister's
pale face, " but all doctors will tell you
that the east wind has in it something

inimical to life. See how it sears all vegetation,
and I am sure it is equally harmful
to human beings, and exerts a most baneful
influence on our organizations. It seems
to dry and wither one, and strong as I am,
I do not care to be exposed to it more than
I can help."

*' You must have been talking to Mr.
Lyndhurst upon the subject, surely,
Miriam'' said Florence scornfully ; " the
east wind won't keep me in, I can promise
you."

I certainly have heard him express
similar opinions, Flo," I laughed, " but it is
hard that you will credit me with none of
my own ; however, I will forgive you if you
will remain in doors to-day."

Indeed, I cannot ; I have promised
Gordon to meet him at the Hamilton s' this
afternoon for lawn tennis. I did not know
papa had made other arrangements for the

carriage ; however I can walk there, and
Gordon must drive me back."

"What! play lawn tennis such a clay as
this I Why the grass is a perfect swamp,
surely Sir Gordon would not let you."

He would scarcely venture to stop my
doing that or anything else I wished to do,
I imagine," she answered proudly.

"Poor Sir Gordon," I laughed. "Florence,
I fear you intend to be the grey mare, but
don't draw the rein too tightly, especially
before marriage. Still, to please me, dear,
if you really will not stay at home, do wrap
up well. When people are robust I daresay
they can stand the east wind, and most
other things, but you are not over strong
just now, and would be almost sure to take
a chill."

"If I do, I do," said my sister, "but I
am not going to wrap myself up till I look
Hke an Egyptian mummy, I can tell you."

Then Lady Trevelyan joined us, and
Florence turned to her at once, " Grand-mamma
has just been telling us that you
think of driving into the town ; if you do
you may as well order your coffin, according
to Miriam ; she says if any of us go out this
afternoon Ave shall be dead men, or rather
women."

"Good gracious ! my dear. Why 1^' she
gasped, *' then I'm sure I won't go !"

Florence, like the poets, takes license,
dear Lady Trevelyan ; but I should not
advise you to go out in this east wind."

Oh ! is the wind in the east ?" she exclaimed,
*When I am sure I will stay at
home. Dear Lady Costelion, you will excuse
me, I know ; one death in a house
is enough. Poor Lavinia — poor child V^

Florence rose and left the room, and I
followed her, hoping yet to dissuade her
from going. " I think, Miriam, Lady Trevelyan

is somewhat like the old woman
who wept when her son died at seventy,
and said, ' Poor child, poor child, I knew I
should never rear him Poor Lady Lavinia
was nearer fifty than forty'

'still she was her child, Florence'' I
said, softly ; and I changed the subject, for
I was distressed to see my sister in so hard
a mood.

"I shall make grand mamma drop me,"
she said, at length, "as Lady Tre velyan is
not going."

"Is that why you scared her with the
east wind," I laughed.

"Of course it was; do you think I
should have taken the trouble without an
object."

Florence," I said, impatiently, " I hope
you do not talk like this to Sir Gordon ; he
might think you mean these things. You
do yourself a great injustice."

She did not answer me, but got out Ler
hat and began to dress.

'rand you really mean to go V
I positively intend to do so."
Well, dear, pray put on strong boots."
*' I shall not change those I have on,"
she replied. Nor would she. What Alas
the matter with her "? She was like the (eld
Florence of Devonshire Terrace. So the
two wilful ones drove off. Lady Trevelyan,
after thanking me again and again for my
timely warning as to the cold wind, went
to sleep, and I crept quietly away and sat
down to my writing ; but I had not done
much when Bob rushed into the room.
Miriam, congratulate me," he cried, excitedly,
'' I am going to college. My father
at last sees his way to affording it, and,
thanks to Mr. Eadchffe, I have kept up
my work fairly, and have no fears about
my '' little go.' "

"Oh! Bob, I am so glad," I replied,
giving him a hearty kiss. " I have so
wished for this, but I feared it might never
be; and have you decided upon your future
profession ?"

"No, Miriam, but I intend to be one of
the workers of the world, whatever path I
tread, rest assured of that."

I cZo feel certain of it, my dear brother.
I mean to be very proud of you."

"Well, I hope I shall never disgrace
you, at any rate, Miriam ; but now, old
girl, I have heaps of things I want you todo
for me, so put your scribbling away ;
you see, dear, you have to be a mother tome
as well as a sister."

I willingly laid my writing aside, and
was ready when my brother came back
with his arms full of clothes.

Look here, Miriam, both these pockets
are all torn to pieces ; I wish you would

just put a stitch to them — it icon take a
minute''

I looked up in his face and smiled. " I
will do them with pleasure, Bob, but I
can't get them done in a minute, nor yet
an hour, for I must make and put in new
pockets."

Well, you girls do know how to make
a job of a thing ! Why don't you stitch
up the holes ? "

'' Because the pockets are rotten."

"Ah ! well, as I have not to pay for your
work by the time, I don't care. I shall
just give you a kiss when you have done,
and shall expect you to consider yourself
well paid; but I say, Miriam, do you think
you could make me some trousers?"

"Trousers!" I echoed, aghast. "Wliy
that's tailor's work !"

Oh ! only white flannels — cricketing
bags. I'm sure you could do them."

"I can but try," I said, dubiously; 'only
I must have a pattern to cut them out by."

"All right ; you can rip up an old pair
and allow plenty for shrinking."

So, added to my other work, I had to
turn tailor. Bob walked off to the town
that very afternoon and procured the materials,
and the next morning I cut out the
"bags," which took me a long while, not
being accustomed to work of that sort.

By lunch time I had stitched the seams
with my little sewing machine, when Bob
came in. " That's right, Miriam," he exclaimed.
" Why you have done them
quickly."

"Done them!" I echoed; " why I have
hardly begun them yet ! they will take mea
day or two to finish."

My brother stared at me as if I had lost
my senses. " Well, you girls do make
mountains out of mole hills !" he said, sententiously.

"Why, you've only got to
turn down the top and turn up the ancles,
and there you are !"

I dare say you are," I laughed, and we
went in to lunch ; but my thoughts soon
left Bob's nether garments, for Florence
would eat nothing, and was looking white
and miserable, and from time to time she
shivered violently.

'what is the matter, Flo 1" I asked,
anxiously.

I have caught a cold, I suppose," she
answered, sharply. 'now, Miriam, cannot
you say, ' I told you so'"

But I did not feel inclined to say anything,
for I saw her short, c^uick breathing,
and I felt very unhappy.

I watched for my father's coming home
that afternoon, and waylaid him before he
entered the house. " Papa," I said, " my
sister Florence seems very poorly. I shall

be glad if you will let me send for Mr.
Lyndhurst."

'' I have not paid his last bill yet,
Miriam, so I would not call him in without
necessity ; but — "

'will you go and see Florence, papa?
Watch her and judge for yourself. I believe
she is going to be ill, and, indeed, she
has long looked delicate."

"Why, then, have you not told me?"
asked Sir Charteris, sharply. " You are in
the place of a mother to her."

If I have not worried you upon the
subject, papa, it has not been for want of
thought ; but when there seems to be
nothing really the matter, what is one to
say or do ? I have asked Mr. Lyndhurst
to watch her for me as a friend, and he
has done so."

Why for you f what am I to understand
by that ?"

VOL. II. O

Simply that we a?^e friends," I replied,
raising my eyes fearlessly to his.

Then he passed into the house and went
to the drawing-room. Florence was lying
on the sofa, but started up at his entrance.
Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes bright,
and her hands burning. He spoke to her
kindly, and left the room, and as soon as I
could I went after him.

You can send for Lyndhurst," he said,
and I quickly obeyed him.

That was the beginning of our new
troubles. The doctor came at once, for my
letter to him was urgent, and he ordered
my sister to bed immediately.

The following morning he came early,
and was closeted some time with my father,
after which I was called down.

Miriam, your sister has inflammation of
the lungs and typhoid fever. I am going
to telegraph for Aunt Phyllis. It is a

question whether the latter is catching ;
but if you have any fear of it you can goto
Mrs. Armatage, and we can employ a
nurse."

I have no fear whatever."

"And you wish to stay ?"

"Undoubtedly. I would not leave my
sister on any account."

You are right, Miriam," said my father,
with emotion, " and you are a good girl
and a dutiful daughter, Florence is very
dear to me, and I would rather trust her to
you than to a stranger."

"I will do my best for her, papa," I
whispered, tears coming into my eyes ;
but she is in higher hands than ours.
All we can do is to pray that she may be
spared to us, and use every means in our
power to ease her sufferings."

He took my hand in his, and seemed
about to speak to me, and I fancied that

o 2

it was of Herbert he intended to say something,
but instead, he stooped and kissed
me, and I knew that I was dismissed.

Those were dreary days that followed —
days of acute anxiety. My poor sister s
short hacking cough was incessant and
wearing ; but otherwise I do not think her
sufferings were very great, although her
irritability was painful and trying in the
extreme, for nothing we could do for her
was right. Mr. Radcliffe was often by her
bedside, though she treated him with scant
courtesy ; however, knowing as we did that
she was scarcely responsible for her actions,
none of us in any way resented them or
her words. All we wanted was to see her
better, and Mr. Lyndhurst's face was very
serious as day followed day and her prostration
became greater. He ordered the
house to be kept very quiet, and Mr. Radcliffe
took Trevelyan home to stay with him.

Bob should have started for Cambridge,
but he would not leave home till all danger
was past, and I found him a great help
and support, ever patient and kind. Dear
old Bob, I felt sure during that time that
he was growing into a fine character, and I
never had cause to change my mind.

Mr. Lyndhurst, when my poor sister was
at the worst, had taken me by both hands,
and told me of her danger.

I think it is only right you should
know the truth*' he said, kindly. " I do
not consider a medical man is justified in
withholding it."

Then I raised my eyes to his pitifully.

Oh ! do save her, Mr. Lyndhurst," I
pleaded. " We are all so proud of our
beauty. I think it would break papa's
heart to lose her. Is there nothing else
you can do ? Nothing ? "

You have more in your hands than I

have now, Miss Miriam. In a case like
this the nurses can do more than the doctor.
Constant nourishment is the only thing to
keep the feeble spark of life alight. Every
hour, at least, she must be fed. Beef-tea,
beaten up eggs. Brand's extract, and Champagne
must be our medicines for the
present."

And it is so difficult to persuade her to
take anything," I murmured, sadly.

Then gentle force must be used," he
replied. " It is the only chance."

At length she slept. That sleep was the
turning point, and gradually she came back
to VIS, as it were.

During her illness Sir Gordon had shown
much feeling, and had called many times a
day to inquire for her when she was in
danger ; but she never asked for him, and
when I occasionally mentioned his visits,
she turned from me impatiently. In every

spare moment I had had to attend to Bob's
clothes, knowing that everything must be
ready for him to start off on his new life at
once ; and greatly as I felt I should miss
him, I was glad, for his sake, to speed him
away. But when all was done, a great
wave of desolation seemed to sweep over
me, and the whole world to slide from
beneath my weary feet, and I knew no more.

My father had gone to Cambridge with
Bob, and Aunt Phyllis had run home to see
her mother. Some one found me as I lay
insensible, and I was carried into the gabled
room, and laid there on the bed. Aunt
Phyllis and I had been using it for resting
in when off watch, and a fire was kept
burning there.

The servants were alarmed about me,
and sent for the doctor, and when I opened
my eyes the grave kind face of Mr. Lynd^
hurst was leaning over me.

A telegram from Aunt Phyllis to say she
could not return till the following day did
not mend matters, and Mr. Lyndhurst
stated his intention of coming in again to
see how we were getting on the last thing
at night, and begged me very hard to rest
until then, and Grandmamma CosteHon
having undertaken to sit with Flo, I promised
; and I must have fallen asleep, for I
was greatly surprised to awake and find
myself in total darkness, and I had scarcely
aroused myself from the lethargy which had
overcome me, when, all of a sudden, I
heard that same wailing sound which had
so alarmed me before. I longed to escape
from the room, but did not feel the courage
to leave my bed in the darkness, and grope
my way to the door, and down the stairs.

So I lay there with my hair seeming to
rise on my head ; my flesh crept, and I
felt as though cold water were tricking

down my spine. I was paralyzed. Yes,
cowardly as it seems, I must confess it, I
was paralyzed with fear. At any other time
I flatter myself it would not have been so,
but as it was, I really felt unable to move,
and I am not sure I did not faint again ;
but at length a light shone up the stairs,
and one of the servants brought in Mr.
Lyndhurst.

Why, what is the matter, Miss
Miriam ? " he asked, as I sprang up with
straining eyes, and fairly began to cry.

Poor girl ! you are thoroughly overdone.
I wish with all my heart Miss
Armatage was not away. You are not fit
to sit up with your sister to-night."

Oh ! yes, I am," I exclaimed, eagerly.
I will not leave her, and indeed I could
not remain here. You may believe it or
no, but this room is haunted. I did not
mind it so very much when I was quite

well ; but to-night, I, a Costelion, have
been an actual coward. I am so ashamed,
for I always flattered myself I was afraid
of nothing on earth ; and that is just it. I
don't believe these sounds are earthly at all."

Mr. Lyndhurst fetched a glass, and gave
me some composing medicine, then begged
me to dress myself while he went to see my
sister. When I descended the stairs he
was waiting for me.

Miss Miriam," he said, with a smile,
I hope I have not taken a liberty, but I
have asked your servant to give me a little
supper, and I must get you to come and
keep me company''

I saw through this kindly ruse of his,
and although I had no appetite, I felt I
could not refuse to follow out his wishes.
When we were seated at the table, and the
maid, having served us, had left the room,
he said, suddenly,

So, Miss Miriam, you really believe in
ghosts. I can assure you there is nothing
which tries the nerves so greatly as such a
belief; endeavour to shake it off'*

I know nothing about ghosts," I replied,
somewhat petulantly ; " but I do
know that there are unearthly sounds in
that room, like a soul in pain."

Why not a body ? " he laughed. " It
strikes me the material world make more
noise than the ethereal ; but it shall be my
business to try and find out what is the
mystery of the gabled chamber''

Grandmamma Costelion had fallen asleep
at her post, he told me, so I hurried upstairs,
and took my place upon the sofa in
my sister s room, Httle dreaming that Mr.
Lyndhurst had gone back to the haunted
room.

The next morning he greeted me with a
smiling face. " I have hunted down your

ghost, Miss Miriam' he said, cheerfully,
*^ and with your father s permission, I can
lay this demon spirit in a few minutes."

How ^ '' I asked, " what is it ? "

"It is only the weathercock on your
gable, which sadly wants grease ; but I
should suggest that Sir Charteris has it
removed from the house to the stable,
where it will disturb Shamrock less than
you, if it should get out of gear and take
to groaning again ; you will see, it is yet
another instance of the need of an oiled
feather. Some people say there's nothing
like leather, but I contend there's nothing
Hke oil''

"So I have been frightened out of my
wits by a rusty weathercock ! " I said, indignant
with myself; "well, I must confess
I feel very small."

And some people are worse than you,"
he laughed. " I have seen women, and

men too, for the matter of that, afraid of
their own shadows."

What ugly people they must have
been," I returned ; " but Mr. Lyndhurst, I
really am ashamed of myself — yet now, I
understand it all. On quiet, still nights
there was no sound, because the weathercock
did not move, but when the wind was
high, then as it turned, it creaked and
groaned, and its noise, mingling with the
storm, was like cries of pain. Mr. Lynd-
hurst, I am so very much obliged to you.^'

Then promise me, Miss Miriam, that
in future you will never give way to superstitious
fancies, and look for the improbable
until you have searched thoroughly for the
real and probable," he said kindly ; and I
promised, assuring him that all superstition
on my part had been cured by the unromantic
weathercock.

Autumn passed away, and winter
wrapped us in her white cloak, but there
were few landmarks to note the fleeting
days. My sister had been given back tous,
but she was a gift whom it was needful
for us to care for and cherish. Mr. Lynd-
hurst had warned us that her state of
health was precarious, and that she must
not be worried or crossed in any way. He
hoped that she might outgrow her delicacy,
but, on the other hand, it was not unlikely
that she might go into a decline ; so
we watched her with anxious love, fearfully.

Christmas came and went. Bob had
been home, and had gone back again to
college. The sad season of Lent was
approaching — a time which never seems
cheerful, even to the unthinking, but tome,
always appears laden with trouble.

I was coming along the passage, dressed
for a walk, when I met Sir Gordon entering

the house. He greeted me with his usual
goodwill and we parted, each going our
different ways : mine was to inquire for
Mr. Montague who had been ill, his to sit
with Florence.

The air was crisp and fresh, and I enjoyed
my walk, but as I neared the Manor
House, a dull sense of oppression seized
upon me. The woman who opened the
gate had, I could see, been weeping, so I
passed on, not liking to pry into her
trouble. I noticed that the blinds were
all do^vn, but the sun was upon the windows
and I felt no alarm. I was admitted
to the house and shown at once into Miss
CaroHne's own room, by the butler, who,
always grave, was far more so than usual.
*' I thought you would come, dear Miriam,"
said my old friend, softly, as she placed her
arms about me, and I saw that the sweet
old face was wet with tears.

'' Oil ! Miss Caroline," I cried, " is your
brother worse ? "

"No dear," she replied, raising her loving
eyes to mine, "he is better — all is well with
him — he is at rest ! It is we who are left
who suffer."

You don't mean that he is — dead ? " I
asked.

People call it so, Miriam, but we who
believe know better. He is ever present
with us now ; the communion of saints is
no figure of speech, dear — he is being perfected
for the great day. We must all
wait for that, either here on earth, or therein
paradise. There are many saints who
are even now saying ' How long, Lord ! ' "

Oh ! my dear friend," I murmured, " it
is very sudden, surely, I had no idea that
he was in danger."

Nor had we, Miriam ; but we are very
thankful that he had no suffering — for the

rest, he was ready whenever the Lord
might have called him — he was a faithful
servant."

After a few words of love and sympathy,
I went away. I seemed to have no business
there, and as I walked homeward I
was still and sad.

At our own door, I met Sir Gordon
Graham, and was struck by a strange change
in his manner. He stopped, and taking
me by both hands, he said, "Good bye,
Miriam ; God knows when we shall meet
again ! " and before I could answer him, he
was gone.

I turned at once towards the drawing
room and entered it.

My sister was sitting before the fire, and
took no notice of me, but I placed my hand
upon her arm, and knelt down beside her.

Florence," I said, earnestly, " I trust

you have not been throwing away your
VOL. II. p

happiness. Why has Sir Gordon left you in
such strange haste ? Surely, dear, you have
not quarrelled with him."

What if I have," she said, haughtily,
** is it any business of yours, Miriam ? "

Yes, dear," I answered boldly ; " it is my
business, and the business of every member
of your family to try and prevent you from
bringing misery upon your life. Flo, dear
Flo, you must love Sir Gordon — you cannot
possibly have so changed towards him but
that you will be happy as his wife. In our
altered circumstances, I cannot see where
you will ever find so good a match again —
especially with the incubus of a broken
engagement."

"Thank you, Miriam," said my sister,
coldly, "neither Sir Gordon nor I have
asked for your opinion, nor do we need
your advice. Kindly do not refer to the
subject again."

CHAPTER XIV.

I NOTICED that night that my father s brow

was clouded, and that he seemed to have

aged suddenly, but I imagined that he

must have heard from my sister of her

quarrel with her lover, a quarrel which

something told me would not be a renewal

of love. A bright letter from Aunt Phyllis

cheered me — she and her mother were welland

happy.

Another day passed away, and once more

my father returned home, and this time he

was so pale as actually to startle me.

I had seen him from the window, and

p2

hastened out to meet him. "Papa," I said,
is anything the matter — are you ill ? "

He laid a feverish hand upon mine, and
drew me after him artlessly ; and thus, in
silence, we entered his little study.

Miriam," he gasped, sinking into a
chair, " Miriam, I am ruined ! "

Ruined 1 " I echoed, catching at the
table for support, "Ruined! what has ruined
you ? " and all the world seemed to whirl
round and round, in chaos and confusion.

That man — Rider — has done it."

Then there came back to my recollection
Mr. RadclifFe's words of mistrust, and my own
instinct against him. Had I been unmindful
of my father's interests ? Was there
nothing I could have done to warn, to help,
to save him ? A feeling of blindness, of
numbness, seemed to encompass me, and
hold me silent — all sense appeased to
have been knocked completely out of me.

I had never dreamed that misfortune could
further overtake us. We had been driven
from our dear, much loved home, and I had
behaved that the worst of ills had befallen
us.

I could not realize this new trouble, nor
could my mind recover from the shock — it
had stunned me ; but I was aroused at
length. What was it I heard? My father,
Sir Charteris, the proud and haughty
baronet was sobbing.

That counter shock cleared my bewildered
mind.

'' Papa, dear papa ! " I murmured, sinking
upon my knees beside him, " do not
grieve ; it is hard for you, very hard, but
let us be brave — there must be something
left for us."

Miriam, there is nothing left — but disgrace.
Every penny I have in the world
must go, and God knows they are not

many ; they will take even the furniture
from under this roof."

But Kingsholme is entailed — they cannot
touch that, can they papa 1 "

'* No, they can only oblige me to mortgage
it for my life, I believe. Poor Bob !
it would have been better for him had
he been born anything but a CosteHon.
Miriam, I know not what to do."

*' Papa, let us send for Aunt Phyllis, she
will help us — she is so wise, she will be
able to tell us what to do."

"Ay, child, send for her, she is a good and
true woman, but spare your poor sister as
long as possible. Thank God she at least
will not share my ruin — she must marry
Graham at once ! "

I raised my eyes full of trouble to his,
but he was too much engrossed to see
them, so I said nothing, though in my
heart I felt that there would never be any

marriage between my sister and Sir Gordon
Graham. I did not tell her, but it eked
out somehow that trouble had befallen us,
and Florence was not long in hearing the
truth. I saw that she knew it, but she
said not one word — she sat pale and quiet,
looking before her into the far unseen
distance.

Aunt Phyllis came to us at once, and
renewed strength seemed to come with
her.

*' Oh ! auntie," I cried, " is not this
trouble indeed '? "

"Yes, darling," she answered, softly, "it
is truly ; but strength is often perfected in
weakness ; when there seems nothing we
can do for ourselves we learn to put our
whole trust in our Heavenly Father, and
you may be sure He is able and willing to
help all who call upon Him."

Bob returned home quite unexpectedly,

and he and Sir Charteris were shut up together
in the study for so long that I grew
nervous and frightened, and when he came
out, there was a quiet determination in the
grave, pale face, and an earnestness in the
dark grey eyes, that I had never before
seen there.

A few days after, we learnt that Bob
had persuaded Sir Charteris that the right
and honourable course for him was to cutoff
the entail of Kingsholme Abbey, and to
give up all to the creditors. And when he
should be of age, this would be his inheritance
— to sign away his birthright.

Miriam," said Aunt Phyllis to me that
night, " I am proud of my nephew ; Bob is
a noble fellow." And I had agreed with
her, with overflowing eyes and a bursting
heart.

Soon after we learnt that there was a
purchaser for the old home, which we had

so dearly loved. Some London firm had
made a good offer for it, on behalf of a
non-appearing client, and when Bob should
reach his twenty-first birthday, it was to
be legally given over. In the meantime
the poor boy had left college, and had
applied for a commission in the army.

"You see, Miriam, I shall need no
capital in that walk of life," he said,
cheerily, " and I regard it as a grand profession
for one who is ready and willing to
work at military subjects."

But, Bob, will you manage to live
upon your pay ? There are so many expenses
; the uniforms must cost so much."

I must live upon it," he returned ;
"there is no choice in the matter, but I
have no fears for myself It is at your
future and my father's I look with pain."

Do not mind for me. Bob," I replied ;
I shall be able to earn something in time.

Indeed, I have already done a little that
way, but I cannot think what our poor
father is to do. We have to give up this
house and all it contains at the end of the
month. I really think it will break his
heart."

'sit will break his spirit, and that to a
Costelion is, I think, worse'* said Bob,
sadly. *• However, he has a kind friend
in Aunt Phyllis, and things might be
worse, for we might not have her. We
may be thankful our poor stepmother
passed away before this blow fell upon us.
It would have complicated matters very
much."

"Aunt Phyllis has asked us all to go
and stay with her, Bob, and, for a short
time, I do not see what else we can do ;
but we are a terribly large party."

Trevelyan and I are going to remain
with Mr. Radcliffe for the present," he

answered. " He and Aunt Phyllis are
indeed friends in need."

I wish you were coming with us, dear,"
I said, yearningly. " I fear we shall not
see much of one another, when once our
paths begin to diverge."

Never mind, Miriam, together or apart
we will do our duty, and never doubt one
another's affection."

"Never, Bob, never; and now I want
to tell you how noble I think it of you to
give up Kingsholme. I know how you
love it, and how great a trouble the sacrifice
must be."

Yes, it is a wrench ; the old place is
wondrous dear to me, but my father s
honour and our good name is more dear tome
still. No one shall say we have helped to
ruin others and could yet retain our estate."

'have we ruined others?" I asked,
horrified.

The Company with which my father
has identified himself has done so, and
that is the same thing. Thousands of
unfortunate families have been brought to
poverty."

"And who is to blame for all this?
Has there been dishonesty, or what ? "

God knows, ]miriam ; all concerned in
it will share the blame, but as far as I can
make out, the law will touch none. If you
ask me who is in fault, I believe it is that
man Rider's doing, and that he is a scamp,
but he has taken care that his rascality
shall not appear."

But did not papa know how things
were going? Why did he not throw the
whole concern up ? "

The fact is, Miriam, that the father is
not a man of business. He did think
things were going wrong, but his doubts
were explained away by Rider, and he

was persuaded that the difficulties were
merely temporary ones, and had the fact
clearly proved to him by that clever
rascal."

Then the Eiders, too, are ruined ? "

Not they; Mr. Rider has managed
that nearly all he had has been settled
most generously upon his wife. He is all
right, you may be sure."

The world seems a strange place. Bob,"
I said, sadly. " We did not come across
these sort of people at our dear old Kings-holme,
and to think it will never now be
our home again ! I wonder who has
bought it."

** The lawyers do not seem inclined to
tell us ; but I am glad to know one thing,
viz., that the purchaser is a maiden lady
of good family, that is a comfort at any
rate."

Bob," I asked, suddenly, " that picture

of Flo's mother, must that be given up?
I am sure papa would not like to part from
that, it was the only thing he took away
from the strangers to whom he let the
house."

*' Yes, I am afraid so," he replied ;
that cannot be considered a personalty, I
fear."

Then I will ask Aunt PhyUis to buy
it," I exclaimed.

"What is Aunt PhyUis to buy?" said
a low sweet voice behind us.

Oh ! auntie, I did not know you were
there ! " I replied. " We were talking
about all we must give up. Must everything
go ? "

It would not be honest to retain
anything, dear. Your father has promised
to give up all, and when he has done that,
he can do no more," she said, sadly ; " and
this dear boy has behaved nobly, too," and

she laid her hand fondly on my brothers
shoulder.

It was not much I wanted to retain,
auntie, and nothing for myself. It was
the painting of the second Lady Costelion.
I know poor papa cherished it, and if I
were Florence I could not bear a stranger
to buy it. Oh ! if I had such a picture of
my own dear mother ! "

I have a very nice one of her, Miriam
dear, and it shall be yours ; I can have it
copied for myself As to the other, if it be
possible, I will purchase it, and give it to
Sir Charteris. It would be a nice welcome
for him, would it not, to find it in
his study at Greenholm. I hope he will
make himself happy with us ; for the rest,
there is plenty of room, and I think you
wil like the place better than Little Newington
; but perhaps I am partial, having
lived there so long. It was from that very

house Sir Charteris took your mother, Bob,
twenty-two years ago, and more. Poor
dear girl, I can see her happy face now,
looking into that of the young husband
whom she loved so truly. The house is
not altered one bit since those days, but I
cannot say the same of the neighbourhood.
We stood almost alone then, now we have
quite a colony around us, and most of our
neighbours are good, kindly people. I
trust your poor father will make himself
content among us."

But, dear Aunt Phyllis, you cannot
imagine we are going to saddle ourselves
on you ; it is good of you to have us for a
visit, but "

Miriam," returned my aunt, more
severely than I had ever heard her speak
before, " Miriam, I had hoped you felt that
I stood in your mother's place to you ; but
if I hear another such remark I shall begin

to think I have been mistaken. My home
is your home and Bob's home, and the
home of all who belong to you."

I could not answer her, all I could do
was to take both her hands in mine, while
tears fell unheeded down my cheeks, and
as I stood, so holding her, the door opened,
and our little housemaid informed me that
Mr. Lyndhurst was waiting to see me in
the drawing-room, so drying my eyes
quickly, I went to him, regardless of
appearance.

"Miss Miriam," he said kindly, as he
greeted me, " I have been away on
a holiday and only came back last
night, or I should have been to see you
before."

I hope the change has done you good,"

I returned, doing my best to smile. " You

work so hard and deserve your rest when

it comes."

VOL. II. Q

"Thank you," he said earnestly, ** you
are always thoughtful for others ; but I
came here to speak to you upon a more
serious topic than my holiday. Miss
Miriam, I am so truly sorry for your
trouble."

I knew you would be," I answered,
raising my eyes to his gratefully, regardless
of the tear traces still on them.

*' I did not know of it until this morning,
and the news quite knocked me over."

*'I wonder you did not see it in the
newspapers," I said, bitterly. *' I thought
every one had done so."

I did see that a company had smashed,
but so many do that, that I did not either
heed it or read about it " (then suddenly)—
*' Is it true that Sir Charteris intends to
give up everything f " he asked.

Everything I " I echoed, proudly. " He
will keep nothing back ; and Bob and he

will even give up the dear old home here
our family have lived and died for generations
; the entail is to be cut off directly
my brother is of age, in the meantime
all arrangements have been made to
sell it."

There was silence between us then, and
Mr. Lyndhurst, for the first time since I
had known him, was visibly nervous, and
followed the pattern of the carpet with
the hunting crop which he carried for the
convenience of gate opening when riding,
in place of his usual stick ; and looking at
him in wonder, I saw that the grave, kind
face was anxious and troubled.

Is anything the matter ? or are you

sorrowing for us, my friend V 1 asked at

length. " I fear you will have to suffer

too ; for I know papa owes you a long bill'

I ended, somewhat comically, between

laughing and crying.

Q2

'' I wish that were all his botheration,"
he replied, 'the score could soon be wiped
off. I made money in the New World and
am not very particular about such matters,
and love my profession for itself; but now
I have something to say which I hope will
not offend you, Miss Miriam, and I pray
you to hear me through patiently, then say
to me what you will. I told you my early
history awhile since, and how my youth
had been blighted ; but time has long ago
taken the sting out of that loss. The
woman I loved was not worthy of a true
man's affection, and I need not wear the
willow for her. I believe I am constituted
for domesticity, I am fond even of my
own companionless home ; but I have not
married, simply because I have never met
with the woman I could believe in until
lately. Miriam, I am fully aware how
inferior I am to you in all ways, and that

your family is one of the oldest and
proudest in England, and therefore I have
held my peace, being certain that your
father would never consent to your marrying
any one beneath you in station. But
now that sorrow has overtaken him, I have
been thinking whether he might give you
to me. Miriam, dear, would you come ?
will you come ? will you make sunshine ina
heart where darkness has long reigned ?
will you be a helpmeet to a companionless
man ? will you make him who lost his
belief in human nature to have faith in it
once more ? Little Miriam, I have been
watching you ever since that night when
your brother came to me through the frost
and snow to fetch me to your poor stepmother,
and each day my love and respect
for you increases. I cannot offer you the
old passionate love that was poured out so
freely years since, but I can an affection

which is purer and truer. Little friend, be
my wife ! "

I had heard him out — not by one word
had I interrupted him — not, I think, because
he had bidden me so to hear him, but
because I was so overcome with surprise
that I was speechless, and his love for mein
my trouble brought a vague sense of
gladness which carried me with him against
my will. It was pleasant for me, a homeless,
penniless gu, to know that here was
one ready and willing to cherish me through
life ; it was happiness to feel that this man
whom I so greatly respected and esteemed
thought me worthy of so deep and true an
affection, but never for one moment did X
dream of accepting his generous offer,
generous because made at such a time. I
held out both my hands to him and smiled
through my gathered tears. '' Oh, Mr.
Land hurst, my kind, good friend, how I

thank you for your love and for your
good opinion ; believe me it makes
sorrow light to find others ready to take
the burthen off our shoulders, and I am
grateful. Your friend I will ever be, but,
oh I forgive me, I could never be your
wife."

Then my day dream is over, little
Miriam," he said, sadly, "and the lonely
man must go back to his solitary life. It
will be all the darker, dear, for having seen
this ray of hope ; but I do not blame you
child, remember that. How should you
know I was learning to love you — you a
Costelion, and I a country doctor. It was
very impertinent, was it not, Miss Miriam,
but you will forgive it I am sure, and when
we are parted you will remember me sometimes."


"How could I forget all your kindness ? "
I faltered. He was looking away out into

the distance, then he turned to me with a
sad smile.

'^I suppose somewhere out in that large
space we call the world, there is one whom
you can and do love. If so, God grant you
both happiness."

At his words my pale cheeks glowed and
my eyes fell, and that was answer enough
for him. The hand which he had grasped
was resigned gently — and I was alone.

-)'r *-rr *

The following day my sister Florence
called me to her side and placed a letter in
my hands. It was from Sir Gordon
Graham. That their engagement had been
broken off had never been publicly announced,
indeed, not one of us had dared to
tell Sir Charteris of the fact.

"I am glad he has written' said
Florence, with a glow of colour creeping
into her pale cheeks, for when our troubles

came the thought hould arise in my mind
that he had heard the smash was expected,
and for that reason took me at my word —
(do you know, Miriam, I did not think he
would do so) — but I told him our engagement
was a bore, and I wished it was
over ;" and then she continued with a
laugh, " I shall never forget the long face
which he drew when he said, *It is in
your hands, Florence, to get rid of the
bore, as soon as you please.' * In that case
I do so at once,' I replied, proudly. That
was how it came about ; and now you see
he has offered to renew our engagement,
and has asked me to return to India with
him next month."

'rand you will do so?" I asked, eagerly ;
but my sister raised herself and looked at
me, her blue eyes flashing with scorn.

Indeed, I shall not ! Miriam, do you
imagine for a moment that having broken

with him in a time of comparative prosperity,
I would let him take me back again
out of pity ! "

"I don't see that you need view it in
that light ; lovers often make up their
quarrels. * Amantium ircB amor is integration
est ' is an old saying."

"That may be," she returned, coldly,
but I would not do it ; it would be
receiving a favour at his hands."

"You love him, Flo, so you need not
mind it, even if it were the case, which I
will not acknowledge."

Love him ! I am not so sure of that ; I
should have married him undoubtedly, but
I don't think he is Ditch in my line."

And you really mean to part with him
entirely, and with our uncertain prospects
before you ; it is downright madness ! As
to your not caring for him, I cannot believe
it. He is a very attractive man, and I

am sure if you decide against him, you will
repent it bitterly."

I shall not break my heart," she said,
with a shrug of the shoulders.

"Sir Gordon is well enough, but his
family always seemed to think me an obstructive.
There is an heiress in the field,
whom they have had their eyes upon for a
long time. Perhaps Gordon 'will take her
now ; at any rate, 1 shall not prevent
him."

"Who told you this, Florence?" I
asked.

Mrs. Hamilton."

Then Mrs. Hamilton had better have
held her tongue," I answered, with annoyance.
"It is shameful of her to have
unsettled you in your engagement ; but
I feel sure that Sir Gordon will not
marry this heiress, or any one else— at
present."

"Very well, he can do as he pleases,"
she said with indifference.

Of course he can ; but perhaps he will
persuade you out of your determination,
Flo, I see he says he will be here to-day
for his answer."

*' That is why I showed you his letter,
Miriam. I am not up to this interview. I
want you to see him for me, and to tell
him I consider he has behaved well — even
generously — but I do not wish to renew
the engagement. I am certain I should
enter his family without a welcome under
the circumstances — the Grahams are as
proud as Lucifer."

*' Have you ever heard of the pot calling
the kettle black?" I asked amused in
spite of my vexation.

"Yes, I have, and consider it rather a
vulgar expression. I would not use it, if I
were you, Miriam."

"No, I daresay you would not," I
laughed ; " but you see I have plebeian
blood in my veins, and murder will
out."

Ah ! * what is bred in the bone,' eh !
Miriam ; but you will see Sir Gordon forme,
will you not ? "

And your mind is quite made up 1 ''

Quite."

I am sorry ; I fear papa will be terribly
annoyed."

I cannot help that."

"Flo," I said, earnestly, "do you
remember the state of mind you got into
at Devonshire Terrace ? Do reflect ; the
time may come when we shall have a far
worse home — or none at all."

I cannot realize the position," she
returned, lightly.

But it may come to you."

"I don't see why; Aunt PhyUis has a

good home, and she says we are to live
with her."

I turned from her impatiently. I could
not understand my sister's pride. She
would not accept anything at the hands of
the man who only a few short days ago she
was ready to marry, yet she could calmly
make up her mind to live upon the charity
of the sister of her father's first wife ; and
I verily believe she thought the favour was
to be done to Aunt Phyllis ! Ah, me !
people are funny things, and not the least
so was my pretty, wilful, sister.

Of course I had to see Sir Gordon. He
was very much altered, and looked pale and
haggard. I felt that my task was a difficult
one, but it had to be done. I told him, to
begin with, that I was sorry to see him not
looking well, and he seated himself beside
me, and took my hand kindly.

"You cannot laugh at me, Miriam about

personal appearance," he said, trying to
smile. *' Why, what a wan little girl it
is."

** Yes ! we have all gone through a great
deal since I saw you last, and trouble will
leave its landmarks, you see."

*' It does, indeed ; but, dear Miriam, how
is your sister ? how does she bear up
against it 1 I have been blaming myself
heavily for my conduct. She was weak
and fretful, and I had no right to take herat
her word like that, and I want her to
forgive me."

"I do not think she has anything to
forgive," I answered freely. *' She has told
me what she said to you, and you cannot
be blamed for resenting it'*

Nevertheless, 1 regret it," he persisted.
Will you ask her to see me ?"

Yes," I replied, rising, for I made up
my mind to tell her what he had said, and

to try and persuade her once more ; but
my errand was a fruitless one.

** I am so sorry," I began, " but Florence
says sbe cannot see you'

*' Is she then very ill?" he asked anxiously.

*not worse than usual, but I think you
must have found out for yourself, that,
dearly as we all love her, she is sometimes
very wilful. I have done my best to
alter her decision, but she refuses an
interview." "

Miriam," he said with emotion, *' I cannot
tell you how often that wilfulness has
pained me. I think you know that I really
love her ; yet I was backward in asking
her to be my wife, never feeling sure of her
moods from day to day ; and since our
engagement it has been worse. She is
uncertain, coy, and hard to please, indeed,
and when she told me it was a bore to her,
I felt that she was only speaking the truth,

and that she would be happier free ; but
now that this trouble has come upon her,
and upon you all, I long to comfort her,
and to shelter her from sorrow ; and yet
you tell me she will not even see me.
Miriam, what can I do '? Tell me the truth,
does she love me or no ?"

You were to have been my brother," I
said, with swimming eyes, *rand you are
Captain Armstrong's friend, so you may be
sure I would help) you if I knew how ; but
truly I do not. I believe she has taken it
into her head that your family have wished
you to marry someone else — an heiress, I
think."

What if they have," he replied, his
bronze cheeks reddening with annoyance.

*' Well, I think someone has kindly
made mischief. My sister is very proud,
and some so-called friend has traded upon
that fact''

VOL. II. R

Have you any idea who has done this''
he asked.

Yes. But I fear I am not justified in
giving up names."

After a silence, during which lie had
risen and walked to the window, where he
stood gazing out, he turned to me, and
placing his hand on my shoulder, looked
down upon me kindly.

Miriam'' he said, " Armstrong is a
lucky fellow to have secured such love as
yours, and I shall tell him so when I get
back to India. My year's leave and the
extension have both expired, and my health
is all right now, and I must join my regiment."


•' I have never told you that I love
Captain Armstrong," I said, blushing hotly.

No, not in words, Miriam, but your
love is too great to hide, and so is his ;
neither of you can name the other unmoved.

I am not wrong, am I V and he smiled into
my eyes.

No, I am not ashamed of it," I replied,
raising my face honestly to his, "I may
never be any more to him than I am now,
but I cannot be less ; he is the one man in
the world for me."

Oh ! Miriam," he said earnestly, " if
your sister were but like you."

'^ She would scarcely thank you for the
compliment," I returned, with a sad smile.

Yes, she is more beautiful," he replied,
dreamily, " but, my child, is she so true ?"

'•' Sir Gordon," I answered, " I cannot
reply to that question. My sister is young
and thoughtless, perhaps she does not yet
know her own mind. If you really love
her, as I believe you do, I can only say,
trait and see, if you don't intend to marry
the heiress."

I certainly have no such intention, and

I will follow your advice. In three years
I shall get my company at latest. Then
I intend to leave the service and settle at
home. I will wait until then, and if she is
still free, I will ask her once more to be my
wife. If on the other hand she has given
her love meanwhile to another, I trust to
you, my friend and sister, to let me know
the truth. If hope be dead, let me bury it.
Do you think my decision a right one V

"It is a very generous one," I returned
warmly, "and I trust I may yet own you
for a brother ; it is not every girl who gets
a second chance, and I hope before your
return that she may have learnt to regret
her present decision, for I am sure you
would prove both good and true to her."

Then he bade me farewell. " Tell her
as much or as little of our conversation as
you think best," he said, holding both my
hands; "and now, God bless you, dear

Miriam ; if you would send me a line just
now and again, it would cheer me greatly'

He stooped over me, and I raised my
lips and kissed him, knowing well that my
Herbert would not grudge him that sisterly
salute, and without another word, but with
a lingering hand-clasp, he passed out from
among us — he who was to have been my
brother! and I sat there regretting him,
and wondering when and how the wheel
of time would bring us together again.
Florence, Florence," I murmured, " how
could you cast aside such love V

After awhile I went quietly up the stairs
with a saddened heart, when suddenly, to
my surprise, I sav my sister standing at the
passage window looking out, watching the
figure of a horseman lessening in the distance
— it was Sir Gordon Graham — and
when I came close to her I noticed that
there were tears in her eyes.

I had not meant to tell her of what had
passed between her late lover and myself,
but those tears changed my mind.

We went together into her room, and
there I told her every word he had said,
and when I had done she kissed me,
and that was all ; but it struck me that
her silence meant more than words, and
that she was touched by Sir Gordon's conduct.
And perhaps she was ; but impressions
soon passed from ney sister Florence's
mind.

My painful tasks were not over. It
fell to my lot to break the news to my
father. Aunt Phyllis had gone back to
Heathley to make preparations for our
reception there, or she would have helped
me, but as it was — all hope beg over of a
renewal of the engagement, there was only
one course left open to me — I had to do it
myself Nor do I wish to dwell upon this

painful interview more than I can help,
bir Charteris was very angry, as I knew he
would be ; but I was not prepared for his
laying the chief of the blame on me. Poor
father ! he was surely beside himself, or
he would scarcely have been so unjust tome.
But I remembered Aunt Phyllis'
words, and answered nothing.

END OF VOL. II.

STEVENS AND Richardson, PRINTERS, 5, GREAT QUEEN STREET, W.C.
