4m^m

^'

a I B Mary

OF THE
U University
Of ILLINOIS

B34we
vel

The person borrowing this material is responsible
for its renewal or return before
the Latest Date stamped below. You maybe
charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for
each non-returned or lost item.

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be
causes for student disciplinary action. All materials owned by
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of Illinois Criminal
Law and Procedure.

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

z

DEC 2 8 1999

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. L162

A NOVEL

BT

EDNA Lyell

AUTHOR OF "DONOVAN," ETC.

"Men are so made as to resent nothing more impatiently than to be
treated as criminal for opinions which they deem true'— Spinoza.

We two are a multitude. "ovid.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON :
Hues AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

Faro c o isr.

1871—1884.
"Knowledge by suffering entered."

^

CHAPTER I.

BRIAN FALLS IN LOVE.

Still humanity grows dearer,

Being learned the more.

Jean Angelo.

There are three things in this world which deserve no
quarter — Hypocrisy, Pharisaism, and Tyranny.

F. Robertson.

People who have been brought up in the
country, or in small places where e"^ry neighbour
is known by sight, are apt to think that
life in a large town must lack many of the
interests which they have learned to find in
their more limited communities. In a some-vol.
I. B

what bewildered ways, they gaze at the shifting
crowd of strange faces, and wonder whether it
would be possible to feel completely at home
where all the surroundings of life seem ever
changing and unfamiliar.

But those who have lived long in one quarter
of London, or of any other large town, know
that there are in reality almost as many links
between the actors of the town life-drama as
between those of the country life-drama.

Silent recognitions pass between passengers
who meet day after day in the same morning
or evening train, on the way to or from work ;
the faces of omnibus conductors grow familiar ;
we learn to know perfectly well on what day of
the week and at what hour the well-known
organ-grinder will make his appearance, and in
what street Ave shall meet the city clerk or the
care-worn little daily governess on their way
to office or school.

It so happened that Brian Osmond, a young-doctor
who had not been very long settled hi
the Bloomsbury regions had an engagement
which took him every afternoon down Gower

Street, and here many faces had grown familiar
to him. He invariably met the same
sallow-faced postman, the same nasal-voiced
milkman, the same pompous-looking man with
the bushy whiskers and the shiny black bag, on
his way home from the city. But the only
passenger in Avhom he took any interest was a
certain bright-faced little girl whom he generally
met just before the Montague Place crossing.
He always called her his 'little girl,'
though she was by no means little in the ordinary
acceptation of the word, being at least
sixteen, and rather tall for her years. But
there was a sort of freshness and naivete and
youthfulness about her which made him use
that adjective. She usually carried a pile of
books in a strap, so he conjectured that she
must be coming from school, and, ever since he
had first seen her, she had worn the same
rough blue serge dress, and the same quaint little
fur hat. In other details however, he could
never tell in the least how he should find her.
She seemed to have a mood for every diSij,
Sometimes she would be in a great hurry and

B 2

would almost run past him ; sometimes she
would saunter along in the most unconventional
way, glancing from time to time at a book
or a paper ; sometimes her eager face would
look absolutely bewitching in its brightness ;
sometimes scarcely less bewitching in a consuming
anxiety which seemed unnatural in one
so young.

One rainy afternoon in November, Brian was
as usual making his way down Gower Street,
his umbrella held low to shelter him from the
driving rain which seemed to come in all directions.
The milkman's shrill voice was still far
in the distance, the man of letters was still
at work upon knockers some way off, it was
not yet time for his little girl to make her
appearance, and he was not even thinking of
her, when suddenly his umbrella was nearly
knocked out of his hand by coming violently
into collision with another umbrella. Brought
thus to a sudden stand, he looked to see who
it was who had charged him with such violence,
and found himself face to face with his unknown
friend. He had never been quite so close to

her before. Her quaint face had always fascinated
him, but on nearer view he thought it the
loveliest face he had ever seen— it took his
heart by storm.

It was framed in soft, silky masses of dusky
auburn hair which hung over the broad white
forehead, but at the back was scarcely longer
than a boys. The features, though not regular,
were delicate and piquant, the usual faint
rose-flush on the cheeks deepened nov to carnation,
perhaps because of the slight contretemps,
perhaps because of some deeper emotion — Brian
fancied the latter, for the clear, golden-brown
eyes that were lifted to his seemed bright
either with indignation or with unshed tears.
To-day it was clear that the mood was nota
happy one : his little girl was in trouble.

I am very sorry,' she said, looking up at
him, and speaking in a low, musical voice, but
with the unembarrassed frankness of a child.
I really wash thinking or looking, it was very
careless of me.'

Brian of course took all the blame to himself,
and apologised profusely ; but though he

would have given much to detain her, if only
for a moment, she gave him no opportunity, but
with a slight inclination passed rapidly on. He
stood quite still, watching her till she was out
of sight, aware of a sudden change in his life.
He was a busy, hard-working man, not at all
given to dreams, and it was no dream that he
was in now. He knew perfectly well that he
had met his ideal, had spoken to her and she
to him ; that somehow in a single momenta
new world had opened out to him. For
the first time in his life he had fallen
in love.

The trifling occurrence had made no great
impression on the ' little girl ' herself. She was
rather vexed with herself for the carelessness,
but a much deeper trouble was filling her heart.
She soon forgot the passing interruption and
the brown-bearded man with the pleasant grey
eyes who had apologised for what was quite
her fault. Something had gone wrong that
day, as Brian had surmised ; the eyes grew
brighter, the carnation flush deepened as she
hurried along, the delicate lips closed with a

curiously hard expression, the hands were
clasped with unnecessary tightness round the
umbrella and the handle of the book-strap.

She passed up Guilford Square, but did not
turn into any of the old decayed houses ; her
home was far less imposing. At the corner of
the square there is a narrow opening which
leads into a sort of blind alley paved with
grirc flag-stones. Here, facing a high blank
wall, are four or five very dreary houses. She
entered one of these, put down her wet umbrella
in the shabby little hall, and opened the
door of a barely-furnished room, the walls
of which were, however, lined with books. Beside
the fire was the one really comfortable
piece of furniture in the room, an Ilkley couch,
and upon it lay a very wan-looking invalid,
who, as the door opened, glanced up with a
smile of welcome.

Why, Erica, you are home early to-day.
How is that V

Oh, I done know,' said Erica, tossing down
her books in a way which showed her mother
that she was troubled about something. ' I

Suppose I tore along at a gcfod rate, and
there was no temptation to stay at the High
School.'

Come and tell me about it,' said the mother,
gently, ' what has gone wrong, little one V

Everything !' exclaimed Erica, vehemently.
Everything always does go wrong with us
and always will, I suppose. I wish you had
never sent me to school, mother ; I wish I need
never see the place again !'

But till to-day you enjoyed it so much.'

Yes, the classes and the being with Gertrude.
But that will never be the same again.
It's just this, mother, I'm never to speak to
Gertrude again— to have nothing more to do
With her.'

Who said so ? And why V

Why ? Because I'm myself,' said Erica,
with a bitter little laugh. ' How I can help it,
nobody seems to think. But Gertrude's father
has come back from Africa and was horrified
to learn that we were friends, made
her promise never to speak to me again, and
made her write this note about it. Look !'

and she took* a crumpled envelope from ber
pocket.

The mother read the note in silence, and an
expression of pain came over her face. Erica,
who was very impetuous, snatched it away from
her when she saw that look of sadness.

Don't read the horrid thing !' she exclaimed,
crushing it up in her hand. ' There, we will
burn it !' and she threw it into the fire with a
vehemence which somehow relieved her.

You shouldn't have done that,' said her
mother. * Your father will be sure to want to
see it.'

'No, no, no,' cried Erica, passionately. 'He
must not know, you must not tell him, mother.'

Dear child, have you not learnt that it is
impossible to keep anything from him ! He will
find out directly that something is wrong.'

It will grieve him so, he must not hear it,'
said Erica. ' He cares so much for what hurts
us. Oh, why are people so hard and cruel?
Why do they treat us like lepers ? It isn't all
because of losing Gertrude — I could bear that if
there were some real reason, if she went away

or died. But there's no reason ! It's all prejudice
and bigotry and injustice — it's that which
makes it sting so.'

Erica was not at all given to tears, but there
was now a sort of choking in her throat, and a
sort of dimness in her eyes, whioc made her
rather hurriedly settle down on the floor in her
own particular nook beside her mother's couch,
where her face could not be seen. There was a
silence. Presently the mother spoke, stroking
back the wavy, auburn hair with her thin white
hand.

For a long time I have dreaded this for you,
Erica. I was afraid you didn't realise the sort
of position the world will give you. Till lately
you have seen scarcely any but our own people,
but it can hardly be, darling, that you can goon
much longer without coming into contact
with others, and then, more and more, you must
realise that you are cut off from much that other
girls may enjoy.'

Why V questioned Erica, ' why can't they be
friendly? Why must they cut us off from
everything?'

It does seem unjust, but you must remember
that we belong to an unpopular minority.'

But if I belonged to the larger party I would
at least be just to the smaller,' said Erica.
How can they expect us to think their system
beautiful when the very first thing they show
us is hatred and meanness. Oh, if I belonged
to the other side I would show them how different
it might be.'

I believe you would,' said the mother, smiling
a little at the idea, and at the vehemence of
the speaker. ' But, as it is, Erica, I am afraid
you must school yourself to endure. After all,
I fancy you will be glad to share so soon in your
father's vexations.'

Yes"* said Erica, pushing back the hair from
her forehead, and giving herself a kind of mental
shaking, ' I am glad of that. After all, they
can't spoil the best part of our lives ! I shall
go into the garden to get rid of my bad temper ;
it doesn't rain now.'

She struggled to her feet picked up the little
fur hat which had fallen off, kissed her mother,,
and went out of the room.

The ' garden ' was Erica's favourite resort,
her own particular property. It was about
fifteen feet square, and no one but a Londoner
would have bestowed on it so dignified a name.
But Erica, who was of an inventive turn, had
contrived to make the most of the little patch of
ground, had induced ivy to grow on the ugly
brick walls, and with infinite care and satisfaction
had nursed a few flowers and shrubs into
tolerably healthy though smutty life. In one
of the corners Tom Craigie, her favourite cousin,
had put up a rough wooden bench for her, aud
here she read and dreamed as contentedly as if
her ' garden ground ' had been fairyland. Here,
too, she invariably came when anything had gone
wrong, when the endless troubles about money
which had weighed upon her all her life became
a little less bearable than usual, or when some
act of discourtesy or harshness to her father
had roused in her a tingling, burning sense of
indignation.

Erica was not one of those people who take
life easily : things went very deeply with her.
In spite of her brightness and vivacity, in spite

of her readiness to see the ludicrous in everything,
and her singularly quick perceptions,
she was also very keenly alive to other and
graver impressions.

Her anger had passed, but still, as she paced
round and round her small domain, her heart
was very heavy. Life seemed perplexing to
her ; but her mother had somehow struck the
right key-note when she had spoken of the
vexations which might be shared. There was
something inspiriting in that thought, certainly,
for Erica worshipped her father. By degrees
the trouble and indignation died away and a
very sweet look stole over the grave little face.

A smutty sparrow came and peered down at
her from the ivy-covered wall and chirped and
twittered in quite a friendly way, perhaps recognising
the scattered of its daily bread.

'After all,' thought Erica, ' with ourselves and
the animals, we might let the rest of the world
treat us as they please. I am glad they can't
turn the animals and birds against us ! That
would be worse than anything.'

Then, suddenly turning from the abstract to-the

pi-actual, she took out of her pocket a
shabby little sealskin purse.

Still sixpence of ray prize-money over,' she
remarked to herself. ' I'll go and buy some
scones for tea. Father likes them.'

Erica's father was a Scotchman, and, though
so-called scones were to be had at most shops,
there was only one place where she could buy
scones which she considered worthy the name,
and that was at the Scotch baker's in Southampton
Row. She hurried along the wet pavements,
glad that the rain was over, for as soon
as her purchase was completed she made up her
mind to indulge for a few minutes in what had
lately become a very frequent treat, namely, a
pause before a certain tempting store of secondhand
books. She had never had money enough
to buy anything except the necessary schoolbooks,
and, being a great lover of poetry, she
always seized with avidity on anything that
was to be found outside the book-shop. sometimes
she would carry away a verse of Swinburne
which would ring in her ears for days and
days ; sometimes she would read as much as

two or three pages of Shelley. No one had
ever interrupted her, and a certain sense of
impropriety and daring was rather stimulating
than otherwise. It always brought to
her mind a saying in the proverbs of Solomon,
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in
secret is pleasant.'

For three successive days she had found to
her great delight Longfellow's ' Hiawatha.'
The strange metre, the musical Indian names,
the delightfully described animals, all served to
make the poem wonderfully fascinating to her.
She thought a page or two of •' Hiawatha ' would
greatly sweeten her somewhat bitter world this
afternoon, and with her bag of scones in one
hand and the book in the other she read on
happily, quite unconscious that three pair of
eyes were watching her from within the shop.

The wrinkled old man who was the presiding
genius of the place had two customers a tall
grey-bearded clergyman with bright, kindly
eyes, and his son, the same Brian Osmond
whom Erica had charged with her umbrella in
Gower Street.

*An outside customer for you,' remarked
Charles Osmond, the clergyman, glancing at
the shopkeeper. Then to his son, ' What a picture
she makes !'

Brian looked up hastily from some medical
books which he had been turning over.

Why, that's my little Gower Street friend,*
he exclaimed, the words being somehow surprised
out of him, though he would fain have
recalled them the next minute.

I don't interrupt her said the shop-owner.
Her father has done a great deal of business
with me, and the little lady has a fancy for
poetry, and don't get much of it in her life, I'll
be bound.'

- Why, who is she V asked Charles Osmond,
who was on very friendly terms with the old
book-collector.

She's the daughter of Luke Raeburn,' was
the reply, * and whatever folks may say, I know
that Mr. Raeburn leads a hard enough life.'

Brian turned away from the speakers, a
sickening sense of dismay at his heart. His
ideal was the daughter of Luke Raeburn !

And Luke Raeburn was an atheist leader!

For a few minutes he lost consciousness of
time and place, though always seeing in a sort
of dark mist Erica's lovely face bending over
her book. The shop-keeper's casual remark
had been a fearful bloAV to him ; yet, as he
came to himself again, his heart went out more
and more to the beautiful girl who had been
brought up in what seemed to him. so barren
a creed. His dream of love, which had been
bright enough only an hour before, was suddenly
shadowed by an unthought-of pain, but
presently began to shine with a new and altogether
different lustre. He began to hear again
what was passing between his father and the
shop-keeper.

There's a sight more good in him than
folks think. However wrong his views, he
believes them right, and is ready to suffer for
'em, too. Bless me, that's odd, to be sure I
There is Mr. Raeburn, on the other side of the
Eovv ! Fine looking man, isn't he !'

Brian, looking up eagerly, fancied he must
be mistaken, for the only passenger in sight

VOL. I. C

was a very tall man of remarkably benign
aspect, middle-aged, yet venerable — or perhaps
better described by the word ' devotional-looking,'
pervaded too by a certain majesty of
calmness which seemed scarcely suited to his
character of public agitator. The clean-shaven
and somewhat rugged face was unmistakably
that of a Scotchman, the thick waves of tawny
hair overshadowing the wide brow, and the
clear golden-brown eyes showed Brian at once
that this could be no other than the father
of his ideal.

In the meantime, Raeburn, having caught
sight of his daughter, slowly crossed the road,
and coming noiselessly up to her, suddenly
took hold of the book she was reading, and
with laughter in his eyes, said, in a peremptory
voice,

Five shillings to pay, if you please,
miss !'

Erica, who had been completely absorbed in
the poem, looked up in dismay ; then seeing
who had spoken she began to laugh.

What a horrible fright you gave me, father !

But do look at this, it's the loveliest thing iu the
world. I've just got to the " very strong man
Kwasind." I think he's a little like you !'

Raeburn, though no very great lover of
poetry, took the book and read a few lines.

Long they lived in peace together,
Spake with naked hearts together,
Pondering much and much contriving
How the tribes of men might prosper.'

Good ! That will do very well for you and
me, little one. I'm ready to be your Kwasind.
What's the price of the thing — 
! Too much for a luxury. It must wait
till our ship comes in.'

He put down the book and they moved on
together, but had not gone many paces before
they were stopped by a most miserable-looking
beggar child. Brian standing now outside the
shop, saw and heard all that passed.

Raeburn was evidently investigating the
case, Erica a little impatient of the interruption
was remonstrating.

I thought you never gave to beggars, and I
am sure that harrowing story is made up.'

c2

Very likely,' replied her father, ' but the
hunger is real, and I know well enough what
hunger is. What have you here?' he added,
indicating the paper bag which Erica held.

Scones,' she said, unwillingly.

That will do he said, taking them from
her and giving them to the child. ' He is too
young to be anything but the victim of another's
laziness. There! sit down and eat
them while you can.'

The child sat dov/n on a doorstep with the
bag of scones clasped in both hands, but he
continued to gaze after his benefactor till he
had passed out of sight, and there was a
strange look of surprise and gratification in his
eyes. That was a man who knew ! Many people
had, after hard begging, thrown him pence
many had warned him off harshly, but this man
had looked straight into his eyes, and had at
once stopped and questioned him, had singled
out the one true statement from a mass of lies,
and had given him — not a stale loaf With the
top cut off, a suspicious sort of charity which
always angered the waif — but his own food.

bought for bis own consumption. Most wonderful
of all, too, this man knew what it was
to be hungry, and had even the insight and
shrewdness to be aware that the waif's best
chance of eating the scones at all was to eat
them then and there. For the first time a feeling
of reverence and admiration was kindled in
the child's heart ; he would have done a great
deal for his unknown friend.

Raeburn and Erica had meanwhile walked on
in the direction of Guilford Square.

I had bought them for you said Erica reproachfully.


*And I ruthlessly gave them away,' said
Raeburn smiling. ' That was hard lines ; I
thought they were only household stock. But
after all it comes to the same thing in the
end, or better. You have given them to me by
giving them to the child. Never mind, "Little
son Eric !" '

This was his pet name for her, and it meant
a great deal to them. She was his only child,
and it had at first been a great disappointment
to everyone that she was not a boy. But Raeburn

had long ago ceased to regret this, and
the nick-name referred more to Erica's capability
of being both son and daughter to him,
able to help him in his work and at the same
to brighten his home. Erica was very proud of
her name, for she had been called after her
father's greatest friend Eric Haeberlein, a celebrated
republican, who once during a long exile
had taken refuge in London. His views were
in some respects more extreme than Raeburn's,
but in private life he was the gentlest and most
fascinating of men, and had quite won the heart
of his little namesake.

As Mrs. Raeburn had surmised, Erica's father
had at once seen that something had gone
wrong that day. The all-observing eyes, which
had noticed the hungry look in the beggar
child's face, noticed at once that his own child
had been troubled.

Something has vexed you,' he said. ^ What
is the matter. Erica V

I had rather not tell you father, it isn't anything
much,' said Erica, casting down her eyes
as if all at once the paving-stones had become
absorbingly interesting.

I fancj^ I know already,' said Raeburn. * It
is about your friend at the High School, is it
not? I thought so. This afternoon 1 had a
letter from her father.'

AVhat does he say ? May I see it V asked
Erica.

I tore it lip,' said Auburn, ' I thought you
would ask to see it, and the thing was really
so abominably insolent that I didn't want you
to. How did you hear about it V

Gertrude Avrote me a note,' said Erica.

*At her father's dictation, no doubt,' said
Raeburn, ' I should know his style directly, let
me see it.'

I thought it was a pity to vex you, so I
burnt it,' said Erica.

Then, unable to help being amused at their
efforts to save each other, they both laughed,
though the subject was rather a sore one.

It is the old story,' said Raeburn. ' Life
only, as Pope Innocent III. benevolently remarked,
*' is to be left to the children of mis-believers,
and that only as an act of
mercy." You must make up your mind to bear

the social stigma, little one. Do you see the
moral of this V

'No,' said Erica, with something between a
smile and a sigh.

*" The moral of it is that you must be content
with your own people,' said Raeburn. ' There
is this one good point about persecution — it
does draw us all nearer together, really
strengthens us in a hundred ways. So, little
son Eric, you must forswear school friends
and be content with your " very strong man
Kwasind," and we will

Live in peace together,
Speak with naked hearts together."

By-the-by^ it is rather doubtful if Tom will be
able to come to the lecture to-night : do you
think you can take notes for me instead V

This was in reality the most delicate piece
of tact and consideration, for it was of course
Erica's delight and pride to help her father.

FROM EFFECT TO CAUSE.

Only the acrid spirit of the times,
Corroded this true steel.

Longfellow.

Not Thine the bigot's partial plea,
Not Thine the zealot's ban ;
Thou well canst spare a love of Thee
Which ends in hate of man.

AVhittiee.

Luke Raeburn was the son of a Scotch clergyman
of the Episcopal church. His history,
though familiar to his own followers and to
them more powerfully convincing than many
arguments against modern Christianity, was
not generally known. The orthodox were apt

to content themselves with shuddering at the
mention of his name ; very few troubled themselves
to think or inquire how this man had been
driven into atheism. Had they done so they
might, perhaps, have treated him more considerately,
at any rate they must have learnt
that the much-disliked prophet of atheism was
the most disinterested of meu, one who had the
courage of his opinions, a man of fearless
honesty.

Raebm-n had lost his mother very early ; his
father, a well-to-do man, had held for many
years a small living in the west of Scotland.
He was rather a clever man, but one-sided and
bigoted; cold-hearted, too, and caring very
little for his children. Of Luke, however, he
was, in his peculiar fashion, very proud, for at
an early age the boy showed signs of genius.
The father was no great worker; though shrewd
and clever, he had no ambition, and was quite
content to live out his life in the retired little
parsonage where, with no parish to trouble him,
and a small and exacting congregation on
Sundays, he could do pretty much as he pleased.

But for bis son be was ambitions. Ever since
bis sixteenth year — wben^ at a public meeting,
the boy bad, to the astonishment of everyone,
suddenly sprung to bis feet and contradicted a
false statement made by a great landowner as
to the condition of the cottages on bis estate — ^
the father bad foreseen future triumphs for ibis
son. For the speech tbougb unpremeditated
was marvellously clever, and there was a power
in it not to be accounted for by a certain ring
of indignation ; it was the speech of a future
orator.

Then, too, Luke bad by this time shown signs
of religious zeal, a zeal wbicb bis father, though
far from attempting to copy, could not but admire.
His Sunday services over, be relapsed
into the comfortable, easy-going life of a country
gentleman for the rest of the week ; but bis son
was indefatigable, and, tbougb little more than
a boy himself, gathered round bim the roughest
lads of the village, and by bis eloquence, and a
certain peculiar personal fascination wbicb be
retained all bis life, absolutely forced them to
listen to bim. Tbe father augured great thugs

for him, and invariably prophesied that he
would 'live to see him a bishop yet.'

It was a settled thing that he should take
Holy Orders, and for some time Raeburn was
only too happy to carry out his father's plans.
In his very first term at Cambridge, however,
he began to feel doubts, and, becoming convinced
that he could never again accept the
doctrines in which he had been educated, he
told his father that he must give up all thought
of taking Orders.

Now, unfortunately, Mr. Raeburn was the
very last man to understand or sympathise with
any phase of life through which he had not
himself passed. He had never been troubled
with religious doubts ; scepticism seemed to him
monstrous and unnatural. He met the confessions
which his son had made in pain and
diffidence, with a most deplorable want of tact.
In answer to the perplexing questions which
were put to him, he merely replied testily
that Luke had been overworking himself,
that he had no business to trouble his head
with matters which were beyond him, and

would fain have dismissed the whole affair at
once.

But,' urged the son, ' how is it possible forme
to turn mj back upon these matters when I
am preparing to teach them?'

Nonsense,' replied the father, angrily. ' Have
not I taught all my life, preached twice a Sunday
these thirty years without perplexing myself
with your questionings ! Be off to your
shooting and your golf, and let me have no
more of this morbid fuss.'

No more was said ; but Luke Raeburn, with
his doubts and questions shut thus into himself,
drifted rapidly from scepticism to the most
positive form of unbelief. When he next came
home for the long vacation, his father was at
length awakened to the fact that the son, upon
whom all his ambition was set, was hopelessly
lost to the church ; and with this consciousness
a most bitter sense of disappointment rose in
his heart. His pride, the only side of fatherhood
which he possessed, was deeply wounded,
and his dreams of honourable distinction were
laid low. His wrath was greatest Luke found the

borne made almost unbearable to him. Isis college
career was of course at an end, for his
father would not hear of providing him with the
necessary funds now that he had actually confessed
his atheism. He was hardly allowed to
speak to his sisters, every request for money to
start him in some profession met with a sharp
refusal, and matters were becoming so desperate
that he would probably have left the
place of his own accord before long, had not
Mr. Auburn himself put an end to a state of
things which had grown insufferable.

With some lurking hope, perhaps, of convincing
his son, he resolved upon trying a course of
argument. To do him justice he really tried to
prepare himself for it dragged down volumes
of dusty divines, and got up with much pains
Paley's ' watch ' argument. There was some
honesty, even perhaps a very little love , in his
mistaken endeavours ; but he did not recognise
that, ^vhile he himself was unforgiving, unloving,
harsh, and self-indulgent, all his arguments for
Christianity were of necessity null and void.
He argued for the existence of a perfectly-loving,

good God, all the while treating his son
with injustice and tyranny. Of course there
could be only one result from a debate between
the two. Luke Raeburn with his honesty, his
great abilities, his gift of reasoning, above
all his thorough earnestness, had the best
of it.

To be beaten in argument was naturally the
one thing which such a man as Mr. Raeburn
could not forgive. He might in time have
learnt to tolerate a difference of opinion, he
would beyond a doubt have forgiven almost
any of the failings that he could understand,
would have paid his son's college debts without a
murmur, would have overlooked anything connected
with what he considered the necessary
process of ' sowing his wild oats.' Slit that
the fellow should presume to think out the
greatest problems in the world, should setup
his judgment against Paley's, and worst
of all should actually and palpably beat
1dm in argument — this was an unpardonable
offence.

A stormy scene ensued. The father in ungovernable

fury heaped upon the son every abusive
epithet he could think of. Luke Raeburn spoke
not a word ; he was strong and self-controlled ;
moreover, he knew that he had had the best of
the argument. He was human, however, and
his heart was wrung by his father's bitterness.
Standing there on that summer day, in the study
of the Scotch parsonage, the man's future was
sealed. He suffered there the loss of all things,
but at the very time there sprang up in him an
enthusiasm for the cause of free-thought, a passionate
, burning zeal for the opinions for which
lie suffered, which never left him, but served as
the great moving impulse of his whole subsequent
life.

'I tell you, you are not fit to be in a
gentleman's house,' thundered the father. ' A
rank atheist, a lying infidel! It is against
nature that you should call a parsonage your
home.'

It is not particularly home-like,' said
the son, bitterly. 'I can leave it when you
please.,

Can !' exclaimed his father, in a fury, ' you

will leave it, sir and this very days too ! I disown
yon from this time. I'll have no atheist for
my son ! Change your views or leave the house
at once.'

Perhaps he expected his son to make some
compromise ; if so he showed what a very slight
knowledge he had of his character. Luke Auburn
had certainly not been prepared for such
extreme harshness but with the pain and
grief and indignation there rose in his heart a
mighty resoluteness. With a face as hard
and rugged as the granite rocks without,
he wished his father good-bye, and obeyed his
orders.

Then had followed such a struggle with the
World as few men would have gone through
with. Cut off from all friends and relations by
his avowal of atheism, and baffled again and
again in seeking to earn his living, he had
more than once been on the very brink of starvation.
By sheer force of will he had won his
way, had risen above adverse circumstances,
had fought down obstacles, and conquered opposing
powers. Before long he had made fresh

VOL. T. D

friends and gained many followers, for there
was an extraordinary magnetism about the
man which almost compelled those who-were
brought into contact with him to reverence him.

It was a curious history. First there had
been that time of grievous doubt ; then he had
been thrown upon the world friendless and
penniless, with the beliefs and hopes hitherto
most sacred to him dead, and in their place
an aching blank. He had suffered much.
Treated on all sides with harshness and injustice,
it was indeed wonderful that he had not
developed into a mere hater, a passionate down-pulled.
But there was in his character a
nobility which would not allow him to rest at
this low level. The bitter hostility and injustice
which he encountered did indeed warp his
mind and every year of controversy made it
more impossible for him to take an unprejudiced
view of Christ's teaching ; but nevertheless he
could not remain a mere destroyer.

In that time of blankness, when he had lost
all faith in God, when he had been robbed of
friendship and family love, he had seized desperately

on the one thing left him, — the love of
humanity. To him atheism meant not only the
assertion— ' The word God is a word without
meaning, it conveys nothing to ray understanding.'
He added to this barren confession
of an intellectual state, a singularly high
code of duty. Such a code as could only have
emanated from one about whom there lingered
what Carlyle has termed, a great 'Afterlife
of Christianity.' He held that the only happiness
worth having was that Which came to a
man while engaged in promoting the general
good. That the whole duty of man was to
devote himself to the service of others. And
he lived his creed.

Like other people he had his faults, but he
was always ready to spend and be spent for
what he considered the good of others, while
every act of injustice called forth his unsparing
rebuke, and every oppressed person or cause was
sure to meet with his support at whatever cost
to himself. His zeal for what he regarded as
the ' gospel ' of atheism grew and strengthened
year by year. He was the untiring advocate of

D 2

what he considered the truth. Neither illness,
nor small results, nor loss, could quench his
ardour, while opposition invariably stimulated
him to fresh efforts. After long years of toil,
he had at length attained an influential position
in the country, and though crippled by
debts incurred in the struggle for freedom
of speech, and living in absolute penury,
he was one of the most powerful men of
the day.

The old book-seller had very truly observed
that there was more good in him than
people thought, he was in fact a noble character
twisted the wrong way by clumsy and
mistaken handling.

Brian Osmond was by no means bigoted ;
he had, moreover, known those who were intimate
with Raeburn, and consequently had
heard enough of the truth about him to disbelieve
the gross libels which were constantly
being circulated by the unscrupulous among
his opponents. Still, as on that November
afternoon he watched Raeburn and his daughter
down Southampton Row, he was conscious

that for the first time he fully regarded the
atheist as a fellow-man. The fact was, that Hae-burn
had for long years been the champion of a
hated cause ; he had braved the full flood of
opposition ; and like an isolated rock had been
the mark for so much of the rage and fury of
the elements that people who knew him only
by name had really learned to regard him more
as a target than as a man. It was who could
hit him hardest, who could most effectually
bafiSe and ruin him ; while the quieter spirits
contented themselves with rarely mentioning
his obnoxious name, and endeavouring as far as
possible to ignore his existence. Brian felt that
till now he had followed with the multitude todo
evil. He had as far as possible ignored his
existence ; had even been rather annoyed when
his father had once publicly urged that Raeburn
should be treated with as much justice
and courtesy and consideration as if he had
been a Christian. He had been vexed that his
father should suffer on behalf of such a man,
had been half inclined to put down the scorn
and contempt and anger of the narrow-minded

to the atheist's account. The feeling had
perhaps been natural, but all was changed now ;
he only revered his father all the more for having
suffered in an unpopular cause. With some
eagerness, he went back into the shop to see if
he could gather any more particulars from the
old book-seller. Charles Osmond had, however,
finished his purchases and his conversation, and
was ready to go.

The second house in Guilford Terrace, you
say he observed, turning at the door. ' Thank
you, I shall be sure to find it. Good-day.'
Then, turning to his son, he added, ^I had no
idea we were such near neighbours ! Did you
hear what he told me ? Mr. Raeburn lives in
Guilford Terrace.'

What, that miserable blind-alley, do you
mean, at the other side of the square V

Yes, and I'm just going round there now,
for our friend, the "Bookworm," tells me he
has heard it rumoured that some unscrupulous
person, who is going to answer Mr. Raeburn
this evening, has hired a band of roughs to
make a disturbance at the meeting. Fancy

how indignant Donovan would be ! I only
wish he were here to take word to Mr. Raeburn.'


Will he not most likely have heard from
some other source V said Brian.

Possibly ; but I shall go round and see. Such
abominations ought to be put down, and if by
our own side all the better.'

Brian was only too glad that his father
should go, and indeed, he would probably have
wished to take the message himself had not his
mind been set upon getting the best edition of
Longfellow to be found in all London for his
ideal. So, at the turning into Guilford Square,
the father and son parted.

The book-seller's information had roused in
Charles Osmond a keen sense of indignation ;
he walked on rapidly as soon as he had left his
sou, and in a very few minutes had reached the
gloomy entrance to Guilford Terrace. It was
currently reported that Raeburn made fabulous
sums by his work, and lived in great luxury ;
but the real fact was that, whatever his income,
few men led so self-denying a life, or voluntarily

endured such privations. Charles Osmond could
not help wishing that he could bring some of
the intolerant with him down that gloomy little
alley to the door of that comfortless lodging-house.
He rang, and was admitted into the
narrow passage, then shown into the private
study of the great man. The floor was uncarpeted,
the window uncurtained, the room
was almost dark; but a red glow of firelight
served to show a large writing-table strewn
with papers, and walls literally lined with
books ; also on the hearth rug a little figure
curled up in the most unconventionally comfortable
attitude, dividing her attention between
making toast and fondling a loudly-purring
cat.

CHAPTER TIL

LIFE FROM ANOTHER POINT OF VIEW.

Toleration an attack on Christianity? AVhat, then, are
we to come to this pass, to suppose that nothing can support
Christianity but the principles of persecution ? . . .
I am persuaded that toleration, so far from being an attack
on Christianity, becomes the best and surest support that
can possibly be given to it. . . Toleration is good for
all, or it is good for none. . . God forbid ! I may be
mistaken, but I take toleration to be a part of religion.

Burke.

Erica was, apparently, well used to receiving
strangers. She put down the toasting-fork, but
kept the cat in her arms, as she rose to greet
Charles Osmond, and her frank and rather
child-like manner fascinated him almost as
much as it had fascinated Brian.

My father will be home in a few minutes.'
she said, * I almost wonder you didn't meet him
in the square ; he has only just gone to send offa
telegram. Can you wait? Or will you leave
a message V

I will wait, if I may,' said Charles Osmond.
Oh, don't trouble about a light, I like this dimness
very well, and, please, don't let me interrupt
you.'

Erica relinquished a vain search for candle-lighters,
and took up her former position on the
hearth rug with her toasting-fork.

I like the gloaming, too,' she said. ' It's almost
the only nice thing which is economical!
Everything else that one likes specially costs
too much ! I wonder whether people with
money do enjoy all the great treats.'

Very soon grow blase, I expect,' said Charles
Osmond. ' The essence of a treat is rarity,
you see.'

I suppose it is. But I think I could enjoy
ever so many things for years and years without
growing hlaseej said Erica. ' Sometimes I
like just to fancy what life might be if there

were no tiresome Christians, and bigots and
law-suits.'

Charles Osmond laughed to himself in the
dim light ! the remark was made with such perfect
sincerity, and it evidently had not dawned
on the speaker that she could be addressing
any but one of her father's followers. Yet the
words saddened him too. He just caught a
glimpse through them of life viewed from a
directly opposite point.

Your father has a law-suit going on now,
has he not?' he observed, after a little pause.

Oh, yes, there is almost always one either
looming in the distance or actually going on.
I don't think I can ever remember the time
when we were quite free. It must feel very
funny to have no worries of that kind. I think,
if there wasn't always this great load of debt
tied round our necks like a millstone, I should
feel almost light enough to fly ! And then it is
hard to read in some of those horrid religious
papers that father lives an easy-going life. Did
you see a dreadful paragraph last week in the
Church Chronicle T

Yes, I did,' said Charles Osmond, sadly.

'It always has been the same,' said Erica.
'Father has a delightful story about an old
gentleman who at one of his lectures accused
him of being rich and self-indulgent — it was a
great many years ago when I was a baby, and
father was nearly killing himself with overwork
— and he just got up and gave the people
the whole history of his day, and it turned out
that he had had nothing to eat. Mustn't the
old gentleman have felt delightfully done?
I always wonder how he looked when he
heard about it, and whether after that he believed
that atheists are not necessarily everything
that's bad.'

I hope such days as those are over for Mr.
Raeburn,' said Charles Osmond, touched both
by the anecdote and by the loving admiration
of the speaker.

I don't know,' said Erica, sadly. ' It has
been getting steadily worse for the last few
years ; we have had to give up thing after thing.
Before long I shouldn't wonder if these rooms
in what father calls " Persecution Alley " grew

too expensive for us. But, after all, it is this
sort of thing which makes our own people love
him so much, don't you think V

I have no doubt it is,' said Charles Osmond,
thoughtfully.

And then for a minute or two there was silence.
Erica, having finished her toasting,
stirred the fire into a blaze, and Charles Osmond
sat watching the fair, childish face which
looked lovelier than ever in the soft glow of
the firelight. What would her future be , he
wondered. She seemed too delicate and sensitive
for the stormy atmosphere in which she
lived. Would the hard life embitter her, or
would she sink under it ? But there was a
certain curve of resoluteness about her well-formed
chin which was sufficient answer to the
second question, while he could not but think
that the best safe-guard against the danger of
bitterness lay in her very evident love and loyalty
to her father.

Erica in the meantime sat stroking her cat
Friskarina, and wondering a little who her visitor
could be. She liked him very much and could

not help responding to the bright kindly eyes
which seemed to plead for confidence ; though
he was such an entire stranger, she found
herself quite naturally opening out her heart to
him.

I am to take notes at my father's meeting
to-night,' she said, breaking the silence, ' and
perhaps write the account of it afterwards too ;
and there's such a delightfully funny man coming
to speak on the other side,'

Mr. Randolph is it not V

Yes, a sort of male Mrs. Malaprop. Oh,
such fun !' and, at the remembrance of some
past encounter, Erica's eyes positively danced
with laughter. But the next minute she was
very grave.

I came to speak to Mr. Raeburn about this
evening said Charles Osmond. ' Do you know
if he has heard of a rumour that this Mr. Randolph
has hired a baud of roughs to interrupt
the meeting V

Erica made an indignant exclamation.

Perhaps that was what the telegram was
about,' she continued, after a moment's thought.

We found it here when we came hi. Father
said nothing, but went out very quickly to answer
it. Oh ! now we shall have a dreadful
time of it, I suppose, and perhaps he'll get hurt
again. I did hope they had given up that sort
of thing.'

She looked so troubled that Charles Osmond
regretted he had said anything, and hastened
to assure her that what he had heard was
the merest rumour, and very possibly not
true.

I am afraid,' she said, ' it is too bad not to be
true.'

It struck Charles Osmond that that was
about the saddest little sentence he had ever
heard.

Partly wishing to change the subject, partly
from real interest, he made some remark about
a lovely little picture, the only one in the room ;
its frame was lighted up by the flickering blaze,
and even in the imperfect light he could see that
the subject was treated in no ordinary way. It
w^^^s a little bit of the Thames far away from
London, with a bank of many-tinted trees on

one side, aud out beyond a range of low bills,
purple in the evening light. In the skj was a
rosy sunset glow, melting above into saffron
colour, and this was reflected in the water,
gilding and mellowing the foreground of sedge
and water-lilies. But what made the picture
specially charming was that the artist bad
really caught the peculiar solemn stillness of
evening ; merely to look at that quiet, peaceful
river brought a feeling of bush and calmness.
It seemed a strange picture to find as the sole
ornament in the study of a man wbo bad all
bis life been fighting the world.

Erica brightened up again, and seemed to
forget ber anxiety when be questioned ber as
to the artist.

There is such a nice story about that picture,'
sbe said, ' I always like to look at it. It was
about two years ago one very cold winter's
day, and a woman came with some oil-paintings
wbicb sbe was trying to sell for ber husband,
wbo was ill : be was rather a good artist, but
bad been in bad bealtb for a long time, till at
last sbe bad really come to bawling about ibis

pictures in this way, because they were in such
dreadful distress. Father was very much worried
just then, there was a horrid libel case
going on, and that morning he was very busy,
and he sent the woman away rather sharply,
said he had no time to listen to her. Then
presently he was vexed with himself because
she really had looked in great trouble, and he
thought he had been harsh, and, though he
was dreadfully pressed for time he would go
out into the square to see if he couldn't find her
again. I went with him, and we had walked
all round and had almost given her up, when
we caught sight of her coming out of a house
on the opposite side. And then it was so
nice father spoke so kindly to her, and found
out more about her history, and said that he
was too poor to buy her pictures ; but she looked
dreadfully tired and cold, so he asked her to
come in and rest, and she came and sat by the
fire, and stayed to dinner with us, and we looked
at her pictures, because she seemed so proud
of them and liked us to. One of them was
that little river-scene, which father took a great
VOL. I. E

saucy to, and praised a great deal. She left usher
address, and later on, when the libel case
was ended, and father had got damages, and so
had a little spare money, he sent some to this
poor artist, and they were so grateful, though,
do you know, I think the dinner pleased them
more than the money, and they would insist on
sending this picture to father. I'll light the
gas, and then you'll see it better.'

She twisted a piece of paper into a spill, and
put an end to the gloaming. Charles Osmond
stood up to get a nearer view of the painting,
and Erica, too, drew nearer, and looked at it fora
minute in silence.

Father took me up the Thames once,' she
said, by-and-by. 'It was so lovely. Some
day, when all these persecutions are over, weare
going to have a beautiful tour, and see all
sorts of places. But I don't know when they

will be over ! As soon as one bigot ' she

broke off suddenly, with a stifled exclamation
of dismay.

Charles Osmond, in the dim light, with his
long grey beard, had not betrayed his clerical

-dress ; but glancing round at him now, she saw
at once that the stranger to whom she had
spoken so unreservedly was by no means one of
her father's followers.

Well !' he said, smiling, half understanding
her confusion.

You are a clergyman !' she almost gasped.

Yes; why not r

1 beg your pardon, I never thought — you
seemed so much too '

Too what?' urged Charles Osmond. Then,
as she still hesitated, ' Now, you must really let
me hear the end of that sentence, or I shall imagine
everything dreadful !'

Too nice murmured Erica, wishing that
she could sink through the floor.

But the confession so tickled Charles Osmond
that he laughed aloud, and his laughter was so
infectious that Erica, in spite of her confusion,
could not help joining in it. She had a very
keen sense of the ludicrous, and the position
was, undoubtedly, a laughable one ; still there
were certain appalling recollections of the past
conversation which soon made her serious

E 2

LIBRARY

UMiVERSJTY OF ILLINOIS

again. She had talked of persecutions to one
who was, at any rate, on the side of the persecutors
; had alluded to bigots, and, worst of all,
had spoken in no measured terms of ' tiresome
Christians.'

She turned, rather shyly, and yet with a
touch of dignity, to her visitor, and said,

'It was very careless of me not to notice
more; but it was dark, and I am not used to
seeing any but our own people here. I am
afraid I said things which must have hurt you :
I wished you had stopped me.'

The beautiful colour had spread and deepened
in her cheeks, and there was something
indescribably sweet and considerate in her
tone of apology. Charles Osmond was touched
by it.

It is I who should apologise,' he said. ' I
am not at all sure that I was justified in
sitting there quietly, knowing that you were
under a delusion ; but it is always very delightful
to me in this artificial world to meet anyone
who talks quite naturally, and the interest of
hearing your view of the question kept me

silent. You must forgive me, and as you know
I'm too nice to be a clergyman '

Oh, I beg your pardon ! How rude I have
been,' cried Erica, blushing anew, ' but you did
make me say it.'

Of course and I take it as a high compliment
from you,' said Charles Osmond, laughing
again at the recollection. ^ Come, may we not
seal our friendship ? We have been sufficiently
frank with each other to be something more
than acquaintances for the future.'

Erica held out her hand and found it
taken in a strong, firm clasp, which somehow
conveyed much more than an ordinary handshake.


'And, after all, you are too nice for a clergyman
I' she thought to herself. Then, as a fresh
idea crossed her mind, she suddenly exclaimed,
But you came to tell us about Mr. Randolph's
roughs, did you not % How came you to care
that we should know beforehand f

Why, naturally, I hoped that a disturbance
might be stopped.'

Is it natural?' questioned Erica. 'I should

have thought it more natural for you to think
with your own party.'

But peace and justice and freedom of speech
must all stand before party questions.'

Yet you think that we are wrong and that
Christianity is right V

Yes, but to my mind perfect justice is part
of Christianity.'

Oh said Erica, in a tone which meant unutterable
things.

You think that Christians do not show perfect
justice to you?' said Charles Osmond, reading
her thoughts.

I can't say I think they do,' she replied.
Then, suddenly firing up at the recollection of
her afternoon's experiences, she said, ' They are
not just to us, though they preach justice ; they
are not loving, though they talk about love !
If they want us to think their religion true, I
wonder they don't practise it a little more and
preach it less. What is the use of talking of
brotherly kindness and charity " when they
hardly treat us like human beings, when the"
make up wicked lies about us, and will hardly

let lis sit in the same room with them V

Come now, we really are sitting in the same
room said Charles Osmond, smiling.

Oh, dear, what am I to do !' exclaimed Erica.
I can't remember that you are one of them !
you are so very unlike most.'

I think,' said Charles Osmond, ' you have
come across some very bad specimens.'

Erica in her heart considered her visitor as
the exception which proved the rule ; but, not
wishing to lee caught tripping again, she resolved
to say no more upon the subject.

Let us talk of something else,' she said.

Something nicer V said Charles Osmond,
with a little mischievous twinkle in his eyes.

Safer,' said Erica, laughing. ' But, stop, I
hear my father.'

She went out into the passage to meet him.
Charles Osmond heard her explaining his visit
and the news he had brought, heard Raeburn's
brief responses ; then, in a few moments , the
two entered the room a; picturesque-looking
couple, the clergyman thought, the tall, stately
man with his broad forehead and overshadowing

masses of auburn hair, the little, eager-faced
impetuous girl so-winsome in her unconventional
frankness.

The conversation became a trifle more ceremonious,
though with Erica perched on the arm
of her father's chair, ready to squeeze his hand
at every word which pleased her, it could hardly
become stiff. Raeburn had just heard the report
of Mr. Randolph's scheme and had already
taken precautionary measures ; but he was surprised
and gratified that Charles Osmond should
have troubled to bring him word about it. The
two men talked on with the most perfect friendliness,
and by-and-by, to Erica's great delight,
Charles Osmond expressed a wish to be present
at the meeting that night, and made inquiries
as to the time and place.

Oh, couldn't you stay to tea and go with us V
she exclaimed, forgetting for the third time that
he was a clergyman, and offering the ready
hospitality she would have offered to anyone
else.

I should be delighted,' he said, smiling, ' if
you can really put up with one of the cloth.'

Raeburn, amused at his daughter's spontaneous
hospitality and pleased with the friendly
acceptance it had met with, was quite ready to
second the invitation. Erica was delighted ;
she carried off the cat and the toast into the
next room, eager to tell her mother all about
the visitor.

The most delightful man, mother, not a bit
like a clergyman ! I didn't jSnd out for ever so
long what he was, and said all sorts of dreadful
things, but he didn't mind and was not the
least offended.'

When will J'ou learn to be cautious, I wonders
said Mrs. Raeburn, smiling. ' You are a
shocking little chatterton.'

And as Erica flitted busily about, arranging
the tea-table, her mother watched her half
amusedly, half anxiously. She had always
been remarkably frank and outspoken, and
there was something so transparently sincere
about her that she seldom gave offence; but
the mother could not help wondering how it
would be as she grew older and mixed with a
greater variety of people. In fact, in every

way she was anxious about the child's future,
for Erica's was a somewhat perplexing character,
and seemed very ill-fitted for her position.

Eric Haeberlein had once compared her to a
violin, and there was a good deal of truth in
his idea. She was very sensitive, responding
at once to the merest touch, and easily moved
to admiration and devoted love, or to strong
indignation. Naturally high-spirited, she was
subject, too, to fits of depression, and was
always either in the heights or the depths. Yet
With all these characteristics was blended her
father's indomitable courage and tenacity;
though feeling the thorns of life far more keenly
than most people, she was one of those who
will never yield ; though pricked and wounded
by outward events, she would never be conquered
by circumstance. At present her capabilities
for adoration, which were very great, were
lavished in two directions : in the abstract she
worshipped intellect, in the concrete she worshipped
her father.

From the grief and indignation of the afternoon,
she had passed with extraordinary rapidity

to a state of merriment which would have been
incomprehensible to one who did not understand
her peculiarly complex character. Mrs. Raeburn
listened with a good deal of amusement to
her racy description of Charles Osmond.

Strange that this should have happened so
soon after our talk this afternoon,' she said,
musingly. 'Perhaps it is as well that you
should have a glimpse of the other side, against
which you were inveighing, or you might be
growing narrow.'

He is much too good to belong to them V
said Erica, enthusiastically.

As she spoke, Raeburn entered, bringing the
visitor with him, and they all sat down to their
meal, Erica pouring out tea and attending to
everyone's wants, fondling her cat, and listening
to the conversation, with all the time a curious
perception that to sit down to table with one of
her father's opponents was a very novel experience.
She could not help speculating as to the
thoughts and impressions of her companions.
Her mother was, she thought, pleased and-interested,
for about her worn face there was

the look of contentment which invariably came
when for a time the bitterness of the struggle
of life was broken by any sign of friendliness.
Her father was — as he generally was in his own
house — quiet, gentle in manner, ready to be both
an attentive and an interested listener. This
gift he had almost as markedly as the gift of
speech ; he at once perceived that his guest was
no ordinary man, and by a sort of instinct he
had discovered on what subjects he was best
calculated to speak, and wherein they could
gain most from him. Charles Osmond's thoughts
she could only speculate about ; but that he was
ready to take them all as friends, and did not
regard them as a different order of beings, was
plain.

The conversation had drifted into regions of
abstruse science, when Erica, who had been
listening attentively, was altogether diverted
by the entrance of the servant, who brought hera
brown-paper parcel. Eagerly opening it, she
was almost bewildered by the delightful surprise
of finding a complete edition of Longfellow's
poems, bound in dark-blue morocco.

Inside was written, ' From another admirer of
'' Hiawatha." '

She started np with a rapturous exclamation,
and the two men paused in their talk, each unable
to help watching the beautiful little face all
aglow with happiness. Erica almost danced
round the room with her new treasure.

What heavenly person can have sent me
this !' she cried. * Look, father ! Did you ever
see such a beauty !'

Science went to the winds and Raeburn gave
all his sympathy to Erica and Longfellow.

The very thing you were wishing for ! Who
could have sent it?'

I can't think ! It can't be Tom, because I
know he's spent all his money, and Auntie
would never call herself an admirer of " Hiawa-
than'' nor Herr Haeberlein, nor Monsieur Noirol,
nor anyone I can think of.'

Dealings with the fairies,' said Raeburn,
smiling. ' Your beggar-child with the scones suddenly
transformed into a beneficent rewarder.'

Not from you, father?'
Raeburn laughed.

A pretty substantial fairy for you ! No, uo,
I had no hand in it. I can't give yon presents
while I am in debt, my bairn.'

soh, isn't it jolly to get what one wants!*
said Erica, with a fervour which made the three
grown-up people laugh.

Very jolly,' said Raeburn, giving her a little
mute caress. 'But now, Eric, please to go back
and eat something, or I shall have my reporter
fainting in the middle of a speech.'

She obeyed, carrying away the book with her
and enlivening them with extracts from it ;
once delightedly discovering a most appropriate
passage.

^ Why, of course !' she exclaimed, ' you and
Mr. Osmond, father, are smoking the Peace-pipe!'
And with much force and animation
she read them bits from the first canto.

Raeburn left the room before long to get
ready for his meeting, but Erica still lingered
over her new treasure, putting it down at
length with great reluctance to prepare her
note-book and sharpen her pencil.

'Isn't that a delightful bit where Hiawatha

was angry she said, ' it has been running in my

head all day —

' For his heart was hot within him,
Like a living coal his heart was."

That's what I shall feel like to-night when

Mr. Randolph attacks father.'

She ran upstairs to dress, and, as the door
closed upon her, Mrs. Raeburn turned to Charles
Osmond with a sort of apology.

She finds it very hard not to speak out her
thoughts ; it will often ^-et her into trouble, I
am afraid.'

It is too fresh and delightful to be checked
though,' said Charles Esmond 'I assure you
she has taught me many a lesson to-night.'

The mother talked on almost unreservedly
about the subject that was evidently nearest
her heart — the difficulties of Erica's education,
the harshness they so often met with, the harm
it so evidently did the child — till the subject
of the conversation came down again, much
too excited and happy to care just then for
any unkind treatment. Had she not got a
Longfellow of her Very own, and did not

that unexpected pleasure make up for a thousand
privations and discomforts !

Yet, with all her childishness and impetuosity,
Erica was womanly too, as Charles
Osmond saw by the way she waited on her
mother, thinking of everything which the
invalid could possibly want while they were
gone, brightening the whole place with her
sunshiny presence. Whatever else was lacking,
there was no lack of love in this house.
The tender considerateness which softened
Erica's impetuosity in her mother's presence,
the loving comprehension between parent and
child, was very beautiful to see.

CHAPTER IV.

^ SUPPOSING IT IS TRUE !'

A man "who strives earnestly and perseveringly to convince
others, at least convinces us that he is convinced

himself.

Guesses at Truth.

The rainy afternoon had given place to a
fine and starlight night. Erica, apparently ia
high spirits, walked between her father and
Charles Osmond.

'Mother won't be anxious about us,' she
said. ' She has not heard a word about Mr.
Randolph's plans. I was so afraid some one
would speak about it at tea-time, and then she
would have been in a fright all the evening,
and would not have liked my going.'

VOL. I. F

'Mr. Randolph is both energetic and unscrupulous,'
said Raeburn. ' But I doubt if even
he would set his roughs upon you, little one,
unless he has become as bloodthirsty as a
certain old Scotch psalm we used to sing.'

'What was that?' questioned Erica.

*I forget the beginning, but the last verse
always had a sort of horrible fascination for
vs —

How happy should that trooper be
Who, riding on a maggie,
Should take thy little children up,
And dash them 'gin the craigie !'"

Charles Osmond and Erica laughed heartily.


They will only dash you against metaphorical
rocks in the nineteenth century,' continued
Raeburn. ' I remember wondering why the
old clerk in my father's church always sang
that verse so lustily ; but you see we have exactly
the same spirit now, only in a more civilised
form, barbarity changed to polite cruelty,
as for instance the way you were treated this
afternoon.'

'Ob, don't talk about that,' said Erica,
quickly, 'I am going to enjoy my Longfellow
and forget the rest.'

In truth, Charles Osmond was struck with
this both in the father and daughter ; each had
a ways of putting back their bitter thoughts,
of dwelling whenever it was possible on the
brighter side of life. He knew that Raeburn
was involved in most harassing litigation, was
burdened with debt, was confronted everywhere
with bitter and often violent opposition
; yet he seemed to live above it all for
there was a wonderful repose about him, an
extraordinary serenity in his aspect, which
would have seemed better fitted to a hermit
than to one who had spent his life in fighting
against desperate odds. One thing was quite
clear, the man was absolutely convinced that he
was suffering for the truth, and was ready to endure
anything in what he considered the service
of his fellow-men. He did not seem particularly
anxious as to the evening's proceedings. On the
whole, they were rather a merry party as they
walked along Gower Street to the station.

f2

But when they got out again at their destination,
and walked through the busy streets to
the hall where the lecture was to be given, a
sort of seriousness fell upon all three. They
were each going to work in their different
ways for what they considered the good of
humanity, and instinctively a silence grew and
deepened.

Erica was the first to break it as they came

in sight of the hall.

What a crowd there is !' she exclaimed. ' Are
these Mr. Randolph's roughs ?'

We can put up with them outside,' said
Raeburn ; but Charles Osmond noticed that ashe
spoke he drew the child nearer to him, with a
momentary look of trouble in his face, as though
he shrank from taking her through the rabble.
Erica, on the other hand, looked interested and
perfectly fearless. With great difficulty they
forced their way on, hooted and yelled at by
the mob, who, however, made no attempt at
violence. At length, reaching the shelter of the
entrance lobby, Raebiu-n left them for a moment,
pausing to give directions to the doorkeepers.

Just then, to his great surprise, Charles Osmond
caught sight of his son standing only a few
paces from them. His exclamation of astonishment
made Erica look up. Brian came forward
eagerly to meet them.

You here !' exclaimed his father, with a latent
suspicion confirmed into a certainty. * This
is my son. Miss Raeburn.'

Brian had not dreamed of meeting her, he had
waited about, curious to see how Raeburn would
get on with the mob ; it was with a strange pang
of rapture and dismay that he had seen his fair
little ideal That she should be in the midst of
that hooting mob made his heart throb with indignation,
yet there was something so sweet
in her grave stedfast face that he was, nevertheless,
glad to have witnessed the scene. Her
colour was rather heightened, her eyes bright
but very quiet, yet as Charles Osmond spoke,
and she looked at Brian, her face all at once
lighted up, and with an irresistible smile she
exclaimed, in the most childlike of voices,

Why, it's my umbrella man !' The informality
of the exclamation seemed to make them at once

something more than ordinary acquaintances;
They told Charles Osmond of their encounter in
the afternoon, and in a very few minutes Brian,
hardly knowing whether he were not in some
strange dream, found himself sitting with his
father and Erica in a crowded lecture hall realising
with an intensity of joy and an intensity
of pain how near he was to the queen of his
heart and yet how far from her.

The meeting was quite orderly. Though
Auburn was addressing many who disagreed
with him, he had evidently got the whole and
undivided attention of his audience ; and indeed
his gifts both as rhetorician and orator
were so great that they must have been either
wilfully deaf or obtuse who, when under the
spell of his extraordinary earnestness and eloquence,
could resist listening. Not a word was
lost on Brian ; every sentence which emphasised
the great difference of belief between himself
and his love seemed to engrave itself on his
heart; no minutest detail of that evening escaped
him.

He saw the tall, commanding figure of the orator,

the vast sea of upturned faces below, the
eager attention imprinted on all sometimes a
wave of sympathy and approval sweeping over
them, resulting in a storm of applause, at times
a more divided disapproval, or a shout of ' No,
no,' which invariably roused the speaker to a
more vigorous, clear, and emphatic repetition of
the questioned statement. And, through all, he
was ever conscious of the young girl at his side,
who with her head bent over her note-book was
absorbed in her work. While the most vital questions
of life were being discussed, he was yet
always aware of that hand travelling rapidly to
and fro, of the pages hurriedly turned, of the
quick yet weary looking change of posture.

Though not without a strong vein of sarcasm,
Auburn's speech was, on the whole, temperate ;
it certainly should have been met with consideration.
But, unfortunately, Mr. Randolph was incapable
of seeing any good in his opponent ; his
combative instincts were far stronger than his
Christianity, and Brian, who had winced many
times, while listening to the champion of atheism,
was even more keenly wounded by the champion

of his own cause. Abusive epithets abounded
in his retort ; at last he left the subject under
discussion altogether, and launched into personalities
of the most objectionable kind. Raeburn
sat with folded arms, listening with a sort of
cold dignity. He looked very different now from
the genial-mannered, quiet man whom Charles
Osmond had seen in his own home but an hour
or two ago. There was a peculiar look in his
tawny eyes hardly to be described in words, a
look which was hard, and cold, and steady. It
told of an originally sensitive nature, inured to
ill-treatment ; of a strong will which had long
ago steeled itself to endure ; of a character which,
though absolutely refusing to yield to opposition,
had grown slightly bitter, even slightly
vindictive in the process.

Brian could only watch in silent pain the
little figure beside him. Once at some violent
term of abuse she looked up, and glanced
for a moment at the speaker ; he just caught a
swift, indignant flash from her bright eyes, then
her head was bent lower than before over her
note-book, and the carnation deepened in her

cheek, whilst her pencil sped over the paper fast
and furiously. Presently came a sharp retort
from Raebnrn, ending with the perfectly warrantable
accusation that Mr. Randolph was
wandering from the subject of the evening
merely to indulge his personal spite. The audience
was beginning to be roused by the unfairness,
and a storm might have ensued had not
Mr. Randolph unintentionally turned the whole
proceedings from tragedy to farce.

Indignant at Raeburn's accusation he sprang
to his feet and began a vigorous protest.

^ Mr. Chairman, I denounce my opponent as a
liar. His accusation is utterly false. I deny
the allegation, and I scorn the allegator !'

He was interrupted by a shout of laughter,
the whole assembly was convulsed, even Erica's
anger changed to mirth.

Fit for Punch she whispered to Brian, her
face all beaming with merriment.

Raeburn, whose grave face had also relaxed
into a smile, suddenly stood up, and, with a
sort of dry Scotch humour, remarked,

My enemies have compared me to many obnoxious

things, but never till to-night have I
been called a crocodile ! Possibly Mr. Randolph
has been reading of the crocodiles recently dissected
at Paris. It has been discovered that
they are almost brainless, and , being without
reason, are probably animated by a violent instinct
of destruction. 1 believe, however, that
the power of their "jaw " is unsurpassed !'

Then, amidst shouts of laughter and applause,,
he sat down again, leaving the field to the
much discomfited Mr. Randolph.

Much harm had been done that evening to
the cause of Christianity. The sympathies of
the audience could not be with the weak
and unmannerly Mr. Randolph ; they were
Englishmen, and were, of course, inclined to
side with the man who had been unjustly dealt
with, who, moreover, had really spoken to
them — had touched their very hearts.

The field was practically lost when, to the
surprise of all, another speaker came forward.
Erica, who knew that their side had had the
best of it, felt a thrill of admiration when she
saw Charles Osmond move slowly to the front

of the platform. She was very tired, but out of
a sort of gratitude for his friendliness, a readiness
to do him honour, she strained her energies
to take dovrn his speech verbatim. It was not a
long one, it was hardly, perhaps, to be called a
speech at all, it was rather as if the man had
thrown his very self into the breach made by
the unhappy wrangle of the evening.

He spoke of the universal brotherhood and of
the wrong done to it by bitterness and strife ; he
stood there as the very incarnation of brotherliness,
and the people, whether they agreed
with him or not, loved him. In the place where
the religion of Christ had been reviled as well
by the Christian as by the atheist, he spoke of
the revealer of the Father, and a hush fell on the
listening men ; he spoke of the Founder of the
great brotherhood, and by the very reality, by
the fervour of his convictions, touched a new
chord in many a heart. It was no time for
argument, the meeting was almost over ; he
scarcely attempted an answer to many of th
difficulties and objections raised by Raebura
earlier in the evening. But there was in his



ten minutes' speech the whole essence of
Christianity, the spirit of loving sacrifice of
self, the strength of an absolute certainty which
no argument, however logical, can shake, the
extraordinary power which breathes in the assertion,
'I how Him whom 1 have believed.'

To more than one of Raeburn's followers
there came just the slightest agitation of doubt,
the questioning whether these things might not
be. For the first time in her life the question
began to stir in Erica's heart. She had heard
many advocates of Christianity, and had regarded
them much as we might regard Buddhist
missionaries speaking of a religion that
had had its day and was now only fit to be discarded,
or perhaps studied as an interesting
relic of the past, about which in its later years
many corruptions had gathered.

Raeburn, being above all things a just man,
had been determined to give her mind no bias
in favour of his own views, and as a child he
had left her perfectly free. But there was a
certain Scotch proverb which he did not call to
mind, that ' As the auld cock craws, the young

cock learns.' When the time came at which he
considered her old enough really to study the
Bible for herself, she had already learnt from
bitter experience that Christianity — at any rate,
what called itself Christianity — was the religion
whose votaries were constantly slandering and
ill-treating her father, and that all the privations
and troubles of their life were directly or
indirectly due to it. She of course identified
the conduct of the most unfriendly and persecuting
with the religion itself; it could hardly
be otherwise.

But to-night as she toiled away, bravely acting
up to her lights, taking down the opponent's
speech to the best of her abilities, though predisposed
to think it all a meaningless rhapsody,
the faintest attempt at a question began to take
shape in her mind. It did not form itself exactly
into words, but just lurked there like a cloud-shadow,
— 'Supposing Christianity were true?'

All doubt is pain. Even this faint beginning
of doubt in her creed made Erica dreadfully
uncomfortable. Yet she could not regret that
Charles Osmond had spoken, even though she

imagined him to be greatly mistaken, and feared
that that uncomfortable question might have
been suggested to others among the audience.
She could not wish that the speech had not
been made, for it had revealed the nobility of
the man, his broad-hearted love, and she instinctively
reverenced all the really great and
good, however widely different their creeds.

Brian tried in vain to read her thoughts ; but
as soon as the meeting was over her temporary
seriousness vanished, and she was once more
almost a child again, ready to be amused by
anything. She stood for a few minutes talking
to the two Osmonds ; then, catching sight of an
acquaintance a little way off, she bade them a
hasty good-night, much to Brian's chagrin, and
hurried forward with a warmth of greeting
which he could only hope was appreciated by
the thick-set honest-looking mechanic who
was the happy recipient. When they left the
ball, she was still deep in conversation with
him.

The fates Avere kind, however, to Brian that
day ; they were just too late for a train, and

before the next one arrived, Eaeburn and Erica
were seen slowly coming down the steps, and
in another minute had joined them on the platform.
Charles Osmond and Raeburn fell into an
amicable discussion, and Brian, to his great satisfaction,
was left to an uninterrupted tete-astute
with Erica. There had been no further demonstration
by the crowd, and Erica, now that the
anxiety was over, was ready to make fun of Mr.
Randolph and his band, checking herself every
now and then for fear of hurting her companion ,
but breaking forth again and again into irresistible
merriment as she recalled the ' alligator '
incident and other grotesque utterances. All
too soon they reached their destination. There
was still, however, a ten minutes' walk before
them, a walk which Brian never forgot. The
wind was high, and it seemed to excite Erica ;
he could always remember exactly how she
looked, her eyes bright and shining, her short,
auburn hair all blown about by the wind, one
stray wave lying across the quaint little sealskin
hat. He remembered, too, how, in the
middle of his argument, Raeburn had stepped

forward, and had wrapped a white woollen
scarf more closely round the child, securing the
fluttering ends. Brian would have liked to doit
himself had he dared, and yet it pleased him,
too, to see the father's thoughtfulness ; perhaps,
in that ' touch of nature,' he for the first time
fully recognised his kinship with the atheist.

Erica talked to him in the meantime with a
delicious, childlike frankness, gave him an enthusiastic
account of her friend Hazeldine, the
working-man whom he had seen her speaking
to, and unconsciously revealed in her free conversation
a great deal of the life she led, a busy,
earnest, self-denying life Brian could see. When
they reached the place of their afternoon's encounter,
she alluded merrily to what she called
the 'charge of umbrellas.'

Who would have thought, now, that in a
few hours' time we should have learnt to know-each
other !' she exclaimed. ' It has been altogether
the very oddest day, a sort of sandwich
of good and bad, two bits of the dry bread of
persecution but in between, you and Mr. Osmond
and my beautiful new Longfellow.'

Brian could not help laughing at the simile,
and was not a little pleased to hear the reference
to his book ; but his amusement was soon
dispelled by a grim little incident. Just at that
minute they happened to pass an undertaker's
cart which was standing at the door of one of
the houses ; a coffin was borne across the pavement
in front of them. Erica, with a quick
exclamation, put her hand on his arm and
shrank back to make room for the bearers to
pass. Looking down at her, he saw that she
was quite pale. The coffin was carried into the
house and they passed on.

*HowIdo hate seeing anything like that!'
she exclaimed. Then looking back and up to
the windows of the house, 'Poor people I I
Wonder whether they are very sad. It seems
to make all the world dark when one comes
across things like that. Father thinks it is
good to be reminded of the end, that it makes
one more eager to work, but he doesn't even
wish for anything after death, nor do any of the
best people I know. It is silly of me, but I
never can bear to think of quite coming to an
VOL. I. G

end, I suppose because I am not so unselfish as
the others.'

Or may it not be a natural instinct which is
implanted in all, which perhaps you have not
yet crushed by argument.'

Erica shook her head.

More likely to be a Httle bit of one of my
covenanting ancestors coming out in me. Still
I own that the hope of the hereafter is the one
point in which you have the better of it. Life
must seem very easy if you believe that all will
be made up to you and all wrong set right
after you are dead. You see we have rather
hard measure here, and don't expect anything
at all by-and-by. But all the same I am always
rather ashamed of this instinct, or selfishness,
or Scottish inheritance, whichever it is !'

Ashamed ! why should you be V

It is a sort of weakness, I think, which
strong characters like my father are without.
You see he cares so much for everyone, and
thinks so much of making the world a little less
miserable in this generation, but most of my
love is for him and for my mother ; and so when

I think of death — of their death ' she broke

off abruptly.

Yet do not call it selfishness,' said Brian,
with a slightly choked feeling, for there had
been a depth of pain in Erica's tone. * My father,
who has just that love of humanity of which you
speak, has still the most absolute belief in — yes,
and longing for — immortality. It is no selfishness
in him.'

*I am sure it is not,' said Erica, warmly, 'I
shouldn't think he could be selfish in any way.
I am glad he spoke to-night ; it does one good
to hear a speech like that, even if one doesn't
agree with it. I wish there were a few more
clergymen like him, then perhaps the tolerance
and brotherliness he spoke of might become possible.
But it must be a long way off, or it
would not seem such an unheard-of thing that
I should be talking like this to you. Why, it is
the first time in my whole life that I have
spoken to a Christian except on the most everyday
subjects.'

Then I hope you won't let it be the last,'
said Brian.

g2

I should like to know Mr. Osmond better
said Erica , ' for you know it seems very extraordinary
to me that a clever scientific man can
speak as he spoke to-night. I should like to
know how you reconcile all the contradictions,
how you can believe what seems to me so unlikely,
how even if you do believe in a God you
can think Him good while the world is what it
is. If there is a good God why doesn't he
make us all know him, and end all the evil and
cruelty V

Brian did not reply for a moment. The familiar
gaslit streets, the usual number of passengers,
the usual careworn or viceworn faces passing by,
damp pavements, muddy roads, fresh winter
wind, all seemed so natural, but to talk of the
deepest things in heaven and earth was so unnatural
! He was a very reserved man, but
looking down at the eager, questioning face
beside him his reserve all at once melted.
He spoke very quietly, but in a voice which
showed Erica that he was, at least, as she
expressed it 'honestly deluded.' Evidently he
did from his very heart believe what he said.

But how are we to judge what is best V he
replied. ' My belief is that God is slowly and
gradually educating the world, not forcing it on
unnaturally, but drawing it on step by step,
making it work out its own lessons as the best
teachers do with their pupils. To mettle idea of
a steady progression, in which man himself maybe
a co-worker with God, is far more beautiful
than the conception of a Being who does not
work by natural laws at all, but arbitrarily
causes this and that to be or not to be.'

but then if your God is educating the
world, He is educating many of us in ignorance
of Himself, in atheism. How can that be good
or right'? Surely you, for instance, must be
rather puzzled when you come across atheists,
if you believe in a perfect God, and think
atheism the most fearful mistake possible V

If I could not believe that God can, and
does, educate some of us through atheism I
should indeed be miserable,' said Brian, with a
thrill of pain in his voice which startled Erica.
But I do believe that even atheism, even blank
ignorance of Him, may be a stage through.

^ which alone some of us can be brought onward.

• The noblest man I ever knew passed through

that stage, and I can't think he would have

C=i5: been half the man he is if he had not passed

through it.'

I have only known two or three people who
from atheists became theists, and they were
horrid !' said Erica, emphatically. * People
always are spiteful to the side they have left.'

You could not say that of my friend said
Brian, musingly. ' I wish you could meet
him.'

They had reached the entrance to Guilford
Terrace , Auburn and Charles Osmond over-^
took them, and the conversation ended abruptly*
Perhaps because Erica had made no answer to
the last remark, and was conscious of a touch
of malice in her former speech she put a little
additional warmth into her farewell. At any
rate, there was that which touched Brian's very
heart in the frank innocence of her hand-clasp,
in the sweet yet questioning eyes that were
raised to his.

He turned away, happier and yet sadder than

he had ever been in his life. Not a word passed
between him and his father as they crossed
the square, but when they reached home they
instinctively drew together over the study fire.
There was a long silence even then, broken at
last by Charles Osmond.

Well, my son V he said.

I cannot see how I can be of the least use to
her,' said Brian, abruptly, as if his father had
been following the whole of his train of
thought, which, indeed to a certain extent he
had.

Was this afternoon your first meeting V

Our first speaking. I have seen her many
times, but only to-day realised what she
is.'

Well, your little Undine is very bewitching,
and much more than bewitching, true to the
core and loyal and loving. If only the hardness
of her life does not embitter her, I think
she will make a grand woman.'

Tell me what you did this afternoon said
Brian, ' you must have been some time with
them.'

Charles Osmond told him all that had passed
; the continued,

She is, as I said, a fascinating bright little
Undine, inclined to be wilful, I should fancy,
and with a sort of warmth and quickness about
her whole character ; in many ways still a child,
and yet in others strangely old for her years ;
on the whole I should say as fair a specimen of
the purely natural being as you would often
meet with. The spiritual part of her is, I fancy,
asleep.'

No, I fancy to-night has made it stir for the
first time,' said Brian, and he told his father a
little of what had passed between himself and
Erica.

^ And the Longfellow was, 1 suppose, from
you,' said Charles Osmond. ' I wish you could
have seen her delight over it ! Words absolutely
failed her. I don't think anyone else noticed
it, but, her own vocabulary coming to an end,
she turned to ours, it was '' What heavenly person
can have sent me this?" '

Brian smiled but sighed too.

One talks of the spiritual side remaining

untouched,' he said, ^ yet how is it ever to be
otherwise than chained and fettered, while such
men as that Randolph are recognised as the
champions of our cause, while injustice and unkindness
meet her at every turn, while it is
something rare and extraordinary for a Christian
to speak a kind word to her ! If to-day
she has first realised that Christians need not
necessarily behave as brutes, I have realised a
little what life is from her point of view.' '

Then realising that perhaps you may help
her, perhaps another chapter of the old legend
may come true, and you may be the means of
waking the spirit in your Undine.'

I ? Oh, no ! How can you think of it !
You or Donovan, perhaps, but even that idea
seems to me wildly improbable.'

There was something in his humility and
sadness which touched his father inexpressibly.


Well he said, after a pause, ' if you are
really prepared for all the suffering this love
must bring you, if you mean to take it, and
cherish it, and live for it, even though it brings

you no gain, but apparent pain and loss, then I
think it can only raise both you and your
Undine.'

Brian knew that not one man in a thousand
would have spoken in such a way : his father's
unworldliness was borne in upon him as it had
never been before. Greatly as he had always
reverenced and loved him, to-night his love and
reverence deepened unspeakably — the two were
drawn nearer to each other than ever.

It was not the habit in this house to make
the most sacred ties of life the butt for ill-timed
and ill-judged joking. No knight of old thought
or spoke more reverently or with greater reserve
of his lady-love than did Brian of Erica.
He regarded himself now as one bound to do
her service, consecrated from that day forward
as her loyal knight.

CHAPTER V.

Erica RESOLVE.

Men are tattooed with their special beliefs like so many
South-sea Islanders ; but a real human heart, with Divine
love in it, beats with the same glow under all the patterns
of all earth's thousand tribes.

O. Wendell Holmes.

For the next fortnight Brian and Erica continued
to pass each other every afternoon in
Gower Street, as they had done for so long, the
only difference was that now they greeted each
other, that occasionally Brian would be rendered
happy for the rest of the day by some brief,
passing remark from his Undine, or by one of
her peculiarly bright smiles. One day, however,
she actually stopped ; her face was
radiant.

1 must just tell you our good news,' she
said. ^ My father has won his case, and has got
heavy damages.'

'lam very glad,' said Brian. 'It must be a
great relief to you all to have it over.'

Immense I Father looks as if a ton's weight
had been taken off his mind ! Now I hope we
shall have a little peace.'

With a hasty good-bye, she hurried on an
unusual elasticity in her light footsteps. In
Guilford Square she met a political friend of her
father's, and was brought once more to a standstill.
This time it was a little unwillingly, for
Monsieur Noirol teased her unmercifully, and at
their last meeting had almost made her angry by
talking of a friend of his at Paris who offered untold
advantages to any clever and well-educated
English girl who wished to learn the language,
and who would in return teach her own. Erica
had been made miserable by the mere suggestion
that such a situation Avould suit her ; the
slightest hint that it might be well for her to
go abroad had roused in her a sort of terror lest
her father might ever seriously think of the

scheme. She had not quite forgiven Monsieur
Noirol for having spoken, although the proposal
had not been gravely made, and probably only
persevered in out of the spirit of teasing. But
to-day Monsieur Noirol looked very grave.

You have heard our good news V said Erica.
Now, don't begin again about Madame Mercier's
school ; I don't want to be made cross today
of all days, when 1 am so happy !'

I will tease you no more, dear mademoiselle,'
said the Frenchman ; but he offered no congratulations,
and there was something in his
manner which make Erica uneasy.

Is anything wrong? Has anything happened
V she asked, quickly.

The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders.

Who knows ! It is an evil world, Mademoiselle
Erica, as you will realise when you have
lived in it as long as I have. But I detain you.
Good-bye. Au revoir P

He took off his hat with a flourish, and passed

OD.

Erica, feeling baffled and a little cross,.
hurried home. Monsieur Noirol had not teased

her to-day, but he had been inscrutable and
tiresome, and he had made her feel uneasy.
She opened the front door, and went at once to
her father's study, pausing for a moment at the
sound of voices within. She recognised, however,
that it was her cousin, Tom Craigie, who
was speaking, and without more dehiy she
entered. Then in a moment she understood
why M. Noirol had been so mysterious. Tom
was speaking quickly and strongly, and there
was a glow of anger on his face. Her father
"vas standing with his back to the mantelpiece,
there was a sort of cold light in his eyes, which
filled Erica with dismay. Never in the most
anxious days had she seen him look at once so
angry, jet so weighed down with care.

What is the matter V she questioned, breathlessly,
instinctively turning to Tom, whose hot
anger was more approachable.

The scamp of a Christian has gone bankrupt,'
he said, referring to the defendant in
the late action, but too furious to speak very
intelligibly.

'Mr. Cleave, you meanes asked Erica.

The scoundrel ! Yes ! So not a farthing of
costs and damages shall we see ! It's the most
fiendish thing ever heard of 1'

\Yi]l the costs be very heavy?'

Heavy ! I should think they would indeed !'
He named the probable sum ; it seemed a fearful
addition to the already existing burden of debts.

A look of such pain and perplexity came over
Erica's face that Raeburn, for the first time
realising what was passing in the room, drew
her towards him, his face softening, and the
cold angry light in his eyes changing to
sadness.

Never mind, my child,' be said, with a sigh.
'Tis a hard blow, but we must bear up. Injustice
won't triumph in the end.'

There was something in his voice and look
which made Erica feel dreadfully inclined to cry ;
but that would have disgraced her for ever in
the eyes of stoical Tom, so she only squeezed
Lis hand hard and tried to think of that far
distant future of which she had spoken to
Charles Osmond, when there would be no
tiresome Christians and bigots and law-suits.'

There was, however, one person in the house
who was invariably the recipient of all the
troubled confidences of others. In a very few-minutes
Erica had left the study and was curled
up beside her mother's couch, talking out
unreservedly all her grief, and anger, and perplexity.


Mrs. Raeburn, delicate and invalided as she
was, had nevertheless a great deal of influence
though perhaps neither Raeburn, nor Erica, nor
warm-hearted Tom Craigie, understood how
much she did for them all. She was so unassuming,
so little given to unnecessary speech,
so reticent, that her life made very little show,
while it had become so entirely a matter of
course that everyone should bring his private
troubles to her that it would have seemed
extraordinary not to meet with exactly the
sympathy and counsel needed. To-day, however,
even Mrs. Raeburn was almost too despondent
to cheer the others. It comforted Erica to
talk to her, but she could not help feeling very
miserable as she saw the anxiety and sadness in
her mother's face.

What more can we do, mother V she
questioned. 'I can't think of a single thing we
can give np.'

I really don't know, dear,' said her mother,
with a sigh. ' We have nothing but the absolute
necessaries of life now, except indeed your
education at the High School, and that is a very
trifling expense, and one which cannot be interfered
with.'

Erica was easily depressed, like most high-spirited
persons ; but she was not used to seeing
either her father or her mother despondent, and
the mere strangeness kept her from going down
to the very deepest depths. She had the feeling
that at least one of them must try to keep
up. Yet, do what she would, that evening was
one of the saddest and dreariest she had ever
spent. All the excitement of contest was over,
and a sort of dead weight of gloom seemed to
oppress them. Eaeburn was absolutely silent.
From the first Erica had never heard him complain,
but his anger, and afterwards his intense
depression, spoke volumes. Even Tom, her
friend and playfellow, seemed changed this

VOL. I. H

evening, grown somehow from. a boy to a man ;
for there was a sternness about him which she
had never seen before, and which made the
days of their childhood seem far away. And
yet it was not so very long ago that she and
Tom had been the most light-hearted and careless
beings in the world, and had imagined the
chief interest of life to consist in tending dormice,
and tame rats, and silkworms ! She wondered
whether they could ever feel free again,
whether they could ever enjoy their long
Saturday afternoon rambles, or whether this
weight of care would always be upon them.

AVith a very heavy heart she prepared her
lessons for the next day, finding it somewhat
hard to take much interest in Magna Charta and
legal enactments in the time of King John,
when the legal enactments of to-day were so
much more mind-engrossing. Tom was sitting
opposite to her writing letters for Raeburn.
Once, notwithstanding his grave looks, she hazarded
a question.

Tom she said, shutting up her ' History

of the English People,' ' Tom, what do you think
will happen V

Tom looked across at her with angry yet
sorrowful eyes.

1 thinks he said, sternly, ' that the chieftain
will try to do the work of ten men at once,
and will pay off these debts or die in the attempt.'


The ' chieftain ' was a favourite name among
the Raeburnites for their leader, and there was
a great deal of the clan feeling among them.
The majority of them were earnest, hard-working,
thoughtful men, and their society was both
powerful and well-organised, while their personal
devotion to Raeburn lent a vigour and
vitality to the whole body which might otherwise
have been lacking. Perhaps comparatively
few would have been enthusiastic for the
cause of atheism had not that cause been represented
by a high-souled, self-denying man
whom they loved with all their hearts.

The dreary evening ended at length, Erica
helped her mother to bed, and then with slow

h2

steps climbed up to her little attic room. It
was cold and comfortless enough, bare of all
luxuries, but even here the walls were lined
with books, and Erica's little iron bedstead
looked somewhat incongruous, surrounded as it
was with dingy-looking volumes, dusty old
legal books, works of reference, books atheistical
theological, metaphysical, or scientific. On
one shelf amid this strangely heterogeneous
collection she kept her own particular treasures
Brian's Longfellow, one or two of Dickens'
books which Tom had given her, and the
beloved old Grimm and Hans Andersen, which
had been the friends of her childhood, and which
for ' old sakes' sake ' she had never had the
heart to sell. The only other trace of her in
the strange little bed-room was in a wonderful
array of china animals on the mantelpiece. She
was a great animal-lover, and, being a favourite
with everyone she received many votive
offerings. Her shrine was an amusing one to
look at. A green china frog played a tuneless
guitar ; a pensive monkey gazed with clasped
hands and dreadfully human eyes into futurity;

there were sagacious-looking elephants, placid
rhinoceroses, rampant hares, two pug dogs
clasped in an irrevocable embrace, an enormous
lobster, a diminutive polar bear, and in the
centre of all a most evil-looking jackdaw about
half-an-inch high.

But to-night the childish side of Erica was in
abeyance ; the cares of womanhood seemed
gathering upon her. She put out her candle
and sat down in the dark, racking her brain
for some plan by which to relieve her father and
mother. Their life was growing harder and
harder. It seemed to her that poverty in itself
Alas bearable enough, but that the ever-increasing
load of debt was not bearable. As long as
she could remember, it had always been like a
mill-stone tied about their necks, and the ceaseless
petty economies and privations seemed of
little avail ; she felt very much as if she were
one of the Dandies, doomed for ever to pour
water into a vessel with a hole in it.

Yet in one sense she was better off than many,
for these debts were not selfish debts — no one
had ever known Raeburn to spend an unnecessary

sixpence on himself; all this load had been
incurred in the defence of what he considered
the truth — by his unceasing struggles for liberty
She was proud of the debts, proud to suffer in
what she regarded as the sacred cause ; but in
spite of that she was almost in despair this
evening, the future looked so hopelessly black.

Tom's words rang in her head — ' The chieftain
will try to do the work often men !' What
if he overworked himself as he had done once a
few years ago ? What if he died in the attempt ?
She wished Tom had not spoken so strongly. In
the friendly darkness she did not try to check
the tears which would come into her eyes at the
thought. Something must be done ! She must
in some way help him ! And then, all at once,
there flashed into her mind Monsieur Noirol's
teasing suggestion that she should go to Paris;
Here was a way in which, free of all expense, she
might finish her education, might practically
earn her living ! In this way she might indeed
help to lighten the load, but it would be at the
cost of absolute self-sacrifice. She must leave
home, and father and mother, and country I

Erica was not exactly selfish but she was very
young. For a time the thought of the voluntary
sacrifice seemed quite unbearable, she could
not make up her mind to it.

Why should I give up all this ! Why should
prejudice and bigotry spoil my whole life V she
thought, beginning to pace up and down the
room with quick agitated steps. ' Why should
we suffer because that wretch has gone bankrupt
'^ It is unfair, unjust, it can't be right.'

She leant her arms on the window-sill, and
looked out into the silent night. The stars
Avere shining peacefully enough, looking down
on this world of strife and struggle ; Erica grew
a little calmer as she looked ; Nature, with its
majesty of calmness, seemed to quiet her
troubled heart and ' sweep gradual gospels
in.'

From some recess of memory there came to
her some half-enigmatical w^ords;they had been
quoted by Charles Osmond in his speech, but
she did not remember where she had heard
them, only they began to ring in her ears
now :

There is no gain except by loss,
There is no life except by death,

Nor glory but by bearing shame.
Nor justice but by taking blame.'

She did not altogether understand the verse,
but there was a truth in it which could hardly
fail to come home to one who knew what persecution
meant. What if the very blame and
injustice of the present brought in the future'
Reign of justice ! She seemed to hear her
father's voice saying again,

We must bear up, child ; injustice won't
triumph in the end.'

There is no gain except by loss !'

What if her loss of home and friends brought
gain to the world ! That was a thought which
brought a glow of happiness to her even in the
midst of her pain. There was, after all, much
of the highest Christianity about her, though
she would have been very much vexed if anyone
had told her so, because Christianity meant
to her narrow-mindedness instead of brotherly
love. However it might be, there was no

closing that the child of the great teacher of
atheism had grasped the true meaning of life,
had grasped it, and-seas prepared to act on it too.
She had always lived with those who were
ready to spend all in the promotion of the
general good ; and all that was true, all that
was noble in her creed, all that had filled her
with admiration in the lives of those she loved,
came to her aid now.

She went softly down the dark staircase to
Auburn's study ; it was late, and, anxious not
to disturb the rest of the house, she opened
the door noiselessly and crept in. Her father
was sitting at his desk writing ; he looked
very stern, but there was a sort of grandeur
about his rugged face. He was absorbed in his
work and did not hear her, and for a minute she
stood quite still watching him, realising with
pain and yet with a happy pride how greatly
she loved him. Her heart beat fast at the
thought of helping him, lightening his load even
a little.

Father,' she said softly.

Raeburn was the sort of man who could not

be startled, but he looked up quickly, apparently
returning from some speculative region
With a slight effort. He was the most practical
of men, and yet for a minute he felt as if he
were living in a dream, for Erica stood beside him,
pale and beautiful, with a sort of heroic light
about her whole face which transformed her
from a merry child to a high-souled woman.
Instinctively he rose to speak to her.

'1 will not disturb you for more than a
minute, father,' she said, ' it is only that I have
thought of a way in which I think I could help
you if you would let me"*

Well, dear, what is it V said Raeburn, still
watching half-dreamily the exceeding beauty
of the face before him. Yet an undefined sense
of dread chilled his heart. Was anything too
hard or high for her to propose? He listened
without a word to her account of Monsieur
Noirol's Parisian scheme, to her voluntary
suggestion that she should go into exile for
two years. At the end he merely put a brief
question.

Are you ready to bear two years of loneliness
V

I am ready to help yon,' she said , with a
little quiver in her voice and a cloud of pain in
her eyes.

Raeburn turned away from her and began to
pace up and down the little room, his eyes not
altogether free from tears, for, pachydermatous
as he was accounted by his enemies, this man was
very tender over his child, he could hardly endure
to see her pain. Yet after all, though she
had given him a sharp pang, she had brought
him happiness which any father might envy.
He came back to her, his stern face inexpressibly
softened.

'And I am ready to be helped, my child ; it
shall be as you say.'

There was something in his voice and in the
gentle acceptance of help from one so strong
and self-reliant which touched Erica more than
any praise or demonstrative thanks could have
done. They were going to work together, he
had promised that she should fight side by side
with him.

Law-suits may ruin us,' said Raeburn, ' but,
after all, the evil has a way of helping out the
good.' He put his arm round her and kissed
her. ' You have taught me, little one, how
powerless and weak are these petty persecutions.
They can only prick and sting us ! Nothing
can really hurt us while we love the truth and
love each other.'

That was the happiest moment Erica had
ever known, already her loss had brought a rapturous
gain.

I shall never go to sleep to-night,' she said.
Let me help you with your letters.'

Raeburn demurred a little, but yielded to her
entreaties, and for the next two hours the father
and daughter worked in silence. The bitterness
which had lurked in the earlier part of the
pamphlet that Raeburn had in hand was quite
lacking in its close ; the writer had somehow
been lifted into a higher, purer atmosphere, and
if his pen flew less rapidly over the paper,
it at any rate wrote words which would
long outlive the mere overflow of an angry
heart.

Coming back to the world of realities at last
somewhere in the small hours, he found his fire
out, a goodly pile of letters ready for his signature,
and his little amanuensis fast asleep in her
chair. Reproaching himself for having allowed
her to sit up, he took her in his strong arms as
though she had been a mere baby, and carried
her up to her room so gently that she never
woke. The next morning she found herself so
swathed in plaids and rugs and blankets that
she could hardly move, and, in spite of a bad
headache , could not help beginning the day
with a hearty laugh.

Raeburn was not a man who ever let the
grass grow under his feet , his decisions were
made with thought, but with very rapid thought
and his action was always prompt. His case
excited a good deal of attention ; but long before
the newspapers had ceased to wage war
either for or against him, long before the weekly
journals had ceased to team with letters relating
to the law-suit, he had formed his plans
for the future. His home was to be completely
broken up. Erica was to go to Paris, his wife

was to live with his sister, Mrs. Craigie, and her
son Tom, who had agreed to keep on the lodgings
in Guilford Terrace, while for himself he
had mapped out such a programme of work as
could only have been undertaken by a man of
Titanic energy ' and * Herculean strength,'
epithets which even the hostile press invariably
bestowed on him. How great the sacrifice was
to him few people knew. As we have said before,
the world regarded him as a target, and
would hardly have believed that he was in
reality a man of the gentlest tastes, as fond of
his home as any man in England , a faithful
friend and a devoted father, and perhaps all the
more dependent on the sympathies of his own
circle because of the bitter hostility he encountered
from other quarters. But he made his
plans resolutely, and said very little about
them either one way or the other, sometimes
even checking Erica when she grumbled for
him or gave vent to her indignation with regard
to the defendant.

We work for freedom, little one,' he used to

say ; ' and it is ao honour to suffer in the cause
of liberty.'

But everyone says you will kill yourself with
overwork said Erica, ' and especially when you
are in America.'

They done know what stuff I'm made of
said Raeburn ; ' and, even if it should use me up,
what then? It's better to wear out than to
rust out, as a wise man once remarked.'

Yes,' said Erica, rather faintly.

• But I've no intention of wearing out just
yet,' said Raeburn, cheerfully. • You need not be
afraid, little son Eric ; and, if at the end of
these two years you do come back to find me
grey and wrinkled, what will that matter so
long as we are free once more. There's a good
time coming : we'll have the cosiest little home
in London yet.'

With a garden for you to work in,' said
Erica, brightening up like a child at the castle
in the air. ' And we'll keep lots of animals,
and never bother again about money all our
lives.'

Raeburn smiled at her ideas of felicity — no
cares, and plenty of dogs and cats ! He did
not anticipate any haven of rest at the end of
the two years for himself He knew that his life
must be a series of conflicts to the very end.
Still he hoped for relief from the load of debt,
and looked forward to the re-establishment of
his home.

Brian Osmond heard of the plans before long,
but he scarcely saw Erica ; the Christmas holidays
began, and he no longer met her each
afternoon in Gower Street, while the time drew
nearer and nearer for her departure for Paris.
At lengthy on the very last day, it chanced that
they were once more thrown together.

Raeburn was a great lover of flowers, and he
very often received floral offerings from his
followers. It so happened that some beautiful
hot-house flowers had been sent to him from a
nursery garden one day in January, and, unwilling
to keep them all, he had suggested that
Erica should take some to the neighbouring
hospitals. Now there were two hospitals in Guilford
Square ; Erica felt much more interested

in the children's hospital than in the one for
grown-hip people ; but, wishing to be impartial,
she arranged a basketful for each, and well-pleased
to have anything to give hastened on
her errand. Much to her delight , her first basket
of flowers was not only accepted very gratefully,
but the lady superintendent took her over
the hospital, and let her distribute the flowers
among the children. She was very fond of
children, and was as happy as she could be
passing up and down among the little beds,
while her bright manner attracted the little
ones, and made them unusually affectionate and
responsive.

Happy at having been able to give them
pleasure and full of tender womanly thoughts,
she crossed the square to another small hospital ;
she was absorbed in pitiful loving humanity,
had forgotten altogether that the world counted
her as a heretic, and, wholly unprepared for
what awaited her, she was shown into the
visitors' room and asked to give her name.
Not only was Raeburn too notorious a name to
pass muster, but the head of the hospital knew

VOL. I. I

Erica by sight, and had often met her out
of doors with her father. She was a stiff,
narrow-minded, uncompromising sort of person,
and in her own words was ' determined to have
no fellowship with the works of darkness.'
How she could consider bright-faced Erica,
with her loving thought for others and her
free gift, a ' work of darkness,' it is hard to
understand. She was not at all disposed, however,
to be under any sort of obligation to an
atheist, and the result of it was that, after a
three minutes' interview. Erica found herself
once more in the square, with her flowers still
in her hand, * declined ivitJwut thanks.'

No one ever quite knew what the superintendent
had said to her, but apparently the rebuff
bad been very hard to bear. Not content with
declining any fellowship with the poor little
work of darkness,' she had gone on in accordance
with the letter of the text to reprove
her; and Erica left the house with burning
cheeks, and with a tumult of angry feeling
stirred up in her heart. She was far too angry
to know or care what she was doing ; she walked

down the quiet square in the very opposite
direction to ' Persecution Alley,' and might
have walked on for an indefinite time had not
some one stopped her.

I was hoping to see you before you left,'
said a pleasant, quiet voice close by her. She
looked up and saw Charles Osmond.

Thus suddenly brought to a standstill, she
became aware that she was trembling from
head to foot. A little delicate sensitive thing,
the unsparing censure and the rude reception
she had just met with had quite upset her.

Charles Osmond retained her hand in his
strong clasp, and looked questioningly into her
bright, indignant eyes.

What is the matter my child V he asked.

^ I am only angry,' said Erica, rather breathlessly,
' hurt and angry, because one of your
bigots has been rude to me.'

Come in, and tell me all about it,' said
Charles Osmond ; and there was something so
irresistible in his manner that Erica at once
allowed herself to be led into one of the tall,
old-fashioned houses and taken into a comforted



able and roomy study, the nicest room she had
ever been in. It was not luxurious, indeed, the
Turkey carpet was shabby and the furniture
well-worn, but it was homelike, and warm and
cheerful, evidently a room which was dear to
its owner.

Charles Osmond made her sit down in a capacious
arm-chair close to the fire.

Well, now, who was the bigot V he said,
in a voice that would have won the confidence
of a flint.

Erica told as much of the story as she could
bring herself to repeat, quite enough to show
Charles Osmond the terrible harm which maybe
wrought by tactless modern Christianity.
He looked down very sorrowfully at the eager
expressive face of the speaker, it was at once
very white and very pink, for the child was
sorely wounded as well as indignant. She was
evidently, however, a little vexed with herself
for feeling the insult so keenly.

It is very stupid of me,' she said, laughing
a little, * it is time I was used to it, but I never
can help shaking in this silly way when anyone

is rude to us. Tom laughs at me, aud says
I am made on wire springs like a twelfth-cake
butterfly ! But it is rather hard, isn't it,
to be shut out from everything, even from
giving V

I think it is both hard and wrong,' said
Charles Osmond. ' But we do not all shut you
out.'

No,' said Erica. ' You have always been
kind, you are not a bit like a Christian. .AVould
you,' — she hesitated a little, — ' would you take
the flowers instead V

It was said with a shy grace inexpressibly
winning. Charles Osmond was touched and
gratified.

They will be a great treat to us he said.
My mother is very fond of flowers. Will you
come upstairs and see her ? We shall find
afternoon tea going on, I expect.'

So the rejected flowers found a resting-place
in the clergyman's house and Brian coming in
from his rounds was greeted by a sight which
made his heart beat at double time. In the
drawing-room beside his grandmother sat

Erica, her little fur hat pushed back, her gloves
off, busily arranging Christmas roses and red
camellias. Her anger had died away, she was
talking quite merrily. It seemed to Brian
more like a beautiful dream than a bit of everyday
life, to have her sitting there so naturally
in his home ; but the note of pain was struck
before long.

I must go home,' she said. ' This is my
last day, you know. I am going to Paris tomorrow.'


A sort of sadness seemed to fall on them at
the words, only gentle Mrs. Osmond said,
cheerfully,

You will come to see us again when you
come back, will you not V

And then with the privilege of the aged she
drew down the young fresh face to hers and
kissed it.

You will let me see you home,' said Brian.
It is getting dark.'

Erica laughingly protested that she was Avell
used to taking care of herself, but it ended in
Brian's triumphing. So together they crossed

the quiet square. Erica chattered away merrily
enough, but as they reached the narrow entrance
to Guilford Terrace a shadow stole over
her face.

Oh !' she exclaimed, ' this is the last time I
shall come home for two whole years.'

You go for so long V said Brian, stifling a
sigh. 'You won't forget your English friends

Do you mean that you count yourself our
friend V asked Erica, smiling.

If you will let me.'

That is a funny word to use,' she replied,
laughing. 'You see, we are treated as outlaws
generally. I don't think anyone ever said
will you let " to me before. This is our house ;
thank you for seeing me home.' Then, with a
roguish look in her eyes, she added, demurely,
but with a slight emphasis on the last word,
Good-bye, my friend.'

Brian turned away sadly enough, but he had
not gone far when he heard flying footsteps,
and looking back saw Erica once more.

Oh, I just came to know whether by any
chance you want a kitten,' she said, ' I have a

real beauty which T want to find a nice home for.'

Of course Brian wanted a kitten at once ;
one would have imagined by the eagerness of
his manner that he was devoted to the whole
feline tribe.

Well, then, will you come in and see it,'
said Erica. ' He really is a very nice kitten,
and I shall go away much happier if I can see
him settled in life first.'

She took him in, introduced him to her
mother, and ran off in search of the cat, returning
in a few minutes with a very playful-looking
tabby.

There he is,' she said, putting the kitten on
the table with an air of pride. * I don't believe
he has an equal in all London.'

What do you call him V asked Brian.

'His name is St. Anthony said Erica. "Oh,
I hope, by-the-by, you won't object to that, it
was no disrespect to St. Anthony at all, but only
that he always will go and preach to my goldfish.
We'll make him do it now to show you.
Come along, Tony, and give them a sermon,
there's a good little kit !'

She put him on a side table, and he at once
rested his front paws on a large glass bowl and
peered down at the gold fish with great
curiosity.

I believe he would have drowned himself
sooner or later, like Gray's cat, so I daresay it
is a good thing for him to leave. You will be
kind to him, won't you?'

Brian promised that he should be well attended
to, and indeed there was little doubt that
St. Anthony would from that day forth be lapped
in luxury. He went away with his new
master very contentedly, Erica following them
to the door with farewell injunctions.

And you'll be sure to butter his feet well, or
-else he won't stay with you. Good-bye, dear
Tony. Be a good little cat I'

Brian was pleased to have this token from his
Undine, but at the same time ho could not help
seeing that she cared much more about parting
with the kitten than about saying good-bye to
him. Well, it was something to have that
lucky St. Anthony, who had been fondled and
kissed. And after all it was Erica's very childishness

and simplicity which made her so dear
to him.

As soon as they were out of sight, Erica, with
the thought of the separation beginning to
weigh upon her. went back to her mother.
They knew that this was the hist quiet time
they should have together for many long
months. But last days are not good days for
talking. They spoke very little. Every now
and then Mrs. Raeburn would make some
inquiry about the packing or the journey, or
would try to cheer the child by speaking of the
home they would have at the end of the two
years. But Erica was not to be comforted, a
dull pain was gnawing at her heart, and the
present was not to be displaced by any visions
of a golden future.

If it were not for leaving ^^ou alone, mother,
I shouldn't mind so much,' she said, in rather a
choked voice. ' But it seems to me that you
have the hardest part of all.'

Aunt Jean will be here, and Tom,' said Mrs.
Raeburn.

Aunt Jean is very kind,' said Erica, doubtfully.

'But she doesn't know how to nurse
people. Tom is the one hope, and he has
promised always to tell me the whole truth
about you ; so, if you get worse, I shall come
home directly.'

You mustn't grudge me my share of the
work said Mrs. Auburn. ' It would make me
very miserable if I did hinder you or your
father.'

Erica sighed.

You and father are so dreadfully public
spirited ! And yet, oh, mother ! what does the
whole world matter to me if I think you are
uncomfortable, and wretched, and alone V

You will learn to think differently, dear, by-and-by,'
said her mother, kissing the eager
troubled face. * And, when you fancy me lonely,
you can picture me instead as proud and
happy in thinking of my brave little daughter
who has gone into exile of her own accord to
help the cause of truth and liberty.'

They were inspiriting words, and they
brought a glow to Erica's face ; she choked
down her own personal pain. No religious

martyr went through the time of trial more
bravely than Luke Raeburn's daughter lived
through the next four-and-twenty hours. She
never forgot even the most trivial incident of
that day, it seemed burnt in upon her brain.
The dreary waking on the dark winter morning,
the hurried farewells to her aunt and Tom,
the last long embrace from her mother, the
drive to the station, her father's recognition on
the platform, the rude staring and ruder comments
to which they were subjected, then the
one supreme wrench of parting, the look of
pain in her father s face, the trembling of his
voice, the last long look as the train moved off,
and the utter loneliness of all that followed. Then
came dimmer recollections, not less real but more
confused, of a merry set of fellow-passengers
who were going to enjoy themselves in the
South of France ; of a certain little packet which
her father had placed in her hand, and which
proved to be 'Mill on Liberty'; of her eager
perusal of the first two or three chapters ; of the
many instances of the ' tyranny of the majority '
which she had been able to produce not without

a certain satisfaction. And afterwards more
vividly she could recall the last look at England,
the dreary arrival at Bologna, the long, weary
railway journey, and the friendly reception
at Madame Lemercier's school. No one could
deny that her new life had been bravely
begun.

CHAPTER VI.

PARIS.

But we wake in the young morning when the light is

breaking forth ;
And look out on its misty gleams, as if the noon were full ;
And the Infinite around, seems but a larger kind of earth
Inspiring this, and measured by the self-same handy rule.
Hilda among the Broken Gods.

Not unfrequently the most important years of a
life, the years which tell most on the character ,
are unmarked by any notable events. A steady,
orderly routine, a gradual progression, perseverance
in hard work, often do more to educate
and form than a varied and eventful life.
Erica's two years of exile were as monotonous
and quiet as the life of the secularist's daughter
could possibly be. There came to her, of

course, from the distance the echoes of her
father's strife ; but she was far removed from it
all, and there was little to disturb her mind in
the quiet Parisian school. There is no need to
dwell on her uneventful life, and a very brief
description of her surroundings will be sufficient
to show the sort of atmosphere in which she
lived.

The school was a large one, and consisted
principally of French provincial girls, sent to
Paris to finish their education. Some of them
Erica liked exceedingly ; every one of them was
to her a curious and interesting study. She
liked to hear them talk about their home life,
and, above all things, to hear their simple, naive
remarks about religion. Of course she was on
her honour not to enter into discussions with
them, and they regarded all English as heretics,
and did not trouble themselves to distinguish
between the different grades. But there was nothing
to prevent her from observing and listening,
and with some wonder she used to hear
discussions about the dresses for the ' Premiere
Communion,' remarks about the various services,

or laments over the confession papers. The
girls went to confession once a month, and
there was always a day in which they had ta
prepare and write out their misdemeanours.
One day, a little, thin, delicate child from the
South of France came up to Erica with her confession
in her hand.

Dear, good Erica,' she said, wearily, ' have
the kindness to read this, and to correct my
mistakes.'

Erica took the little thing on her knee and
began to read the paper. It was curiously
spelt. Before very long she came to the sentence,
' J^ai trop mange.'

Why, Ninette,' exclaimed Erica, * you hardly
eat enough to feed a sparrow ; it is nonsense to
put that.'

Ah, but it was a fast day,' sighed Ninette,
And I felt hungry, and did really eat more
than I need have.'

Erica felt half angry and contemptuous, half
amused, and could only hope that the priest
would see the pale, thin face of the little penitent
and realise the ludicrousness of the confession.

Another time all the girls had been to some
special service ; on their return she asked what
it had been about.

Oh,' remarked a bright-faced girl, 'it was about
the seven joys — or the seven sorrows — of Mary''

Do you mean to say you don't know whether
it was very solemn or very joyful V asked Erica,
astonished and amused.

I am really not sure,' said the girl, with the
most placid good-tempered indifference.

On the whole, it was scarcely to be wondered
at that Erica was not favourably impressed with
Roman Catholicism.

She was a great favourite with all the girls ;
but, though she was very patient and persevering,
she did not succeed in making any of them
fluent English speakers, and learnt their language
far better than they learnt hers. Her
three special friends were not among the pupils,
but among the teachers. Dear old Madame
Lemercier with her good-humoured black eyes,
her kind demonstrative ways, and her delightful
stories about the time of the war and
the siege, was a friend worth having. So was

VOL. I. K

WE TWO.

her husband, Monsieur Lemercier the journalist.
He was a little dried-up man, with a fierce
black moustache ; he was sarcastic and witty,
and he would talk politics by the hour together
to anyone who would listen to him, especially
if they would now and then ask a pertinent and
intelligent question which gave him scope for

an oration.

Erica made a delightful listeners for she was
always anxious to learia and to understand, and
before long she was quite au fait, and understood
a great deal about that exceedingly complicated
thing, the French political system.
Monsieur Lemercier was a fiery, earnest little
man with very strong convictions ; he had been
exiled as a Communist but had now returned,
and was a very vigorous and impassioned writer
in one of the advanced Republican journals. He
and his wife became very fond of Erica, Madame
Lemercier loving her for her brightness and
readiness to help, and monsieur for her beauty
and her quickness of perception. It was surprising
and gratifying to meet with a girl who,
■(vithout being femme savante, was yet capable

of understanding the difference between the
Extreme Left and the Left Centre, and who took
a real interest in what was passing in the
world.

But Erica's greatest friend was a certain
Fraulein Sonnenthal, the German governess.
She was a kind-eyed Hanoverian, homely and
by no means brilliantly clever, but there was
something in her unselfishness and in her unassuming
humility that won Erica's heart. She
never would hear a word against the Fraulein.

Wh}^ do you care so much for Fraulein
Sonnenthal V she was often asked. ' She seems
uninteresting and dull to us.'

I love her because she is so good,' was Erica's
invariable reply.

She and the Fraulein shared a bed-room, and
many were the arguments they had together.
The effect of being separated from her own
people was, very naturally, to make Erica a
more devoted Secularist. She was exceedingly
enthusiastic for what she considered the truth,
and not unfrequently grieved and shocked the
Lutheran Fraulein by the vehemence of her

k2

statements. Very often they would argue far
on into the night ; they never quarrelled, however
hot the dispute, but the fraulein often had
a sore time of it ; for, naturally, Luke Raeburn's
daughter was well-up in all the debateable
points, and she had, moreover, a good deal of
her father's rapidity of thought and gift of
speech. She was always generous, however,
and the Fraulein had in some respects the advantage
of her, for they spoke in German.

One scene in that little bed-room Erica never
forgot. They had gone to bed one Easter-eve,
and had somehow fallen into a long and stormy
argument about the resurrection and the doctrine
of immortality. Erica, perhaps because she
was conscious of the ' weakness ' she had confessed
to Brian Osmond, argued very warmly on
the other side ; the poor little Fraulein was
grieved beyond measure and defended her faith
gallantly, though as she feared very ineffectually.
Her arguments seemed altogether extinguished
by Erica's remorseless logic, she was
not nearly so clever, and her very earnestness
seemed to trip her up and make all her sentences

broken and incomplete. They discussed
the subject till Erica was hoarse, and at last from
very weariness she fell asleep while the Lutheran
was giving her a long quotation from St. Paul.

She slept for two or three hours ; when she
woke, the room was flooded with silvery moonlight,
the wooden cross which hung over the
German's bed stood out black and distinct, but
the bed was empty. Erica looked round the
room uneasily, and saw a sight which she
never forgot.

The Fraulein was kneeling beside the window,
and even the cold moonlight could not
chill or hide the wonderful brightness of her
face. She was a plain, ordinary little woman,
but her face was absolutely transformed ; there
was something so beautiful and yet so unusual
in her expression that Erica could not speak or
move, but lay watching her almost breathlessly.
The spiritual world about which they had been
speaking must be very real indeed to Thekla
Sonnenthal ! Was it possible that this was
the work of delusion ? While she mused, her
friend rose, came straight to her bedside, and

bent over her with a look of such love and
tenderness that Erica, though not generally
demonstrative could not resist throwing her
arms round her neck.

Dear Sunnyvale ! you look just like your
name !' she exclaimed, ' all brightness and humility!
AVhat have you been doing to grow so
like Murillo's Madonna V

'I thought you were asleep said the Fraulein.
' Good night, JierzhldttcJien, or rather
good morning, for the Easter Day has
begun

Perhaps Erica liked her all the better for
saying nothing more definite, but in the ordinary
sense of the word she did not have a
good night, for long after Thekla Sonnenthal
was asleep, and dreaming of her German home,
Luke Raeburn's daughter lay awake, thinking
of the faith which to some was such an intense
reality. Had there been anything excited or
unreal about her companion's manner, she
would not have thought twice about it, but her
tranquillity and sweetness seemed to her very
remarkable. Moreover, Fraulein Sonnenthal

was strangely devoid of imagination ; she was a
matter-of-fact little person, not at all a likely
subject for visions and delusions. Erica was
perplexed. Once more there came to her that
uncomfortable question, — ' Supposing Christianity
were true V

The moonlight paled and the Easter morn
broke, and still she tossed to and fro haunted
by doubts which would not let her sleep. But
by-and-by she returned to the one thing which
was absolutely certain, namely that her German
friend was loveable and to be loved, whatever
her creed.

And, since Erica's love was of the practical
order, it prompted her to get up early, dress
noiselessly, and steal out of the room without
waking her companion ; then, with all the church
bells ringing and the devout citizens hurrying
to mass, she ran to the nearest flower-stale,
spent one of her very few half-francs on the
loveliest white rose to be had, and carried it
back as an Easter offering to the Frauleiu.

It was fortunate in every way that Erica
had the little German lady for her friend, for

she would often have fared badly without someone
to nurse and befriend her.

She was very delicate, and worked far too
hard ; for, besides all her work in the school, she
was preparing for an English examination
which she had set her heart on trying as soon
as she went home. Had it not been for Fraulein
Sonnenthal, she would more than once
have thoroughly overworked herself ; and indeed
as it was, the strain of that two years
told severely on her strength.

But the time wore on rapidly, as very fully
occupied time always does, and Erica's list of
days grew shorter and shorter, and the letters
from her mother were more and more full of
plans for the life they would lead when she
came home. The two years would actually
end in January ; Erica was however to stay in
Paris till the following Easter, partly to oblige
Madame Lemercier, partly because by that
time her father hoped to be in a great measure
free from his embarrassments, able once more
to make a home for her.

CHAPTER VII.

WHAT THE New YEAR BROUGHT.

A voice grows with the growing years ;
Earth, hushing down her bitter cry,
Looks upward from her graves, and hears,
The Resurrection and the Life am L'

O Love Divine, — whose constant beam
Shines on the eyes that will not see,
And waits to bless us, while we dream
Thou leaves us because we turn from Thee !

Nor bounds, nor clime, nor creed Thou know'st,
AVide as our need Thy favours fall ;
The white wings of the Holy Ghost
Stoop, seen or unseen, o'er the heads of all.

Whittier.

It was the eve of the New Year, and great
excitement prevailed in the Lemerciers' house.
Many of the girls whose homes were at a distance
had remained at school for the short

winter holiday, and on this particular afternoon
a number of them were clustered round the
stove talking about the festivities of the
morrow and the presents they were likely to
have.

Erica who was now a tall and very pretty girl
of eighteen, was sitting on the hearth rug with
Ninette on her lap ; she was in very high spirits
and kept the little group in perpetual laughter,
so much so indeed that Fraulein Sonnenthal
had more than once been obliged to interfere,
and do her best to quiet them.

How wild thou art, dear Erica !' she exclaimed.
' What is it r

I am happy, that is all,' said Erica. ' You
would be happy if the year of freedom were
just dawning for you. Three months more and
I shall be home !'

She was like a child in her exultant happiness,
far more child-like, indeed, than the
grave little Ninette whom she was nursing.

'Thou art not dignified enough for a teacher,*
said the Fraulein, laughingly.

She is no teacher,' cried the girls. ' It i&

holiday time, and she need not talk that frightful
English.'

Erica made a laughing defence of her native
tongue, and such a babel ensued that the Fraulein
had to interfere again.

Liege Erica ! Thou art beside thyself. What
has come to thee?'

Only joy, dear Thekla, at the thought of the
beautiful New Year which is coming,' cried
Erica. 'Father would say I was 'fey," and
should pay for all this fun with a bad headache
or some misfortune. Come, give me the French
David Copperfield," and let me read you how
Barks veut bien ' and ^' Mrs. Gummidge a pense
de Ancien." '

The reading was more exquisitely ludicrous
to Erica herself than to her hearers. Still the
wit of Charles Dickens, even when translated,
called forth peals of laughter from the French
girls, too. It was the brightest happiest little
group imaginable ; perhaps it was scarcely
wonderful that old Madame Lemercier, when
she came to break it up, should find her eyes
dim with tears.

My dear Erica ' she said, and broke-oft

abruptly.

Erica looked Tip with laughing eyes.

Don't scold, dear madame,' she said, coaxingly.
' We have been very noisy ; but it is New
Year's Eve, and we are so happy.'

^ Dear child, it is not that,' said madame. ' I
want to speak to you for a minute ; come with
me, chcrie.^

Still Erica noticed nothing ; did not detect the
tone of pity, did not wonder at the terms of
endearment which were generally reserved for
more private use. She followed madame into
the hall, still chattering gaily.

'The " David Copperfield' is for monsieur's
present tomorrow,' she said, laughingly. ' I
knew he was too lazy to read it in English, so
I got him a translation.'

'My dear,' said madame taking her hand,
try to be quiet a moment. I — I have something
to tell you. My poor little one, monsieur your
father is arrived '

Father ! father here !' exclaimed Erica, in a
transport of delight. 'Where is he, where?'

Oh, madame, why didn't yoii tell me sooner?'

Madame Lemercier tried in vain to detail
her, as with cheeks all glowing with happiness
and dancing eyes, she ran at full speed to the
salon.

Father !' she cried, throwing open the door
and running to meet him. Then suddenly she
stood quite still as if petrified.

Beside the crackling wood fire, his arms on
the chimney-piece, his face hidden, stood a repaired
man. He raised himself as she spoke.
His news was in his face, it was written all too
plainly there.

Father I' gasped Erica, in a voice which
seemed altogether different from the first exclamation,
almost as if it belonged to a different
person.

Raeburn took her in his arms.

My child — my poor little Eric,' he said.

She did not speak a word, hut clung to him
as though to keep herself from falling. In one
instant it seemed as though her whole world
had been wrecked, her life shattered. She
could not even realise that her father was

still left to her, except in so far as the mere
bodily support was concerned. He was strong ;
she clung to him as in a hurricane she would
have clung to a rock.

Say it she gasped, after a timeless silence
perhaps of minutes, perhaps of hours, it might
have been centuries for aught she knew. ' Say
it in words.'

She wanted to know everything, wanted to
reduce this huge, overwhelming sorrow to
something intelligible. Surely in words it
would not be so awful — so limitless.

And he said it, speaking in a low repressed
voice, yet very tenderly, as if she had been a
little child. She made a great effort to listen,
but the sentences only came to her disjointed,
and as if from a great distance. It had been
very sudden — a two hours' illness, no very
great suffering. He had been lecturing at
Birmingham — had been telegraphed for — had
been too late.

Ei-mica made a desperate effort to realise it all ;
at last she brought down the measureless agony
to actual words, repeating them over and over
to herself — ' Mother is dead.'

At length she had grasped the idea ! Her
heart seemed to die within her, a strange blue
shade passed over her face, her limbs stiffened.
She felt her father carry her to the window, was
perfectly conscious of everything, watched as
in a dream whilst he wrenched open the clumsy
fastening of the casement, heard the voices in
the street below, heard too in the distance the
sound of church bells, was vaguely conscious of
relief as the cold air blew upon her.

She was lying on a couch, and, if left to
herself, might have lain there for hours in that
strange state of absolute prostration. But she
was not alone, and gradually she realised it.
Very slowly the re-beginning of life set in, the
consciousness of her father's presence awakened
her as it were from her dream of unmitigated
pain. She sat up, put her arms round his neck
and kissed him ; then for a minute let her aching
head rest on his shoulder. Presently, in a
low but steady voice, she said,

What would you like me to do, father V

To come home with me now if you are able,'
he said ; ' tomorrow morning, though, if you
would rather wait, dear.'

But the idea of waiting seemed intolerable to
her. The very sound of the word was hatefuL
Had she not waited two weary years, and this
was the end of it all? Any action, any present
doing however painful, but no more waiting !
No terrible pause in which more thoughts and,
therefore, more pain might grow. Outside in.
the passage they met Madame Lemercier, and
presently Erica found herself surrounded by
kind helpers, wondering to find them all so
tearful when her own eyes felt so hot and dry.
They were very good to her ; but, separated
from her father, her sorrow again completely
overwhelmed her, she could not then feel the
slightest gratitude to them or the slightest
comfort from their sympathy. She lay motionless
on her little white bed, her eyes fixed on the
wooden cross on the opposite wall, or from time
to time glancing at Fraulein Sonnenthal, who,
with little Ninette to help, was busily packing
her trunk. And all the while 'she said again
and again the words which summed up her
sorrow,

Mother is dead ! Mother is dead !'

After a time her eyes fell on her 
paper of days. Every evening since
her first arrival she had gone through the almost
religious ceremony of marking-ofF the
day ; it had often been a great consolation to
her. The paper was much worn ; the weeks
and days yet to be marked were few in number.
She looked at it now, and if there can be a
'more' to absolute grief, an additional pang to
unmitigated sorrow, it came to her at the sight
of that visible record of her long exile. She
snatched down the paper and tore it to pieces ;
then sank back again, pale and breathless,
Fraulein Sonnenthal saw and understood. She
came to her, and kissed her.

Herzblattchen,' she said, almost in aw^iisper^
and, after a moment's pause, ' Ein ceste Burg list
nnser Got.'

Erica made an impatient gesture, and turned
away her head.

Why does she choose this time of all others
to tell me so,' she thought to herself. ' Now,
"when I can't argue or even think ! A sure
tower ! Could a delusion make one feel that

YOL. I. L

anything is sure but death at such a time as
this ! Everything is gone — or going. Mother
is dead ! — mother is dead ! Yet she meant to be
be kind, poor Thekla, she didn't know it would
hurt.'

Madame Lemercier came into the room with
a cup of coffee and a brioche.

You have a long journey before you, my
little one she said ; ' you must take this before
you start.'

Yes, there was the journey ! that was a comfort.
There was something to be done, something
hard and tiring — surely it would blunt
her perceptions ! She started up with a strange
sort of energy, put on her hat and cloak, swallowed
the food with an effort, helped to lock
her trunk, moved rapidly about the room, looking
for any chance possession which might have
been left out. There was such terrible anguish
in her tearless eyes that little Ninette shrank
away from her in alarm. Madame Lemercier,
who in the time of the siege had seen great
suffering, had never seen anything like this ;
even Thekla Sonnenthal realised that for the

time she was beyond the reach of human
comfort.

Before long the farewells were over. Erica
was once more alone with her father, her cheeks
weet with the tears of others, her own eyes still
hot and dry. They were to catch the four
o'clock train ; the afternoon was dark, and already
the streets and shops were lighted ;
Paris, ever bright and gay, seemed to-night
brighter and gayer than ever. She watched
the placid-looking passengers , the idle loungers
at the cafes ; — did they know what pain was ?
Did they know that death was sure ? Presently
she found herself in a second-class carriage,
wedged-in between her father and a heavy-featured
priest, who diligently read a little
dogs-eared breviary. Opposite was a meek,
weasel-faced bourgeois, with a managing wife,
who ordered him about ; then came a bushy-whiskered
Englishman and a newly-married
couple, while in the further corner, nearly hidden
from view by the burly priest, lurked a gentle-looking
Sister of Mercy, and a mischievous and
fidgety schoolboy. She watched them all as

lin

a dream of pain. Presently the priest left-off
muttering and began to snore, and sleep fell,
too, upon the occupants of the opposite seat.
The little weasel-faced man looked most uncomfortable,
for the Englishman used him asa
prop on one side and the managing wife
nearly overwhelmed him on the other ; he slept
fitfully, and always with the air of a martyr,
waking up every few minutes and vainly trying
to shake off his burdens, who invariably made
stifled exclamations and sank back again.

That would have been funny once,' thought
Erica to herself. ' How I should have laughed.
Shall I always be like this all the rest of my
life, seeing what is ludicrous, yet with all the
fun taken out of it?'

But her brain reeled at the thought of the
rest of life.' The blank of bereavement, terrible
to all was absolute and eternal to her, and
this was her first great sorrow. She had known
pain, and privation, and trouble and anxiety,
but actual anguish never. Now it had come to
her, suddenly, irrevocably, never to be either
more or less ; perhaps to be fitted on as a garment

as time wore on, and to become a natural
part of her life ; but always to be the same, a
blank often felt, always present, till at length
her end came and she too passed away into the
great Silence.

Despair — the deprivation of all hope — is
sometimes wild, but oftener calm with a deathly
calmness. Erica was absolutely still, — she
scarcely moved or spoke during the long weary
journey to Calais. Twice only did she feel the
slightest desire for any outward vent. At the
Amiens station the school-boy in the corner,
who had been growing more restless and
excited every hour, sprang from the carriage to
greet a small crowd of relations who were
waiting to welcome him. She saw him rush to
his mother, heard a confused, affectionate Babel
of tongues, inquiries, congratulations, laughter.
Oh! to think of that happy light-heartedness
and the contrast between it and her grief.
The laughter seemed positively to cut her ; she
could have screamed from sheer pain. And, as
if cruel contrasts were fated to confront her,
no sooner had her father established her in the

cabin on board the steamer, than two bright-looking
English girls settled themselves .close
hjj and began chatting merrily about the New
Year and the novel beginning it would be onboard
a Channel steamer. Erica tried to stop
her ears that she might not hear the discussion
of all the forthcoming gaieties : ' Lady Needham's
dance on Thursday, our own, you know,
next week &c,, &c. But she could not shut
out the sound of the merry voices, or that
wounding laughter.

Presently an exclamation made her look and
listen.

Hark !' said one of her fellow-passengers.
We shall start now ; I heard the clock striking
twelve. A happy New Year to you, Lily, and
all possible good fortune.'

Happy New Year !' echoed from different
corners of the cabin ; the little Sister of Mercy
knelt down and told her beads, the rest of the
passengers talked, congratulated, laughed.
Erica would have given worlds to be able to
cry, but she could not. The terrible mockery
of her surroundings was too great, however.

to be borne ; her heart seemed like ice, her head
like fire, with a sort of feverish strength she
rushed out of the cabin, stumbled up the winding
staircase, and ran as if by instinct to that
part of the deck where a tall, solitary figure
stood up darkly in the dim light.

It's too cold for you, my child,' said Raeburn,
turning round at her approach.

Oh, father, let me stay with you,' sobbed
Erica, *■ I can't bear it alone.'

Perhaps he was glad to have her near
him for his own sake, perhaps he recognised
the truth to which she unconsciously
testified that human nature does at times cry
out for something other than self, stronger and
higher.

He raised no more objections, they listened in
silence till the sound of the church bells died
away in the distance, and then he found a more
sheltered seat and wrapped her up closely in his
own plaid, and together they began their new
year. The first lull in Erica's pain came in that
midnight crossing; the heaving of the boat, the
angry dashing of the waves, the foam-laden

wind, all seemed to relieve her. Above all,
there was comfort in the strong protecting
arm round her. Yet she was too crushed and
numb to be able to wish for anything but that
the end might come for her there, that together
they might sink down into the painless silence
of death.

Raeburn only spoke once throughout the passage,
instinctively he knew what was passing
in Erica's mind. He spoke the only word of
comfort which he had to speak : a noble one,
though just then very insufficient :

There is work to be done''

Then came the dreary landing in the middle
of the dark winter's night, and presently they
where again in a railway carriage but this time
alone. Raeburn made her lie down, and himself
fell asleep in the opposite corner; he had
been travelling uninterruptedly for twenty
hours had received a shock which had tried
him very greatly, now from sheer exhaustion he
slept. But Erica, to ^vhom the grief was more
new, could not sleep. Every minute the pain
of realisation grew keener. Here she w^as.in

England once more, this was the journey she
had so often thought of and planned. This
was going home ! Oh, the dreariness of the
reality when compared with those bright expectations
! And yet it was neither this thought
nor the actual fact of her mother's death
which first brought the tears to her burning
eyes.

Wearily shifting her position, she looked
across to the other side of the carriage, and
saw, as if in a picture, her father. Auburn
was a comparatively young man, very little
over forty ; but his anxieties and the almost incredible
amount of hard work of the past two
years had told upon him, and had turned his
hair grey. There was something in his stern
set face, in the strong man's reserved grief, in
the pose of his grand-looking head, dignified
even in exhaustion, that was strangely pathetic.
Erica scarcely seemed to realise that he
was her father. It was more as if she were
gazing at some scene on the stage, or on a
wonderfully graphic and heart-stirring picture.
The pathos and sadness of it took hold of her ;

she burst into a passion of tears, turned her
face from the light, and cried as if no power
on earth could ever stop her, her long-drawn
sobs allowed to go unchecked since the noise
of the train made them inaudible. She was so
little given to tears, as a rule, that now they
positively frightened her, nor could she understand
how, with a real and terrible grief for
which she could not weep, the mere pathetic
sight should have brought down her tears like
rain. But the outburst brought relief with it,
for it left her so exhausted that for a brief half-hour
she slept, and awoke just before they
reached London, with such a frightful headache
that the physical pain numbed the mental.

How soon shall we be ' home she would

have said, but the word choked her. ' How
soon shall we get there V she asked, faintly.
She was so ill, so weary, that the mere thought
of being still again — even in the death-visited
home — was a relief, and she was really too
much worn out to feel very acutely wdaile they
drove through the familiar streets.

At last, early in the cold, new year's morning,

they were set down in Guilford Square, at
the grim entrance to 'Persecution Alley.' She
looked round at the grey old houses with a
shudder ; then her father drew her arm within
his, and led her down the dreary little cul de sac.
There was the house, looking the same as ever,
and there was Aunt Jean coming forward to
met them, with a strange new tenderness in her
voice and look, and there was Tom in the background,
seeming half shy and afraid to meet
her in her grief, and there, above all, was the
one great eternal void.

To watch beside the dying must be anguish,
and yet surely not such keen anguish as to
have missed the last moments, the last farewells,
the last chance of serving. For those
who have to come back to the empty house
the home which never can be home again, may
God comfort them — no one else can.

Stillness, and food, and brief snatches of
sleep somewhat restored Erica. Late in the
afternoon she was strong enough to go into her
mother's room, for that last look so inexpressibly

painful to all, so entirely void of hope or comfort
to those who believe in no hereafter. Not even
the peacefulness of death was there to give
even a slight, a momentary relief to her pain ;
she scarcely even recognised her mother. Was
that indeed, all that was left ? that pale, rigid,
utterly changed face and form ? Was that her
mother? Could that once have been her mother?
Very often had she heard this great
change wrought by death referred to in discussions
; she knew well the arguments which
where brought forward by the believers in immortality,
the counter arguments with which
her father invariably met them, and which had
always seemed to her conclusive. But somehow
that which seemed satisfactory in the
lecture-hall did not answer in the room of
death. Her whole being seemed to flow out
into one longing question. Might there not bea
Beyond — an Unseen? Was this world indeed
only

A place to stand and love in for an hour,
With darkness and the death-hour rounding it ?'

She had slept in the afternoon, but at night.

when all was still, she could Dot sleep. The
question still lurked in her mind ; her sorrow
and loneliness grew almost unbearable. She
thought if she could only make herself cry
again perhaps she might sleep, and she took
down a book about Giordano Bruno, and read
the account of his martyrdom, an account
which always moved her very much. But tonight
not even the description of the valiant
shrinking martyr of Forethought ascending
the scaffold to meet his doom could in the
slightest degree affect her. She tried another
book, this time Dickens' ' Tale of Two Cities.'
She had never read the last two chapters
without feeling a great desire to cry ; but tonight
she read with perfect unconcern of Sidney
Carton's wanderings through Paris on the
night before he gave himself up, — read the last
marvellously-written scene without the slightest
emotion. It was evidently no use to try
anything else ; she shut the book, put out her
candle, and once more lay down in the-dark.


Then she began to think of the words which

bad so persistently haunted Sidney Carton, * I
am the Resurrection and the Life.' She, too,
seemed to be wandering about the Parisian
streets, hearing these words over and over
again. She knew that it was Jesus of Nazareth
who had said this. What an assertion it was
for a man to make ! It was not even ' I bring
the resurrection ' or ' I give the resurrection,' but
I am the Resurrection ' ! And yet, according
to her father, his humility had been excessive,
carried almost to a fault. Was he the most inconsistent
man that ever lived, or what was he ?
At last she thought she would get up and see
whether there was any qualifying context, and
when and where he had uttered this tremendous
saying.

Lighting her candle she crept, a little shivering,
white-robed figure, round the book-lined
room, scanning the titles on every shelf, but
Bibles were too much in use in that house to be
relegated to the attics, she found only the least
interesting and least serviceable of her father's
books. There was nothing for it but to go
down to the study ; so wrapping herself up, for

it was a freezing wiiiter^s i^igtit, she went noiselessly
downstairs, and soon found every possible
facility for biblical research.

A little baffled and even disappointed to find
the words in that which she regarded as the
least authentic of the gospels, she still resolved
to read the account ; she read it, indeed, in two
or three translations, and compared each closely
with the others, but in all the words stood out
in uncompromising greatness of assertion. This
man claimed to he the resurrection, or as Wyclif
had it, the ^ agen rising and lys.'

And then poor Erica read on to the end
of the story and was quite thrown back
upon herself by the account of the miracle which
followed. It was a beautiful story, she said to
herself, poetically written, graphically described,
but as to believing it to be true, she could as
soon have accepted the ' Midsummer Night's
Dream ' as having actually taken place.

Shivering with cold she put the books back
on their shelf, and stole upstairs once more to
bear her comfortless sorrow as best she could.

CHAPTER VIII.

WHY DO YOU BELIEVE IT V

Then the round of weary duties, cold and formal, came to

meet her,
With the life within departed that had given them each a

soul ;
And her sick heart even slighted gentle words that came to

greet her,

For grief spread its shadowy pinions like a blight upon the

whole.

A. A. Procter.

The winter sunshine which glanced in a sidelong,
half-and-half way into ' Persecution Alley,'
and struggled in at the closed blinds of Erica's
little attic, streamed unchecked into a far more
cheerful room in Guilford Square, and illumined
a breakfast-table, at which was seated
one occupant only, apparently making a late

and rather hasty meal. He was a man of about
eight and twenty, and though he was not absolutely
good-looking, his face was one which
people turned to look at again, not so much
because it was in any way striking as far as
features went, but because of an unusual sumptuousness
which pervaded it. The eyes, which
were dark grey, were peculiarly expressive, and
their softness, which might to some have seemed
a trifle masculine, was counterbalanced by the
straight, dark, noticeable eyebrows, as well as
by a thoroughly manly bearing and a general
impression of unfailing energy which characterised
the whole man. His hair, short beard and
moustache were of a deep nut-brown. He was
of medium height and very muscular-looking.

On the whole it was as pleasant a face as you
would often meet with, and it was not to be
wondered at that his old grandmother looked
up pretty frequently from her arm-chair by the
fire, and watched him with that beautiful loving
pride which in the aged never seems exaggerated
and very rarely misplaced.

You were out very late, were you not,
VOL. I. M

Brian V she observed, letting her knitting-needles
rest for a minute, and scrutinising the
rather weary-looking man.

Till half-past five this morning,' he replied,
in a somewhat preoccupied voice.

There was a sad look in his eyes, too, which
his grandmother partly understood. She knitted
another round of her sock and then said,

Have you seen Tom Craigie yet V

'Yes, last night I came across him,' replied
Brian. ' He told me she had come home. They
travelled by night and got in early yesterday
morning.'

Poor little thing!' sighed old Mrs. Osmond.
What a home-coming it must have been !'

Grannie,' said Brian, pushing back his chair
and drawing nearer to the fire, ' I want you to
tell me what I ought to do. I have a message
to her from her mother, there was no one else
to take it, you know, except the landlady, and
I suppose she did not like that. I want to
know when I might see her; one has no right to
keep it back, and yet how am I to know
whether she is fit to bear it ? I can't write it

down, it won't somehow go on to paper, yet I
can hardly ask to see her yet.'

AVe cannot tell that the message might not
comfort her,' said Mrs. Osmond. Then after
a few minutes' thought she added, ' I think,
Brian, if I were you, I would write her a
little note, tell her why you want to see her,
and let her fix her own time. You will
leave it entirely in her own hands in that
way.'

He mused for a minute, seemed satisfied
with the suggestion, and, moving across to
the writing-table, began his first letter to his
love. Apparently it Alas hard to write, for
he wasted several sheets, and much time that
he could ill afford. When it was at length
finished, it ran as follows ;

Dear Miss Raeburx,

I hardly like to ask to
see you yet for fear you should think me
intrusive, but a message was intrusted to me
on Tuesday night which I dare not of myself
keep back from you. Will you see me ?

M 2

If you are able to, and will name the time

which will suit you best, I shall be very

grateful. Forgive me for troubling you,
and believe me,

Yours faithfully,

'Brian Osmond.'

He sent it off a little doubtfully, hy no
means satisfied that he had done a wise
thing. But when he returned from his rounds
later in the day the reply set his fears at
rest.

It was written lengthways across a sheet
of paper : the small delicate writing was full
of character, but betrayed great physical exhaustion.


*■ It is good of you to think of us. Please
come this afternoon if you are able.

^ Erica.'

That very afternoon ! Now that his wish
was granted, now that he was indeed to see
her, Brian would have given worlds to have
postponed the meeting. He was well accustomed

to visiting sorrow-stricken people, but
from meeting such sorrow as that in theRaeburns'
house he shrank back feeling his insufficiency.
Besides, what words were delicate enough to
convey all that had passed in that death-scene?
How could he dare to attempt in speech all that
the dying mother would fain have had conveyed
to her child? And then his own love ! Would
not that be the greatest difficulty of all ? Feeling
her grief as he did could he yet modify
his manner to suit that of a mere outsider — •
almost a stranger? He was very diffident;
though longing to see Erica, he would yet have
given anything to be able to transfer his work
to his father. This, however, was of course
impossible.

Strange though it might seem he — the most
unsuitable of all men in his own eyes — was the
man singled out to bear this message, to go to
the death-visited household. He went about
his afternoon work in a sort of steady, mechanical
manner, the outward veil of his inward
agitation. About four o'clock he was free to goto
Guilford Terrace.

He was shown into the little. sitting-room ; it
was the room in which Mrs. Raeburn had died,
and the mere sight of the outer surroundings,
the well-worn furniture, the book-lined walls,
made the whole scene vividly present to him.
The room was empty, there was a blazing fire
but no other light, for the blinds were down,
and even the winter twilight shut out. Brian
sat down and waited. Presently the door
opened, he looked up and saw Erica approaching
him. She was taller than she had been
when he last saw her, and now grief had given
her a peculiar dignity which made her much
more like her father. Every shade of colour
had left her face, her golden-brown eyes were
full of a limitless pain, the eyelids were slightly
reddened, but apparently rather from sleeplessness
than from tears, the whole face was so
altered that a mere casual acquaintance would
hardly have recognised it, except by the unchanged
waves of short auburn hair which still
formed the setting as it were to a picture, lovely
even now. Only one other thing was unchanged,
and that was the frank, unconventional

manner. Even in her grief she could not be
quite like other people.

It is very good of you to let me see you,'
said Brian, ' you are sure you are doing right ;
it will not be too much for you to-day.'
* There is no great difference in days I think,'
said Erica, sitting down on a low chair beside
the fire. 'I do not very much believe in degrees
in this kind of grief, I do not see why it
should be ever more or ever less. Perhaps I
am, wrong, it is all new to me.'

She spoke in a slow, steady, low-toned voice.
There was an absolute hopelessness about her
whole aspect which was terrible to see. A moment's
pause followed, then, looking up at
Brian, she fancied that she read in his face
something of hesitation, of a consciousness that
he could ill express what he wished to say, and
her innate courtesy made her even now hasten
to relieve him.

Don't be afraid of speaking,' she said, a
softer light coming into her eyes. 'I don't
know why people shrink from meeting trouble.
Even Tom is half afraid of me. I am not

changed, I am still Erica; can't you understand
how much I want everyone now V

People differ so much V said Brian, a little
huskily, ' and then when one feels strongly
words do not come easily.'

Do you think I would not rather have your
sympathy than an oration from anyone else !
You who were here to the end ! you who did
everything for — for her. My father has told
me very little, he was not able to, but he told
me of you, how helpful you were, how good,
not like an outsider at all !'

Evidently she clung to the comforting recollection
that at least one tractable, sympathetic
person had been with her mother at the last.
Brian could only say how little he had done,
how much more he would fain have done had
it been possible.

I think you do comfort me by talking,' said
Erica. ' And now I want you, if you don't
mind, to tell me all from the very first. I can't
torture my father by asking him, and I couldn't
bear it from the landlady. But you were here,
you can tell me all. Don't be afraid of hurting

me ; can't you understand, if the past were the
only thing left to you, you would want to know
every tiniest detail V

He looked searchingly into her eyes, he
thought she was right. There were no degrees
to pain like hers ! besides, it was quite possible
that the lesser details of her mother's death
might bring tears which would relieve her.
Very quietly, very reverently, he told her all
that had passed, — she already knew that her
mother had died from aneurism of the heart, — he
told her how in the evening he had been summoned
to her, and from the first had known that
it was hopeless, had been obliged to tell her that
the time for speech even was but short. He had
ordered a telegram to be sent to her father at
Birmingham, but Mrs. Craigie and Tom were
out for the evening, and no one knew where
they were to be found. He and the landlady
had been alone.

'She spoke constantly of you,' he continued.
The very last words she said were these, " Tell
Erica that only love can keep from bitterness,
that love is stronger than the world's unkindness."

Then after a minute's pause she
added, " Be good to my little girl, promise to be
good to her." After that, speech became impossible,
but I do not think she suffered. Once
she motioned to me to give her the frame off
the mantelpiece with your photograph; she
looked at it and kept it near her, — she died
with it in her hand.'

Erica hid her face ; that one trifling little incident
was too much for her, the tears rained
down between her fingers. That it should
have come to that ! no one whom she loved thereat
the last — but she had looked at the photograph,
had held it to the very end, the voiceless,
useless picture had been there, the real Erica had
been laughing and talking at Paris ! Brian talked
on slowly, soothingly. Presently he paused;
then Erica suddenly looked up, and dashing
away her tears, said, in a voice which was terrible
in its mingled pain and indignation,

*■ I might have been here ! I might have
been with her ! It is the fault of that wretched
man who went bankrupt ; the fault of the bigots
who will not treat us fairly — who ruin us !'

She sobbed with passionate pain, a vivid
streak of crimson dyed her cheek, contrasting
strangely with the deathly whiteness of her
brow.

Forgive me if I pain yon,' said Brian ; ' but
have you forgotten the message I gave you ?
It is only love that can keep from bitterness
!" '

Love !^ cried Erica ; she could have screamed
it, if she had not been so physically exhausted.
Do you mean I am to love our enemies !'

It is only the love of all humanity that can
keep from bitterness,' said Brian.

Erica began to think over his reply, and in
thinking grew calm once more. By-and-by
she lifted up her face; it was pale again now,
and still, and perfectly hopeless.

I suppose you think that only Christians
can love all humanity,' she said, a little coldly.

I should call all true lovers of humanity
Christians,' replied Brian, ' whether they are
consciously followers of Christ or not.'

She thought a little; then, with a curiously hard
look in her face, she suddenly flashed round upon

bim with a question, much as her father was in
the habit of doing when an adversary had
made some broad-hearted statement which had
baffled him.

Some of you give us a little more charity
than others ; but what do you mean by Christianity
? You ask us to believe what is incredible.
Why do you believe in the resurrection?
What reason have you for thinking it true V

She expected him to go into the evidence
question, to quote the number of Christ's
appearances, to speak of the five hundred witnesses
of whom she was weary of hearing. Her
mind was proof against all this ; what could be
more probable than that a number of devoted
followers should be the victims of some optical
delusion, especially when their minds were
disturbed by grief. Here was a miracle supported
on one side by the testimony of five
hundred and odd spectators all longing to see
their late Master, and contradicted on the other
side by common-sense and the experience of the
remainder of the human race during thousands
of years ! She looked full at Brian, a hard yet

almost exultant expression in her eyes, which
spoke more plainly than words her perfect conviction
: —

'You can't set your evidences against my
counter-evidences ! you can't logically maintain
that a few uneducated men are to have more
weight than all the united experience of mankind.'


Never would she so gladly have believed in
the doctrine of hai mortality as now, yet with
characteristic honesty and resoluteness she set
herself into an attitude of rigid defence, lest
through strong desire or mere bodily weariness
she should drift into the acceptance of what
might be, what indeed she considered to be
error. But to her surprise, half to her
disappointment, Brian did not even mention the
evidences. She had braced herself up to
withstand arguments drawn from the five
hundred brethren, but the preparation was
useless.

I believe in the resurrection said Brian,
because I cannot doubt Jesus Christ. He is
the most perfectly loveable and tractable Being

I know, or can conceive of knowing. He said
He should rise again, I believe that He did rise.
He was perfectly truthful, therefore He could
not mislead : He knew, therefore He could not
be misled.'

W do not consider Him to be all that you
assert,' said Erica. ' Nor do His followers
make one inclined to think that either He or His
teaching Avere so perfect as you try to make
out. You are not so hard-hearted as most of
them '

She broke off, seeing a look of pain on her
companion's face.

Oh, what am I saying !' she cried, in a very
different tone, ' you who have done so much —
you who were always good to us, — I did not
indeed mean to hurt you it is your creed that
I can't help hating, not you. You are our
friend, you said so long ago.'

'Always,' said Brian, 'never doubt that.'

Then you must forgive me for having
wounded you said Erica, her whole face
softening. ' You must remember how hard it
all is, and that I am so very, very miserable.'

He would have given his life to bring her
comfort, but he was not a very great believer
in words, and, besides, he thought she had talked
quite as long as she ought.

I think,' he said, ' that, honestly acted out,
the message entrusted to me ought to c iifort
your misery.'

1 can't act it out,' she said.

You will begin to try,' was Brian's answer ;
and then, with a very full heart, he said goodbye
and left his Undine sitting by the fire,
with her head resting on her hands and the
words of her mother's message echoing in her
ears. 'It is only love that can keep from
bitterness, love is stronger than the world's unkindness.*


Presently, not daring to dwell too much on
that last scene which Brian had described, she
turned to his strange, unexpected reason for his
belief in the resurrection, and mused over the
characteristics of his ideal. Then she thought
she would like to see again what her ideal man
had to say about his, and she got up and
searched for a small book in a Hip red cover.

labelled ' Life of Jesus of Nazareth. Luke Raeburn.'
It was more than two years since she
had seen it ; she read it through once more. The
style was vigorous, the veiled sarcasms were
not unpleasant to her, she detected no unfairness
in the mode of treatment, the book satisfied
her, the conclusion arrived at seemed to
her inevitable — Brian Osmond's ideal was not
perfect.

With a sigh of utter weariness she shut the
book and leant back in her chair with a still,
white, hopeless face. Presently Friskarina
sprang up on her knee with a little sympathetic
mew ; she had been too miserable as yet
to notice even her favourite cat very much,
now a scarcely perceptible shade of relief came
to her sadness, she stroked the soft grey head*
But scarcely had she spoken to her favourite,
when the cat suddenly turned away, sprang
from her knee and trotted out of the room. It
seemed like actual desertion, and Erica could
ill bear it just then.

What, you too, Frisked,' she said to herself,
are even you glad to keep away from me?'

She hid her face in her hands ; desolate and
miserable as she had been before, she now felt
more completely alone.

In a few minutes something warm touching
her foot made her look up, and with one bound
Friskarina sprang into her lap, carrying in her
mouth a young kitten. She purred contentedly,
looking first at her child and then at her
mistress, saying as plainly as if she had spoken,

Will this comfort you V

Erica stroked and kissed both cat and kitten,
and for the first time since her trouble a feeling
of warmth came to her frozen heart.

VOL. I. N

CHAPTER IX.

ROSE.

A life of unalloyed content,

A life like that of land-locked seas.

J. R. Lowell.

^ Elspeth, you really must tell me, I'm dying of
curiosity, and I can see by your face you know
all about it ! How is it that grandpapa^s name
is in the papers when he has been dead all these
years ? I tell you I saw it, a little paragraph in
to-day's paper, headed, ' Mr. Luke Raeburn.' Is
this another namesake who has something to do
with him V

The speaker was a tall, bright-looking girl of
eighteen, a blue-eyed, flaxen-haired blonde,
with a saucy little mouth, about which there
now lurked an expression of undisguised

curiosity. Rose for that was her name, was
something of a coax, and all her life long she
had managed to get her own way ; she was an
only child, and had been not a little spoilt ; butin
spite of many faults she was loveable, and
beneath her outer shell of vanity and self-satisfaction
there lay a sterling little heart.

Her companion, Elspeth, was a wrinkled old
woman, whose smooth grey hair was almost
hidden by a huge mob-cap, which, in defiance
of modern custom, she wore tied under her
chin. She had nursed Rose and her mother
before her, and had now become more like a
family friend than a servant.

'miss Rose,' she replied, looking up from her
works ' if you go on chatter-lagging away
like this, there'll be no frock ready for you to-nights
and with a most uncommunicative air,
the old woman turned away, and gave a little
impressive shake to the billowy mass of white
tarlatan to which she was putting the finishing-touches.


The white lilies just at the side,' said Rose,
her attention diverted for a moment. ' Won't

N 2

it be lovely ! the prettiest dress in. the room, I'm
sure Then, her en riositj returning, 'But, Els-path.
I shan't enjoy the dance a bit unless you
tell me what Mr. Luke Raeburn has to do with
us? Listen, and I'll tell you how I found out.
Papa brought the paper up to mamma, and
said, "Did you see this And then mamma
read it, and the colour came all over her face,
and she did not say a word, but went out of
the room pretty soon. And then I took up the
paper, and looked at the page she had been
reading, and saw grandpa's name.'

What was it about?' asked old Elspeth.

That's just what I couldn't understand; it
was all about secularists. What are secularists ?
But it seems that this Luke Raeburn, whoever
he is, has lost his wife. While he was lecturing
at Birmingham on the soul, it said his wife
died, and this paragraph said it seemed like a
judgment, which was rather cool I think.'

'Poor laddie !' sighed old Elspeth.

Elspeth/ cried Rose. ' do you know who the
man is V

Miss Roses said the old woman, severely,

*iii my young days there was a saying that
you'd do well to lay to heart, '• Ask no questions,
and you'll be told no stories." '

'It isn't your young days now, it's your old
days, Elsie said the imperturbable Rose. ' I will
ask you questions as much as I please, and
you'll tell me what this mystery means, there's
a dear old nurse ! Have I uot a right to know
about my own relations?'

Ohj bairn ! bairn ! if it were anything you'd
like to hear; but why should you know what is
all sad and gloomful ? No, no, go to your balls,
and think of your fine dresses and gran' partners,
though, for the matter of that, it is but vanity
of vanities '

Oh, if you're going to quote Ecclesiastes, I
shall go I' said Rose, pouting. ' I wish that
book wash in the Bible !' I'm sure such
an old grumbler ought to have been in the
Apocrypha

Elspeth shook her head, and muttered something
about judgment and trouble. Rose began
to be doubly curious.

Trouble, sadness, a mystery — perhaps a

tragedy ! Rose had read of such things in
books ; were there such things actually in the
family, and she had never known of them ? A
few hours ago and she had been unable to
think of anything but her first ball, her new
dress, her flowers ; but she was seized now with
the most intense desire to fathom this mystery.
That it bid fair to be a sad mystery only made
her more eager and curious. She was so
young, so ignorant, there was still a halo of
romance about those unknown things, trouble
and sadness.

Elspeth, you treat me like a child !' she exclaimed;
'it's really too bad of you.'

Maybe you're rights bairns said the old
nurse; 'but it's no doing of mine. But look
here, Miss Rose, you be persuaded by me, go
straight to your mamma and ask her yourself.
Maybe there is a doubt whether you oughtn't
to know, but there is no doubt that I mustn't
tell you.'

Rose hesitated, but presently her curiosity
overpowered her reluctance.

Mrs. Fane-Smith, or, as she had been called

in her maiden days. Isabel RaeburD, was remarkably
like her daughter in so far as features
and colouring were concerned, but she was exceedingly
unlike her in character, for whereas
Rose was vain and self-confident, and had a
decided will of her own, her mother was diffident
and exaggeratedly humble. She was a
kind-hearted and a good woman, but she was
in danger of losing almost all the real blessedness
of life by perpetually harassing herself
with the question, ' What will people say V

She looked up apprehensively as her daughter
came into the room. Rose felt sure she had
been crying, her curiosity was still further
stimulated, and with all the persuasiveness at
her command, she urged her mother to tell her
the meaning of the mysterious paragraph.

I am sorry you have asked me,' said Mrs.
Fane-Smith, 'but, perhaps, since you are no
longer a child you had better know. It is a
sad story, however. Rose, and I should not have
chosen to tell it you to-day of all days.^

'But I want to hear, mamma,' said Rose,
decidedly. ' Please begin. Who is this Mr.
Raeburn?'

He is my brother,' said Mrs. Fane-smith,
^vith a little quiver in her voice.

Your brother ! My uncle I' cried Rose, in
amazement.

'Luke was the eldest of us,' said Mrs. Fane-smith,
*then came Jean, and I was the youngest
of all, at least of those who lived.'

^ Then 1 have an aunt, too, an aunt Jean !'
exclaimed Rose.

You shall hear the whole story' replied her
mother. She thought for a minute, then in
rather a low voice she began. ' Luke and Jean
were always the clever ones, Luke especially ;
your grandfather had set his heart on his being
a clergyman, and you can fancy the grief it was
to us when he threw up the whole idea, and
declared that he could never take orders. He
was only nineteen when he renounced religion
altogether; he and my father had a great
dispute, and the end of it was that Luke was
sent away from home, and T have never seen
him since. He has become a very notorious
infidel lecturer. Jean was very much unsettled
by his change of views, and I believe her real

reason for marrjii]^' old Mr. Craigie was that
she had made him promise to let her see Luke
again. She married young and settled down in
London, and when, in a few years, her husband
died, she too renounced Christianity.'

To tell the truth, Rose was not deeply interested
in the story, it fell a little flat after her
expectations of a tragedy. It had, moreover, a
sort of missionary flavour, and she had till the
last few months lived in India, and had grown
heartily tired of the details of mission-work, in
which both her father and mother had been interested.
Conversions, relapses, heathenism,
belief and unbelief were words which had
sounded so often in her ears that now they bored
her; as they were the merest words to her it
could hardly be otherwise. But Rose's best
point was her loyalty to her own family, she
bad the ' clan ' feeling very strongly, and she
could not understand how her mother could
have allowed such a complete estrangement to
grow up between her and her nearest relations.

'Mamma,' she said, quickly, 'I should have
gone to see Uncle Luke if I had been you.'

It is impossible, dear,' replied Mrs. Fane-smith.
' Your father would not allow it for
one thing, and then only think what people
would say ! This is partly my reason for
telling you, Rose ; I want to put you upon
your guard. We heard little or nothing of
your uncle when we were in India, but you will
find it very different here. He is one of the
most notorious men in England ; you must
never mention his name, never allude to him,
do you understand me?'

Is he then so wicked V

My dear, consider what his teaching is, that
is sufficient ; T would not for the whole world
allow our Greyshot friends to guess that we are
connected with him in any way. It might' ruin
all your prospects in life.'

Mamma,' said Rose, ' I don't think Mr.
Raeburn will injure my prospects — of course
you mean prospects of marrying. If a man
didn't care enough for me to take me whether I
am the niece of the worst man in England or
not, do you think I would accept him V

There was an angry ring in her voice as she

spoke, her little saucy mouth looked almost
grand. After a moment's pause she added,
more quietly, but with all the force of the true
woman's heart which lay hidden beneath her
silliness and frivolity, ' Besides mamma, is it
quite honest V

We are not bound to publish our family
history to the world, Rose. If anyone asked
me, of course I should tell the truth; if there
was any way of helping my brother or his child,
I would gladly serve them , even though the
world would look coldly on me for doing so ; but
while they remain atheists how is it possible V

Then he has a child V

One only, I believe, a girl of about your own
age.'

Oh, mamma, how I should Hke to know
her!' .

My dear Rose, how can you speak of such a
thing ! You don't realise that she is an atheist
has not even been baptised, poor little thing.'

But she is my cousin and she is a girl just
like me,' said Rose. ' I should like to know her
very ranch. I wonder whether she has come

out yet. I wonder how she enjoyed her first
ball.'

My dear ! they are not in society.'

How dull ! what does she do all day, I
wonder?'

^I cannot tell, and I wish you would not talk
about her, Rose ; I should not wish you even to
think about her, except, indeed, to mention her
in your prayers.'

Oh, I'd much rather have her here to stay,'
said Rose, with a little mischievous gleam in
her eyes.

Rose !'

Why, mamma, if she were a black unbeliever
you would be delighted to have her, it
is only because she is white that you won't
have anything to do with her. You would
have been as pleased as possible if I had
made friends with any of the ladies in the
Zenanas.'

Mrs. Fane-Smith looked uncomfortable, and
murmured that that was a very different question.
Rose, seeing her advantage, made haste
to follow it up.

'At any rate, mamma, you will write to Uncle
Luke now that he is in trouble, and you'll
let me send a note to his daughter? Only
think, mamma, she has lost her mother so suddenly
I just think how wretched she must be !
Oh, mamma dear, I can't think how she can
bear it I' and Rose threw her arms round her
mother's neck. ' I should die too if you were to
die ! I'm sure I should !'

Rose was very persuasive, Mrs. Fane-Smith's
motherly heart was touched ; she sat down
there and then and for the first time since the
summer day when Luke Raeburn had been
turned out of his father's house, she wrote to
her brother. Rose in the meantime had taken
a piece of paper from her mother's writing-desk,
and with a fat volume of sermons by way
of a desk, was scribbling away as fast as she
could. This was her letter :

My dear Cousin,

I don't know your name, and have
only just heard anything about you, and the
first thing I heard was that you were in dreadful

trouble. I only write to send you my love
sand to say how very sony I am for yon.
AYe only came to England in the autumn. I
like it very much. I am going to my first ball
to-night, and expect to enjoy it immensely.

My dress is to be white tarda Oh, dear I

how horrid of me to be writing like this to
you. Please forgive me. I don't like to be so
happy when you are unhappy ; but, you see I
have only just heard of you, so it is a little
difficult. With love,
I remain,

Your affectionate cousin,

Rose Fane Smith.'

That evening, while Erica, with eyes dim
with grief and weariness, was poring over the
books in her father's study, Rose was being-initiated
into all the delights of the ball-room.
She was in her glory. Everything was new to
her ; she enjoyed dancing, she knew that she
looked pretty, knew that her dress was charming,
knew that she was much admired, and of
course she liked it all. But the chaperons

shook their' beads ; it was Whispered that Miss
Fane-Smith was a terrible flirt, she had danced
no less than seven dances with Captain Go-lightly.
If her mother erred by thinking too
much of what people said, perhaps Rose erred
in exactly the opposite way ; at any rate, she
managed to call down upon her silly but innocent
little head an immense amount of blame
from the mothers and elderly ladies.

A glorious moonlight night,' said Captain
Golightly. ' What do you say. Miss Fane-smith?
Shall we take a turn in the garden?
Or are you afraid of the cold V

Afraid ! oh, dear, no,^ said Rose, ' it is the
very thing I should enjoy ; I suppose I must get
my shawl, though ; it is upstairs

They were in the vestibule.

Have my ulster,' said Captain Golightly.
Here it is, just handy, and it will keep you
much warmer.'

Rose laughed and blushed, and allowed herself
to be put into her partner's coat', rather to
the detriment of her billowy tarlatan. x\fter a
while they came back again from the dim garden

to the brightly-lighted vestibule, and as
ill-luck would have it, chanced to encounter a
stream of people going into the supper-room.
Everyone stared at the apparition of Miss Fane-smith
in Captain Gohghtly's coat. With some
difficulty she struggled out of it, and with
very hot cheeks sought shelter in the ballroom.


How dreadfully they looked ! Do you think
it was wrong of me?' she half whispered to her
partner.

Oh, dear, no ! sensible, and plucky, and
everything delightful ! You are much too
charming to be bound down to silly conventionalities.
Come, let us have this dance ! I'm
sure you are engaged to some one in the supper-room
who can't deserve such a delightful partner.
Let us have this trois temps, and hurl defiance
at the Greyshot chaperons.'

Rose laughed, and allowed herself to be
borne oiF. She had been excited before,
now she was doubly excited, and Captain
Golightly had the most delicious step
imaginable.

CHAPTER X.

HARD AT WORK.

Longing is God's fresh heavenward will

With our poor earthward striving ;
We quench it that we may be still

Content with merely living ;
But, would we learn that heart's full scope

Which we are hourly wronging,
Our lives must climb from hope to hope

And realise our longing.

J. R. Lowell.

Perhaps it was only natural that there should
be that winter a good deal of communication
between the secularist's house in Guilford
Terrace and the clergyman's house in Guilford
Square. From the first Raeburn had taken a
great fancy to Charles Osmond, and now that
Brian had become so closely connected with
VOL. I.

the memory of their sudden bereavement, and
had made himself almost one of them by his
silent, unobtrusive sympathy, and by his numberless
acts of delicate considerateness, a tie
was necessarily formed which promised to
deepen into one of those close friendships
that sometimes exist between two entire
families.

It was a bleak, chilly afternoon in March,
when Charles Osmond, returning from a long
round of parish work, thought he would lookin
for a few minutes at the Returns' ; he had
a proposal to make to Erica, some fresh work
which he thought might interest her. He rang
the bell at the now familiar door and was admitted
; it carried him back to the day when he
had first called there and had been shown into
the fire-lit room, with the look-lined walls, and
the pretty little girl curled up on the rug, with
her cat and her toasting-fork. Time had
brought many changes since then. This evening
he was again shown into the study, but
this time the gas was lighted and there was
no little girl upon the hearth-rug. Erica was

sitting at her desk hard at work. Her face
lighted up at the sight of her visitor.

Everyone is out except me,' she said, more
brightly than he had heard her speak since her
return. ' Did you really come to see me ? How
good of you.'

But you are busy,' said Charles Osmond,
glancing at the papers on her desk. ' Press-work
V

Yes my first article,' said Erica, 'it is just
finished, but if you'll excuse me for one minute,
I ought to correct it, the office boy will call for
it directly.'

^ Don't hurry ; I will wait and get warm in
the meantime,' said Charles Osmond, establishing
himself by the fire.

There was a silence broken only by the
sound of Erica's pen as she crossed out a word
or a line. Charles Osmond watched her and
mused. This beautiful girl, whose development
he could trace now for more than two
years back, what would she grow into ?
Already she was writing in the Idol-Breaker.

He regretted it. Yet it was obviously the



most natural employment for her. He looked
at her ever-changing face, she was absorbed in
her work, her expression varying with the sentences
she read ; now there was a look of
triumphant happiness as she came to something
which made her heart beat quickly, again a
shade of dissatisfaction at the consciousness of
her inability to express what was in her mind.
He could not help thinking that it was one of
the noblest faces he had ever seen and now
that the eyes were downcast it was not so
terribly sad ; there was moreover for the first
time since her mother's death a faint tinge of
colour in her cheeks. Before five minutes could
have passed, the bell rang again.

That is my boy,' she exclaimed, and, hastily
blotting her sheets, she rolled them up , gave
them to the servant closed her desk, and,
crossing the room, knelt down in front of the
fire to warm her hands, which were stiff and
chilly.

'How rude I have been to you,' she said,
smiling a little, * I always have been rude to
you, since the very first time we met.'

We were always frank with each other,'
said Charles Osmond ; ' I remember you gave me
your opinion as to bigots and Christians in the
most delightfully open way. So you have been
writing your first article?'

Yes,' and she stretched herself as though she
were rather tired and cramped. ^ I have had a
delicious afternoon. Yesterday I was in despair
about it, but to-day it just came — I wrote it
straight off.'

And you are satisfied with it V

Satisfied ? oh, no ! Is anybody ever satisfied
? By the time it is in print I shall want to
alter every sixth line. Still, I daresay it will
say a little of what I want said.'

'Oh, you do want something said

Of course !' she replied, a little indignantly.
■* If not, how could I write.'

I quite agree with you,' said Charles ,
' and you mean to take this up as your
vocation V

If I am thought worthy,' said Erica, colouring
a little.

I see you have high ideas of the art,' said

Charles Osmond; 'and what is your reason for
taking it up V

First of all, though it sounds rather illogical
said Erica, 'I write because I must, there is
something in me which will have its say. Then,
too, it is part of our creed that everyone should
do all in his power to help on the cause, and
of course, if only for my father's sake, it would
be my greatest pleasure. Then, last of all, I
write because I must earn my living.'

'Good reasons all,' said Charles Osmond.
But I don't feel sure that you won't regret
having written when you look back several
years hence.'

Oh ! I daresay it will all seem crude and
ridiculous then, but one must make a beginning,'
said Erica.

And are you sure you have thought out
these great questions so thoroughly and fairly
that you are capable of teaching others about
their

Ah ! now I see what you mean !' exclaimed
Erica, 'you think I write in defence of atheism,
or as an attacked of Christianity. I do nothing

of the kind, father would not allow me to, he
would not think me old enough. Oh ! no, I am
only to write the lighter articles which are
needed every now and then. To-day I had a
delightful subject — " Heroes — what are they 1" '

Well, and what is your definition of a hero
I wonder, what are the qualities you think absolutely
necessary to make one V

I think I have only tv/o absolutely necessary
ones,' said Erica, ' but my heroes must have
these two, they must have brains and goodness.'


A tolerably sweeping definition,' said
Charles Osmond, laughing, * almost equal to a
friend of mine who wanted a wife, and said
there were only two things he would stipulate
for — £1500 a year, and an angel! But it
brings us to another definition, you see. We
shall agree as to the brains, but how about
goodness V What is your definition of that
very wide, not to say vague, term V

Erica looked puzzled.

I don't think I can define it,' she said, ' but
one knows it when one sees it.'

Do 3'ou mean by it, unselfishness, courage,
truthfulness or any other virtue?'

Oh ! it isn't any one virtue, or even a parcel
of virtues, it will not go into words.'

It is then the nearest approach to some
perfect ideal which is in your mind?'

'I suppose it is,' she said, slowly.

How did that ideal come into your mind V

I don't know, T suppose I got it b}^ inheritance.'


From the original modern V

You are laughing at me. I don't know how
of course, but I have it, which, as far as I can
see, is all that matters.'

I am not sure of that,' said Charles Osmond.
the explanation of that ideal of goodness
which more or less clearly exists in all our
minds, seems to me to rest only in the conviction
that all are children of one perfect Father.
And I can give you our definition of goodness
without hesitation, it is summed up for us in
one word — " Christlikeness.'

I cannot see it, it seems to me all exaggerated,'
said Erica, ' 1 believe it is only because

people are educated to believe and predisposed
to think it all good and perfect that there are
so many Christians. Yon may say it is we who
are prejudiced. If we are, I'm sure you Christians
have done enough to make us so! How
could I, for instance, be anything but an atheist
? Shall I tell you the very first thing I can
remember.'

Her eyes were flashing with indignant
light.

'I was a little tiny child — only four years
old — but there are some scenes one never
forgets. I can see it all as plainly as possible,
the room in a hotel, the very doll I was playing
with. There was a great noise in the
street, trampling, hissing, hooting. I ran to
the window an immense crowed was coming-nearer
and nearer, the street was black with
the throng, they were all shouting and yelling
'down with the infidel !" "Kill the atheist!"
Then I saw my father, he was there strong and
fearless, one man against a thousand ! I tell
you I saw him, I can see him now, fighting his
way on single-handed, not one creature brave

enough to stand up for him ! I saw him pushed,
struck spit upon, stoned. At last a great
brick struck him on the head. I think I must
have been too sick or too angry to see anymore
after that. The next thing I remember
is lying on the floor sobbing, and hearing father
come into the room and say, " Why little sou
Eric, did you think they'd killed me f And
he picked me up and let me sit on his knee, but
there was blood on his face, and as he kissed
me it dropped upon my forehead. I tell you,
you Christians baptized me into atheism in my
own father's blood ! They were Christians
who stoned him, champions of religion, and they
Avere egged on by the clergy ! Did I not hear
it all then in my babyhood V And it is true ! it
is all fact ! ask anybody you like ! I have not
exaggerated !'

My dear child, I know you have not,' said
Charles Osmond, putting his strong hand upon
hers. He could feel that she was all trembling
with indignation. Was it to be wondered at ?
I remember those riots perfectly well,' he continued.
' I think I felt and feel as indignant

about them as yourself. A fearful mistake was
made — Mr. Raeburn was shamefully treated.
But Erica,' — it was the first time he had called
her by her name, — ' you who pride yourself
upon fairness, you who make justice your
watchword, must be careful not to let the
wrong-doing of a few Christians prejudice you
against Christianity. You say that we are
all predisposed to accept Christ, but candidly
you must allow I think that you are trebly
prejudiced against the very name of Christian,
A Christian almost inevitably means to you
only one of your father's mistaken persecutors.'


Yes, you are so much of an exception that
I always forget you are ones said Erica, smiling
a little. ' Yet you are not like one of us quite
sou somehow stand alone, you are unlike
anyone I ever met; you and Thekla Conventual
and your son make to me a sort of new
variety.'

Charles Osmond laughed , and changed the
subject.

You are busy with your examination work

I suppose?' And the question led to a long talk
about books and lectures.

In truth, Erica had plunged into work of all
kinds, not merely from love of it, but because
she felt the absolute need of fresh interests, the
great danger of dwelling unduly on her sorrow
Then, too, she had just grasped a new idea, an
idea at once noble and inspiriting. Hitherto
she had thought of a happy future for herself,
of a home free from troubles and harassing
cares. That was all over now, her golden
dream had come to an end, and ' Hope dead
lives nevermore.' The life she had pictured to
herself could never be, but her nature was too
strong to be crushed by the sorrow ; physically
the shock had weakened her far more than anyone
knew, but, mentally, it had been a wonderful
stimulant. She rose above herself, above
her trouble, and life began to mean something
broader and deeper than before.

Hitherto her great desire had been to be free
from care, and to be happy ; now the one important
thing seemed not so much to be happy,
as to know. To learn herself, and to help

others to learn became her chief object, and,
with all the devotion of an earnest, high-souled
nature, she set herself to act out these convictions.
She read hard attended lectures, and
twice a week taught in the night school attached
to the Institute.

Charles Osmond could not help smiling as
she described her days to him. She still retained
something of the childishness of an Undine,
and as they talked she had taken up her
old position on the hearth rug, and Friskarina
had crept on to her knee. Here, undoubtedly,
was one whom ignorant people would stigmatise
as ' blue ' or as a femme savante ;' they would
of course be quite wrong and inexpressibly
foolish to use such terms, and yet there was,
perhaps, something a little incongruous in the
two sides, as it were, of Erica's nature the keen
intellect and the child-like devotion, the great
love of learning and the intense love of fun and
humour. Charles Osmond had only once in all
his long years of experience met with a character
which interested him so much.

After all,' he said, when they had talked for

some times ' I have never told you that I came
on a begging errand, and I half fear that you
"still be too busy to undertake any more work.'

Erica's face brightened at the word ; was not
work what she lived for ?

Oh ! I am not too busy for anything I' she
exclaimed. 'I shall quote Marcus Aurelius to
you if you say I haven't time ! What sort of
work?'

Only, when you can, to come in to us in the
afternoon and read a little to my mother. Do
you think you could? Her eyes are failing, and
Brian and I are hard at work all day ; I am
afraid she is very dull.'

I should like to come very much,' said Erica,
really pleased at the suggestion. what sort
of books would Mrs. Osmond like?'

Oh, anything ! history, travels, science, or
even novels, if you are not above reading them!'

I ? of course not,' said Erica laughing.
Don't you think we enjoy them as much as
other people? when there is time to read them,
at least, which isn't often.'

Charles Osmond laughed.

*Very well, then, you have a wide field.
From Carlyle to Miss Bird, and from Ernst
Haeckel to Charles Reade. I should make them
into a big sandwich if I were }'ou.'

He said good-bye, and left Erica still on the
hearth-rng, her face brighter than it had been
for months.

*I like that man,' she said to herself. 'He's
honest and thorough, and good all through.
Yet how in the Avorld does he make himself
believe in his creed ! Goodness, Christlikeness.
He looked so grand, too, as he said that. It is
wonderful what a personal sort of devotion
those three have for their ideal''

She wandered away to recollections of Thekia
Sonnenthal, and that carried her back to the
time of their last parting, and the recollection
of her sorrow. All at once the loneliness of the
present was borne in upon her overwhelmingly;
she looked round the little room, the Ilkley
couch was pushed away into a corner, there was
a pile of newspapers upon it. A great sob
escaped her. For a minute she pressed her
hands tightly together over her eyes, then she

hurriedly opened a book on ^ Electricity,' and
began to read as if for her life.

She was roused in about an hour's time by a
laughing exclamation. She started, and, looking
up, saw her cousin Tom.

Talk about absorption, and brown studies !'
he cried, ' why, you beat everything I ever saw.
I've been looking at you for at least three
minutes.'

Tom was now about nineteen ; he had inherited
the auburn colouring of the Returns, but
otherwise he was said to be much more like
the Craigie. He was nice-looking, but somewhat
freckled, and though he was tall and
strongly built, he somehow betrayed that he
had led a sedentary life and looked, in fact, as
if he wanted a training in gymnastics. For
the rest he was shrewd, business-like, good-natured,
aud at present very conceited. He
had been Erica's friend and playfellow as long
as she could remember, they were brother
and sister in all but the name, for they had
lived within a stone's throw of each other all
their lives, and now shared the same house.

I never beard you come in,' she said, smiling
a little. ' You must have been very quiet.'

I don't believe you'd hear a salute fired in
the next room if you were reading, you little
bookworm ! But look here ! I've got a parody
on the chieftain that'll make you cry with
laughing. You remember the smashed windows
at the meeting at Rilchester last week V

Erica remembered well enough, she had
felt sore and angry about it, and the comments
in the newspapers had not been consolatory.
She had learnt to dread even th
comic papers, but there was nothing spiteful in
the one which Tom produced that evening. It
was headed :

Scotch Song.
Tune — ^^Twas within a mile of Edinhoro' town''

'Twas within a hall of Rilchester town,
In the bleak spring time of the year,
Luke Raeburn gave a lecture on the soul of man.
And found that it cost him dear.
Windows all were smashed that day,
They said, " The atheist can pay,"
But Scottish Raeburn frowning cried,
Na, na, it minna do,
I canna, canna, minna, minna, manna pay for you." '

VOL. I. P

The parody ran on through the three verses
of the song, the conclusion was really witty,
and there was no sting in it. Erica laughed
over it as she had not laughed for weeks.
Tom, who had been trying unsuccessfully to
cheer her ever since her return, was quite relieved.


I believe the sixpence a day style suits you,'
he said, * but, I say, isn't anything coming up ?
I'm as hungry as a hunter.'

Their elders being away for a few days, Tom
and Erica were amusing themselves by trying
to live on the rather strange diet of the man
who published his plan for living at the smallest
possible cost. They were already beginning
to be rather weary ^^ porridge, pea-soup,
and lentils. This evening ' sa-soup was in the
ascendant, and Erica, tired with a long afternoon's
work, felt as if she could almost as soon
have eaten Thames mud.'

Dear me,' she said, * it never struck me, this
is our Lenten penance ! Now , wouldn't anyone
looking-in fancy we were poor Romanists without
an indulgence V

Certainly without any self-indulgence,' said
Tom, who never lost an opportunity of making
a bad pun.

'It would be a great indulgence to stop
eating,' said Erica, sighing over the soup yet
to be swallowed.

Do you think it is more inspiriting to fast
in order to save one's soul, than it is to pay
the chieftain's debts? I wish I could honestly
say, like the little French girl in her confession,
*' J^ii trop mange." '

Tom dearly loved that story, he was exceedingly
fond of getting choice little anecdotes
from various religious newspapers, especially
those which dealt in much abuse of the Church
of Rome, and ' tailed them con amove.

Erica listened to 'coal to-night and laughed a
good deal over them.

*■ I wonder, though, they don't see how they
play into our hands by putting in these things,'
she said, after Tom had given her a description
of some ludicrous attack made by a ritualist on
an evangelical. I should have thought they
would have tried to agree whenever they could,

p2

instead of which they seem almost as spiteful
to each other as they are to us.'

They'd know better if they'd more than a
grain of sense between them,' said Tom, sweepingly,
'but they haven't; and as they're always
playing battledore and shuttlecock with that, it
isn't much good to either. Of course they play
into our hands ! I believe the spiteful ultra-high
paper, and the spiteful ultra-low paper
do more to promote atheism than the Idol-breaker
itself.'

How dreadful it must be for ren like Mr.
Osmond, who see all round, and yet can't stop
what they must think the mischief. Mr. Osmond
has been here this afternoon.'

Ah, now, he's a stunning fellow, if you likes
said Tom. 'He's not one of the pig-headed
narrow-minded set. How he comes to be a parson
I can't make out.'

Well, you see, from their point of view it is
the best thing to be, I mean he gets plenty of
scope for work. I expect he feels as much
obliged to speak and teach as father does.'

Pity he's not on our side,' said Tom, ' they

say he's a first-rate speaker. But I'm afraid
he is perfectly crazy on that point, he'll never
come over.'

'I don't think we've a right to put the whole
of his religiousness down to a mania,' said
Erica. 'Besides, he is not the sort of man to
be even a little mad there's nothing the least
fanatical about him.'

Call it delusion, if you like it better. What's
in a name? The thing remains the same! A
man can't believe what is utterly against reason
without becoming, as far as that particular belief
is concerned, unreasonable, beyond the pale of
reason, therefore decided, therefore mad.'

Erica looked perplexed ; she did not think
Tom's logic altogether good, but she could not
correct it. There was, however, a want of
generosity about the assertion which instantly
appealed to her fine sense of honour.

I can't argue it out,' she said at last, ' but
it doesn't seem to me fair to put down what we
can't understand in other people to madness ; it
never seemed to me quite fair for Festus to
accuse Paul of madness when he really had

made a splendid defence, and it doesn't seem
fair that you should accuse Mr. Osmond of being
mad.'

Only on that one point,' said Tom. * Just a
little touched, you know. How else can you
account for a man like that believing what he
professes to believe.'

I don't know,' said Erica, relapsing into
perplexed silence.

'Besides,' continued Tom, 'you cry out because
I say they must be just a little touched,
but they accuse us of something far worse than
madness , they accuse us of absolute wickedness.'


Not all of them'' said Erica.

The greater part, ' said Tom. ^ How often
do you think the chieftain meets with really
fair treatment from his antagonists V

Erica had nothing to say to this. The harshness
and intolerance which her father had constantly
to encounter was the great grief of her
life, the perpetual source of indignation, her
strongest argument against Christianity.

Have you much to do to-night V she asked,.

not anxious to stir up afresh the revolt against
the world's injustice which the merest touch
would set working within her. 'I was thinking
that, if there was time to spare, we might goto
see the Professor ; he has promised to show
me some experiments.'

Electricity f Tom pricked up his ears.
Not half a bad idea. If you'll help me, we
can polish off the letters in an hour or so, and
be free by eight o^clock.^

They set to work, and between them disposed
of the correspondence.

It was a great relief to Erica after her long
day's work to be out in the cool evening air.
The night was fine but very windy, indeed the
sudden gusts at the street corners made her
glad to take Tom's arm. Once, as they
rather slackened their speed, half-baffled by
the storm, a sentence from a passer-by fell on
their ears. The speaker looked like a countryman.


Give me a good gas-burner with pipes and a
meter that a honest man can understand ! Now
this 'ere elective light I say it's not canny;

I've no belief in things o' that kind, it won't

never '

The rest of the speech died away in the
distance. Tom and Erica laughed, but the
incident set Erica thinking. Here was a man
who would not believe what he could not
understand, who wanted '^ pipes and a meter,'
and for want of comprehensible outward signs
pooh-poohed the great new discovery.

Tom,' she said slowly, and with the manner
of one who makes a very unpleasant suggestion,
reluctantly putting forward an unwelcome
thought, ' suppose if, after all, we are like that
man, and reject a grand discovery because we
don't know and are too ignorant to understand !
Tom, just suppose if, after all, Christianity
should be true and we in the wrong!'

Just suppose if, after all, the earth should bea
flat plain with the sun moving round it !'
replied Tom, scornfully.

They were walking down the Strand ; he did
not speak for some minutes, in fact he was
looking at the people who passed by them.
For the first time in his life a great contrast

struck him. Disreputable vulgarity, wickedness,
and vice stared him in the face, then involuntarily
he turned to Erica and looked down at
her scrutinizingly as he had never looked before.
She was evidently rapt in thought but it was
not the intellect in her face which he thought of
just then, though it was ever noticeable, nor
was it the actual beauty of feature which struck
him, it was rather an undefined consciousness
that here was a purity which was adorable.
From that moment he became no longer a boy,
but a man with a high standard of womanhood.
Instantly he thought with regret of his scornful
little speech, — it was contemptible !

I beg your pardon,' he said, abruptly, as if she
had been following his whole train of thought.
Of course one is bound to study the question
fairly ; but we have done that, and all that
remains for us is to live as usefully as we
can and as creditably to the cause as maybe.'


They had turned down one of the dingy
little streets leading to the river, and now
stood outside Professor Gosse's door. Erica

did not reply. It was true she had heard
arguments for and against Christianity all her
life, but had she ever studied it with strict impartiality
? Had she not always been strongly
biassed in favour of Secularism '.^ Had not Mr.
Osmond gone unpleasantly near the mark
when he warned her against being prejudiced
by the wrong doing of a few modern Christians
against Christianity itself! She was coming
now for special instruction in science from one
who was best calculated to teach ; she would
not have dreamt of asking instruction from one
who was a disbeliever in science. Would the
same apply in matters of religious belief? Was
she bound actually to ask instruction from
Charles Osmond, for instance, even though she
believed that he taught error, — harmful error ?
Yet who was to be the judge of what was
error, except by perfectly fair consideration of
both sides of the case. Had she been fair?
AVhat was perfect fairness ?

But people must go on living, and must
speak and act even though their minds are in a
chaos of doubts and questionings. They had

reached Professor Gosse's study, or as he himself
called it, his workshop, and Erica turned
with relief to the verifiable results of scientific
inquiry.

CHAPTER XI,

THE WHEELS RUN DOWN.

Great grace, as saith Sir Thomas More,
To him must needs be given,
Who heareth heresy, and leaves
The heretic to Heaven.

Whittier.

The clock in a Neighbouring church tower was
just striking five on a warm afternoon in June.
The pillar-box stood at the corner of Guilford
Square nearest the church, and on this particular
afternoon there chanced to be several people
running at the last moment to post their
letters. Among others were Brian and Erica.
Brian, with a great bundle of parish notices,
had just reached the box when running down
the other side of the square at full speed he

saw his Undine carrying a bag full of letters.
He had not met her for some weeks, for it happened
to have been a busy time with him, and ,
though she had been very good in coming to
read to old Mrs. Osmond, he had always just
missed her.

This is a funny meeting-places she exclaimed,
rather breathlessly. ' It never struck me
before what a truly national institution the
Post Office is, — a place where people of all
creeds and opinions can meet together, and are
actually treated alike !'

Brian smiled.

You have been very busy'' he said, glancing
at the innumerable envelopes, which she was
dropping as fast as might be into the narrow
receptacle. He could see that they where directed
in her small, clear, delicate hand-writing.

And you, too,^ she said, looking at his diminished
bundle. mine are Secularist circulars,
and yours, I suppose, are the other kind of
thing, but you see the same pillar eats them up
quite contentedly. The Post Office is beautifully
national, it sets a good example''

She spoke lightly, but there was a peculiar
tone in her voice which betrayed great weariness.
It made Brian look at her more attentively
than he had yet done — less from a
lovers point of view, more from a doctor's.
She was very pale. Though the running had
brought a faint colour to her cheeks, her
lips were white, her forehead almost deathly.
He knew that she had never really been well
since her mother's death, but the change
wrought within the last three weeks dismayed
him ; she was the mere shadow of her former
self.

This hot weather is trying you,' he said.

Something is she replied. ^ Work, or
weather, or worry, or the three combined.'

'Come ill and see my father said Brian, 'and
be idle for a little time ; you will be writing
more circulars if you go home.'

No, they are all done, and my examination
is over, and there is nothing special going on
just now ; I think that is why I feel so like
breaking down.'

After a little more persuasion, she consented

to go ill and see Mr. Osmond. The house
always had a peculiarly restful feeling, and the
mere thought of rest was a relief to her ; she
would have liked the wheels of life to stop fora
little while, and there was rest in the mere
change of atmosphere. On the doorstep Brian
encountered a patient, much to'his vexation ; so
he could only take Erica into the study, and go
in search of his father. He lingered, however,
just to tell him of his fears.

She looks perfectly worn out ; you must
find out what is wrong, father, and make her
promise to see some one.'

His tone betrayed such anxiety that his father
would not smile, although he was secretly
amused ost the task deputed to him. However,
clergyman as he was, he had a good deal of the
doctor about him, and he had seen so much of
sickness and disease, during his long years of
hard work among the poor, that he was after
all about as ready an observer and as good a
judge as Brian could have selected.

Erica leaning back in the great easy-chair,
which had been moved into summer quarters

beside the window, heard the slow soft step she
had learned to know so wells and before she
had time to get up, found her hand in Charles
Osmond's strong clasp.

How comfortable your chair is,' she said,
smiling; ' I believe I was nearly asleep.'

He looked at her attentively, but without
appearing to study her face in any way. She
was very pale, and there was an indefinable
look of pain in her eyes.

Any news of the examination T he asked,
sitting dov^^n opposite her.

'No, it is too soon yet she replied. ' I
thought I should have felt so anxious about it ;
but do you know, now that it is over I can't
make myself care a bit. If I have failed altogether,
I don't believe I shall mind very much.'

^ Too tired to care for anything V

Yes, I seem to have come to the end. T
wish I were a watch, and could run down and
rest for a few days and be wound up again.'

He smiled. ' What have you been doing with
yourself to get so tired?'

Oh, nothing particular; it has been rather a

long day. Let me see ! In the morning there
were two delegates from Rilchester who had to be
kept in a good temper till my father was ready
for them ; then there was father's bag to be packed,
and a rush to get him off in time for the
morning express to Longstaff. Then I went to
a lecture at South Kensington, and then by train
to Alternate Street to see Hazeldine's wife,
who is unconscionable enough to live at the top
of one of the model lodging-houses. Then she
told me of another of our people whose child is
ill, and they lived in another row of Compton
Buildings up a hundred more steps, which left
my back nearly broken. And the poor little
child was fearfully ill, and it is so dreadful to see
pain you can do nothing for ; it has made me
feel wretched ever since. Then, — let me think
oh, I got home and found Aunt Jean with a
heap of circulars to get off, and there was a
great rush to get them ready by post time.'

She paused, Charles Osmond withdrew his
eyes from the careful scrutiny of her face and
noticed the position she had taken up in his chair.
She was leaning back, but with her arms rest-vol.

I. Q

iDg on the arms of the chair ; not merely stretched
out upon them, but rather as if she used them
for support. His eyes wandered back again to
her face. After a short silence, he spoke.

*You have been feeling very tired lately,
you have had unaccountable pains flying about
all over you, but specially your back has felt,
as you just said, somewhat " broken." You
have generally noticed this when you have
been walking or bending over your desk writing
for the Idol-breaker'

She laughed.

Now, please don't turn into a clairvoyant ; I
shall begin to think you uncanny; and, besides,
it would be an argument for Tom when we
quarrel about you.'

Then my surmises are true V

Substitute first person singular for second
plural, and it might have come from my own
lips,' said Erica, smiling. ' But please stop ;
I'm afraid you will try to turn prophet next,
and I'm sure you will prophesy something
horrid.'

'It would need no very clear-sighted prophet

to] prophesy that you will have to let your
wheels run down for a little while.'

Do you mean that you think T shall die V
asked Erica, languidly. ' It wouldn't be at all
convenient just now; father couldn't spare me.
Do you know,' and her face brightened, ' he is
really beginning to use me a good deal !'

I didn't mean that I thought your wheels
would run down in that way said Charles
Osmond, touched by the pathos of her words.
I may even be wrong, but I think you will
want a long rest, and I am quite sure you
mustn't lose a day before seeing a doctor. I
should like ray brother to see you : Brian is only
junior partner, you know.'

What, another Mr Osmond I How muddled
we shall get between you all !' said Erica,
laughing.

*" I should think that Brian might be Brian
by this time,' said Charles Osmond, ' that will
dispose of one ; and perhaps you would like to
follow the example of one of my servants, who
I hear invariably speaks of me as " the dear
rev." '

Q ^

Erica laughed.

.' Nos I shall call you my " prophet," though
it is true you have begun by being a prophet of
evil ! By-the-by, you cannot say again that I
am Dot impartial. What do you think Tom and
I did last week V

'Read the New Testament backwards V

No, we went to a Holy Scripture Society
meeting at Exeter Hall.'

Hope you were edified,' said Charles Osmond,
with a little twinkle in his eye; but he
sighed, nevertheless.

Well,' said Erica, ' it was rather curious to
hear everything reversed, and there was a good
deal of fun altogether. They talked a great
deal about the numbers of bibles, testaments,
and portions which had been sent out ; there was
one man who spoke very broadly, and kept on
speaking of the ^'j:)o?'i^/o^i5," and there was another
whom we called the " Great Door," because
eight times in his speech he said that a great door
had been opened for them in Italy and other places.
Altogether, I thought them rather smug and
self-satisfied, especially one man whose face

shone on the slightest provocation, and who
remarked, in broad Lincolnshire, that they had
been '* Abundantly blessed'' After his speech
a little shorts sleek, oily man got np, and talked
about Providence. Apparently it had been
very kind to him, and he thought the other
sort of thing did best for those who got it.
But there were one or two really good
speakers, and I daresay they were all in earnest.
Still, you know, Tom and I felt rather
like fish out of water, and especially when they
began to sing, '^ Oh, Bible, blessed Bible V and
a lady would make me share her hymn-book.
Then, too, there was a collection, and the man
made quite a pause in front of us, and of course
we couldn't give anything. Altogether, I felt
rather horrid and hypocritical for being thereat
all.^

Is that your only experience of one of our
meetings V

Oh, no, father took me with him two or
three times to Westminster Abbey a good many
years ago ; we heard the dean, father admired
him very much. I like Westminster Abbey ! It

seems to belong a little to us, too, because it is
so national. And then it so beautiful, and I
liked hearing the music. I wonder though that
yoQ are not a little afraid of having it so much
in your worship ; I remember hearing a beautiful
anthem there once, which just thrilled one
all through. I wonder that you don't fear that
people should mistake that for what you call
spiritual fervour.'

I think perhaps there is a danger in any
undue introduction of externals, but anyone
whose spirit has ever been awakened will never
mistake the mere thrill of sensuous rapture for
the quickening of his spirit by the Unseen.'

You are talking riddles to me now !' said
Erica, ' but I feel sure that some of the people
who go to church regularly only like it because
of that appeal to the senses. I shall
never forget going one afternoon into Notre
Dame with Madame Lemercier. A flood of
crimson and purple light was shining in
through the south transept windows. You could
see the white-robed priests and choristers —
there was one boy with the most perfect voice

you can conceive. I don't know what they Avere
singing, something very sweet and mournful,
and, as that one voice rang up into the vaulted
roof, I saw Madame Lemercier fall down on her
knees and pray in a sort of rapture. Even I
myself felt the tears come to my eyes, just
because of the loveliness, and because the blood
in one's veins seemed to bound. And then, still
singing, the procession passed into the nave,
and the lovely voice grew more and more distant.
It was a wonderful effect; no doubt the
congregation thought they felt devout, but, if
so, then 1 too felt devout, — quite as religious as
they. Tour spiritual fervour seems to me to
resolve itself into artistic effect produced by an
appeal to the senses and emotions.'

And I must repeat my riddle said Charles
Osmond, quietly. ' No awakened spirit could
ever mistake the one for the other. It is impossible
! how impossible you will one day
realise.'

One evil prophecy is enough for to-day !'
said Erica, laughing. ' If I stay any longer, you
will be prophesying my acceptance of Christianity?

No, no, ray father will be grieved
enough if your first prediction comes true, but,
if I were to turn Christian, I think it would
break his heart !'

She rose to go, and Charles Osmond went
with her to the door, extracting a promise that
she would discuss things with her aunt, and if
she approved send for Mr. Osmond at once. He
watched her across the square, then turning
back into his study paced to and fro in deep
thought. Erica's words rang in his ears. 'If
I were to turn Christian, I think it would break
his heart !' How strangely this child was situated
! How almost impossible it seemed that
she could ever in this world come to the light.
And yet the difficulty might perhaps be no
hindrance to one so beautifully sincere, so ready
to endure anything and everything for the
sake. of what she now considered truth. She
had all her father's zeal and self-devotion ;
surely the offering up of self, even in a mistaken
cause, must sooner or later lead to .the
Originator of all self-sacrifice. Surely some of
those who seem only to thwart God, honestly

deeming Christianity a mischievous delusion,
are really acting more in His spirit, unconsciously
better doing His will than many who
openly declare themselves on His side !
Yet, as Charles Osmond mused over the past
lives of Luke Raeburn and his daughter, and
pictured their probable future, a great grief
filled his heart. They were both so loveable, so
noble ! that they should miss in a great measure
the best of life seemed such a grievous pity !
The chances that either of them would renounce
atheism were, he could not but feel, infinitesimally
small. Much smaller for the father than
for the child.

It was true, indeed, that she had never fairly
.grasped any real idea of the character of Christ.
He had once grasped it to a certain extent, and
had lost the reception of its beauty and truth.
It was true also that Erica's transparent sincerity,
her quick perception of the beautiful, might
help very greatly to overcome her deeply ingrained
prejudices. But even then what an agony
what a fearful struggle would lie before her.
I think it would break his heart !' Charles

Osmond felt his breath come fast and hard at
the mere thought of such a difference between
the father and daughter. Could human strength
possibly be equal to such a terrible trial? For
these two were everything to each other. Erica
worshipped her father, and Raeburn's fatherhood
was the truest, deepest, tenderest part of
his character. No, human strength could not
do it, but —

I am ; lyle ye dree !'

His eye fell on a little illuminated scroll
above his mantel-piece, WycliPs rendering of
Christ's reassuring word to the fearful disciples.
Yes, with the revelation of Himself, He would
give the strength, make it possible to dread
nothing, not even the infliction of grief to one's
nearest and dearest. Much pain, much sacrifice
there would be in His service, but dread — never 1
The strength of the ' I am,' bade it for ever
cease. In that strength the weakest could
conquer.

But he had wandered on into a dim future
had pictured a struggle which in all probability
would not take place. Even were that the

case, however, he needed these words of assurance
all the more himself. They wove themselves
into his reverie as he paced to and fro :
healed him further and further away from
perplexed surmises as to the future of Raeburn
and Erica, but closer to their souls, because
they took him straight to the ' God and Father
of all, who is above all, and through all, and
in all.'

The next morning, as he was preparing a
sermon for the following Sunday, there came a
knock at his study door. His brother came in.
He was a fine looking man of two or three and
fifty.

'I canst stay'' he said, ' I've a long round,
but I just looked in to tell you about your little
heretic'

Charles Osmond looked up anxiously.

It is as you thought,' continued his brother.
sight curvature of the spine. She's a brave
little thing ; I don't wonder you are interested
in her.'

It means a long rest, I suppose V

Yes, I told her a year in a recumbent posture

; for I fancy she is one of those restless
beings who will do nothing at all unless you
are pretty plain with them. It is possible that
six or eight months may be sufficient.'

How did she take it V

Oh, in the pluckiest way you can conceive !
Tried to laugh at the prospect, wanted me to
measure her to see how much she grew in the
time, said she should expect at least three
inches to reward her.'

*A Raeburn could hardly be deficient incourage.
Luke Hepburn is without exception
the bravest man I ever met.-*

And I'd back his daughter against any
woman I know,' said the doctor.

He left the room, but the news he had
brought caused a long pause in his brother's
sermon.

CHAPTER XII.

He is a man both loving and severe,
A tender heart, a will inflexible.

Longfellow.

Luke Raebuen bad been lecturing in one of
the large manufacturing towns. It was the
hottest part of a sultry day in June. He was
returning home, and sat in a broiling third-class
carriage reading a paper. Apparently what he
read was the reverse of gratifying, for there
was a look of annoyance on his usually serene
face ; he was displeased with the report of his
lecture given in the local papers, it was calculated
to mislead very greatly.

Other matters, too, were harassing him just

then, and he was, moreover, paying the penalty
of his two years' campaign, in which his almost
superhuman exertions and the privations he had
voluntarily endured had told severely upon his
health. Possessed of a singularly well-regulated
mind, and having in an unusual degree the
inestimable gift of common-sense, he nevertheless
often failed to use it in his personal affairs.
He had no idea of sparing himself, no idea of
husbanding his strength ; this was indeed
great, but he treated himself as if it were inexhaustible.
The months of trouble had turned
his hair quite white, he was now a more 
man than ever.

Not unfrequently he made friends with the
men with whom he travelled ; he was always
studying life from the working-man's point of
view, and there was such a charm in his genial
manner and ready sympathy that he invariably
succeeded in drawing people out. But on this
day he was not in the humour for it ; instead, he
thought over the abusive article and the mangled
report in the Longstaff Mercui'ij^ and debated
within himself whether it were worth an

action for libel. His love of fighting said yes,
his common-sense said no, and in the end commonsense
won the day, but left him doubly
depressed. He moved to the shady side of the
carriage and looked out of the window. He
was a great lover of Nature, and Nature was
looking her loveliest just then. The trees, in
all the freshness of early June, lifted their
foliage to the bluest of skies, the meadows
were golden with buttercups, the cattle grazed
peacefully, the hay-fields waved unmown in the
soft summer air, which, though sparing no
breath for the hot and dusty travellers, was yet
strong enough to sweep over the tall grasses
in long undulating waves that made them shimmer
in the sunlight.

Raeburn's face grew serene once more ; he
had a very quick perception of the beautiful.
Presently he retired again behind a newspaper,
this time the Daily Review and again his brow
grew stern, for there was bad news from the
seat of war ; he read the account of a great
battle, read the numbers of his slain countrymen,
and of those who had fallen on the

enemy's side. It was an unrighteous war, and
his heart burnt within him at the thought of
the inhuman havoc thus caused by a false ambition.
iVgain^ as if he were fated that day to
be confronted with the dark side of life, the
papers gave a long account of a discovery made
in some charity school where young children
had been hideously ill-treated. Raeburn, who
was the most fatherly of men, could hardly
restrain the expression of his righteous indignation.
All this mismanagement, this reckless
waste of life, this shameful cruelty, was
going on in what was called ' Free England.'
And here was he, a middle-aged man, and
time was passing on with frightful rapidity,
and, though he had never lost an opportunity of
lifting up his voice against oppression, how
little had he actually accomplished !

So many worlds, so much to do.
So little done, such things to be !'

That was the burden of the unuttered cry
which filled his whole being. That was the
point where his atheism often brought him to a
noble despair. But far from prompting him to

repeat the maxim — ' Let us eat and drink, for
tomorrow we die !' it spurred him on rather to a
sort of fiery energy never satisfied with what it
had accomplished. Neither the dissatisfaction,
however, nor even the despair ever made him
feel the need of any power above man. On the
contrary, the unaccountable mystery of pain
and evil was his strongest argument against
the existence of a God. Upon that rock he had
foundered as a mere boy, and no argument had
ever been able to convince him. Impatience
of present ill had in this, as in many other
cases, proved the bane of his life.

He would write and speak about, these cases
of injustice, he would hold them up to the
obloquy they so richly deserved.

Scathing sentences already took shape in his
brain, but deeper investigation would be necessary
before he could write anything. In the
meantime to cool himself, to bring himself into
a judicial frame of mind, he took a Hebrew book
from his bag, and spent the rest of the journey
in hard study.

Harassed, and tired, and out of spirits as he

VOL. I. R

was, be nevertheless felt a certain pleasurable
sensation as he left St. Pancreas, driving homeward
through the hot crowded streets. Erica
would be waiting for him at home, and he had
a comparatively leisure afternoon. There was
the meeting on the Opium Trade at eight, but
he might take her for a turn in one of the parks
beforehand. She had always been a companion
to him since her very babyhood, but now
he was able to enjoy her companionship even
more than in the olden times. Her keen intellect,
her ready sympathy, her eagerness to
learn, made her the perfection of a disciple,
while not unnaturally he delighted in tracing
the many similarities of character between himself
and his child. Then, too, in his hard, argumentative,
fighting life it was an unspeakable
relief to be able to retire every now and then
into a home which no outer storms could shake
or disturb. Fond as he was of his sister, Mrs.
Craigie, and Tom, they constituted rather the
innermost circle of his friends and followers ; it
was Erica who made the Home though the
others shared the house. It was to Erica's

pure childlike devotion that he invariably turned
for comfort.

Dismissing the cab at the corner of Guilford
Square, he walked down the dreary little passage,
looking up at the window to see if she
were watching for him as usual. But to-day
there Alas no expectant face ; he recollected,
however , that it was Thursday, always a busy
day with them.

He opened the door with his latch-key and
went in ; still there was no sound in the house ;
he half-paused for an instant, thinking that he
should certainly hear quick footsteps, the opening
of a door, some sign of welcome, but all
was as silent as death. Half angry with himself
for having grown so expectant of that
loving watch as to be seriously apprehensive
at its absence, he hastily put down his
bag and walked into the sitting-room, his
calm exterior belying a nameless fear at his
heart.

What the French call expressively a ' settlement
de cceur^ seized him when he saw that Erica
"was indeed at home, but that she was lying on

r2

the couch. She did not even spring up to
greet him.

Is anything the matter, dear ? Are you ill V
he asked, hurriedly crossing the little room.

Oh, have yon not seen Aunt Jean ? she was
going to meet you at St. Pancreas,' said Erica,
her heart failing her a little at the prospect of
telling her own bad news. But the exceeding
anxiety of her father's face helped her to rise
to the occasion. She laughed, and the laugh
was natural enough to reassure him.

It is nothing so very dreadful, and all this
time you have never even given me a kiss,
father.' She drew down the grand-looking
white head, and pressed her fair face to his.
He sat down beside her.

Tell me, dear, what is wrong with you he
repeated.

Well, I felt rather out of order, and they
said I ought to see some one, and it seems that
my tiresome spine is getting crooked, and the
long and the short of it is that Mr. Doctor Osmond
says I shall get quite well again if I'm
careful ; but' — she added, lightly, yet with the

gentleness of one who thinks merely of the
hearer's point of view, — ' I shall have to be a
passive verb for a year, and you will have to be
my " Very strong man, Kwasind." '

A year !' he exclaimed, in dismay.

^ Brian half gave me hope that it might not
be so long,' SEiid Erica ' if I'm very good and
careful, and of course I shall be both. I am
only sorry because it will make me very useless.
I did hope I should never have been a
burden on you again, father.'

Don't talk of such a thing, my little son
Eric,' he said, very tenderly. ' Who should
take care of you if not your own father. Besides,
if you never wrote another line for me
you would help me by just being yourself. A
burden !'

Well, I've made you look as grave as half-a-dozen
law-suits!' said Erica, pretending to
stroke the lines of care from his forehead. * I've
had the morning to ruminate over the prospect,
and really, now that you know, it is not so very
dreadful. A year will soon pass.'

I look to you, Eric,' said her father. 'To

show the world that we Secularists know how
to bear pain. You won't waste the year, if you
can do it.'

Her face lighted up.

It was like you to think of that !' she said,
that would indeed be worth doing.'

Still, do what she would, Erica could not talk
him back to cheerfulness. He was terribly distressed
at her news, and more so when he
found that she was suffering a good deal. He
thought with a pang of the difference of the
reality to his expectations. No walk for them
in the park that evening, nor probably for
many years to come ! Yet he was ignorant of
these matters, perhaps he exaggerated the
danger or the duration ; he would go across
and see Brian Osmond at once !

Left once more to herself, the colour died out
of Erica's cheeks; she lay there pale and still,
but her face was almost rigid with resoluteness

I am not going to give way !' she thought
to herself. 'I won't shed a single tear. Tears
are wasteful luxuries, bad for body and mind.
And yet — yet — oh, it is hard, just when I wanted

to help father most I Just when I wanted
to keep him from being worried ! And a whole
year ! How shall I bear it, when even six
hours has seemed half a life-time I This is
what Thekla would call a cross, but I only call
it my horrid, stupid, idiotic old spine ! Well, I
must try to show them that Luke Eaeburn's
daughter knows how to bear pain : I must be
patient , however much I boil over in private.
Yet is it honest, I wonder, to keep a patient
outside, while inside you are all one big grumbles
Rather Pharisaical — outside of the cup and
platter ; but it is all 1 shall be able to do, I'm
sure. That is where Mr. Osmond's Christianity
would come in ; I do believe that goes right
through his life, privates thoughts and all.
Odd, that a delusion should have such power,
and over such a man ! There is Sir Michael
Cunningham, too, one of the greatest and best
men in England, yet a Christian ! Great intellects
and much study, and still they remain
Christians — 'tis extraordinary. But a Christian
would have the advantage over me in a case
like this. First of all, I suppose, they would

feel that they could serve their God as well on
their backs as upright, while all the help I shall
be able to give the cause is dreadfully indirect
and problematical. Then certainly they would
feel that they might be getting ready for the
next World where all wrong is, they believe, to
be set right, while I am only terribly hindered
in getting ready for this world, — a whole year
without the chance of a lecture ! And then they
have all kinds of nice theories about pain, discipline,
and that sort of thing, which no doubt
make it more bearable, while to me it is just
the one unmitigated evil. But oh ! they don't
know what pain means ! for there is no death to
them — no endless separation. What a delusion
it is ! they ought to be happy enough. Oh,
mother ! mother !'

After all, what she really dreaded in her enforced
pause was the leisure for thought. She
had plunged into work of all kinds, had half
killed herself with work, had tried to hold her
despair at arms' length. But now there was no
help for it. She must rest, and the thoughts
must come.

CHAPTER Xii

LOSING ONE FRIEND TO GAIN ANOTHER.

For toleration had its griefs,
And charity its trial.

Whittier.

Wells Osmond, you got into hot water a few
years ago fpr defending Raeburn in public, and
by this tinge you will find it not merely hot, but
up to boiling point. The fellow is more notorious
than ever.'

The speaker was one of Charles Osmond's
college friends, a certain Mr. Roberts, who had
been abroad for a good many years, but, having
returned on account of his health, had for a few
months been acting as curate to his friend.

A man who works as indefatigably as Mr.
Raeburn has done can hardly avoid being noticed,'
replied Charles Osmond.

You speak as if you admired the fellow !'

There is a great deal to admire in Mr.
Raeburu. However greatly mistaken he is,
there is no doubt that he is a brave man, and
an honest.'

You can speak in such a way of a man who
makes his living by speaking and writing
against God !'

I hope I can speak the truth of every man,
whether his creed agrees with mine or not.'

A man who grows rich on blasphemy ! who
sows poison among the people and reaps the
harvest I* exclaimed Mr. Roberts.

That he teaches fearful error, I quite allow,'
said Charles Osmond, ' but it is the grossest injustice
to say that he does it for gain. His
atheism brought him to the very brink of starvation
some years ago. Even now, he is so
crippled by the endless litigation he has had
that he lives in absolute penury.'

*But that letter you sent to the Church
Chronicle was so uncalled for, you put the comparison
so broadly.'

I put it in plain English,' said Charles

Osmond, 'I merely said, as I think, that he puts
many of us to shame by his great devotion.
The letter was a reply to a very unfair article
about the Winchester riot; it was absolutely necessary
that some one should speak. I tell you,
Roberts, if you knew the man, you could not
speak so bitterly of him. It is not true that he
leads a selfish, easy-going life ; he has spent
thousands and thousands of pounds in the
defence of his cause. I don't believe there is
a man in England who has led a more self-denying
life. It may be very uncomfortable
news for us, but we've no right to
shut onr ears to it. I wish that man could
stir up an honest sense of shame in every
sleepy Christian in the country. I believe
that, indeed, to be his rightful mission. Raeburn
is a grand text for a sermon which
the nation sorely needs. " Here is a man who
spends his whole strength in propagating his
so-called gospel of atheism. Do you spend
your whole strength in spreading the gospel of
Christ ? Here is a man, willing to leave his
home, willing to live without one single luxury,

denying himself all that is not necessary to
actual health. Have you ever denied yourself
anything? Here is a man who spends his
"whole living — all that he has — on what he believes
to be the truth. What meagre tithe do
you bestow upon the religion of which you
speak so much ? Here is a man who dares to
stand up alone in defence of what he holds true,
a man who never flinches. How far are you
brave in the defence of your faith? Do you
never keep a prudent silence ? Do you never
hoAvlwith the wolves ?'' '

Thank heaven you are not in the pulpit !'
ejaculated Mr. Roberts.

I wish those words could be sent through
the length and breadth of the land,' said Charles
Osmond.

'No doubt Mr. Raeburn would thank you,'
said his friend with a sharp-edged smile. ' It
would be a nice little advertisement for him.
Why, from a Church of England parson it would
make his fortune! My dear Osmond, you are
the best fellow in the world, but don't you see
that you are playing into the enemy's hands.'

'I am trying to speak the words that God
has given nie to speak,' said Charles Osmond.
'The result I can well trust to Him. An uncomfortable
truth will never be popular. The
words of our Lord Himself were not popular ;
but they sank into men's hearts and bore fruit,
though He was put to death as a blasphemer
and a revolutionary

Well, at least then, if you must take up the
cudgels in his defence, do not dishonour the
clerical profession by personal acquaintance
with the man. I hear that he has been seen
actually in your house , that you are even intimate
with his family.'

Roberts, I didn't think our beliefs were so
very different, in fact, I used to think we were
nearer to each other on these points than most
men. Surely we both own the universal Fatherhood
of God ?'

'Of course, of course,' said Mr. Roberts, quickly.

'And owning that, we cannot help owning
the universal brotherhood of men. Why should
you then cut yourself off from your brother,
Luke Raeburn V

'He's no brother of mine !' said Mr. Roberts,
in a tone of disgust.

Charles Osmond smiled.

We do not choose our brothers, we have no
voice in the growth of the family. There they
are.'

But the man says there is no God !'
Excuse me, he has never said that. What
he says is, that the word God conveys no
meaning to him. If sou think that the best way
to show your belief in the All-father and your
love to all His children lies in refusing so much
as to touch those who don't know Him, you
are of course justified in shunning every atheist
or agnostic in the world. But I do not think
that the best way. It was not Christ's yvety.
Therefore I hail every possible opportunity of
meeting Mr. Raeburn or his colleagues, try to
find all the points we have in common, try as
far as possible to meet them on their own
ground.'

And the result will be that people will
call you an atheist yourself I' broke in Mr.
Roberts.

That would not greatly matter,' said Charles
Osmond. ' It would be a mere sting for the
moment. It is not what men call us that we
have to consider, but how we are fulfilling the
work God has given us to do.'

'upon my life, it makes me feel sick to hear
you talk like this about that miserable Raeburn
!' exclaimed Mr. Roberts hotly. ^ I tell
you, Osmond, that you are ruining your reputation,
losing all chance of preferment, just
because of this mistaken zeal. It makes me
furious to think that such a man as you should
suffer for such a creature as Raeburn.'

Have you forgotten that such creatures as
you and I and Luke Eaeburn had such a Saviour
as Jesus Christ? Come, Roberts, in your
heart you know you agree with me. If one
is indeed our Father, then indeed we are all
brethren.'

'I do not hold with you!' retorted Mr. Roberts,
the more angrily because he had really
hoped to convince his friend. ' I wouldn't sit
in the same room with the fellow, if you offered
me the richest living in England ! I wouldn't

shake hands with him to be made an archbishop
! I wouldn't touch him with a pair of
tongs !'

Even less charitable than St. Dunstan to
the devil,' said Charles Osmond, smiling a little
but sadly. ' Except in that old legend, however,
I don't think Christianity ever mentions
tongs. If you can't love your enemies, and
pray for them, and hold out a brotherly hand to
them, perhaps it were indeed better to hold
aloof and keep as quiet as you can.'

It is clearly impossible for us to work together
any longer, Osmond,' said Mr. Roberts, rising.
I am sorry that such a cause should separate
us, but if you will persist in visiting an outcast
of society, a professed atheist, the most bitter
enemy of our church, I cannot allow my name to
be associated with yours, — it is impossible that
I should hold office under you.'

So the two friends parted.

Charles Osmond was human, and almost
inevitably a sort of reaction began in his mind
the instant he was alone. He had lost one of
his best friends he knew as well as possible

that they could never be on the same footing as
before. He had, moreover, lost in him a valuable
co-worker. Then , too, it was true enough
that his defence of Raeburn was bringing him
into great disfavour with the religious world,
and he was a sensitive and naturally a proud
man, who found blame , and reproach and contemptuous
disapproval very hard to bear. Years
of hard fighting, years of patient imitation of
Christ, had wonderfully ennobled him ; but he
had not yet attained to the sublime humility
which, being free from all thought of self,
cares nothing, scarcely even pauses to think
of the world's judgment, too absorbed in
the work of the Highest to have leisure
for thought of the lowest, too full of love
for the race to have love to spare for self.
To this ideal he was struggling, but he had
not yet reached it, and the thought of his own
reputation, his own feelings, would creep in
He was not a selfishly ambitious man, but everyone
Who is conscious of ability, everyone who
feels within him energies lying fallow for want
of opportunity, must be ambitious for a larger
VOL. I. S

sphere of work. Just as he was beginning to
dare to allow himself the hope of some change
in his work, some wider field, just as he was
growing sure enough of himself to dare to accept
any greater work which might have been
offered him, he must, by bringing himself into
evil repute, lose every chance of preferment.
And for what? For attempting to obtain a just
judgment for the enemy of his faith ; for holding
out a brotherly hand to a man who might
very probably not care to take it ; for consorting
with those who would at best regard him
as an amiable fanatic. Was this worth all
it would cost? Could the exceedingly problematical
gain make up for the absolutely certain
loss?

He took up the day's newspaper. His eye
was at once attracted to a paragraph headed,
Mr. Raeburn at Longstaff.' The report, sent
from the same source as the report in the
Longstaff Mercury which had so greatly displeased
Raeburn that morning, struck Charles
Osmond in a most unfavourable light. This
bitter opponent of Christianity, this unsparing

denouncer of all that be held most sacred, this
was the man for whom he was sacrificing friendship,
reputation, advancement. A feeling of
absolute disgust rose within him. For a moment
the thought came, ' I can't have any more
to do with the man.'

But he was too honest not to detect almost
at once his own Pharisaical, un-Christlike
spirit.

'Look not every man on his own things, but
every man also on the things of others. Let
this mind be in you which was also in Christ
Jesus.'

He , had been selfishly consulting his own
happiness, his own ease. Worse still, he, of all
men in the world, had dared to set himself upas
too virtuous forsooth to have anything to do
with an atheist. Was that the mind which was
in Christ ? Was He a strait-laced, self-righteous
Pharisee, too good, too religious to have anything
to say to those who disagreed with Him ?
Did He not live and die for those who were yet
enemies to God? Was not the work of reconciliation
the work He came for? Did He calculi



late the loss to Himself, the risk of failure ?
Ah, no, those who would imitate God must first
give as a free gift, without thought of self, perfect
love to all, perfect justice through that love,
or else they are not like the Father who ' maketh
His sun to shine on the evil and the good,
and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.'

Charles Osmond paced to and fro, the look
of trouble gradually passing from his face.
Presently he paused beside the open window ;
it looked upon the little back garden , a tiny
strip of ground indeed, but just now bright
with sunshine and fresh with the beauty of early
summer. The sunshine seemed to steal into
his heart as he prayed.

All-father, drive out my selfish cowardice,
my self-righteous conceit. Give me Thy spirit of
perfect love to all, give me Thy pure hatred of
sin. Melt ray coldness with Thy burning charity,
and if it be possible make me fit to be Luke
Raeburn's friend.'

While he still stood by the window a visitor
was announced. He had been too much
absorbed to catch the name, but it seemed the

most natural thing that on turning round
he should find himself face to face with the prophet
af atheism.

There he stood, a splendid specimen of humanity
; every line in his rugged Scottish face
bespoke a character of extraordinary force, but
the eyes which in public Charles Osmond had seen
flashing with the fire of the man's enthusiasm, or
gleaming with a cold metallic light which indicated
exactly his steely endurance of ill-treatment,
were now softened and deepened b}^ sadness.
His heart went out to him. Already he
loved the man, only hitherto the world's opinion
had crept into his heart between each meeting,
and had paralysed the free God-like love.
But it was to do so no longer. That afternoon
he had dealt it a final blow, there was no more
any room for it to rear its fair-speaking form,
no longer should its veiled selfishness, its so-called
virtuous indignation turn him into a
Pharisaical judge.

He received him with a hand-shake which
conveyed to Raeburn much of the warmth, the
reality, the friendliness of the man. He had

always liked Charles Osmond, but he had generally
met him either in public, or when he was
harassed and pre-occupied. Now, when he was
at leisure, when, too, he was in great trouble, he
instinctively perceived that Osmond had in a
rare degree the broad-hearted sympathy which
he was just now in need of. From that minute
a life-long friendship sprang up between the
two men.

I came really to see your son,' said Raeburn,
but they tell me he is out. I want to know
the whole truth about Erica.'

It was not his way to speak very much where
he felt deeply, but Charles Osmond could detect
all the deep anxiety, the half-indulged hope
which lay hidden behind the strong reserved
exterior. He had heard enough of the case to
be able to satisfy him, to assure him that there
was no danger, that all must be left to time
and patience and careful observance of the
doctor's regulations. Raeburn sighed with
relief at the repeated assurance that there was
no danger, that recovery was only a question
of time. Death had so recently visited his

home that a grisly fear bad taken possession of
his heart. Once free of that, he could speak
almost cheerfully of the lesser evil.

It will be a great trial to her, such absolute
imprisonment ; she is never happy unless she
is hard at work. But she is brave and strong-willed.
AVill you look in and see her when you
can?'

'Certainly,' said Charles Osmond. ' We
must do our best to keep up her spirits.'

Yes, luckily she is a great reader, otherwise
such a long rest would be intolerable, I
should fancy.'

You do not object to my coming to see her V
said Charles Osmond, looking full into his companion's
eyes. ' You know that we discuss
religious questions pretty freely.'

'Religious questions always are freely discussed
in my house,' said Raeburn. sit will bethe
greatest advantage to her to have to turn
things well over in her mind. Besides, we
always make a point of studying our adversaries'
case even more closely than our
own, and, if she has a chance of doing it personally

as well as through books, all the better.'
But supposing that such an unlikely thing-were
to happen as that she should see reason
to change her present views ? Supposing, it
you can suppose anything so unlikely, she
should ever in future years come to believe in
Christianity V

Raeburn smiled, not quite pleasantly.
It is as you say such a very remote contingency
!' He paused, grew grave, then continued
with all his native nobility : ' Yet I like
you the better for having brought forward such
an idea, improbable as I hope it may be considered.
I feel very sure of Erica. She has
thought a great deal, she has had every possible
advantage. We never teach on authority ;
she has been left perfectly free and has learned
to weigh evidences and probabilities, not to be
led astray by any emotional fancies but to be
guided by reason. She has always heard both
sides of the case ; she has lived as it were in an
atmosphere of debate, and has been, and of course
always will be, quite free to form her own
opinion on every subject. It is not for nothing

that we call ourselves Freethinkers. Absolute
freedom of thought and speech is part of our
creed. So far from objecting to your holding-free
discussions with my daughter I shall be
positively grateful to you, and particularly just
now. I fancy Erica has inherited enough of
ney nature to enjoy nothing better than a little
opposition.'

I know you are a born fighter said Charles
Osmond. ' We sympathise with each other in
that. And, next to the bliss of a hard-won
victory, I place the satisfaction of being well
conquered.'

Raeburn laughed.

I am glad we think alike there. People are
very fond of describing me as a big bull-dog,
but if they would think a little they would see
that the love of overcoming obstacles is deeply
rooted in the heart of every true man. What
is the meaning of our English love of field
sports ? What the explanation of the mania
for Alpine climbing ? It is no despicable
craving for distinction, it is the innate love of
fighting, struggling, and conquering.'

Well, there are many obstacles which we
can struggle to remove side by side said
Charles Osmond. ' We should be like one man,
I fancy, on the question of the opium trade, for
instance.'

In a few vigorous words Raeburn denounced
this monstrous national sin.

'Are you going to the meeting to-night?' he
added, after a pause.

^ Yes, I had thought of it. • Let us go together.
Shall you speak?'

Not to-night,' said Raeburn, a smile flickering
about his usually stern lips. ' The Right Reverend
Father, &c., &c., who is to occupy the
chair, might object to announcing that ^' Mr
Raeburn would now address the meetings' No,
this is not the time or place for me. So prejudiced
are people that the mere connection of
my name with the question would probably do
more harm than good. 1 should like, I confess,
to get up without introduction, to speak not
from the platform but from among the audience
incognito. But that is impossible for a man
who has the misfortune to be five inches above

the average height, and whose white hair has
become a proverb, since some one made the
unfortunate remark, repeated in a hundred
newspapers, that the " hoary head was only
a crown of glory when found in the way of
righteousness." '

Charles Osmond could not help laughing.

The worst of these newspaper days is that
one never can make an end of anything. That
remark has been made to me since at several
meetings. At the last, I told the speaker that
I was so tired of comments on my personal
appearance that I should soon have to resort
either to the dyer or the wig-maker. Bat here
am I wasting your time and my own, and forgetting
the poor little maid at home. Goodbye.
I'll call in passing, then, at a quarter to
eight. Tom Craigie will probably be with me,
he is very rabid on the subject.'

'Craigie and I are quite old friends,' said
Charles Osmond.

And then, as on the preceding night he
had stood at the door while Erica crossed the
square, so now involuntarily his eyes followed

Raebin-D. In his very \valk the character ot
the man was indicated : — firm, steady, imperturbable,
straight-forward.

CHAPTER XIV.

CHARLES Esmond SPEAKS HIS MIND.

Fiat justitia rust coelum.

Proverb,

Justice, — the miracle worker amongst men.

John Bright (July 14, 1868.)

I THOUGHT you were never coming to seeme,'
said Erica, putting down a newspaper and
looking up with eager welcome at Charles
Osmond, who had just been announced.

It has not been for want of will,' he replied,
sitting down near her couch, 'but I have
been overwhelmed with work the last few days.
How are you getting on "? I am glad you don't
altogether refuse to see your prophet of evil.'

It would have been worse if you hadn't
spoken,' she said, in the tone of one trying*

bard to make the best of things. ^ I was rather
rash though to say that I should Hke my wheels
to ruu down ; I didn't know how terrible it is
to be still. One does so grudge all the lost
times

But you will not let this be lost time — you
will read.'

Oh, yes, happily I can do that. And Mrs.
McNaughton is going to give me physiology
lessons, and dear old Professor Gosse has promised
to come and teach me whenever he can.
He is so devoted to father, you know, I think
be would do anything for me just because I am
bis child. It is a comfort that father has so
many real good friends. What I do so thoroughly
bate is the thought of having to be a
passive verb for so long. You've no idea how
aggravating it is to lie here and listen to all
that is going on, to hear of great meetings and
not to be able to go, to hear of work to be done
and not to be able to do it. And I suppose
one notices little things more when one is ill,
for just to lie still and watch our clumsy little
servant lay the table for dinner, clattering

down the knives and forks and tossing down
the plates makes me actually cross ! And then
they let the room get so untidy ; just look at
that stack of books for reviewing, and that chaos
of papers in the corner ! If I could but get up
for just five minutes, I shouldn't mind.'

poor child,' said Charles Osmond, 'this
comes very hard on you

I know I'm grumbling dreadfully, but if you
knew how horrid it is to be cut off from everything
! And, of course, it happens that another
controversy is beginning about that Longstaff
report. I have been reading half-a-dozen of today's
newspapers, and each one is worse than
the last. Look here ! Just read that, and try to
imagine it's your father they are slandering !
Oh, if I could but get up for one minute and
stamp I'

'And is this untrue?' asked Charles Osmond,
when he had finished the account in question.

There is just enough truth in it to make it
worse than a direct lie,' said Erica, hotly.
'They have quoted his own words, but in a
sense in which he never meant them, or they

have quite disregarded the context. If 3'ou will
give me those books on the table I'll just show
you how they have misrepresented him by
hacking out single sentences, and twisting and
distorting all he says in public'

Charles Osmond looked at the passages referred
to. and saw that Erica had not complained
without reason.

Yes, that is very impair — shamefully unfair,'
he said. Then, after a pause, he added abruptly,
^ Erica, are you good at languages V

I am very fond of them,' she said, surprised
at the sudden turn he had given to the
conversation.

Supposing that Mr. Raeburn's speeches and
doings were a good deal spoken of in Europe,
as no doubt they are, and that a long time after
his death one of his successors made some converts
to secularism in Italy, and wrote in Italian
all that he could remember of the life and words
of his late teacher. Then suppose that the
Italian life of Raeburn was translated into
Chinese, and that hundreds of years after, a
Heathen Chinee sat down to read it. His

Oriental mind found it hard to understand Mr.
Raeburn's thoroughly Western mind ; he didn't
see anything noble in Mr. Raeburn's character,
couldn't understand his mode of thought, read
through the life, perhaps studied it after a
fashion, or believed he did ; then shut it up, and
said there might possibly have been such a man,
but the proofs were very weak, and, even if he
had lived, he didn't think he was any great
shakes, though the people did make such a
fuss about him. Would you call that Heathen
Chinee fair?'

Erica could not help smiling, though she saw
what he was driving at.

But Charles Osmond felt much too keenly to
continue in such a light strain. He was no
weak-minded, pleasant conversationalist, but a
prophet, who knew how to speak hard truths
sometimes.

Erica,' he said, almost sternly, ' you talk
much about those who quote your father's
words unfairly ; but have you never misquoted
the words of Christ ? You deny Him and disbelieve
in Him, yet you have never really studied
VOL. I. T

His life. You have read the New Testament
through a veil of prejudice. Mind, I am not
saying one word in defence of those so-called
Christians who treat you unfairly or uncharitably
; but I do say that, as far as I can see, you
are quite as unfair to Christ as they are to your
father. Of course, you may reply that Jesus of
Nazareth lived nearly nineteen hundred years
ago, and that your father is still living: that
you have many difficulties and doubts to combat,
while our bigots can verify every fact or
quotation with regard to Mr. Raeburn with perfect
ease and certainty. That is true enough.
But the difficulties, if honestly faced, might be
surmounted. You don't honestly face them ;
you say to yourself, *' I have gone into all these
matters carefully, and now I have finally made
up my mind ; there is an end of the matter !"
You are naturally prejudiced against Christ ;
every day your prejudices will deepen unless
you strike out resolutely for yourself as a,
truth-seeker, as one who insists on always
considering all sides of the question. At
present you are absolutely unfair, you will not

take the trouble to study the life of Christ.'
Few people like to be told of their faults.
Erica could just endure it from her father, but
froid no one else. She was, besides, too young-yet
to have learnt even the meaning of the
word humility. Had Charles Osmond been a
few years younger, she would not even have
listened to him. As it was, he was a repaired
man, whom she loved and revered; he
was, moreover, a guest. She was very angry
with him, but she restrained her anger.

He had watched her attentively while he spoke.
She had at first only been surprised; then her
anger had been kindled, and she gave him one
swift flash from eyes which looked like live
coals. Then she turned her face away from
him so that he could only see one crimson
cheek. There was a pause after he had said his
say. Presently, with a great effort, Erica faced
him once more, and, in a manner which would
have been dignified had it not been a trifle too
frigid, made some casual remark upon a different
subject. He saw that to stay longer was mere
waste of time.

t2

Ashen the door had closed behind him, Erica's
anger blazed up once more. That he should
have dared to accuse her of unfairness ! That
he should have dared actually to rebuke her I
If he had given her a good shaking, she could
not have felt more hurt and ruffled. And then
to choose this day of all others, just when life
was so hard to her, just when she was condemned
to a long imprisonment. It was simply
brutal of him ! If anyone had told her that he
would do such a things she would not have believed
them. He had said nothing of the sort
to her before, though they had known each
other so long ; but, now that she was ill and
helpless and unable to get away from him, he
had seen fit to come and lecture her. Well, he
was a parson ! she might have known that
sooner or later the horrid, tyrannical, priestly
side of him would show ! And yet she had
liked him so much, trusted him so much ! It
was indescribably bitter to think that he was
no longer the hero she had thought him to be.
That, after all, he was not a grand, noble, self-denying
man, but a fault-finding priest !

She spent the rest of the afternoon in alternate
wrath and grief. In the evening Aunt
Jean read her a somewhat dry book which required
all her attention, and, consequently, her
anger cooled for want of thoughts to stimulate
it. Her father did not come in till late; but, ashe
carried her upstairs to bed she told him of
Charles Osmond's interview.

I told him you liked a little opposition,' was
his reply.

I don't know about opposition, but I didn't
like him, he showed this priestly side.'

I am sorry,' replied Raeburn. ' For my part
I genuinely like the man ; he seems to me a
grand fellow, and I should have said not in the
least spoilt by his Christianity, for he is neither
exclusive, nor narrow-minded,, nor opposed to
progress. Infatuated on one point, of course,
but a thorough man in spite of it.'

Left once more alone in her little attic-room.
Erica began to think over things more quietly.
So her father had told him that she liked opposition,
and he had doled out to her a rebuke
which was absolutely unanswerable ! But why

unanswerable ? She had been too angry to
reply at the time. It was one of the few maxims
her father had given her, ' When you are angry
be very slow to speak.' But she might write
an answer, a nice, cold, cutting answer, respectful,
of course but very frigid. She would
clearly demonstrate to him that she was perfectly
fair, and that he, her accuser, was unfair.

And then, quite quietly, she began to turnover
the accusations in her mind. Quoting the
words of Christ without regard to the context,
twisting their meaning. Neglecting real study
of Christ's character and life. Seeing all through
a veil of prejudice.

She would begin like her father with a
definition of terms. What did he mean
by study ? What did she mean by study ?
Well, such searching analysis, for instance, as
she had applied to the character of Hamlet,
when she had had to get up one of Shakespeare's
plays for her examination. She had worked
very hard at that, had really taken every one of
his speeches and soliloquies, and had tried to
gather his true character from them as well as
from his actions.

At this point she wandered away from the
subject a little, and began to wonder when she
should hear the result of the examination, and
to hope that she might get a first. By-and-by
she came to herself with a sudden and very uncomfortable
shock. If the sort of work she had
given to Hamlet was study, had she ever studied
the character of Christ ?

She had all her life heard what her father had
to say against Him, and what a good many well-meaning,
but not very convincing, people had
to say for Him. She had heard a few sermons
and several lectures on various subjects connected
with Christ's religion. She had read many
books both for and against Him. She had read
the New Testament. But could she quite honestly
say that she had studied the character of
Christ? Had she not been predisposed to think
her father in the right ? He would not at all
approve of that. Had she been a true Freethinker?
Had she not taken a good deal to be
truth because he said it ? If so, she was not a
bit more fair than the majority of Christians who
never took the trouble to go into things for

themselves, and study things from the point of
view of an outsider.

In the silence and darkness of her little
room, she began to suspect a good many unpleasant
and hitherto unknown facts about
herself.

'After all, I do believe that Mr. Osmond was
light,' she confessed at length. ' 1 am glad to
get back my belief in him ; but I've come to a
horrid bit of lath and plaster in myself where I
thought it was all good stone.'

She fell asleep and dreamt of the Heathen
Chinee reading the translation of the translation
of her father's words, and disbelieving altogether
in ' that invented demagogue, Luke Raeburn.'

The next day, Charles Osmond, sitting at
work in his study, and feeling more depressed
and hopeless than he would have cared to own
even to himself, was roused by the arrival of a
little three-cornered note. It ran as follows : —

Dear Mr. Osmond,

You made me very ang).'y yesterday,
and sad, too, for of course it was a case of "Et tu.

Brute." But last night I came to the unpleasant
conclusion that you were quite right, and that
I was quite wrong. To prove to you that I am
no longer angry, I am going to ask you a
great favour. Will you teach me Greek?
Your parable of the Heathen Chinee has set mo
thinking.

Yours very sincerely,

Erica Auburn.'

Charles Osmond felt the tears come to his
eyes. The straightforward simplicity of the
letter, the candid avowal of having been ' quite
wrong an avowal not easy for one of Erica's
character to make touched him inexpressibly.
Taking a Greek grammar from his bookshelves,
he set off at once for Guilford Terrace.

He found Erica looking very white and
fragile, and with lines of suffering about her
mouth ; but, though physically weary, her mind
seemed as vigorous as ever. She received him
with her usual frankness, and with more animation
in her look than he had seen for some weeks.

I did think you perfectly horrid yesterday !'

she exclaimed. * And was miserable, besides, at
the prospect of losing one of my heroes. You
can be very severe.'

'The infliction of pain is only justified when
the inflictor is certain, or as nearly certain as he
can be, that the pain will be productive of good,'
said Charles Osmond.

I suppose that is the way you account
for the origin of evil,' said Erica, thoughtfully.

Yes,' replied Charles Osmond, pleased that
she should have thought of the subject, ' that tome
seems the only possible explanation, otherwise
God would be either not perfectly good or
not omnipotent. His all-wisdom enables Him
to over-rule that pain which He has willed to
be the necessary outcome of infractions of His
order. Pain, you see, is made into a means of
helping us to find out where that order has
been broken, and so teaching us to obey it in
the long run.'

'But if there is an all-powerful God, wouldn't
it have been much better if He had made it impossible
for us to go wrong V

It would have saved much trouble, undoubtedly

; but do you thick that which costs
us least trouble is generally the most worth
having? I know a noble fellow who has
fought his way upward through sins and
temptations — you would like him, by the way,
for he was once an atheist. He is, by virtue of
all he has passed through, all he has overcome y
one of the finest men I have ever known.'

That is the friend, I suppose, whom your
son mentioned to me. But I don't see your
argument, for if there were an all-powerful
God He could have caused the man you speak
of to be as noble and good without passing-through
pain and temptation.'

*But God does not work arbitrarily, but bylaws
of progression. Nor does His omnipotence
include the working of contradictions. He cannot
both cause a thing to be and not to be at
the same time. H' it is a law that that which
has grown by struggle and effort shall be most
noble, God will not arbitrarily reverse that law
or truth because the creation of sinless beings
would involve less trouble.'

It all seems to me so unreal !' exclaimed

rODViv/: Ts^x-^J-

I

Erica. ' It seems like talking of this air !'

'I expect it does said Charles Osmond,
trying to realise to himself her position.

There was a silence.

How did this man of whom you speak
come to desert our side T asked Erica. ' I suppose,
as you say he was one of the finest men
you ever knew, he must, at least, have had a
great intellect. How did he begin to think all
these unlikely', unreal things true T

'- Donovan began by seeing the grandeur of the
character of Christ. He followed His example
for many years, calling himself all the time an
atheist ; at last he realised that in Christ we seethe
Father.'

I am sorry we lost him if he was such a
Dice man,' was Erica's sole comment. Then
turning her beautiful eyes on Charles Osmond
she said, * I hope my note did not convey
to you more than 1 intended. I asked you
if you would teach me Greek, and I mean to
try to study the character of Christ ; but, quite
to speak the truth, I don't really want to, I only
do it because I see I have not been fair.'

You do it for the sake of being a true truth-seeker,
the best possible reason.'

I thought you would think I was going todo
it because I hoped to get something. I
thought one of your strong points was that people
must come in a state of need and expecting
to be satisfied. 1 don't expect anything. I am
only doing it for the sake of honesty and thoroughness.
I don't expect any good at all.'

Is it likely that you can expect when you
know so little what is there ? What can you
bring better than a perfectly honest mind to
the search ? Erica , if I hadnH known that you
were absolutely sincere, I should not have dared
to give you the pain I gave you yesterday. Tt
was my trust in your perfect sincerity which
brought you that strong accusation. Even
then it Alas a sore piece of work.'

Did you mind it a little V exclaimed Erica.
But, directly she had spoken, she'felt that the
question was absurd, for she saw a look in
Charles Osmond's eyes that made the word
little' a mockery.

*What makes that man so loving?' she

thought to herself. ' He reminded me almost
of father, yet I am no child of his, I am
opposed to all that he teaches. I have spoken
my mind out to him in a way which must
sometimes have pained him. Yet he cares
for me so much that it pained him exceedingly
to give me pain yesterday !'

His character puzzled her. The loving
breadth, the stern condemnation of whatever
was not absolutely true, the disregard of what
the world said, the hatred of shams, and,
most puzzling of all, the often apparent
struggle with himself, the unceasing effort to
conquer his chief fault. Yet this noble, honest,
intellectual man was labouring under a great
delusion, a delusion which somehow gave him
an extraordinary power of loving ! Ah, no ! it
could not be his Christianity, though, which
made him loving, for were not most Christians
Lard and bitter and narrow-minded ?

'I wish,' she said, abruptly, 'you would tell
me what makes you willing to be friends with
us. I know well enough that the Church
Chronicle has been punishing you for your

defence of my father, and that there must be a
thousand disagreeable to encounter in your own
set just because you visit us. Why do you come?'
Because I care for you very muche
you care, too, perhaps, for other people
who will probably cut you for flying in the face
of society and visiting social outcasts.'

I don't think I can explain it to you yet
he replied. ' You would only tell me, as you
told me once before, that I was talking riddles
to you. When you have read your Greek
Testament and really studied the life of Christ,
I think you Avill understand. In the meantime,
St. Paul, I think, answers your question better
than I could, but you wouldn't understand even
his words, I fancy. There they are in the
Greek — he opened a Testament and showed
her a passage. ' I believe you would think the
English almost as great gibberish as this looks
to you in its unknown characters.'

Do you advise everyone to learn Greek?'
No : many have neither time nor ability, and
those who are not apt at languages would
spend their time more usefully over good translations

I think. But you have time and
brains , so I am very glad to teach you.'

I am afraid I would much rather it were
for any other purpose !' said Erica. ' I am
somehow weary of the very name of Christianity.
I have heard Wrangling over the
Bible till I am tired to death of it, and discussions
about the Atonement, and the Incarnation,
and the Resurrection, till the very
words are hateful to me. I am afraid I
shock you, but just put yourself in my place
and imagine how you would feel. It is not
even as if I had to debate the various questions ;
I have merely to sit and listen to a never-ending
dispute.'

^ You sadden me ; but it is quite natural that
you should be weary of such debates. I want
you to realise, though, that in the stormy atmosphere
of your father's lecture hall, in the
din and strife of controversy, it is impossible
that you should gain any true idea of Christ's
real character. Put aside all thought of the
dogmas you have been wearied with, and study
the life of the Man.'

Then the lesson began. It proved a treat to
both teacher and pupil. When Charles Osmond
had left, Erica still worked on.

I should like, at any rate, to spell out hi
riddle,' she thought to herself, turning back to
the passage he had shown her. And letter by
letter, and word by word, she made out the
sentence, ' For the love of Christ constrained
us.'

Was that what had made him come ? Why,
that was the alleged reason for half the persecutions
they met with ! Did the love of Christ
constrain Charles Osmond to be their friend
and at the same time constrain the clergy of

X not many years before to incite the

people to stone her father, and offer him every
possible insult ? Was it possible that the love
of Christ constrained Mr. Osmond to endure
contempt and censure on their behalf, and constrained
Mr. Randolph to hire a band of roughs
to interrupt her father's speeches ?

He is a grand exception to the general rule,'
she said to herself. 'If there were many
Christians like him, I should begin to think

VOL. I. U

there must be something more in Christianity
than we thought. Well, if only to please him,
1 must try to study the New Testament over
again, and as thoroughly as I can. No, not to
please him, though, but for the sake of being
perfectly honest. I would much rather be
working at that new book of Tyndall's !'

CHAPTER XV.

AN INTERVAL.

How can man love but what he yearns to help ?

R. Browning.

During the year of Erica's illness, Brian began
to realise bis true position towards her better
than he had hitherto done. He saw quite well
that any intrusion of his love, even any slight
manifestation of it, might do untold harm. She
was not ready for it yet — why, he could not
have told.

The truth was, that his Undine, although in
many respects a high-souled woman, was still
in some respects a child. She would have been
merely embarrassed by his love ; she did not
want it. She liked him very much as an acquaintance;
he was to her Tom's friend, or her

u2

doctor, or perhaps Mr. Osmond's son. In this
way she liked him, was even fond of him, but
as a lover he would have been a perplexing embarrassment.


He knew well enough that her frank liking
boded ill for his future success ; but. in spite
of that, he could not help being glad to obtain
any footing with her. It was something even
to be ' Tom's friend Brian.' He delighted in
hearing his name from her lips, although knowing
that it was no good augury. He lived on
from day to day, thinking very little of the
doubtful future as long as he could serve her in
the present. A reserved and silent man, devoted
to his profession, and to practical science
of every kind, few people guessed that he could
have any particular story of his own. He was
not at all the sort of man who would be expected
to fall hopelessly in love at first sight, nor
would anyone have selected him as a good
modern specimen of the chivalrous knight of
olden times; he was so completely a nineteenth
century man, so progressive, so scientific. But,
though his devotion was of the silent order, it

was, perhaps for that reason, all the truer.
There was about him a sort of divine patience.
As long as he could serve Erica, he was content
to wait any number of years in the hope of winning
her love. He accepted his position readily.
He knew that she had not the slightest love for
him. He was quite secondary to his father,
even, who was one of Erica's heroes. He liked
to make her talk of him ; her enthusiastic liking
was delightful — perhaps all the more so because
she was far from agreeing with her prophet.
Brian, with the wonderful self-forgetfulness of
true love, liked to hear the praises of all those
whom she admired ; he liked to realise what
were her ideals, even when conscious how far
he fell short of them.

For it was unfortunately true that his was not
the type of character she was most likely to
admire. As a friend she might like him much,
but he could hardly be her hero. His wonderful
patience was quite lost upon her ; she hardly
counted patience as a virtue at all. His grand
humility merely perplexed her ; it was at present
far beyond her comprehension. While his

willingness to serve everyone, even in the most
trifling and petty concerns of daily life, she
often attributed to mere good nature. Grand
acts of self-sacrifice she admired enthusiastically,
but the more really difficult round of small
denials and trifling services she did not in the
least appreciate. Absorbed in the contemplation,
as it were, of the Hamlets in life, she had no
leisure to spare for the Horatio.

She proved a capital patient; her whole mind
was set on getting well, and her steady commonsense
and obedience to rules made her a
great favourite with her elder doctor. Really
healthy, and only invalided by the hard work
and trouble she had undergone, seven or eight
months' rest did wonders for her. In the enforced
quiet, too, she found plenty of time for
study. Charles Osmond had never had a
better pupil. They learnt to know each other
very well during those lessons, and many were
the perplexing questions which Erica started.
But they were not as before a mere repetition
of the difficulties she had been primed with at
her father's lecture-hall, nor did she bring them

forward with the triumphant conviction that
they were unanswerable. They were real,
honest questions, desiring and seeking everywhere
for the true answer which might be
somewhere.

The result of her study of the life of Christ
was at first to make her a much better Secularist.
She found to her surprise that there was
much in His teaching that entirely harmonised
with Secularism ; that, in fact, He spoke a great
deal about the improvement of this world, and
scarcely at all about that place in the clouds of
which Christians made so much. By the end of
a year she had also reached the conviction that,
whatever interpolations there might be in the
gospels, no untrue writer, no admiring but dishonest
narrator, could have conceived such a
character as that of Christ. For she had dug
down to the very root of the matter. She had
left for the present the, to her, perplexing and
almost irritating catalogue of miracles, and had
begun to perceive the strength and indomitable
courage , the grand self-devotion, the all-embracing
love of the Man. Very superficial had

been her former view. He had been to her a
shadowy, unreal being, soft and gentle, even a
little effeminate, speaking sometimes what seemed
to her narrow words about only saving the
lost sheep of the house of Israel. A character
somehow wanting in that Power and Intellect
which she worshipped.

But on a really deep study she saw how
greatly she had been mistaken. Extraordinarily
mistaken, both as to the character and the teaching.
Christ was without doubt a grand ideal !
To be as broad-hearted as he was, as universally
loving — it would be no bad aim ! And, as in
daily life Erica realised how hard was the
practice of that love, she realised at the same
time the loftiness of the ideal, and the weakness
of her own powers.

But, though I do begin to see why you take
this man as your ideal,' she said, one day, to
Charles Osmond, ' I cannot, of course, accept a
great deal that He is said to have taught. When
He speaks of love to men, that is understandable,
one can try to obey ; but when He speaks about
God, then, of course, I can only think that He

was cl eluded. You may admire Joan of Arc,
and see the great beauty of her character, yet
at the same time believe, that she was acting
under a delusion ; you may admire the character
of Gotama without considering Buddhism
the true religion ; and so with Christ, I may
reverence and admire His character while believing
Him to have been mistaken.'

Charles Osborn smiled. He knew from many
trifling signs, unnoticed by others, that Erica
would have given a great deal to see her way
to an honest acceptance of that teaching of
Christ which spoke of an unseen but everywhere
present Father of all, of the everlastingness of
love, of a reunion with those who are dead.
She hardly allowed to herself that she longed
to believe it, she dreaded the least concession
to that natural craving, she distrusted her own
truthfulness, feared above all things that she
might be deluded, might imagine that to be
true which was in reality false.

And, happily, her prophet was too wise to
attempt in any way to quicken the work
which was going on within her ; he was one of

those rare men who can be, even in such a case,
content to wait. He would as soon have
thought of digging up a seed to see whether he
could not quicken its slow development of root
and stem, as of interfering in any way with
Erica. He came and went, taught her Greek,
and always day after day, week after week,
month after mouth, however much pressed by
his parish work, however harassed by private
troubles, he came to her with the genial sympathy,
the broad-hearted readiness to hear
calmly all sides of the question, which had
struck Erica so much the very first time she had
met him.

The other members of the family liked him
almost as well, although they did not know him
so intimately' as Erica. Aunt Jean, who had at
first been a little prejudiced against him, ended
by singing his praises more loudly than anyone,
perhaps conquered in spite of herself by the
man's extraordinary power of sympathy, his
ready perception of good even in those with
whom he disagreed most.

Mrs. Craigie was in many respects very like

her brother, and was a very useful worker,
though much of her work was little seen.
She did not speak in public ; all the oratorical
powers of the family seemed to have concentrated
themselves in Luke Raeburn ; but she
wrote and worked indefatigably, proving a
very useful second to her brother. A hard,
wearing life, however, had told a good deal
upon her, and trouble had somewhat embittered
her nature. She had not the vein of humour
which had stood Raeburn in such good stead.
Severely matter-of-fact, and almost despising
those who had any poetry in their nature, she
did not always agree very well with Erica.
The two loved each other sincerely, and
were far too loyal both to clan and creed to
allow their differences really to separate them ;
but there was, undoubtedly, something in their
natures which jarred. Even Tom found it hard
at times to bear the strong infusion of bitter
criticism which his mother introduced into the
home atmosphere. He was something of a
philosopher, however, and knowing that she
had been through great trouble, and had had

nnich to try her, he made up his mind that it
was natural — therefore inevitable — therefore to
be borne.

The home life was not without its frets and
petty trials, but on one point there was perfect
accord. All were devoted to the head of the
house — would have sacrificed anything to bring
him a few minutes' peace.

As for Raeburn, when not occupied in actual
conflict, he lived in a sort of serene atmosphere
of thought and study, far removed from all the
small differences and little cares of his household.
They invariably smoothed down all such
roughnesses in his presence, and probably in
any case he would have been unable to see such
microscopic grievances ; unless, indeed, they
left any shade of annoyance on Erica's face,
and then his fatherhood detected at once what
vas wrong.

It would be tedious however, to follow the
course of Erica's life for the next three years,
for though the time was that of her chief mental
growth, her days were of the quietest. Not
till she was two and twenty did she fully recover

from the effects of her sudden sorrow and
the subsequent overwork. In the meantime,
her father's influence steadily deepened and
spread throughout the country, and troubles
multiplied.

CHAPTER XVI.

HYDE PARK.

Who spouts his message to the wilderness,
Lightens his soul and feels one burden less ;
But to the people preach, and you will find
They'll pay you back with thanks ill to your mind.
Goethe. Translated by J. S. B.

Hyde Park is a truly national property, and it
is amusing and perhaps edifying to note the
various uses to which it is often put. In the
morning it is the rendezvous of nurses and
children ; in the afternoon of a fashionable
throng ; on Sunday evenings it is the resort of
hard-working men and women, who have to
content themselves with getting a breath of
fresh air once a week. But, above all, the park
is the meeting-place of the people, the place for
mass meetings and monster demonstrations.

On a bright day in June, when the trees
were still in their freshest green the crowd of
wealth and fashion had beaten an ignominious
retreat before a great political demonstration
to be held that afternoon.

Everyone knew that the meeting would bea
very stormy one, for it related to the most
burning question of the day a question which
was hourly growing more and more momentous,
and which for the time had divided England
into two bitterly opposed factions.

These years which Erica had passed so quietly
had been eventful years for the country,
years of strife and bloodshed, years of reckless
expenditure, years which deluded some and enraged
others, provoking most bitter animosity
between the opposing parties. The question
was not a class question, and a certain number
of the working classes and a large number of
the London roughs warmly espoused the cause
of that party which appealed to their love of
power and to a selfish patriotism. The Hyde
Park meeting would inevitably be a turbulent
one. Those who wished to run no risk remained

at home ; Rotten Row was deserted ; the carriage
road almost empty ; while from the gateway
there poured in a never-ending stream of
people — some serious-looking, some eager and
excited, some with a dangerously vindictive
look, some merely curious. Every now and
then the more motley and disorderly crowd was
reinforced by a club with its brass band and
banners and gradually the mass of human
beings grew from hundreds to a thousand
from one thousand to many thousands, until,
indeed, it became almost impossible to form
any idea of the actual numbers, so enormous
was the gathering.

We shall have a bad time of it to-days remarked
Raeburn to Brian, as they forced their
way on. ' If Tm not very much mistaken, too,
we are vastly outnumbered.'

He looked round the huge assembly from his
vantage ground of six foot four, his cool intrepidity
not one whit shaken by the knowledge
that, by what he was about to sap, he should
draw dowai on his owen head all the wrath of the
roughest portion of the crowd.

'Twill be against fearful odds !' said Tom,
elbowing vigorously to keep up with his companion.


We fear nae foe !' said Raebnrn, quoting his
favourite motto. ' And , after all, it where no
bad end to die protesting against wicked rapacity,
needless bloodshed.'

His eye kindled as he thought of the protest
he hoped to make ; his heart beat high as ho
looked round upon the throng so largely composed
of those hostile to himself. Was there
not a demand for his superabundant energy?
a demand for the tremendous powers of endurance,
of influence, of devotion which where stored
up within him? As an athlete joys in trying
a difficult feat, as an artist jo^^s in attempting a
lofty subject, so Raeburn, in his consciousness
of power, in his absolute conviction of truth,
toyed in the prospect of a most dangerous
conflict.

Brian, watching him presently from a little
distance, could not wonder at the immense influence
he had gained in the country. The mere
physique of the man was wonderfully impressive
VOL. I. X

the strong, rugged Scottish face, the latent
power conveyed in his whole bearing. He
was no demagogue, he never flattered the
people ; he preached indeed a somewhat severe
creed, but, even in his sternest mood, the hold
he got over the people, the power he had of
raising the most degraded to a higher level,
was simply marvellous. It was not likely,
however, that his protest of to-day would lead
to anything but a free fight. If he could
make himself effectually heard, he cared very
little for what followed. It was necessary
that a protest should be made, and he was
the right man to make it ; therefore, come ill
or well, he would go through with it, and,
if he escaped with his life, — so much the better !
The meeting began. A moderate speaker
was heard without interruption, but, the instant
Raeburn stood up, a chorus of yells arose. For
several minutes he made no attempt to speak ;
but his dignity seemed to grow in proportion
with the indignities offered him. He stood
there towering above the crowd like a rock of
strength, scanning the thousands of faces with

the steady gaze of one who in thinking of the
progress of the race has lost all consciousness
of his own personality. He had come there to
protest against injustice, to use his vast strength
for others, to spend and be spent for millions,
to die if need be ! Raeburn was made of the stuff
of which martyrs are made; standing there face
to face with an angry crowd, which might at
any moment break loose and trample him to
death or tear him in pieces, his heart was nevertheless
all aglow with the righteousness of his
causOj with the burning desire to make an availing
protest against an evil which was desolating
thousands of homes.

The majesty of his calmness began to influence
the mob; the hisses and groans died away
into silence, such comparative silence that is,
as was compatible with the greatness of the
assembly. Then Raeburn braced himself up ;
dignified before, he now seemed even more erect
and stately. The knowledge that for the
moment he had that huge crowd entirely under
control was stimulating in the highest degree.
In a minute his stentorian voice was ringing out

x2

fearlessly into the vast arena ; thousands of
hearts were vibrating to his impassioned appeal.
To each one it seemed as if he individually were
addressed.

You who call yourselves Englishmen, I come
to appeal to you to-day ! You who call yourselves
freeman, I come to tell you that you are
acting like slaves.'

Then with rare tact he alluded to the strongest
points of the British character, touching
with consummate skill the vulnerable parts of
his audience. He took for granted that their
aims were pure, their standard lofty, and by the
very supposition raised for the time the most
abject of his hearers, inspired them with his own
enthusiasm.

Presently when he felt secure enough to venture
it, when the crowd was absolutely hanging
on his words with breathless attention, he appealed
no longer directly to the people, but drew,
in graphic language, the picture of the desolations
brought by war. The simplicity of his
phrases, his entire absence of showiness or bombast,
made his influence indescribably deep and

powerful. A mere ranter, a frothy mob orator,
would have been silenced long before.

But this man had somehow got hold of the
great assembly, had conquered them by sheer
force of will : in a battle of one will against
thousands the one had conquered, and would
hold its own till it had administered the hard
home-thrust which would make the thousands
wince and retaliate.

Now under the power of that ' sledge-hammer
Saxon,' that marvellously graphic picture
of misery and bereavement, hard-headed, and
hitherto hard-hearted men were crying like children.
Then came the rugged, unvarnished statement
shouted forth in the speaker's sternest voice.

All this is being done in your name, men of
England! not only in your name, but at your
cost ! You are responsible for this bloodshed,
this misery! How long is it to go on? How
long are you free men going to allow yourselves
to be bloody executioners ? How long are you
to be slavish followers of that grasping ambition
which veils its foulness under the fair name of
patriotism V

Loud murmurs began to arise at this, and
the orator knew that the ground-swell betokened
the coming storm. He proceeded with tenfold
energy, his words came down like hailstones,
"with a fiery indignation he delivered his
mighty philippic, in a torrent of forceful words
he launched out the most tremendous denunciation
he had ever uttered.

The string had been gradually worked up to
its highest possible tension ; at length when the
strain was the greatest it suddenly snapped.
Eaeburn's will had held all those thousands in
check; he had kept his bitterest enemies
hanging on his words ; he had lashed them into
fury, and still kept his grip over them ; he had
worked them up, gaining more and more power
over them, till at length, as he shouted forth the
last words of a grand peroration, the bitterness
and truth of his accusations proved keener
than his restraining influence.

He had foreseen that the spell would break,
he knew the instant it was broken. A moment
before, and he had been able to sway
that huge crowd as he pleased ; now he was

at their mercy. No will-power, no force of
language, no strength of earnestness or truth
would avail him now. All that he had to trust
to was his immense physical strength, and what
was that when measured against thousands !

He saw the dangerous surging movement ia
the sea of heads, and knew only too well what
it betokened. With a frightful yell of mingled
hatred and execration, the seething human mass
bore down upon him ! His own followers and
friends did what they could for him, but that
was very little. His case was desperate. Desperation,
however, inspires some people with an
almost superhuman energy. Life was sweet,
and that day he fought for his life. The very
shouting and hooting of the mob, the roar of
the angry multitude, which might well have
filled even a brave man with panic, stimulated
him, strengthened him to resist to the uttermost.


He fought like a lion, forcing his way
through the furious crowd, attacked in the
most brutal way on every side, yet ever struggling
on if only by inches. Never once did

his steadfastness waver, never for a single instant
did his spirit sink. His unfailing presence
of mind enabled him to get through what
would have been impossible to most men, his
great height and strength stood him in good
stead, while the meanness and the injustice of
the attack, the immense odds against which he
was fighting, nerved him for the struggle.

It was more like a hideous nightmare thana
piece of actual life, those fierce tiger faces
swarming around, that roar of vindictive anger,
that frightful crushing, that hail-storm of savage
blows ! But, whether life or nightmare, it must
be gone through with. In the thick of the
fight a line of Goethe came to his mind, one of
his favourite mottos, — ' Make good thy 
and move the world.'

ind even then he half-smiled to himself at
the forlornness of the hope that he should ever
need a standing-place again.

With renewed vigour he fought his way on,
and with a sort of glow of triumph and newborn
hope had almost seen his way to a place
of comparative safety, when a fearful blow hopelessly

maimed him. With a vain struggle to
save himself he fell to the earth, — a vision of
fierce faces, green leaves, and blue sky flashed
before his eyes, an inward vision of Erica, a
moment's agony, and then the surging crowd
closed over him, and he knew no more.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLF.NHKTM HOUSE.

pmJ:^'^^'^l

;-■.,« VlLk^

5S. C-^

8&3
b34we

CENTRAL CIRCULATION AND BOOKSTACKS

The person borrowing this material is responsible
for its renewal or return before
the Latest Date stamped below. You maybe
charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for
each non-returned or lost item.

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be
causes for student disciplinary action. All materials owned by
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of Illinois Criminal
Law and Procedure,

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Bona-Champaign

DEC Z 8 1999
JUL 26 2000

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. L162

A NOVEL

BY

EDNA Lyell

AUTHOR OF "DONOVAN," ETC.

"Men are so made as to resent nothing more impatiently than to be
treated as criminal for opinions which they deem true." — Spinoza.

AVe two are a multitude"— Ovid.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

-VT^E T^SAT^O

rv

CHAPTER I.

AT death' S door.

Sorrow and wrong are pangs of a new birth :
All we who suffer bleed for one another ;
No life may live alone, but all in all ;
We lie within the tomb of our dead selves,
Waiting till One command us to arise.

Hex. Rode ISTOEL.

Knowing that Erica would have a very anxious
afternoon, Charles Osmond gave up his brief
mid-day rest, snatched a hasty lunch at a third-rate
restaurant, finished his parish visits sooner
than usual, and reached the little house in
Guilford Terrace in time to share the worst part
of her waiting. He found her hard at work as
usual, her table strewn with papers and books
of reference. Raeburn had purposely left her
VOL. II. B

Bora work to do for bini which he knew would
fully occupy her ; but the mere fact that she
knew he had done it on purpose to engross her
mind with other matters, entirely prevented her
from giving it her fall attention. She had never
felt more thankful to see Charles Osmond than
at that moment.

When your whole heart and mind are in
Ilydc Park, how are you to drag them back to
Avhat some vindictive old early Father said
about the eternity of punishment !' she exclaimed,
with a smile which very thinly disguised
her consuming anxiety.

They sat down near the open window, Erica
taking possession of that side which commanded
the view of the entrance of the cul do ac,
Charles Osmond did not speak for a minute or
two, but sat watching her, trying to realise to
himself what such anxiety as hers must be.
She was evidently determined to keep outwardly
calm, not to let her fears gain undue power
over her, but she could not conceal the nervous
trembling which beset her at every sound of
wheels in the quiet square, nor did she know
that in her brave eyes there lurked the most visible

manifestation possible of haggard, anxious
waiting. She sat with her watch in her hand, the
little watch that Eric Haeberlein had given her
when she was almost a child, and which, even
in the days of their greatest poverty, her father
had never allowed her to part with. What
strange hours it had often measured for her I
Age-long hours of grief, weary days of illness
and pain, times of eager expectation, times of
sickening anxiety, times of mental conflict, of
baffling questions and perplexities. How the
hands seemed to creep on this afternoon, at
times almost to stand still !

Now, I suppose if you were in my case, you
would pray?' said Erica, raising her eyes to
Charles Osmond. ' It must be a relief, but yet,
when you come to analyse it, it is most illogical
a fearful waste of time. If there is a God who
works by fixed laws, who sees the whole maze
of everyone's life beforehand, then the particular
time and manner of my father's death must be
already appointed, and no prayer of mine that
he may come safely through this afternoon's
danger can be of the least avail. Besides, if a
God could be turned round from His original

B 2

purpose by human wills aud much speaking, I
hardly think He would be worth believing in.'

You are taking the lowest view of prayer —
mere petition ; but even that, I think, is set on
its right footing as soon as we grasp the true conception
of the ideal father. Do you mean to say
that, because your father's rules were unwavering
and his day's work marked out beforehand,
he did not like you to come to him when you
were a little child with all your wishes and
longings and requests, even though they were
sometimes childish and often impossible to
gratify ? Would ho have been better pleased if
you had shut up everything in your own heart,
and never of your own accord told him anything
about your babyish plans and wants V

Still, prayer seems to me waste of time,' said
Erica.

'What! if it brings you a talk with your
Father ? If it is a relief to you and a pleasure —
because a sign of trust and love — to Ilimm ? Butin
one way I entirely agree with you, unless it
is perfectly spontaneous it is not only useless
but harmful. Imagine a child forced to talk to
its father — and this seems to me the truest

defence of prayer; to the "natural man" it '^
always will seem foolishness, to the " spiritual
man " — to one who has recognised the All-father
— it is the absolute necessity of life. And I
I think by degrees one passes from eager
petition for personal and physical good things
into the truer and more Christlike spirit of
prayer. " These are my fears, these are my
wishes, but not my will but Thine be done."
Shakspeare had got hold of a grand truth, it
seems to me, when he said

So find we profit by losing of our prayers." '

And yet your ideal man distinctly said, "Ask
and ye shall receive," ' said Erica. ^ There are no
limitations. For aught we know, some pigheaded
fanatic may be at this moment praying
that God in His mercy would rid the earth of
that most dangerous man, Luke Raeburn; while
I might be — of course I am not, but it is conceivable
that I might be— praying for his safety.
Both of us might claim the same promise, " Ask
and ye shall receive." '

You forget one thing,' said Charles Osmond.
You would both pray to the Father, and His
answer — which you, by the way, might consider

no answer — would bo the answer of a father.
Do you not think the fanatic would certainly
find profit in having lii.s most unbrotherly
request disregarded ? And the true loss or
gain of prayer would surely be in this ; the
fanatic would, by his un-Christlike request,
put himself further from God ; you, by your
spontaneous and natural avowal of need and
recognition of a Supreme loving will, would
draw nearer to God. Nor do we yet at all
understand the extraordinary influence exerted
on others by any steady, earnest concentration
of thought ; science is but just awakening to the
fact that there is an unknown power which we
have hitherto never dreamed of. I have great
hope that in this direction, as in all others,
science may show us the hidden workings of
our Father.'

Erica forgot her anxiety for a moment ; she
was watching Charles Osmond's face with
mingled curiosity and perplexity. To speak to
one whose belief in the Unseen seemed stronger
and more influential than most people's belief in
the seen, was always very strange to her, and
with her prophet she Alas almost always conscious

of this double life she considered it double
a real outer and an imaginary inner). His
strong conviction ; the every-day language which
he used in speaking of those truths which most
people, from a mistaken notion of reverence,
wrap up in a sort of ecclesiastical phraseology ;
above all, the carrying out in his life of the
idea of universal brotherhood, with so many a
mere form of words — all served to impress
Erica very deeply. She knew him too well and
loved him too truly to pause often, as it were,
to analyse his character. Every now and then,
however, some new phase was borne in upon
her, and some chance word, emphasising the
difference between them, forced her from sheer
honesty to own how much that was noble
seemed in him to be the outcome of faith in
Christ.

They went a little more deeply into the
prayer question. Then, with the wonder growing
on her more and more, Erica suddenly
exclaimed,

It is so wonderful to me that you can
believe without logical proof — believe a thing
which affects your whole life so immensely, and

yet be unable to deraouetrate the very existence
of a God I'

Do you believe your father loves you V asked
Charles Osmond.

My father ? Why, of course.'

You can't logically prove that his love has
any true existence.'

Why, yes,' exclaimed Erica. * Not a day
passes without some word, look, thought,
which would prove it to anyone If there is
one thing that I am certain of in the whole
world, it is that my father loves me. Why, you
who know him so well — you must know that !
You must have seen that !'

All his care of you may be mere self-interests
said Charles Osmond. * Perhaps he
puts on a sort of appearance of affection for
you just for the sake of what people would say
not a very likely thing for Mr. Raeburn to
consider, I own. Still, you can't demonstrate tome
that his love is a reality.'

lout I /oiow it is !' cried Erica, vehemently.

Of course you know, my child ; you know
in your heart, and our hearts c;ui teach us what
no power of intellect, no skill in logic can ever

teach us. You can't logically prove the existence
of your father's love, and I can't logically
prove the existence of the All-father ; but in
our hearts we both of us know. The deepest
most sacred realities are generally those of
heart-knowledge, and quite out of the pale of
logic'

Erica did not speak, but sat musing. After
all, what could be proved with absolute certainty
? Why, nothing, except such bare facts as
that two and two make four. Was even mathematical
proof so absolutely certain ! Were
they not already beginning to talk of a possible
fourth dimension of space when even that might
no longer be capable of demonstration.

Well, setting aside actual proof,' she resumed,
after a silence, ' how do you bring it
down even to a probability that God is V

We must all of us start with a supposition,'
said Charles Osmond. ' There must on the one
hand either be everlasting matter or everlasting
force (whether these be two real existences, or
whether matter be only force conditioned), or, on
the other hand, you have the alternative of the
everlasting " He." You at present base your

belief on the first alternative. I base mine on
the last, Which, I grant you, is at the outset the
most difficult of the two. I find, however, that
nine times out of ten the most difficult theory is
the truest. Granting the everlasting *' He,"
you must allow self-consciousness, without
which there could be no true personality. Then,
being the Originator, He must be all powerful,
all knowledge-full, and all love-full. We will
not quarrel about names ; call the Everlasting
what you please. 'father" seems to meat
once the highest and simplest name.'

But evil !' broke in Erica, triumphantly ; ' if
He originates all, He must originate] evil as well
as good.'

Certainly,' said Charles Osmond, * He has
expressly told us so. " I form the light and create
darkness ; I make peace, and create evil ; I, the
Lord, do all these things." '

I recollect now, wo spoke of this two or
three years ago,' said Erica. ' You said that
the highest good was attained by passing
through struggles and'temptations.*

Think of it in this way,' said Charles Osmond.
* The Father is educating His children

; what education was ever brought about
without pain ? The wise human father does
not so much shield his child from small pains
but encourages him to get wisdom from them
for the future, tries to teach him endurance and
courage. Pain is absolutely necessary as an
element in education, probably there is no evolution
possible without it. The father may regret
it, but, if he is wise, knows that it must be.
He suffers twice as much as the child from the
infliction of the pain. The All-father, being
at once all-knowing and all-loving, can see the
end of the education while we only see it in
process, and perhaps exclaim, '' What a
frightful state of things !" or like your favourite
Stephen Blackpool "— '' It's all a muddle !" '

And the end you consider to be perfection,
and eternal union with God. How can you
think immortality probable V

It is the absolutely necessary outcome of
belief in such a God, such a Father as we have
spoken of. What ! could God have willed that
His children whom He really loves should, after
a time, fade utterly away? If so. He would be
less loving than an average earthly father. If

lie did indeed love them, and would fuiii Lave
had them ever with Ilimm, but could not, then
lo woukl not be all-powerful.'

I see you are universalist, a great contrast
to my Early Father here, who gloats over the
delightful prospect of watching from his comfortable
heaven the tortures of all unbelievers.
But, tell me, w4iat do you think would be our
position in your unseen world ? I suppose the
mere realisation of having given one's life in a
mistaken cause would be about the most terrible
pain conceivable.'

I think,' said Charles Osmond, with one of
his grave, quiet smiles, ^ that death will indeed
be your " gate of life," that seeing the light you
will come to your true self, and exclaim, —
'' Who'd have thought it !" '

The every-day language sounded quaint, it
made Erica smile ; but Charles Osmond continued,
with a brightness in his eyes which she
was far from understanding,

And you know there are to be those w^io shall
say, " Lord, when saw we Thee in distress and
helped Thee ?" They had not recognised Ilimm
here, but lie recognised them there ! They

shared in the "Come, ye blessed of my
Father." ' 4^

Well said Erica, thoughtfully, ' if any
Christianity |^e true, it must be your loving
belief, not the-bloodthirsty scheme of the Calvinists.
If that could by any possibility be
true, 1 shots greatly prefer, like Kingsley's
dear old '' Y^ilf," to share hell with my own
people.'

The wordjjiad scarcely left her lips when,
with a startled cry, she sprang to her feet and
hurried to the door. The next moment Charles
Osmond saw Tom pass the window ; he was unmistakably
the bearer of bad news.

His first panting words were reassuring —
Brian says you are not to be frightened ;' but
they were evidently the mere repetition of a
message. T^nlRiimself was almost hopeless ; his
wrath and grief became more apparent every
minute as he gave an incoherent account of the
afternoon's work.

The brutes, the fiends, had half killed the
chieftain, had set on him like so many tigers.
Brian and Haldane were bringing him home —
bad sent him (5tn;o prepare.'

Erica had listened so far with a colourless
face, and bands tightly clasped ; but the word
'prepare' seemed to bring now life to her. in
an instant lie was her strongest self.

They will never try to take him up that
steep, narrow staircase! Quick, Torn! Help
me to move this couch into the study.'

The little Irish servant was pressed into the
service, too, and sent upstairs to fetch and carry,
and in a very few minutes the preparations were
complete, and Erica had at hand all the appliances
most likely to be needed. Just as all was
done, and she was beginning to feel that a
minute's pause would be the * last straw,' Tom
heard the sound of wheels in the square, and
hurried out. Erica stood in the doorway watching,
and presently saw a small crowd of helpers
bearing a deathly-looking burden. Whiteness
of death — redness of blood ! The ground seemed
rocking beneath her feet, when a strong hand
took hers and drew her into the house.

Don't be afraid,' said a voice, which she knew
to be Brian's, though a black mist would not
let her see him. * lie was conscious a minute
ago; this is only from the pain of moving.
Which room V

'The study,' she replied, recovering herself.
Give me something to do, Brian, quickly.'

He saw that in doing lay her safety, and kept
her fully employed, so much so, indeed, that
from sheer lack of time she was able to stave off
the faintness which had threatened to overpower
her. After a time her father came to himself,
and Erica's face, which had been the last in his
mind in full consciousness, was the first which
now presented itself to his awakening gaze. He
smiled.

Well, Erica ! So, after all, they haven't
quite done for me ! Nine lives like a cat as I
always told you.'

His voice was faint, but with all his wonted
energy he raised himself before they could remonstrate.
He was far more injured, however,
than he knew ; with a stifled groan he fell back
once more in a swoon, and it was many hours
before they were able to restore him.

After that fever set in, and a shadow as of
death fell on the house in Guilford Terrace.
Doctors came and went ; Brian almost lived with
bis patient ; friends — Raeburn had hosts of them
came with help of every description. The

gloomy little alley admitted every day crowds
of inquirers who came to the door, read the
bulletin, glanced up at the windows, and went
away looking graver than when they came.

Erica lost count of time altogether. The past
seemed blotted out ; the weight of the present
was so great that she would not admit an''
thought of the future, though conscious always
of a blank dread which she dared not pause to
analyse. Sufficient indeed for her day was the
evil thereof! She struggled on somehow with
a sort of despairing strength, only once or twice
did she even recollect the outside world.

It happened that on the first Wednesday
after the Hyde Park meeting some one mentioned
the day of the week in her hearing. She
was in the sick-room at the time, but at once
remembered that her week's work was untouched,
that she had not written a line fir the
Idol-breathe. Every idea seemed to have gone
out of her head : for a minute she felt that to
save her life she could not write a line. But
still she conscientiously struggled to remember
what subject had been allotted her, and in the
temporary stillness of the first night-watch drew

writing materials towards her, and leant her
head on her hands until, almost by an effort of
will, she at length recalled the theme for her
article.

Of course ! it was to be that disgraceful disturbance
in the church at Z . She remembered
the whole affair now, it all rose up before
her graphically — not a bad subject at all ! their
party might make a good deal by it. Her
article inst be bright, descriptive, sarcastic. Yet
how was she to write such an article when her
heartfelt like lead? An involuntary 'I can't '
rose to her lips, and she glanced at her father's
motionless form, her eyes filling with tears.
Then one of his sayings came to her mind, * No
such word as ^' Can't " in the dictionary,' and
she dashed the tears from her eyes, snatched
up her pen, and began to write rapidly — almost
defiantly. No sooner had she begun than
her very exhaustion, the lateness of the hour,
and the stress of circumstance came to her aid
she had never before written so brilliantly.

The humour of the scene struck her ; little
flashes of mirth at the expense of both priest
and people, delicate sarcasms, the more searching

VOL. II. C

from their very refinement, awoke in her brain
and were swiftly transcribed. In the middle of
one of the most daring sentences Raeburn
stirred. Erica's pen was thrown down at once;
she was at his side absorbed once more in attending
to his wants, forgetful quite of religious
controversy, of the Idol Breaker, of anything in
fact in the whole world but her father. Not till
an hour had passed was she free to finish her
writing, but by the time her aunt came to relieve
guard at two o'clock the article was finished
and Erica stole noiselessly into the next
room to put it up.

To her surprise she found that Tom had not
gone to bed. He was still toiling away at his
desk with a towel round his head ; she could
almost have smiled at the ludicrous mixture of
grief and sleepiness in his face, had not her own
heart been so loaded with care and sadness.
The post brought in what Tom described as
bushels ' of letters every day, and he was
working away at them now with sleepy heroism.

'How tired you look,' said Erica. 'See! I
have brought in this for the Idol.'

You've been writing it now i that is good

of you. I was afraid we should have to makeup
with some wretched padding of Blank's.'

He took the sheets from her and began to
read. Laughter is often only one remove from
grief, and Tom, though he was sad-hearted
enough, could not keep his countenance through
Erica's article. First his shoulders began to
shake,, then he burst into such a paroxysm of
noiseless laughter that Erica, fearing that he
could not restrain himself, and would be heard
in the sick-room, pulled the towel from his forehead
over his mouth ; then, conquered herself by
the absurdity of his appearance, she was obliged
to bury her own face in her hands, laughing
more and more whenever the incongruousness
of the laughter occurred to her. When they
bad exhausted themselves, the profound depression
which had been the real cause of the violent
reaction returned with double force. Tom
sighed heavily and finished reading the article
with the gravest of faces. He was astonished
that Erica could have written at such a time an
article positively scintillating with mirth.

How did you manage anything so witty tonight
of all nights?' he asked.

c2

Don't you remember Hans Andersen's clown
Punchinello said Erica. ' He never laughed
and joked so gaily as the night when his love
died and his own heart was broken.*

There was a look in her eyes which made
Tom reply, quickly,

Don't write any more just now ; the professor
has promised us something for next week
Don't write any more till — till the chieftain is
well.'

After that she wished him good-night rather
hastily, crept upstairs to her attic, and threw
herself down on her bed. Why had he spoken
of the future ? . Why had his voice hesitated ?
No, she would not think, she would not !

So the article appeared in that week's Idol-breaker,
and thousands and thousands of people
laughed over it. It even excited displeased
comment from * the other side,' and in many
ways did a great deal of what in Guilford Terrace
was considered ' good work.' For Erica
herself, it was long before she had time to give
it another thought ; it was to her only a desperately
hard duty which she had succeeded in
doing. Nobody ever guessed how much it hud
cost her.

The weary time dragged on, days and weeks
passed by ; Raebnrn was growing weaker, but
clung to life with extraordinary tenacity. And
now very bitterly they felt the evils of this
voluntarily embraced poverty, for the summer
heat was for a few days almost tropical, and
the tiny little rooms in the lodging-house were
stifling. Brian was very anxious to have the
patient moved across to his father's house ; but,
though Charles Osmond said all he could in.
favour of the scheme, the other doctors would
not consent, thinking the risk of removal too
great. And, besides, it would be useless, they
maintained, — the atheist was evidently dying.
Brian, wiio was the youngest could not carry
out his wishes in defiance of the others, but he
would not deny himself the hope of even yet
saving Erica's Tatler. He devised punkahs,
became almost nurse and doctor in one, and
utterly refused to lose heart. Erica herself was
the only other person who shared his hopefulness,
or perhaps her feeling could hardly be
described by that word ; she was not hopeful,
but she had so resolutely set herself to live in
the present that she had managed altogether to

crowd out the future, and ^vith it the worst
fear.

One day, however, it broke upon her suddenly.
Some one had left a newspaper in the sickroom
; it was weeks since she had seen one,
and in a brief interval, while her either slept,
or seemed to sleep, she took it up half mechanically.
How much it would have interested hera
little while ago, how meaningless it all seemed
to her now! * Latest Telegrams,' * News
from the Seat of War,' 'Parliamentary Intelligence,*
— a speech by Sir Michael Cunningham,
one of her heroes, on u question in which she
was interested. She could not read it, all the
life seemed gone out of it, to-day the paper
Alas nothing to her but a broad sheet with so
many columns of printed matter. But as she
was putting it down their own name caught
her eye. All at once her benumbed faculties
regained their power, her heart began to beat
wildly, for there, in clearest print, in short,
choppy, unequivocal sentences, was the hideous
fear which she had contrived so long to banish.
Mr. Raeburn is dying. The bulletins have
daily been growing less and less hopeful. Yesterday

Dr. R , who had been called in,

could only confirm the unfavourable opinion of
the other doctors. In all probability the days
of the great apostle of atheism are numbered.
It rests with the Hyde Park rioters, and those
-who by word and example have incited them,
to bear the responsibility of making a martyr
of such a man as Mr. Luke Eaeburn. Emphatically
disclaiming the slightest sympathy with
Mr. Raeburn's religious views we yet '

But Erica could read no more. Whatever
modicum of charity the writer ventured to put
forth was lost upon her. The opening sentence
danced before her eyes in letters of fire. That
morning she met Brian in the passage and drew
him into the sitting-room. He saw at once
how it was with her.

'Look!' she said, holding the newspaper
towards him. ' Is that true ? or is it only a
sensation trap, — or written for party purposes
V

Her delicate lips were closed with their hardest
expression, her eyes only looked grave and
questioning. She watched his face as he read,
lost her last hope, and, with a look of such

anguish as he had never before seen, drew tho
paper from hit, and caught his hand in hers in
wild entreaty.

Oh, Brian, Brian ! is there no hope? Surely
you can do something for him. There iiiust be
hope, he is so strong, so full of life I'

Pie struggled hard for voice and words to
answer her, but the imploring pressure of her
hands on his had nearly unnerved him. Already
the grief that kills lurked in her eyes, — he knew
that if her father died she would not long survive
him.

Don't say what is untrue I' she continued.
Don't let me drive you into telling a lie, —
but only tell me if there is indeed no hope — no
chance.'

'It may be,' said Brian. 'You must not
expect, for those far wiser than I say it cannot
be. But I hope — yes, I still hope.'

On that crumb of comfort she lived ; but it
was a weary day, and for the first time she
noticed that her father, who was free from
fever, followed her everywhere with his eyes.
She knew intuitively that he thought himself
dying.

Towards evening she was sitting beside him,
slowly drawing her fingers through his thick
masses of snow-white hair in the way he liked
best, when he looked suddenly right into her
eyes with his own strangely similar ones, deep,
earnest eyes, full now of a sort of dumb yearning.

Little son Eric,' he said, faintly, ' you weill
go on with the work I am leaving.'

Yes, father,' she replied, firmly, though her
heart felt as if it would break.

A harmful delusion,' he murmured, half to
himself, ' taking up our best men ! swallowing
up the money of the people ! What's that
singing, Erica?'

sit is the children in the hospital,' she replied.
* I'll shut the window if they disturb
you, father.'

^ No,' he said. ' One can tolerate the delusion
for them if it makes their pain more bearable.
Poor bairns ! poor bairns ! Pain is an
odd mystery.'

He drew down her hand and held it in his,
seeming to listen to the singing, which floated.
in clearly through the open window at right
angles with the back windows of the hospital.

Neither of them knew what the hymn was, but

the refrain which came after every verse as if

even the tiniest were joining in it was perfectly

audible to Luke Raeburn and his daughter.

Throujijh life's loufj day, and death's dark night,
Oh, gentle Jesus, be our Light.'

Erica's breath came in gasps. To be reminded
then that life was long, and that death was
dark!

She thought she had never prayed, she never
had consciously prayed, but her whole life for
the past three years had been an unspoken
prayer. Never was there a more true desire
entirely unexpressed, than the desire which now
seemed to possess her whole being. The darkness
would soon hide for ever the being she
most loved. Oh, if she could but honestly think
that He who called Himself the Light of the
world was indeed still living, still ready to help !

But to allow her distress to gain the mastery
of her would certainly disturb and grieve her
either. With a great effort she stifled the sobs
which would rise in her throat, and waited in
rigid stillness. When the last notes of the
hymn had died away into silence, she turned to
look at her father. He had fallen asleep.

CHAPTER 11.

ANSWERED OR UNANSWERED?

Glory to God— to God !' he saith,

Knowledge by suffering entered,

And life is perfected by death.'

E. B. Browning.

'Mr. Raeburn is curiously like the celebrated
dog of nursery lore, who appertained to the
ancient and far-famed Mother Hubbard. All
the doctors gave him up, all the Secularists
prepared mourning garments, the printers were
meditating black borders for the Idol-Breaker,
the relative merits of burial and cremation were
already in discussion, when the dog — we beg
pardon — the leader of atheism, came to life
again.

She went to the joiner's to buy him a coffin,
But when she came back the dog was laughing."

History," as a great man was fond of remarking,
*' repeats itself." '

Auburn laughed heartily over the accounts
of his recovery in the comic papers. No one
better appreciated the very clever representation
of himself as a huge bull-dog starting up
into life while Britannia in widow's weeds
brought in a parish coffin. Erica would hardly
look at the thing, she had suffered too much to
be able to endure any jokes on the subject, and
she felt hurt and angry that Avhat had given
her such anguish should be turned into a foolish
jest.

At length, after many weeks of wearing
anxiety, she was able to breathe freely once
more, for her father steadily regained his
strength. The devotion of her whole time and
strength and thought to another had done
wonders for her, her character had strangely
deepened and mellowed. But no sooner was
she free to begin her ordinary life than new perplexities
beset her on every side.

During her own long illness she had of course
been debarred from attending any lectures or
meetings whatever. In the years following,

before she had quite regained her strength, she
had generally gone to hear her father, but had
never become again a regular attendant at the
lecture-hall. Now that she was quite well, however,
there was nothing to prevent her attending
as many lectures as she pleased, and, naturally,
her position as Luke Raeburn's daughter made
her presence desirable. So it came to pass one
Sunday evening in July that she happened to
be present at a lecture given by a Mr. Master-man.


He was a man whom they knew intimately.
Erica liked him sufficiently well in private life,
and he had been remarkably kind and helpful
at the time of her father's illness. It was some
years, however, since she had heard him lecture,
and this evening, by the virulence of his attack
on the character of Christ, he revealed to her
how much her ground had shifted since she had
last heard him. It was not that he was an
opponent of existing Christianity — her father
was that, she herself was that, and felt bound
to be as long as she considered it a lie — but Mr.
Masterman's attack seemed to her grossly unfair,
almost wilfully inaccurate, and, in addition,

Ills sarcasms and pleasantries seemed to her
odiously vulgar. He was answered by a most
miserable representative of Christianity, who
made a foolish, weak, blustering speech, and
tried to pay the atheist back in his own coin.
Erica felt wretched. She longed to get up and
speak herself, longing flatly to contradict the
champion of her own cause ; then grew frightened
at the strength of her feelings. Could
this be mere love of fair play and justice ? Washer
feeling merely that of a barrister who could
argue as well on one side as the other ? And
yet her displeasure in itself proved little or
nothing. Would not Charles Osmond be displeased
and indignant if he heard her father
unjustly spoken of? Yes, but then Luke Raeburn
was a living man, and Christ — was she
even sure that he had ever lived? Well, yes,
sure of that, but of how much more?

When the assembly broke up, her mind was ina
miserable chaos of doubt.

It was one of those delicious summer evenings
when even in East London the skies are
mellow and the air sweet and cool.

Oh, Tom, let us walk home!' she exclaimed,

longing for change of scene and exercise.

All rig] it,' he replied, ' I'll take you a shortcut,
if you don't mind a few back slums to
begin with.'

Now Erica was familiar enough with the
sight of poverty and squalor ; she had not lived
at the West End, where you may entirely forget
the existence of the poor. The knowledge
of evil had come to her of necessity much
earlier than to most girls, and to-night, as Tom
took her through a succession of narrow streets
and dirty courts, misery, and vice, and hopeless
degradation met her on every side. Swarms of
filthy little children wrangled and fought in the
gutters, drunken women shouted foul language
at one another — everywhere was wickedness —
everywhere want.

Her heart felt as if it would break. What
was to reach these poor, miserable fellow-creatures
of hers ? Who was to raise them out of
their horrible plight ? The coarse distortion and
the narrow contraction of Christ's teaching
which she had just heard, offered no remedy for
this evil. Nor could she think that secularism
would reach these. To understand secularism

you neel a fair share of intellect, — what intellect
would these poor creatures have? Why,
you might talk for ever of the ' good of
humanity,' and 'the duty of promoting the
general good,' and they would not so much as
grasp the idea of what * good ' was — they
would sink back to their animal-like state.

Instinctively her thoughts turned to the
Radical Reformer who, eighteen hundred years
ago, had lived among people just as wicked,
just as wretched. How had He worked? What
had He done? All through His words and
actions had sounded the one key-note, * Your
Father.' Always He had led them to look up to
a perfect Being who loved them, who was present
with them.

Was it possible that if Christians had indeed
followed their Leader and not obscured His
teaching with hideous accretions of doctrine
which He had assuredly never taught — was it
possible that the Christ-gospel in its original
simplicity would indeed be the remedy for all
evil?

They were coming into broader thoroughfares
now. A wailing child's voice fell on her

ear. A small crowd of disreputable idlers were
hanging round the closed doors of a public
bouse, waiting eagerly for the opening which
would take place at the close of service time.
The wailing child's voice grew more and more
piteous , Erica saw that it came from a poor
little half-clad creature of three years old who
was clinging to the skirts of a miserable-looking
woman with a shawl thrown over her
head. Just as she drew near, the woman, with
a fearful oath, tried to shake herself free of the
child ; then, with up-lifted arm, was about to
deal it a heavy blow when Erica caught her
hand as it descended, and held it fast in both
her hands.

Don't hurt him,' she said, ' please, don't hurt
him.'

She looked into the prematurely wrinkled
face, into the half dim eyes ; she held the
hand fast with a pressure not of force but of
entreaty. Then they passed on, the bystanders
shouting out the derisive chorus of ' Come to
Jesus !' with which London roughs delight in
mocking any passenger whom they suspect of
religious tendencies. In all her sadness Erica

VOL. II. D

could not help smiling to herself. That she,
an atheist, Luke Raeburn's daughter, should be
hooted at as a follower of Jesus !

In the meantime the woman she had spoken
to stood still staring after her. If an angel
had suddenly appeared to her, she could not
have been more startled. A human hand had
given her coarse, guilty, trembling hand such
a living pressure as it had never before received
; a pure, loving face had looked at her ; a
voice, which was trembling with earnestness
and full of the pathos of restrained tears, had
pleaded with her for her own child. The woman's
dormant motherhood sprang into life.
Yes, he was her own child after all. She did not
really want to hurt him, but a sort of demon
was inside her, the demon of drink, and sometimes
it made her almost mad. She looked
down now with love-cleared eyes at the little
crying child who still clung to her ragged skirt.
She stooped and picked him up. and Wrapped a
bit of her shawl round him. Presently after a
fearful struggle, she turned away from the
public house and carried the child home to bed.

The jeering chorus was soon checked, for

the shutters were taken down, and the doors
thrown wide, and light, and cheerfulness, and
shelter, and the drink they Avere all craving
for were temptingly displayed to draw in the
waiting idlers.

But the woman had gone home, and one
rather surly-looking man still leant against the
wall looking up the street where Tom and
Erica had disappeared.

'Blowed if that ain't a bit of pluck !' he said
to himself, and therewith fell into a reverie.

Tom talked of temperance work, about
which he was very eager, all the way to Guilford
Terrace. Erica, on reaching home, went
at once to her father's room. She found him
propped up with pillows in his arm-chair ; he
was still only well enough to attempt the lightest
of light literature, and was looking at some
old volumes of Punch which the Osmonds had
sent across.

You look tired, Eric !' he exclaimed. ^ Was
there a good attendance V

Very,' she replied, but so much less brightly
than usual that Raeburn at once divined that
something had annoyed her.

D 2

Was Mr. Masterman dull V

Not dull,' she replied, hesitatingly. Then,
with more than her usual vehemence, * Father,
I can't endure him ! I wish we didn't have
such men on our side ! He is so flippant, so
vulgar I'

Of course he never was a model of refinement,'
said Raeburn , * but he is effective — very
effective. It is impossible that you should like
his style ; he is, compared with you, what a
theatrical poster is to a delicate t>''te de Greuze,
How did he specially offend you to-night V

It was all hateful from the very beginning,*
said Erica. 'And sprinkled all through with
doubtful jests which of course pleased the
people. One despicable one about the Entry
into Jerusalem, which I believe he must have
got from Strauss. I'm sure Strauss quotes it.*

You see what displeases an educated mind,
wins a rough, uncultured one. We may not
altogether like it, but we must put up with it.
AVe need our Moods and Sakes as well as
the Christians.'

'But, father, he seems to me so unfair.'
Raeburn looked grave.

My dear,' he said, after a minute's thought,
you are not in the least bound to go to hear
Mr. Masterman again unless you like. But remember
this, little son Eric, we are only a strugling
minority, and let me quote to you one of
our Scottish proverbs — " Hawks should pick
out hawks' been." You are still a hawk, are
you not V

Of course,' she said, earnestly.

Well, then, be leal to your brother hawks.'

A cloud of perplexed thought stole over Erica's
face. Raeburn noted it and did his best to
divert her attention.

Comes he said, ' let us have a chapter of
Mark Twain to enliven us.'

But even Mark Twain was inadequate to
check the thought-struggle which had begun in
Erica's brain. Desperate earnestness would not
be conquered even by the most delightful of all
humorous fiction.

During the next few days this thought-struggle
raged. So great was Erica's fear of being
biassed either one way or the other that she
would not even hint at her perplexity either to
her father or to Charles Osmond. And now

the actual thoroughness of her character seemed
a hindrance.

She had imagination, quick perception of the
true and beautiful, and an immense amount of
steady commonsense. At the same time she
was almost as keen and quite as slow of conviction
as her father. Honestly dreading to
allow her poetic faculty due play, she kept her
imagination rigidly within the narrowest
bounds. She was thus honestly handicapped
in the race ; the honesty was, however, a little
mistaken and onesided, for not the most visa
imagination could be considered as a set-off to
the great, the incalculable counter-influence of
her whole education and surroundings. How
she got through that black struggle was sometimes
a mystery to her. At last one evening,
when the load had grown intolerable, she shut
herself into her own room, and, forgetful of all
lier logical arguments, spoke to the unknown
God. Her hopelessness, her desperation, drove
her as a last resource to cry to the possibly
Existent.

She stood by the open window of her little
room, with her arms on the window-sill, looking

out into the summer night, just as years before
she had stood when making up her mind to
exile and sacrifice. Then the wintry heavens
had been blacker and the stars brighter now
both sky and stars were dimmer because more
light. Over the roofs of the Guilford Square
houses she could see Charles' Wain and the
Pole star, but only faintly.

God !' she cried, 'I have no reason to think
that Thou art, except that there is such fearful
need of Thee. I can see no single proof in the
world that Thou art here. But if what Christ
said was true, then Thou must care that I
should know Thee for I must be Thy child. Oh,
God, if Thou art— oh, Father, if Thou art — help
us to know Thee ! show us what is true !'

She waited and waited, hoping for some sort
of answer, some thought, some conviction. But
she found, as many have found before her, that
the heavens were as brass.'

Of course it was no use !' she exclaimed, impatiently
, yet with a blankness of disappointment
which in itself proved the reality of her
expectations.

Just then she heard Tom's voice at the foot

of the stairs calling her; it seemed like the seal
to her impatient ' of course.' There was no
Unseen, no Eternal — of course not ! But there
was a busy everyday life to be lived.

All right,' she returned, impatiently, to Tom's
repeated calls ; * don't make such a noise or you'll
<listnrb father !'

'He is wide awake,' said Tom, 'and talking
to the Professor. Just look here, I couldn't help
fetching you down — did you ever see such a
speech in your life ! A regular brick he must
be!'

He held an evening paper in his hand. Erica
remembered that the debate was to be on a
question affecting all freethinkers. During the
discussion of this, some one had introduced a
reference to the Hyde Park meeting and to Mr.
Raeburn, and had been careful not to lose the
opportunity of making a spiteful and misleading
remark about the apostle of atheism. Tom
hurried her through this, however, to the speech
that followed it.

Wait a minute,' she said. ' Who is Mr.
Farrant ? I never heard of him before.'

'Member for Greyshot, elected last spring,

don't yon remember? One of the bj-e-electioiis.
Licked the Tories all to fits. This is his maiden
speech, and that makes it all the more plucky
ofhimtotake up the cudgels in our defence.
Here ! let me read it to you.'

With the force of one who is fired with a new
and hearty admiration, he read the report. The
speech was undoubtedly a fine one ; it was a
grand protest against intolerance,, a plea for
justice. The speaker had not hesitated for an
instant to raise his voice in behalf of a very
unpopular cause and his generous words, even
when read through the medium of an indifferent
newspaper report, awoke a strange thrill in
Erica's heart. The utter disregard of self, the
nobility of the whole speech struck her immensely.
The man who had dared to stand up for the
first time in Parliament and speak thus, must be
one in a thousand. Presently came the most
daring and disinterested touch of all.

The honourable member for Rilchester made
what I cannot but regard as a most misleading
and unnecessary remark with reference to the
recent occurrence in Hyde Park, and to Mr.
Raeburn. I listened to it with pain, for, if there

can be degrees in the absolute evil of injustice
and lack of charity, it seems to me that the
highest degree is reached in that uncharitableness
which tries to blacken the character of an

\^ opponent. Since the subject has been introduced,
the House will, I hope, bear with me if
for the sake of justice I for a moment allude to
a personal matter. Some years ago I myself
was an atheist, and I can only say that, speaking
now from the directly opposite standpoint, I
can still look back and thank Mr. "Raeburn most
heartily for the good service he did me. He was
the first man who ever showed me, by words and
example combined, that life is only noble when
lived for the race. The statement made by the
honourable member for Rilchester seems to meas
incorrect as it was uncalled for. Surely this

/ assembly will best prove its high character not
by loud religious protestations, not by supporting
a narrow, Pharisaical measure, but by impartiality,
by perfect justice, by the manifestation
in deed and word of that broad-hearted charity,
that universal brotherliness, which alone deserves

the name of Christianity.'

The manifestation of the speaker's generosity

and universal brotherliness came like a light to
Erica's darkness. It did not end her struggle,
but it did end her despair. A faint, indefinable
hope rose in her heart.

Mr. Farrant's maiden speech made a considerable
stir ; it met with some praise and much
blame. Erica learnt from one of the papers
that he was Mr. Donovan Farrant, and at once
felt convinced that he was the ' Donovan ' whom
both Charles Osmond and Brian had mentioned
to her. She seemed to know a good deal
about him. Probably they had never told her
his surname, because they knew that some day
he would be a public character. With instinctive
delicacy she refrained from making any
reference to his speech, or any inquiry as to his
identity with the ' Donovan ^ of whose inner life
she had heard. Very soon after that, too, she
went down to the seaside with her father, and
when they came back to town the Osmonds had
gone abroad, so it was not until the autumn that
they again met.

Her stay at Codrington wonderfully refreshed
her ; it was the first time in her life that she
had taken a thorough holiday, with change of

scene and restful idleness to complete it. The
time was outwardly uneventful enough, but her
father grew strong in body and she grew strong
in mind.

One absurd little incident she often laughed
over afterwards. It happened that in the
On-looser there was a quotation from some unnamed
mediaeval writer ; she and her father had
a discussion as to whom it could be, Raeburn
maintaining that it was Thomas a Kempis.
Ravishing to verify it, Erica went to a booksellers'
and asked for the ' Imitation of Christ.' A
rather prim-looking dame presided behind the
counter.

'We haven't that book, miss she said, *it's
quite out of fashion now.'

I agree with you," said Erica, greatly amused.
*It must be quite out of fashion, for I scarcely
know half-a-dozen people who practise it.'

However, a second shop appeared to think
differently, for it had Thomas a Kempis in every
conceivable size, shape, and binding. Erica
]bought a little sixpenny copy and went back
to the beach, where she made her father laugh
over her story.

They verified the quotation, and by-and-by
Erica began to read the book. On the very
first page she came to words which made her
pause and relapse into a deep reverie.

But he who would fully and feelingly
understand the words of Christ, must study to
make his whole life conformable to that of
Christ.'

The thought linked itself in her mind with
some words of John Stuart Mill's which she had
heard quoted till she was almost weary of
them.

Nor even now would it be easy, even for an
unbeliever, to find a better translation of the
rule of virtue from the abstract into the concrete,
than to endeavour so to live that Christ
would approve our life.'

While she was still musing, a sound of piteous
crying attracted her notice. Looking up she
saw a tiny child wandering along the beach,
trailing a wooden spade after and her sobbing as
if her heart would break. In a moment Erica
was beside hers coaxing and consoling, but at
last, finding it impossible to draw forth an intelligible
word from the sobs and tears, she

took the little thing in her arms and carried
her to her father, llaeburn was a great
child-lover, and had a habit of carrying goodies
in his pocket, much to the satisfaction of all the
children \vitli Avlioni he was brought in contact.
lie produced a bit of butter-scotch, which
restored the small maiden's serenity for a
minute.

'She must have lost her way,' he said,
glancing from the lovely little tear-stained face
to the thinly-shod feet and unloved hands of
the little one. The butter-scotch had won her
heart. Presently she volunteered a remark,

'Dolly putted on her own hat. Dolly wanted
to dig all alone. Dolly Ian away.'

Where is your home V asked Erica.

]vie don't know I me don't know !' cried Dolly,
bursting into tears again, and hiding her
face on Raeburn's coat. ' Father ! whither, Dolly
wants father.'

We will come and look for him,' said Erica,
but you must stop crying, and you know
your father will bu sure to come and look foi-you;


At this the little one checked her tears, and

looked up as if expecting to see him close by.

He isn't there,' she said, piteously.

Come and let us look for him,' said Erica.

Dolly jumped up , thrust her little hand into
Erica's, and toiled up the steep beach. They
had reached the road, and Erica paused fora
moment, wondering which direction they had
better take, when a voice behind her made her
start.

Why, Dorothy — little one — we've been hunting
for you everywhere !'

Dolly let go Erica's hand, and with a glad
cry rushed into the arms of a tall, dark, rather
foreign-looking man, who caught her up and
held her closely.

He turned to Erica and thanked her very
warmly for her help. Erica thought his face the
noblest she had ever seen.

CHAPTER III.

AT T U E MUSEUM.

Methought I heard one calling, ' Child,'
And I replied, ' My Lord !'

George Herbert.

A FAVOURITE pastime with couiitiy children is
to watch the gradual jijrowth of the acorn into
the oak-tree. They will suspend the acorn in a
glass of water and watch the slow progress
during long months. First one tiny white
thread is put forth, then another, until at length
the glass is almost filled with a tangle of white
fibres, a sturdy little stem raises itself up, and
the baby tree, if it is to live, must be at once
transplanted into good soil. The process maybe
botanically interesting, but there is something
a little sickly about it, too — there is a feeling
that, after all, the acorn would have done

better in its natural ground hidden away in
darkness.

And, if we have this feeling with regard to
vegetable growth, how much more with regard
to spiritual growth ! To attempt to set up the
gradually awakening spirit in an apparatus where
it might be the observed of all observers would
be at once repulsive and presumptuous. Happily,
it is impossible. We may trace influences and
suggestions, just as we may note the rain or
drought, the heat or cold that affect vegetable
growth, but the actual birth is ever hidden.

To attempt even to shadow forth Erica's
growth during the next year would be worse
than presumptuous. As to her outward life it
was not greatly changed, only intensified.
October always began their busiest six months.
There was the night school at which she was
able to work again indefatigably. There were
lectures to be attended. Above all, there was
an ever increasing amount of work to be done
for her father. In all the positive and constructive
side of Secularism, in all the efforts
made by it to better humanity, she took an enthusiastic
share. Naturally she did not see so

VOL. II. E

much of Charles Osmond now that she was
strong again. In the press of business, in the
hard, everyday h'fe there was little time for
discussion. They met frequently, but never for
one of their long tete-a-tetes. Perhaps Erica
purposely avoided them. She was strangely
different now from the little impetuous girl who
had come to his study years ago, trembling with
anger at the Lady Superintendent's insult. Insults
had since then, alas, become so familiar to
her, that she had acquired a sort of patient
dignity of endurance, infinitely sad to watch in
such a young girl.

One morning in early June, just a year after
the memorable Hyde Park meeting, Charles
Osmond happened to be returning from the
death-bed of one of his parishioners when, at
the corner of Guilford Square, he met Erica. It
might have been in part the contrast with the
sad and painful scene ho had just quitted, but
he thought she had never before looked so
beautiful. Iter face seemed to have taken to
itself trio freshness and the glow of the summer
morning.

You are early abroad he said, feeling older

and greyer and more tired than ever as he
paused to speak to her.

I am off to the museum to read,' she said, ^ I
like to get there by nine, then you don't have
to wait such an age for your books ; I can't bear
waiting.'

What are you at work upon now V

Oh, to-day for the last time I am going to
hunt up particulars about Livingstone. Hazel-dine
was very anxious that a series of papers on
his life should be written for our people. What
a grand fellow he was !'

I heard a characteristic anecdote of him the
other day said Charles Osmond. ' He was
walking beside one of the African lakes which
he had discovered, when suddenly there dawned
on him a new meaning to long familiar words.
The blood of Christ !" he exclaimed. " That
must be Charity ! The blood of Christ — that
must be Charity !" A beautiful thought, too
seldom practically taught.'

Erica looked grave.

'Characteristic, certainly, of his broad-heartiness,
but I don't think that anecdote will do
for readers of the Idol-Breaker.' Then, looking

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

up at Charles Osmond, she added, in a rather
lower tone, ' Do you know, I had no idea when
I began what a difficult task I had got. I
thought in such an active life as that there
would be little difficulty in keeping the religious
part away from the secular, but it is wonderful
how Livingstone contrives to mix them up.'

You see, if Christianity be true, it must, as
you say, "mix up'' with everything. There
should be no rigid distinction between secular
and religious,' said Charles Osmond.

*If it is true,' said Erica, suddenly, and with
seeming irrelevance, * then sooner or later we
must learn it to be so. Truth must win in the
end. But it is worse to wait for perfect certainty
than for books at the museum !' she added,
laughing. ' It is five minutes to nine — I
shall be late.'

Charles Osmond walked home thoughtfully ;
the meeting had somehow cheered him.

Absolute conviction that truth must out —
that truth must make itself perceptible I I've
not often come across a more beautiful faith
than that. Yes, little Undine, right you are!
*' Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall

make you free." Here or there, here or there —

All things come round to him who will but wait."

There's one for yourself, Charles Osmond!
None of your hurrying and meddling now,
old man ! you've just got to leave it to your
betters.'

Soliloquising after this fashion he reached
home, and was not sorry to find his breakfast
awaiting him, for he had been up the greater
part of the night.

The great domed library of the British
Museum had become very homelike to Erica, it
was her ideal of comfort ; she went there whenever
she wanted quiet, for in the small and
crowded lodgings she could never be secure
from interruptions, and interruptions resulted in
bad work. There was something, too, in the
atmosphere of the museum which seemed to
help her. She liked the perfect stillness, she
liked the presence of all the books. Above
all, too, she liked the consciousness of possession.
There was no narrow exclusiveness
about this place, no ose could look askance at
her here. The place belonged to the people, and

therefore belonged to her; she — heretic and atheist
as she was — had as much share in the ownership
as the highest in the land. She had her own
peculiar nook over by the encyclopedias, and,
being always an early comer, seldom failed to
secure her own particular chair and desk.

On this morning she took her place, as she
had done hundreds of times before and was
soon hard at work. She was finishing her last
paper on Livingstone when a book she had
ordered was deposited on her desk by one of
the noiseless attendants. She wanted it to
verify one or two dates, and she half thought
she would try to hunt up Charles Osmond's
anecdote. In order to write her series of papers,
she had been obliged to study the character of
the great explorer pretty thoroughly. She had
always been able to see the nobility even of
those differing most widely from herself in
point of creed, and the great beauty of Livingstone's
character had impressed her very much.
To-day she happened to open on an entry in
his journal which seemed particularly characteristic
of the man. He was in great danger
from the hostile tribes at the union of the Zama

and Loangwa^ and there was something
about his spontaneous utterance which appealed
very strongly to Erica.

'Felt much turmoil of spirit in view of having
all my plans for the welfare of this great
legion and teeming population knocked on the
head by savages tomorrow. But I read that
Jesus came and said, "All power is given unto
me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore
and teach all nations, and lo ! I am with you
alway, even unto the end of the world." It is
the word of a gentleman of the most sacred and
strictest honour, and there's an end on't. I
will not cross furtively' by night as I intended.
. . Nay, verily, I shall take observations for
latitude and longitude to-night, though they
may be the last.'

The courage, the daring, the perseverance,
the intense faith of the man shone out in these
few sentences. Was it indeed a delusion, such
practical faith as that ?

Blackness of darkness seemed to hem her in.
She struggled through it once more by the one
gleam of certainty which had come to her
in the past year. Truth must be self-revealing.

Sooner or later, if she were honest, if she did
not shut her mind deliberately up with the
assurance, — ' You have thought out these matters
fully and fairly ; enough ! let us now rest
content,' — if she were indeed a true ' Freethinker,'
she must know ! And even as that
conviction returned to her the words, acquaint,
half-pathetic, came to her mind, — * It is
the word of a gentleman of the most sacred
and strictest honour, and there's an end on't.'

Yes, there would ' be an end on't,' if she
could feel sure that he, too, was not deluded !

She turned over the pages of the book, and
towards the end found a copy of the inscription
on Livingstone's tomb. Her eye fell on the
words, *And other sheep I have which are not
of this fold; them also I must bring, and they
shall hear My voice.'

Somehow the mention of the lost sheep
brought to her mind the little lost child on the
beach at Codrington — Dolly, who had ' putted
on' her own hat, who had wanted to be independent,
and to dig by herself. She had run
any from home, and could not find the way
back. What a steep climb they had had up

the beach ! — how the little thing's tiny feet had
slipped and stumbled over the stones, and, just
Avhen they were most perplexed, the father had
found them !

Exactly how it all came to her, Erica never
knew, nor could she ever put into words the
story of the next few moments. When ' God's
great sunrise ' finds us out, we have need of
something higher than human speech — there
are no words for it. At the utmost she could
only say that it was like coming out of the
twilight, that it seemed as if she were immersed
in a great wave of all-pervading light.

All in a moment the Christ who had been to
her merely a noble character of ancient history
seemed to become to her the most real and
living of all living realities. Even her own
existence seemed to fade into a vague and
misty shadow in comparison with the intensity
of this new consciousness — this conviction of
His being which surrounded her — which she
knew, indeed, to be ' way, and truth, and life.'
They shall hear My voice.' In the silence of
waiting, in the faithfulness of honest searching,
Erica for the first time in her life heard it.

Yes, she had been right — truth was self-revealing.
A few minutes ago these words had been
to her an unfulfilled, a vain promise — the
speaker, broad-hearted and loving as he was,
had doubtless been deluded. But now the
voice spoke to her, called her by name, told
her what she wanted.

Dolly ' became to her a parable of life. She
had been like that little child ; for years and
years she had been toiling up over rough stones
and slippery pebbles, but at last she had heard
the voice. Was this the coming to the
Father?

That which often appears sudden and unaccountable
is, if we did but know it, a slow,
beautiful evolution. It was now very nearly
seven years since the autumn afternoon when
the man, ' too nice to be a clergyman,' and
not a bit like a Christian,' had come to Erica's
lime, had shown her that at least one of them
practised the universal brotherliness which almost
all preached. It was nearly seven years
since words of absolute conviction, words of
love and power, had first sounded forth from
Christian lips in her father's lecture-hall, and

had awakened in her mind that miserably uncomfortable
question — ^ supposing Christianity
should be true?'

All the most beautiful influences are quiet ;
only the destructive agencies, the stormy wind,
the heavy' rain and hail, are noisy. Love of
the deepest sort is wordless, the sunshine steals
down silently, the dew falls noiselessly, and
the communion of spirit with spirit is calmer
and quieter than anything else in the world —
quiet as the spontaneous turning of the sunflower
to the sun when the heavy clouds have
passed away, and the light and warmth reveal
themselves. The subdued rustle of leaves, the
hushed footsteps sounded as usual in the great
library, but Erica was beyond the perception of
either place or time.

Presently she was recalled by the arrival of
another student, who took the chair next to
hers — a little deformed man, with a face which
looked prematurely old, and sad, restless eyes.
A few hours before she would have regarded
him with a sort of shuddering compassion ;
now with the compassion there came to her the
thought of compensation which even here and

DOW might make the poor fellow happy. Was
lie not immortal ? Might he not here and now
learn what she had just learnt, gain that unspeakable
joy ? and might not the knowledge
goon growing and increasing for ever ? She
took up her pen once more, verified the dates,
rolled up her manuscript, and, with one look at
Livingstone's journal, returned it to the clerk
and left the library.

It was like coming into a new world ; even
dingy Bloomsbury seemed beautiful. Her face
Alas BO bright, so like the face of a happy child,
that more than one passer-by was startled by
it, lifted for a moment from sordid cares into a
purer atmosphere. She felt a longing to speak
to some one who would understand her new
happiness. She had reached Guilford Square,
and looked doubtfully across to the Osmonds'
house. They would understand ! But no —
she must tell her father first. And then, with
a fearful pang, she realised what her new conviction
meant. It meant bringing the sword
into her father's house ; it meant grieving him
with a life-long grief; it^iueant leaving the
persecuted minority, and going over to the

triumphant majority; it meant unmitigated
pain to all those she loved best.

Erica had had her full share of pain, but
never had she known anything so agonising as
that moment's sharp revulsion. Mechanically
she walked on until she reached home ; nobody
was in. She looked into the little sitting-room,
but only Friskarina sat purring on the rug.
The table was strewn with the Saturday papers ;
the mid-day post had just come. She turned
over the letters, and found one for herself in
her father's hand writing. It was the one thing
needed to complete the realisation of her pain.
She snatched it up with a stifled sob, ran upstairs
to her room, and threw herself down on
the bed in a silent agony.

A new joy had come to her which her father
could not share; a joy which he would call a
delusion, which he spent great part of his life in
combating. To tell him that she was convinced
of the truth of Christianity — why, it would
almost break his heart !

And yet she must inflict this terrible pain.
Her nature was far^oo noble to have dreamed
for a single instant of temporizing, of keeping

her thoughts to herself. A Raeburii was not
likely to fail either in courage or in honesty ;
but, with her courage and honesty, Erica had
the viuHn-likc sensitiveness of nature which
Eric Haeberlein had noticed even in her childhood.
She saw in the future all the pain she
must bring to her whither, intensified by her own
sensitiveness. She knew so well what her feelings
would have been but a short time ago, if
anyone she greatly loved had * fallen back ' into
Christianity. How could she tell him '^ How
could she !

Yet it was a thing which must be done.
Should she write to him ? No, the letter might
reach him when he was tired and worried — yet,
to speak would be more painful.

She got up, and went to the window, and let
the summer wind blow on her heated forehead.
The world had seemed to her just before one
glorious presence-chamber, full of sunshine and
rejoicing. But already the shadow of a lifelong
pain had stilled on her heart. A revealed
Christ meant also a revealed cross, and a right
heavy one.

It was only by degrees that she grew strong

again, and Livingstone's text came back to her
once more, ' I am with you alway.'

By and by, she opened her father's letter.
It ran as follows : —

'I have just remembered that Monday will be
your birthday. Let us spend it together, little
son Eric ! A few days at Codrington would do
us both good, and I have a tolerably leisure
week. If you can come down on Saturday
afternoon, so much the better. I will meet you
there, if you will telegraph reply as soon as
you get this. I have three lectures at Helm-stone
on Sunday, but you will probably prefer
a quiet day by the sea. Bring me "Westcott's
new book, and you might put in the chisel
and hammer. We will do a little apologising
for the professor, if we have time. Meeting
here last night a great success.

Your loving father,

*LuKE Raeburn.'

'He is only thinking how he can give me
pleasure!' sighed Erica. 'And I have nothing
to give him but pain !'

She went at once, however, for the ' Bradshaw,'
and looked out the afternoon trains to
Codrington.

CHAPTER IV.

STORM.

And seems she mid deep silence to a strain
To listen, which the soul alone can know,
Saying, ' Fear nought, for Jesus came on earth,
Jesus of endless joys the wide, deep sea,
To ease each heavy load of mortal birth.
His waters ever clearest, sweetest be
To him who in a lonely bark drifts forth
On His great deeps of goodness trustfully.'

From Victoria Colonia.

CODRINGTON was one of the very few seaside
places within fairly easy reach of London which
had not been vulgarised into an ordinary .
It was a primitive little place, with
one good, old-established hotel, and a limited
number of villas and lodging-houses, which only
served as a sort of ornamental fringe to the
picturesque little fishing-town.

VOL. II. P

The fact was, that it was just midway between
two large and deservedly popular resorts,
and so it had been overlooked, and to the regret
of the thrifty inhabitants, and the satisfaction of
the visitors who came there for quiet, its peaceful
streets and its stony beach were never invaded
by excursionists. No cockneys came
down for the Sunday to eat shrimps ; the
shrimps were sent away by train to the more
favoured watering-places, and the Codrington
shopkeepers shook their heads, and gave up
expecting to make a fortune in such a conservative
little place. Erica said it reminded her of
the dormouse in 'Alice in Wonderland,' tyrannised
over by the hatter on one side and the
March hare on the other, and eventually put
head foremost into the teapot. Certainly Helm-stone
on the cast and Westport on the west
had managed to eclipse it altogether, and its
peaceful sleepiness made the dormouse comparison
by no means inapt.

Tt all looked wonderfully unchanged as she
walked from the station that summer afternoon
with her father. The square, grey tower of St.
Oswald's Church, the little, winding, irregular

streets, the very shop-windows seemed quite
unaltered,, while at every turn familiar faces
came into sight. The shrewd old sailor with the
telescope, the prim old lady at the bookseller's,
who had pronounced the * Imitation of Christ '
to be quite out of fashion, the sturdy milkman,
With white smock frock, and bright pails fastened
to a wooden yoke, and the coast-guardsman,
who was always whistling - Tom Bowling.'

The sea was as calm as a mill-pond ; Raeburn
suggested an hour or two on the water, and
Erica, who was fond of boating, gladly assented.
She had made up her mind not to speak to her
father that evening; he had a very hard day's
work before him on the Sunday ; they must
have these few hours in peace. She did not in
the least dread any subject coming up which
might put her into difficulty, for, on the rare
days when her father allowed himself any recreation,
he entirely banished all controversial
topics from his mind. He asked no single
question relating to the work or to business of
any kind, but gave himself up to the enjoyment
of a much needed rest and relaxation. He
seemed in excellent spirits, and Erica herself

y2

would have been raptiirouslyhappy if she had not
been haunted by the thon<>;ht of the pain that
awaited him. She knew that this was the last
evening she and her father should ever spend
together in the old perfect confidence ; division
the most painful of all divisions — lay before
them.

The next day she was left to herself. She
would not go to the old grey-towered church ;
though as an atheist she had gone to one or
two churches to look and listen, she felt that
she could not honourably go as a worshipper
till she had spoken to her whither. So she
wandered about on the shore, and in the restful
quiet learnt more, and grew stronger, and
conquered the dread of the morrow. She did
not see her father again that day, for he could
not get back from Headstone till a late train,
and she had promised not to sit up for him.

The morning of her twenty-third birthday
was bright and sunshiny ; she had slept well,
but awoke with the oppressive consciousness
that a terribly hard duty lay before her. When
she came down there was a serious look in her
eyes which did not escape Raeburu's keen observation.

He was down before her, and had
been out already, for he had managed somehow
to procure a lovely handful of red and white
roses and mignonette.

All good wishes for your birthday, and
■" sweets to the sweet," as some one remarked on
a more funereal occasion,' he said, stooping to
kiss her. ' Dear little son Eric, it is very jolly to
have you to myself for once ! No disrespect to
Aunt Jean and old Tom, but two is company !'

AVhat lovely flowers !' exclaimed Erica.
'How good of you! Where did they come
from T

I made love to old Nicholls, the florist, to let
me gather them myself; he was very anxious
to make a gorgeous arrangement done up in
white paper with a lace edge, and thought mea
fearful Goth for preferring this disorderly
bunch.'

They sat down to breakfast ; afterwards, the
morning papers came in, and Raeburn disappeared
behind the Bail}/ Review, while the
servant cleared the table. Erica stood by the
open French window ; she knew that in a few
minutes she must speak, and how to get what

she had to say into words she did not know.
Her heart beat so fast that she felt almost
choked. In a sort of dream of pain she
watched the passers-by — happy-looking girls
going down to bathe, children with spades
and pails. Everything seemed so tranquil, so
ordinary, while before her lay a duty which
must change her whole world !

'Not much news,' said Raeburn, coming towards
her as the servant left the room. ' For
dulness commend me to a Monday paper ! Well,
Eric, how are we to spend your twenty-third
birthday? To think that I have actually a
child of twenty-three ! Why, I ought to feel
an old patriarch, and, in spite of white hair
and life-long badgering, T don't, you know !
Come, what shall we do ? Where would you
like to go V

Father,' said Erica, * I want first to have a
talk With you. I — I have something to tell
you.'

There was no longer any mistaking that the
seriousness meant some kind of trouble. return
]put his ana round her.

Why, my little girl,' he said, tenderly.

You are trembling all over I What is the
matter V

The matter is that what I have to say will
pain yon, and it half kills me to do that. But
there is no choice — tell you I must. You would
not wish me not to be true, not to be honest.'

Utter perplexity filled Raeburn's mind. What
phantom trouble was threatening him? Had
she been commissioned to tell him of some untoward
event? — some business calamity? Had
she fallen in love with some one he could not
permit her to marry ? He looked questioning
at her, but her expression only perplexed him
still more ; she was trembling no longer, and
her eyes were clear and bright, there was a
strong look about her whole face.

Father,' she said, quietly, ' T have learnt to
believe in Jesus Christ.'

He wrenched away his arm ; he started back
from her as if she had stabbed him. For a
minute he looked perfectly dazed.

At last, after a silence which seemed to each
of them age-long, he spoke in the agitated
voice of one who has just received a great
blow.

Do you know what you are saying, Erica?
Do you know wluit such a confession as you
have made will involve? Do you mean that
you accept the Avhole of Christ's teaching V

Yes she replied, firmly, ' I do.'

You intend to turn Christian V

Yes, to try to.'

How long have you and Mr. Osmond been
concocting this?'

I don't know what you mean,' said Erica,
terribly wounded by his tone.

*Did he send you down here to tell me V

'Mr. Osmond knows nothing about it,' said
Erica. ' How could I tell anyone before you,
father !'

Raeburn was touched by this. He took
several turns up and down the room before
speaking again, but the more he grasped the
idea the deeper grew his grief and the hotter his
auger. He was a man of iron will, however,
and he kept both under. Wien at length he
did speak, his voice was quiet and cold and
repressed.

*Sit down,' he said, motioning her to a chair.
This is not a subject that we can dismiss in

five minutes' talk. I must hear your reasons.
We will put aside all personal considerations.
I will consider you just as an ordinary opponent.'


His coldness chilled her to the heart. Was
it always to be like this ? How could she
possibly endure it I How was she to answer
his questions, — how was she to vindicate her
faith, when the mere tone of his voice seemed
to paralyse her heart? He was indeed treating
her with the cold formality of an opponent,
but never for a single instant could she forget
that he was her father — the being she loved
best in the whole world.

But Ei-mica was brave and true ; she knew that
this was a crisis in their lives, and, thrusting
down her own personal pain, she forced herself
to give her whole heart and mind to the searching
and perplexing questions with which her
father intended to test the reality of her convictions.
Had she been unaccustomed to his
nif)de of attack, he would have hopelessly silenced
her, as far as argument goes, in half-an-hour ;
but not only was Erica's faith perfectly real, but
she had, as it were, herself traversed the whole

of his objections and difficulties. Though far
from imagining that she understood everything,
she had yet so firmly grasped the innermost
truth that all details as yet outside her visi(jii
were to her no longer hindrances and bugbears,
but so many new possibilities — other hopes of
fresh manifestations of God.

She held her ground well, and every minute
Raeburn realised more keenly that whatever
hopes he had entertained of re-convincing her
were futile. What made it all the more painful
to him was that the thoroughness of the training
he had given her now only told against him,
and the argument which he earned on in a cold,
metallic voice was really piercing his very heart,
for it was like arguing against another self, the
dearest part of himself gone over to the enemy's
side.

At last he saw that argument was useless,
and then, in this grief and despair, he did for a
time lose his self-control. Erica had often fell
sorry for the poor creatures who had to bear the
brunt of her father's scathing sarcasm. But
platform irony Alas a trills to the torrent which
bore down upon her lo-day. When a strongman

does lose his restraint upon himself, the
result is terrific. Raebnrn had never sufficiently-cared
for an adversary as to be moved beyond
an anger which could be restricted and held
Within due bounds ; he of course cared more for
the success of his cause and his own dignity.
But now his love drove him to despair ; his intolerable
grief at the thought of having an
opponent in his own child burst all restraining
bonds. Wounded to the quick, he who had
never in his life spoken a harsh word to his
child now poured forth such a storm of anger,
and sarcasm, and bitter reproach, as might have
made even an uninterested bystander tremble.

Had Erica made any appeal, had she even
begun to cry, his chivalry would have been
touched ; he would have recognised her weakness,
and regained his self-control. But she
was not weak, she was strong — she was his
other self gone over to the opposite side : that
was what almost maddened him. The torrent
bore down upon her, and she spoke not a word,
but just sat still and endured. Only, as the
words grew more bitter and more wounding,
her lips grew white, her hands were locked

more tightly together. At Last it ended.

You have cheated yourself into this belief,*
said Raeburii, 'you have given me the most
bitter grief and disappointment of my Avhole
life. Have you anything else you wish to say
to me V

Nothing,' replied Plrica, not daring to venture
more ; for, if she had tried to speak, she
knew she must have burst into tears.

But there was as much pain expressed in her
A'oice as she spoke that one word, as there had
been in all her fathers outburst. It appealed
to him at once. He said no more, but stepped
out of the French window, and began to pace
to and fro under the verandah.

Erica did not stir ; she was like one crushed.
Sad and harassed as her life had been, it yet
seemed to her that she had never known such
indescribably bitter pain. The outside world
looked bright and sunshiny ; she could see the
"waves breaking on the shore, while beyond,
Failing out into the wide expanse, was a brown-failed
fishing-boat. Every now and then her
vision was interrupted by a tall darlc figure
pacing to and fro ; every now and alien the sunlight

glinted on snow-white hair, and then a
fresh stab of pain awoke in her heart.

The brown sailed fishing-boat dwindled into
a tiny dark spot on the horizon, the sea tossed
and foamed and sparkled in the sunshine. Erica
turned away ; she could not bear to look at it,
for just now it seemed to her merely the type
of the terrible separation which had arisen between
herself and her father. She felt as if she
where being borne away in the little fishing-boat,
while he was left on the land, and the
distance between them slowly widened and
widened.

All through that grievous conversation she had
held in her hand a little bit of mignonette. She
had held it unconsciously ; it was withered and
drooping, its sweetness seemed to her now sickly
and hateful. She identified it nth her pain,
and years after the smell of mignonette was
intolerable to her. She would have thrown it
away, but remembered that her father had given
it her. And then, with the recollection of her
birthday gift, came the realisation of all the long-years
of unbroken and perfect love, so rudely
interrupted to-day. Was it always to be like

this? must they drift further and further apart?
Her heai-t was almost breaking ; she had endured
to the very uttermost, when at length
comfort came. The sword had only come to
bring the higher peace. No tenable sea of
division could part those whom love could bind
together. The peace of God stole once more
into her heart.

How loud soe'er the "Nvorkl may roar,
We know love will be conqueror.'

Meanwhile Raeburn paced to and fro in grievous
pain. The fact that his pain could scarcely
perhaps have been comprehended by the generality
of people did not make it less real or less
hard to bear. A really honest atheist, who is
convinced that Christianity is false and misleading,
suffers as much at the sight of what he
consider's a mischievous belief as a Christian
would suffer while watching a service in some
heathen temple. Rather his pain would be
gi-eater, for his belief in the gradual progress
of his creed is shadowy and dim compared with
the Christian's conviction that the * Savior* of
all men ' exists.

Once, some years before, a very able man,

one of his most devoted followers, had ' fallen
back' into Christianity. That had been a bitter
disappointment ; bnt that his own child, whom
he loved more than anything in the world,
should have forsaken him and gone over to the
enemy, was a grief well-nigh intolerable. It
was a grief he had never for one moment
contemplated.

Could anything be more improbable than
that Erica, carefully trained as she had been,
should relapse so strangely'? Her whole life
had been spent among atheists ; there was nota
single objection to Christianity which had not
been placed before her. She had read much,
thought much; she had worked indefatigably
to aid the cause. Again and again she had
braved personal insult and wounding injustice
as an atheist. She had voluntarily gone into
exile to help her father in his difficulties.
Through the shameful injustice of a Christian,
she had missed the last years of her mother's
life, and had been absent from her death-bed.
She had borne on behalf of her father's cause a
thousand irritating privations, a thousand harassing
cares ; she had been hard-working, and

Ideal, ;iikI devoted; and now all al on. x- julie
had tiu'ued completely round, and placed herself
in the opposing ranks !

Raebnrn had all his life been fighting against
desperate odds, and in the conflict he had lost
well-nigh everything. He had lost his home
long ago, he had lost his father's good-will, he
had lost the whole of his inheritance ; he had
lost health, and strength, and reputation, and
money; he had lost all the lesser comforts of
life ; and now he said to himself that he was to
lose his dearest treasure of all, his child.

Bitter, hopeless, life-long division had arisen
between them. For twenty-three years he had
loved her as truly as ever father loved child,
and this was his reward I A miserable sense of
isolation arose in his heart. Erica had been so
much to him — how could he live Without her?
The muscles of his face quivered with emotion :
he clenched his hands almost fiercely.

Then he tortured himself by letting his
thoughts wander back to the past. That very
day years ago, when he had first learnt what
fatherhood meant; the pride of watching his
little girl as the years rolled on; the terrible

anxiety of one long and dangerous illness sh
had passed through — how well he remembered
the time ! They were very poor, could afford
no expensive luxuries ; he had shared the
nursing with his wife. One night he remembered
toiling away with his pen while the sick
child was actually on his knee ; he always
fancied that the pamphlet he had then been at
work on was more bitterly sarcastic than anything
he had ever written. Then on once more
into years of desperately hard work and disappointingly
small results, embittered by persecution,
crippled by penalties and never-ending*
litigation ; but always there had been the
little child waiting for him at home, who by
her ladylike freedom from care could make
him smile when he was overwhelmed with
anxiety. How could he ever have endured the
bitter obloquy, the slanderous attacks, the
countless indignities which had met him on all
sides, if there had not been one little child who
adored him, who followed him about like a
shadow, who loved him and trusted him utterly?

Busy as his life had been, burdened as he had
been for years with twice as much work as he

VOL. II. G

could get through, the child had never been
crowded out of his life. Even as a little thing
of four years old, Erica had been quite content
to sit on the floor in his study by the hour together,
quietly amusing herself by cutting old
newspapers into fantastic shapes, or by drawing
impossible cats and dogs and horses on the
margins. She had never disturbed him ; she
used to talk to herself in whispers.

Are you happy, little one ?' he used to ask
from time to time, with a sort of passionate
desire that she should enjoy her unconscious
childhood, foreseeing care and trouble for her
in the future.

'Yes, very happy,' had been the invariable
response ; and generally Erica Avould avail herself
of the interruption to ask his opinion about
some square-headed cat, "with eyes askew and
an astonishing number of legs, which she had
just drawn. Then would come what she called
a * bear s hug,' after which silence reigned again
in the study, while Raeburn would go on writing
some argumentative pamphlet, hard and
clear as crystal, his heart warmed by the little
child's love, the remains of a smile lingering

about his lips at the recollection of the square-headed
cat.

And the years passed on, and every year
deepened and strengthened their love. And by
slow degrees he had watched the development
of her mind ; had gloried in her quick perception
; had learnt to come to her for a second
opinion every now and then ; had felt proud
of her commonsense, her thoughtful judgments ;
had delighted in her enthusiastic, loving help.
AU this was ended now. Strange that, just ashe
hoped most from her, she should fail him !
It was a repetition of his own early history
exactly reversed. His thoughts went back to
his father's study in the old Scottish parsonage.
He remembered a long, fierce argument; he
remembered a storm of abusive anger, and a
furious dismissal from the house. The old pain
came back to him vividly

And she loves me fifty thousand times more
than 1 ever loved my father,' he reflected.
And, though 1 was not abusive, I was hard on
her. And, however mistaken, she was very
brave, very honest ! Oh, I was cruel to her —
harsh, and hateful ! My little child ! my poor

g2

little child ! It shall not — it cannot divide us.
1 am hci'8, and she is mine — nothing can ever
alter that.'

He turned, and went back into the room.
Never had he looked grander than at that
minute ; this man who could hold thousands in
breathless attention — this man who was more
passionately loved by his friends, more passionately
hated by his enemies than almost any
man in England ! — he was just the ideal father.

Erica had not stirred, she was leaning back in
her chair, looking very still and white. He
came close to her.

Little son Eric !' he said, with a whole world
of love in his tone.

She sprang up, and wreathed her arms round
his neck.

By-and-by, they began to talk in low tones,
to map out and piece together as well as they
could the future life, which was inevitably
severed iVom the past by a deep gulf. They
spoke of the work wliicli they could still sliarc,
of the interests they should still have in onion.
It was very sad work fur Erica — infinitely
sadder for llaeburu ; but they were both of

them brave and noble souls, and they loved
each other, and so could get above the sadness.
One thing they both agreed upon. They would
never argue about then opinions. They would,
as far as possible, avoid any allusion to the
grave differences that lay between them.

Late in the afternoon, a little group of fishermen
and idlers stood on the beach. They were
looking out seaward with some anxiety, for a
sudden wind had arisen, and there was what
they called an ' ugly sea.'

I tell you it was madness to let 'em go alone
on such a day,' said the old sailor with the
telescope.

And I tell you that the old gentleman pulls
as good an oar as any of us,' retorted another
man, in a blue Jersey and a sou'wester.

Old gentleman, indeed !' broke in the coastguardsman.
' Better say devil at once ! Why,
man alive ! your old gentleman is Luke Raeburn
the atheist.'

God forbid !' exclaimed the first speaker,
lowering his telescope for a moment. ' Why, ho
be mighty friendly to us fishermen.'

Where be they now, gaffer ? D'ye see them V
asked a keen-looking hid of seventeen.

Ay, there they be ! there they be ! God
have mercy on 'em ! They'll be swamped, seas
fate !'

The coastgaardsman, Avitli provoking sangfroid
and indifference, began to sig,

For, though his body's under hatches,
His soul is gone alo-o-o-oft'

Then breaking off into a sort of recitative,
Which is exactly the opposite quarter to
what Luke Raebiirn's soul will go, I guess.'

Blowed if I wouldn't pull an oar to save a
mate, if I were so mighty sure he was going to
the devil !' observed a weather-beaten seaman,
with gold ear-rings and a good deal of tattooing
on his brawny arms.

'Would you now I' said the coastguardsmau,
with a snpcnor and sardonic smile. ' AVcll, in
luy 'umblo opinion, dunning's too good for the
l)hisp]ieming dog of an atheist.'

With which humane utterance, the coastguardsman
walked off, singing of Tom Who

Never from his word departed,
"Whose heart was kind and soft.'

Well, I, for one, will lend a hand to help
them. Now then, mates ! which of you is going
to help to cheat the devil of his due f said the
man with the ear-rings.

Three men proffered their services, but the
old seaman with the telescope checked them.

Bide a bit, mates, bide a bit ; I'm not sure
you've a call to go.' He Aviped the glasses of
his telescope with a red handkerchief, and then
looked out seaward once more.

In the meantime, while then fate was being
discussed on the shore, Eaeburn and Erica were
face to face with death. They were a long way
from land before the wind had sprung up so
strongly. Eaeburn, who in his young days had
been at once the pride and the anxiety of the
fishermen round his Scottish home, and noted
for his rashness and daring, had now lost the
freshness of his experience, and had grown forgetful
of weather tokens. The danger was
upon them before he had even thought of it.
The strong wind blowing upon them, the delicious
salt freshness, even the brisk motion, had
been such a relief to them after the pain and

excitement of the morning*. But all at once
they began to realise that their peril was gi-eat.
Their little boat tossed so fearfully that Erica
had to cling to the scat for safety ; one moment
they were down in the hollow of a deep gi'cen
wave, the next they would be tossed up upon
its crest as though their boat had been a mere
cockle-shell.

I'm afraid we've made a mistake, Eric,' said
Auburn. ' I ought to have seen this stone
coming up.'

What?' cried Erica, for the dashing of the
waves made the end of the sentence inaudible.

He looked across the boat at her, and an
almost paralysing dread filled his heart. For
himself he could be brave, for himself death had
no terrors — but for his child ?

A horrible vision rose before him. lie saw
her lying stiff and cold, will glazed eyes and
drenched Jiair. AVas llicre to be a yet more
terrible separation between them ? Was death
to snatch her from him? Ah, no — that shoidd
never be! They would at least go down
together.

The vision faded ; he saw douce more the fair,

eager face, no longer pallid, but flushed "with
excitement, the brave eyes clear and bright,
but somewhat anxious. The consciousness that
everything depended on him helped him to rise
above that overmastering horror. He was once
more his strongest self.

The rudder had been left on the beach, and
it was only possible to steer by the oars. He
dismissed even the thought of Erica, and concentrated
his whole being on the difficult task
before him. So grand did he look in that tremendous
endeavour that Erica almost forgot
her anxiety ; there was something so forceful in
his whole aspect that she could not be afraid.
Her heart beat quickly indeed, but the consciousness
of danger was stimulating.

Yet the waves grew more and more furious,
rolling, curling, dashing up in angry white
foam — 'raging horribly.' At length came loue
which broke right over the little boat, blinding
and drenching its occupants.

Another like that will do for us,' said Raeburn,
in a quiet voice.

The boat was half full of water. Erica began
to bale out with her father's hat, and each knew

from the other's face tluit their pHght was
hopeless.

Kaeburu hid faced death may tunes. He
lead faced it more than once on a sick-bed, he
had faced it surrounded by yelHng and furious
mobs, but he had never faced it side by side
Avitli his child. Again he looked at the angry
grey-green waves, at the wreaths of curling
white foam, again that a^\^ul vision rose before
him, and, brave man as he was, he shuddered.

Life was sweet even though he was harassed,
persecuted, libelled. Life was sweet even though
his child had deserted his cause, even though
she had ' cheated herself into a belief.' Life
Alas infinitely worth living, mere existence an
exquisite joy, blank nothingness a hideous
alternative.

Bale out !' he cried, despair in his eyes, buta
curve of resoluteness about his lips.

A fear more strikes warily pulled, another
huge wave swooping along, rearing itself up,
dashing down upon them. The boat reeled
and staggered. To struggle longer was useless.
Raeburn threw his oars in board, caught hold of
Erica, and held her fast. When they could see

once more, they found the boat quite three parts
full.

Child !' he said, * child I' But nothing more
would come. For once in his life words failed
him ; the orator was speechless. Was it a minute
or an eternity that he waited there through
that awful pause — waited with his arm round
Erica, feeling the beating of her heart, the heart
which must soon cease beating for ever, feeling
her ami breath on his cheek — alas ! how few
more breaths would she draw ! How soon
would the cold watery grave close over all
that he

His thoughts were abruptly checked. That
eternal minute of waiting was over. It was
coming — death was coming — riding along with
mocking scorn on the crest of a giant wave.
Higher and higher rose the towering, sea-green
wall, mockingly it rushed forward, remorselessly
swooped down upon them ! This time the boat
was completely swamped.

I will at least die fighting !' thought Auburn,
a despairing, defiant courage inspiring
him with almost superhuman strength.

Trust to me !' he cried. * Don't struggle !'

And Erica, who would naturally have fallen into
that frantic and vain convulsion which seizes
most people when they find themselves in pent
of drowning, by a supreme effort of will made
110 struggle at all, but only clung to her father.

Raeburn was a very strong man, and an
expert simmer, but it was a fearful sea. They
were dashed hither and thither, they were buffeted,
and choked, and blinded, but never once
did he lose his presence of mind. Every iioav
and then he even shouted out a few words to
Erie. How strange his voice sounded in that
chaos, in that raging symphony of winds and
waves.

Tell me when you can't hold any longer,' he
cried.

I can't leave go,' returned Erica.

And even then, in that desperate minute, they
both felt a momentary thrill of amusement. The
fact Alas, that liL'r eflbrt of will had been so
great when she had olx^yed him, and clung withall
her might to him, that now the muscles of
her hands absolutely would not relax their
hold.

It seemed endless I Over the cold green and

white of the waves Raeburn seemed to see his
whole life stretched out before him in a series of
■\dvid pictures, All the long struggles, all the
desperate fights wreathed themselves out in
\T[sions round this supreme death-struggle. And
alway's there was the consciousness that he was-toiling
for Erica's life, struggling, agonising,
straining every fibre of his being to save
her.

But what was this paralysing cold creeping
over his limbs? What this pressure at his
heart ? — this dimness of his eyes ? Oh ! was his
strength failing him ? Was the last hope, indeed,
gone ? Panting, he struggled on.

I will do thirty more strokes I' he said to
himself.

And he did them.

I Avill do ten more I'

And he forced himself to keep on.

Ten more !'

He was gasping now. Erica's weight seemed
to be dragging him down, down, into nothingness.


Six strokes painfully made ! Seven ! — After all
nothingness would mean rest. Eight ! — No pain

to cither, since they were together. Nine ! — He
should live on in the hearts of his people. Ten I
Agony of failure ! he was beaten at last I

AVhat followed they neither of them knew,
(only there was a shout, an agony of sinking, a
vision of a dark form and a something sold
which they grasped convulsively.

When Erica came to herself they were by no
means out of danger, but there was something
between tlicm and the angry sea. She was
lying down at the bottom of a boat in close
proximity to some silvery-skinned fishes, and
her father was holding her hand.

Wildly they tossed for what seemed to her a
very long time ; but at length fresh voices were
heard, the keel grated on the shore, she felt herself
lifted up and carried on to the beach. Then,
with an effort, she stood up once more, trembling
and exhausted, but conscious that mere
existence was rapture.

Raeburn paused to reward ami thank the
men who had rescued them in his most genial
manner, and Erica's happiness would have been
complete had not the coastguardsman stepped up
in an insolent and officious way, and observed,

It is a pity, Mr. Luke Raeburn, that you
don't bring yourself to offer thanks to God
Almighty !'

Sir,' replied Raeburn, ' when I ask your
opinion on my personal and private matters, it
will be fitting that you should speak — not
before !'

The man looked annihilated, and turned away.

Raeburn gi-asked the rough hands of his
helpers and well wishers, gave his arm to
Erica, and led her up the steep beach.

Later on in the evening they sat over the
fire, and talked over their adventure. June
though it was, they had both been thoroughly
chilled.

What did you think of when we were in the
water V asked Erica.

I made a deep calculation,' said Raeburn,
smiling, * and found that the sale of the plant and
of all my books would about clear off the last of
the debts, and that I should die free. After
that I thought of Cicero's case of the two wise
men struggling in the sea with one plank to
rescue them sufficient only for one. They were
to decide which of their lives was most useful

to tlic3 republic, and the least Ireful man was U>
drop down (piety into the deep. It struck mo
that you and I should hardly come to such a
calculation. I think we would have gone down
together, little one ! What did you think of?'

But Erica's thoughts could not so easily be
put into words.

For one thing,' she said, ' I thought we should
never be divided any more.'

She sighed a little ; for, after all, the death they
had so narrowly escaped would have been so
infinitely easier than the life wliieh lay before
her.

Clearly we are inseparable !' said Raeburn.
In that sense, little son Eric, we can still say,
We fear nae foe !" '

Perhaps the gentle words, and the sadness
which he could not entirely banish from his tone,
moved Erica almost more than his passionate
utterances in the morning.

Hic'daywasiio l)a(l miniature of lier whole
life. Very sad, very lia[)})y, full of danger, conflict,
and strife, warmed by outside sympathy,
wounded lev outside insolence!

CHAPTER V.

WHAT IT INVOLVED.

Stronger than steel
Is the sword of the spirit ;
Swifter than arrows
The life of the truth is ;
Greater than anger
Is love, and subdued.

Longfellow.

The two or three days at Codrington lengthened
out into a week, for both Raeburn and Erica felt
a good deal exhausted after the eventful Monday.
Raeburn, anxious to spare her as much as possible,
himself "wi-note to Mrs. Craigie, and told her
of Erica's change of views.

It is a great grief,' he wrote, * and she-will
be a serious loss to our cause, but I am determined
that we vnW not enact over again the
course of action which drove both you and me
VOL. II. H

iVf)iii home. Odd ! that slit should just reverse
our story! Anyhow, you and I, Jean, have
been too much persecuted to turn into persecutors.
The child is as much in earnest for her
derision as we for our truth. Argument and
remonstrance "still do no good, and you must
understand, and make Tom understand, that I'll
not have her bullied. Don't think that I am
trying to make her mistaken way all easy for
her. She won't find it easy. She will have a
miserable time of it with our own set, and how
many Christians, do you imagine, will hold out
a hand to Luke Raeburn's daughter, even
though her views have changed. ^laybe, half-a-dozen
! not more, I fancy, unless she renounced
us A\'itli atheism, and that she never-will do !
She will be between two fires, and I believe
between the two she will be worried to death ina
year unless we can keep the peace at home.
I don't blame Osmond for this, though at first I
(lid suspect it was his doing; It this has been
no cram-work. Erica has honestly faced the
questions herself, and has honestly arrived at
this mistaken conclusion. Osmond's Kindness
and generosity of course influenced her, but for

the rest they have only had the free discussions
of which from the first I approved. Years ago
he said to me plainly, " What if she should see
reason to change her mind ?"

I scouted the notion then, it seemed — and
still seems — almost incredible. He has, you see,
acted quite honourably. It is Erica's own
doing. I remember telling him that our name
of Free-thinkers was a reality, and so it shall
still be I She shall be free to think the imbrue
is the true ; she shall be free to confess herself a
Christian before the whole world, though it deal
me the hardest of blows.'

This letter soon spread the news. Aunt Jean
was too much vexed and not deeply grieved
enough to keep silence. Vexation finds some
relief in talking, deep grief as a rule prefers not
to speak. Tom, in his odd way, felt the defection
of his favourite cousin as much as anybody,
except Raeburn himself. They had been playfellows,
they had always been like brother and
sister together, and he was astounded to think
that Erica of all people in the world should
have deserted the cause. The letter had come
by one of the evening posts. He went out and

H 2

paced lip and down the square in the soft midsummer
twilight, trying to realise the facts of
the case. Presently he heard rapid steps behind
him : no one walked at that pace excepting
Brian, and Tom was quite prepared to feel an
arm link itself within his.

Hullo, old fellow I' exclaimed Brian. ' Moonlight
meditations V

Where did you drop) from ?' said Tom,,
evasively.

Broken leg, round the corner — a public-house
row. What brutes men are I' exclaimed
the young doctor, hotly.

Disappointing world altogether,' said Tom,
with a sigh. ' What do you think we have just
heard about Erica V

Brian's heart almost stopped beating ; ho
hardly knew what he feared.

How can I tell ?' he answered, hoarsely.
No bad news, I hope ?'

She's gone and turned Christian,' said Tom,
in a tone of deep disgust.

Brian started.

Thank God !' he exclaimed, under his breath.

Confound it I' cried Tom. ' I forgot you'd bo

triumphant. Good night,' and he marched off
in high dudgeon.

Brian did not even miss him. How could heat
such a time ? The weight of years had been
lifted off his soul. A consuming happiness took
possession of him ; his whole being was a thanksgiving.
By-and-by he went home, found his
father in the study, and was about to speak,
when Charles Osmond put an open letter into
his hand. While Raeburn had ^a-itten to his
sister. Erica had written to her ' prophet ' — a sad,
happy, quaint letter exactly like herself. Its
straightforward simplicity brought the tears to
Brian's eyes.

It will be a fearful life for her now !' he exclaimed.
* She will never be able to endure it.
Father, now at last I may surely speak to her !'

He spoke very eagerly. Charles Osmond
looked grave.

sly dear old fellow, of course you must do
as you think best,' he replied, after a minute's
pause ; * but I doubt if it is wise just now.'

Why, it is the very time of all others when
she might be glad of me,' said Brian.

But can't you see,' returned his father, ' that

Erica is the last girl in the world to marry a
mau because she was unhappy, or because she
had got a difficult bit of life in front of her ?
Of course, if you really think she cares for you,
it is different ; but '

She does not care fur me,' said Brian, quickly
; ' but in time I think she would. I think I
could make her happy.'

Yes, I think you could ; but 1 fancy you unmake
shipwreck of your hopes if you speak to
her now. Have patience.'

I am sick of patience I' cried poor r)rian,
desperately. ' Have I not been patient for
nearly seven years ? For what Avould you have
me wait ? Am I to wait till, between our injustice
to secularists and their injustice to Christians,
she is half badgered out of life ? If she
could but love me, if she would marry me now,
I could save her from what must be a life of
misery.'

If I could but get you to sec it from Avhat I
am convinced is Kriea's point of view I' exclaimed
Charles Osmond. ' r\>rget for a minute
that you arc her knight and champion, and try
to sec things as she sees them. Let us try to

reverse things. Just imagine for a minute that
you are the child of some leading man, the head
and chief of a party or association — we'll say
that you are the child of an Archbishop of Canterbury.
You are carefully educated, you become
a zealous worker, you enter into all your
father's interests, you are able to help him in a
thousand ways. But, by slow degrees, we will
say that you perceive a want in the system in
which you have been educated, and, after many
years of cared study and thought, you are
obliged to reject your former beliefs, and to
accept that other system which shall most recommend
itself to you. We will suppose for
the sake of analogy that you become a secularist.
Knowing that your change of views will
be a tenable grief to your father the archbishop,
it takes your whole strength to make your confession,
and you not only feel your father's personal
pain, but you feel that his pain wall be
increased by his public position. To make it
worse, too, we must suppose that a nmnber of
people calling themselves atheists, and in the
name of atheism, have at intervals for the last
thirty years been annoying and insulting your

father, that in withstanding their attacks lie has
often received bodily injury, and that the atheists
have so often driven him into the law com-ts
that he has been pretty nearly beggared. All
his privations you have shared — for instance,
you event with him and lived for years in a
poky little lodging, and denied yourself every
single luxury. But now you have, in spite of
all these persecutions carried on in the name of
secularism, learned to see that tho highest form
of secularism is true. The archbishop feels this
terribly. However, being a very loving father,
he wisely refuses to indulge in perpetual controversy
with his child. You agree still to live
together, and each try with all your might to
find all the possible points of union still left you.
Probably, if you are such a child as I imagine,
you love your father ten times more than you
did before'. TlR-n just as you have made up
your mind to try to be more to hin, when all
you care aboTit in life is to comfort and help
him, and Avhen your heart is nmeh occupied
with your new opinions, a friend of yours — a
secularist — comes to you, and says, "A 
life lies before you! 'Julie atheists will

never thoroughly take up with you while you
live with your father the archbishop, and of
course it is wretched for you to be surrounded
by those of another creed. Come ^^^th me !
I love you — I will make you happy, and save
you from persecution I" '

In spite of himself, Brian had smiled many
times at this putting of an archbishop of Canterbury
into the position of Luke Raeburn.
But the conclusion arrived at seemed to him
to admit of only one answer, and left him very
grave.

You may be right,' he said, very sadly.
But to stand still and watch her suffer '

He broke off, unable to finish his sentence.

Charles Osmond took it up.

To stand still and watch her suffer will bethe
terribly hard work of a brave man who
takes a true, deep view. To rush in with offers
of help would be the work of an impetuous
man who took a very superficial view. If
Erica where selfish, I would say go and appeal
to her selfishness, and marry her at once ; for
selfishness will never do any good in Guilford
Terrace. But she is one of the most devoted

women I know I Your appeal would be rejected.
I believe she will feel herself in the
right place there, and, as long as that is the
case, nothing Avill move her.'

Father,' said Brian, rather desperately, * I
would take your opinion before any other
opinion in the world. You know her well —
far better than I do. Tell me honestly— d<^
you think she could over love me ?'

You have given me a hard task,' said Charles
Osmond. ' But you have asked for my honest
opinion, and you must have it. As long as her
heather lives, I don't believe Erica will ever love
a man well enough to marry him. I remember,
in my young days, a beautiful girl in our neighbourhood,
the belle of the whole county ; and
years went by, and she had countless offers,
but she rejected them all. People used to
remonstrate with her, and ask her how it was.
Oh," she used to reply, *' that is very easily
explained. I never see a mein I thiidc eijual to
my own brothers !" Now, whatever faults Kac-
spurn has, we may be sure Erica sees far less
plainly than we see, and nobody can deny that
he is a grand fellow. When one bears in mind

all that lie has had against him, his nobility
of character seems to me simply marvellous.
He puts us to shame I And that is why he
seems to me the wholesome though powerful
medicine for this nineteenth century of ours,
with its great professions and its un-Christlike
lives.'

AVhat is the use of patience — what is the use
of love,' exclaimed Brian, 'if I am never to
serve her?'

Never I Who said so !' said his father, smiling.
* Why, you have been serving her every
blessed day since you first loved her. Is unspoken
love nothing worth ? Are prayers useless
? Is it of no service to let your light shine?
But I see how it is. As a doctor, you look upon
pain as the one great enemy to be fought with,
to be bound down, to be conquered. You want
to shield Erica from pain, which she can't be
shielded from, if she is to go on growing.

Knowledge by suffering entertain
one would so willingly endorse the truth
of that as she herself ! And it will be so to the
end of the chapter. You can't shut her up in a
beautiful casket, and keep her from all pain I

If yon could, lie would no longer be the Erica
you love. As for the rest, I nia' be wrong.
She may have room for safely love even noir'.
I have only told you what I think. And
"whether she ever be your wife or not — and from
my heart I hope she may be — your love will in
no case be wasted. Pure love can't be wasted ;
it's an impossibility.'

Brian sighed heavily, but made no answer.
Presently he took up his hat, and went out. He
walked on and on without the faintest idea of
time or place, occupied only with the terrible
struggle which was going on in his heart,
which seemed only endurable with the help of
rapid and mechanical exercise. When at length
he came to himself, he was miles away from
home, right down at Shepherd's l^usli, and he
heard the church clocks striking twelve. Then
he turned back, and walked home more quietly,
his resolution made.

If he told iM-mica of his love, and she refused
him now, he should not only add to lier troubles,
but he should inevitably put an end to the
comfort of the close friendship which now existed
between the two families, lie would keep silence.

Erica and her father returned on the Saturday,
and then began a most trying time. Tom
seemed to shrink from her just as he had done
at the time of her mother's death. He was shy
and vexed, too, and kept as much out of her
way as possible. Mrs. Craigie, on the contrary,
could not leave her alone. In spite of her brother's
words, she tried every possible argument
and remonstrance in the hope of re-convincing
her niece. With the best intentions, she was
often grossly unfair, and Erica, with a naturally
quick temper, and her Raeburn inheritance of
fluency and satire, found her patience sorely
tried. Raeburn was excessively busy, and they
sav very little of him ; perhaps he thought it
expedient that Erica should fight her own
battles, and fully realise the seriousness of the
step she had taken.

Have you thought,' urged Mrs. Craigie, as a
last argument — ' have you thought what offence
you ^Wll give to our whole party ? What do
you think they will say when they learn that
you of all people have deserted the cause V

The tears started to Erica's eyes, for naturally-she
did feel this a great deal. But she answered

bravely, and Avitli a sort of riii^ in her voice,
"wln'cli made Torn look up from his newspaper,

^ They will know that Luke Raeburn's daughter
must 1)0 true to hur convictions, at whatever
cost;

Will you go on writing in the Idol T asked
Tom, for the first time making an observation
to her which was not altogether necessary.

No,' said Erica — ' how can I V

Tom shrugged his shoulders, and made no
further remark.

'Then how do you mean to live I How else
can you support yourself?' asked Aunt Jean.

I don't know,' said Erica. ' I must get some
other AV( )rk — somewhere.'

But her heart failed her, though she spoke
firmly. She knew that to find work in London
was no easy matter.

Offer yourself to the Church Chronicle' said
sirs. Craigie, sarcastically, ' or, better still, to the
\Vatch-Do(). They always make a good deal of
capital out of a convert.'

Erica coloured, and had to bite her lip hard
to keep back the quick retort which occurred
to her all too naturally.

By-aud-by Mr. ^Mastermau aucl another well-known
secularist walked in. They both knew
of Erica's defection. Mr. Masterman attacked
her at once in a sort of bantering way.

So, Miss Raebnrn, now I understand why
some time ago you walked out in the middle of
my lecture one evening.'

And then followed a most irritating semi-serious
remonstrance, in questionable taste. Erica
writhed under it. A flippant canvassing of her
most private and sacred thoughts was hard to
bear, but she held her ground, and, being not
without a touch of her father's dignity, Mr.
Masterman presently beat a retreat, not feeling
quite so well satisfied With himself as usual.
His companion did not allude directly to her
change of views, but treated her with a sort of
pitying condescension, as if she had been a mild
lunatic.

There was some sort of committee being held
in the study that evening. The next person to
alive was Professor Gosse, and almost immediately
after came Mr. Harmston, a charming-old
man, whom Erica had known from her
childhood. The came hi and had some coffee

before going in to the stingy. Mrs. Craigie
talked to Mr. Harmston. Eiiea, looking her
h)veHest, waited on them. Tom watched them
all philosophically from the hearthrug.

I am soit to hear you have deserted your
colours,' said the professor, looking more gi-ave
than she had ever seen him look before. Then,
his voice softening a little as he looked at her,
I expect it all comes of that illness of yours. I
believe religion is just an outgrowth of bad
health — meme sana in corpore sand, you know.
Never mind, you must still come to my workshop,
and I shall see if science won't re-convent
you.'

He moved away with his good-humoured,
shaggy-looking face, learning Erica to old Mr.
llarmstoii.

I am much grieved to hear this of you, Erica,'
he said, lowering his voice, and bringing his
grey head near to lies — 'as grieved as if you
were my own cliilil. V<>ii Avill bo a sore loss tous
all.'

Erica felt this keenly, for she was very Inn
of the old man.

Dc) you think it does not hurl me to grieve

you all V she said, piteously. ' But one must be
honest.'

^ Quite right, my dear,' said the old man, ' but
that does not make our loss the less heavy. We
had hoped great things of you, Erica. It is
grievous to me that you should have fallen
back to the miserable superstitions against
which your father has fought so bravely.'

Come, Mr. Harmston,' said the professor ; * weare
late, I fancy.'

And, before Erica could make any reply, Mrs.
Craigie and the two visitors had adjourned to
the committee-room, leaving her alone with
Tom.

Now, for two or three days Erica had been
enduring Tom's coldness and Mrs. Ci-aigie's unceasing
remonstrances ; all the afternoon she
had been having a long and painful discussion
with her friend, Mrs. MacNaughton ; this evening
she had seen plainly enough what her position
would be for the future among all her old acquaintances,
and an aching sense of isolation
filled her heart. She was just going to run upstairs
and yield to her longing for darkness and
quiet, when Tom called her back. She could

VOL. II. I

not refuse to hoar, for the coldness of lier old
playmate had made her very sad, but she turned
back rather reluctantly, for her eyes were
brimming With tears.

Don't go,' said Tom, quite in his natural
voice. ' Have you any coffee for me, or did the
old fogies finish it V

Erica went back to trio table and poured him
out a cup of coffee ; but her hand trembled, and.
before she could prevent it, down splashed a
great tear into the saucer.

Come !' said Tom, cheerfully. * Don't go and
spoil my coffee with salt water ! All very well
for David, in a penitential psalm, to diiiik
tears, but in the nineteenth century, you
know '

Erica began to laugh at this, a fatal proceeding,
for afterwards came a great sob, and the
tears came down in good earnest. Philosophical
Tom always professed great contempt for tears,
and he knew that Erica must ])e very nu-li
moved indeed to cry in this presence, or, indeed,
to cry at all ; for, as he expressed it, * It was not
in her line.' But somehow, when for the first
time he saw her cry, he did not feel contemptuous

; instead, lie began to call himself a ' hardhearted
brute,' and a ' narrow-minded fool,' and
to feel miserable and out of conceit with
himself.

I say, Erica, don't cry,' he pleaded. * Don't,
I say, I can't bear to see you. I've been a cold-blooded
wretch — I'm awfully sorry !'

It's very cowardly of me,' sobbed Erica.

But — but — ' with a rush of tears, * you don't
know hoar I love you all — it's like being killed
by inches.'

You're not cowardly,' said Tom, warmly.

You've been brave and plucky ; I only wish it
were in a better cause. Look here. Erica, only
stop crying, and promise me that you'll not take
this so dreadfully to heart. I'll stand by you —
I will, indeed, even though I hate your cause.
But it shan't come between us any longer, the
hateful delusion has spoilt enough lives already.
It shan't spoil ours !'

Oh, don't I' cried Erica, wounded ancAv by
this.

'Well,' said Tom, gulping down his longing
to inveigh against Christianity, ' it goes hard
with me not to say a word against the religion

i2

that lias brought us; all our misery, but for your
sake I'll try not when talking with you. Now
let us begin again on the old footing.'

*Not quite on the old footing either,' said
Erica, who had conquered her tears. 'I love
you a thousand times more, you dear old Tom.'

And Tom, who was made of sterling stuff,
did from that day forward stand by lier through
everything, and checked himself when harsh
words about religious matters rose to his lips,
and tried his best to smooth what coidd not fail
to be a rough bit of walking.

The first meeting between Charles Osmond
and Erica, after her return from Codrington, did
not come about till the morning after her conversation
with Tom. They had each called on
the other, but had somehow managed to miss.
When at length Erica was shown into the study,
connected in her mind with so many warm
discussions, lie found it empty. She sat down
in the great arm-clair by the window, wondering
if she were indeed the same Erica who lead
sat there years before, on the day when her
prophet' lead foretold lier illness. AVhat
changes had come about since then !

But her ' prophet ' "^'as unchanged, his brisk
Well, Erica!' was exactly what it had been
when she had come to him in the days of her
atheism. It had always been full of welcome
and sympathy, and now the only difference was
that a great happiness shone in his eyes ashe
came forward with his soft, steady tread
and took her hand in both his.

They sat silent for a while, then talked a little
but reservedly, for both felt that the subject
which filled their thoughts was at once too sacred
and too personal to be altogether put into
words. Then by-and-by they began to discuss
the practical consequences of the change, and
especially the gTcat difficulty as to Erica's
means of supporting herself.

'Could you not try teaching?' said Charles
Osmond.

The market is already overstocked.'

True, but I should think that your brains and
certificates ought to secure you work in spite of
that.'

I should like it in many ways,' said Erica,
but, you see, except at the night-school it is out
of the question, and I could not five upon my

grant even if every one of my class passed the
examination. For any other sort of teaching,
Alio do you imagine would have the courage
to employ anyone bearing the name of Raeburn
? Why, I can't give an order in a shop
"without being looked all over by the person
Who takes the address. No, governesses
would 1)e all very well if one might assume a
none de guerre, but that-would not do, you
see.'

You couldn't find work of that sort among
your own set, I suppose ?'

'Not now,' said Erica. * You see, naturally
enough, I am very niucli out of favour with
them all.'

Falling between two stools,' said Charles
Osmond, half to himself. * But don't lose lieaii,
Erica ; " A stone that is fit for the Avail Avill not
be left in the way ;" there is work for you somewhere.
By the way, 1 might see old Crutches,
he knows all the literary folk, and might get
you an introduction to some one, at any
rate.'

Just as Erica was leaving, Brian came in
hum his rounds, and they met at the door. Had

lie knoAvn her trouble and perplexity as to work,
no power on earth could have induced him to
keep silence any longer ; but he knew nothing.
She looked a little pale, but that was natural
enough, and in her eyes he could see a peace
which he had never seen there before. Then
deep unselfish happiness filled his heart again,
and Erica recognised in his greeting a great
deal more than an ordinary bystander would
have seen. She went away feeling bettered by
that hand-clasp.

That is a downright good man !' she thought
to herself. * Perhaps by the time he's fifty-five
he'll be almost equal to his father.'

CHAPTER VI.

AN EDITOR.

Socrates. — How singular is the thing called pleasure,
and how curiously related to pain, which might be thought
to be the opposite ; for they never come to a man together,
and yet he who pursues either of them is generally compelled
to take the other. They are two, and yet they grow together
out of one head or stem ; and I cannot help thinking
that, if aesop had noticed them, he would have made a
fable about God trying to reconcile their strife, and when
he could not, he fastened their heads together ; and this is
the reason why when one comes the other follows.

Plato.

That Erica should live any longer upon the
money which her father chiefly made by tho
dissemination of views with which she disagreed,
was clearly impossible, at least impossible
to one of her sincere and thorough nature.
But to find work was very difficult indeed. After
an anxious waiting and searching, she was one
day surprised by receiving through Charles Osmond's

friend, Mr. Crutches, an introduction to
the editor of a well-known and widely read
paper. Everyone congratulated her, but she
could not feel very hopeful, it seemed too good
to prove tie — it was in fact so exactly the
position which she would herself have chosen
that it seemed unlikely it should ever really be
hers. Still of course she hoped, and arrangements
were made for an interview with Mr.
Eircham, editor and part-proprietor of the
Daily Review.

Accordingly, one hot summer morning Erica
dressed herself carefully, tried to look old and
serious, and set off with Tom to the city.

I'll see you safe to the door of the lion's den,'
said Tom, as they made their way along the
crowded streets. * I only wish I could be under
the table during the interview ; I should like to
see you doing the dignified journalist.'

*I wouldn't have you for the world !' said
Erica, laughing. Then, growing grave again,
Oh, Tom ! how I wish it were over I it's worse
than three hundred visits to a dentist rolled
into one !'

Appalling prospect !' said Tom. ' I can

exactly picture what it Avill be I IJiicham I such
a forbidding name for an editor ! He'll be a sort
of editorial !Mr. Squeers ; he'll talk in a loud
blustering way, and you'll feel exactly like a
journalistic Smile.'

No,' said Eiica, laughing. ' He'll be a neat
little dapper man, very smooth and bland, and
he'll talk patronisingly and raise my hopes, and
then, in a few days' time, will send me a porte
refusal.'

Tell him at once that you hero-worship Sir
Michael Cunningham, the statesman of the age,
the most renowned " Sly Bacon !" '

Tom, do be quiet !' said Erica. ' I-wish you
had never thought of that horrid name.'

Horrid ! I mean to make my fortune out
of it. If you like, you can offer the pun on
reasonable terms to Mr. Bircham !'

Why, this is Fleet Street ! doesn't it lead
< out of this ?said Erica, Evil li an indescribable feeling
in the back of her neck. ' We nuit be
quite near.'

'Nearer than near,' said Tom. ' Now, then,
left wheel ! Here we are, you sec ! It's a
mercy that you turn pink with fright, not

green like the sea-green Robespierre. Go in
looking as pretty as that, and Mr. Squeers ungraciously
accept your services unless he's sand-blind!'


What a tease you are ! Do be quiet,'
implored Erica. And then, in what seemed to
her an alarmingly short time, she Alas actually
left by herself to beard the lion, and a clerk
was assuring her that Mr. Bircham was in, and
would she Avalk upstairs.

For reasons best known to himself, the editor
of the Daily Review had his private room at the
very top of the house. A sedate clerk led the
way up a dingy staircase, and Erica toiled after
him, wondering how much breath she should
have left by the time she reached the end. On
one of the landings she caught sight of a sandy
cat, and felt a little reassured at meeting such
an everyday creature in this grim abode ; she
gave it a furtive stroke as she passed, and
would have felt it a protection if she could
have picked it up and taken it with her. That
would have been undignified, however, and by
the time she reached the editor's room only a
very observant person could have discovered

in her frank, .self-possessed manner any trace of
nervousness.

So different was Mr. Bircham from their preconceived
notions that she couki almost have
laughed at the contrast. He was very tall and
pompous, he wore a lank brown wig which
looked as if it might come off at any moment,
he had little keen gi*ey eyes which twinkled,
and a broad mouth which shut very closely ;
whether it was grim or humorous she could
not quite decide. He was sitting in a swivel
chair, and the table strewn with letters, and
the desk, with its pigeon-holes crammed with
papers, looked so natural and so like her father's
that she began to feel a reassuring sense of
fellowship with this entire stranger. The inevitable
paste-pot and scissors, the piles of newspapers,
the books of reference, all looked homelike
to her.'

^[r. l>irchani rose and lowed rather formally,
motioned lier to a seat, and swung round this
own chair so that they faced one another.
Then he scanned her from head to foot with the
sort, of appraising glance to which lie was
only too well accustomed, — a glance which said

as plainly as words, ' Oh ! so you are that atheist's
daughter, are you V

But, whatever impression Erica made upon
Mr. Bircham, not a muscle of his face altered,
and he began to discuss business in a most
formal and business-like way. Things did not
seem very hopeful, and Erica began to doubt
more and more whether she had the smallest
chance of acceptance. Something in the dry
formal manner of the editor struck a chill to her
heart. So much, so very much depended on
this interview, and already the prospect seemed
far from hopeful.

I should like to see some of your world,'
observed sir. Bircham. ' How long have you
been in the habit of writings in Mr. Raeburn's

o

organ ?'

For tliQ last five years,' said Erica.

mr. Bircham lifted his shaggy eyebrows at
this, for Erica looked even younger than she
really was. However, he made no comment,
but took up the end of a speaking tube.

Send up Jones nth the file of Idol-Breakers
I ordered.'

Erica's colour rose. Presently the answer

from the lower re;L;,'ion.s appearing in the shape of
the sedate clerk carrying a great biiiidle of last
year's Idol Breakers.

Perhaps you will show me one or two of
your average articles,' said mr. Birchani, and,
while Erica searched through the bundle of
papers, he took up one of the copies which she
had put aside, and studied the outside page
critically. ' The Idol-Breaker : Advocate of Free -
thought and Secularism. Edited by Luke Raeburn.'


They are slaves who dare not be
111 the right \\i\.\\ two or three.' •

Mr. r>ircliam put it doAvn,and began to watch
her attentively. Lie was absorbed in her
search, and was quite unconscious of his scrutiny.
Even Jiad slice noticed him, she Avonld not
have Understood what was passing in his mind.
His little grey eyes grew bright ; then he pushed
back his Avis impatiently ; then he cleared his
throat ; finally lie took snuff, sneezed violently,
and walked to the window. When he returned,
lu' was even more dry and foi-mal than before.

These, 1 think, are fairly representative,' said
price. ' I have marked them in the margin.'

He took the three or four copies she handed
to him, and began to look through one of the
articles, muttering a sentence half-aloud every
now and then, and making little ejaculations
which might have been either of approval or
disapproval.

Finally the interview ended. Mr. Bircham
put down the papers ^\dth a sigh of utter weariness.
Erica thought.

Well, bliss Auburn,' he remarked, ' I Avill
look at one or two of your other articles, and
will communicate with you in a few days' time.'

Then he shook hands ^vith. her with frigid
politeness, and in another minute she was slowly
making her way down the dingy staircase.
Partly from the reaction after her excitement,
partly from mental worry and physical weariness,
she felt by the time she Alas fairly out of
the office as if she could hardly drag herself
along. Her heart was like lead, blank loss of
hope and wearing anxiety as to the next effort
to be made were weighing her down. She
was naturally high-spirited, but when high-spirited
people do get depressed, they go down
to the very deepest depths ; and her interview

With mr. Birehani, by its dry clieerle.s.siie.s.s, by
its lack of Imman interest, had chilled her all
through. If he had even made a remark on the
weather, she thought she could have liked him
better ; if he had expressed an opinion on any
subject, even if she had disagreed with him, it
would have been a relief; as it was, he seemed
to her more like a hard steel pen dressed iu
broadcloth than a man.

As to his last remark, that could only mean
one thing. Io did not like to tell her to her
face that she would not suit him, lout he would
communicate A\ith her in a few days, and say it
comfortably on paper.

She had never felt quite so desolate and forlorn
and helpless as she felt that day when she
left the Daily Review office, and found herself in
the noise and bustle of Fleet Street. Tic midday
sun blazed down upon her in all its strength ;
the pavements seemed to scorch her feet ; the
weary succession of hurrying, pushing, jostling
passengers seemed to add to her sense of isolation.
Presently a girl stopped her, and asked
the way to Basinghall Street. She knew it well
enough, but felt too utterly stupid to direct her.

You had better ask a policeman,' she replied,
wearily.

Then, recollecting that she had several commissions
to do for her father, besides a great
deal to do at the Stores, she braced herself up,
and tried to forget Mr. Bircham, and to devote
her whole mind to the petty details of shopping.

The next evening, she was in the study with
her father when Tom brought in a bundle of
letters. One of them was for Erica. She at
once recognised Mr. Bircham's writing, and a new
pang of disappointment shot through her, though
she had really lost all hope on the previous day.
This very speedy communication could only
mean that his mind had been practically made
up before. She began to think of her next
chance, of the next quarter she must try, and
slowly opened the unwelcome letter. But in a
moment she had sprung to her feet in an ecstasy
of happiness.

Oh, father ! oh, Tom ! he will have me !'

Raeburn looked up from his correspondence,
and together they read Mr. Bircham's letter. It
was quite as business-like as he himself had
been at the interview.

VOL. II. K

Dear Madam,

Having fully considered the matter,
we are prepared to offer you a place on our
staff. The work required was explained to you
yesterday. For this we offer a salary of £200
per annum. Should you signify your acceptance
of these tei-ms, Ave will send you our usual
form of agreement.

I am, yours faithfully,

'Jacob Bircham.
To .Amiss Raeburx.'

'Commend me to people who don't raise one's
expectations !' said Ei-mica, rapturously. ' Three
cheers for my dear, stiff old editor !'

So that anxiety was over, and Erica was most
thankful to have such a load taken off her mind.
The comfort of it helped her through a very
trying summer.

CHAPTER VII.

ERICA TO THE RESCUE.

Isabel. — I have spirit to do anything that appears not foul

in the truth of my spirit.
Duke. — Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful.

Measure for Measure.

It wus the first of September. Watering-places
"were crowded with visitors, destruction had
begun among the partridges, and a certain portion
of the hard-working community Avere
taking their annual hoHday.

Raeburn, whose holidays were few and far
between, had been toiling away all through
the summer months in town. This evening, ashe
sat in his stifling little study, he had fallen
into a blank fit of depression. He could neither
work nor read. Strong as his nature was, it
was not always proof against this grim demon,

k2

^vhicli iivcngod itself on him for overtasking his
brain, shortening his hours of sleep, and in other
ways sacrificing himself to his work. To-night,
however, there was reason for his depression;
for while he sat fighting his demon at home,
Erica had gone to Charles Osmond's church — it
was the evening of her baptism.

Of course it was the necessary sequence of
the confession she had made a fcAv months
before, and Raeburii had long known that it
was inevitable; but none the less did he this
evening suffer more acutely than he had yet
suffered, realising more fully his child's defection.
The private confession had startled,
shocked, grieved him inexpressibly; but the
public profession, with its sense of irrevocableness,
filled his heart with a grief for which ho
could find no single ray of comfort.

Erica's brave endurance of all the trials and
discomforts involved in her change of faith had
impressed him not a little, and even when most
hurt and annoyed by her new views, he had
always tied to shield her ; lout it had been a
hard sinner, and the loss of the home unity
had tried him sorely.

Moreover, the comparative quiet of the last
year was now ended. A new foe had arisen in
the person of a certain retired cheesemonger,
who had sworn war to the knife against the
prophet of atheism. Unfortunately Mr. Poison's
war was not undertaken in a Christ-like
spirit ; his zeal was fast changing into personal
animosity, and he had vowed that he would crush
Raeburn, though it should cost him the whole
of his fortune. This very day he had brought
into action the mischievous and unfair blasphemy
laws, and to everybody's amazement,
had commenced a prosecution against Raeburn
for a so-called ' blasphemous libel ' in one of this
recent pamphlets. An attack on the liberty of
the press was to Raeburn what the sound of the
trinket is to the war-horse. Yet, now titkt the
first excitement was over, he had somehow sunk
into a fit of black depression. How was it?
Was his strength failing? was he growing old —
unfit for his work ?

He was roused at length by a knock at his
door. The servant entered ^^^th a number of
letters. He turned them over mechanically
until some handwriting which reminded him of

his mother's iiiadc him papists 'J1ic It'ttt-r born
the Greyshot postmark; it must be from this
sister Isabel He ojjeiied it with some eagerness
; there had been no communication between
them since the time of his wife's death, and
though he lead hoped that the correspondence
once begun might have been continued, nothing
more had come of it. The letter proved short,
and not altogether palatable. It began with
rejoicing over Eiica's change of vicars, the
report of which had somehow readied Mrs.
Fane-Smith. It went on to regret that lie did
not share in the change. Raeburn's lip curled
as he read. Then came a request that Erica
might be allowed to visit her relations, and the
letter ended with a kindly-meant, but mistaken
offer.

'i\Iy husband and 1 both feel that there are
many objections to Erica's remaining in lier
present home. AVe should be nmch pleased if
she would live with us — at any rate, imtil she has
met with some situation which would provide
her with a suitable and permanent residence.'

The oftener was not intended to be insulting,
but undoubtedly, to such a father as Auburn,

it was a gross insult. His eyes flashed fire, and
involuntarily he crushed the letter in his hand ;
then, a little ashamed of the passionate act, he
forced himself deliberately to smooth it out
again, and, folding it accurately, put it in his
pocket. A note for Erica remained in the envelope
; he placed it on the mantel-piece, then
fell back in his chair again and thought.

After all, might not the visit to Grey shot bea
very good thing for her ? Of course she would
never dream of living with her aunt, would indeed
be as angry at the proposal as he had been.
But might not a visit of two or three weeks open
her eyes to her new position, and prove to her
that among Christians such people as the
Osmonds were only in the minority ? He knew
enough of society to be able to estimate the
position it would accord to Erica. He knew
that her sensitiveness would be wounded again
and again, that her honesty would be shocked,
her belief in the so-called Christian world
shaken. Might not all this be salutary ? And
yet he did not like the thought ; he could not
bear sending her out alone to fight her own
battles, could not endure the consciousness that

f?he was bearing his reproach. Oh, wh}^ had
this miserable, desolating change ever occmTed ?
At this very moment she was making public
profession of a faith which could only place her
in the most trying of positions ; at this very
moment she was pledging herself to a life of
bondage and trouble ; while he, standing aside,
could see all the dangers and difficulties of her
future, and could do absolutely nothing !

It reminded him of one of the most humble
moments of his life. Walking up Regent Street
one afternoon, years ago, Erica, walking ^vith
Mrs. Craigie on the opposite side, had caught
sight of him, and regardless of the fourfold
chain of carriages, had rushed across to him
with the fearless daring of a six years' old child,
to whom the danger of horses' hoofs was a mere
nothing when compared with the desire to get
a walk with her father. His heart beat quicker
even now as he thought of the paralysing dread
of long ago, nor lead Miss Erica ever been
scolded for her loving rashness ; in this relief he
had been unable to do anything but clasp the
little hand in his as though nothing should ever
part them again.

But lier loving disregard of all danger and
difficulty was no longer inspired by love of him,
but by love of what Raeburn considered a myth
and a delusion.

In that lay the real sting. Her courage, her
suffering all seemed to him wasted, altogether
on the wrong side. Once more black gloom
fell upon him. The room grew dusk — then
dark, but still he remained motionless.

Again he was interrupted by a knock at his
door.

Signer Civitas wished to speak to him.'

He braced himself up for an interview with
some stranger, and in walked a foreigner wrapped
in a long cloak, and looking exceedingly
like a stage brigand.

He bowed, the brigand bowed too, and said
something, rapid and unintelligible, in Italian.
Then, glancing at the door to see that it was
safely closed, he made a bound to the open
window and shut it noiselessly. Raeburn quietly
reached down a loaded revolver which hung
above the mantelpiece, and cocked it, Whereupon
the brigand fell into a paroxysm of laughter,
and exclaimed, in German,

Why, my good ireful I do you not know nie V

Haeberlein !' exclaimed Auburn, in utter
amazement, submitting to a German embrace.

Eric himself and no other I' returned the
brigand. ' Draw your curtains and lock your
door and you shall see me in the flesh. I'm half
stifled in this lordly wig.'

Wait,' said Raeburn. ' Be cautious.'
He left him for a minute, and Haebcrlein
heard him giving orders that no one else was to
be admitted that evening. Then he came back,
(j^uictly bolted the door, closed the shutters, and
lit the gas. In the meantime his friend threw
off" his cloak, removed the wig of long, dark
hair and the drooping moustache and shaggy
eyebrows, revealing his natural ftice and cornu
Raeburn grasped his hand once more.

Now I feel that I've got you, Eric I' he exclaimed.
' AVhat lucky chance has brought you
so unexpectedly V

No lucky one!' said Ilaeberlciii, with an expressive
motion of the shoulders. * But of that
anon : let me look at you, old fellow — wliy,
you're as white as a miller I call yourself 
I you might pass for my grandfather !'

Raeburn, who bad a large reserve fund of
liiimour, caught up his friend's black wig from
the table and put it on above his own thick,
white hair, shoAvuig plainly enough that in face
and spirits he Alas as young as ever. It was
seven years since they had met, and they fell to
telling of reminiscences and in the happiness of
their meeting put off the more serious matters
Which must be discussed before long. It was a
good half-hour before Haeberlein alluded to the
occasion of his present visit.

Being actually in London, I couldn't resist
looking in upon you,' he said, a cloud of care
coming over his face. ' I only hope it won't
get you into a scrape. I came over to try to
avert this deplorable business about poor Kneller
— too late, I fear. And, the worst of it is, I
must have blundered somehow, for my coming
leaked out, and they are on the Avatch for me.
If I get safe across to France to-night, I shall
be lucky.'

Incautious as ever,' sighed Raeburn. ' And
tb'it Kelhier richly deserves his fate. Why
should you meddle V

I was bound to,' said Haeberlein. 'He did

mc many a gooil turn dnriiip; my exile, aud,
lliongh he has made a grave mistake, yet '

Yet you must run your eliivah-ous head into
a halter for his sake I' exclaimed Raeburn. ' You
were ever a Quixote. I shall live to see you
hand-ed vet.'

Haeberlein laughed.

No, I don't think you will,' he said, cheerfully.
' I've had some bad falls, but I've always
fallen on my feet. With a good cause, a man
has little to fear.'

If this were a good cause,' said Raeburn.
with significant emphasis.

It was the least I could do,' said Haeberlein,
with the chivalrous disregard of self which was
his eliief characteristic. ' I only fear that my
coming here may involve you in it — which heaven
forefend ! I should never forgive myself if
I injured your reputation.'

Raebiu'n smiled rather bitterly.

You need not fear that. My reputation has
long been at the mercy of all the lying braggarts
in the country. ^Icn label me socialist
one day, individualist the next. I become communist
or egotist, as is most convenient to the

speaker and most damaging to myself. But
there,' he exclaimed, regaining the tranquil
serenity which characterised him, ' why should
I rail at the world when I might be talking to
you ? How is my old friend Hans V

The sound of a key in the latch startled them.

It is only Erica,' said Raeburn. ' I had forgotten
she Alas out.'

My pretty little namesake ! I should like to
see her. Is she still a zealous little atheist?'

No, she has become a Christian,' said Raeburn,
speaking with some effort.

So !' exclaimed Haeberlein, without further
comment. He himself was of no particular
creed ; he was just indifferent, and the zeal of
his friend often sm-prised him.

Raeburn went out into the passage, drew
Erica into the front sitting-room, and closed the
door.

There is an old friend of yours in my study,'
he said. ' He wishes to see you, but you must
promise secresy, for he is in danger.'

Is it Herr Haeberlein ?' asked Erica.

Yes, on one of his rash, kindly errands, but
one of which I don't approve. However, his

Avctrk is over, and wc unit try to trot him safely
uif to France. Come in Avitli me if von will, ].)nt
T-wanted to tell you about it first, so that you
should not be mixed up with this against your
Avill, Which "Would be unfair.'

'Would it?' said Erica, smiling, as she slipped
her hand into his.

Haeberlein had taken a newspaper out of his
pocket, and was searching for something. The
gaslight fell on his clean-shaven face, revealing
a sweet-tempered mouth, keen blue eyes, a
broad German forehead, and closely-cropped,
iron-grey hair. price thought him scared'
altered since their last meeting. He threw
down his newspaper as she approached.

Well, my llerzhldttchen F he exclaimed, saluting
her with a double kiss, 'so you are not
ashamed of you* old friend ? So,' holding herat
arms' length and regarding her critically,
lion-hearted as ever, I see, and ten thousand
times prettier. Potztausend ! the English girls
do brat ours all to nothing. Well, my TAehchcih
dost thou remember the day when thou earned
the C'asati despatches in thy geography-book
under Ie very nose of a spy? It was a brave

deed that, and it saved a brave man's life

Erica smiled and coloured. ' I was not so
brave as I seemed,' she said. *My heart was
beating so loud, I thought people must hear it.'

Hast thou never heard the saying of the first
Napoleon, " The bravest man is he who can
conceal his fear " ? I do not come under that
category, for I never had fear — never felt it.
Thou wouldst not dream, Herzhldttclien, that
spies are at this moment dogging my steps while
I jest here with thee V

Is that indeed true V exclaimed Erica.

They explained to her a little more of Chamberlain's
errand and the risk he ran ; he alluded to
this hopes that Raeburn might not be involved
in any unpleasant consequences. Erica gi-ew
pale at the bare suggestion.

See,' exclaimed Haeberlein, ' the little one
cares more for your reputation than you do
yourself, my friend. See what it is to have a
daughter who can be afraid for you, though she
cannot be afraid for herself? But, Lichen,
thou must not blame me for coming to see him.
Think ! — my best friend, and miseen for seven
years !'

It is worth a good deal of risk,' said Erica,
brightly. But as the terror of having her
whither's name mentioned in connection with
Herr Kelhier's once more returned to her, she
added, pleadingly, ' And you icill be careful
when you leave the house I'

Yes, indeed,' said Haeberlein. * See what a
disguise I have I'

He hastily donned the black wig, moustache,
and eyebrows, and the long Italian cloak.
Erica looked at him critically.

Art thou not satisfied T he asked.

Not a bit,' she said, promptly. ' In London
everyone would turn to look twice at such a
dress as that, which is what you want to avoid.
Besides, those eyebrows are so outrageous, so
evidently false.'

She thought for a minute.

My brown Inverness,' suggested Raeburn.

Too thick for a summer night,' said Erica,
and,' — glancing from her father to Haeberlein
' too long to look natural. T think Tom's
ulster and travelling-hat would be better.'

Commend me to a woman when you want
sound advice I' cried Haeberlein.

Erica went to search Tom's room for the
ulster, and in the meantime Haeberlein showed
his friend a paragraph in one of the evening
papers which proved to Raebnrn that the risk
was indeed very great. They were discussing
things much more gravely when Erica rem-ned.

The stations will be watched,' Haeberlein was
sang.

'What station do you go to ?' asked Erica.

I thought of trying Cannon Street,' replied
the German.

Because,' continued Erica, 'I think you had
better let me see you off. You will look like a
young Englishman, and I shall do all the talking,
so that you need not betray your accent.
They would never dream of Herr Haeberlein
laughing and talking with a young girl.'

They would never dream that a young girl
would be brave enough to run such a risk !' said
Haeberlein. 'No, my sweet Herzhldttclien, I
could not bring thee into danger.'

There will be none for me,' said Erica, ' and
it may save you from evil and my father from
suspicion. Father, if you will let me, it would
be more of a disguise than anything.'

VOL. II. L

You might meet some one you know,' said
Raeburii.

Yt'iy unlikely,' she replied. ' And even if I
did, what would it matter ? I need not tell
them an}i:hinp^, and Herr Haeberlein would get
off all the same.'

He saw that she was too pure and too unconventional
to understand his objection, but
hi.^ Avhole heart rebelled against the idea of
letting her undertake the task, and it was only
after much ]persuasion that she drew from him a
reluctant consent. After all, it would be a great
safe-guard to Haeberlein, and Haeberlein was
his dearest friend. For no one else could he
have liked what was so precious to him. There
was very little time for discussion. The instant
his permission was given. Erica ran upstairs to
Tom's private den, lighted his gas-stove, and
made a cup of chocolate, at the same time
blackening a cork very carefully, In a few
minutes she returned to the study, carrying the
chocolate and a plate of rusks, wliicli she remembered
Avere a particular weakness of Herr
Haeberlein's. She found that in her absence
the two lead been discussing: matters aerain, for

Haeberlein met her with another remonstrance.

Liege Erica,' he began, ' I yielded just now
to thy generous proposal ; but I think it will
not do. For myself I can be rash, but not for
thee. Thou art too frail and lovely, my little
one, to be mixed up with the grim realities of
such a life as mine.'

She only laughed. ' Why, I have been mixed
up with them ever since I was a baby !'

True ; but now it is different. The world
might judge thee harshly, people might say
things which would wound thee.'

" They say ! Let them say I" ' quoted Erica,
smiling. ' Mens concha recti will carry one through
worse things than a little slander. No, no, you
must really let me have my own way. It is
right, and there's an end of it !'

Raeburn let things run their course; he
agreed with Erica all the time, though his heart
impelled him to keep her at home. And as to
Eric Haeberlein, it would have needed a far
stronger mind than that of the sweet-tempered,
Quixotic German to resist the generous help
offered by such a lovely girl.

There was no time to lose ; the latest train for

l2

the continent left at 0.25, and before Chamberlain
had adjusted his new disguise the clock
struck nine. Price very carefully blackened his
eyebrows, and ruthlessly sheared the long black
wig to an ordinary and unnoticeable length, and,
when Tom's ulster and hat were added, the
disguise Alas so perfect, and made Haeberleiu
look so absurdly young, that Raeburn himself
could not possibly have recognised him.

In past years Raeburn had often asked a
great deal for his friend. At one time his house
had been watched day and night in consequence
of his well-mown friendship with the Republican
Don Quixote. Unfortunately, therefore, it
was only too probable that Haeberleiu in rising
this visit this evening might have run into a trap.
If he Avere being searched for, his friend's house
would almost inevitably be Avatehcd.

They exchanged farewells not Without sQxno
slow of emotion on each side, and just at the last
Auburn hastily bent doAvn and kissed Erica's
forehead, at his heart a sickening sense of anxiety.
She too Alas anxious, but she Alas Avery
happy to have Juund on the cA-ending of her
baptism so unusual a service to render to her

father, and, besides, the consciousness of danger
-always raised her spirits.

When, as they had half expected, they found
the would-be-natural-looking detective prowling
up and down the civil de sac, it was no effort to
her to begin at once a laughing account of a
school examination which Charles Osmond had
told her about, and so naturally and brightly
did she talk that, though actually brushing past
the spy under the full light of the street lamp,
she entirely disarmed suspicion.

It was a horrible moment, however. Her
heart beat wildly as they passed on, and every
moment she thought she should hear quick steps
behind them. But nothing came of it, and in a
few minutes they were walling down Southampton
Row. When this was safely passed, she
began to feel comparatively at ease. Habere
they might take a cab.

Not a Hansom,' she said, quickly, as he was
on the point of hailing one. ' You would be so
much more exposed, you know !'

Haeberlein extolled her commonsense, and
they secured a four-wheeler and drove to Cannon
Street.

Talking now became mure possible. Habere
leant far back in trio corner, and spoke in
low tones.

Thou hast been my salvation, Erica,' he said,
pressing her hand. * That fellow Avould never
have let me pass in the Italian costing. Thou
wert right as usual, it was theatrical, — how do
you call, — stage, is it not ?'

I am a little troubled about your mouth.'
said Erica, smiling, * the moustache doesn't disguise
it, and it looks so good-tempered and like
itself. Can't you feel severe just for half an hoi* .''

Ilaeberlein smiled his irresistibly sweet smile,
and tried to comply with her Lavishes, but nut
very successfully.

'I think,' said Erica, presently, 'it will be the
best way, if you don't mind, for you just to stroll
through the booking ofHce while I take your
ticket. I can meet you by the bookstall and I
will still talk for us both in case you betray
you* accent.'

^ Ilerzhldttchen r exclaimed Haeberleiiu 'how
shall 1 ever repay thee ! Thou art a real canny
little Scot! I only wish 1 had half tliy caution
and forethought.'

Don't look like that I' said Erica, laughing, as
the benignant expression once more came over
his lips. ' Yon really must try to turn down the
corners ! Your character is a silent, morose
misanthrope. 1 am the chatterton, pure and
simple.'

They were both laughing when they drew
near to the station, but a sense of the risk sobered
Haeberlein, and Erica carried out her programme
to perfection. It was rather a shock to
her, indeed, to find a detective keenly inspecting"
all Who went to the ticket office. He stood so
close to the pigeon-hole that Erica doubted
whether Herr Haeberlein's eyebrows, improved
though they were, could possibly have escaped
detection. It required all her self-command to
prevent her colour from rising and her fingers
from trembling as she received the ticket and
the change under that steady scrutiny. Then
she passed out on to the platform and found
that Heir Haeberlein had been wise enough to
buys the paper which least sympathised with his
views, and in a few minutes he was safely disposed
in the middle of a well filled carriage.

Erica took out her watch. There were still

tlux'C minutes before the train started, three
long, interminable minutes ! She looked down
the platform, and her heart died Within her ;
for, steadily advancing towards them, she saw
two men making careful searle in every
carriage.

Herr llaeberlein was sitting with his back to
the engine. Between him and the door sat a
lady with a copy of the GnipJdc on her knee.
If she could only have been persuaded to read
it, it might have made an effectual screen. She
tried to will her to take it up, but without success.
And still the detectives moved steadily
forward with their keen scrutiny.

Erica was in despair. Herr llaeberlein imagined
himself safe now, and she could not warn
him without attracting the notice and rousing
the suspicion of the passengers. To complete
her misery, she saw that he had pushed his wig
a little on one side, and through the black hair
she caught a glimpse of silvery grey.

Her heart beat so fast that it almost choked
her, but still she forced herself to talk and laugh,
though every moment the danger drew nearer.
At the very last moment, an inspiration came to

her. The detectives were examining: the next

'to

They are taking things in the most leisurely
way to-night !' she exclaimed. ' I'm tired of
waiting. I shall say good-bye to you, and go
home, I think.'

As she spoke, she opened the carriage-door,
stepped in, and demonstratively kissed her silent
companion, much to the amusement of the passengers,
who had been a good deal diverted by
her racy conversation and the grumpy replies of
the traveller. There was a smile on every face
when one of the detectives looked in. He
glanced to the other side of the carriage, and
saw a dark-haired young man in an ulster, and a
pretty girl taking leave of her lover. Erica's face
entirely hid Herr Haeberlein's from view, and
the man passed on with a shrug and a smile.
She had contrived to re-adjust his wig, and,
with many last words, managed to spin out the
remaining time, till at last the welcome signal of
departure was given.

Haeberlein's mouth relaxed into a benignant
smile, as he nodded a farewell; then he discreetly
composed himself into a sleeping posture,

Avliilu YA'icii. stood oil the platonic and waved
her handkerchief.

As she moved away, the two detectives passed
by her.

Not there ! at any rate,' she heard one of
them .say. ' ^laybe they got him by the nine
o'clock at Waterloo.'

More likely trapped him in Guilford Ten-ace,*
replied the other.

Erica, shaking with suppressed laughter, saw
the men leave the station ; and then, springing
into a cab, drove to a street in the neighbourhood
of Guilford Square.

N(jw that her Avork was over, she began to
feel what a terrible strain it had been. At first
she lay back in the corner of the cab in a state
of dreamy peace, watching the gaslit streets,
the hunting passengers, with a comfortable
sense of security and rest. But when she was
set down near Guilford Square, her courage,
which in real danger had never failed her, suddenly
ebbed away, and left her merely a young
girl, with aching brick and weary limbs, with
a shrinking dislike; of walking alone so late in
the evening. Worst of all, her old childish

panic had take hold of her once more; her
knees trembled beneath her, as she remembered
that she must pass the spy, who would assuredly
still be keeping watch in Guilford Terrace. The
dread of being secretly watched had always
been a torment to her. Spies, sometimes real,
sometimes imaginary, had been the terror of her
childhood — had taken the place of the ghost and
bogey panics which assail children brought up
in other creeds.

The fact was she had been living at very high
pressure, and she was too much exhausted to
conquer her unreasonable fright, which increased
every moment, until she was on the point of
going to the Osmonds, willing to frame any
excuse for so late a visit, if only she could get
one of them to walk home with her. Honesty
and shame hindered her, however. AVith a
great effort of will, she forced herself to pass the
door, horrified to find how nearly selfish cowardice
had induced her to draw her friends into
suspicion. Echoes of the hymns sung at her
baptism and at the subsequent confirmation rang
in her ears. She walked on more bravely.

By the time she reached Guilford Terrace, she

lead herself quite in hand. And it Alas Avell : for,
as she walked down the dreary little alley, a
dark form emerged from the shadow, and suddenly
confronted her.

Anyone might reasonably be a little startled
by having a sudden pause made before them by
an unknown person on a dark night. Erica
thought she could exactly sympathise With a
shying horse; she felt very much inclined to
swerve aside. Fortunately she betrayed no
fear, only a little surprise, as she lifted her head
and looked the man full in the face, then moved
on with quiet dignity. She felt him follow her
to the very door, and purposely she took out
her latch-key With great deliberation, and allowed
him, if he pleased, to take a quiet survey of
the passage while she rubbed her boots on the
mat ; then, with a delicious sense of safety, she
closed the door on the unfriendly gaze.

In the meantime, Raeburn lead spent a miserably
anxious evenings regretting his rash permission
for Erica to go, regretting his own
enforced inaction, regretting In's Avdl-known
and indispensable face and form, almost regretting
that his friend had visited him. Like

Erica, he was only personally brave ; he could
not be brave for other people. Actual risk he
would have enjoyed, but this anxious waiting
was to him the keenest torture.

When at length the age-long hour had passed,
and he heard the front door close, he started up
With an exclamation of relief, and hurried out
into the passage. Erica greeted him with her
brightest smile.

All safe,' she said, following him into the
study. * He is well on his way to Folkestone,
and we have eluded three spies.'

Then, with a good deal of humour, she related
the whole of the adventure, at the same
time taking off her hat and gloves.

And you met no one you knew V asked
Raeburn.

Only the bishop who baptized and confirmed
me this evening, and he of course did not
recognise me.'

As she spoke, she unbuttoned her ulster, disclosing
beneath it her white serge dress.

Raeburn sighed. Avoids and sight both reawakened
a grief which he would fain have put
from him.

But Enca came ami sat down on the hearth-rug,
and nestled up to him just as usual.

I am so tired, padre mio /' she exclaimed.
But it has been well worth it.'

Raebuni did not answer. She looked up in
his face.

What are you thinking V

1 was thinking that few people had such an
ending to their confirmation day,' said Raebm-n.

I thank God for it,' said Erica. ' Oh ! father,
there is so much, so very much, we still have in
common ! And I am so glad this happened
to-night of all nights I'

He stroked her hair caressingly, but did not
*speak.

CHAPTER Vii

THE NEW RELATIONS.

For all men live and judge amiss
Whose talents jump not just with his.

Hudihras.

Comfortable moles, whom what they do
'leaches the limit of the just and true,
(And for such doing they require not eyes.

Matthew Arnold.

One bright afternoon about a week after this,
Erica found herself actually in the train, and on
her way to Greyshot. At first she had disliked
the idea, but her father had evidently wished
her to accept the invitation, and a hope of uniting
agaui the two families would have stimulated
her to a much more formidable undertaking
than a ^^isit of a few weeks to perfect strangers.
She knew nothing of the proposal made to her
father ; her own letter had been most Ind, and

after all, though slice did not like the actual
leaving home, she could not but look forward
to a rest and change after the long summer
months in town. moreover, Aunt Jean had just
returned, after a brief holiday, and the home
atmosphere for the last two or three days had
been very trying ; she felt as if a change would
make her better able to bear the small daily
frets and annoyances, and not unnaturally looked
forward to the delicious rest of unity. A Christian
home ought to be delightful ; she had never
stayed in one, and lead a high ideal.

It was about six o'clock by the time she
reached her journey's end, and, waiting for heron
the platform, she had no difficulty in recognising
her aunt, a taller and fairer edition of
Mrs. Craigie, who received her-with a kind, nervous,
diffident greeting, and seemed very anxious
indeed about her luggage, wliieli was
speedily brought to light by the footman, and
safely conveyed to the carriage. Erica, used
to complete independence, felt as if she were
being transformed into a sort of grown-up baby,
as she was relieved of her bag and umbrella,
and guided down the steps, aud assisted into

the open landau, and carefully tucked in with a
carriage rug.

I hope you are not over-tired with the journey
?' inquired her aunt, with an air of the
kindest and most anxious solicitude.

Accustomed to a really hard life in London
Erica almost laughed at the idea of being overturned
by such a short journey.

Oh, I have enjoyed it, thank you,' she replied.
' What a lovely line it is !'

'Is it ?' said her aunt, a little surprised. ' I
didn't know it was considered specially pretty,
and I myself am never able to look much at the
scenery in travelling ; it always gives me a
headache.'

What a pity !' said Erica. ' It is such a
treat, I think. In fact, it is the only way in
which I have seen what people call scenery. I
never stayed in the country in my life.'

My dear, is it possible !' exclaimed Mrs. Fane-smith,
in a horrified voice. ' Yet you do not
look pale. Do you mean that you have spent
your whole life in town V

I was at Paris for two years,' said Erica ;
and twice I have spent a Httle time at the s^a-
VOL. II. M

side ; and, years and years ago, father was once
taken ill at Southampton, and we went to him
there — that was almost Hke the country — I
mean, one could get country walks. It was
delightful ; there is a splendid avenue, you
know, and oh, such a common I It was in the
spring-time. I shall never forget the yellow
gorse and the hawthorns, and such beautiful
velvety grass.'

Her enthusiasm pleased her aunt ; moreover,
it was a great relief to find the unknown niece
well-bred and companionable, and not overburdened
with shyness. Already Mrs. Fane-smith
loved her, and felt that the invitation,
which she had given really from a strong sense
of duty, was likely to give her pleasure instead
of discomfort. All the way home, while Erica
admired the Greyshot streets, and asked questions
about the various buildings, sirs. Fane-smith
was rejoicing that so fair a ' brand,' as
she mentally expressed it, had been plucked
from the burning,' and resolving that she Avould
adopt her as a second daughter, and, if possible,
induce her to adopt their name, and drop the
notorious * Raeburn.' The relief was gTcat, for

on the way to the station Mrs. Face-Smith had
been revolving the unpleasant thought in her
mind that ' Really there was no knowing, Erica
might be " anything," since her mother was a
nobody." '

At last they drew up before a large house in
the most fashionable of the Greyshot squares,
the windows and balconies of which were gay
with flowers.

We shall find Rose at home, I expect,' said
Mrs. Fane-Smith, leading Erica across a marble-paved
hall; and even as she spoke a merry
voice came from the staircase, and down ran a
fair-haired girl, with a charmingly eager and
nice manner.

Erica had guessed what she must be from
the quaint and kindly-meant letter which she
had sent her years before, and though five years
in society had somewhat artificially Rose, she
still retained much of her childishness and impetuous
honesty. She slipped her arm into her
cousin's, and took her off to her room at once.

I am so glad you have come !' she exclaimed.
I have been longing to see you for years and
years. Mamma has been talking so much about

your cleverness and niy stupidity that just at
the last I felt quite in a fright lest you should
bo too dreadfully ** blue." I looked out of the
craving-room window for you, and if you had
been very forbidding, 1 should have received
you in state in the drawing-room, but you were
so charmingly pretty that I was obliged to rush
down headlong to meet you.'

Erica laughed and blushed, not being used to
such Inroad compliments. In the meantime,
they had traversed several flights of stairs, and
Rose, opening a door, showed her into a spacious
bed-room, most luxuriously fitted up.

This great big room for me !' exclaimed
Enca.

Tt isn't at all ghostly,' said Rose, reassuring.
'Will veni be afraid if you have a night-light ?'

Erica laughed at the idea of being afraid :
she was merely amused to think of herself established
in such a palatial bed-room, such a contrast
to her little book-lined room at home.
There was a dainty little book-case hero. In )w-
ever, with some beautifully bound books, and in
another minute she was delightedly scanning
their titles, and, With a joyous exclamation, had

caught up Browning's ' Christmas Eve and Easter
Day,' when a sound of dismay from her cousin
made her laughingly put it down again.

Oh, dear me !' said Rose, in a despairing
voice, ' I am afraid, after all, you are dreadfully
blue. Fancy snatching up a Browning like
that !'

Erica began to unlock her trunk.

Do you want your things out ?' said Rose.
I'll ring for Gemma ; she'll unpack for you.'

Oh, thank you,' said Erica, ' I would much
rather do it myself.'

But it is nearly dinner-time, we are dining
early this evening, and you Avill want Gemma to
help you to dress.'

Oh, no,' said Erica, laughing, ' I never had a
maid in my life I'

'How funny,' said Rose, 'I shouldn't know
what to do without one. Gemma does
everything for me, at least everything that
Elspeth will let her.'

Is she Italian ?' asked Erica.

Oh, no, her name is really Jemima, but that
was quite too dreadfully ugly, you know, and
she is such a pretty girl.'

She chattered on wliilc f]rica unpacked and
put on Ikt white serge, then they went down to
the drawing-room. where Erica was introduced
to her host, a small elderly man, who looked as
if Indian sun had partially frizzled him. He received
her kindly, but with a sort of ceremonious
stiffness Which made her feel less perfectly at her
ease than before, and after the usual remarks
about the length of the journey and the beauty
of the weather he relapsed into silence, 
everyone from his arm-chair as though he
were passing mental judgments on every foolish
or ti-fling remark uttered. In reality, he
was taking in every particular about Erica.
He looked at lier broad forehead, overshadowed
by the thick smooth waves of short auburn
hair ; observed her golden-brown eyes which
were just now as clear as amber ; noted the
creamy whiteness and delicate colouring of her
complexion, which indeed defied criticism —
even the criticism of such a critical man as ]\[r.
Fanc-Smitli, The nose was perhaps a trifle too
\n]\<j;, i]\v. clin too proiuinc'iit, for ideal beauty,
but greater regularity of feature could hue have
rendered less cpuiint, less powerful, and less

attractive the strangely winsome face. It was
only the mouth which he did not feel satisfied
^vith, — it added character to the face, but he
somehow felt that it betokened a nature not
easily led, not so gentle and pliable as he
could have wished. It shut so very firmly,
and the under-lip was a little thinner and
straighter than the other and receded a little
from it, giving the impression that Erica had
borne much suffering;, and had exercised arrest
self-restraint.

Mrs. Fane-Smith saw in her a sort of miniature
and feminine edition of the Luke Raeburn
whom she remembered eight-and-twenty years
before in their Scottish home. When Rose
had gone into the back drawn-room to fetch
her rebels, she di*ew Erica towards her, and,
kissing her again, said in a low, almost frightened
voice,

You are very like what your father was.'
But just at that moment Mr. Fane-Smith asked
some sudden question, and his wife, starting
and colouring as though she had been detected
in wrong-doing, hurriedly and nervously devoted
herself to what seemed to Erica a 

roiindaljout answer. V>y the time it was
fairly cikUmI, dinner was announced, and the
Strangeness of the atmosphere of this ik.'w
home struck more and more upon Erica and
chilled her a little. The massive grandeur of
the old oak furniture, the huge oil paintings
which she wanted really to study, the great
silver candelabra, even the two footmen and the
solemn old butler seemed to oppress her. Alii'
luxury was almost burdensome. It M-as a treat
indeed to see and use beautiful glass and china,
and pleasant to have beautiful fruit and flowers
to look at, but Erica was a Bohemian and
hated stiff ceremony. Her heart failed her
when she thought of sitting down might after
night to such an interminable meal.

Worse still, lie had taken a dislike to her
host. llcr likes and dislikes were always
characterised by Highland intensity, and something
in her aunt's husband seemed to nil)
lier the Avrong Away. ]\lr. Fane-Smith was a
retired Indian judge, a man niiieh respected in
the religious world, and in this way a really
good man : but n n doubt ely this sympathies
were narrow and his creed hard. Closely

entwined with much true and active Christianity
he had allowed to spring up a choking overgrowth
of hard criticism; of intolerance, of
domineering dogmatism. He was one of those
men who go about the world, trying, not to find
points of union with all men, but fitting out
the most telling points of divergence. He
did this.^^-ith the best intentions, no doubt, but
as Erica's whole view of life, and of Christian
life in particular, was the direct opposite of his,
their natures inevitably jarred.

She knew that it was foolish to expect
every Christian household to be equal to the
Osmonds', but nevertheless a bitter sense of
disappointment stole over her that evening.
"Where was the sense of restful unity which
she had looked forward to? The new
atmosphere felt strange, the new order of life
this luxurious easy life — was hard to comprehend.


To add to her dislike, Mr. Fane-Smith was
something of an epicure and had a most fastidious
palate. Now, Erica's father thought scarcely
anything about what he ate — it was indeed upon
record that he had once in a fit of absence dined

Upon a plato of scraps intended for Friskarina,
while engaged in some scientific discussion Avitli
the professor ! Mr. Fane-smith, on the other
hand, though convinced that the motto of all
atheists was ' Let us eat and drink for tomorrow
we die,' criticised his food almost as severely
as he criticised human beings. The mulligatawny
was not to his taste. The curry was too
hot. He was sure the jelly Alas made with that
detestable stuff gelatine ; he Abashed his A\'ife
would forbid the cook to use it — if she had seen
old horses being led into a gelatine manufactory
as he had seen, she would be more particular !

Interspersed between these complaints was
conversation which irritated Erica even more.
It was chiefly about the sayings and doings of
people whom she did not know, and the doings
of some clergyman in a neighbouring town
seemed to receive severe censure, for Mr. Fane-smith
stigmatised him as ' A most dangerous
man, a Pelagian in disguise.* However, ho
seemed to be fond (jf labelling people with the
names of old heresies; for, presently, wlicn Rose
said something about mr. Farrant. her father
replied, coi itemptufmsly.

Everyone knows, my dear, that Mr. Farrant
liolde nnortliodox views ! AVliy, a few years ago
he was an atheist, and now he's a mere Pho-
titian !'

As no one bnt Mr. Fane-Smith had the faintest
idea what a ' Photinian ' meant, the accusation
could neither be understood nor refuted.
sirs. Fane-Smith looked very uncomfortable,
fearing that her niece might feel hurt at the
tone in which 'He was an atheist,' had been
spoken ; and indeed Erica's colour did rise.

Is that Mr. Farrant the member V she asked.

Yes,' replied her aunt, apprehensively. ' Do
you know him V

*Not personally, but I shall always honour
him for the splendid speech he made last year
on religious toleration,' said Erica.

Mr. Fane Smith raised his eyebrows, for the
same speech had made him most indignant.
However, he began to realise that, before Eiica
could become a patient recipient of his opinions
like his wife and daughter, he must root out the
false ideas which evidently still clung to her.

Mr. Farrant is no doubt a reformed character
now,' he added. ' But he is far from orthodox I

far from orthodox I At one time I am told that
lie Alas one of the Wildest young fellows in the
neighbourhood, no decent person Avould speak
to him, and though no doubt he means Avell, yet
I could never have confidence in such a man.'

I have heard a good deal about him from my
friends the Osmonds,' said Price, stimulated as
usual to side Avitli the abused. - mr. Osmond
thinks him the finest character he ever knew.'

Is that the clergyman you told me of?' interposed
Mrs. Fane-Smith, anxious to turn the
conversation.

But her husband threw in a question too.

What, Charles Osmond, do you mean — the
author of " Essays on Modern Christianity ?" '

Tes,' replied Erica.

I don't know that he is much more orthodox
than mr. Farrant,' said .Mr. Fane-Smith ; ' I consider
that he has Notion tendencies.'

Erica's colour rose and her eyes flashed.

I do not know wlieth'.-r lie is Avliat is ealK-d
orthodox or not,' she said. '15ut I do know that
he is the most Christ-lilcr nan I ever met.'

Mr. Fane-Smith looked uncomfortable. He
M'(jiild name anv number of heresies and heretics.

but, except at grace, it was against his sense of
etiquette to speak the name of Christ at table.
Even Rose looked surprised, and Mrs. Fane-smith
coloured, and at once made the move to
go.

On the plea of fetching some work. Erica
escaped to her owen room and there tried to cool
her cheeks and her temper ; but the idea of such
a man as Mr. Fane-Smith sitting in judgment
on such men as Mr. Farrant and Charles Osmond
had thoroughly roused her, and she Event down
still in a dangerous state — a touch would make
her anger blaze up.

'Are you fond of knitting?' asked her aunt,
malting room for her on the sofa, and much relieved
to find that her niece was not of the unfeminine
' blue ' order.

I don't really like any work,' said Erica, ' but,
of course, a certain amount must be done, and I
like to knit my father's socks.'

Mr. Fane-Smith, who had just joined them,
took note of this answer, and it seemed to surprise
and displease him, though he made no
remark.

Did he think that atheists didn't wear socks ?

or that tliL'ir daughters couhhi't knit f thought
Erica to herself, with a little resentful inward
laugh.

The fact was that Mr. Fane-Smith saw more
and more plainly that the niece whom his wife
was so anxious to adopt was by no means his
ideal of a convert. Of course he was really and
honestly thankful that she had adopted Christianity,
but it chafed him sorely that she had
not exactly adopted his own views, lie was a
man absolutely convinced that there is but one
form of truth (and an exceedingly narrow form
he made it) for all mankind. He — Mr. Fane-smith
— had exactly grasped the whole truth,
and whoever swerved to the right or to the
left, it" only by a hair's-breadth, was, he considered,
in a dangerous and lamentable condition.
Ah I he thought to himself, if only he had
had from the beginning the opportunity of
influencing Erica, instead of that dangerously
broad Charles Osmond ! It did not strike him
that he had had the opportunity ever since his
return to England, but had entirely declined to
admit an atheist to his house. Other Urn had
laboured, and he had entered into the fruit of

their labours, and not finding it quite to his
taste, fancied that he could have managed much
better.

There are few sadder things in the world than
to see really good and well-intentioned men
fighting for what they consider the religious
cause with the devil's weapons. Mr. Fane-smith
would have been dismayed if anyone
could have shown him that all his life he had
been struggling to suppress unbelief by what
was infinitely worse than sincere unbelief — denunciation
often untrue, always unjust, invariably
uncharitable. He would have been almost
broken-hearted could he have known that his
hard intolerance, his narrowness, his domineering
injustice had not deterred one soul from
adopting the views he abhorred, but had, on
the contrary, done a great deal to drive into
atheism those who were wavering. And this
evening, even while lamenting that he had not
been able to train up his niece exactly in the
opinions he himself held, he was all the time
trying her faith more severely than a whole
regiment of atheists could have tried it.

The time passed heavily enough. When two

people ill the room aru unhappy and uncomfortable,
a sense of unrest generally falls upon
the other occupants. Hose yawned, talked fitfully
about the gaieties of the coming week,
worked half a leaf on an antimacassar, and sang
three or four silly little coquettish songs Which
somehow jaiTcd on everyone.

Mrs. Fane-Smith, feeling anxious and harassed,
afraid alike of vexing her husband and offending
her niece, talked Friendly and laboriously.
Erica turned the heel of her sock and responded
as well as she could, her sensitiveness recoiling
almost as much from the laboured and therefore
oppressive kindness, as from the instating and
naiTOW^ censure which Mv. Fane-Smith dealt
out to all the world.

Family prayers followed. It Alas the first
time she had ever l)een present at such a household
gathering, and the idea seemed to her a
very beautiful one. But the function proved so
formal and lifeless that it chilled her more than
anything. Yet her relations were so very kind
to her personally that she blamed herself for
feeling disappointed, and struggled hard to
pierce through the outer shell, which she knew

only concealed their real goodness. She knew,
too, that she had herself to blame in part ; her
over-sensitiveness, her quick temper, her want
of deep insight had all had their share in making
that evening such a blank failure.

Mrs. Fane-Smith went with her into her bedroom
to see that she had all she wanted. Though
the September evening was mild, a fii-e blazed
in the gate, much to Erica's astonishment. Not
on the most freezing of winter nights had she
ever enjoyed such a luxury. Her aunt explained
that the room looked north, and, besides,
she thought a fire was cheerful and homelike.

You are very kind,' said Erica, warmly ; * but
you know I mustn't let you spoil me, or I shall
not be fit to go back to the home life, and I
want to go home much more fit for it.'

Something in the spontaneous warmth and
confidence of this speech cheered Mrs. Fane-smith.
She wished above all things to win her
niece's love and confidence, and she wisely
reserved her proposal as to the matter of a home
for another tune. It was necessary, however,
that she should give Erica a hint as to the topics
likely to irritate Mr. Fane Smith.

VOL. II. N

I think, dear,' she began, ' it would be as
well if, when my husband and Rose are present,
you are careful not to speak of your father.
You won t mind my saying this ; but I know it
displeases my husband, and I think you misunderstand
that there are objections — society,
you know, and public opinion ; we must consult
it a little.'

Mrs. Fane-Smith grew nervous and incoherent,
threw her anus round her niece neck,
kissed her most affectionately, and wished her
good-night.

When she had left the room, Erica's repressed
indignation blazed up. We fear it must be
recorded that she fairly stamped with anger.

Wounded in her tenderest part, indignant at
the insult to lier father, ashamed of her own
want of control, miserably perplexed by her
new surroundings, it was long before she could
compose herself. She paced up and down the
richly-furnished room, struggling hard to conquer
her anger. At lengt]i,by a happy impulse,
she caught up lie-r Prayer-book, checked her
longing to walk rapidly to and fro, sat down on
the Indian rug before the lire, and read the

evening psalm. It happened to be the thirty-seventh.
Nothing conch have calmed her so
effectually as its tender exhortation, its wonderful
sympathy with human nature. 'Fret not
thyself, else shalt thou be moved to do evil.
Put thon thy trust in the Lord, and be doing
good. Put thy trust in Him, and He will bring
it to pass.'

She closed the book, and sat musing, her
anger quite passed away.

All at once she recollected old Elspeth, the
nurse. Her father had charged her with many
messages to the faithful old servant, and so had
her aunt. She felt ashamed to think that she
had been several hours in the house without
delivering them. Rose's room was close to hers.
She went out, and knocked softly at the door.

I just came to see whether Elspeth was here,'
she said, rather dismayed to find the candles out,
and the room only Halted by the red glow from
the fire.

Rose, who had had no temper to conquer, was
already in bed.

Still in your dress !' she exclaimed. ' I believe
you've been at that Browning again.

But did no one come to help you ? I Rent
Gemma

*I didn't want help, thank you,' said Erica.
I only wanted to see Elspeth, because I have a
message for her.'

How conscientious you are I' said Rose, laughing.
* I always make a point of forgetting messages
when I go from home ! Well, you Avill
find Elspeth in the little room on the next half-landing,
the work-room. She was hero not two
minutes ago. Good night ! Breakfast is at
nine, you know : and they'll bring you a cup of
tea when they call you.'

A little shyly. Erica made her way to the
work-room, Adhere Elspeth was tacking frilling
into one of Hose's dresses. The old woman
started up with a quick exclamation, when she
appeared in the doorway.

May I come in ?' said Erica, with all the charm
of manner which she had inherited from her
father. * 'Tis very late, lout I didn't hkc to go to
bed without seeing you.'

I hope missis has everything she wants ?*
asked Elspeth, anxiously.

'Yes, indeed I' said Erica. 'AH 1 want is to

see yon, aud to give you my father's love ; to
ask how you are. He and Aunt Jean have often
told me about you. You have not forgotten
them r

Forgotten ! No, indeed !' cried old Elspeth.
When 1 saw you at " Takin' the book," and
saw you so like your poor father, I could have
cried. You are Mr. Luke's bairn, and no mistake,
my bonnie lassie ! Ah, I mind the day well
when he came to my room — the auld nursery in
the parsonage, where I had reared him — and
told me that master had ordered him out of the
house. 1 pray God I may never again see a
face look as his looked then !'

Tears started to her eyes at the recollection.
Erica threw her arms round her neck, and kissed
her.

You love him still. I see you love him !' she
exclaimed, all her feeling of isolation melting in
the assurance of the old servant's sympathy.

So, after all. Erica had a maid in attendance ;
for Elspeth insisted on seeing her to bed, and,
since they talked all the time about the old
Scotch days, she was well content to renounce
her independence for a little while.

But, whether because of the flickering .
or because of the strangeness of the great
brass bedstead, with its silken hangings and
many-coloured Indian rozai, Enca slept very
little that night. Perhaps the long talk about
her father's early days had taken too gi-eat a
hold of her. At any rate, she tossed about very
restlessly in her luxurious quarters, and when,
for brief intervals, she slept, it Alas only to
dream of her father taking leave of his Scottish
home, and always he bore that flint-like face,
that look of strong endurance and repressed
passion which P^lspeth had described, and which,
in times of trouble and injustice. Erica had
learnt to know so well.

CHAPTER IX.

LADY CAROLINE'S DINNER.

Te blank amaze of your haughty gaze,
The cold surprise of patrician eyes.

Lewis More is.

But the paucity of Christians is astonishing, considering

the number of them.

Leigh Hunt.

The irritation, or, at any rate,, the novelty of
the luxury in the Fane-Smiths' household wore
off after Erica had spent a few days at Grey-shot.
She became accustomed to the great
rooms, and being artistic by nature and the
reverse by education, she began very much to
enjoy the pictures, the charming variety of
foreign treasures, and particularly all the lovely
things of Indian workmanship with which the
drawing-room was crowded. The long, formal
meals she learnt to endure. The absurdly large

retinue of servants ceased to oppress her ; she
used to amuse herself by speculating as to the
political views of the men-servants I while the
luxury of a daily drive with, her aunt she very
much appreciated.

But, though the mere externals were soon
familiar enough, she found that every day increased
the difficulty she felt in becoming
accustomed to the atmosphere of this family.
She had lived all her life with people who were
overwhelmed with work, and in a home where
recreation was only the rare concession to
actual health. Here recreation seemed to bethe
business of life, while v/ork for the public
was merely tacked on as a sort of ornamental
fringe.

]mr. Fane-saith had, indeed, a few committee
meetings to attend; ]\lrs. Fane-Smith visited
her district once a fortnight, and distributed
tracts, and kind words, and soup-tickets, and
blanket-tickets, besides the most lavish gifts
from her own purse. Rose, to please her mother,
taught a class of little girls on Sunday
afternoon — that is to say, she did not teach
them, but she sat in a chair and heard them say

collects, and enforced orderly behaviour upon
them, and read them a good little story-book.
But these were merely rather tiresome duties
^vhich came in very often as provoking interruptions
to the great business of life, namely,
eating, drinking, dining out, giving dinners, or
attending the endless succession of at homes,
dances, musical evenings, amateur theatricals,
^vith T^'hich Greyshot people tried to kill
time.

As to taking any intelligent interest in the
political world, no one seemed to dream of such
a thing, except Mr. Fane-Smith, who read the
paper at breakfast, and hurled anathemas at
all the statesmen whom Erica had learnt to love
and revere. It taxed her patience to the utmost
to sit through the daily diatribe against
Sir Michael Cunningham, her hero of heroes.
But even the violent opposition seemed preferable
to the want of interest shown by the
others. Mrs. Fane-Smith had time to fritter
^Nj^way at least half-an-hour after breakfast in
the most desultory conversation, the most fruitless
discussion with Rose as to some detail of
dress ; but she always made the excuse that she

had no time* to read the papers,, and amused
Erica not a little by asking her husband if
anything particular had been happening lately,'
when they were just starting for a dinner-party.
Out of his little rechauffe of the week's
news she probably extracted enough information
to enable her to display that well-bred
interest, that vague and superficial acquaintance
with the subject which will pass muster in
society'. and which probably explains alike the
very v^ipid talk and the wildly false accusations
which form the staple of ordinary conversation.


Rose was even more perplexing. She was
not only ignorant, but she boasted of her ignorance.
Again and again Erica heard her deprecate
the introduction of any public question.

*0h, don't begin to talk of that!' she
would exclaim. * I know nothing about it, and
never mean to know anything.'

Or there would be an imploring appeal.

Why do you waste your time in talking
politics when you have never told me a word
about so-and-so's wedding?'

She occasionally read the Court Circular, and

was rather fond of one or two of the ' society '
papers, from which she used to glean choice
little paragraphs of personal gossip.

Once one of these papers gave Erica an uncomfortable
experience. The elders of the
party being out for the evening, Rose and Erica
had the drawing-room to themselves, and Erica
was really enjoying the rare novelty of talking
With a girl of her own age. Rose, although the
most arrant little flirt, was fond, too, of her
girl-friends, and she really liked Erica, and enjoyed
the fun of initiating her into all the mysteries
and delights of society.

How did you get your name V she asked,
suddenly. ' It is so pretty and so uncommon.'

Oh'' said Erica, without thinking, ' 1 was
called after my father's friend, Eric Haeberlein/

Eric Haeberlein !' exclaimed Rose. * Why ,
I was reading something about him this afternoon.
Here it is — look !' and, after searching
the columns of her favourite ' society' paper, she
pointed to the following paragraph :

It is now known as a positive fact that the
notorious Eric Haeberlein was actually in London
last week in connection with the disgraceful

Kellner business. On dlt that he escaped
detection thruiigh the instrumentality of one of
the fair sex, whose audacity outweighed her
modesty.'

Erica could hardly have restrained her indignation
had not two real dangers drawn off her
attention from her own wounded feelings. Her
father — was there any hateful hint that he was
mixed up with Ilerr Kellner ? She glanced
anxiously down the page. No, at least, that
falsehood had not been promulgated. She
breathed more freely, but there was danger
still, for Rose was watching her, and feminine
curiosity is hard to baffle.

Did you know about it?' she asked.

Erica did not reply for a moment, but read
on, to gain time; then she throw down the
paper with an exclamation of disgust.

How can you read such stuff f

Yes, but is that the Eric Haeberlein you
were named after? Did he really come to
London and escape?'

There is only one Eric Haeberlein in the
worhl that I know of,' said Erica. ' Jut I
think, Itose, I was wrong and foolish to mention

him. I can't tell yon anything about him,
and, even if I could, there is my promise to
Aunt Tsobel. If T am not to talk to you about
my father, I certainly ought not to talk about
his friends.'

Rose acquiesced, and never suspected any
mystery. She chattered on happily for the rest
of the evening, brought down a great collection
of old ball-cards, and with a sort of loving recollection
described each very minutely, just as
some old nurses have a way of doing with the
funeral-cards of their deceased friends. This
paved the way for a spontaneous confession
that she really preferred Mr. Torn the curate
of St. Matthews, to Captain Golightly, though
people were so stupid, and would say she was
in love with him just because they flirted a
little sometimes. Rose had already imagined
herself in love with at least a dozen people,, and
was quite ready to discuss every one of her
flirtations, but she was disappointed to find
that her cousin was either very reserved on the
subject, or else had nothing to say.

Erica sat listening with a sort of wonder,
not unmixed with disgust. Perhaps she might

have shown her disapprobation had she not
been thankful to have the conversation diverted
from the dangerous topic ; besides, the cruel
words were still rankling in her heart, and
woven in with Rose's chatter she heard continually,
* whose audacity outweighed her modesty.'
For the first time she fully understood
"why her fitter had so reluctantly consented to
her scheme ; she began to feel the sting which
hiy beneath the words, the veiled ' hint,' the
implied evil, more wounding, more damaging
than an outspoken lie. Now that she understood
the ways of society better, she saw, too,
that what had seemed to her an unquestionable
duty would be regarded as a grave breach of
custom and etiquette. She began to question
herself. Had she been right ? It mattered
very little what the writer in a ' society ' paper
said of her, if she had done the really right
thing. What had she done ? To same her
father's friend from danger, to save her father
from unmerited suspicion, she had gone out
late in the evening with a man considerably
over fifty, whom she Iliad known from her babyhood.
He had, it is true, been in the disguise

of a young man. She had talked to him on
the platform much as she would have talked to
Tom, and to save his almost certain detection,
had sprung into the carriage, thrown her arms
round his neck, and kissed him. Had audacity
outweighed her modesty ? Why, all the time
she had been thanking God for having allowed
her to undertake the difficult task for her father
on that particular evening. She had done it in
the sight of God, and should she now make
herself miserable because the world was wanting
in that charity which ' thicket no evil V
No, she had been right — of that she was certain.
Nevertheless, she understood well enough
that society would condemn her action, and
would with a smile condone Rose's most outrageous
flirtations.

The first week in a new place always seems
long, and Erica felt as if she had been away
from home for months by the time it was over.
Everyone had been very kind to her so far, but
except when she was playing lawn tennis she
was somehow far from happy. Her happiest
moments were really those which she spent in
her own room before breakfast, writing; and

the Daily Review owed some very lively articles
to the Greyshot visit. Beyond a sort of clan
feeling for her aunt, and a real liking for Rose —
who, in spite of her follies, was good-humoured
and very loveable — she had not yet found one
point of union with her new relations. Even
possible topics of conversation were hard to
find. They cared nothing for politics, they
cared nothing for science, they were none of
them book-lovers, and it was against their
sense of etiquette to speak of anything but the
externals of religion. Worst of all, any allusion
to home matters, any mention of her father had
t<> be avoided. Little was left but the mere
gossip of the neighbourhood, which, except as a
social study, could not interest Erica.

Greyshot was an idle place; the church seemed
asleep, a drowsy indifference hung about the
richer inhabitants, while the honest workers
not unnaturally banded themselves together
against the sleepily respectable Church-goers,
and Secularism and one or two other ' Isms '
made rapid advances. Then sleepy orthodoxy
lifted its drowsy head for a minute, noted the
evil, and abused mr. Raeburn and his ,

lamenting in many-syllabled words
the depravity of the working classes and the
rapid spread of infidelity. But nothing came of
the lament ; it never seemed to strike them that
they must act as well as talk, that they must
renounce their useless, wasteful, unChristian
lives before they had even a right to lift up
their voice against Secularism, which certainly
did in some measure meet the needs of the
people. It never seemed to strike them that
they were the real promoters of infidelity, — that
they not only dishonoured the name of Christ,
but by their inconsistent lives disgusted people
with Christianity, and then refused to have anything
more to do with them. Luke Raeburn, if
he pulled down with the one hand, at any rate
tried hard to build up with the other ; but the
people of Greyshot caused in a great degree
the ruin and downfall, and then exclaimed
How shocking !' and turned their backs, thinking
to shift their blame on to the Secularist
leaders.

As far as society goes, they succeeded in thus
shifting the blame ; the world laid it all on Luke
Raeburn, he was a most convenient scape-goat,
VOL. II.

and — so widely does conventional Christianity
differ from the religion founded by Christ — it
soon became among a certain set almost equivalent
to a religious act to promulgate bits of
personal scandal about him, flavoured of course
with wordy lamentations as to the views he
entertained. Thus, under the name of defenders
of religion, conventional Christians managed
to appear very proper and orthodox, and at the
same time to dispose comfortably of all their
sense of responsibility. There was a meanness
about their way of doing it which might have
made the very angels weep ! Happily the
judgments of society are not the judgments
of God.

One of the leaders of society was a certain
Lady Caroline Kittle ; she was a good-natured
hospitable creature, very anxious that everyone
should enjoy life, and a great favourite with all
the young people, because she made much of
them and gave delightful dances. The elders,
too, liked her, and were not oblivious to the
fact that she was the daughter of an earl, and
the widow of a distinguished general. Erica
had seen lier more than oiuHi during her visitant

had been introduced to her by Mrs. Fane-smith,
as ' my niece.'

Now, it happened that Mr. and Mrs. Fane-smith
and Rose were to dine with Lady Caroline
the week after Erica's arrival. On the
very day of the dinner-party, however, Rose
was laid up with a bad cold, and her mother
was obliged to write and make her excuses.
Late in the afternoon there came in reply one
of Lady Caroline's impulsive notes.

Dear Mrs. Fane-Smith.

Scold that silly daughter
of yours for catching cold ; give her ray love,
and tell her that I was counting on her very
much. Please bring your pretty niece instead.
Yours sincerely,

• Caroline Kittle.'

Mrs. Fane-Smith was glad and sorry at the
same time, and very much perplexed. Such a
peremptory but open-hearted invitation could
not be declined, yet there were dangers in the
acceptance. If Erica's name should transpire,
it might be very awkward, but she had not
broached the suggested change of name to her,

o2

and every day ber courage dwindled — everyday
that resolute mouth frightened her more.
She was quite aware that Erica's steady
courageous honesty would unsparingly condemn
all her small weaknesses and little
expedients.

Erica, when told of the invitation, was not
particularly anxious to go, for she and Rose had
been planning a cosy evening at home over a
new novel upon which their tastes really
agreed. However, Rose assured her that Lady
Caroline's parties were always delightful, and
hunted her off to dress at least an hour before
there was any necessity. Rose was a great
authority on dress, and, when her cousin
returned, began to study her attire very
critically.

She wore a very simply-made dress of moss-green
velveteen, high to the throat, and relieved
by a deep falling collar of old point, l^lspeth
had brought her a spray of white Banksia roses,
but otherwise she wore no ornament, leer
style was very different from her cousin's ; but
Rose could not help approving of it, its severity
suited Erica.

*Yon look lovely!' she exclaimed. 'Lady
Caroline will quite lose her heart to you I I
think you should have that dress cut low in
front, though. It is a shame not to show such
a pretty neck as you must have.'

Oh ! no said Erica, quickly ; ' father can't
endure low dresses.'

One can't always dress to please one's
father said Rose. 'For the matter of that, I
believe papa doesnH like them ; but I always
wear them. You see it is more economical, one
must dress much more expensively if one goes
in for high dresses. A little display of neck
and arms, and any old rag will look dressy and
fashionable, and though I don't care about
economy, mamma does.'

You don't have an allowance, then V

No ; papa declared I ought to dress on
eighty pounds a year, but I never could make
both ends meet, and I got a tiresome long bill
at Langdon'Sj and that vexed him, so now I get
what I like, and mamma pays.'

Erica made no comment, but was not a little
amazed. Presently Mrs. Fane-Smith came in, and
seemed well pleased with her niece's appearance.

You have the old point !' she exclaimed.

Aunt Jean gave it me said Erica. ' She
never would part with it because it was grand-mamma's
— at least, she did sell it once, when
whither was ill years ago, and we were at our
wit's end for money, but she got it back again
before the end of the year.'

Mrs. Fane-Smith coloured deeply, partly at
the idea of her mother's lace being taken to a
pawnbrokers, partly to hear that her brother
and sister had ever been reduced to such
straits. She made an excuse to take Erica
away to her room, and there questioned her
more than she had yet done about her home.

I thought your either was so strong,' she "
said. ' Yet you speak as if he had had several
illnesses.'

'lie has,' replied Erica. 'Twice I can remember
the time when they thought him dying,
besides after the riot last year. Yes, he is
strong ; but, you see, he has such a hard life.
It is bad enough now, and I doubt if anyone
knows how fearfully he over-worked himself
during the year in America. The other day I
had to look something up in his diary for him,

and not till then did I find out how terribly he
must have taxed his strength. On an average,
he got one night's rest in the week, on the others
he slept as well as he could in the long cars,
which are wretchedly uncomfortable ; the 
being expensive, he wouldn't go in
them.'

Mrs. Fane-Smith sighed. Her brother was
becoming more of a living reality to her; she
thought of him less as a type of wickedness.
The recollection, too, that she had been all her
life enjoying the money which he and her sister
Jean had forfeited by their opinions, made her
grieve the more over the little details of poverty
and privation. Old Mr. Raeburn had left all
his money to her, bequeathing to his other
daughter and to his reprobate son the sum of
one shilling, with the hope that heaven would
bring them to a better mind. It was some
comfort to learn from Erica that at last the
terrible load of debt had been cleared off, and
that they were comparatively free li'om trouble
just at present.

With these thoughts in her mind, Mrs. Fane-smith
found herself on her way to Lady Caroline's;

but her developing breadth of view was
destined to receive a severe shock. They were
the last guests to arrive, and at the very moment
of their entrance Lady Caroline was talking
in her most vivacious way to mr. Cuthbert,
a young clergyman, the vicar of one of the
Greyshot churches.

'I am going to give you a treat, Mr. Cuthbert,'
she said, laughingly. ' I know you are
artistic, and so I intend you to take down that
charming niece of Mrs. Fane-Smith's. I assure
you she is just like a Burne-Jones angel.'

]mr. Cuthbert smiled a quietly superior smile,
and coolly surveyed Erica as she came in.
Dinner was announced almost immediately,
and it was not until Mrs. Fane-Smith had
been taken down that Lady Caroline brought
Mr. Cuthbert to Erica's side to introduce him.

Why, your aunt has never told me your
name,' she said, smiling.

*My name is Erica Raeburn,' said Erica, quite
unconscious that this was a revelation to everyone,
and that her aunt had purposely spoken of
her everywhere as ' my niece.'

Lady Caroline gave a scarcely perceptible

start of surprise, and there was a curious touch
of doubt and constraint in her voice as she
pronounced the * Mr. Cuthbert — Miss Raeburn.'
Undoubtedly that name sounded rather strangely
in her drawing-room, and awoke uncomfortable
suggestions.

Raeburn ! — Erica Raeburn !' thought Mr.
Cuthbert to himself. ' Uncommon name in.
England. Connection, I wonder ! Aunt hadn't
given her name ! That looks odd. I'll see if
she has a Scotch accent.'

Are you staring in Greyshot V he asked, as
they went down the broad staircase with its
double border of flowering plants.

Yes,' said Erica ; ' I came last week. AVhat
lovely country it is about here !'

Country,' with its trilled ' r,' betrayed her
nationality, though her accent was of the slightest.
mr. Cuthbert chuckled to himself, for he
thought he had caught Mrs. Fane-Smith tripping,
and he was a man who derived an immense
amount of pleasure from making other
people uncomfortable. As a child, he had been
a tease ; as a big boy, he had been a bully ; asa
man, he had become a malicious gossip-longer.

To-night he thought he saw ;i chance
of good sport, and directly he had said grace,
in the momentary pause which usually follows,
he turned to Erica with an abrupt, though outwardly
courteous question, carried off with a
little laugh.

*I hope you are no relation to that despicable
infidel who bears your name, Miss Raeburn?'

Erica's colour deepened ; she almost annihilated
him with a flash from her bright indignant
eyes.

*I am Luke Raeburn's daughter,' she said, in
her clearest voice, and with a dignity which,
for the time, spoilt Mr. Cuthbert's enjoyment.

Many people had heard the vicar's question
during the pause, and not a few listened curiously
for the answer which, though quietly
spoken, reached many ears, for nothing gives
so much penetrating power to words as concentrated
will and keen indignation. Before
long everyone in the room knew that 's
pretty niece was actually the
daughter of ' that evil and notorious Raeburn.'

Mr. Cuthbert had certainly got his malicious
wish ; he had succeeded in making Mrs. Fane-smith

miserable, in making bis hostess furious,
in putting bis little neighbour into the most
uncomfortable of positions. Of course be was
not going to demean himself by talking to 'that
atheist's daughter.' He enjoyed the general
discomfiture to his heart's content, and then
devoted himself to the lady on his other side.

As for Erica, her blood was up. Forced to
sit still, forced even to eat at a table where she
was an unwelcome guest, her anger got the
mastery of her for the time. She was indignant
at the insult to her father, indignant, too, that
her aunt had ever allowed her to get into such
a false position. The very constraint she was
forced to put upon herself made her wrath all
the deeper. She was no angel yet, though .Mr.
Burne Jones might have taken her for a model.
She was a quick-tempered little piece of humanity
; her passions burnt with Highland intensity,
her sense of indignation was strong and keen,
and the atmosphere of her home, the hard
struggle against intolerable bigotry and malicious
persecution had from her very babyhood
tended to increase this. She had inherited all
her father's passion for justice and much of his

excessive pride, while her delicate physical
frame made her far more sensitive. Moreover,
though since that June morning in the museum
she had gained a peace and happiness of which
in the old days she had never dreamed, yet the
entire change had in many ways increased the
difficulties of her life. Such a wrench, such an .
upheaval as it had involved, could not but tell
upon her immensely. And, besides, she had in
every way for the last three months been living
at high pressure.

The grief, the disapproval, the contemptuous
pity of her Secularist friends had taxed her
strength to the utmost, but she had stood firm,
and had indeed been living on the heights.
Now the months of Charles Osmond's careful
preparation were over, her baptism was over,
and a little weary and overdone with all
that she had lived through that summer, she
had come down to Greyshot expecting rest,
and behold, fresh vexations had awaited
her !

A nice Christian world ! A nice type of a
clergyman ! she thought to herself, as bitterly
as in the old days, and with a touch of sorrow

added. The old lines from * Hiawatha,' which

had been so often on her lips, now rang in her

head,

For his heart was hot-within him,
Like a living coal his heart was.'

She longed to get up and go, but that
would have put her aunt into a yet more painful
position, and might have annoyed Lady
Caroline even more than her presence. She
would have given anything to have fainted
after the convenient fashion of the heroines of
romance, but never had she felt so completely
strung-up, so conscious of intense vitality.
There was nothing for it but endurance. And
for two mortal hours she had to sit and endure
! i\lr. Cuthbert never spoke to her ; her
neighbour on the either side glanced at her
furtively from time to time, but preserved a
stony silence ; there was an uncomfortable cloud
on her hostess's brow ; while her aunt,
whom she could see at some distance on the
other side of the table, looked very white and
wretched.

It is wonderful how rude people can be,
even in good society, and the looks of ' blank

amaze,' 'cold surprise,' and cool curiosity
which Erica received would hardly be credited.
A greater purgatory to a sensitive girl, whose
pride was by no means conquered, can hardly
be conceived.

She choked down a little food, unable to
reject everything, but her throat almost refused
to swallow it. The glare of the lights, the
oppressive atmosphere, the babel of tongues
seemed to beat upon her brain, and a sick
longing for home almost overmastered her.
Oh, to get away from these so-called Christians,
with their cruel judgments, their luxuries,
their gaieties, — these hard, rich bigots, who yet
belonged to the body she had just joined, with
whom, in the eyes of her old friends, she should
be identified I Oh, for the dear old book-lined
study at home ! for one moment with her
father I one word from a being who loved and
trusted her I Tears started to her eyes, but
the recollection that even home was no longer
a place of refuge checked them. There would
be Aunt Jean's wearing remonstrances and sarcastic
remarks ; there would be Mr. ^lastorman's
patronising contempt, and Tom's studious

avoidance of the matters she bad most at
heart. Was it worse to be treated as a well-meaning
idiot, or as an outcast and semi-heretic?
Never till now had she so thoroughly
realised her isolation, and she felt so bruised
and buffeted and weary that the realisation
at that particular time was doubly trying.

Isolation is perhaps the greatest of all trials
to a sensitive and warm-hearted nature, and
nothing but the truest and deepest love for
the whole race can possibly keep an isolated
person from growing bitter. Erica knew this,
had known it ever since Brian had brought her
the message from her mother, ' It is only love
that can keep from bitterness.' All through
these years she had been struggling hard , and
though there had been constant temptations,
though the harshness of the bigoted, the insults
offered to her father in the name of religion,
the countless slights and slanders had
tried her to the utmost, she had still struggled
upward, and in spite of all had grown in love.
But now for the first time she found herself
completely isolated. The injustice, the hardness
of it proved too much for her. She forgot

that those who would be peace-makers — reconciles,
must be content to receive the treatment
which the Prince of Peace received ; she forgot
that these rich contemptuous people were her
brothers and sisters, and that their hard judgment
did not and could not alter their relationship
; she forgot all in a burning indignation,
in an angry revolt against the injustice of the
world.

She would study these people, she would
note all their little weaknesses and foibles!
Mr. Bircham had given her carte blanche for
these three weeks; she would write him a deliciously
sarcastic article on modern society.
The idea fired her imagination, she laughed
to herself at the thought ; for, however sad
the fact, it is nevertheless true that to
ordinary mortals ' revenge is sweet.' Had
she given herself time to think out matters
calmly, she would have seen that both Christianity
and the runs of art were opposed
to her idea. It is true that Michael Angelo
and other painters used to revenge themselves
CD the cardinals or enemies they most hated
by painting them in the guise of devils, but

both they and their art suffered by such a concession
to an animal passion. And Erica fell
grievously that evening. This is one of the
evils of social ostracism. It is unjust unnatural,
and selfish. To preserve what it considers the
dignity of society, it drives human beings into
an unnatural position ; it fosters the very evils
which it denounces. And society is grossly
unfair. A word, a breath, a false libel in a
newspaper is quite sufficient. It will never
trouble itself to inquire minutely into the truth,
but will pronounce its hasty judgment, and
then ostracise !

Erica began to listen attentively to the conversation,
and it must be owned that it was not
very edifying. Then she studied the faces and
manners of her companions, and, being almost
in the middle of the table, she had a pretty
good view. Every creature she studied maliciously,
keenly, Sarcastically, until she came to
the end of the table, and there a most beautiful
face brought her back to herself for a minute
with a sort of shock. Where had she seen it
before? A strong manly face of the Roman
type, clean-shaven, save for a very slight mous-vol.

II. P

tache, which did not conceal the firm yet sensitive
mouth ; dark eyes, which even as she wondered
met hers fully for an instant, and gave
her a strange feeling of protection. She knew
that at least one person in the room did not
shudder at the idea of sitting at table with
Luke Raeburn's daughter.

Better thoughts returned to her, she grew a
little ashamed of her malice, and began to wonder
who that ideal man could be. Apparently
he was one of the distinguished guests, for he
bad taken down Lady Caroline herself. Erica
was just too far off to hear what he said, and in
another moment she was suddenly recalled to
sir. Cuthbert. He was talking to the old gentleman
on her left hand, who had been silently
surveying her at intervals as though he fancied
she could not be quite human.

Have you been following this Kellner trial V
asked Mr. Cuthbert. ' Disgraceful affair, isn't

itr

Then followed references to Eric Haeberlein,
and veiled hints about his London friends and
associates — more dangerous to the country than
any foreigners, ' traitors, heady, high-minded,'

etc., etc. Such evil-doers always managed to
keep within the letter of the law ; but, for his
part, he thought they deserved to be shut up,
more than most of those who got penal servitude
for life !

Erica's wrath blazed up again. Of course
the veiled hints were intended to refer to her
father, and the cruelty and insolence of the
speaker — who knew that she understood his
allusions — scattered all her better thoughts. It
required a strong effort of will to keep her
anger and distress from becoming plainly visible.
Her unwillingness to give Mr. Cuthbert
such a gratification could not have strengthened
her sufficiently, but love and loyalty to her
father and Eric Haeberlein had carried her
through worse ordeals than this.

She showed no trace of embarrassment, but
moved a very little further back in her chair,
implying by a sort of quiet dignity of manner
that she thought Mr. Cuthbert exceedingly ill-mannered
to talk across her.

Feeling that his malicious endeavour had entirely
failed, and stung by her dignified disapproval,
Mr. Cuthbert struck out vindictively.

p2

Breaking the silence he had maintained towards
her, he suddenly flashed round upon her with a
question.

I suppose you are intimately acquainted
with Eric Haeberlein V

He tried to make his tone casual and seemingly
courteous, but failed.

What makes you suppose that?' asked Erica,
in a coo] , quiet voice.

Her perfect self-control, and her exceedingly
embarrassing counter-question, quite took him
aback. At that very minute, too, there was the
pause, and the slight movement, and the glance
from Lady Caroline which reminded him that
he was the only clergyman present, and had to
return thanks. He bent forward, and went
through the usual form of ' For what we have
received,' though all the time he was thinking
of the ' counter-check quarrelsome " he had
received from his next-door neighbour. When
he raised his head again, he found her awaiting
his answer, her clear, steady eyes quietly fixed
on his face with a l()t)k which was at once sad,
indignant, and questioning.

His question had been an insulting one. He

bad meant it to prick and sting, but it is one
thing to be indirectly rude, and another to give
the ' lie direct.' Her quiet return question, her
dignity, made it impossible for him to insult her
openly. He was at her mercy. He coloured a
little, stammered something incoherent about
thinking it possible.'

You are perfectly right,' replied Erica, still
speaking in her quietly dignified voice. ' I have
known Herr Haeberlein since I was a baby, so
you will understand that it is quite impossible
for me to speak with you about him after hearing
the opinions you expressed just now.'

For once in his life Mr. Cuthbert felt ashamed
of himself. He did not feel comfortable all
through dessert, and gave a sigh of relief when
the ladies left the room.

CHAPTER X,

A FRIEND.

Then, my friend, we must not regard what the many say
of us ; but what he, the one man who has understanding of
just and unjust, will say, and what the truth will say. And
therefore you begin in error when you suggest that we
should regard the opinion of the many about just and unjust,
good and evil, honourable and dishonourable.

Plato.

In the drawing-room Erica found the ostracism
even more complete and more embarrassing.
Lady Caroline, who was evidently much annoyed,
took not the slightest notice of her, hut was
careful to monopolise the one friendly-looking
person in the room, a young married lady in
pale blue silk. The other ladies separated into
groups of twos and threes, and ignored her existence.
Lady Caroline's little girl, a child of
twelve, was well-bred enough to come towards

her "with some sby remark, but her mother
called her to the other side of the room quite
sharply, and made some excuse to keep her
there, as if contact with LukeRaeburn's daughter
would have polluted her.

A weary half-hour passed. Then the door
opened and the gentlemen filed iu. Erica, half
angry, half tired, and wholly miserable, was revolving
in her brain some stinging sentences
for her article when the beautiful face again
checked her. Her 'Roman,' as she called him,
had come in, and was looking round the room,
apparently searching for someone. At last
their eyes met, and, with a look which said as
plainly as words — ' Oh , there you are ! it was
you I wanted,' he came straight towards her.

You must forgive me, Miss Raeburn, for dispensing
with an introduction,' he said ; ' but I
hardly think we shall need any except the name
of our mutual friend, Charles Osmond.'

Erica's heart gave a bound. The familiar
name, the consciousness that her wretched
loneliness was at an end, and above all, the
instantaneous perception of the speaker's nobility
and breadth of mind, scattered for the time

all her resentful thoughts — made her again her
best self.

'Then you must be Donovan I' she exclaimed,
•^vith the quaint and winsome frankness which
was one of her greatest charms. ' I knew — I
was sure you were not like other people.'

He took her hand in his and no longer wondered
at Brian's seven years' hopeless waiting.
But Erica began to realise that her exclamation
had been appallingly unconventional, and the
beautiful colour deepened in her cheeks.

I beg your pardon she said, remembering
with horror that he was not only a stranger
but an M.P., ' I — I don't know what made me
say that, but they have always spoken of you
by your Christian name, and you have so long
been " Donovan " in my mind that — somehow it
slipped out — you didn't feel like a stranger.'

I am glad of that,' he said, his dark and
strangely powerful eyes looking right into hers.
Something in that look made her feel positively
akin to him. Like a stranger! Of course he
had not felt like one ! Never could be like anything
but a friend! 'You see,' he continued,
W(j have known of each other for years, and we

know that we have one great bond of union
which others have not. Done retract the
*' Donovan " — I like it. Let it be the outward
sign of the real and unusual likeness in the fight
we have fought.'

She still half hesitated. He was a man of
five and thirty, and she could not get over the
feeling that her impulsive exclamation had been
presumptuous. He saw her uncertainty, and
perhaps Liked her the better for it, though the
delicious naturalness, the child-like recognition
of a real though scarcely known friend, had delighted
him.

'We are a little more brother and sister than
the rest of the world he said, with the chivalrous
manner which seemed to belong naturally
to his peculiarly noble face. ' And if I were to
confess that I had not always thought of you
as " Miss Raeburn " '

He paused, and Erica laughed. It was absurd
to stand on ceremony with this kindred spirit.

'Have you seen the conservatory?' he asked.
'Shall we come in there? I want to hear all
about the Osmonds.'

The relief of speaking with one who knew

and loved Charles Osmond, and did not, for
want of real knowledge, brand him with the
names of half-a-dozen heresies, was very great.
It was not for some time that Erica even glanced
at the lovely surroundings, though she had inherited
Raeburn's great love of flowers. At
last, however, an exquisite white flower attracted
her notice, and she broke off in the
middle of a sentence.

Oh, how lovely I I never saw anything like
that before. What is it V

It is the cucharis amazonian'' replied her companion.
'About the most exquisite flower iu
the world, I should think — the " dove flower,"
as my little ones call it. If you look at it from
a distance, the stamens really look like doves
bending down to drink.'

It is perfect ! Ilow^ I wish my father could
see it !'

We have a fairly good one at Oaken,
though not equal to this. We must persuade
you and I\Ir. Auburn to come and stay with us
some day.'

The tears came into Erica's eyes, so great
was the contrast between this friendliness and

the chilling discourtesy she had met with from
others that evening.

You are very good she said. ' If you only
knew how hard it is to be treated as if one were
a sort of semi-criminal !'

I do know,' he said. ' It was this very society
which goaded me into a sort of wild rebellion
years ago. I deserved its bad opinion
in a measure, and you do not, but it was unfair
enough to make one pretty desperate.'

If they Avere actual saints, one might endure
it,' cried Erica. ' But to have such a man as
my father condemned just on hearsay by people
who are living lazy wasteful lives is really too
much ! I came to Greyshot expecting at least
unity, at least peace in a Christian atmosphere,
and tins is what I get !'

Donovan listened in silence, a great sadness
in his eyes. There was a pause ; then Erica
continued :

You think I speak hotly. I cannot help it.
I think I do not much mind what they do tome,
but it is the injustice of the thing that
makes one wild, and worst of all the knowing
that this is what drives people into atheism —

this is what dishonours the name of Christ.'

You are right,' he replied, with a sigh —
that is the worst of it. I have come to the
conclusion that to be tolerant to the intolerant
is the most difficult thing in life.'

You must have plenty of practice in this
dreadful place,' said Erica.

He smiled a little.

Why, to be seen talking to me will make
people say all sorts of evil of you,' she added.
I wish I had thought of that before.'

You wouldn't have spoken to me?' asked
Donovan, laughing. * Then I am very glad it
didn't occur to you. But about that you maybe
quite easy — nothing could make them think
much worse of me than they do already. T
began life as the black sheep of the neighbourhood,
and it is easier for the Ethiopian to
change his skin than for a man to live down
the past in public opinion. I shall be, at any
rate, the dusky grey sheep of the place to the
end of my life.'

The was no bitterness, no shade of complaint
in his tone ; he merely stated a fact.
Erica was amazed : she knew that he was about

the only man who attempted to grapple with
the evil and degradation and poverty of Grey-shot.


'You see,' he continued, with the bright look
which seemed to raise Erica into a purer atmosphere
' it is not the public estimation which
makes a man's character. There is one question
which I think we ought never to ask ourselves,
and that is, " What will people think of
me ?" It should be instead, " How Coin I
serve ?"' '

But, if they take away your power, how can
you serve T

They can't take it away ; they may check
and hinder for a time, that is all. I believe
one may serve always and everywhere.'

You don't mean that I can serve that roomful
of enemies in there '?'

That is exactly what I do mean,' he answered,
smiling a little.

In the meantime, Lady Caroline was apologising
to Mr. Cuthbert.

I don't know when I have been so vexed I'
she exclaimed. * It is really too bad of Mrs.
Fane Smith. I had no idea that the Burne-jones

angel I promised you was the daughter
of that disgraceful man. What a horrible satire,
is it not V

Pray, don't apologise,' said mr. Cuthbert.
It was really rather amusing than otherwise,
and I fancy the young lady will be in no great
hurry to force her way into society again.'

He laughed a soft, malicious, chuckling laugh.

I should hope not, indeed,' said Lady Caroline,
indignantly. ' Where has she disappeared
to?'

'Need you ask?' said mr. Cuthbert, smiling.
'Our revered member secured her at once, and
has been talking to her in the conservatory for
at least half-an-hour, hatching radical plots, I
daresay, and vowing vengeance on all aristocrats.'


'Really it is too shocking I' said Lady Caroline.
' Mr. Farrant lias no sense of what is
fitting ; it is a trait which I have always noticed
in Radicals. He ought, at least, to have some
respect for his position.'

'Birds of a feather flock together,' suggested
Mr. Cuthbert, with his malicious smile.

Well, I don't often defend Mr. Farrant,' said

Lady Caroline. * But he comes of a good old
family, and, though a Radical, he is at least
respectable.'

Lady Caroline knew absolutely nothing about
Erica, but uttered the last sentence, with its
vague, far-reaching, and most damaging hint,
without even a pricking of conscience.

'You will try to rescue the M.p?' asked Mr.
Cuthbert.

For the sake of his position, yes,' said Lady
Caroline, entering the conservatory.

Oh ! Mr. Farrant,' she said, with her most
gracious smile, ' I came to see whether you
couldn't induce your wife to sing to us. Now,
is it true that she has given up her music ? I
assure you she and I have been battling the
point ever since you came up. Can't you persuade
her to give us just one song? 1 am really
in despair for some music'

I am afraid my wife is quite out of voices
said Donovan. 'Are there no other musical
people V

Not one. It is really most astonishing. I
was counting on Miss Fane-Smith, but she has
disappointed me, and there is not another creature

who will play or sing a note. Greyshot is
a terribly unmusical place.'

You do not belong to Greyshot, so perhaps
you may be able to come to the rescue,' said
Donovan to Erica. ' Scotch people can, at any
rate, always play or sing their own national
airs as no one else can.*

Lady Caroline did not really in the least care
whether there were music or not, but she had
expressed herself very strongly, and that tiresome
Mr. Farrant had taken her at her word,
and was trying to beat-up recruits — recruits
that she did not want. He had now, whether
intentionally or not, put her in such a position
that, unless she were positively rude, she must
ask Erica to play or sing.

Have you brought any music, Miss Raeburn
T she asked, turning to Erica with a
chilling look, as though she had just become
aware of her presence.

I have none to bring,' said Erica. 'I do not
profess to sing ; I only sing our own Scotch airs.'

'Exactly what I said!' exclaimed Donovan.
*And Scotch singing of Scotch airs is like
nothing else in the world.'

Whether he mesmerised them both, or whether
his stronger will and higher purpose prevailed
it would be hard to say. Certainly Erica was
quite as unwilling to sing as Lady Caroline was
to favour her with a request. Both had to
yield, however, and Erica, whether she would
or not, had to serve her roomful of enemies —
and a great deal of good it did her.

Out of the quiet conservatory they came into
the heat and glare and Babel of voices ; Lady
Caroline feeling as if she had been caught in
her own trap, Erica wavering between resentful
defiance and the desire to substitute Donovan's
'How can I serve?' for ' What do they
think V

She sat down to the piano, which was in a
far-away corner, and soon she had forgotten
her audience altogether. Although she had
had little time or opportunity for a thorough
musical education, she had great taste, and was
musical by nature ; she sang her national airs
as very few could have sung them, and so wild
and pathetic was the air she had chosen, * The
Flowers of the Forest that the roar of conversation
at once ceased. She knew nothing

VOL. II. Q

^vhf\t(.'Vor about the listeners; the air had taken
her buck to her Other's recovery at Codrington
the year before. She was singing to him once
more.

The old gentleman who had sat on her right
hand at dinner came up now with his first
remark.

'Thank you, that was a real treat, and a
very rare treat. I wonder whether you would
sing an old favourite of mine — " Oh, why did
ye gang, lassie?" '

Erica at once complied, and there was such
pathos in her low, clear voice that tears stood
in the eyes of more than one listener. She had
never dared to sing that song at home since
one evening some weeks before, when her father
had just walked out of the room, unable to bear
the mournful refrain — 'I never, never thought
ye wad leave me !' The song was closely associated
with the story of that summer, and she
sang it to perfection.

Donovan Farrant came towards her again at
the close.

I want to introduce my wife to you,' he
said.

And Erica found that the 3'oung married lady
in the pale blue silk, whom she had singled out
as the one approachable lady in the room, was
Mrs. Farrant. She was very bright, and sunshiny,
and talkative. Erica liked her, and
would have liked her still better had not the
last week shown her so much of the unreality
and insincerity of society, that she half doubted
whether anyone she met in Grey shot could be
quite true. Mrs. Farrant's manner was charming,
but charming manners had often turned
out to be exceedingly artificial, and Erica, who
was in rather a hard mood, would not let herself
be won over, but held her judgment in
suspension, responding brightly enough to her
companion's talk, but keeping the best part of
herself in reserve.

At length the evening ended, and the guests
gradually dispersed. Mr. Cuthbert walked
across the road to his vicarage, still chuckling
to himself as he thought of the general discomfiture
caused by his question. The musical
old gentleman returned to his home revolving a
startlingly new idea : after all, might not the
Kaeburns and such people be very much like the

q2

rest of the world? Were they not probably as
susceptible to pain and pleasure, to comfort and
discomfort, to rudeness and civility ? He regretted
very much that he had not broken the
miserably uncomfortable silence at dinner.

Donovan Farrant and his wife were already
far from Greyshot, driving along the quiet
country road to Oakdene Manor.

A, lovely girl,' Mrs. Farrant was saying. *I
should like to know her better. To-night I had
the feeling somehow that she was purposely
keeping on the surface of things, one came
every now and then to a sort of wall, a kind of
hard reserve.'

\Yho can wonder !' exclaimed Donovan. ' I
am afraid, Gladys, the old proverb will have a
very fair chance of being fulfilled. That child
has come out seeking wool, and as likely as not
she'll go home shorn.'

'Society can be very cruel I' sighed Gladys.
T (lid so long to get to her after dinner ;
but Lady Caroline kept me, T do believe,
purposely.'

Lady Carolina' and Mi Cuthbert will little
dream of the harm they have done," said Donovan.

' I think I understand as I never understood
before the burning indignation of that rebuke
to the Pharisees, — " Full well ye reject
the commandment of God that ye may keep
your own traditions " !'

In the meantime there was dead silence in
the Fane-Smiths' carriage, an ominous silence.
There was an unmistakeable cloud on Mr. Fane-smith's
face : he had been exceedingly annoyed
at what had taken place, and, with native
perversity, attributed it all to Erica. His wife
was miserable. She felt that her intended kindness
had proved a complete failure ; she was
afraid of her husband's clouded brow, still more
afraid of her niece's firmly closed mouth, most
afraid of all at the thought of Lady Caroline's
displeasure. Nervous and overwrought, anxious
to conciliate all parties, and afraid of
making matters worse, she timidly went into
Erica's room, and, after beating about the bush
for a minute or two, plunged rashly into the sore
subject.

I am so sorry, dear, about to-night,' she
said. ' I wish it could have been prevented.'

Erica, standing up straight and tall in her

velveteen dress, with a white shawl half thrown
back from her shoulders, looked to her aunt
terribly dignified and uncompromising.

I can't say that I thought them courteous,'
she replied.

'It was altogether unfortunate,' said ^hs,
Fane-Smith, hurriedly. ' I hoped your name
would not transpire ; I ought to have suggested

the change to you before, but '

'What change?' asked Erica, her forehead
contracting a little.

• We thought — we hoped that perhaps, if you
adopted our name, it might prevent unpleasantness.
Such things are done, you know, and
then, too, we might make some arrangement
about your grandfather's money, a part of
which I feel is now yours by right. Even now
the change would show people the truth, would
save many disagreeable.'

During this speech Erica's face had been a
study ; an angry glow of colour rushed to her
cheeks, her eyes flashed dangerously. She was
a young girl, but there was a good deal ol' the
lion about her at that minute, and her aunt trembled,
listening perforce to the indignant outburst.

What truth would it show?' she cried. 'I
don't believe there is such a thing as truth
among all these wretched shams ! I will never
change my name to escape from prejudice and
bigotry, or to win a share in my grandfather's
property! What! give up my father's name to
gain the money which might have kept him
from pain, and ruin, and semi-starvation ? taka
the money that might have brought comfort to
my mother ! — that might have kept me with
her to the end ! I couldn't take it ! I would
rather die than touch one penny of it ! It is
too late now. If you thought I would consent
if that is the reason you asked me here, I can
go at once. I would not willingly have brought
shame upon you, but neither will I dishonour
myself nor insult my father by changing my
name. Why, to do so would be to proclaim
that 1 judged him as those Pharisees did tonight
! The hypocrites ! Which of them can
show one grain of love for the race, to set
against my father's life of absolute devotion ?
They sit over their champagne and slander
atheists, and then have the face to call themselves
Christians !'

My dear !' said Mrs. Fane-Smith, nervously,
our only wish is to do what is best for you ;
but you are too tired and exerted to discuss
this now. I will wish you good-night.'

I never wish to discuss it again, thank you,'
said Erica, submitting to a particularly warm
embrace.

Mrs. Fane-Smith was right in one way.
Erica was intensely excited. When people
have been riding, rough-shod, over one's heart,
one is apt to be excited, and Luke Raeburn's
daughter had inherited that burning sense of
indignation which was so strongly marked a
characteristic in Raeburn himself. Violins can
be more sweet and delicate in tone than any
other instrument, but they can also wail with
greater pathos, and produce a more fearful
storm of passion.

Declining any assistance from Gemma, Erica
locked her door, caught up some sheets of foolscap,
snatched up her pen, and began to write
rapidly. She knew well enough that she ought
not to have written. But when the heart is hot
with indignation, when the brain produces
scathing sentences, when the subject seems to

have taken possession of the whole being, to
deny it utterance is quite the hardest thing in
the world.

Erica struggled to resist, but at length yielded,
and out rushed sarcasms, denunciations,
return blows innumerable ! The relief was
great. However, her enjoyment was but short,
for by the time her article was rolled up for
the post, stamped and directed, her physical
powers gave way ; such blank exhaustion ensuing
that all she could do was to drag herself
across the room, throw herself, half dressed,
on the bed, draw the rezai over her, and yield
to the heavy, overpowering slumber of great
"weariness.

It seemed to her that she slept for about five
minutes, and was then roused by a knocking at
her door. She started up, and found that it
was morning. Then she recollected bolting her
door, and sprang out of bed to undo it, but
was reminded at once that she had a spine.
She had quite recovered from the effects of her
illness, but over-fatigue always brought back
the old pain, and warned her that she must be
more careful in the future. The housemaid

seemed ii little surprised not to find her up
and dressed as usual, for iM-mica generally got
through an hour's writing before the nine o'clock
breakfast.

*Are you ill, miss?' she asked, glancing at
the face which seemed almost as colourless as
the pillow.

Only very tired, thank you said Erica, glad
enough to-day of the cup of tea and the thin
bread-and-butter, which before had seemed to
her such an absurd luxury.

Letters for the early post, miss, I suppose
said the housemaid, taking up the fiery effusion.
Please,' replied Erica, not turning her head,
and far 'too weary to give a thought to her last
night's work. All she could think of just then
was the usual waking reflection of a sufferer —
How in the world shall I get through the day?'
The recollection, however, of her parting conversation
with her aunt made her determined to
be down to breakfast. Her absence might be
misconstrued. And though feeling ill-prepared
for remonstrance or argument, she was in her
place when the gong sounded for prayers, looking
white and weary indeed, but with a curve

of resoluteness about her mouth. Nobody found
out how tired she was. Mr. Fane-Smith was as
blind as a bat, and Mrs. Fane-Smith was too
low-spirited and too absorbed with her own
cares to notice. The events of last night looked
more and more disagreeable, and she was burdened
with thoughts of what people Avould say ;
moreover, Rose's cold was much worse, and asher
mother was miserable if even her little
finger ached, she was greatly disturbed, and
persuaded herself that her child was really in a
most dangerous state.

Breakfast proved a very silent meal that
morning, quite oppressively silent ; Erica felt
like a child in disgrace. Every now tend then
the grimness of it appealed to her sense of the
ludicrous, she felt inclined to scream or do
something desperate just to see what would
happen. At length the dreary repast came to
an end, and she had just taken up a newspaper,
with a sort of gasp of relief at the
thought of escaping for a moment into a larger
world, when she was recalled to the narrow
circle of Greyshot by a word from ]mr. Fane-smith.


I wish to have a talk with yon, my clear ;
will you come to the library at ten o'clock V

An interview by appointment ! That sounded
formidable ! When the time came, Erica
went rather apprehensively to the library, fearing
that she was in for an argument, and wishing
that Mr. Fane-Smith had chosen a day on
which she felt a little more up to things.

He received her very kindly, and drew an
easy chair up to the fire for her, no doubt doing
as he would be done by, for he was a chilly
Indian mortal. Erica had never been into the
library before. It was a delightful room, furnished
with old carved oak and carpeted
with soft Indian rugs. Though dignified by
the name of library, it was not nearly so crowded
with books as the little study at home ; all
the volumes were beautifully bound in much
begilt calf or morocco, but they had not the
used loved look of her father's books. On the
mantelpiece there were some models of Indian
idols exquisitely carved in soft, greenish-grey
soap-stone, and behind these, as if in jn-otest,
Lurked the only unornaniental thing in the
room, a very ordinary missionary box, covered

with orange-coloured paper and impressively
black negroes.

I am sure, my dear,' said Mr. Fane-Sniitb,
that after what occurred last night you will
see the desirability of thinking seriously about
your plans for the future. I have been intending
to speak to you, but waited until we had
learnt to know each other a little. However, I
regret now that T delayed. It is naturally far
from desirable that you should remain an inmate
of your father's house, and my wife and I
should be very glad if you would make your
home with us. Of course, when it was fully
understood in Greyshot that you had utterly-renounced
your father and your former friends,
such unpleasantness as you encountered last
night would not again occur : indeed, I fancy
you would become exceedingly popular. It
would perhaps have been wiser if you would
have taken our name, but your aunt tells me
sou object to that.'

Yes,' said Erica, who was writhing with
anger, and relieved herself by the slight sarcasm,
I do object to be Miss Feign-Fane-Smith.'

Well, that must be as you please,' he required

; 'but I really think ii' you will accept
our offer it will be for your ultimate good.'

He proceeded to enumerate all the benefits
which would accrue to her ; then paused.

Erica was silent for a minute. When she
spoke it was in the low voice of one who is
struggling to restrain passion.

I am sure you mean this very kindly,' she
said. ' I have tried to listen to your offer
patiently, though, of course, the moment you
began, I knew that I must entirely — emphatically
decline it. I will never leave my father !'

The last words were spoken with a sort of
half-restrained outburst, as if the pent-up passion
must find some outlet.

Mr. Fane-Smith was startled. He so seldom
thought of Luke Raeburn as a fellow-being at
all, that perhaps it had never occurred to hint
that the love of parent to child, and child to
parent, is quite independent of creed.

But, my dear,' he said, ' you have been
baptised.'

I have.*

You promised to renounce the devil and all
this works.'

I did.'

Then how can you hesitate to renounce
everything connected with your former life V

Do you mean to imply that my father is the
devil — or one of his works V

Mr. Fane-Smith was silent. Erica continued.


God's Fatherhood does not depend on our
knowledge of it, oi acceptance of it, it is a facta
truth ! flow then can anyone dare to say
that such a man as my father is a work of the
devil ! I thought the sin of sins was to attribute
to the devil what belongs to God !^

You are in a very peculiar position,' said
Mr. Fane-Smith, uneasily. ' And I have no
doubt it is difficult for you to see things as
they really are. But I, who can look at the
matter dispassionately, can see that your remaining
in your old home would be most dangerous,
and not only that, but most painful!
To live in a house where you hear all that you
most reverence evil spoken of! why, the pain
would be unspeakable !'

I know that,' said Erica, in a low voice, ' I
have found that, — I admit that it is and always

Avill be larder to bear than anyone can conceive
who has not tried. But to sliirlc pain is
not to follow Christ. As to danger, if yon will
forgive my saying so, I should find a luxurious
life in a place like Greyshot infinitely more
trying.'

Then could you not take up nursing ? Or
go into some sisterhood? Nothing extreme,
you know, but just a working sisterhood.'

Erica smiled and shook her head.
Why should I try to make another vocation
when God has already given me one T

But, my dear, consider the benefit to your
own soul.'

A very secondary consideration !' exclaimed
Erica, impetuously

I should have thought,' continued Mr. Fane-smith,
' that under such strange circumstances
you would have seen how necessary it was to
forsake all. Think of St. Matthew, for instance,
he rose up at once, forsook all, and followed
Him.'

Yes,' said Erica. * And what was the very
first thing he was impelled to do by way of
following" ? Why, to make a great feast and

have ia all his old friends,, all the despised
publicans.'

My dear Erica,' said Mr. Fane-Smith, feeling
his theological arguments worsted, ' we
must discuss this matter on practical grounds.
In plain words, your father is a very bad man,
and you ought to have nothing more to do
with him.'

Erica's lips turned white with anger; but she
answered, calmly,

That is a very great accusation. How do
you know it is true?'

I know it well enough,' said Mr. Fane-smith.
' Why, everyone in England knows it.'

If you accept mere hearsay evidence, you
may believe anything of anyone. Have you
ever read any of my father's books T

'No.'

Or heard him lecture V

No, indeed, I would not hear him on any
account.'

Have you ever spoken with any of his intimate
friends?'

Mr. Raeburn's acquaintances are not likely
to mix with anyone I should know.'

VOL. II. * R

/ * Tiens cried Erica, ' how can you know anything
whatever about him? And how — how
dare you say to me, his child, that he is a wicked
man V

It is a matter of common notoriety.'

No,' said Erica, ' there you are wrong. It is
notorious that my father teaches — conscientiously
teaches — much that we regard as
error, but people who openly accuse him of
evil-living find to their cost in the law-courts
that they have foully libelled him.'

She flushed even now at the thought of
some of the hateful and wicked accusations of
the past. Then, after a moment's pause, she
continued, more warmly,

It is you people in society who get hold of
some misquoted story, some ridiculous libel
long ago crushed at the cost of the libeller, —
it is you who do untold mischief! Only last
summer I remember seeing in a paper the
truest sentence that was ever written of my
father, and it was this, " Probably no one man
has ever had to endure such gross personal
insults, such wide-spread hostility, such perpetual
calumny." Why arc you to judge him ?

Even if you had a special call to it, how could
you justly judge him when you will not hear
him, or know him, or fairly study his writings,
or question his friends ? How can you know
anything whatever about him? Why, if he
judged you and your party as you judge him,
you would be furious!'

My dear, you speak with so much warmth,
if you would only discuss things calmly !'
said Mr. Fane-Smith. ' Remember what George
Herbert says — "Calmness is great advantage."
You bring too much feeling to the discussion.'

^ How can I help feeling when you are slandering
my father !' exclaimed Erica. ' I have
tried to be calm, but there are limits to endurance
! Would you like Rose to sit silently
while my father told her without any ground
that you were a wicked man V

When matters were reversed in this crude
way, Mr. Fane-Smith winced a little.

The cases are different,' he suggested.

Do you think atheists don't love their
children as much as Christians!* cried Erica,
half-choked with indignant anger. A vision of
the past, of her dead mother, of her father's

r2

never-failing tenderness brought a cloud of
tears to her eyes. She brushed them away.
The cases are different, as you say ; but does
a man care less for his home, when outside it
he is badgered and insulted or does he care
infinitely more '{ Does a man care less for his
child because, to get her food, he has had to go
short himself, or does he care more ? I think
the man who has had to toil with all his might
for his family loves it better than the rich man
can. You say I speak with too much warmth,
too much feeling. My complaint is the other
way — I can't find words strong enough to give
you any idea of what ray father has always
been to me. To leave him would be to wrong
my conscience, and to forsake my duty, and to
distrust God. I will never leave him I'

With that she got up and left the room, and
Mr. Fane-Smith leant back in his chair with a
sigh, his eyes fixed absently upon a portrait
of Napoleon above his mantelpiece, his mind
more completely shaken out of its ordinary
grooves than it had been for years. He was a
narrow-minded man, but he was honest. He
saw that he had judged Raeburn very unfairly.

But perhaps what occupied his thoughts the
most was the question — ' Would Rose have
been able to say of him all that Erica had said
of her father?' He sighed many times, but
after awhile slid back into the old habits of
thought.

Erica is a brave, noble, little thing,' he said
to himself, 'but far from orthodox — far from
orthodox ! Socinian tendencies.'

CHAPTER XI.

AT OAK DENE MANOR.

Ah ! to how many faith has been
No evidence of things unseen,
But a dim shadow that re-casts
The creed of the Phantasies.

For others a diviner creed
Is living in the life they lead.
The passing of their beautified feet
Blesses the pavement of the street,
And all their looks and words repeat
Old Fuller's saying wise and sweet,
Not as a vulture, but a dove,
The Holy Ghost came from above.

Tiller of n Wayside Inn. LONGFELLOW.

During the interview Erica had braced herself
up to endure, but when it was over her strength
all at once evaporated. She dragged herself
upstairs somehow, and had just reached her
room, Avhen Mrs. Fane-Smith met her. She was
pre-occupied with her own anxieties, or Erica's

exhaustion could not have escaped her notice.

I am really quite unhappy about Rose !' she

exclaimed. ' We must send for Dr. L . Her

cough seems so much worse, I fear it will turn
to bronchitis. Are you learned in such things T

I helped to nurse Tom through a bad attack
once,' said Erica.

Oh ! then, do come and see her,' said Mrs
Fane-Smith.

Erica went without a word. She would not
have liked Mrs. Fane-Smith's fussing, but yet
the sight of her care for Rose made her feel
more achingly conscious of the blank in her
own life — that blank which nothing could ever
fill. She wanted her own mother so terribly,
and just now Mr. Fane-Smith had touched the
old wound roughly.

Rose seemed remarkably cheerful, and not
nearly so much invalided as her mother thought.

Mamma always thinks I am going to die if
I'm at all out of sorts,' she remarked, when Mrs.
Fane-Smith had left the room to waite to the
doctor. 'I believe you want doctoring much
more than I do. What is the matter ? You
are as white as a sheet !'

I am tired and rather worried, and my back
is troublesome said Erica.

Then you'll just lie down on my sofa,' said
Rose, peremptorily. * If you don't, I shall get
out of bed and make you.'

Erica did not require much compulsion, for
every inch of her seemed to have a separate
ache, and she was still all quivering and tingling
with the indignant anger stirred up by
her interview with Mr. Fane-Smith. She let
Rose chatter away, and tried hard to school
herself into calmness. By-and-by her efforts
were rewarded ; she not only grew calm, but
fell asleep, and slept like any baby till the gong
sounded for luncheon.

Luncheon proved a very silent meal ; it was,
if possible, more trying than breakfast had been.
Mrs. Fane-Smith had heard all about the interview
from her husband, and they were both
perplexed and disturbed. Erica felt uncertain
of her footing with them, and could only wait
for them to make the first move. But the grim
silence tickled her fancy.

'Really,' she thought to herself, * we might
be so many horses munching away at mangers,
for all we have said to each other.'

But, in spite of it, she did not feel inclined to
make conversation.

Later on she went for a drive with her aunt ;
the air revived her, and she began to feel more
like herself again. They went out into the
country, but on the wa^^ home Mrs. Fane-Smith
stopped at one of the shops in High Street,
leaving Erica in the carriage. She was leaning-back
resentfully, watching a beautiful chestnut
horse which was being held by a ragged boy
at the door of the bank just opposite, when her
attention was suddenly aroused by an ominous
howling and barking. The chestnut horse
began to kick, and the boy had as much as he
could do to hold him. Starting forward, Erica
saw that a fox-terrier had been set upon by
another and larger dog, and that the two were
having a desperate fight. The fox-terrier was
evidently fighting against fearful odds, for he
was an old dog, and not nearly so strong as
his antagonist ; the howls and barks grew worse
and worse ; some of the passengers ran off in a
fright, others watched from a safe distance, but
not one interfered.

Now Erica was a great lover of animals, and
a passionate lover of justice. Furious to see

ran hind boys looking on without attempting
to stop the mischief, she sprang out of the carriage
and, rushing up to the combatants, belaboured
the big dog with her parasol. It had
a strong stick, but she hit so vehemently that
it splintered all to bits, and still the dog would
not leave its victim. Then, in her desperation,
she hit on the right remedy ; with great difficulty
she managed to grasp him by the throat,
and, using all her force, so nearly suffocated
him that he was obliged to loosen his hold. At
that moment J too, a strong man rushed forward
and dealt him such a fearful blow that he
bounded off with a yell of pain, and ran howling
down the street. Erica bent over the fox-terrier
then ; the big dog had mangled it frightfully
, it was covered with blood, and moaned
piteously.

Waif ! my poor Waif I' exclaimed a voice
which she seemed to know. ' Has that brute
killed you V

she looked u]) and saw Donovan Farrant ;
he recognised her, but they were both too much
absorbed in the poor dog's condition to think
olany ordinary greeting.

Where will you take him V asked Erica.

Donovan stooped down to examine poor
Waif's injuries.

I fear there is little to be done,' he said.
But we might take him across to the chemist's
opposite. Will you hold my Avhip for me V

She took it, and with infinite skill and tenderness
Donovan lifted the fox-terrier, while
Erica hurried on in front to tell the chemist.
They took Waif into a little back room, and did
all they could for him; but the chemist shrugged
his shoulders.

Better kill the poor brute at once, Mr. Farrant,'
he said, blandly.

Donovan looked up with a strange gleam in
his eyes.

Not for the world !^ he exclaimed, with a
touch of indignation in his tone.

And after that he only spoke to Erica, who,
seeing that the chemist had annoyed him,
undertook all the fetching and carrying, never
once shrinking, though the sight was a horrible
one. At length the footman brought word that
Mrs. Fane-Smith was waiting, and she was
obliged to go, reluctantly enough.

'You'll let me know how he sets on?' she
said.

'Yes, indeed,' he replied, not thanking her
directly for her help, but somehow sending her
away with the consciousness that the' had
passed the bounds of mere acquaintanceship,
and were friends for life.

She found that her aunt had been waylaid by
Mr. Cuthbert.

If 1 were the owner of the dog, I should
have up our honourable member for assault. I
believe Miss Raeburn broke her umbrella over
the poor thing.'

Erica was just in time to hear this.

Were you watching it?' she exclaimed.
And you did nothing to help the fox-terrier f

I do not feel bound to champion every fighting
cur who is getting the worst of it,' said Mr.
Cuthbert. ' What has become of Mr. Farrant's
favourite ! I suppose he is fussing over it instead
of studying the affairs of the nation.'

T am afraid the dog is dying,' said Erica.

A curious change passed over Mr. Cuthbert's
face ; he looked a little shocked, and turned
away somewhat hastily.

Come,' thought Erica to herself, * I am glad
to have discovered a grain of good in you.'

The next day was Sunday ; it passed by very
quietly. But on the Monday when Erica opened
the Daily Review, there was her * Society '
article staring her in the face. It was clever
and eminently readable, but it was bitterly
sarcastic; she could not endure it. It seemed to
her that she had written what was positively
bad, calculated to mislead and to awaken bitterness,
not in the least likely to mend matters.
The fact was she had written it in a moment of
passion and against her conscience, and she regretted
it now with far more compunction than
she felt for anything she had written in former
times in the Idol-Breaker. Then, though indirectly
and sometimes directly attacking
Christianity, she had written conscientiously,
now for the first time she felt that she had dishonoured
her pen. She went down into the
very deepest depths.

The midday post brought her a letter from
her stiff old editor, who understood her better,
and thought more of her than she dreamed. It
informed her that another member of the staff

had returned from this holiday, and if she
pleased she could be exempted from writing fora
fortnight. As usual Mr. Bircham ' begged to
remain hers faithfully.'

She hardly knew whether to regard this as a
relief or as a punishment. With a sigh she
opened a second letter ; it was from Charles
Osmond, in reply to a despairing note which
she had sent off just before her Saturday interview
with Mr. Fane-Smith.

It was one of his short, characteristic letters.

Dear Erica,

" It all comes in the day's work,"
as the man said when the lion ate him ! You
should have a letter, but I'm up to the eyes in
parish matters. All I can say is — pray for that
chanty which covers the multitude of sins, and
then I think you'll lind the Gre3^shot folk become
more bearable. So you have met Donovan
at last. I am right glad ! Your father and 1
lead a long walk together yesterday ; he seems
very well.

Yours ever,

'C. o;

This made her smile, and she opened a third
letter which ran as follows :

My dear Miss Raeburn,

I should have called on you last Saturday,
but was not well enough to come in to Grey-shot.
My husband told me all about your help
and your kindness to poor Waif. I know you
will be glad to hear that he is going on well ; he
is much more to us all than an ordinary favourite,
some day you shall hear his story. I am writing
now to ask, sans ceremonie, if you wall come and
spend a few days with us. It will be a great
pleasure to us if you will say yes. My husband
will be in Greyshot on Monday afternoon, and
will call for your answer; please come if you can.
Yours very sincerely,

Gladys Farrant.'

Erica showed this letter to her aunt, and of
course there was nothing to prevent her going ;
indeed, Mrs. Fane-Smif-.h was really rather relieved,
for she thought a few days' absence
might make things more comfortable for Erica,
and, besides, Rose's illness made the days dull
for her.

It was about four o'clock when Donovan
Farrant arrived. Erica felt as though she were
meeting au old friend when she went into the
drawing-room, and found him standing on the
hearthrug.

You have had my wife's note V he asked,
taking her hand.

Yes,' she replied.

And you will come V
*^If you will have me.'

That's right ; we had set our hearts on it.
You are looking very tired. I hope Saturday
did not upset you V

*No,' said price. 'But there have been a
good many worries, and I've not yet learnt the
art of taking life quietly.'

You are overdone, you want a rest,' said
Donovan, whose keen and practised observation,
had at once noticed her delicate physique and
peculiar temperament. ' You are a poet, you
see, and, as a wise man once remarked, " The
poetic temperament is one of singular irritability
of nerve." '

Erica laughed.

I am no poet I'

Not a writer of verses, but a poet in the
sense of a maker, an artist. As a reader of the
Daily Review you must allow me to judge.
Brian once showed me one of your articles, and
I always recognise them now by the style.'

I don't deserve the name of artist one bit
said Erica, colouring. ' I would give all I have
to destroy my article of to-day. You have not
seen that, or you would not have given me such
a name.'

Yes, I have seen it, I read it this morning at
breakfast, and made up my mind that you
wrote it on Friday evening, after Lady Caroline's
dinner. I can understand that you hate
the thing now. One gets a sharp lesson every
now and then, and it lasts one a lifetime.'

Erica sighed. He resumed.

Well ! are you coming to Oakdene with me?'

Did you mean now — at once — to-day V

If you will.'

'Oh, I should so like to!' she cried. *But
will Mrs. F arrant be expecting me V

She will be hoping for you, and that is
better. '

Erica was noted for the speed with which she
VOL. II. S

could pack a portmanteau, and it could not
have been more than ten minutes before she was
ready. Mrs. Fane-Smith wished her good-bye
with a sort of affectionate relief; then Donovan
helped her into the pony carriage, and drove
briskly off through the Greyshot streets.

That is the place where I first heard your
father,' he said, indicating with his whip the
Town Hall. * It must be sixteen years ago ; I
was quite a young fellow.'

Sixteen years ! Did you hear him so long
ago as that?' said Erica, thoughtfully. 'Why
that inst have been about the time of the great
Stockborougli trial.'

'It was ; I remember reference being made toit,
and how it stirred me up to think of Mr.
Auburn's gallant defence of freedom, and all
that it was costing him. How well I remember,
too, riding Iiome that night along this very
road, with the thoughts of the good of the race,
the love of humanity, touched into life for the
first time. When a selfish cynic first catches a
glimpse of an honest man toiling for what he
believes the good of humanity, it is a wonderful
moment for him ! Mr. Raeburn was about the

only man living that I believed in. You can
understand that I owe him an immense debt of
gratitude.'

That is what you refer-red to in the House
last year !' said Erica. ' How curiously lives
are linked together! Words spoken by my
father years ago set thoughts working in you —
you make a speech and refer to them. I read a
report of your speech in a time of chaotic
Wretchedness, and it comes like an answer to a
prayer !'

Another bond between us,' said Donovan.

After that they were silent ; they had left the
high road and were driving along winding
country lanes, catching glimpses every now and
then of golden corn-JSelds still reaped, or of
fields just beginning to be dotted with sheaves,
where the men were at work. It was a late
harvest that year, but a good one. Presently
they passed the tiny little village church which
nestled under the brow of the hill, and then
came a steep ascent, which made Donovan
spring out of the pony-chaise. Erica's words
had awakened a long train of thought, had carried
him back to the far past, and had brought

shim

frcsli proof of that wonderful unity of Nature
which, though often little dreamed of, binds
man to man. He gave the ponies a rest halfway
np the hill, and, stretching up into the high
hedge, gathered a beautiful spray of red-berried
briony for Erica.

Do you remember that grand thought
which Shakspeare puts into the mouth of
Henry V.—

There is some soul of goodness in things evil."
'Tis wonderful to look back in life and trace it
out.'

He spoke rather abruptly, but Erica's thoughts
had been following much the same bent, and she
understood him.

Trust is easy on such a day as this and in
such a place,' she said, looking down to the
beautiful valley and up to the green, encircling
hills.

Donovan smiled, and touched-up the ponies.

It seemed to Erica that they had turned their
backs on bigotry, and annoyance, and care of
every description, and were driving right into
a land of rest. Presently they turned in at
some iron gates, and drove down a long approach,

bordered with fir-trees. At the eod of
this stood the manor, a solid, comfortable, well-built
country-house, its rather plain exterior
veiled with ivy and creepers. Donovan led her
into the hall, where stately old high-backed
chairs and a suit or two of old armour were
intermixed with modern appliances, fishing
tackle, a lawn-tennis box, and a sprinkling of
toys, which indicated that there were children
in the house.

This fact was speedily indicated in another
way, for there came a rush and a scamper overhead,
and a boy of five or six years old ran
down the broad oak staircase.

Oh, father ! may I ride round to the stables
on Speedwell V he cried, in a desperate hurry
to attract his father's attention away from the
servant and the portmanteau ; then, catching
sight of Erica, he checked himself, and held out
his hand with a sort of shy courtesy. He was
exactly what Donovan must have been as a
child, as far as looks went.

To the stables, Ralph V replied his father,
looking round. ' Yes, if you like. Put on your
hat, though. Where's your mother V

In the garden, with Mr. Cunningham ; he
came a few minutes ago ; and he's got such a
.horse, father ! a real beauty — just like cocoa.'

A roan,' said Donovan, laughing ; then, as
Ralph disappeared through the open door, he
turned to the servant.

Is it Mr. Cunningham of Blachingbmy V
No, sir ; Mr. Leslie Cunningham.'

Erica listened, not without interest, for she
knew that Leslie Cunningham was the recently-elected
member for East Moonshine, and the
eldest son of Sir Michael Cunningham.

We must come and find them,' said Donovan ;
and together they went out into the garden.

Here, on one of the broad, grassy terraces,
under the shade of a copper-beech, was afternoon
tea, on a wicker table. Gladys was talking
to Mr. Cunningham, but catching sight of
her husband and Erica at the other end of the
terrace, she hurried forward to greet them.

This is delightful !' she exclaimed. * I hoped
that Donovan might unceremoniously carry
you off to-day, but hardly dared to expect it.
You are just in time for tea.'

Your arrival has caused quite a sensation in

the nursery,' said Donovan to Leslie Cunningham.
'My small boy is in raptures over your
horse — "just like cocoa !" '

Leslie gave rather an absent laugh. He was
watching Erica, who was still at a little distance
talking to Gladys.

'May I be introduced to your guest?' he said.

'Certainly,' said Donovan. 'She is the
daughter of Mr. Raeburn.'

Leslie started.

Indeed ! I have heard about her from old
Bircham, the editor. He can't say enough of
her.'

Apparently Leslie Cunningham could not
look enough at her.

Donovan, thinking of Brian, was perhaps a
little vexed at the meeting. However, putting
himself into his guest's position, he felt that the
admiration was but natural, and as to Brian — if
he chose to lose his heart to such a lovely girl,
he must expect to have many rivals.

Erica's first thought, as she glanced at Leslie
Cunningham, was one of disappointment. He
was not the least like his father. However, by
degrees she began to like him for his own sake.

He could not have been more than five-and-twenty,
and looked even younger; for he was
fiiir-complexioned and clean-shaven. His thick,
flaxen hair, and rather pallid face were decidedly
wanting in colour, but were relieved by
very dark-grey eyes. His features were well
cut and regular, and the face was altogether a
clever as well as an attractive one.

Erica felt as if she had got into a very
delicious new world. The novelty of a meal
al fresco, the lovely view, the beautifully laid
out grounds were charming externals ; and
then there were the deeper enjoyments — the
sociability of her host and hostess; the delightful
atmosphere of broad-hearted sympathy in
which they seemed to live and move, and,
above all, the restfulness, the freedom of not
living in momentary expectation of being rubbed
the wrong way by vexing conversation on
religious, or political, or personal topics. It
was like a beautiful dream — quite unlike any
part of real, waking existence that she had
ever before known. The conversation was
bright and lively. They talked because they
had something to say, and wished to say it,

and the artificial element so prevalent in society
talk was entirely absent.

Presently Ralph came out of the house, leading
a fairy-like little girl of four years old.

Here come the children said Gladys. ' The
hour before dinner is their special time. You
have not seen Dolly, have you V

Dolly !' The name awoke some recollection
of the past in Erica, and, as she kissed the little
girl, she looked at her closely. Yes, it was the
same fascinating little baby face, with its soft,
pink cheeks and little pointed chin, its innocent,
blue-grey eyes, its tiny, sweet-tempered
mouth. The sunny brown hair was longer, and
Dolly was an inch or two taller, but she was
undoubtedly the same.

'Now I know why I always felt that I knew
your face !' exclaimed Erica, turning to Donovan.
'Was not Dolly lost at Codrington last year V

On the beach,' replied Donovan. ' Yes !
Why, could it have been you who brought her
back ? Of course it was ! now it all comes
back to me ! I had exactly the same feeling
about knowing your face the other evening at
Lady Caroline's, but put it down to your likeness

to Mr. Raeburn. There is another bond
between ns!'

They both laughed. Donovan took Dolly
upon his knee.

Do you remember, Dolly, when you were
lost on the beach once V

Yes,' said Dolly, promptly, * I died.'

Who found you V

Farmer,' said Dolly.

Who brought you to father ?'

Dolly searched her memory.

An old gentleman gave Dolly sweets !'

My father I' said Erica, smiling.

• And who helped you up the beach V asked
Gladys.

A plitty lady did said Dolly.

'Was it this lady, do you think?' said Donovan,
indicating Erica.

Dolly trotted round with her dear little
laughing face to make the scrutiny.

I link vis one is whittier,' she announced.
Whereupon everyone began to laugh.

The most charming compliment 1 ever
heard I' said Leslie Cunningham. ' Dolly ought
to be patted on the back.'

Erica smiled and coloured ; but, as she looked
again at Donovan and little Dolly, her thoughts
wandered away to that June day in the museum
when they had been the parable which
shadowed forth to her such a wonderful reality.
Truly, there were links innumerable between
her and Donovan.

Leslie Cunningham seemed as if he intended
to stay for ever ; however, everyone was quite
content to sit out on the lawn talking and
watching the children at their play. It was
one of those still, soft September evenings,
when one is glad of any excuse to keep out of
doors.

At last the dressing-bell rang, and Leslie
took out his watch with an air of surprise.

The afternoon has flown !' he exclaimed, ' I
had no idea it was so late. 1 wanted to ask
you, by-the-by, whether I could see the coffee
tavern at Greyshot. We are going to start
one down at our place, and I want to see one
or two well-managed ones first. Whereabouts
is it ? I think I'll ride on now, and have a look
at it.'

Dine with us first,' said Donovan, ' and I'll

ride over with you between eight and nine,
that is the best time for seeing it in full
swing.'

So Leslie Cunningham stayed to dinner, and
talked a great deal about temperance work,
but did not succeed in blinding his host, who
knew well enough that Erica had been the real
cause of his desire to go over to Grey shot.

Temperance, however, proved a fortunate
subject, for it was, of course, one in which she
was deeply interested, all the more so now
that it formed one of the strongest bonds remaining
between herself and her Other's followers.
A large number of the Raeburnites
were either teetotalers or very strong temperance
advocates, and Erica, who was constantly
out and about in the poorer parts of London,
had realised forcibly the terrible national evil,
and was an enthusiastic temperance worker.

Donovan, perhaps out of malice prepense, administered
a good many dry details about the
management of coffee-taverns, personal supervision,
Etzensberger's machines, the necessity
of a good site and attractive building, &c., &c.
Erica only wished that Tom could have been

there, he would have been so thoroughly in his
element. By-and-by the conversation drifted
away to other matters. And as Leslie Cunningham
was a good and very amusing talker,
and Gladys the perfection of a hostess, the dinner
proved very lively, an extraordinary contrast
to the dreary, vapid table-talk to which
Erica had lately been accustomed. After the
ladies had left the room, Donovan, rather to his
amusements found the talk veering round to
Luke Raeburn. Presently, Leslie Cunningham
hazarded a direct question about Erica in a
would-be indifferent tone. In reply, Donovan
told him briefly and without comment what he
knew of her history, keeping on the surface of
things and speaking always with a sort of careful
restraint. He was never very fond of discussing
people, and perhaps in this case the
realisation of the thousand objections to any
serious outcome of Leslie's sudden admiration
strengthened his reserve. However, fate was
apparently kinder though perhaps really more
cruel than the host, for Donovan was summoned
into the library to interview an aggrieved
constituent, and Leslie, finding his way to the

drawing-room, was only too delighted to meet
Gladys going upstairs to see her children.

The lamps were lighted in the drawing-room,
but the curtains were not drawn, and beside
the open window he saw a slim, white-robed
figure. Erica was looking out into the
gathering darkness. He crossed the room, and
stood beside her, his heart beating quickly, all
the more because she did not move or take any
notice of his presence. It was unconventional,
but perhaps because he was so weary of the
ordinary young ladies who invariably smiled
and fluttered the moment he approached them,
and were so perfectly ready to make much of
him, this unconventionality attracted him. He
watched her for a minute in silence. She was
very happy, and was looking her loveliest.
Presently she turned.

I think it is the stillness which is so wonderful
!' she exclaimed.

It was spoken with the frankness of a child,
with the spontaneous confidence of the pure
child-nature, which instinctively recognises all
the loveable and tractable. The clear, golden
eyes looked right into his for a moment. A

strange reverence awoke within him. He had
seen more beautiful eyes before, but none so
entirely wanting in that unreality of expression
arising from the wish to produce an effect, none
so beautifully sincere.

The country stillness, you mean V he replied.
Yes ; it is rest in itself! I have never stayed
in the country before.'

Is it possible !' he exclaimed.
He had often languidly discussed the comparative
advantages of Murren and Zermatt
with girls who took a yearly tour abroad as
naturally as their dinner, but to talk to one who
had spent her whole life in towns, who could
enjoy a country evening so absolutely and unaffectedly,
was a strange and delightful novelty.
'You are one of those who can really enjoy,'
he said. ' You are not haste — you are one of
the happy mortals who keep the faculty of enjoyment
as strongly all through life as in
childhood.'

Yes, I think I can enjoy,' said Erica. ' But
I suppose we pay for our extra faculty of
enjoyments

You mean by being more sensitive to pain V

Yes, though that sounds rather like Dickens'
Mrs. Gum midge, when she thought she felt
smoky chimneys more than other people.'

He laughed.

How I wish you could turn over your work
to me, and go to Switzerland tomorrow in ray
place ! Only I should wish to be there, too, for
the sake of seeing you enjoy it.'

Do you go tomorrow V
Yes, with my father.'

Ah ! how delightful ! I confess I do envy
you a little. I do long to see snow mountains.
Always living in London makes one '

He interrupted her with a sort of exclamation
of horror.

Oh ! don't abuse London !' she said, laughing.
* If one must live all the year round in one
place, I would rather bo there than anywhere.
When I hear people abusing it, I always think
they don't know how to use their eyes. What
can be moro lovely, for instance, than the view
from Greenwich Park by the observatory ?
Don't you know that beautiful clump of Scotch
firs in the foreground, and then the glimpse of
the river through the trees? And then there is

that lovely part by Queen Elizabeth's oak. The
view from the bridge, too, over the Serpentine,
how exquisite that is on a summer afternoon,
with the Westminster towers standing up in a
golden haze. Or Kensington Gardens in the
autumn, when the leaves are turning, and there
is blue mist in the background against the dark
tree trunks. I think I love every inch of
London !'

Leslie Cunningham would have listened to
the praises of the Black Country, if only for the
sake of hearing her voice.

Well, as far as England goes, you are in the
right place for scenery now ; I know few lovelier
parts than this.'

What are those lights on the lower terrace?*
asked Erica, suddenly.

Glow-worms. Have you never seen them ?
Come and look at them nearer.'

^ Oh, I should like to !' she said, with the
charming enthusiasm and eagerness which delighted
him so much.

To guide her down the steps in the dusky
garden, to feel her hand on his arm, to hear her
fresh, naive remarks, and then to recall what

VOL. II. T

Donovan Farrant had just told him about her
strange, sad story, all seemed to draw him on
irresistibly. He had had three or four tolerably
serious flirtations, but now he knew that he had
never before really loved.

Erica was delighted with the glow-worms,
and delighted with the dewy fragrance of the
garden, and delighted with the soft, balmy
stillness of the night. She was one of those
who revel in Nature, and all that she said was
evidently the overflow of a rapturous happiness,
curiously contrasting with the ordinary set remarks
of admiration, or falsely sentimental outbursts
too much in vogue. But Leslie Cunningham
found that the child-likeness was not
only in manner, but that Erica had no idea of
flirting; she was bright, and merry, and talkative,
but she had no thought, no desire of attracting
his attention. She had actually and
literally come out into the garden to see the
glow-worms, not to monopolise the much-rafter
young M.P., and as soon as she had seen
them she said she felt cold, and suggested
going back again.

He was disappointed, but the words were so

perfectly sincere, so free from suspicion of mere
conventionality, that there was nothing for it
but to return. Half amused, half piqued, but
wholly in love, he speedily forgot himself in
real anxiety.

I hope you haven't taken cold,' he said, with
great solicitude.

Oh, no,' said Erica ; ' but 1 want to be careful,
for the night-school work will be beginning
soon, and I must go home fresh for that.'

Something in her words broke the spell of
perfect, unbroken happiness which had hitherto
held him. Was it the mention of her everyday
life, with its surroundings unknown to
him ? or was it some faint perception that in
the world of duty to which she referred their
paths could not rightly converge ? A cold chill
crept over him.

You were quite right,' he said, with an involuntary
shiver. ' It is decidedly cold out
here ; the mist rises from the river, I expect, or
else your reference to the working-day world
has recalled me from fairyland. You should
not speak of work in such a place as this — it is
incongruous.'

t2

She smiled.

Ernst list cas lehen^' she replied, quietly. * One
can't forget that even at such a time as this,
and in such a place.'

How is it that some never forget that for a
moment, while others never remember it at all
he said, musingly.

Some of us have no excuse for ever forgetting,'
she answered — ' hardly a chance either.'

And though the words were vague, they
shadowed out to him much of her life — a life
never free from sorrow, burdened with constant
care and anxiety, and ever confronted by some
of the most perplexing world-problems. A
longing to shield, and protect, and comfort her
rose in his heart, yet all the time he instinctively
knew that hers was the stronger nature.

It seemed that the seriousness of life was to
be borne-in upon them specially that evening,
for, returning to the drawing-room, they found
Donovan released from his interview, and relating
with some indignation the pitiable story
he had just heard. It only reached Leslie Cunningham
in fragments, however — overcrowding,
children sleeping six in a bed, two of them

-with scarlet fever, no fever hospital, no accommodation
for them, an inspector, medical officer,
the board — how drearily dry all the details
seemed to him I He could do nothing but
watch Erica's eager face, with its ever varying
play of expression. Be hardly knew whether
to be angry with Donovan Farrant for alluding
to matters which brought a look of sadness to
the golden eyes, or to thank him for the story
which made her face light up with indignation,
and look, if possible, more beautiful than before.

Don't offer to put up a fever shanty on the
lawn,' said Gladys, when her husband paused.

^ I wish we had an empty cottage where we
could put them,' said Donovan; "but I am
afraid all I can do is to bring pressure to bear
upon the authorities. We'll ride over together,
Cunningham, and Jack Trevelyan our manager,
shall show yon the tavern, while I rout
out this medical officer.'

They had had tea ; there was no longer any
excuse for delaying. Leslie, with an outward
smile and an inward sigh, turned to take leave
of Erica. She was bending over a basket in
which was curled up the invalid fox-terrier.

For a moment she left off stroking the white
and tan head, and held out her hand.

Good-bye,' she said, frankly.

That was all! And yet it made Leslie's
heart bound. Was he indeed to go to Switzerland
tomorrow ? He must manage to get out
of it somehow.

And all the way to Greyshot he listened to
schemes for the work to be done next session,
from the ardent sanitary reformer, though just
then the devastation of all England would
scarcely have roused him, so long as he was assured
of the safety of Luke Raeburn's daughter.

CHAPTER XII.

THE HAPPIEST OF WEEKS.

He went in the strength of dependence
To tread where his Master trod,
To gather and knit together
The family of God.

With a conscience freed from burdens,
And a heart set free from care,
To minister to everyone
Always and everywhere.
Author of Chronicles of the Schonherg Cotta Family.

After this came a happy, uneventful week at
the manor. Erica often thought of the definition
of happiness which Charles Osmond had
once given her — 'Perfect harmony with your
surroundings.' She had never been so happy
in her life. Waif, who was slowly recovering,
grew pathetically fond of his rescuer. The children
were devoted to her, and she to them.
She learnt to love Gladys very much, and from

her she learnt a good deal which helped her to
understand Donovan's past life. Then, too, it
was the first time in her life that she had ever
been in a house where there were little children,
and probably Ralph and Dolly did more
for her than countless sermons or whole libraries
of theology could have done.

Above all, there was Donovan, and the friendship
of such a man was a thing which made life
a sort of wordless thanksgiving. At times
even in those she loved best, even in her father
or Charles Osmond, she was conscious of something
which jarred a little ; but so perfect washer
sympathy with Donovan, so closely and
strangely were their lives and characters linked
together, that never once was the restfulness of
perfect harmony broken — Nature* and circumstance
had, as it vere, tuned them to each
other. He could understand, as no one else could
understand, the reversal of thought and feeling
which she had passed through during the last
few months. Ho could understand the perplexities
of her present position, suddenly confronted
with the world of wealth and fashion
and conventional religion, and fresh from a

circle where, whatever the errors held and promulgated,
the life was so desperately earnest,
often so nobly self-denying. He knew that Mr.
Fane-Smith, good man as he was, must have
been about the severest of trials to a new-born
faith. He understood how Mr. Cuthbert's malice
would tend to re-awaken the harsh class judgment
against which, as a Christian, Erica Alas
bound to struggle. He could fully realise the
irritated, ruffled state she was in — she was overdone,
and wanted perfect rest and quiet, perfect
love and sympathy. He and his wife gave her
all these, took her not only to their house, but
right into their home, and how to do this no
one knew so well as Donovan, perhaps because
he had once been in much the same position
himself. It-was his most leisure month, the
time he always devoted to home and wife and
children, so that Erica saw a great deal of him.
He seemed to her the ideal head of an ideal yet
real home. It was one of those homes — and
thank God there are such ! — where belief in the
Unseen reacts upon the life in the seen, making
it so beautiful, so loveable, that, when you go
out once more into the ordinary world, you go

With a widened heart, and the realisation that
the Kingdom of Heaven of which (Christ spoke
does indeed begin upon earth.

It is strange, in tracing the growth of spontaneous
love, to notice how independent it is of
time. Love annihilates time — with love, as
with God, time is not. Like the miracles, it
brings into use the baronial measurement in
which ' one day is as a thousand years, and a
thousand years as one day.' A week, even a
few hours, may give us love and knowledge and
mutual sympathy with one which the intercourse
of many years fails to give with another.

The week at Oakdene was one which all her
life long Erica looked back to with the loving
remembrance which can gild and beautify the
most sorrowful of lives. It is surely a mistake
to think that the memory of past delights makes
present pain sharper. If not, why do we all so
universally strive to make the lives of children
happy 'i Is it not because we know that happiness
in the present will give a sort of reflected
happiness-even in the saddest future? Is it
not because we jaiow how in life's bitterest
moments, its most barren and desolate paths,

-we feel a warmth about our heart, a smile upon
our lips when we remember the old home days
with their eager , childish interests and hopes,
their vividly recollected pleasures, their sheltered
luxuriance of fatherly and motherly love?
For how many thousands did the poet speak
when he wrote —

The thought of our past years in me cloth breed
Perpetual benediction.'

A benediction which outlives the cares and

troubles of later life — which we may carry with

us to our dying day, and find perfected indeed

in that Unseen, where

All we have willed, or hoped, or dreamed of good shall

exist,
Not its semblance, but itseK,'

There was only one bit of annoyance during

the whole time ; it was on the Sunday, the day

before Erica was to go back to Greyshot.

Gladys was not very well and stated at home,

but Donovan and Erica went to church with

the children, starting rather early that-they

might enjoy the lovely autumn morning, and

also that they might put the weekly wreaths on

two graves in the little churchyard. Donovan

himself put the flowers upon the first, Ralph

and Dolly talking softly together about ' little
annie Dot,' then running off hand-in-hand to
make the ' captain's gave plitty,' as Dolly
expressed it. Erica, following them, glanced at
the plain white headstone and read the name,
John Frewin, some time captain o^ the MetoraJ

Then they went together into the little country
church, and all at once a shadow fell on
her heart ; for, as they entered at the west
end, the clergy and the choristers entered the
chancel, and she saw that Mr. Cuthbert was to
take the service. The rector was taking his
holiday, and had enlisted help from Greyshot.

Happily no man has it in his power to mar
the Church of England service, but by-and-by
came the sermon. Now Mr. Cuthbert cordially
detested Donovan, he made no secret of it. He
opposed and thwarted him on every possible
occasion, and it is to be feared that personal
malice had something to do with his choice of
a subject for that morning's sermon.

He had brought over to Oakdene a discourse
on the eternity of punishment. Perhaps he
honestly believed that people could be frightened
to Heaven, at any rate he preached a

most ghastly sermon, and, what was worse,
preached it with vindictive energy. The poor,
mangled, much-distorted text about the tree
lying as it falls was brought to the fore once
again, and, instead of bearing reference to universal
charity and almsgiving as it was intended
to do, was ruthlessly torn from its context
and turned into a parable about the state of
the soul at death. The words * damned ' and
damnation,' with all their falsely theologist
significance, rang through the little church and
made people shudder, though all the time the
speaker knew well enough that there were no
such words in the New Testament. Had he
been there himself to see, he could not have
described his material hell more graphically.
Presently, leaning right over the pulpit, his
eyes fixed on the manor pew just beneath him,
he asked, in thundering tones, — 'Brethren,
have you ever realised what the word LOST
means V Then came a long catalogue of those
who in Mr. Cuthbert's opinion would undoubtedly
be * lost,' in which of course all Erica's
friends and relatives were unhesitatingly placed.
Now to hear what we sincerely believe to

be error crammed down the throats of a congregation
is at all times a great trial ; but, when
our nearest and dearest are remorselessly
thrust down to the nethermost hell, impatience
is apt to turn to wrath. Erica thought of her
gentle, loving, unselfish mother, and though
nothing could alter her conviction that long
ere now she had learnt the truths hidden from
her in life, yet she could not listen to Mr.
Cuthbert's horrible words without indignant t
emotion. A movement from Donovan recalled
her. Little Dorothy was on his knee fast
asleep ; he quietly reached out his hand, took
up Erica's prayer-book, which was nearest to
him, and wrote a few words on the fly-leaf,
handing the book to her. She read them.
Definition of LOST : not found yet.' Tien the
anger and grief and pain died away, and,
though the preacher still thundered overhead,
God's truth stole into Erica's heart once more
by means of one of his earliest consecrated
preachers — a little child. Once more Dolly and
her father were to her a parable ; and presently,
glancing away through the sunny south window,
her eye fell upon a small marble tablet

just below it that she bad not before noticed,
and this furnished her with thoughts which
outlasted the sermon.

At the top was a medallion, the profile of
the same fine, soldierly-looking man whose portrait
hung in Donovan's study, and which was
so wonderfully like both himself and little
Ralph. Beneath Alas the following inscription :

In loving Memory of

Ralph Warrant,

Who died at Porthkerran, Cornwall, May 3, 18 — ,

Aged 45.

Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above,
and Cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is
no variableness nor shadow of turning.'

The date was sixteen years back, but the
tablet was comparatively new, and could not
have been up more than six years at the outside.
Erica was able partly to understand why
Donovan had chosen for it that particular text,
and nothing could more effectually have counteracted
Mr. Cuthbert's sermon than the thoughts
which it awoke in her.

Nevertheless, she did not quite get over the
ruffled feeling, which was now in a great
measure physical, and it was with a sense of

relief tluit she found herself again in the open
air, in the warmth, and sunshine, and gladness
of the September day. Donovan did not say a
word. They passed through the little churchyards
and walked slowly up the winding lane ;
the children, who had stopped to gather a fine
cluster of blackberries, were close behind them.
In the silence, every word of their talk could be
distinctly heard.

I don't like God !' exclaimed Ralph, abruptly.

Oh, you naughty !' exclaimed Dolly, much
shocked.

• No, it isn't naughty. I don't think He's
good. Why, do you think father would let us
be shut up in a horrid place for always and
always? Course he wouldn't. I 'sects, if
we'd got to go, he'd come too.'

Donovan and Erica looked at each other.
Donovan turned round, and held out his hand,
at which both children rushed.

'Ralph,' he said, 'if anyone told you that I
might some day leave off loving you, leave olT
being your father — what would you do V

I'd knock them down !' said Ralph, clenching
his small fist.

Donovan laughed a little, but did not then
attempt to prove the questionable wisdom of
such a proceeding.

Why would you feel inclined to knock them
down T he asked.

Because it would be a wicked lie !' cried
Ralph. 'Because I know you never could, father.'

You are quite right. Of course I never
could. You would never believe anyone who
told you that I could, because you would know
it was impossible. But just now you believed
what some one said about God, though you
wouldn't have believed it of me. Never believe
anything which contradicts "Our Father."
It will be our Father punishing us now and
hereafter, and you may be sure that He will do
the best possible for all His children. You are
quite sure that I should only punish you to do
you good, and how much more sure may you be
that Gods who loves you so much more, will do
the same, and will never give you up.'

Ralph looked hard at his bunch of blackberries,
and was silent. Many thoughts were
working in his childish brain. Presently he
said, meditatively,

VOL. II. U

He did short it out so loud and horrid ! I
repose he had forgotten about '' Our Father*'
But, you see, Dolly, it was all a mistake.
Come along ! let's race down the drive.'

Off they ran. Erica fancied that Donovan
watched there rather sadly.

'I thought Ralph was listening in church
she said. * Fancy a child of his age thinking it
all out like that !'

Children think much more than people
imagine,' said Donovan. ' And a child invariably
carries out a doctrine to its logical conclusion.
'Tis wonderful the fine sense of justice
which you always find in them !'

Ralph inherits that from you, I should think.
How exactly like you he is, specially when he
is puzzling out some question in his own mind.'

A strange shadow passed over Donovan's
face. He was silent for a moment.

'Tis hard to bo brave for one s own child,'
he said at last. ' I confess that the thought that
Ralph may have to live through what I have
lived through is almost unendurable to me.'

How vexed you must have been that he
heard to-day's sermon,' said Erica.

*Xotnow,' he replied. 'He has heard and
taken in the other side, and has instinctively
recognised the truth. If I had had some one to
say as much to me when I was his age, it might
have saved me twenty years of atheism.'

It is not only children who are repulsed by
this,' said Erica. ' Or learned men like James
Mill. I know well enough that hundreds of my
father's followers were driven away from Christianity
merely by having this view constantly
put before them. How were they to know that
half the words about it were mis translations ?
How were they to study when they were hard
at work from week's end to week's end ? It
seems to me downright wicked of scholars and
learned men to keep their light hidden away
under a bushel, and then pretend that they fear
the *' people" are not ready for it.'

As though God's truth needed bolstering up
with error I' exclaimed Donovan. ' As though
to believe a hideous lie could ever be right or
helpful ! There's a vast amount of Jesuitry
among well-meaning Protestants.'

'And always will be, I should think,' said
Erica. ' As long as people will think of poses



able consequences, instead of the absolutely true.
But I could forgive them all, if their idea of the
danger of telling the people were founded on
real study of the people. But is it? How
many of the conserves of half truths, who talk
so loudly about the effect on the masses, have
personally known the men who go to make up
the masses V

Yes, you are right,' said Donovan. *As a
rule, I fancy the educated classes know less
about the working classes than they do about
the heathen, and, I am afraid, care less about
them. You have an immense advantage there
both as a writer and a worker, for I suppose
you really have been brought into contact with
them.'

Yes,' said Erica, ' all my life. How I should
like to confront mr. Cuthbert with a man like
Hazeldine, or with dozens of others whom I
could name I'

Why V asked Donovan.

Because no one could really know such men
without learning where the present systems
want mending. If Hazeldine could be shut
into Mr. Cuthbert's study for a few hours, and

induced to tell the story of his life, T believe he
would have the effect of the ancient mariner on
the wedding guest. Only, the worst of it is,
I'm afraid the very look of Mr. Cuthbert would
quite shut him up.'

Tell me about him,' said Donovan.

It is nothing at second hand,' said Erica.
'He is a shoemaker, as grand-looking a fellow
as you ever saw, fond of reading, and very
thoughtful, and with more quiet commonsense
than almost anyone I ever met. He had been
brought up to believe in verbal inspiration —
that had been thoroughly crammed down his
throat ; but no one had attempted to touch upon
the contradictions, the thousand and one difficulties
which of course he found directly he
began to study the Bible. So he puzzled and
puzzled, and got more and more dissatisfied,
and never in church heard anything which explained
his difficulties. At last one day in his
workshop a man lent him a number of the Idol-breaker,
and in it was a paper by my father on
the Atonement. It came to him like a great
light in his darkness; he says he shall never
forget the sudden conviction that the man who

vote that article understood every one of his
difficulties, and would be able to clear them
right away. The next Sunday he went to hear
my father lecture. I believe it would make the
veriest flint cry to hear his account of it, to seethe
look of reverent love that comes over his
face when he says, " And there I found Mr.
Raeburn ready to answer all my difficulties, not
holding one at arm's length and talking big and
patronising for all he was so clever, but just
like a mate." That man would die for my
father any day — hundreds of them would.'

I can well believe it said Donovan. Then,
after a pause, he added, ' To induce Christians
to take a fair, unprejudiced look at true secularism,
and to induce secularists to take a fair,
unprejudiced view of true Christ-following, seems
to me to be the great need of to-day.'

If one could !" said Erica, with a long-drawn
sigh.

If anyone can, you can he replied.

She looked up at him quickly, awed by the
earnestness of his tone. Was she — a young
girl, conscious of so many faults and failings,
conscious of being at the very threshold herself

to dare even to attempt such a task ? Yet
was it a question of daring to attempt ? Was
it not rather the bit of work mapped out for
her, to undertake, perhaps to fail in, but still
bravely to attempt ? Her heart throbbed with
eager yearning as the vision rose before her.
What was mere personal pain? what was injustice?
what was misunderstanding? Why,
in such a cause she could endure anything !

1 would die to help on that I' she said, in a
low voice.

Will you live for it V asked Donovan , with
his rare, beautiful smile. ' Live, and do something
more than endure the Lady Carolines and
Mr. Cuthbert?'

Few things are more inspiriting than the
realisation that we are called to some special
work which will need our highest faculties, our
untiring exertions — which will demand all that
is good in us, and will make growth in good
imperative. With the peacefulness of that
country Sunday was interwoven a delicious
perception that hard, beautiful work lay beyond.
Erica wandered about the shady Mount-shire
woods with Gladys and the children, and

in the cool restful ness, in the stillness and
beauty, got a firm hold of her lofty ideal, and
rose above the petty vexations and small frictions
which had been spoiling her life at
Overshot.

The manor grounds were always thrown
open to the public on Sunday, and a band in
connection with one of the temperance societies
played on the lawn. Donovan had been much
persecuted by the Sabbatarians for sanctioning
this ; but, though sorry to offend anyone, he
could not allow what he considered mistaken
scruples to interfere with such a boon to the
public. Crowds of working men and women
came each week away from their densely-packed
homes into the pure country ; the place was
for the time given up to them, and they soon
learnt to love it, to look upon it as a property
in which they had a real and recognised share.

Squire Ward, who owned the neighbouring
estate, grumbled a good deal at the intrusion
of what he called the ' rabble ' into quiet
Oakdene.

That's the worst of such men as Farrant,' he
used to say. ' They begin by rushing to one

extreme, and end by rushing to the other.
Such a want of steady conservative balance !
He's a good man ; bnt, poor fellow, he'll never
be like other people, never !^

Mrs.Ward was almost inclined to think that he
had been less obnoxious in the old times. As a
professed atheist, he could be shunned and ignored,
but his uncomfortably practical Christianity
had a way of shaking up the sleepy
neighbourhood, and the neighbourhood did not
at all like being shaken !

CHAPTER XIII.

GREYSHOT AGAIN.

To what purpose do you profess to believe in the unity of
the human race, which is the necessary consequence of the
unity of Goal, if you do not strive to verify it by destroying
the arbitrary divisions and enmities that still separate the
different tribes of humanity V Why do we talk of fraternity
while we allow any of our brethren to be trampled on, de-gradual,
or despised ? The earth is our workshop. We may
not curse it, we are bound to sanctify it . . . "We must strive
to make of humanity one single family. — Mazzini.

Erica's appearance at Lady Caroline's dinner-party
had caused a sort of storm in a tea-cup ;
the small world of Greyshot was in a state of
ferment, and poor Mrs. Fane-Smith suffered a
good deal from the consciousness that she and
her family were the subject of all the gossip of
the place. Her little expedients had filled, and
she began to reflect ruefully that perfect sincerity,
plain honesty, would have been the best
policy, after all. By the time that a week had
passed, however, censure and harsh comments

began to give place to curiosity, and the result
of this was that on Monday, which was Mrs.
Fane-Smith's 'at home' day, Greyshot found
it convenient to call in large numbers.

Erica, returning from Oakdene in the afternoon,
found her work awaiting her. Her heart
beat rather quickly when, on entering the
drawing-room, she found it full of visitors : she
half-smiled to herself to find such an opportunity
of beginning Donovan's work. And very
bravely she set about it. Those who had come
from curiosity not unmixed with malice were
won in spite of themselves ; even Mr. Cuthbert,
who bore down upon her with the full intention
of making her uncomfortable, found himself
checkmated as effectually as at Lady Caroline's
dinner-table, though in a very different way.

I think I saw you in church yesterday morning?'
he remarked, by way of introducing a
discordant subject.

Yes,' replied Erica, ' I have been staying at
Oakdene Manor, and had a most delicious time.'

Sharing Mr. Farrant's philanthropic labours V
asked Mr. Cuthbert, with his unpleasant smile*

She laughed.

Xo ; I have been thoroughly lazy, and September
is their holiday month, too. You would
have been amused to see us the other evening
all hard at work making paper frogs like so
many children.'

Paper frogs I' said Mr. Cuthbert, with an intonation
that suggested sarcasm.

Yes ; have you ever seen them V asked
Erica. * I don't think many people know how
to make them. Feltrino taught me when I was
a little girl — I'll show you, if you like.'

'Did you ever meet Feltrino?' asked Lady
Caroline.

She knew very little of the Italian patriot. In
his lifetime he had been despised and rejected,
but he was now dead ; his biography — a well-written
one — was in all the circulating libraries,
and even those who were far from agreeing
with his political views, had learnt something
of the nobility of his character. So there was
both surprise and envy in Lady Caroline's tone;
she had a weakness for celebrities.

I saw him once when I was seven years
old,' said Erica. * He knew my father, and one
day we were overtaken by a tremendous

shower, and happened to meet Feltrino, who
made us come into his rooms and wait till it
was over. And while they talked Italian
politics I sat and watched hit. He had the
most wonderful eyes I ever saw, and presently,
looking up and seeing me, he laughed and took
me on his knee, saying that politics must not
spoil my holiday, and that he would show me
how to make Japanese frogs. Once, when he
was imprisoned, and was hardly allowed to
have any books, the making of these frogs kept
him from going mad, he said.'

While she spoke she had been deftly folding
a sheet of paper, and several people were
watching curiously. Before very long the frog
was completed, and the imitation proved so
clever that there was an unanimous chorus of
approval and admiration. Everyone wanted
to learn how to make them ; the Feltrino frogs
became the topic of the afternoon, and Erica
fairly conquered the malicious tongues. She
was superintending Lady Caroline's first attempt
at a frog, when a familiar name made
her look up.

Mrs. Cunningham — Mr. Leslie Cunningham.*

'I thought you were in Switzerland I' she
exclaimed, as he crossed the room and shook
bauds with her.

I never got further than Paris,' he said,
smiling. ' My brother has gone instead, and I
am going to follow your example and study
the beauties of English scenery.'

Perhaps Greyshot opinion was more conciliated
by the long talk with Mr. Leslie Cunningham,
M.P., than even by the Feltrino frogs.
To have Luke Raeburn's daughter suddenly
thrust into the midst of their select society at
Lady Caroline's dinner was one thing — they
had one and all shunned her. But when she
proved to be, after all, clever, and fascinating,
and original, when they knew that she had
sat on Feltrino's knee as a little child, above
all, when they saw that Leslie Cunningham
was talking to her w^itli mingled friendliness
and deference, they veered round. Politically,
they hated Sir Michael Cunningham, but in society
they were pleased enough to meet him,
and in Greyshot, naturally enough, his son was
a ' lion.' Greyshot made much of him during
his stay at Blachingbury, and he found it very

convenient just then to be made much of.
Hardly a day of that week passed in which
he did not in some way meet Erica, He met
her in the park with her aunt; he sat next to
her at an evening concert ; he went to the
theatre and watched her all through * Hamlet,'
and came to the Fane-Smith's box between the
acts. Yet, desperately as he was in love, he
could not delude himself with the belief that
she cared for him. She was always bright,
talkative, frank, even friendly, but that was
all. Yet her unlikeness to the monotonously
same girls, whom he was in the habit of meeting,
fascinated him more and more each day.
She was to go back to town on the Monday ;
on Friday it so happened that she met Leslie
Cunningham at a great flower-show, and with
perfect unconsciousness piqued him almost
beyond endurance. Now at last he hoped to
make her understand his admiration. They
discussed ' Hamlet,' and he had just brought
the conversation adroitly round to the love-scene
in the third act, when Erica suddenly
dashed his hopes to the ground.

'Oh, how lovely!' she exclaimed, pausing

before a beautiful exotic. ' Surely that must bean
orchid?'

And the reluctant Leslie found the conversation
drifting round to botany, about which he
knew little and cared less. Once more his
hopes were raised only to be frustrated. lie
was sitting beside Mrs. Fane-Smith and Erica,
and had managed to stem the tide of the
botany. The band was playing. Erica, half
listening to the music and half attending to his
talk, looked dreamily peaceful ; surely now was
the time ! But all at once the clear golden
eyes looked up with their perfectly wide-awake
interest, and she exclaimed,

I do wish the Warrants would come ! they
certainly meant to be here. I can't make it out.'

Leslie patiently talked about the member for
Greyshot ; but, just when he hoped he was quit
of the subject, Erica gave an exclamation of
such unfeigned delight that a consuming envy
took possession of him.

Oh, there he is ! and Ralph and Dolly too !'

And in a moment the Oakdene party had
joined them, and Leslie saw that his chances
for that day were over. Before long he had

made his escape, leaving the grounds not
moodily, but with the light of a new and eager
determination in his eye.

Erica, returning from the flower-show late in
the afternoon, found a note awaiting her, and
opened it unconcernedly enough on her way
up to her room. But the first glance at it
brought a glow of colour to her face and a
nameless fear to her heart. She ran on quickly,
locked her door, and by the ruddy firelight
read in a sort of dumb dismay her first offer of
marriage. This then was the meaning of it all.
This was the cause of his hurried return to
England ; this had brought her the long talks
which had been so pleasant, yes, strangely unaccountably
pleasant. Yet, for all that, she
knew well enough that she had nothing to
give in return for the love revealed in every
word of the letter. She liked him, liked to
talk to him, thought him clever and interesting,
but that was all. His wife ! Oh, no ! impossible
! That could never be ! And then, as
usual, even in the midst of her strange sense of
discomfort and perplexity, there came a flash of
humour which made her laugh noiselessly in the
VOL. II. X

dim light. ' Tom would call me Mrs. Slybacon !'
But a second reading of the letter made her
look grave. She was very much puzzled to
know how to answer it ; how, in refusing, to
give him least pain. There was nothing
else to hesitate about, of her own mind she was
quite sure. There was only an hour till post
time. Lie must write at once, and she must
write in a way which could not be mistaken.
There was not a grain of coquetry about Erica.
After some thought she wrote the following
lines :

Dear ]mr. Cunningham,

Your letter surprised me very much
and pained me, too, because in replying I fear
I must give you pain. T thank you for the
honour you have done me, but I can never be
your wife. Even if I could return your love,
which I cannot, it could never be right. People
are so prejudiced that the connection of
our names might greatly injure your public
work, and, besides, you could not live in the
circle in which I live, and nothing could ever
make.it right for me to leave my own people.

I cannot write as I should like to — I cannot say
what I would, or thank you as I would — but
please understand me, and

Believe me, yours very sincerely,
Erica Raeburn.'

Strangely enough the writing of that letter,
the realisation of the impossibility of accepting
Leslie Cunningham's offer, opened out to
Erica a new region, started her upon a new
stage of her life-progress. In spite of her
trouble at the thought of the pain she must
give, there was an indefinable sense that life
and love meant much more, than she had
hitherto dreamed of ; and, though for the next
few days she was a little grave and silent,
there rang in her ears the refrain,

Oh, life, oh, beyond,
Thou art strange, thou art sweet.'

She was not sorry that her visit was drawing
to a close, although the last week had gone
much more smoothly. Her vigorous nature
began to long to return to the working-day
world, and though she 'could very honestly
thank Mr. Fane-Smith for his kindness, she

x2

turned her back on his house with unmixed
satisfaction.

And you cannot change your mind as to my
suggestion V he asked, sending off one parting
arrow.

'I cannot said Erica, firmly, 'he is my father.'

You must of course make your own choice,'
he said, with a sigh. ' But you are sadly
wrong, sadly wrong ! In my opinion your
father is '

'Forgive me for interrupting you,' said Erica,
but by your own showing you have no right,
to have any opinion whatever about my father.
Until you have either learnt to know him personally,
heard him speak, or fairly and carefully
studied his writings, you have no grounds to
form an opinion upon.'

But the current opinion is '

'The current opinion is no more an opinion
than yours! It is the view of . most bitter
opponents. And, candidly, would you accept
the current opinion heh of any prominent
statesman by his adversaries? Why, the best
men having are represented as fiends in human
shape by their enemies ! And if this is so in

political matters, how much more in such a case
as my father's

Mr. Fane-Smith, who was a well-meaning
though narrow man, sighed again ; it was always
very painful to him to listen to views
which did not coincide with his own.

Well,' he said, at length, ' there is, after all,
the hope that you may convert him.'

I hope you don't want me to turn into one
of those hateful little prigs, who go about lamenting
over their unregenerate parents said
Erica, naughtily. Then, softening down, she
added, ' I think I know what you mean — perhaps
I was wrong to speak like that, only
somehow, knowing what my father is, it does
grate so to put it in that way. But don't think
I would not give my life for him to come to the
light here and now, — for I would ! — I would !'

She clasped her hands tightly together, and
turned quickly away.

Mr. Fane-Smith was touched.

Well, my dear he said. ' You may be
right, after all, and I may be wrong. All my
anxiety is only for your ultimate good

The train was on the point of starting, he

gave her a warm handshake, aud in spite of all
that jarred in their respective natures, Erica ended
by liking him the best of her new relations.

CHAPTER Xii.

SLANDER LEAVES A SLUR.

For slander lives upon succession,
For ever housed, where it once gets possession.

Comedy of Errors.
Not out of malice, but mere zeal,
Because he was an infidel.

Hudibras.

Blessed old London, how delightful it is to
come back to it !' exclaimed Erica, as she and
Tom drove home from Haddington on the afternoon
of her return from Greyshot. 'Tell the
man not to go through the back streets, there's
a good boy ! Ah, he's doing it of his own accord
! Why, the park trees are much browner
than the Moonshine ones !'

*We have been prophesying all manner of
evil about your coming back,' said Tom, looking
her over critically from head to foot. 'I

believe rather thought yon would never come
that the good Christians down at Greyshot
having caught you would keep you, and even
the chieftain was the least bit in the world
uneasy.'

Nonsense,' said Erica, laughing, ' he knows
better !'

'But they did want to keep you V
Yes.'

How did you get out of it ?'
Said, "Much obliged to you, but Fd rather
not' Enacted Mrs. Micawber, you know, " I
never will, no, I never will leave Mr. Micawber."
'

'Mr. Fane-Smith must be a brute ever to
have proposed such a thing !'

'Oh, no I not at all I Within certain limits
he is a kind-hearted man, only he is one of
those who believe in that hateful saying, '^ Men
without the knowledge of God are cattle."
And, believing that, would treat atheists as I
should be sorry to treat Friskarina.'

'And what is the world of Greyshot like?'
It is very lukewarm about public questions,
and very boiling hot about its own private

affairs,' said Erica. ' But I have learnt now how
people in society can go on contentedly living
their easy lives in the midst of such ignorance and
misery. They never investigate, and when any
painful instance is alluded to, they say " Oh !
but it cant be true !*' The other day they were
speaking of Kingsley's pamphlet, " Cheap clothes
and nasty," and one lady said that was quite an
devil of the past, that the difficulty now-a-days
was to get things at reasonable prices. Ashen
I told her that women only get twopence for
doing all the machine-work of an ulster, and
have to provide their machine, cotton, food,
light, and fuel, she exclaimed, " Oh, that is incredible
! It must be exaggerated ! Such things
couldn't be now I" When Aunt Isabel heard
that I had known cases of men being refused
admission to a hospital supported by public
subscriptions, on the ground of their atheism,
she said it was impossible. And as to physical
ill-treatment, or, in fact, any injustice having
ever been shown by Christian to atheist, she
would not hear of it. It was always " My dear,
the atmosphere in which you have lived has
distorted your vision," or , '' You have been told,

ray dear, that these things were so !"' To tell
her that they were facts which could be verified
was not the smallest good, for she wouldn't so
much as touch any publication connected with
secularism;

None are so blind as those who will not
see,' said Tom. ' They will go ou in this way
till some great national crisis, some crash which
they can't ignore, wakes them up from their
comfortable state. "It can't be truest' is no
doubt a capital narcotic'

Father is at home, I suppose ? How do you
think he is V

Oh, very well, but fearfully busy. The
"Miracles" trial will probably come on in
November.'

Erica sighed. There was a silence. She
looked out rather sadly at the familiar Oxford
Street shops.

You have not come back approving of the
Blasphemy Laws, I hope V said Tom, misinterpreting
her sigh.

Her eyes flashed.

Of course not!' she said, emphatically.

Mr. Osmond has, as usual, been getting into

hot water for speaking a word on the chieftain's
behalf.'

Did he speak ? I am glad of that,' said
Erica, brightening. * I expect Mr. Poison's
conduct will stir up a good many liberal Christians
into showing their disapproval of bigotry
and injustice. Ah ! here is the dear old square !
The statue looks ten degrees moulder than
when I left !'

In fact everything looked, as Erica expressed
it, ' moulder !' ' Persecution Alley the lodging
house, the very chairs and tables seemed to
obtrude their shabbiness upon her. Not that
she cared in the least ; for, however shabby, it
was home — the home that she had longed for
again and again in the luxury and ease of
Greyshot.

Raeburn looked up from a huge law book as
she opened the door of his study.

Why, little son Eric !' he exclaimed. ' You
came so quietly that 1 never heard you. Glad
to have you home again, my child ! The room
looks as if it needed you, doesnH it V

Erica laughed, for the study was indeed in a
state of chaos. Books were stacked up on the

floor, on trio mantelpiece, on the chairs, on the
very steps of the book-ladder. The writing
table was a sea of papers, periodicals, proofs,
and manuscripts, upon which there floated with
much difficulty Raeburn's writing-desk and the
book he was reading, some slight depression in
the surrounding mass of papers showing where
his elbows had been.

'About equal to Teufelsdroch's room, isn't it?'
he said, smiling. ' " Everything united in a
common element of dust." But, really, after the
first terrible day of your absence, when I wasted
at least an hour in hunting for things which the
tidy domestic had carefully hidden, I could
stand it no longer, and gave orders that no one
was to bring brush or duster or spirit of tidiness
within the place.'

We really must try to get you a larger
room,' said Erica, looking round. 'How little
and poky everything looks.'

'Has Greyshot made you discontented?'

Only for you,' she replied, laughing. ' I was
thinking of ]mr. Fane-Smith's great study ; it
seems such a pity that five foot three, with few
books and nothing to do. should have all that

space, and six foot four, with much work and
many books, be cramped up in this little room

What would you say to a move V

It will be such an expensive year, and there's
that dreadful Mr. Pogson always in the background.'


But if a house were given to us ? Where's
Tom ? I've a letter here which concerns you
both. Do either of you remember anything
about an old Mr. Woodward who lived at 16,
Guilford Squared

Why, yes ! Don't you remember, Tom ? The
old gentleman whose green-house we smashed

Rather !' said Tom-i've the marks of the
beastly thing now.'

What was it ? Let me hear the story V said
Raeburn, leaning back in his chair with a look
of amusement flickering about his rather stern
face.

Why, father, it was years ago ; you were on
your first tour in america. I must have been
about twelve, and Tom fourteen. We had only
just settled in here, you know ; and one unlucky
Saturday we were playing in the garden
at '^ King of the Castle." '

What's that?' asked Raeburn.

Why, Tom was king, and I was the republican
Army ; and Tom was standing on the
top of the wall trying to push me down. He
had to sing,

I'm the king of the castle !
Get down, you dirty rascal !"

And somehow — I don't know how it was —
instead of climbing up, I pushed him backwards
by mistake, and he went down with an awful
crash into the next garden. We knew it was
the garden belonging to No. 16 — quite a large
one it is — for the hospital hasn't any. And
when at last I managed to scramble on to the
wall, there was Tom, head downwards, with
his feet sticking up through the roof of a greenhouse,
and the rest of him all among the flowerpots.'


Raeburn laughed heartily.

There was a brute of a cactus jammed
against my face too,' said Tom. ' IIow I ever
got out alive was a marvel !'

'Well, what happened?' asked Raeburn.

'Why, wc went round to tell the No. IG
people. Tom waited outside, because ho was

so frightfully cut about, and I went in, and saw
an old, old man — a sort of Methuselah — who
would ask my name, and whether I had anything
to do with you

AVhat did you say to him V

I can't remember, except that I asked him tolet
us pay for the glass by instalments, and
tried to assure him that Secularists were not in
the habit of smashing other people's property.
He was a very jolly old man, and of course he
wouldn't let us pay for the glass, though he
frightened me dreadfully by muttering that he
shouldn't wonder if the glass and the honesty
combined cost him a pretty penny.'

Did you ever see him again V

*Not to speak to, but we always nodded to each
other when we passed in the square. I've not
seen him for ages. I thought he must be dead.'

He is dead,' said Raeburn ; ' and he has left
you three hundred pounds, and he has left me
his furnished house, with the sole proviso that
I live in it.'

AVhat a brick !' cried Tom and Erica, in a
breath. 'Now fancy, if we hadn't played at
'' King of the Castle " that day !'

'And if Erica had not been such a zealous
little Republican !' said Raeburn, smiling.

Why, father, the very green-house will
belong to you ; and such a nice piece of garden
! Oh, when can we go and see it. and
choose a nice room for your study V

I will see Mr. Woodward's executor tomorrow
morning,' said Raeburn. ' The sooner
we move in the better, for there are rocks
ahead.'

The " we " refers only to you and Erica,'
said Aunt Jean, who had joined them. ' Tom
and I shall of course stay on here.'

Oh, no, auntie !' cried Erica, in such genuine
dismay that Aunt Jean was touched.

I don't want you to feel at all bound to have
us,' she said. * Now that the worst of the
poverty is over, there is no necessity for clubbing
together.'

And after you had shared all the discomforts
with us, you think we should go off in
such a dog-in-the-mangerish way as that !' cried
Erica. * Besides, it really was chiefly owing to
Tom, who was the one to get hurt into the
bargain. If you won't come, I shall ' — she

paused to think of a threat terrible enough — * I
shall think again about living with the Fane-smiths.'


This led the conversation back to Greyhound
they lingered so long round the fire talking,
that Raeburn was for once unpunctual, and
kept an audience at least ten minutes waiting
for him.

No. 16, Guilford Square, proved to be much
better inside than a casual passer in the street
would have imagined. Outside, it was certainly
a grim-looking house, but within it was
roomy and comfortable. The lower rooms were
wainscotted in a sort of yellowish-brown colour,
the upper, wainscotted in olive-green. There
was no such thing as a wall-paper in the whole
house, and indeed it was hard to imagine, when
once inside it, that you were in nineteenth
century London at all.

Raeburn, going over it with Erica the following
evening, was a little amused to think of
himself domiciled in such an old-world house.
Mr. Woodward's housekeeper, who was still
taking care of the place, assured them that one
of the leaden pipes outside bore the date of the

VOL. II. Y

seventeenth century, though the two last figures
were so illegible that they might very possibly
have stood for 1699.

Erica was delighted with it all, and went on
private voyages of discovery, while her father
talked to the housekeeper, taking stock of the
furniture, imagining how she would re-arrange
the rooms, and planning many purchases to be
made with her three hundred pounds. She was
singing to herself for very lightness of heart
when her father called her from below. She
ran down again, checking her inclination to
sing as she remembered the old housekeeper,
who had but recently lost her master.

I've rather set my affections on this room
said Raeburn, leading her into what had formerly
been the dining-room.

'The very place where I came in fear and
trembling to make my confession said Erica,
laughing. ' This would make a capital study.'

Yes, the good woman has gone to fetch an
inch tape ; 1 want to measure for the bookshelves.
How many of my books could I
comfortably house in here, do you think?'

A good many. The room is high, you see ;

and those two long, unbroken walls would take
several hundred. Ah ! here is the measuring
tape. Now we can calculates

They were hard at work measuring when the
door-bell rang, and Tomes voice was heard in
the passage asking for Raeburn.

This way Tom !' called Erica. ' Come and
help us.'

But a laughing reference to the day of their
childish disaster died on her lips when she
caught sight of him, for she knew that something
was wrong. Accustomed all her life to
live in the region of storms, she had learnt to a
nicety the tokens of rough weather.

flazeldine wishes to speak to you,' said Tom,
turning to Raeburn. 'I brought him round
here to save time.'

Oh ! all right,' said Raeburn, too much absorbed
in planning the arrangement of his
treasures to notice the unusual graveness of
Tom's face. ' Ask him in here. Good evening,
Hazel dine. You are the first to see us in our
new quarters.'

Hazeldine bore traces of having lived from
his childhood a hard but sedentary life. He

y2

-was under-sized and narrow-chested. But the
face was a very striking one, the forehead finely
developed, the features clearly cut, and the
bright, dark eyes looking out on the world with
an almost defiant honesty, a clearness bordering
on hardness.

Raeburn, entirely putting aside for the time
his own affairs, and giving to his visitor his
whole and undivided attention, saw in an
instant that the man was in trouble.

Out of work again?' he asked. 'Anything
gone wrong V

No, sir,' replied Hazeldine ; ' but I came
round to ask if you'd seen this circular letter.
'Twas sent me this morning by a mate of mine
who's lately gone to Longstaff, and he says
that this Pogson is sowing them broadcast
among the hands right through all the workshops
in the place, and in all England, too, for
aught he knows. I wouldn't so much as touch
trio dirty thing, only I thought maybe you
hadn't heard of it.'

Without a word, Raeburn held out his hand
for the printed letter. Erica, standing at a
little distance, watched the faces of the three

men — Tom, grave, yet somewhat flushed ;
Hazeldine, with a scornful glitter in his dark
eyes; her father? Last of all she looked at
him, and looking, learnt the full gravity of this
new trouble. For, as he read, Raeburn grew
white, with the marble whiteness which means
that intense anger has interfered with the action,
of the heart. As he hastily perused the lines,
his eyes seemed to flash fire ; the hand which still
held the measuring-tape was clenched so tightly
that the knuckles looked like polished ivory.

Erica could not ask what was the matter, but
she came close to him. When he had finished
reading, the first thing his eye fell upon washer
face turned up to his with a mute appeal
which in spite of the anxiety in it, made her
look almost like a child. He shrank back as
she held out her hand for the letter ; it was so
foul a libel that it seemed intolerable to him
that his own child should so much as read a
line of it.

What is it?' she asked at length, speaking
with difficulty.

A filthy libel circulated by that liar Pogson !
A string of lies invented by his own evil brain I

Why should I keep it from you ? It is impossible
! The poisonous thing is sown broadcast
through the land ! You are of age — there —
read it, and see how vile a Christian can be I'

He was writhing under the insult, and was
too furious to measure his words. It was only
when he saw Erica's brave lip quiver that he
felt with remorse that he had doubled her pain.

She had turned a little away from him,
ostensibly to be nearer to the gas, but in reality
that he might not see the crimson colour which
surged up into her face as she read. Mr. Poison
was as unscrupulous as fanatics invariably
are. With a view of warning the public and inducing
them to help him in crushing the stile
doctrine he abhorred, he had tried to stimulate
them by publishing a sketch of Raeburn's personal
character and life, drawn chiefly from his
imagination, or from distorted and misquoted
anecdotes which had for years been bandied
about among his opponents, losing nothing in
the process. Hatred of the man Luke Raeburn
was his own great stimulus, and we are apt to
judge others by ourselves. The publication of
this letter really seemed to him likely to do

great good, and the evil passions of hatred
and bigotry had so inflamed his mind, that it
was perfectly easy for him to persuade himself
that the statements were true. Indeed, he only
followed with the multitude to do evil in this
instance, for not one in a thousand took the
trouble to verify their facts , or even their
quotations, when speaking of, or quoting, Raeburn.
The libel, to put it briefly, represented
Raeburn as a man who had broken every one of
the ten commandments.

Erica read steadily on, though every pulse in
her beat at double time. It was long before
she finished it, for a threefold chorus was going
on in her brain — Mr. Pogson's Bellows charges ;
the talk between her father and Hazeldine
which revealed all too plainly the harm already
done to the cause of Christianity by this one unscrupulous
man ; and her own almost despairing
cry to the Unseen —

Oh, Father I how is he ever to learn to know
Thee, when such things as these are done in
Thy name I'

That little sheet of paper had fallen among
them like a thunder-bolt.

I have passed over a great deal,' Raeburn
was saying when Erica looked up once rare.
'But I shall not pass over this ! Pogson shall
pay dearly for it. ^lany thanks, Hazeldine, for
bringing me word ; I shall take steps about it at
once.'

He left the room quickly, and in another
minute they heard the street door close behind
him.

That means an action for libel,' said Tom,
knitting his brows. ' And goodness only
knows what fearful work and worry for the
chieftain.'

But good to the cause in the long run !' said
Hazeldine. ' And, as for i\lr. Raeburn, he only
rises the higher the more they try to crush him.
He's like the bird that rises out of its own ashes
the phoenix, don't they call it?'

Erica smiled a little at the comparison, but
sadly.

Don't judge Christianity by this one bad
specimen,' she said, as she shook hands with
Hazeldine.

How do Christians judge us, bliss Erica,' he
replied, sternly.

Then be more just than you think they
are — as generous as you would have them
be.'

It's but a working-day world, miss, and I'm
but a working-day man. I can't set up to be
generous to them who treat a man as though
he was the dirt in the street. And if you Avill
excuse me mentioning it, miss, I could wish that
this shameful treatment would show to you
what a delusion it is you've taken u.p of late.'

'Mr. Pogson can hurt me very much, but not
so fatally as that,' said Erica, as much to herself
as to Hazeldine.

When he had gone she picked up the measure
once more, and turned to Tom.

'Help me just to jBnish this, Tom,' she said.
We must try to move in as quickly as maybe.'


Tom silently took the other end of the tape,
and they set to work again ; but all the enjoyment
in the new house seemed quenched and
destroyed by that blast of calumny. They
knew only too well that this was but the beginning
of troubles.

Raeburn, remembering his hasty speech, called

Erica into the study the moment he liearcl her
return. lie was still very pale, and with a
curiously rigid look about his face.

I was right, you see, in my prophecy of
rocks ahead he exclaimed, throwing down his
pen. ' You have come home to a rough time,
Eric, and to an over-harassed father.'

The more harassed the father, the more
reason that he should have a child to help
him,' said Erica, sitting down On the arm of his
chair, and putting back the masses of white hair
"which hung over his forehead.

*0h, child,' he said, with a sigh, ' if I can but
keep a cool head and a broad heart through
the years of struggle before us !'

Years !' exclaimed Erica, dismayed.

'This affair may drag ou almost indefinitely,
and a personal strife is apt to be lowering.'

Yes said Erica, musingly, ' to be libelled
does set one's back up dreadfully, and to be
much praised humbles one to the very dust.'

'What will the Fane-Smiths say to this?
Will they believe it of me ?'

I can't tell,' said Erica, hesitatingly.

'''Uii that's evil deemed is half hanged"'

said Rebuild, bitterly. ' Never was there a
truer saying than that.'

" Law the wind never so fast, it will lown
at the last," ' quoted Erica, smiling. * Equally
true, padre mio.'

Yes, dear,' he said, quietly, ' but not in my
lifetime. However, we must make the best of
it. How about the new house ? When can we
settle in ? I feel a longing for that study with
its twenty-two feet of length for pacing.'

'What are your engagements?' she asked,
taking up a book from the table. * 11th, Newcastle
; 12th, Nottingham ; 13th and 14th, Plymouth.
Let me see, that will bring you home
on Monday the 15th, and will leave us three
clear days to get things straight ; that will do
capitally.'

And you'll be sure to see that the books are
carefully moved,' said Raeburn. ' I can't have
the markers displaced.'

Erica laughed. Her father had a habit of
putting caudle-lighters in his books to mark
places for references, and the appearance of the
book-shelves all bristling with them had long
been a family joke, more especially as, if a

candle-lighter happened to be slanted for its
proper purpose, there was never one to be
found.

I will pack them myself,' she said.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

±

RS

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, Blenheim HOUSE

^^^m^i^m:m,^^^:^

X^'^'W^

mmk

r?^

^-^M

^m^^^u^'

.-<?>*•■

^t^

^>di^i(

m^^^^

^y> ><^^*v^:^>^53S>^*^^^^-'^^

co«.s^>^^

OF THE

U N I VLR5 City

Of ILLINOIS

V.3

The person borrowing this material is responsible
for its renewal or return before
the Latest Date stamped below. You maybe
charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for
each non-returned or lost item.

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be
causes for student disciplinary action. All materials owned by
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of Illinois Criminal
Law and Procedure.

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

^

DEC 2 8 1999

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date. L162

A NOVEL

BY

EDNA Lyell

AUTHOR OF "DONOVAN, ETC

"Men are so made as to resent nothing more impatiently than to be
treated as criminal for opinions-which they deem true"— Spi>^oz.v.
"AVe two are a multitudes'— Ovid.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

^

\/3

T\^E TTVO

CHAPTER I.

^ BRIAN AS Avenger.

A paleness took the poet's cheek ;

Must I drink here ?' he seemed to seek

The lady's will with utterance meek.

Ay, ay,' she said, ' it so must be,'
(And this time she spake cheerfully)
Behoves thee know world's cruelty.'

E. B. Browning.

The trial of Luke Hamburg, on the charge of
having published a blasphemous libel in a
pamphlet entitled ' Bible Miracles came on in
the Court of Queen's Bench early in December.
It excited a great deal of interest. Some people
hoped that the revival of an almost obsolete
law would really help to check the spread of
heterodox views, and praised Mr. Pogson for
VOL. III. B

his energy and religions zeal. These were
chiefly well-meaning folks, not much given to
the study of precedents. Some people of a
more liberal turn read the pamphlet in question,
and were surprised to see that matter quite as
heterodox might be found in many high-class
reviews which lay about on drawing-room
tables, the only difference being that the articles
in the reviews were written in somewhat
ambiguous language by fashionable agnostics,
and that ' Bible Miracles ' was a plain, blunt,
sixpenny tract, avowedly written for the people
by the people's tribune.

This general interest and attention, once
excited, gave rise to the following results : to
an indiscriminate and wholesale condemnation
of' that odious Raeburn who was alway's seeking
notoriety:' to an immense demand for ^ Bible.
Miracles,' which in three months reached its
fiftieth thousand; and to a considerable crowd
in Westminster Hall on the first day of the
trial, to watch the entrance and exit of the
celebrities.

Edda had been all day in the court. She
had written her article for the Daily Review in

pencil during the break for luncheon ; but, as
time wore on, the heated atmosphere of the
place, which was crammed to suffocation, became
intolerable to her. She grew whiter and
whiter, began to hear the voices indistinctly,
and to feel as if her arms did not belong to her.
It would never do to faint in court, and vexed
as she was to leave, she took the first opportunity
of speaking to her father.

I think I must go,' she whispered ; ' I can't
stand this heat.'

Come now, then,' said Raeburn, ' and I can
see you out. This witness has nothing worth
listening to. Take notes for me, Tom. I'll be
back directly.'

They had only just passed the door leading
into Westminster Hall, however, when Tom
sent a messenger hurrying after them. An
important witness had that moment been called,
and Raeburn, who was, as usual, conducting his
own case, could not possibly miss the evidence.

I can go alone,' said Erica. ' Don't stop.'

But even in his haste, Raeburn, glancing at
the crowd of curious faces, was thoughtful for
his child.

B 2

No,' be said, hurriedly. ' Wait a moment,
and I'll send someone to you.'

She would have been wiser if she had followed
him back into the court ; but, having once
escaped from the intolerable atmosphere, she
was not at all inclined to return to it. She
waited where he had left her, just within Westminster
Hall, at the top of the steps leading
from the entrance to the court. The grandeur
of the place, its magnificent proportions, terminating
in the great, upward sweep of steps,
and the mellow stained window, struck her
more than ever after coming from the crowded
and inconvenient little court within. The
vaulted roof, with its quaintly-carved angels,
was for the most part dim and shadowy, but
here and there a ray of sunshine, slanting in
through the clerestory windows, changed the
sombre tones to a golden splendour. Erica,
very susceptible to all high influences, was
more conscious of the ennobling influence of
light, and space, and beauty than of the curious
eyes which were watching her from below.
But all at once her attention was drawn to
a group of men who stood near her, and her

thoughts were suddenly brought back to the
hard, every-day world, from which for a brief
moment she had escaped. With a quick, apprehensive
glance, she noted that among them
was a certain Sir Algernon Wite, a man who
never lost an opportunity of insulting her
father.

'Did you see the fellow?' said one of the
;group. she came to the door just now.'

'And left his fair daughter to be a spectacle
to men and angels !' said Sir Algernon.

Then followed words so monstrous, so intolerable,
that Erica, accustomed as she was
to discourtesies, broke down altogether. It
was so heartless, so cruelly false, and she was
so perfectly defenceless ! A wave of burning
colour swept over her face. If she could but
Lave gone away — have hidden herself from
those cruel eyes ! But her knees trembled so
fearfully that, had she tried to move, she must
have fallen. Sick and giddy, the flight of steps
looked to her like a precipice. She could only
lean for support against the grey-stone mouldings
of the doorway, while tears, which for
once she could not restrain, rushed to her eyes.

Ob I if Tom or the professor, or some one
would but come to her! Such moments as
those are not measured by earthly time; the
misery seemed to her age-long, though it was
in reality brief enough, for Brian, coming into
Westminster Hall, had actually heard Sir Alger-non's
shameful slander, and pushing his way
through the crowd, was beside her almost
immediately.

The sight of his face checked her tears. It
positively frightened her by its restrained yet
intense passion.

Miss Raeburn,' he said, in a clear, distinct
voice, plainly heard by the group below, * this is
not a fit place for you. Let me take you home.'

He spoke much more formally than was his
wont, yet in his actions he used a sort of authority,
drawing her hand within his arm, leading her
rapidly through the crowd, which opened before
them. For that one bitter-sweet moment she
belonged to him. He was her sole, and therefore
her rightful, protector. A minute more
and they stood in Palace Yard. He hastily
called a hansom.

In the pause she looked up at him, and would

have spoken her thanks ; but something in his
manner checked her. He had treated her so
exactly as if she belonged to him , that to thank
him seemed almost as absurd as it would have
done to thank her father. Then a sudden fear
made her say instead,

Are you coming home V

I will come to see that you are safely back
presently he said, in a voice unlike his own.
But I must see that man first.'

'No, no,' she said, beginning to tremble
again. 'Don't go back. Please, please don't

8-0 !'

I must,' he said, putting her into the hansom.
Then, speaking very gently — ' Don't be
afraid ; I will be with you almost directly.'

He closed the doors, gave the address to the
driver, and turned away.

Erica was conscious of a vague relief as the
fresh winter wind blew upon her. She shut her
eyes, that she might not see the passers-by,
only longing to get away — right away, somewhere
beyond the reach of staring eyes and
cruel tongues. One evening years ago she remembered
coming out of St. James's Hall with

Tom, and having heard a woman in Regent
Street insulted in precisely the same language
that had been used to her to-daj. She remembered
how the shrill, passionate cry had rung
down the street — ' How dare you insult me !'
And remembered , too, how she had wondered
whether perfect innocence would have been
able to give that retort. She knew now that
her surmise had been correct. The insult had
struck her dumb for the time. Even now, as
the words returned to her with a pain intolerable,
her tears rained down. It seemed to her
that for once she could no more help crying
than she could have helped bleeding when cut.

Then once more her thoughts turned to Brian
with a warmth of gratitude which in itself relieved
her. He was a man worth knowing, a
friend worth having. Yet how awful his face
had looked as he came towards her. Only once
in her whole life had she seen such a look on a
man's face. She had seen it in her childhood
on her father's face, when he had first heard of
a shameful libel which affected those nearest
and dearest to him. She had been far too
young to understand the meaning of it, but

she well remembered that silent, consuming
wrath; she remembered running away by herself
with the sort of half fearful delight of a
child's new discovery — ' Now 1 know how men
look when they hill F

All at once, in the light of that old recollection,
the truth flashed upon her. She smiled
through her tears, a soft glow stole over her
face, a warmth found its way to her aching
heart. For at last the love of seven years had
found its way to her !

She felt all in a glad tumult as that perception
came to her. It had, in truth, been an
afternoon of revelations ! She had never until
now in the least understood Brian's character,
never in. the least appreciated him. And as to
dreaming that his friendship had been love from
the very first, it had never occurred to her.

The revelation did not bring her unalloyed
happiness, for there came a sharp pang as she
recollected what he had gone back to do. What
if he should get into trouble on her behalf?
what if he should be hurt? Accustomed always
to fear for her father actual physical injury, her
thoughts at once flew to the same danger for

Brian. But, however sick with anxiety, she
was obliged, on reaching home, to try to copy
out her article, which must be in type and upon
thousands of breakfast-tables by the next morning,
whether her heart ached or not, whether
her life were rough or smooth.

In the meantime, Brian, having watched her
cab drive off, turned back into Westminster
Hall. He could see nothing but the one vision
which filled his brain — the face of the girl he
loved, a lovely, pure face suffused with tears.
He could hear nothing but that intolerable slander
which filled his heart with a burning, raging
indignation. Straight as an arrow, and as if
by instinct, he made his way to the place where
Sir Algernon and three or four companions
were pacing to and fro. He confronted them,
bringing their walk to an enforced pause.

I am here to demand an apology for the
words you spoke just now about Miss Raeburn
he said, speaking in a voice which was none the
less impressive because it trembled slightly, as
with a wrath restrained only by a great
effort.

Sir Algernon, a florid, light-haired man of

about thirty, coolly stared at him for a moment.
Who may you be, sir , who take up the cudgels
so warmly in Miss Raeburn's defence V

A man who will not hear a defenceless girl
insulted,' said Brian, bis voice rising. * Apologise
!'

Defenceless girl !' repeated the other, in a
tone so insufferable that Brian's passion leapt
up like wild-fire.

You vile blackguard !' he cried, ' what you
said was an infernal lie ! and if you don't retract
it this moment, Pll thrash you within an
inch of your life !'

Sir Algernon laughed, and shrugged his
shoulders.

'Pon my life !' he exclaimed, turning to one
of his companions, 'if I'd known that Miss
Auburn '

But the sentence was never ended, for with a
look of fury Brian sprang at him, seized him by
the collar of his coat, and holding him like a
vice with one hand, with the other brought
down his cane upon the slanderer's shoulders
with such energy that the wretch writhed beneath
it.

The onlookers beiu|^ gentlemen, and fully
aware that Sir Algernon deserved all he was
getting, stood by not offering to interfere, perhaps
in their hearts rather sympathising with
the avenger, whose righteous indignation had
about it a manliness that appealed to them.
Presently Sir Algernon ceased to kick, his
struggles grew fainter. Brian let his right
arm pause then, and with his left flung his foe
into the corner as if he had been a mere
chattel.

There!' he exclaimed, 'summons me for
that when you please !' And, handing his card
to one of Sir x\lgernon's companions, he strode
out of the hall.

By the time he reached Guilford Square he was
almost himself again, a little paler than usual,
but outwardly quite calm. He went at once to
No. 16. The Kaeburus had now been settled in
their new quarters for some weeks, and the
house was familiar enough to him ; he went upto
the drawing-room, or as it was usually called
the green-room. The gas was not lighted,
but a little reading-lamp stood upon a table in
one of the windows, and the firelight made the

panelled walls shine here and there, though
the corners and recesses were all in dusky
shadow. Erica had made this the most homelike
room in the house ; it had the most beguiling
easy chairs, it had all Mr. Woodward's
best pictures, it had fascinating little tables,
and a tempting set of books. There was something
in the sight of the familiar room Which
made Brian's wrath flame up once more. Erica's
guileless life seemed to rise before him — the
years of patient study, the beautiful filial love,
the pathetic endeavour to restrain her child-like
impatience of conventionalities, lest scandal-mongers
should have even a shadow of excuse
for slandering Luke Raeburn's daughter. The
brutality of the insult struck him more than
ever. Erica, glancing up from her writing-table,
saw that his face again bore that look of intolerable
pain which had so greatly startled her in
Westminster Hall.

She had more than half dreaded his arrival,
had been wondering how they should meet
after the strange revelation of the afternoon,
had been thinking of the most trite and
commonplace remark with which she might

greet him. But when it actually came to the
point she could not say a word, only looked up
at him with eyes full of anxious questioning.

It is all right,' he said, answering the mute
question, a great jo^^ thrilling him as he saw
that she had been anxious about him. ' You
should not have been afraid.'

I couldn't help it,' she said, colouring, ' he is
such a hateful man ! a man who might do anything
! Tell me what happened.'

I gave him a thrashing which he'll not soon
forget,' said Brian. 'but don't let us speak of
him any more.'

Perhaps he'll summons you !' said Erica.

He won't dare to. He knows that he deserved
it. What are you writing? you ought
to be resting.'

Only copying out my article. The boy will
be here before long.'

I am your doctor,' he said, feeling her pulse,
and again assuming his authoritative manner ;
'I shall order you to rest on your couch at once.
1 will copy this for you. What is it on V

Cremation,' said Erica, smiling a little. ' A
nice funereal subject for a dreary day ! Generally,

if I'm in wild spirits, Mr. Bircham sends
me the very gloomiest subject to write on, and,
if I'm particularly blue, he asks for a bright,
lively article.'

Oh ! he tells you what to write on V
*Yes; did you think I had the luxury of
choosing for myself? Every day, about eleven
o'clock, a small boy brings me my fate on a slip
of paper. Let me dictate this to you. I'm sure
you can't read that pencilled scribble.'

Yes, I can,' said Brian. ' You go and rest.'
She obeyed him, thankful enough to have a
moment's pause in which to think out the questions
that came crowding into her mind. She
hardly dared to think what Brian might be to
her, for just now she needed him so sorely as
friend and adviser, that to admit that other perception,
which made her feel shy and constrained
with him, would have left her still in her
isolation. After all, he was a seven years'
friend, no mere acquaintance, but an actual
friend to whom she was her unreserved and
perfectly natural self.

'Brian,' she said, presently, when he had
finished her copying, 'you don't think I'm

boiiDcI to tell m}^ father about this afternoon,
do you V

A burning, painful blush the sort of blush
that she never ought to have known, never
could have known but for that shameful slander,
spread over her face and neck as she spoke.

Perhaps not said Brian, ' since the man has
been properly punished

I think — I hope it need never get round to
him in any other way,' said Erica. ' He would
be so fearfully angry, and just now scarcely a
day passes without bringing him some fresh
worry.'

When will the Pogson affair come on V

Oh ! I don't know. Not just yet, I'm afraid.
Things in the legal world always move at the
rate of a fly in a glue-pot.'

What sort of man is Mr. Pogson V
^ He was in court to-day, a little, sleek, nary
man, with cold, grey eyes. I have
been trying to put myself in his place, and
realise the view he takes of things ; but it is
very, very hard. You don't know what it is
to live in this house and see the awful harm his
intolerance is bringing about.'

In what way did you specially mean V

Oh ! in a thousand ways. It is bringing
Christianity into discredit, it is making them
more bitter against it, and who can wonder ! It
is bringing hundreds of men to atheism, it is
enormously increasing the demand for all my
father's books, and already even in these few
months it has doubled the sale of the Iclol-
Breaker. In old times that would have been
my consolation. Oh ! it is heart-breaking to
see how religious people injure their own
cause ! Surely they might have learnt by this
time that punishment for opinion is never right,
that it brings only bitterness, and misery, and
more error ! How is one to believe that this is
right — that God means all this bigotry and injustice
to go on producing evil V

Surely it will teach the sharp lesson that all
pain teaches,' said Brian. ' We Christians have
broken His order, have lost the true idea of
brotherly love, and from this arises pain and
evil, which at last, when it touches our own
selfish natures, will rouse us, wake us up
sharply, drive us back of necessity to the true
Christ-following. Then persecution and in-vol.

III. C

justice will die. But we are so terribly asleep
that the evil must grow desperate before we become
conscious of it. It seems to me that
bigotry has at least one mortal foe, though.
You are always here ; you must show them by
your life what the Father is —that is being a
Christian !'

1 know,' said Erica, a look of almost
passionate longing dawning in her eyes. ' Oh !
what a thing it is to be crammed full of
faults that hinder one from serving! And
all these worries do try one's temper fearfully !
If they had but a Donovan to live with them
now ! But, as for me, I can't do much, except
love them.'

Brian loved her too truly to speak words of
praise and commendation at such a time.

Is not the love the crux of the whole V he
said, quietly.

I suppose it is,' said Erica, pushing back the
hair from her forehead in the way she
always did when anything perplexed her.
But just at present my life is a sort of fugue
on Browning's line,

Hoar very hard it is to be a Christian !"

Sometimes I can't help laughing to think that
there was a time when I thought the teaching
of Christ unpractical ! Do you mind ringing
the bell for me ; the others will be in directly,
and will be glad of tea after that headachy
place.'

Is there nothing else I can do for you V
asked Brian.

Yes, one more thing, help me to remember
the levers of the second order. It's my physiology
class to-night, and I feel , as Tom would
express it, like a " boiled owl." '

'Let me take the class for you.'

Oh, no, thank you,' she replied, ' I wouldn't
miss it for the world.'

It was not till Brian had left that Erica,
taking up the article on cremation, was struck
by some resemblance in the handwriting. She
must have seen Brian's writing before, but only
this afternoon did she make that fresh discovery.
Crossing the room she took from one of the
book shelves a dark-blue morocco volume, and
compared the writing on the fly-leaf with her
MS.

From another admirer of" Hiawatha." ' There

C 2

could be no doubt that Brian bad written that.
Had he cared for her so long ? Had he indeed
loved her all these years ? She was interrupted
by the maid bringing in the tea.

Mr. Bircham's boy is here, miss, and if you
please can cook speak to you a minute V

Erica put down the Longfellow and rolled up
Cremation.'

'I'm sure she's going to give warning!' she
thought to herself. ' What a day to choose
for it ! That's what I call an anti-climax.'

Her forebodings proved all too true. In a
minute more in walked the cook, with the sort
of conscious dignity of bearing which means —
I am no longer in your service.'

'If you please, miss, I wish to leave this day
month.'

I shall be sorry to lose you,' said Erica ;
what are your reasons for leaving?'

I've not been used, miss, to families as is in
the law-courts. I've been used to the best
West-end private families.'

'I don't see how it can affect you said Erica,
feeling, in spite of her annoyance, much inclined
to laugh.

Indeed, miss, and it do I There's not a
tradesman's boy but has his joke or his word
about Mr. Raebnrn/ said the cook, in an injured
voice. * And last Sunday, when I went to the
minister to show my lines, he said a member
ought to be ashamed to take service with a
atheist, and that I was in an 'ouse of 'ell. Those
was his very words, miss, an 'ouse of 'ell, he
said.'

Then it was exceedingly impertinent of
him,' said Erica, 'for he knew nothing whatever
about it.'

After that there was nothing for it but to accept
the resignation and to begin once more
the weary search for that rara avis, ' A good
plain cook.'

Her interview had only just ended when she
heard the front door open. She listened intently,
but apparently it was only Tom ; he came upstairs
singing a refrain with which just then she
quite agreed : —

L A W,— law,

Rhymes very well with jaw,

If you're fond of litigation,

And sweet procrastination,

Latin and botheration,

I advise you to go to law.'

Hullo !' he exclaimed. ' So you did get
home all right ? I like your way of acting 
! The chieftain sent me tearing out
after you, and when I got there, you had vanished
!'

Brian came up just then said Erica, ' and I
thought it better not to wait. Oh, here comes
father.'

Raeburn entered as she spoke. No one who
saw him would have guessed that he was an
over-worked over-worried man, for his face
was a singularly peaceful one, serene with the
serenity of a strong nature convinced of its
own integrity.

Got some tea for us, Eric?' he asked, throwing
himself back in a chair beside the fire.

Some shade of trouble in her face, invisible to
any eye but that of a parent, made him watch
her intently, while a new hope which made his
heart beat more quickly sprang up within him.
Christians had not shown up well that day ;.
prosecuting and persecuting Christians are the
most repulsive beings on earth ! Did she begin
to feel a flaw in the system she had professed
belief in ? Might she by this injustice come to

realise that she had unconsciously cheated herself
into a belief? If such things might win
her back to him, might bridge over that miserable
gulf between them , then welcome any trouble,
any persecution, welcome even ruin itself !

But had he been able to see into Erica's hearty
he would have learnt that the grief which had
left its traces on her face was the grief of knowing
that such days as these strengthened and
confirmed him in his atheism. Erica was indeed
ever confronted with one of the most baffling of
all baffling mysteries. How was it that a man
of such grand capacities, a man with so many
noble qualities, yet remained in the darkness ?
One day she put that question sadly enough to
Charles Osmond.

Not darkness, child, none of your honest
Secularists who live up to their creed are in
darkness,' he replied. 'However mistakenly,
they do try to promote what they consider the
general good. Were you in such absolute
blackness before last summer V

There was the love of Humanity said
Erica, musingly,

Yes, and what is that but a ray of the light

of life promised to all who, to any extent,
follow Christ ? It is only the absolutely selfish
who are in the black shadow. The honest atheist
is in the penumbra, and in his twilight sees
a little bit of the true sun, though he calls it
Humanity instead of Christ.'

Oh, if the shadows would but go !^ exclaimed
Erica.

'Would!' he said, laughing gently. 'Why,
child, they will, they must !'

But now, I mean ! " Here down," as Mazzini
would have said.'

You were ever an impatient little mortal.'

How can one help being impatient for this
she said, with a quick sigh.

That is what I used to say to myself seven
years ago over you,' he said, smiling. ' But I
learnt that the Father knew best, and that if
we would work with Him we must wait with
Him too. You mustn't waste your strength in
impatience, child, you need every bit of it for
the life before you.'

But patience did not come by nature to a
Raeburn, and Erica did not gain it in a day even
by grace.

CHAPTER II.

FIESOLE.

And yet, because I love thee, I obtain
From that same love this vindicating grace,
To live on still in love, and yet in vain
To bless thee, yet renounce thee to thy face.

E. B. Browning.

Much has been said and written about the
monotony of unalloyed pleasure, and the necessity
of shadows and dark places in life as well
as in pictured landscape. And certainly there
can be but few, in this world of stern realities,
who would dispute the fact that pleasure is
doubled by its contrast with preceding pain.
Perhaps it was the vividness of this contrast
that made Raeburn and Erica enjoy, with a
perfect rapture of enjoyment, a beautiful view
and a beautiful spring day in Italy. Behind
them lay a very sombre past ; they had escaped

for a brief moment from the atmosphere of
strife, from the world of controversy from the
scorching breath of slander, from the baleful influences
of persecution and injustice. Before them
lay the fairest of all the cities of Italy. They
were sitting in the Boboli gardens, and from
the wooded heights looked down upon that
loveliest of Italian valleys.

The silver Arno wound its way between the
green encircling hills; then between the old
houses of Florence, its waters spanned now by
a light suspension-bridge — token of modern
times — now by old brown arches strengthened
and restored, now by the most venerable-looking
of all the bridges, the Ponte Yecchio, with
its double row of little shops. Into the cloudless
blue sky rose the pinnacles of Santa Croce,
the domes of San Spirit, of the Baptistery, of
the Cathedral ; sharply defined in the clear
atmosphere were the airy, light Campanile of
Giotto the more slender brown tower of the
Palazzo Vecchio, the spire of Santa Maria Novella.
Northward, beyond the golden-brown
city, rose the heights of Fiesole, and to the
east the green hills, dotted all over with white

houses, swept away into the unseen distance.

Return had been selected as the English
delegate to attend a certain political gathering-held
that year at Florence. He had at first
hesitated to accept the post, for his work at
horse had enormously increased ; but the long-months
of wearing anxiety had so told upon
him, that his friends had at length persuaded
him to go, fully aware that the only chance of
inducing him to take any rest was to get him
out of the region of work.

Tbe ' Miracles ' trial was at length over, but
Mr. Pogson had not obtained the desire of his
heart, namely, the imprisonment and fining of
Luke Raeburn. The only results of the trial
were the extensive advertisement of the pamphlet
in question, a great increase of bitterness on
each side, and a great waste of money. Erica's
sole consolation lay in the fact that a few of the
more liberal thinkers were beginning to see the
evil, and to agitate for a repeal of the Blasphemy
Laws. As for the action for libel, there
was no chance of its coming on before June,
and in the meantime Mr. Pogson's letter was
obtaining a wider circulation, and perhaps, on

the whole, Luke Raebnrn was just at that time
the best-abused man in all England.

There had been a long silence between the
father and daughter, who understood each
other far too well to need many words at such
a time ; but at length a sudden ejaculation from
Eaeburn made Erica turn her eyes from Fiesole
to the shady walk in the gardens down which
he was looking.

Does any Italian walk at such a pace V he
exclaimed. ' That must surely be Brian Osmond,
or his double in the shape of an English
tourist.'

Oh, impossible !' said Erica, colouring a
little, and looking intently at the pedestrian,
who was still at some little distance.

But it is,' said Raeburn — ' height way of
walking, everything ! My dear Eric, don't tell
me T can't recognise the man who saved ray
life. I should know him a mile off!'

What can have brought him here V said
Erica, a certain joyous tumult in her heart
checked by the dread of evil tidings — a dread
which was but natural to one who had lived
her life.

Come and meet bias,' said Raebarn. ' Ha,
Brian, I recognised you ever so far off, and
couldn't persuade this child of your identity.'

Brian, a little flushed with quick walking,
looked up into Erica's face searchingly, and
was satisfied with what he read there — satisfied
with the soft glow of colour that came to her
cheeks and with the bright look of happiness
that came into her eyes, which, as a rule, were
grave, and when in repose even sad in
expression.

I owe this to a most considerate patient,
who thought fit to be taken ill at Genoa and
to telegraph for me he said, in explanation ;
and being in Italy, I thought I might as well
take my yearly outing now.'

Capital idea !' said Raeburn. you are the
very man we wanted. What with meetings
and interviews, I don't get much peace even
here, and Erica is much in need of an escort
sometimes. How did you find us V

They told me at the hotel that I should
probably find you here, though, if I had known
what a wilderness of a place it is, I should have
been rather hopeless.'

Erica left most of the talking to her father ;
just then she felt no wish to put a single
thought into words. She wanted only to enjoy
the blissful, dream-like happiness, which
was so new, and rare, and wonderful that it
brought with it the feeling that any very
definite thought or word must bring it to an
end. Perfect harmony with your surroundings !
Yes, that was indeed a very true definition of
happiness ; and of late the surroundings had
been so grim and stormy ! She seemed to tread
upon air as they roamed about the lovely walks.
The long, green vistas were to her a veritable
paradise. Her father looked so happy , too, and
had so entirely shaken off his cares, and Brian,
who was usually rather silent, seemed to-day a
perfect fountain of talk.

Since that December day in Westminster
Hall, a great change had come over Erica. Nota
soul besides Brian and herself knew anything
about the scene with Sir Algernon Wite.
Not a word had passed between them since
upon the subject ; but perhaps, because of the
silence, that day was all the more in the
thoughts of each. The revelation of Brian's

love revealed also to Erica much in his character
which had hitherto perplexed her, simply
because she had not seen it in the true light.
There had always been about him a wistfulness
bordering on sadness, which had sometimes
almost angered her. For so little do even intimate
friends know each other, that lives, which
seem all peaceful and full of everything calculated
to bring happiness, are often the ones
which are pressed upon by some grievous trouble
or anxiety unknown to any outsider. If he
had indeed loved her all those seven years, he
must have suffered fearfully. What the suffering
had been, Erica could, from her present
position, understand well enough. The thought
of it touched her inexpressibly, seemed to her,
as indeed it was, the shadow of that Divine Love
which had loved her eternally — had waited for
her through long years — had served her and
shielded her, though she never recognised its
existence, till at length , in one flash of light,
the revelation had come to her, and she had
learnt the glory of Love, the murky gloom of
those past misunderstandings.

Those were wonderful days that they spent

together at Florence, the sort of days that come
but once in a life-time ; for the joy of dawn is
quite distinct from the bright noonday or the
calm evening, distinct, too, from that second
and grander dawn which awaits us in the Unseen
when the night of life is over. Together
they wandered through the long corridors of
the UflSzzi ; together they returned again and
again to the Tribune, or traversed that interminable
passage across the river which leads to
the Pitt Gallery, or roamed about among the
old squares and palaces, which are haunted by
so man' memories. And every day Brian
meant to speak, but could not, because the
peace, and restfulness, and glamour of the
present was so perfect, and perhaps because,
unconsciously, he felt that these were ' halcyon
days.'

On Sunday he made up his mind that he
certainly would speak before the day was over.
He went with Erica to see the old monastery of
San Marco before morning service at the English
church. But, though they were alone together,
he could not bring himself to speak there. They
wandered from cell to cell, looking at those

wonderful frescoes of the Crucifixion, in each of
which Fra Angelico seemed to gain some fresh
thought, some new view of his inexhaustible
subject. And Brian, watching Erica, thought
how that old master would have delighted ia
the pure face and perfect colouring, in the short
auburn hair, which was in itself a halo, but
could not somehow just then draw her thoughts'
away from the frescoes. Together they stood
in the little cells occupied once by Savonarola ;
looked at the strange, stern face which 
chiselled so effectively ; stood by the old
wooden desk where Savonarola had written and
read, saying very little to one another, but each
conscious that the silence was one of perfect
understanding and sympathy. Then came the
service in a hideous church, which yet seemed
beautiful to them, with indifferent singing
which was somehow sweeter to them than the
singing of a trained choir elsewhere.

But, on returning to the hotel, Brian found
that his chances for that day were over, for all
the afternoon Erica had to receive a constant
succession of visitors, who, as she said, turned
her father for the time being into the ' British

VOL. III. D

lion.' In the evening, too, when they walked
in the Casting, they were no longer alone.
Raebnrn went with them, and as they paced
along the broad avenue with the Arno gleaming
through the fresh green of the trees, talking
of the discussions of the past week, he
inadvertently touched the note of pain in an
otherwise cloudless day.

The work is practically over now,' he said.
But T think I must take a day or two to see a
little of Florence. I must be at Salzburg to
meet Hasenbalg by Wednesday week. Can you
be ready to leave here on Wednesday, Eric V

Oh ! yes, father,' she said, without hesitation
or comment, but with something in her voice
which told Brian that she, too, felt a pang of
regret at the thought that their days in that
city of golden dreams were so soon to be ended.

The Monday morning, however, proved so
perfect a day that it dispelled the shadow that
had fallen on them. Raeburn wished to go to
Fiesole, and early in the morning, Brian having
secured a carriage and settled the terms with
the crafty-looking Italian driver, they set, off*
together. The sunny streets looked sunnier

than ever ; the Tornabuooi was as usual lively
and bustling ; the flower-market at the base of
the Palazzo Strozzi was gay with pinks and
carnations and early roses. They drove out of
the city, past innumerable villas, out into the
open country, where the only blot upon the fair
landscape was a funeral train, the coffin borne by
those gruesome beings, the Brothers of the Misericordia,
with their black robes and black face-cloths
pierced only with holes for the eyes.

Is it necessary to make death so repulsive V
said Raeburn. ' Our own black hearses are bad
enough, but upon my word I should be sorry
to be carried to my grave by such grim beings !'

He took off his hat, however, as they passed,
and that not merely out of deference to the
custom of the country, but because of the deep
reverence with which he invariably regarded
the dead — a reverence which in his own country
was marked by the involuntary softening of his
voice when he alluded to the death of others,
the token of a nature which, though strangely
twisted, was in truth deeply reverential.

Then began the long ascent the road, as
usual, being lined with beggars, who import

2

tunately followed the carnage ; while, no sooner
had they reached the village itself, than they
were besieged by at least a dozen women selling
the straw baskets which are the speciality
of Fiesole.

Unco, signor I coco, sigiiorina ! Vary sheep !
vary sheep !' resounded on all sides, each vendor
thrusting her wares forward, so that progress
was impossible.

What a plague this is !' said Raeburn.
They'll never leave you in peace, Erica ; they
are too well used to the soft-hearted signorina
Anglesey

Well, then, I shall leave you to settle them,'^
said Erica, laughing, ' and see if I can't sketch
a little in the amphitheatre. They can't torment
us there, because there is an entrance fee.'
All right ; and I will try this bird's-eye view
of Florence,' said Raeburu, establishing himself
upon the seat which stands on the verge of the
hill looking southward. He was yqyj fond of
making pen-and-ink sketches,, and by his determined,
though perfectly courteous manner,
he at last succeeded in dismissing the basket-women.


Erica and Brian, in the meantime, walked
down the steep little path which leads back to
the village, on their way encountering a second
procession of Brothers bearing a coin. In a
few minutes they had found their way into a
quiet garden, at the remote end of which, far
from the houses of Fiesole, and sheltered on all
sides by the green Appenines, was an old Roman
amphitheatre. Grass and flowers had sprung
up now on the arena where, in olden times, had
been fearful struggles between men and beasts.
Wild roses and honeysuckle drooped over the
grey old building, and in between the great
blocks of stone which formed the tiers of seats
for the spectators, sprang the yellow celandine
and the white star of Bethlehem.

Erica sat down upon one of the stony seats,
and began to sketch the outline of the hills,
and roughly to draw in the foreground the
further side of the amphitheatre and a broken
column which lay in the middle.

Would you mind fetching me some water?'
she said to Brian.

There was a little trickling stream close by,
half hidden by bramble bushes. Brian filled

her glass, and watched her brush as she washed
in the sky.

Is that too blue, do you think V she asked,
glancing up at him with one of her bright looks.

Nothing could be too deep for such a sky as
this,' he replied, half absently. Then, with a
sudden change of tone, ' Erica, do you remember
the first day you spoke to me.'

Under murky London skies very unlike
these,' she said, laughing a little, but nervously.
You mean the day when our umbrellas
collided !'

You mustn't abuse the murky skies,' said
Brian, smiling. ' If the sun had been shining,
the collision would never have occurred. Oh,
Erica! what a lifetime it seems since that day in
Govver Street ! I little thought then that I
should have to wait more than seven years to
tell you of my love, or that at last I should tell
you in a Roman amphitheatre under these blue
skies. Erica, I think you have known it of late.
Have you, my darling ? Have you known how
I loved you V

Yes,' she said, looking down at her sketchbook
with glowing cheeks.

Oh ! if you knew what a paradise of hope
you opened to me that day last December, and
how different life has been ever since ! Those
were grey years, Erica, when I dared not even
hope to gain your love. But lately, darling, I
have hoped. Was I wrong V

No she said, with a little quiver in her
voice.

You will love me T

She looked up at him for a moment in silence,.
a glorious light in her golden brown eyes, her
whole face radiant with joy.

I do love you,' she said, softly.

He drew nearer to her, held both her hands
in his, waiting only for the promise which would
make her, indeed, his own.

Will you be my wife, darling V

But the words had scarcely passed his lips
when a look of anguish swept over Erica's face ;
she snatched away her hands.

Oh ! G od help me !' she cried. ' What have
I done ? I've been living in a dream I It's impossible,
Brian ! Impossible !'

A grey look came over Brian's face.

How impossible V he asked, in a choked voice.

I can't leave home she said, clasping her
hands tightly together. ' I never can leave my
father.'

1 will wait,' said Brian, recovering his voice,
I will wait any time for you — only give me
hope.'

1 can't,' she sobbed. ' I aren't !'

'But you have given it me!' he exclaimed.
-' You have said you loved me I'

I do ! I do !' she cried, passionately. ^ But,
oh, Brian ! have pity on me — don't make me say
it again — I must not think of it — I can never be
your wife.'

Her words were broken with sobs, which she
could not restrain.

My darling,' he said, growing calm and
strong again at the sight of her agitation, and
once more possessing himself of her hand, ' you
have had a great many troubles lately, and I
can quite understand that just now you could
not leave your father. But I will wait till less
troubled times; then surely you will come
to me?'

No,' she said, quickly, as if not daring to
pause, ' it will always be the same ; there never

will be quiet times for us. I can't leave ray
father ! It isn't as if he had other children — I
am the only one, and T must stay.'

Is this, then, to be the end of it all V cried
Brian. ' My darling, you cannot be so cruel
to me ! It cannot be the end — there is no end
to love — and we know that we love each other.
Erica, give me some future to look to — some
hope I'

The terrible pain expressed in every line of
his face wrung her heart.

Oh, wait,' she exclaimed. ^ Give me one
moment to think.'

She buried her face in her hands, shutting
out the sunny Italian landscape, the very
beauty of Which seemed to weaken her powers
of endurance. Truly she had been living
lately in a golden dream, and the waking was
anguish. Oh, if she had but realised before
the meaning of it all, then she would have
hidden her love so that he never would have
guessed it ! She would have been to him the
Erica of a year ago, just a friend and nothing
more ! But now she must give him the worst of
pain, perhaps ruin his whole life I If she might

but give him some promise ! What was the
right? How were love and duty to be reconciled?


As she sat crouched up in her misery, fighting
the hardest battle of her life, the bell in
the campanile of the village church began to
ring. It was twelve o'clock. All through the
land, in remembrance of the hour when the
true meaning of love and sacrifice was revealed
to the human race, there swept now the
music of church-bells, bidding the people to
pause in their work and pray. Many a peasant
raised his thoughts for a moment from
sordid cares or hard labour, and realised that
there was an unseen world. And here in the
Roman amphitheatre, where a conflict more
painful than those physical conflicts of old
time was going on, a soul prayed in agony for
the wisdom to see the right and the strength
to do it.

When at length Erica lifted her face, she
found that Brian was no longer beside her, he
was pacing to and fro in the arena ; the waiting
had grown unbearable to him. She went down
to him, moving neither quickly nor hurriedly.

but at the steady, ' right onward ' pace which
suited her whole aspect.

Brian,' she said, in a low voice, ' do you remember
telling me that day that I must try
to show them what the Father is ? You
must help me now, not hinder. You will help
me just because you do indeed love me !'

You will give me no promise even for the
most distant future?'

1 can't,' she replied, faltering a little as she
saw him turn deadly white. ' If there were any
engagement between us, 1 should have to tell
my father of it, and that would only make our
trouble his and defeat my whole object. Oh,
Brian, forgive me, and just leave me. I can
have given you nothing but pain all these
years. Don't let me spoil your whole life !'

His face caught something of the noble purpose
which made hers shine in spite of the
sadness.

Darling,' he said, quickly, ' I can thank God
for you, though you are never to be mine.
God bless you, Erica.'

There was a moment's pause ; he still kept
her hands in his.

Tell your father I've gone for a walk, over
to those hills — that I shall not be home till
evening.' He felt her hands tremble, and knew
that he only torts-ed her by staying. ' Will
you kiss me once, Erica V he said.

She lifted a pale steadfast face and quivering
lips to his, and after that one long embrace
they parted. When he turned away,
Erica stood quite still for a minute in the arena
listening to his retreating footsteps. Her
heart, which had throbbed painfully, seemed
now only to echo his steps, to beat more faintly
as they grew less audible. At last came silence,
and then she crept up to the place where she
had left her sketch-book and paint-box.

The whole world seemed sliding away — aching
desolation overwhelmed her. Brian's face
with its passion and pain rose before her dry,
burning eyes. Then darkness came, blotting
out the sunshine ; the little stream trickling
into its stony basin seemed to grow into a
roaring cataract, the waters to rush into her
ears with a horrid gurgling ; while the stones
of the amphitheatre seemed to change into
blocks of ice and to freeze her as she lay.

A few minutes later she gasped her way
painful ly back to life. All was very peaceful
now ; the water fell with its soft tinkling sound,
there was a low hum of insects ; beside her stony
pillow grew some stars of Bethlehem, and in
between their delicate white and green she
could see the arena and the tiers of seats opposite,
and out beyond the green encircling hills.
Golden sunshine lighted up the dark pines and
spire-like cypresses; in the distance there was
an olive-garden, its soft , grey-green foliage
touched into silvery brightness.

The beauty of the scene, which in her struggle
had seemed to weaken and unnerve her,
stole now into her heart and comforted her ;
and all the time there rang in her ears the message
that the bells had brought her, — ' Who for
the joy that was set before Him, endured the
cross.'

'Taking a siesta?' said a voice above her.
She looked up and saw her father.

I've rather a headache,' she replied.

'Enough to give you one, my child, to lie
there in the sun without an umbrella,' he said,
putting up his own to shelter her. ' Such a May

noon-day in Italy might give you a snn-stroke.
What was your doctor thinking of to allow
it?'

Brian ? Oh, he has gone over to those
hills ; we are not to wait for him, he wanted a
walk.'

Quite right,' said Raeburn. 'I doubt think he
ought to waste his holiday in Italian cities, he
wants fresh air and exercise after his London
life. Where's your handkerchiefs

He took it to the little stream, put aside the
overhanging bushes, dipped it in the water, and
bringing it back laid it on her burning forehead.


How you spoil me, pad^^e mio,' she said, with
a little laugh that was sadder than tears ; and
as she spoke she slipped down to a lower step
and rested her head on his knee, drawing down
one of his strong hands to shade her eyes. He
talked of his sketch, of his word-skirmish with
the basket-women, of the view from the amphitheatre
; but she did not much hear what he
said, she was looking at the hand that shaded
her eyes. That strong hand which had toiled
for her when she was a helpless baby, the

hand to which she had clung when every other
support had been wrenched away by death, the
hand which she had held in hers when she
thought he was dying, and the children had
sung of ' Life's long day and death's dark
night.'

All at once she drew it down and pressed it
to her lips with a child's loving reverence.
Then she sat up with a sudden return of energy.

There, now let us go home,' she exclaimed.
*My head aches a little still, but we won't let it
spoil our last day but one in Florence. Didn't
we talk of San Miniato for this afternoon V

It was something of a relief to find, on returning,
an invitation to dinner for that evening
which Raeburn could not well refuse. Erica
kept up bravely through the afternoon but
when she was once more alone her physical
powers gave way. She was lying on her bed
sick and faint and weary, and with the peculiarly
desolate feeling which comes to most people
when they are ill in a hotel with all the unheeding
bustle going on around them. There
came a knock at her door.

Estate,' she said, quickly, welcoming any

fresh voice which would divert her mind from
the weary longing for her mother. A sort of
wild hope sprang up within her that some
woman friend would be sent to her, that
Glades Farrant, or old Mrs. Osmond, or her
secularist friend Mrs. MacNaughton, Avhom she
loved best of all, would suddenly find themselves
in Florence and come to her in her need.

There entered a tall, over-worked waiter. He
looked first at her, then at the note in his hand,
spelling out the direction with a puzzled face.

Meet Rabi — Rabi — Rabi — Rabi — an?' he asked,
hesitatingly.

Grazie,' she replied, almost snatching it
from him. The colour rushed to her cheeks as
she saw the writing was Brian's, and the instant
the waiter had closed the door, she tore open
the envelope with trembling hands.

It was a last appeal, written after he had returned
from wandering among the Appenines,
worn out in body, and shaken from the noble
fortitude of the morning. The strong passionate
words woke an answering thrill in Erica's
heart. He asked her to think it all over once
more, he had gone away too hastily. If she

could change her mind, could see any possible
hope for the future, would she write to him ?
If he heard nothing from her, he would understand
what the silence meant. This was in
brief the substance of the letter, but the words
had a passionate, unrestrained intensity which
showed they had been written by a man of
strong nature overwrought by suffering and
excitement.

He was here, in the very hotel ! Might she
not write to him? — might she not send him
some sort of message — write just a word of
indefinite hope which would comfort and relieve
herself as well as him ? ' If I do not hear from
you, I shall understand what your silence
means.' Ah ! but would he understand ? What
had she said this morning to him ? Scarcely
anything — the merest broken bits of sentences
the poorest, coldest confession of love.

Her writing-case lay open on the table beside
the bed, with an unfinished letter to Aunt Jean,
begun before they had started for Fiesole. She
snatched up paper and pen, and, trembling so
much that she could scarcely support herself,
she wrote two brief lines.

VOL. III. E

Darling, I love you, and always must love
you, first and best.'

Then she lay back again exhausted, looking
at the poor little weak words, which would not
contain a thousandth part of the love in her
heart. Yet, though the words were true, would
they perhaps convey a wrong meaning to him ?
Ought she to send them ? On the other hand,
would he indeed understand the silence — the
silence which seemed now intolerable to her?
She folded the note and directed it, the tumult
in her heart growing wilder as she did so.
Once more there raged the battle which she
had fought in the amphitheatre that morning,
and she was not so strong now ; she was weakened
by physical pain, and to endure was far
harder. It seemed to her that her whole life
would be unbearable if she did not send him
that message. And to send it was so fatally
easy; she had merely to ring, and then in a
few minutes the note would be in his hands.

It was a little narrow slip of a room ; all her
life long she could vividly recall it. The single
bed pushed close to the wall, the writing-table
with its gay-patterned cloth, the hanging wardrobe

with glass doors, the walls trellised with
roses, and on the ceiling a painting of some
white swans eternally swimming in an ultramarine
lake. The window, unsheltered, but
veiled by muslin curtains, looked out upon the
Arno ; from her bed she could see the lights on
the further bank. On the wall close beside her
was a little round wooden projection. If it
had been a rattlesnake, she could not have
gazed at it more fixedly. Then she looked at
the printed card above, and the words written
in French and English, German and Italian,
seemed to fall mechanically on her brain, though
burning thoughts seethed there too.

Ring once for hot water, twice for the
chambermaid, three times for the waiter.'

Merely to touch that ivory knob, and then
by the lightest pressure of the finger-tips a
whole world of love and happiness and rest
might open for her, and life would be changed
for ever.

Again and again she was on the point of
yielding, but each time she resisted,, and each
resistance made her stronger. At length, with
a fearful effort, she turned her face away and

e2

buried it in the pillow, clinging with all her
might to the iron-work of the bed.

For at least an hour — the most frightful hour
of her life — she did not dare to stir. At last
when her hands were stiff and sore with that
rigid grasping, when it seemed as if her heart
had been wrenched out of her, and had left
nothing but an aching void, she sat up and
tore both Brings note and her reply into a
thousand pieces ; then, in a weary, lifeless way,
made her preparations for the night.

But sleep was impossible. The struggle was
over for ever, but the pain was but just begun,
and she was still a young girl, with the best
part of life stretching out before her. She did
not toss about restlessly, but lay very still, just
enduring her misery, while all the e very-day
sounds came to her from without — laughter in
the next room from two talkative American
girls, doors opening and shutting, boots thrown
down, electric bells rung, presently her father's
step and voice.

Has Miss Raeburn been up longs'

Sairtenlee, sir, yes,' replied the English-speaking
waiter. ' The signorina sleeps, doubtless.'

Then came a pause, and in another minute
her father's door was closed and locked.

Noisy parties of men shouting out some
chorus sung at one of the theatres passed along
the Lung' Arno, and twanging mandolins wandered
up and down in the moonlight. The sound
of that harshest and most jarring of all musical
instruments was ever after hateful to her. She
could not hear one played without a shudder.

Slowly and wearily the night wore on. Sometimes
she stole to the window and looked out
on the sleeping city, on the peaceful Arno which
was bathed in silvery moonlight, and on the old,
irregular houses, thinking what struggles and
agonies this place had witnessed in past times,
and realising what an infinitesimal bit of the
world's sufferings she was called to bear.
Sometimes she lit a candle and read, sometimes
prayed, but for the most part just lay still,
silently enduring, learning, though she did not
think it, the true meaning of pain.

Somewhat later than usual, she joined her
father the next morning in the coffee-room.

Brian tells me he is off to-day,' was Raeburn's
greeting. 'It seems that he must see that

patient at Genoa again, and he wants to get a
clear fortnight in Switzerland.'

Is it not rather early for Switzerland T

I should have thought so ; but he knows
more about it than I do. He has written to try
to persuade your friend, Mr. Farrant, to join
him in the Whitsuntide recess.'

Oh, I am glad of that,' said Erica, greatly
relieved.

Directly after breakfast she went out with
her father, going first of all to French's bank,
where Raeburn had to change a circular note.

It is upstairs,' he said as they reached the
house. ' Don't you trouble to come up ; you'll
have stairs enough presently at the Uffizzi.'

Very well she replied, ' I will wait for you
here.'

She stood in the doorway, looking out
thoughtfully at the busy Tornabuooi and its
gay shops ; but in a minute a step she knew
sounded on the staircase, and the colour rushed
to her cheeks.

I have just said good-bye to your father,'
said Brian. ' I am leaving Florence this morning.
You must forgive me for having written

last night. I ought not to have done it, and I
understood your silence

He spoke calmly, in the repressed voice of a
man who holds ' passion in a leash Erica was
thankful to have the last sight of him thus —
calm and strong and self-restrained. It was a
nobler side of love than that which had inspired
his letter — nobler because freer from thought of
self.

^ I am so glad you will have Donovan,' she
said. ' Good-bye.'

He took her hand in his, pressed it, and
turned away without a word.

CHAPTER III.

RIGHT Outward.'

Therefore my Hope arose
From out her swound and gazed upon Thy face,
And, meeting there that soft subduing look

Which Peter's spirit shook,
Sank downward in a rapture to embrace
Thy pierced hands and feet with kisses close,
And prayed Thee to assist her evermore

To ' reach the things before.'

E. B. Browning.

I'm really thankful it is the last time I shall
have to get this abominable paper money,' said
Raeburn, coming down the stairs. ' Just count
these twos and fives for me, dear ; fifteen of
each there should be.'

At that moment Brian had just passed the
tall, white column, disappearing into the street
which leads to the Borgo Agni Santa. Erica
turned to begin her new chapter of life heavily

handicapped in the race, for once more that
deadly faintness crept over her, a numbing,
stifling pressure, as if Pain in physical form had
seized her heart in his cold clasp. But with all
her strength she fought against it forcing herself
to count the hateful little bits of paper, and
thankful that her father was too much taken up
with the arrangement of his purse to notice her.

'I'm glad we happened to meet Brian,' he remarked
; ' he goes by an earlier train than 1
thought. Now, little son Eric, where shall wee
go ? We'll have a day of unmitigated pleasure
and throw care to the winds. I'll even forswear
Vieusseux; there won't be much news to-days

Let us take the Pitt Palace first,' said Erica,
knowing that the fresh air and the walk would
be the only chance for her.

She walked very quickly, with the feeling
that, if she were still for a single moment, she
should fall down. And, luckily, Raeburn thought
her paleness accounted for by yesterday's headache
and the wakeful night, and never suspected
the true state of the case. On they went past
fascinating marble shops and jewellers' windows
filled with Florentine mosaics, across the Ponte

Vecchio, down a shady street, and into the
rongh-hewnj grim-looking palace. It was to
Erica like a dream of pain ; the surroundings
were so lovely, the sunshine so perfect, and her
own heart so sore.

But within that old palace she found the true
cure for sore hearts. She remembered having
looked with Brian at an ' Ecce Homo,' by Carlo
Dolce, and thought she would like to see it
again. It was not a picture her father would
have cared for, and she left him looking at
Raphael's ' Three Ages of Man,' and went by
herself into the little room which is called the
Hall of Ulysses.' The picture was a small one,
and had what are considered the usual faults of
the painter, but it "was the first ' Ecce Homo '
that Erica had ever cared for; and, whatever
the shortcomings of the execution, the ideal
was a most beautiful one. The traces of physical
pain were not brought into undue prominence,
appearing not at all in the face, which
was full of unutterable calm and dignity. The
deep, brown eyes had the strange power which
belongs to some pictures, they followed you allover
the room — there was no escaping them.

They were tauntingly sad eyes, eyes in which
there lurked grief unspeakable; not the grief
which attends bodily pain, but the grief which
grieves for others — the. grief which grieves for
humanity, for its thousand ills and ignorances,
its doubts and denials, its sins and sufferings.
There was no bitterness in it, no restlessness,
no questioning. It was the grief of a noble,
strong man whose heart is torn by the thought
of the sin and misery of his brothers, but who
knows that the Father can, and will, turn the
evil into the means of glorious gain.

As Erica looked, the true meaning of pain
seemed to flash upon her. Dimly she had
apprehended it in the days of her atheism, had
clung to the hope that the pain of the few
brought the gain of the many ; but now the
hope became certainty, the faith became open
vision. For was it not all here, written in
clearest characters, in the life of the Ideal Man ?
And is not what was true for him, true for us,
too 1 We talk much about * Christ our example,'
and struggle painfully along the uphill road of
the ' Imitation of Christ,' meaning by that too
often a vague endeavour to be * good,' to be

patient, to be not entirely absorbed in the
things which are seen. But when pain comes,
when the immense misery and evil in the world
are borne in upon us, we too often stumble, or
fail utterly, just because we do not understand
our sonship ; because we forget that Christians
must be sin-bearers like their Master, pain-bearers
like their Master ; because we will let
ourselves be blinded by the mystery of evil and
the mystery of pain, instead of fixing our eyes,
as Christ did, on the joy that those mysteries
are sure to bring. ' Lo, I come to do Thy will.'
And what is the will of even a good earthly
father but the best possible for all his children ?

Erica saw for the first time that no pain she
had ever suffered had been a wasted thing, nor
had it merely taught her personally some needful
lesson ; it had been rather her allotted
service, her share of pain-bearing, sin-bearing,
Christ following ; her opportunity of doing the
Will ' — not self-chosen, but given to her as one
of the best of gifts by the Father himself.

Oh, what a little fool I've been !' she thought
to herself, with the strange pang of joy which
comes when we make some discovery which

sweetens the whole of life, and which seems so
self-evident that we can but wonder and wonder
at onr dense stupidity in not seeing it
sooner. ' I've been grudging Brian what God
sees he most wants I I've been groaning over
the libels and injustices which seem to bring so
much pain and evil wheu^ after all, they will
be, in the long run, the very things to show
people the need of tolerance, and to establish
freedom of speech''

Even this pain of renunciation seemed to
gain a new meaning for her, though she could
not in the least fathom it ; even the unspeakable
grief of feeling that her father was devoting
much of his life to the propagation of
error, lost its bitterness, though it retained its
depth. For with the true realisation of Fatherhood
and Sonship impatience and bitterness die,
and in their place rises the peace which ' passeth
understanding.'

We will have a day of unmitigated pleasure,'
her father had said to her, and the words
had at the time been like a sharp stab. But,
after all, might not this pain, this unseen and
dimly understood work for humanity, be in

very truth the truest pleasure? What artist is
there who would not gratefully receive from
the Master an order to attempt the loftiest of
subjects'? What poet is there whose heart
would not bound when he knew he was called
to write on the noblest of themes ? All the
struggles, all the weary days of failure, all the
misery of conscious incompleteness, all the
agony of soul — these were but means to the
end, and so inseparably bound up with the
end that they were no more evil but good, their
darkness overlooked with the light of the work
achieved.

Raeburu, coming into the room, saw what
she was looking at, and turned away. Little ashe
could understand her thoughts, he was not
the sort of man to wound unnecessarily one
Who differed from him. His words in public
were sharp and uncompromising : in debate he
did not much care how he hit as long as he
hit hard. But, apart from the excitement of
such sword-play, he was, when convinced that
his hearers were honest Christians, genuinely
sorry to give them pain.

Erica found him looking at a Sevres china

vase in which he could not by any possibility
have been interested.

I feel Mr. Ruskin's wrathful eye upon me,'
she said, laughing, ' Now, after spending all
that time before a Carlo Dolce, we must really
go to the Uffizzi and look at Botticelli's ''' Fortitude."
Brian and I nearly quarrelled over it
the last time we were there.'

So they wandered away together through the
long galleries, Erica pointing out her favourite
pictures and hearing his opinion about them.
And indeed Raeburn was as good a companion
as could be wished for in a picture-gallery. The
intense development of the critical faculty,
which had really been the bane of his existence,
came here to his aid, for he had a quick eye for
all that was beautiful both in art and nature, and
wonderfully keen powers of observation. The
refreshment, too, of leaving for a moment his
life of excessive toil was great ; Erica hoped
that he really did find the day, for once, ' unmitigated
pleasure.'

They went to Santa Croce, they walked
through the crowded market, they had a merry
dispute about ascending the Campanile.

Just this one you really must let me try
said Erica, 'they say it is very easy.'

'To people without spines, perhaps it may be,'
said Raeburn.

But think of the view from the top,' said
Erica, ' and it really won't hurt me. Now,
jyadre mio, I'm sure it's for the greatest happiness
of the greatest number that I should go up !'

It's the old story,' said Raeburn smiling,

" Vain is the hope, by any force or skill,
To stem the current of a woman's will ;
For if she will, she will, you may depend on't,
And if she won't, she won't, and there's an end on't."

However, since this is probably the last time
in our lives that we shall have the chance, perhaps,
I'll not do the tyrannical father.'

They had soon climbed the steep staircase,
and were quite rewarded by the magnificent
view from the top, a grand panorama of city
and river and green Appenines. Erica looked
northward to Fiesole with a fast-throbbing
heart. Yet it seemed as if half a lifetime lay
between the passion-tossed yesterday and the
sad yet peaceful present. Nor was the feeling
a mere delusion ; she had indeed in those brief
hours lived years of the spirit life.

She did not stay long at that northern parapet
; thoughts of her own life or even of Brian's
Avonld not do just then. She had to think of
her father, to devote herself to him. And somehow,
though her heart was sad, yet her happiness
was real, as they tried together to make
out the various buildings ; and her talk was unrestrained,
and even her laughter natural, not
forced ; for it is possible to those who really
love to throw themselves altogether into the
life of another, and to lay aside all thought of
self

Once or twice that day she half feared that
her father must guess all that had happened.
He was so very careful of her, so considerate ;
and for Raeburn to be more considerate meant
a great deal, for in private he was always the
most gentle man imaginable. His opponents,
who often regarded him as a sort of ' fiend inhuman
shape,' were strangely mistaken in their
estimate of his character. When treated with
discourtesy or unfairness in public, it was true
that he hit back again, and hit hard ; and, since
even in the nineteenth century we are so foolish
as to use these weapons against the express

III. F

sion of opinions we deem mischievous Raeburn
had had a great deal of practice in this retaliation.
He was a very proud and a very sensitive
man, not blessed with overmuch patience.
But he held his opinions honestly, and had
suffered much for them ; he had a real love for
humanity, and an almost passionate desire to
better his generation. To such a man it was
no light thing to be deemed everything that is
vile ; like poor Shelley, he found it exceedingly
bitter to let ' murderers and traitors take precedence
of him in public opinion.' People in
general took into account all his harsh utterances
(and some of them were very harsh), but
they rarely thought anything about the provocation
received, the excessively hard life that
this man had Kved, the gross personal insults
^vhich he had had to put up with, the galling
injustice he had had to fight against. Upon
this side of the question they just turned their
backs, pooh-poohed it, or, when it was forced
upon their notice, said (unanswerable argument!)
*It couldn't be so !'

When, as they where making the descent,
Erica found the strong hand stretched out for

hers the moment the way grew dark, when she
was warned of the slightest difficulty by, 'Take
care, little one, a narrow step,' or, ' 'Tis rather
broken here,' she almost trembled to think that,
in spite of all her efforts, he might have learnt
how matters really were. But by-and-by his
serenity re-assured her.; had he thought that
she was in trouble, his face would not have
been so cloudless.

And in truth Raeburn, spite of his keen observation,
never thought for a moment of the
true state of the case. He was a very literal,
unimaginative man, and, having once learnt to
regard Brian as an old family friend and as his
doctor, he never dreamed of regarding him in
the light of his daughter's lover. Also, as is
not unfrequently the case when a man has only
one child, he never could take-in the fact that
she was quite grown up. Even when he read
her articles in the Daily Review or discussed the
most weighty topics with her , she was always
little son Eric,' or his ' little one.' And Erica's
unquenchable high spirits served to keep up
the delusion. She would as often as not end a
conversation on Darwinism by a romp with

Friskarina. or write a very thoughtful article
on Scrutiny de Liste, and then spring tip from her
desk and play like any child with an india-rubber
ball nominally kept for children visitors.
She managed to tide over those days bravely
and even cheerfully for her father's sake. It
was easier when they had left Florence, with
its over-bright and over-sad memories. Peaceful
old Verona was more in accordance with her
state of mind ; and from thence they went to
Trenton and over the Brenner, passing Botzen
and Brien in their lovely valley, gaining a
brief glimpse of the spire-like Dolomites, and
gradually ascending the pass, leaving the river
and its yellow reeds, and passing through the
rich pasture-land, where the fields were bright
with buttercups and daisies — gold and silver of
the people's property, as Raeburn called them.
Then on once more between crimson and purple
porphyry mountains, nearer and nearer to the
snowy mountain peaks; and at last, as the day
drew to an end, they descended again, and saw
down below them, in the loveliest of valleys, a
little town, its white houses suffused by a crimson
sunset glow.

'Innsbruck, madam, Innsbruck!' said a fat
old Tyrolese man Who had been showing them
all the beauties of his beloved country throughout
the journey.

And, though nothing could ever again have
for Erica the sweet glamour of an Italian city,
yet she was glad now to have seen the last of
that sunny land, and welcomed the homely
little place with its matter-of-fact houses and
prosperous comfort. She felt, somehow, that it
would be easier to endure now that she was
fairly out of Italy.

The day after their arrival in Innsbruck was
Sunday. There was no English service as yet,
for the season had not begun, but Erica went
to the little Lutheran church, and Raeburn, who
had never been to a Lutheran service, went
with her, for the sake of studying the congregation,
the preacher, and the doctrine. Also,
perhaps, because he did not want her to feel
lonely in a foreign place.

All her life long Erica remembered that Sunday.
The peaceful little church with its high
pews, where they sat to sing and stood to pray,
the homely German pastor with his plain yet

forcible sermon on ' Das Debet,' the restful feeling
of unity which so infinitely outweighed all
the trifling differences, and the comfort of the
sweet old German charles. The words of one
of them lingered always in her memory.

Fiihlt Seel und Leib ein WoM ergehen
So treib es mich sum Dank dafiir ;
Last du mich dine Were selden.
So sey mein Irishmen steps von dir ;
Und find ici in der Welt night Ruh,
So stein mein Seine Himmel zu.'

After the service was ended, they wandered
out into the public garden where birds were
singing round the statue of Walter von der
Vogelveide, and a sparrow, to Erica's great
delight, perched on his very shoulder. Then
they left the town altogether and roamed out
into the open country, crossing the river by a
long and curiously constructed plank bridge,
and sauntering along the valley beneath the
snowy mountains, the river flowing smoothly
onward, the birds singing, and a paradise of
flowers on every side. It was quite the hottest
day they had had, and they were not sorry to
rest in the first shady place they came to.

This is the right way to take pleasure said

Eaebui'D, enjoying as only an ardent lover of
Nature can enjoy a mountain view. 'Brief
snatches in between hard work. More than
that is hardly admissible in such times as ours.'
His words seemed to them prophetic later on
for their pleasure was destined to be even
briefer than they had anticipated. The hotel
at which they were staying was being painted.
Erica had a room on the second floor, but Auburn
had been put at the top of the house.
They had just returned from a long drive, and
were quietly sitting in Erica room writing
letters, expecting every moment that the gong
would sound for the six o'clock tahle-cVhote,
wien a sound of many voices outside made
Eaeburn look up. He went to the window.

Hullo ! a fire-engine !' he exclaimed.

Erica hastily joined him ; a crowd was gathering
beneath the window, shouting, weaving
gesticulating.

Why, they are pointing up here !' cried
Erica. ' The fire must be here !'

She rushed across the room, and opened the
door ; the whole place was in an uproar , people
rushing to and fro, cries of ' Fever ! Eeuer !' a

waiter with scared face hurrying from room to
room with the announcement, in broken English,
The hotel is on fire !' or, sometimes, in his
haste and confusion, ^ The fire is on hotel !^ Fora
moment Erica's heart stood still ; the very
vagueness of the terror, the uncertainty as to
the extent of the danger or the possibility of
escape, was paralysing. Then with the natural
instinct of a book-lover she hastily picked up
two or three volumes from the table, and
begged her father to come. He made her put
on her hat and cloak, and shouldering her
portmanteau, led the way through the corridors
and down the staircase, steadily forcing a
passage through the confused and terrified people,
and never pausing for an instant, not even
asking the whereabouts of the fire, till he had
got Erica safely out into the little plats, and had
set down her portmanteau under one of the
trees.

They looked up then and saw that the whole
of the roof and the attics of the hotel were
blazing. Raeburn's room was immediately below
and was in great danger. A sudden
thought seemed to occur to him, a look of dismay

crossed his face, he felt hurriedly in his
pocket.

Where did I change my coat Erica V he
asked.

Yon went np to your room to change it,
just before the drive,' she replied.

Then, by all that's unlucky Tve left in it
those papers for Hasenbalg ! Wait here ; I'll be
back in a minute.'

He hurried off, looking more anxious than
Erica had ever seen him look before. The
papers which he had been asked to deliver to
Herr Hasenbalg in no way concerned him, but
they had been entrusted to his care, and were
therefore, of course, more to be considered than,
the most valuable private property. Much,
hindered by the crowd and by the fire-engine
itself, which had been moved into the entrance-hall,
he at length succeeded in fighting his way
past an unceasing procession of furniture which
was being rescued from the flames, and pushing
his way up the stairs had almost gained his
room, when a pitiful cry reached his ears. It
was impossible to a man of Raeburn's nature
not to turn aside : the political despatches

might be very important, but a deserted child
in a burning house outweighed all other considerations.
He threw open the door of the
room whence the cry had come ; the scaffolding
outside had caught fire and the flames were
darting in at the window. Sitting up in a
little wooden cot was a child of two or three
years old, his baby face wild with fright.

Poor bairn !^ exclaimed Raeburn, taking
him in his strong arms. ' Have they forgotten
you V

The child was German and did not understand
a word, but it knew in a moment that this
man, so like a fairy-tale giant, was a rescuer.

Outer Rise /' it sobbed, appealingly.

The ' good giant ' snatched a blanket from
the cot, rolled it round the shivering little bit
of humanity, and carried him down into the
plats.

Keep this bairns till his belongings claim
him,' he said, putting his charge into Erica's
arms. And then he hurried back again, once
more ran the gauntlet of the descending wardrobes
and bedsteads, and at last reached his
room. It was bare of all furniture ; the lighter

things — his coat among them — had been thrown
out of the window, the more solid things had
been carried downstairs. He stood there baffled
and for once in his life bewildered.

Half-choked with the smoke, he crossed the
room and looked out of the Window, the hot
breath of the flames from the scaffolding scorching
his face. But looking through that frame
of fire, he saw that a cordon had been drawn
round the indiscriminate piles of rescued property,
that the military had been called out, and
that the most perfect order prevailed. There
was still a chance that he might recover the
lost papers ! Then, as there was no knowing
that the roof would not fall in and crush him,
he made the best of his way down again among
the still flowing stream of furniture.

An .immense crowd had gathered in the square
outside ; the awe-struck murmurs and exclamations
sounded like the roar of distant thunder,
and the shouts of ' Masser ! Masser !' alternated
with the winding of bugles, as the soldiers
moved now in one direction, now in another
their bright uniforms and the shining helmets
of the fire-brigade men flashing hither and

thither among the dark mass of spectators.
Overhead the flames raged, while the "wind
blew down bits of burning tinder upon the crowd.
Erica, wedged in among the friendly Tyrolese
people, watched anxiously for her father, not quite
able to believe his assurance that there was no
danger. When at length she saw the tall commanding
figure emerge from the burning hotel,
the white head towering over the crowd,
her heart gave a great bound of relief. But
she saw in a moment that he had been unsuccessful.


It must have been thrown out of the window,'
he said , elbowing his way up to her.
The room was absolutely bare, carpet and all
gone, nothing to be found but these valuables,'
and with a smile, he held up the last number of
the Idol-breaker, and a tooth-brush.

They are taking great care of the things,'
said Erica. ' Perhaps we shall find it by-and-by.'
We must find it,' said Raeburn, his lips
forming into the curve of resoluteness which
they were wont to assume when any difficulty
arose to be grappled with. ^ What has become
of the bairn V

A nurse came up and claimed it, and was
overwhelmingly grateful to you for your rescue.
She had put the child to bed early and had
gone for a walk in the Gardens. Oh, look, how
the fire is spreading !'

That scaffolding is terribly against saving
it, and the wind is high, too,' said Raeburo,
scanning the place all over with his keen eyes.
Then, as an idea seemed to strike him, he suddenly
hurried forward once more, and Erica
saw him speaking to two fire-brigade men. In
another minute the soldiers motioned the crowd
further back, Raeburn rejoined Erica, and, picking
up her portmanteau took her across the
road to the steps of a neighbouring hotel.
I've suggested that they should cut down the
scaffolding,' he said ; * it is the only chance of
saving the place.'

The whole of the woodwork was now on
fire ; to cut it down was a somewhat dangerous
task, but the men worked gallantly, and in a
few minutes the huge blazing frame with its
poles and cross-poles, ladders and platforms,
swayed, quivered, then fell forward with a
crash into the garden beyond.

Raeburu had, as usual, attracted to himself
the person most worth talking to in the crowd,
a shrewd-looking inhabitant of Innsbruck, spectacled
and somewhat sallow, but with a face
which was full of intellect. He learnt that, although
no one could speak positively as to the
origin of the fire, it was more than probable
that it had been no mere accident. The very
Sunday before, at exactly the same hour, a
large factory had been entirely destroyed by
fire, and it needed no very deep thinker to discover
that a Sunday evening, when everyone
would be out of doors keeping holiday, and the
fire-brigade men scattered and hard to summon,
was the very time for incendiarism. They
learnt much from the shrewd citizen about the
general condition of the place, which seemed
outwardly too peaceful and prosperous for such
wild and senseless outbreaks.

If, as seems probable, this is the act of some
crazy socialist,, he has unwittingly done harm
to the cause of reform in general,' said Raeburn
to Erica, when the informant had passed on.
Those papers for Hasenbalg were important
ones, and, if laid hold of by unfriendly hands,

might do untold harm. Socialism is the most
foolish system on earth. Inevitably it turns to
this sort of violence when the uneducated have
seized on its main idea.'

After all, I believe they will save the house,'
said Erica. ' Just look at those men on the
top, how splendidly they are working !'

It was, in truth, a grand, though a very horrible
sight to see the dark forms toiling away,
hewing down the burning rafters with an absolute
disregard to their personal safety. These
were' not firemen, but volunteers — chimney-sweeps,
as one of the crowd informed Raeburn
and it was in the main owing to their exertions
that the fire was at length extinguished.

After the excitement Alas over they went
into the neighbouring hotel, where there was
some difficulty in obtaining rooms, as all the
burnt-out people had taken refuge there. However,
the utmost hospitality and friendliness
prevailed, and even hungry Englishmen, cheated
of their dinner, were patient for once, while
the over-taxed waiters hurried to and fro, preparing
for the second and quite unexpected
tahle-dliote. Everyone had something to tell

either of his escape or his losses. One lady
had seen her nightgown thrown out of the
window, and had managed adroitly to catch it ;
some one else on rushing up to find his purse
had been deluged by the fire-engine ; and Raeburn's
story of the little German boy excited
great interest. The visitors were inclined to
make a hero of him. Once, when he had left
the room, Erica heard a discussion about him
with no little amusement.

Who is the very tall, white-haired man V
'The one who saved the child ? I believe he
must be the Bishop of Steneborough ; he is travelling
in the Tyrol, I know, and I'm sure that
man is a somebody. So much dignity and such
power over everybody ! didn't you see the way
the captain of the fire-brigade deferred to
him V

Well, now I think of it,' replied the other,
he has an earnest, devotional sort of face ;
perhaps you're right. I'll speak to him when
he comes back. Ah !' in a lower voice, ' there
he is ! and— confound it ! he's got no gaiters !
Good-bye to my visions of life-long friendship
and a comfortable living for Dick !'

In spite of his anxiety about the lost packet,,
Raeburu laughed heartily over Erica's account
of this conversation. He had obtained leave to
search the deserted hotel, and a little before
ten o'clock they made their way across the
square, over planks and charred rafters, broken
glass, and pools of Vater which were hard ta
steer through in the darkness. The fire was
now quite out, and they were beginning ta
move the furniture in again, but the place had
been entirely dismantled, and looked eerie and
forlorn. On the staircase was a decapitated
statue, and broken and crushed plants were
strewn about. Erica's room was perfectly bare
of furniture , nor could she find any of the things
she wanted. The pen with which she had been
writing lay on the floor, and also a Japanese
fan soaked with water, but neither of these
were very serviceable articles to a person bereft
of every toilet requisite.

I shall have to lie down to-night like a dog,
and get up in the morning, and shake myself,'
she said, laughing.

And probably a good many people in Innsbruck
were that evening in like case.

VOL. Til. G

Notwithstanding the discomforts, however,
and the past excitement, that was the first
night in which Erica had really slept since the
day at Fiesole, the first night unbroken by
dreams about Brian, undaunted by that blanched,
rigid face, which had stamped its image
indelibly upon her brain in the amphitheatre.
She awoke too, without that almost intolerable
dread of the coming day which had hitherto
made early morning hateful to her. It was
everything to have an actual and practicable
duty ready to hand, everything to have a busy
present which would crowd out past and future,
if only for a few hours. Also the disaster had
its comic side. Through the thin partition she
could hear distinctly the complaints of the*peo-
ple in the next room.

How are we to get on with no soap ? Do
go and see if James has any.'

Then came steps in the passage, and a loud
knock at the opposite door.
James !'
No answer. A furiously loud second knock.

James F

What's the matter ? Another fire V

Have you any soap V
Any what V sleepily.

Any soaps

Apparently James was not the happy possessor
of that necessary of life, for the steps
retreated, and the bell was violently rung.

'what, no soap"' exclaimed Erica, laughing;
'so he died, and she very imprudently
married the barber, etc." '

The chambermaid came to answer the bell.

Send some one to the nearest shop, please,
and get me some soap.'

And a sponge,' said another.

And a brush and comb,' said the first.

Oh ! and some hair-pins,' echoed the other.
Wlf)% distraction ! she doesn't understand a
word I What's the German for soap ? Give
me " Travel Talk." '

It's burnt.'

Well, then, show her the soap-dish ! Brush
your hair with your hands ! This is something
between Dumb Crambo and Mulberry Bush !'

The whole day was not unlike a fatiguing
game of hide-and-seek, and had it not been for
Eaeburn's great anxiety, it would have been

exceedingly amusing. Everything was now
inside the hotel again, but of course in
the wildest confusion. The personal property
of the visitors was placed, as it came to
light, in the hall-porter's little room ; but things
were to be met with in all directions. At tea
o'clock, one of Raeburn's boots was found on
the third storey ; in the evening, its fellow
turned up in the entrance-hall. Distracted
tourists were to be seen in all directions, burrowing
under heaps of clothes, or vainly opening
cupboards and drawers, and the delight of
finding even the most trifling possession was
great. For hours Raeburn and Erica searched
for the lost papers in vain. At length, in the
evening, the coat was found ; but, alas ! the
pocket was empty.

The envelope must have been taken out,'
said Erica. ' Was it directed V

Unfortunately, yes,' said Raeburn. ' But,
after all, there is still a chance that it may have
tumbled out as the coat fell. If so, we may
find it elsewhere. I've great faith in the honesty
of these Innsbruck people, notwithstanding
the craze of some of them that property is theft.

That worthy man yesterday was right, I expect.
I hear that the proprietor had had a
threatening letter not long ago to this effect —

Sein thin under Dreiszig,
Scliuren thun wir leipzig,
Dem Armed that's nights,
Dem Reached schad'ts nights."

That is tolerably unmistakable, T think. I'll
have it in next week's Idols with an article on
the folly of Socialism.'

Judicious offers of reward failed to bring the
papers to light, and Raeburn was so much
vexed about it, and so determined to search
every nook and cranny of the hotel, that it was
hard to get him away even for meals. Erica
could not help feeling that it was hard that the
brief days of relaxation he had allowed himself
should be so entirely spoilt.

'Now, if I were a model daughter, I should
dream where to find the thing,' she said, laughingly,
as she wished him good-night.

She did not dream at all, but she was up as
soon as it was light, searching once more with
minute faithfulness in every part of the hotel.
At length she came to a room piled from floor

to ceiling with linen, blankets, and coverlets.


Have all these been shaken V she asked of
the maid-servant who had been helping her.

Well, not shaken, I think,' owned the servant.
' We were in a hurry, you see ; but they
are all fresh folded.'

It might have slipped into one of them,'
said Erica. * Help me to shake every one of
these, and I will give you two gulden.'

It was hard work, and somewhat hopeless
Avork ; but Erica set about it with all the earnestness
and thoroughness of her Raeburn
nature, and at length came her reward. At
the very bottom of the huge pile they came to
a counterpane, and, as they opened it, out fell
the large, thick envelope directed to Herr
Hasenbalg. With a cry of joy, Erica snatched
it up, pressed double the reward into the hands
of the delighted servant, and flew in search of
her father. She found him groping in a great
heap of miscellaneous goods in the porter's
room.

I've found my razors,' he said, looking up,
and every twopenny-halfpenny thing out of

my travelling-bag ; but the papers, of course,
are nowhere.'

What's your definition of " nowhere " V
asked Erica, laughingly covering his eyes,
while she slipped the envelope into his hand.

His look of relief made her happier than she
had been for days. He stood up quickly, and
turned the envelope over to see that it had not
been tampered with.

This is my definition of a dear, good bairn,*
he said, putting his hand on her head. *" You
have taken a hundredweight off my heart, Eric.
Where did you find it V

She described her search to him.

Well, now, nothing will satisfy me but a
mountain,' said Raeburn. 'Are you too tired?
We could have a good climb before dinner.'

Oh, let us !' she exclaimed. ' 1 have had
such a longing to get nearer the snow.'

Each felt that the holiday had now begun.
They threw care to the winds, and gave themselves
up altogether to the enjoyment of the
loveliest walk they had ever taken. Crossing
the Reuter bridge, they made their way past
little wooden chalets, through groves of oak

where the sunlight came flickering in between
the leaves, through pine-woods whose long
vistas were solemn as cathedral aisles, until
at last they gained the summit of the lower
range of hills, from which was a glorious view
on every hand. Down below lay the little town
which would be for ever memorable to them ;
while above them rose the grand chain of
snowy mountains which still seemed as lofty
and unapproachable as ever, though they themselves
were on high ground. Soft and velvety
and green lay that great upward sweep in the
sunshine, shaded in some places by a dark
patch of pines, or gleaming with a heap of
fallen snow. Here and there some deep rugged
cleft would be filled from top to bottom with
the gleaming whiteness, while above, crowning
the steep and barren height, the snow reigned
supreme, unmelted as yet even by the hot May
sun.

And Erica was, in spite of her sorrow, unfeignedly
happy. She could not be sad when
her father was so thoroughly enjoying himself,
when for once he was altogether removed from
the baleful influences of hatred, malice, and all

uncharitableness. Here— instead of sweeping
denunciations, which invariably drove
him, as they drove even the patient Job,
to an assertion of his own righteousness —
there was the silent yet most real teaching of
Nature; and he must be a sraall-souled man,
indeed, who, in the presence of grand mountain
scenery, cannot forget his own personality,
realising the infinite beauty and the unspeakable
greatness of Nature. Erica's father was unquestionably
a large-souled man, in every sense
of the word a great man ; but the best man in
the world is to a great extent dependent on circumstance,
and the circumstances of Raeburn's
life had been exceptionally hard. Only two
things on earth acted as a check upon the one
great fault which marred an otherwise fine
character. Beauty of scenery made him for the
time being as humble as a child, and the devotion
of his own followers sometimes made him
ask himself whether he were worthy of such
love.

The following day the papers, which had.
caused them so much trouble and anxiety, were
safely delivered to Kerr Hasenbalg at Salzburg ;

and then came one more perfect holiday. In the
months that followed Erica loved just to shut her
eyes and forget a sad or stormy present, to call up
once more the remembrance of that time. To
the minutest details she always remembered it.
The start in the early morning, which had
seemed cloudy and unpromising, the long,
beautiful drive to Berchtesgaden, and on beyond
to the Konigsee. The perfect and unbroken
calm of that loveliest of lakes, so jealously
guarded by its chain of mountains that only
in two places is it possible to effect a landing.
The dark pines and silvery birches clothing the
sides of the mountains ; the grey limestone cliffs
rising steep and sheer from the water, in which
their slim, green skiff glided swiftly on, the
oars, which were more like long, brown spades,
pulled by a man and woman, who took it in
turns to sit and stand : the man with gay tie
and waistband, Tyrolese hat and waving
feather ; the woman wearing a similar hat over
a gaily-embroidered head-dress, ample white
sleeves, a square-cut bodice, and blue plaid
skirt.

Here and there a group of light-green larches

just caught the sunshine, or a little boat coming
in the opposite direction would suddenly glide
round one of the bends in the lake, its oars
splashing a wide line of silvery brightness in
the calm water, in vivid contrast to the dark-blue
prow. Then, as they rounded one of the
abrupt curves, came a glorious view of snow-mountains
— blue shadows below, and above, in
the sunshine, the most dazzling Whiteness,
while close to the water, from the sheer precipice
of grey rock, sprang here and there a
hardy pine.

They landed beside a quaint little church
With cupolas, and had an exquisite walk
through the woods just at the foot of the
mountains , where the wealth of gentians and
other Alpine flowers made Raeburn's felicity
complete.

Presently came the return to the little boat
and a quiet row back to the landing-places
where their carriage awaited them. And then
followed the delightful drive home, past the
river, which tossed its green waters here and
there into snow-like wreaths of foam, over
quaint and shaky wooden bridges, between grey

rocks and groves of plane-trees, whose trunks
were half veiled in golden-brown moss. Then
on beneath a hill covered with young pines,
which grew to the very road-sides catching faraway
glimpses of a darkened and mysterious
sky through the forest of stems. Then past
larger and taller pine-trees, which, standing
further apart, let in more sky, and left space for
the brown earth to be flecked with sunshine.
And here, in the most peaceful of all country
regions, they met a handsome-looking peasant,
in gay Tyrolese attire, much adorned with
silver chains, since it was Ascension Day and a
festival. He was leading by the hand his little
daughter.

That is a peaceful lot,' said Raebnrn,
glancing at them. ' Would we like to change
places with them, little son Eric V

She laughed and shook her head, but fell,
nevertheless, into a reverie, wondering what
such a character as her father's would have
been under less hard circumstances, trying to
picture a possible life in that sheltered green
valley. All was so perfectly peaceful ; the
very river grew broader and calmer, cattle

grazed by the roadside, women walked slowly
along with their knitting in their hands, the
fruit-trees were Avhite with blossom. As they
reached the pretty village of Berchtesgaden the
sun was setting, the square, comfortable-looking
white houses, with their broad dark eaves
and balconies, were bathed in a rosy glow, the
two spires of the little church stood out darkly
against the evening sky ; in the plats women
were filling their pitchers at a stone fountain
made in the shape of a rampant lion, while
others were kneeling before the calvary at
the entrance to the village, praying With the
reverence which is one of the characteristics
of the Tyrol ese. Towering above all in the
background rose the two Wartzmann peaks,
standing there white and majestic like guardian
angels.

What foolish being called seven the perfect
number?' said Raeburn, turning back from
a last look at the twin mountains which
were now assuming their cloud caps. ' Two
is the perfect number, is it not, little
oner

She smiled and slipped her hand into his.

Then came a wild, desolate part of the road,
which passed through a valley shut-in on all
sides by mountains, some of them snowy, all
wild and precipitous, and looking strangely
desolate in the failing light. Erica could not
help contrasting it with the view from the
amphitheatre at Fiesole, of that wider amphitheatre
of green hills all glowing with light
and love. But presently came more peaceful
glimpses ; pretty little Schellenburg with its
serpentine river winding again and again
through the village street, and the happy-looking
peasants chatting at their doors with here
and there a white-capped baby made much of
by all.

At last in the cool of the evening they
reached Salzburg once more. But the pleasures
of the day were not yet over, for as they
drew up at the door of their hotel a well-known
figure suddenly emerged from the porch
and hurried towards the carriage.

unexpected as a meteor,' said a hearty
voice, in slightly foreign accents. ' Well, my
good friend, well, my guardian angel, how are

you both? We meet under more auspicious
circumstances this time !'
It was Eric Haeberlein.

CHAPTER IV.

THE MOST Unkindness CUT OF ALL.

Those who persecuted them supposed of course that they
were defending Christianity, but Christianity can be defended
in no such way. It forbids all persecution — all
prosecution for the sake of religion. Force cannot possibly
propagate the truth or produce the faith, or promote
the love in which the gospel consists. . . . Persecution can
never arise from the zeal for the Gospel as truth — from zeal
for the Gospel properly understood. If ever due to zeal in
any measure, and not to pride, selfishness, anger, ambition,
and other hateful lusts . it must be to a zeal which is in
alliance with error . . . The men [atheists] therefore, who,
by their courage and endurance were specially instrumental
in convincing their countrymen that persecution for the
avowal and advocacy even of atheism is a folly and a crime,
have really rendered a service to the cause of Christian
truth, and their names will not be recorded without honour
when the history of our century is impartially written.

Baird Lectures, 1877.
K. Flint, Dad., Professor of Divinity, Edinburgh.

A FEW days later the brief holiday ended, aud
father and daughter were both hard at work

again in London. They had crossed from Antwerp
by night, and had reached home about
ten o'clock, to find the usual busy life awaiting
them.

Tom and Aunt Jean, who had been very dull
in their absence, were delighted to have them
back again ; and though the air was thick with
coming troubles, yet it was nevertheless a real
shortcomings while Erica, in spite of her hidden
sorrow, had a very real enjoyment in describing
her first foreign tour. They were making a
late breakfast while she talked, Raeburn
being more or less absorbed in the Daily
Review.

You see such an early newspaper is a luxury
now,' said Erica. ' Not that he's been behaving
well abroad. He promised me when we started
that he'd eschew newspapers altogether, and
give his brain an entire rest; but there is
a beguiling reading-room at Florence, and
there was no keeping him away from it.

What's that ? What are you saying f said
Raeburn, absently.

That very soon, father, you will be as absentminded
as King Stars-and-Garters in the fairy

VOL. III. H

tale, who one day, in a fit of abstraction, buttered
his newspaper, and tried to read his
toast.'

Raeburn laughed, and threw down the Daibj
Review.

Saucier than ever, isn't she, Tom ? Well,
we've come back to a few disagreeable ; but
then we've come back, thank — man ! to roast
beef and Turkey towels, and after kickshaws
and table-napkins one knows how to appreciate
such things.'

We could have done with your kickshaws
here said Tom. 'If you hadn't come back
soon, Erica, I should have gone to the bad
altogether ; for home-life, with the cook to
cater for one, is intolerable. That creature has
only two ideas in her head ! We rang the
changes on rice and stewed rhubarb. The
rhubarb in its oldest stage came up four days
running. We called it the widow's cruse !
Then the servants would make a point of
eating onions for supper, so that the house
was insufferable. And at last we were driven
from pillar to post by a dreadful process called
house-cleaning, in which, undoubtedly, life is

not worth living. In the end, Mr. Osmond
took pity on me, and lent me Brian's study.
Imagine heretical writings emanating from that
room !'

This led the conversation round to Brian's
visit to Florence , and Erica was not sorry to be
interrupted by a note from Mr. Bircham, requesting
her to write an article on the Kilbeg-
gan murder. She found that the wheels of the
household machinery would need a good deal
of attention before they would move as smoothly
as she generally contrived to make them.
Things had somehow ' got to wrongs ' in her
absence. And when at length she thought
everything was in train, and had got thoroughly
into the spirit of a descriptive article on the
Irish tragedy, the cook of two ideas interrupted
her with what seemed, in contrast, the most
trivial of matters.

'If you please, miss she said, coming into
the green-room just as the three villains in
black masks were in the act of killing their
victim, ' I thought you'd wish to know that
we are wanting a new set of kitchen-cloths ;
and if you'll excuse me mentioning it, miss,

there's Jane, miss, using glass-cloths as tea-cloths,
and dusters as knife-cloths.'

Erica looked slightly distracted, but diverted
her mid from the state of Ireland to the state
of the household linen, and, when left alone
once more, laughed to herself at the incongruity
of the two subjects.

It was nearly a fortnight before Brian returned
from Switzerland. Erica knew that he
was in the well-known house on the opposite
side of the square, and through the trees in the
garden they could each see the other's place of
residence. It was a sort of nineteenth century
version of the Rhine legend, in which the knight
of Rolandseck looked down upon Nonnenwertb,
where his lady-love was immured in a convent.

She had rather dreaded the first meeting, but,,
when it came, she felt nothing of what she had
feared. She was in the habit of going on
Sunday morning to the eight o'clock service
at the church in the square. It was nearer
than Charles Osmond's church, and the hour
interfered less with household arrangements.
Just at the corner of the square, on the morning
of Trinity Sunday, she met Brian. Her

heart beat quickly as she shook hands with
him, but there was something in his bearing
which set her entirely at her ease after just the
first minute. He looked much older, and a
certain restlessness in look and manner had
quite left him, giving place to a peculiar calm
not unlike his father's expression. It was the /
expression which a man bears when he has lost
the desire of his heart, yet manfully struggles
on, allowing no bitterness to steal in, facing
unflinchingly the greyness of a crippled life.
Somehow, joining in that thanksgiving service
seemed to give them the true key-note for their
divided lives. As they came out into the porch,
he asked, her a question.

You are an authority on quotations, I "know ;
my father wants to verify one for his sermon
this morning. Can you help him ? it is this :

Revealed in love and sacrifice,
The Holiest passed before thine eyes,
One and the same, in threefold guise." '

It is Whittier, I know,' said Erica, promptly ;
and 1 think it is in a poem called " Trinity."
Come home with me, and we will hunt for
it.'

So they walked back together silently, and
found the poem, and at Raeburn's request Brian
stayed to breakfast, and fell back naturally into
his old place with them all.

The following day Raeburn had to attend a
meeting in the north of England ; he returned
on the Tuesday afternoon, looking, Erica
fancied, tired and overdone.

Railway journeys are not quite the rest
they once were to me,' he confessed, throwing
himself down in a chair by the open window,
while she brought him some tea. ' This is very
beguiling, little one ; but see, I've all these
letters to answer before five.'

Your train must have been very late.'

Yes, there was a block on the line, and we
stopped for half-an-hour in the middle of a
bean-field — bliss that a Londoner can't often
enjoy.'

'Did you get out?'

Oh, yes, and sat upon the fence and meditated,
to the great delectation of my olfactory
nerves.'

Erica's laugh was checked by a knock at the

door. The servant announced that a gentleman
wanted to see Miss Eaeburn.

Some message from Mr. Bircham, I expect
said Erica to her father. task him upstairs,
please. I only hope he doesn't want me to
write another article at the eleventh hour. If
it's the little Irish sub-editor , you must be very
polite to him, father, for he has been kind tome.'


But it was no message from the Daily Review
oflSce ; a perfect stranger was shown into the
room.

He bowed slightly as he entered.

Are you Miss Erica Raeburn f he asked,
coming towards her.

I am,' she replied. ' What is your business
with me f

I have to place this document in your
hands.'

He gave her a paper, which she rapidly unfolded.
To her dying day she could always
see that hateful bit of foolscap, with its alternate
printing and writing. The words were to
this effect :

Writ SuBr(ENA ad Test, at sittings of High Court.

Bet^Yeeu Luke Raeburn, Plaintiff,

AND

William Henry Pogson, Defendant.

VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith,

To Erica Raeburn, greeting.
We command you to attend at the sittings of the Queen's
Bench Division of our High Court of Justice to be holden
at Westminster, on Tuesday the Twentieth day of June,
18 — , at the hour of half-coast Ten in the forenoon, and so
from day to day during the said sittings, until the above
cause is tried, to give evidence on behalf of the Defendant.
Witness, etc., etc.

Erica read the paper twice before she looked
up; she had grown white to the very lips.
Raeburn, recognising the form of a subpoena,
came hastily forward, and in the merest glance
saw how matters were. By no possibility
could the most malicious of opponents have
selected a surer means of torturing him.

Is this legal V asked Erica, lifting to his
eyes that flashed with righteous indignation.

'Oh, it is legal,' he replied, bitterly — 'the
pound of flesh was legal. A wife need not
appear against her husband, but a daughter

may be dragged into court and forced to give
evidence against her father.'

As he spoke, such anger flashed from his
eyes that the clerk shivered all down his backbone.
He thought he would take his departure
as quickly as might be, and drawing a little
nearer, put down a coin upon the table beside
Erica.

This fee is to cover your expenses, madam,'
he said.

What !' exclaimed Erica, her anger leaping
up into a sudden flame, ' do you think I shall
take money from that man V

She had an insane desire to snatch up the
sovereign and fling it at the clerk's head, but,
restraining herself, merely flicked it back across
the table to him just touching it with the back
of her hand, as though it had been polluted.

You can take that back again,' she said, a
look of scorn sweeping over her face. 'Tell
Mr. Pogson that, when he martyrs people, he
need not say, " The martyrdom will make you
hungry — here is luncheon money," or " The
torture will tire you — here is your cab-fare !" '

^ But, madam, excuse me,' said the clerk looking

much embarrassed * I must leave the money,
I am bound to leave it

If you leave it, I shall just throw it into the
fire-place before your eyes said Erica. ' But
if indeed it can't be sent back, then give it to
the first gutter-child you meet — do anything
you like with it ! hang it on your watch-chain
as a memento of the most cruel case your firm
ever had to do with !'

Her colour had come back again, her cheeks
were glowing, in her wrath she looked most
beautiful ; the clerk would have been less than
human if he had not felt sorry for her. There
was a moment's silence ; he glanced from the
daughter to the father whose face was still
pale and rigid. A great pity surged up in
the clerk's heart. He was a father himself,
involuntarily his thoughts turned to the little
home at Tilbury where Mary and Kitty would
be waiting for him that evening. What if they
should ever be forced into a witness-box to confirm
a libel on his personal character? A sort
of moisture came to his eyes at the bare idea.
The counsel for the defence, too, was that
Cringer, Q.C. the greatest bully that ever wore

THE MOST Unkindness CUT OF ALL. 107

silk ! Then lie glanced once more at the silent
majestic figure ^vith the rigid face, who though
an atheist was yet a man and a father.

Sir he said, with the ring of real and deep
feeling in his voice, ' sir , believe me, if I had
known what bringing this subpoena meant, I
would sooner have lost my situation !'

Raeburn's face relaxed ; he spoke a few courteous,
dignified words, accepting with a sort of
unspoken gratitude the man's regret, and in a
few moments dismissing him. But even in
those few moments the clerk, though by no
means an impressionable man, had felt the spell,
the strange power of fascination which Raeburu
invariably exercised upon those he talked with —
that inexplicable influence which made cautious,
hard-headed mechanics ready to die for him,
ready to risk anything in his cause.

The instant the man was gone, Raeburn sat
down at Erica's writing-table and began to
answer his letters. His correspondents got
very curt answers that day. Erica could tell
by the sound of his pen how sharp were the
down-strokes, how short the rapidly written
sentences.

Cau I help sou V she asked, drawing nearer
to him.

He hastily selected two or three letters not
bearing on his anti-religious work, gave her
directions, then plunged his pen in the ink once
more, and went on writing at lightning speed.
When at length the most necessary ones were
done, he pushed back his chair, and getting up
began to pace rapidly to and fro. Presently he
paused, and leaned against the mantelpiece, his
face half shaded by his hand.

Erica stole up to him silently.

Sometimes, Eric,' he said, abruptly, ' I feel
the need of the word " Devil'' My vocabulary
has nothing strong enough for that man.'

She was too heartsick to speak ; she drew
closer to him with a mute caress.

'Erie!' he said, holding her hands between
his, and looking down at her with an indescribably
eager expression in his eyes, ' Eric, surely
noir you see that this persecuting religion, this
religion which has been persecuting innumerable
people for hundreds of years, is false,
worthless, rotten to the core! Child! child!
surely you can't believe in a God whose followers

thy to promote His glory by sheer brutality
like this V

It was the first time he had spoken to her on
this subject since their interview at Codrington,
They had resolved never to touch upon it again ;
but a sort of consciousness that some good
must come to him through this new bitterness
a hope that it must and would convince his
child, impelled Raeburn to break his resolution.

I could sooner doubt that you are standing
here, father, with your arm round me,' said
Erica ' than I could doubt the presence of your
Father and mine — the All-father.'

Even though His followers are such lying
scoundrels as that Pogson ? A7hat do you
make of that ? What do you think of that V

I think,' she replied, quietly, * that my father
is too just a man to judge Christianity by the
very Avorst specimen of a Christian to be met
with. Anyone who does not judge Secularism by
its very best representatives, dead or living, is
unfair — and what is unfair in one case is unfair
in another.*

Well, if I judged it by you, perhaps I might
take a different view of it,' said Raeburn. 'But

then jow had the advantage of some years of
Secularism.'

'Not by me !' cried Erica. ' How can it seem
anything but very faulty when you judge it
only by faulty people? Why not judge it by
the life and character of Christ?'

Raeburn turned away with a gesture of
impatience.

A myth ! a poetic creation — long ago distorted
out of its true proportions I There,
child, I see we rust stop. I only pain you and
torture myself by arguing the question.'

One more thing,' said Erica, ' before we go
back to the old silence. Father, if yon would
only write a life of Christ — I mean, a really
complete life ; the one you wrote years ago was
scarcely more than a pamphlet.'

He smiled a little, knowing that she thought
the deep study necessary for such an undertaking
would lead to a change in his views.

My dear,' he said, ' perhaps I would ; but
just see how I am overdone. I couldn't write
an elaborate thing now. * Besides, there is the
book on the Pentateuch not half finished, though
it was promised months ago. Perhaps a year

or two hence, when Pogson gives me time to
draw a long breath, I'll attempt it ; but I have
an idea that one or other of us will have to be
kilt intirely " before that happy time arrives.
Perhaps we shall mutually do for each other,
and re-enact the historical song.' And , with
laughter in his eyes, he repeated,

There once were two cats of Kilkenny,

Each thought there was one cat too many,

So they quarrelled and spit, and they scratched and they bit,

Till, excepting their nails and the tips cf their tails,

Instead of two cats, there weren't any.'

Erica smiled faintly, but sighed the next
minute.

Well, there ! it's too grave a matter to jest
about,' said Raeburn. ' Oh, bairn ! if I could
but save you from that brute's malice, I should
care very little for the rest.'

Since you only care about it for my sake,
and I only for yours, I think we may as well
give up caring at all,' said Erica, looking up at
him with a brave smile. 'And, after all, Mr.
Cringer, Q.C., can only keep me in purgatory
for a few hours at the outside. Don't you
think, too, that such a cruel thing will damage
Mr, Pogson in the eyes of the jury V

Unfortunately, clear, juries are seldom inclined
to show any delicate considerateness to
an atheist,' said Raeburn.

And Erica knew that he spoke truly enough.

No more was said just then. Raeburn began
rapidly to run through his remaining correspondence
— a truly miscellaneous collection.
Legal letters, political letters, business letters, —
requests for his autograph, for his help, for his
advice ; — a challenge from a Presbyterian minister
in the north of Scotland to meet him in
debate : the like from a Unitarian in Norfolk ; a
coffin and some insulting verses in a match-box,
and lastly an abusive letter from a clergyman,
holding him responsible for some articles by Mr.
Masterman, which he had nothing whatever todo
with, and of which he in fact disapproved.

What would they think, Eric, if 1 insisted
on holding the Bishop of London responsible
for every utterance of every Christian in the
diocese?' said Raeburn.

They would think you were a fool,' said Erica,
cutting the coffin into little bits as she spoke.

Raeburn smiled and pencilled a word or two
on the letter — the pith of a stinging reply.

CHAPTER V.

RAEBURN V. Poison.

Ob, God of mountains, stars, and boundless spaces I
Oh, God of freedom and of joyous hearts !
When Thy face looketh forth from all men's faces,
There will be room enough in crowded marts.
Brood Thou around me, and the noise is o'er ;
Thy universe my closet with shut door.

Heart, heart, awake ! The love that loveth aU
Maketh a deeper calm than Horeb's cave.
God in thee, can His children's folly gall ?
Love may be hurt, but shall not love be brave ?
Thy holy silence sinks in dews of balm ;
Thou art my solitude, my mountain calm.

George Mac Donald.

When a particularly unpleasant event has long
been hanging over one's head, sure to come at
some time, though the precise date is unknown,
people of a certain disposition find it perfectly
possible to live on pretty comfortably through
VOL. HI. I

the waiting time. But when at length the
date is fixed, when you know that that which
you dread will happen upon such and such a
day, then the waiting begins all at once to
seem intolerable. The vague date had been
awaited calmly, but the certain date is awaited
with a wearing anxiety which tells fearfully
on physical strength. When Erica knew
that the action for libel would begin in a fortnight's
time, the comparative calmness of the
nine months which had passed since the outset
of the matter gave place to a perfect agony of
apprehension. Night after night she had fearful
dreams of being cross-examined by Mr.
Cringer, Q.C., who always forced her to say
exactly what she did not mean. Night after
night coldly curious eyes stared down at her
from all parts of a crowded court ; while her
misery was completed by being perfectly conscious
of what she ought to have said directly
it was too late.

By day she was too wise to allow herself to
dwell on the future ; she worked doubly hard,
laid-in a stock of particularly interesting books,
and threw herself as much as possible into the

lives of others. Happily, the Warrants were in
town, and she was able to see a great deal of
them ; while on the very day before the trial
came a substantial little bit of happiness.

She was sitting in the study doing some
copying for her father, when a brougham stopped
at the door. Erica, who never failed to
recognise a horse if she had once seen it before,
who even had favourites among the dozens of
omnibus horses which she met daily in Oxford
Street, at once knew that either Donovan or
Gladys had come to see her.

She ran out into the hall to meet them, but
had no sooner opened the study door, than the
tiniest of dogs trotted into the room, and
began sniffing cautiously at her father's clothes.

'Tottie'has made a very unceremonious entrance,'
said a clear, mellow voice in the passage.
may we come in, or are you too busy to-day?'

Oh, please come in. Father is at home, and
I do so want you to meet said Erica. ' You
have brought Dolly , too, that is delightful. AVe
are dreadfully in want of something young and
happy to cheer us up.'

The two men shook hands, with the moment



mary keen glance into each other's eyes which
those give who have heard much of one another
but have never been personally acquainted.

'As to Dolly,' said Donovan, *she requires no
introduction to Mr. Raeburn.'

'No said Erica , laughing, ' she cried all over
his coat two years ago '

Dolly did not often wait for introductions,
unless she disliked people. And no child could
have found it in its heart to dislike anything so
big and kind and fatherly as Luke Raeburn.

We brought a little dog for EHca,^ she said,
in her silvery treble.

And the next moment she was established on
Raeburn's knee, encouraged to thrust a little,
dimpled hand into his pocket for certain Edinburgh
dainties.

'Dolly does not beat about the bush,' said
Donovan, smiling. ' Would you at all care to
have this small animal? I knew you were fond
of dogs, and Gladys and I saw this little toy Esquimaux
the other day, and fell in love with him.
I find, though, that another dog rather hurts
Waifs feelings so you will be doing a kindness
to him as well, if you will accept Tottie.'

Oh, how delightful of you I it was kind of
you to think of it,' said Erica. ' I have always
so longed to have a dog of my own. And this
is such a little beauty! Is it not a very rare breed '^

I believe it is, and I think he's a loving little
beggar, too,' replied Donovan. * He is making
himself quite at home here, is he not V

And in truth the small dog seemed deeply
interested in his new residence. He was the
tiniest of his kind, and was covered with long
black hair which stood straight up on end ; his
pointed nose, bright brown eyes, and cunning
little ears set in the framework of bushy hair,
gave him a most sagacious appearance. And
just now he was brimful of curiosity, pattering
all over the room, poking his nose into a great
pile of Idol-breakers, sniffing at theological and
anti-theological books with perfect impartiality,
rubbing himself against Raeburn's foot in the
most ingratiating way, and finally springing upon
Erica's lap with the oddest mixture of defiance
and devotion in his eyes, which said as
plainly as if he had spoken, ' People may say
what they like about you, but Vm your faithful
dog from this day forward !'

Raeburn was obliged to go out almost directly,
as he had an appointment in the city, but Erica
knew that he had seen enough of Donovan to
realise what he was, and was satisfied.

I am so glad you have just met she said,
when he had left the room. ' And, as to Dolly,,
she's been a real god-send. I haven't seen my
father smile before for a week

Strange, is it not, how almost always children
instinctively take to those whom the
world treats as outcasts ! I have a great belief
that God lets the pure and innocent make up
in part by their love for the un charitableness of
the rest of us.'

That's a nice thought,' said Erica. ' I have
never had much to do with children, except
with this one.' And as she spoke she lifted
Dolly on her lap beside Totter

have good reason to believe in both this
kind and that,' said Donovan, touching the
dusky head of the dog and the sunny hair of
the child. As he spoke, there was a look in his
eyes which made Erica feel inclined almost to
cry. She knew that he Vv-as thinking of the
past, though there was no regret in his expression,

only a shade of additional gravity about
his lips, and an unusual light about his brow and
eyes. It was the face of a man who had known
both the evil and the good, and had now reached
far into the Unseen.

By-and-by they talked of Switzerland, and of
Brian, Donovan telling her just what she wanted
to know about him, though he never let her
feel that he knew all about the day at Fiesole.
And from that they passed to the coming trial,
of which he spoke in exactly the most helpful
way, not trying to assure her, as some well-meaning
people had done, that there was really
nothing to be grieved or anxious about ; but
fully sympathising with the pain, while he
somehow led her on to the thought of the unseen
good which would in the long-run result
from it.

I do believe that now, with all my heart,'
she said.

I knew you did he replied , smiling a little.
You have learnt it since you were at Grey*shot
last year. And once learnt, it is learnt forever.'


Yes,' she said, musingly. ' But, oh ! how

slowly one learns in such little bits ! It's a
great mistake to think that we grasp the whole
when the light first comes to us ; and yet it
feels then like the whole.'

Because it was the whole you were then
capable of,' said Donovan. ' But, you see, you
grow.'

AVant to grow, at any rate,' said Erica.
Grow conscious that there is an Infinite to
grow to.'

Then, as in a few minutes he rose to
go,

Well ! you have done me good, you and
Dolly, and this blessed little dog. Thank you
very much for coming.'

She went out with them to the door, and
stood on the steps, with Tottie in her arms,
smiling a good-bye to little Dolly.

That's the bravest woman I know,' thought
Donovan to himself, sand the sweetest — save
one. Poor Brian ! Though, after all it's a
grand thing to love such as Erica even without
hope.'

And all the afternoon there rang in his ears
the line —

A woman's soul, most soft yet strong.'

The next day troubles began in good earnest.
They were all very silent at breakfast ; Raeburn
looked anxious and pre-occupied and Erica, not
feeling sure that conversation would not worry
him, did not try to talk. Once Aunt Jean
looked up for a moment from her paper with a
question.

'By-the-by, what are you going to wear,
Erica T

Sackcloth, I think,' said Erica ; ' it would be
appropriate.'

Raeburn smiled a little at this.

'Something cool I should advise,' he said.
The place will be like a furnace to-day.'

He pushed back his chair as he spoke, and
went away to his study. Tom had to hurry
away, too, being due at his office by nine
o'clock ; and Erica began to rack her brains to
devise the nicest of dinners for them that evening.
She dressed in good time and was waiting
for her father in the green-room, when just
before ten o'clock the front door opened, quick
steps came up the stairs, and, to her amazement,
Tom entered.

Back again !' she exclaimed. ' Have you got
a holiday?'

I've got my conger he said, in a hoarse voice,
throwing , himself down in a chair by the
window.

Tom ! What do you mean V she cried, dismayed
by the trouble in his face.

Got the sack,' he said, shortly.

What ! Lost your situation ? But how %
Why?'

I was called this morning into Mr. xAish-
grove's private room ; he informed me that he
had just learnt with great annoyance that I
was the nephew of that (you can supply his
string of abusive adjectives) Luke Raeburn.
Was it true % I told him I had that honour.
Was I, then, an atheist? Certainly. A Rae-burnt
? Naturally. After which came a long
probation, at the end of which I found myself
the wrong side of the office door, with orders
never to darken it again, and next month's
salary in my hand. That's the matter in brief,
Cugincu

His face settled into a sort of blank despair,

SO unlike its usual expression that Erica's wrath
flamed up at the sight.

It's a shame !' she cried — ' a wicked shame !
Oh, Tom dear, I am so sorry for you. I wish
this had come upon me instead.'

I wouldn't care so much,' said poor Tom,
huskily, ' if he hadn't chosen just this time for
it ; but it will worry the chieftain now.'

Erica was on the verge of tears.

Oh, what shall we do — what can we do T
she cried, almost in despair. ' I had not
thought of that. Father will feel it dreadfully.'



But to conceal the matter was now hopeless,
for as she spoke Raeburn came into the room.

What shall I feel dreadfully V he said, smiling
a little. ' If any man ought to be case-hardened,
I ought to be.'

But as he drew nearer, and saw the faces of
the two, his own face grew stern and anxious.

You at home, Tom ! What's the matter V

Tom briefly told his tale, trying to make as
light of it as possible, even trying to force a
little humour into his account, bat with poor

success. There was absolute silence in the
green-room when he paused. Raeburn said
not a word, but he grew very pale, evidently
in this matter being by no means case-hardened.
A similar instance, further removed from his
immediate circle, might have called forth a
strong, angry denunciation ; but he felt too
deeply anything affecting his own family or
friends to be able in the first keenness of his
grief and anger to speak.

My boy,' he said at last, in the low, musical
voice whose perfect modulations taxed Tom's
powers of endurance to the utmost ' I am very
sorry for this. I can't say more now ; we will
talk it over to-night. Will you come to Westminster
with us f

And presently, as they drove along the crowded
streets, he said, with a bitter smile,

There's one Biblical woe which by no possibility
can ever befall us.'

What's that?' said Tom.

" Woe unto you when all men speak well of
you," ' said Raeburn.

A few minutes later, and the memorable trial
of Raeburn v, Pogson had at length begun.

Eaeburn's friends had done their best to dissuade
him from conducting his own case, but
he always replied to them with one of his
Scotch proverbs, 'A man's a lion in his ain
cause.' His opening speech was such an exceedingly
powerful one that all felt on the first
day that he had been right, though inevitably
it added not a little to the disagreeableness of
the case.

As soon as the court had risen. Erica went
home with her aunt and Tom, thankful to feel
that at least one day was ^vell over ; but her
father was closeted for some hours with his
solicitor, and did not rejoin them till late that
evening. He came in then, looking fearfully
tired, and scarcely spoke all through dinner ;
but afterwards, just as Tom was leaving the
room, he called him back.

I've been thinking things over,' he said.
What was your salary with Mr. Shrove V

£100 a year,' replied Tom wondering at
what possible hour the chieftain had found a
spare moment to bestow upon his affairs.

Well , then, will you be my secretary for the
same?'

For many years Tom had given all his spare
time to helping Raeburn with his correspondence,
and for some time he had been the practical,
though unrecognised, sub-editor of the
Idol-Breaker ; but all his work had been done
out of pure devotion to the ' cause.' Nothing
could have pleased him more than to give his
whole time to the work, while his great love
and admiration for Raeburn eminently qualified
him for the service of a somewhat autocratic
master.

Raeburn, with all his readiness to help those
in any difficulty, with all his geniality and
thoroughness of character, was by no means
the easiest person to work with. For, in common
with other strong and self-reliant characters,
he liked in all things to have his own way,
and being in truth a first-rate organiser, he
had scant patience with other people's schemes.
Erica was very glad that he had made the
proposal to Tom, for, though regretting that
he should give his life to the furtherance of work,,
much of which she strongly disapproved, she
could not but be relieved at anything which

would save her father in some degree from
the immense strain of work and anxiety,
which were now altogether beyond the endurance
of a single man, and bid fair to over-tax
even Raebiu-n's giant strength.

Both Charles Osmond and Brian appeared as
voluntary witnesses on behalf of the plaintiff,
and naturally the first few days of the trial
were endurable enough. But on the Friday
the defence began, and it became evident that
the most bitter spirit would pervade the rest of
the proceedings. Mr. Pogson had spared
neither trouble nor expense ; he had brought
witnesses from all the ends of the earth to swear
that (in some cases twenty years ago) they had
heard the plaintiff speak such and such words
or seen him do such and such deeds. The array
of witnesses appeared endless ; there seemed
no reason why the trial ever should come to
an end. It bid fair to be a cause celery, while
inevitably Raeburn's notoriety made the public
take a great interest in the proceedings. It
became the topic of the day. Erica rarely
went in any public conveyance without hearing
it discussed.

One day she heard the following cheering
sentiment.

Oh, of course you know the jury will
never give a verdict for such a fellow as Raeburn.'


I suppose they can't help being rather
prejudiced against him because of his views ;
but, upon my word, it seems a confounded
shame !'

Oh, I don't see that,' replied the first
speaker. * If he holds such views, he must expect
to suffer for them.'

Day after day passed and still the case
dragged on. Erica became so accustomed
to spending the day in court that at
last it seemed to her that she had never
done anything else all her life. Every day she
hoped that she might be called, longing to get
the hateful piece of work over. But days and
weeks passed, and still Mr. Cringer and his
learned friends examined other witnesses, but
kept her in reserve. Mr. Bircham had been
exceedingly kind to her, and in the Daily Review
oflSce, where Erica was treated as a sort of
queen, great indignation had been caused by

Mr. Pogson's malice. ' Our little lady ' (her
sobriquet there) received the hearty support
and sympathy of every man in the place, from
the editor himself to the printer's devil. Every
morning the office-boy brought her in court the
allotted work for the day, which she wrote as
well as she could during the proceedings or
at luncheon-time, with the happy consciousness
that all her shortcomings would be set
right by the little Irish sub-editor, who worshipped
the ground she trod on, and was
always ready with courteous and unofficious
help.

There were many little pieces of kindness
which served to brighten that dreary
summer, for Mr. Pogson's ill-advised zeal
had stimulated all lovers of justice into
a protest against a most glaring instance
of bigotry and unfair treatment. Many
clergymen spoke out bravely and denounced
the defendant's intolerance ; many nonconformist
ministers risked giving dire offence
to their congregations by saying a good word
for the plaintiff. Each protest did its
modicum of good, but still the weary case

VOL. III. K

dragged ou, and every day the bitterness on
either side seemed to increase.

Mr. Pogson had, by fair means or foul, induced
an enormous number of witnesses to
come forward and prove the truth of his statement,
and day after day there were the most
wearisome references to old diaries, to reports
of meetings held in obscure places perhaps more
than a dozen years ago, or to some hashed and
mangled report of a debate which, incredible
though such meanness seems, had been specially
constructed by some unscrupulous opponent
in such a way as to alter the entire
meaning of Raeburn's words — a process which
may very easily be effected by a judicious
omission of contexts. Hepburn was cheered
and encouraged, however, in spite of all the
thousand cares and annoyances of that time by
the rapidly increasing number of his followers,
and by many tokens of most touching devotion
from the people for whom, however mistakenly,
he had laboured with unwearying patience and
zeal. Erica saw only too plainly that Mr.
Pogson was, in truth, fighting against Christianity,

and every day brought fresh proofs of
the injury done to Christ's cause by this modern
instance of injustice and religious intolerance.

It was a terribly trying position, and anyone
a degree less brave and sincere would probably
have lost all faith ; but the one visible good
effected by that miserable struggle was the
strange influence it exerted in developing her
character. She was one of those who seem to
grow exactly in proportion to the trouble they
have had to bear. And so it came to pass that,
while evil was wrought in many quarters, in
this one good resulted — good not in the least
understood by Raeburn, or Aunt Jean, or Tom,
who merely knew that Erica was less hot and
hasty than in former times, and found it more
of a relief than ever to come home to her loving-sympathy.


After all,' they used to say, ' the miserable
delusion hasn't been able to spoil her.'

One day, just after the court had re-assembled
in the afternoon. Erica was putting the finishing
touches to a very sprightly criticism on a
certain political speech, when suddenly she

k2

heard the name, for which she had waited so
long, called in the clerk's most sonorous tones —
Erica Raeburn !'

She was conscious of a sudden white flash as
every face in the crowded court turned towards
her, but more conscious of a strong' Presence
which seemed to wrap her in a calm so perfect
that the disagreeable surroundings became a
matter of very slight import. Here where hostile
eyes indeed; but she was strong enough
to face all the powers of evil at once. A sort
of murmur ran through the court as she entered
the witness-box, but she did not heed it anymore
than she would have heeded the murmur
of the summer wind without. She just stood
there strong in her truth and purity, able, if
need be, to set a whole world at defiance.

Pogson's made a mistake in calling her,'
said a briefless barrister to one of his companions
in adversity ; they both spent their lives
in hanging about the courts, thankful when
they could get a bit of ' deviling.'

Eight you are !' replied the other, putting
up his eye-glass to look at Erica, and letting it
drop after a brief survey. * Vd bet twenty to

one that girl loses him his case ! And I'm
hanged if he doesn't deserve to !'

Well, it is rather a brutal thing to make a
man's own child give evidence against him.
Hullo ! just look at Raeburn ! That man's
either a consummate actor, or else a living
impersonation of righteous auger.'

No acting there,' replied the other putting
up his eye-glass again. ' It's lucky duelling is
a thing of the past, or 1 expect Pogson would
have a bullet in his heart before the day was
over. I don't wonder he's furious, poor fellow!
Now, then, here's old Cringer working himself
up into his very worst temper !'

The whispered dialogue was interrupted fora
few minutes, but was continued at intervals.


By Jove, what a voice she's got ! The jury
will be flints if they are not influenced by it.
Ahj you great brute ! I wouldn't have asked
her that question for a thousand pounds ! How
lovely she looks when she blushes ! He'll confuse
her, though, as sure as fate. No, not a
bit of it ! That was dignified, wasn't it '^ How
the words rang, *' Of course not !" I say, Jack,

this will be as good as a lesson in elocution
for us !'

Raeburn looks up at that for the first time !
Well, poor devil ! however much baited he can,
at any rate,, feel proud of his daughter.'

Then came a long pause. For the fire of
questions was so sharp that the two would not
break the thread by speaking. Once or twice
some particularly irritating question was ruled
by the judge to be inadmissible, upon which
Mr. Cringer looked, in a hesitatingly courteous
manner towards him, and obeyed orders with a
smiling deference ; then, facing round upon
Erica, with a little additional venom, he visited
his annoyance upon her by exerting all his
unrivalled skill in endeavouring to make her
contradict herself.

You'll make nothing of this one, Cringer,'
one of his friends had said to him at the beginning
of Erica's evidence. And he had smiled
confidently, by way of reply. All the more
was he now determined not to be worsted by a
young girl whom he ought to be able to put
out of countenance in ten minutes.

The result of this was that, in the words of

the newspaper reports, ' the witness's evidence
was not concluded when the court rose.' This
was perhaps the greatest part of the trial to
Erica. She had hoped, not only for her own,
but for her father's, sake that her evidence
might all be taken in one day, and Mr. Cringer,
while really harming his own cause by prolonging
her evidence, inflicted no slight punishment
on the most troublesome witness he had ever
had to deal with.

The next morning it all came over again,
with increased disagreeableness.

Erica always was the plucky one,' said Tom
to his mother, as they watched her enter the
witness-box. ' She always did the confessing
when we got into scrapes. I only hope that
brute of a Cringer won't put her out of countenance.'


He need not have feared, though in truth
Erica was tried to the utmost. To begin with,
it was one of the very hottest of the dog-days,
and the court was crowded to suffocation. This
was what the public considered the most interesting
day of the trial, for it was the most
personal one, and the English have as great a

taste for personalities as the Americans, though
it is not so constantly gratified. Apparently,
Mr. Cringer, being a shrewd man, had managed
in the night-watches to calculate Erica's one
vulnerable point. She was fatally clear-headed ;
most aggravating and palpably truthful ; most
unfortunately fascinating; and, though naturally
quick-tempered, most annoyingly self-controlled.
But she was evidently delicate. If he
could sufficiently harass and tire her, he might
make her say pretty much what he pleased.

This, at least, was the conclusion at which he
had arrived. And if it was indeed his duty to
the defendant to exhaust both fair means and
foul in the endeavour to win him his case, then
he certainly fulfilled his duty. For six long
hours, with only a brief interval for luncheon,
Erica was baited, badgered, tormented with
questions which in themselves were insults,
assured that she had said what she had not
said ; tempted to say what she did not mean,
involved in fruitless discussions about places
and dates, and, in fact, so thoroughly tortured,
that most girls would long before have succumbed.
She did not succumb, but she grew

whiter and whiter, save when some vile insinuation
brought a momentary wave of crimson
across her face. -

Tom listened breathlessly to the examination,
which went on in a constant crescendo of bitterness.,


The plaintiff was in the habit of doing this?'

eyes.'

Your suspicion was naturally excited, then V

Certainly not.'

Not excited V — incredulously.

Not in the least.'

You are an inmate of the plaintiff 's house,
I believe T

I am.'

But this has not always been the case T

All my life, with the exception of two years.'
Your reason for the two years' absence had

a connection with the plaintiff's mode of life,
had it not?'

Not in the sense you wish to imply. It had
a connection with our extreme poverty.'

'Though an inmate of your father's house,
you are often away from home V

No, very rarely.'

Oblige me by giving a straightforward
answer. What do you mean by rarely V

Very seldom.'

This is mere equivocation ; will you give mea
straightforward reply V

I can't make it more so,' said Erica, keeping
her temper perfectly, and replying to the nagging
interrogatories. ^ Do you mean once a
year, twice a year f &c., &c., with a steady
patience which foiled Mr. Cringer effectually.
He opened a fresh subject.

Do you remember the 1st of September last
year V

ado.'

Do you remember what happened then T

Partridge-shooting began.'

There was much laughter at this reply ; she
made it partly because even now the comic side
of everything struck her, partly because she
wanted to gain time. What in the world was
Mr. Cringer driving at ?

Did not something occur that night in Guilford
Terrace which you were very anxious to
conceal?'

For a moment Erica was unbounded. It

flashed upon her that he knew of the Chamberlain
adventure, and meant to serve his purpose
by distorting it into something very different.
Luckily she was almost as rapid a thinker asher
father ; she saw that there was before her a
choice of two evils. She must either allow Mr.
Cringer to put an atrocious construction on her
unqualified ' yes,' or she must boldly avow Hae-berlin's
visit.

With regard to my father there was nothing
to conceal she replied.

Will you swear that there was nothing to
conceal?'

With regard to my father I swear there was
nothing to conceal.'

Don't bandy words with me. Will you repeat
my formula — "Nothing to conceal " V

No, I will not repeat that.'

You admit that there loss something to
conceal V

If you call Eric Haeberlein " something' —
yes.'

There was a great sensation in the court at
these words. But Mr. Cringer was non-plussed»
The mysterious ' something,' out of which he

had intended to make such capital, was turned
into a boldly avowed realty — a reality which
would avail him nothing. Moreover, most
people would now see through his very unworthy
manoeuvre. Furiously he hurled question
after question at Erica. He surpassed
himself in sheer bullying. By this time, too,
she was very weary. The long hours of
standing, the insufferable atmosphere, the incessant
stabs at her father's character made
the examination almost intolerable. And the
difficulty of answering the fire of questions
was great. She struggled on, however, until
the time came when Raeburn stood up to ask
whether a certain question was allowable. She
looked at him then for the first time, saw how
terribly he was feeling her interminable examination,
and for a moment lost heart. The
rows of people grew hazy and indistinct, Mr.
Cringer's face got all mixed up with his wig,
she had to hold tightly to the railing. How
much longer could she endure !

'Yet you doubtless thought this probable f
continued her tormentor.

Oh ! no, on the contrary, quite the reverse,'

said Erica, with a momentary touch of
humour.

'Are you acquainted with the popular saying,
"None are so blind as those who will not
see i

The tone was so insulting that indignation
restored Erica to her full strength ; she
was stung into giving a sharp retort.

^ Yes,' she said, very quietly. ' It has often
occurred to me during this action as strangely
applicable to the defendant.'

Mr. Cringer looked as if he could have eaten
her. There was a burst of applause, which was
speedily suppressed.

Yet you do not, of course, mean to deny the
whole allegation V

Emphatically !'

'Are you aware that people will think you
either a deluded innocent or an infamous
deceiver?'

I am not here to consider what people may
think of me, but to speak the truth.'

And as she spoke she involuntarily glanced towards
those twelve fellow-countrymen of hers
upon whose verdict so much depended. Probably

even the oldest, even the coldest of the jurymen
felt his heart beat a little faster as those beautiful,
sad, honest eyes scanned the jury-box. As
for the counsel for the defence he prudently
accepted his defeat, and, as Raeburn would not
ask a single question of his daughter in cross-examination,
another witness was called.

Long after, it was a favourite story among
the young barristers of how Mr. Cringer was
checkmated by Raeburn's daughter.

The case dragged on its weary length till
August. At last, when two months of the
public time had been consumed, when something
like £20,000 had been spent, when most
bitter resentment had been stirred up amongst
the secularists, Mr. Pogson's defence came to an
end. Raeburn'-s reply was short, but effective,
and the jury returned a verdict in his favour,
fixing the damages, however, at the very lowest
sum, not because they doubted that Raeburn
had been most grossly libelled, but because
the plaintiff had the misfortune to be an
atheist.

CHAPTER VI.

rose's adventure.

If Christians would teach Infidels to be just to Christianity,
they should themselves be just to infidelity.

John Stuart Mill.

The green-room was one of those rooms which
show to most advantage on a winter evening ;
attractive and comfortable at all times, it
nevertheless reached its highest degree of comfort
when the dusky green curtains were drawn,
when the old wainscotted walls were lighted
np by the red glow from the fire and the well-worn
books on the shelves were mellowed by
the soft light into a uniform and respectable
brown. One November evening, when without

was the thickest of London fogs, Erica was
sitting at her writing-table with Friskarina on
her lap, and Tottie curled np at her feet hard at
work preparing for one of her science classes,
when she was interrupted by the sound of a
cab drawing up, speedily followed by a loud
ring at the bell.

Surely M. Noirol canst have come already !'
she said to herself, looking at her watch. It
was just six o'clock, a whole hour before wintertime.
Steps were approaching the door
however, and she was just inhospitably wishing
her guest elsewhere, when to her intense
amazement the servant announced ' Miss Fane-smith.'


She started forward with an exclamation of
incredulity, for it seemed absurd to think of
Ftose actually coming to see her in her father's
house. But incredulity was no longer possible
when Rose herself entered, in ulster and travelling
hat, with her saucy laughing face, and her
invariable content with herself and the world in
general.

Why, Erica !' she cried, kissing her on both
cheeks, ' I don't believe you're half properly

glad to see me!. Did you think it was my
wraith ? I assure you it's my own self in the
flesh, and very cold flesh too. What a delightful
room ! I'd uo idea atheists' homes were so
much like other people's. You cold-hearted
little cousin, why don't you welcome reef

1 am very glad to see you,' said Erica, kissing
her again. 'But, Eose, what did bring
you here V

A fusty old cab, a four-wheeler, a growler,,
don't you call them ? But, if you knew why I
have come to you in this unexpected way, you
would treat me like the heroine I am, and
uot stand there like an incarnation of prudent
hesitation. I've been treated like the man in
the parable, I've fallen among thieves, and am
left with my raiment, certainly, but not a farthing
besides in the world. And now, of course,
you'll enact the good Samaritan.'

*Come and get warm,' said Erica, drawing a
chair towards the fire, but still feeling uncomfortable
at the idea of Mr. Fane-Smith's horror
and dismay could he have seen his daughter's
situation. ^ How do you come to be in town,
Eose, and where were you robbed V

VOL. III. li

Why, I was going to stay with the Albnrys
at Sandgale, and left home about three, but at
Haddington when I went to get my ticket, lo
and behold, my purse had disappeared, and I
was left lamenting, like Lord Ullin in the
song !'

Have you any idea who took it V

Yes, I rather think it must have been a man
on the Paddington platform who walked with
a limp. I remember his pushing up against me
very roughly, and I expect that was when he
took it. The porters were all horrid about it,
though ; I could get no one to help me, and I
hadn't even the money to get my ticket. At
last an old lady, who had heard of my penniless
condition, advised me to goto any friends I might
happen to have in London, and I bethought me
of my cousin Erica. You will befriend me,
won't you? For it is simply impossible to get
to Sandgale to-night ; there is no other train
stopping there.'

I wish I knew what was right said Erica,
looking much perplexed. ' You see. Rose, I'm
afraid Mr. Fane-Smith would not like you to
come here.'

Ob, nonsense,' said Rose, laughing. * He
couldn't mind in such a case as this. Why, I
can't stay in the street all night. Besides,
he doesn't know anything about your home,
how should he V

This was true enough, but still Erica hesitated.


Who was that white-haired, patriarchal-looking
man whom I met in the hall V asked
Rose. ' A sort of devotional quaker kind of
man.'

Erica laughed aloud at this description.

That's my father !' she said ; and, before she
had quite recovered her gravity, Raeburn came
into the room with some papers which he wanted
copied.

Father said Erica. ' This is Rose, and she
has come to ask our help because her purse has
been stolen at Paddington, and she is stranded
in London with no money.'

It sounds dreadfully like begging,' said Rose,
looking up into the brown eyes which seemed
half kindly, half critical.

They smiled at this and became at once only
kind and hospitable.

l2

Not in the least,' he said ; ' I am very glad
you came to us.'

And then he began to ask her many practical
questions about her adventure, ending by promising
to put the matter at once into the hands
of the police. They were just discussing the
impossibility of getting to Sandgale that evening,
when Tom came into the room.

Where is mother V he asked. ' She has kept
her cab at the door at least ten minutes ; I had
to give the fellow an extra sixpences

That wasn't auntie's cab said Erica, ' She
came home half an hour ago ; it was Rose's cab.
I hope you didn't send away her boxes '?'

*I beg your pardon said Tom, looking much
surprised and a little amused. ' The boxes are
safe in the hall, but I'm afraid the cab is gone
beyond recall.'

You see it is evidently meant that I should
quarter myself upon you !' said Rose, laughing.

Upon which Raeburn, with a grave and
slightly repressive courtesy, said they should
be very happy if she would stay with them.

That will make my adventure perfect !' said
Rose, her eyes dancing.

At which Auburn smiled again, amused to
think of the uneventful life in which such a
trifling incident could seem an ' adventure.'

It seems very inhospitable,' said Erica ; ' but
don't you think, Rose, you had better go back
to Greyshot V

No, you tiresome piece of prudence, I don't
said Rose, perversely. 'And what's more, I
won't, as Uncle Luke has asked me to stay.'

Erica felt very uncomfortable ; she could have
spoken decidedly had she been alone with any
of the three, but she could not, before them all,
say ' Mr. Fane-Smith thinks father an incarnation
of wickedness, and would be horrified if he
knew that you were here.'

Tom had in the meantime walked to the
window and drawn aside the curtain.

'The weather means to settle the question
for you,' he said. ' You simply can't go off in
such a fog as this ; it would take you hours to
get to Paddington, if you ever did get there,
which is doubtful.'

They looked out and saw that he had not exaggerated
matters ; the fog had grown much
worse since Rose's arrival, and it had been bad

enough then to make travelling by no means
safe. Erica saw that there was no help for it,
Mr. Fane-Smith's anger must be incurred, and
Rose must stay with them. She went away to
see that her room was prepared, and coming
back a little later found that in that brief time
Rose had managed to enthrall poor Tom, who,
not being used to the genus, was very easily
caught, his philosophy being by no means proof
against a fair-haired, bright-looking girl, who
in a very few moments made him feel that she
thought most highly of him, and cared as no
one had ever cared before for his opinion. She
had not the smallest intention of doing harm,
but admiration was what she lived for, and to
flirt with every man she met had become almost
as natural and necessary to her as to breathe.

Erica, out of loyalty to Mr. Fane-Smithy and
regard for Tom's future happiness, felt bound
to be hard-hearted and to separate them at
dinner. Tom used to sit at the bottom of the
table, as Raeburn did not care for the trouble
of carving ; Erica was at the head with her
father in his usual place at her right hand.
She put Rose in between him and the professor,

who generally dined with them on Saturday ;
upon the opposite side were Aunt Jean and
Monsieur Noirol. Now Rose, who had been
quite in her element as long as she had been
talking with Tom in the green-room, felt decidedly
out of her element when she was safely
ensconced between her white-haired uncle and
the shaggy-looking professor. If Erica had felt
bewildered when first introduced to the gossip
and small * society ' talk of Greyshot, Rose
felt doubly bewildered when for the first time
in her life she came into a thoroughly
scientific atmosphere. She realised that there
were a few things which she had yet to
learn. She was not fond of learning,.
so the discovery was the reverse of pleasant
; she felt ignorant and humbled, liking
to be au fait at everything and to know things
and do things just a little better than other
people. Having none of the humility of a true
learner, she only felt annoyed at her own
ignorance, not raised and bettered and stimulated
by a glimpse of the infinite greatness of
science.

Raeburn, seeing that she was not in the least

interested in the discussion of the future of
electricity, left the professor to continue it
with Tom, and began to talk to her about the
loss of her purse, and to tell her of various
losses which he had had. But Eose had the
mortifying consciousness that all the time he
talked he was listening to the conversation
between Erica and Monsieur Noirol. As far
as Rose could make out, it was on French
politics; but they spoke so fast that her indifferent
school French was of very little service to
her. By-and-by Raeburn was drawn into the
discussion, and Rose was left to amuse herself
as well as she could by listening to a rapid
flow of unintelligible French on one side,
and to equally-unintelligible scientific talk on
the other. By-and-by this was merged into a
discussion on some recent book. They seemed
to get deeply interested in a dispute as to
whether Spinoza was or was not at any time
in his life a Cartesian.

Rose really listened to this for want of something
better to do, and Raeburn, thinking that
he had been neglecting her, and much relieved
at the thought that he had at length found

some point of mutual interest,, asked her whether
she had read the book in question.

Oh, I have no time for reading,' said Rose.

He looked a little amused at this statement.
Rose continued —

Who was Spinoza ? I never heard any of his
music'

He was a philosopher, not a composer
said Raeburn, keeping his countenance with
difficulty.

What dreadfully learned people you are !'
said Rose, with one of her arch smiles. ' But
do tell me, how can a man be a Cartesian ?
I've heard of Cartesian wells, but never '

She broke off, for this was quite too much
for Raeburn's gravity ; he laughed, but so pleasantly
that she laughed too.

You are thinking of artesian wells, I fancy,'
he said, in his kindly voice ; and he began to
give her a brief outline of Descartes philosophy,
which it is to be feared she did not at all appreciate.
She was not sorry when Erica appealed
to him for some disputed fact, in which
they all seemed most extraordinarily interested,
for when the discussion had lasted some minutes

, Tom went off in the middle of dinner and
fetched in two or three bulky books of reference
; these were eagerly seized upou^ to the
entire disregard of the pudding, which was
allowed to get cold.

Presently the very informal meal was ended
by some excellent coffee in the place of the
conventional dessert, after which came a hurried
dispersion, as they were all going to some
political meeting at the East-end. Cabs were
unattainable, and, having secured a couple of
link-boys, they set off, apparently' in excellent
spirits.

Fancy turning out on such a night as this !'
said Rose, putting her arm within Erica's. * I
am so glad you are not going, for now we can
really have a cosy talk. I've ever so much to
tell you.'

Erica looked rather wistfully after the torches
and the retreating forms as they made their
way down the steps ; she was much disappointed
at being obliged to miss this particular
meeting, but luckily Rose was not in the least
likely to find this out, for she could not imagine
for a moment that anyone really cared

about missing a political meeting, particularly
when it would have involved turning out on
such a disagreeable night.

Erica had persuaded Rose to telegraph both
to her friends at.^andgale and to her mother
to tell of her adventure, and to say that she
would go on to Sandgale on the Monday For,
unfortunately, the next day was Sunday, and
Rose looked so aghast at the very idea of
travelling then that Erica could say nothing
more, though she surmised rightly enough that
Mr. Fane-Smith would have preferred even
Sunday travelling to a Sunday spent in Luke
Raeburn's house. There was evidently, however,
no help for it. Rose was there, and there
she must stay ; all that Erica could do was to
keep her as much as might be out of Tom's
way, and to beg the others not to discuss any
subjects bearing on their anti-religious work :
and, since there was not the smallest temptation
to try to make Rose a convert to Secularism,
they were all quite willing to avoid such
topics.

But, in spite of all her care Erica failed most
provokingly that day. To begin with. Rose

pleaded a headache, and would not go with her
to the early service. Erica was disappointed;
but when, on coming home, she found Rose in
the dining-room, comfortably chatting over the
fire to Tom who was evidently ia the seventh
heaven of happiness , she felt as if she could
have shaken them both. By-and-by she tried
to give Tom a hint, which he did not take at
all kindly.

Women never like to see another woman
admired,' he replied, with a sarcastic smile.

But, Tom she pleaded, ' her father would
be so dreadfully angry if he saw the way you
go on with her.'

Oh, shut up, do, about her father!' said Tom,
crossly. ' You have crammed him down our
throats quite enough.'

It was of no use to say more ; but she went
away feeling sore and ruffled. She was just
about to set off with Rose to Charles Osmond's
church, when the door of the study was hastily
opened.

Have you seen the last Longstaff Mercury T
said Raeburn, in the voice which meant that he
was worried and much pressed for time.

It was in here yesterday,' said Erica.

Then, Torn, you must have moved it,' said
Raeburn, sharply. * It's a most provoking
thing ; I specially wanted to quote from it.'

I've not touched it,' said Torn. 'It's those
servants ; they never can leave the papers
alone.'

He was turning over the contents of a paper-rack,
evidently not in the best of tempers.
Rose sprang forward.

'Let me help,' she said, with one of her
irresistible smiles.

Erica felt more provoked than she would
have cared to own. It was very clear that
those two would never find anything.

Look herCj Erica,' said Raeburn, ' do see if it
isn't upstairs. Tom is a terrible hand at finding
things.'

So she searched in every nook and cranny of
the house, and at last found the torn remains
of the paper in the housemaid's cupboard. The
rest of it had been used for lighting a fire.

Raeburn was a good deal annoyed.

Surely, my dear, such things might be prevented
he said, not crossly, but in the sort of

forbearing, expostulatory tone which a woman
dislikes mure than anything, specially if she
happens to be a careful housekeeper.

'I told you it was your servants !' said Tom,
triumphantly.

They've had orders again and again not to
touch the newspapers,' said Erica.

Well, come along, Tom,' said Raeburn , taking
up his hat. * We are very late.'

They drove off, and Erica and Rose made the
best of their way to church, to find the service
begun, and seats unattainable. Rose was very
good-natured, however, about the standing.
She began faintly to perceive that Erica did
not lead the easiest of lives ; also she saw, with
a sort of wonder what an influence she was in
the house, and how, notwithstanding their difference
in creed, she was always ready to
meet the others on every point where it was
possible to do so. Rose could not help thinking
of a certain friend of hers, who, having become
a ritualist, never lost an opportunity of emphasising
the difference between her own views
and the views of her family ; and of Kate Brighton
at Grey shot, who had adopted the most

rigid evangelical views, and treated her good
old father and mother as '^ worldly ' and 'unconverted
' people.

In the afternoon Tom had it all his own way.
Raebm^n was in his study preparing for his
evening lecture ; Mrs. Craigie had a Bible class
at the East-end, in which she showed up the
difficulties and contradictions of the old and new
testaments ; Erica had a Bible class in Charles
Osmond's parish, in which she tried to explain
the same difficulties. Rose was therefore alone
in the green-room, and perfectly ready to attract
Tom and keep him spell-bound for the
afternoon. It is quite possible, however, that
no great harm would have been done, if the
visit had come to a natural end the following
day; Rose would certainly have thought no
more of Tom, and Tom might very possibly
have come to his senses when she was no longer
there to fascinate him. But on the Sunday
evening when the toils of the day were over,
and they where all enjoying the restful home
quiet which did not come very often in their
busy lives, Rose's visit was brought to an
abrupt close.

Looked at by an impartial spectator, the
green-room would sm-ely have seemed a model
of family peace aud even of Sunday restfulness.
Rose was sitting at the piano playing Mendelssohn's
' Christmas Pieces,' and giving great
please to everyone, for art was in this house
somewhat overshadowed by science, and it did
not very often happen that they could listen to
such playing as Rose's, which was for that
reason a double pleasure. Tom was sitting
near her looking supremely peaceful. On one
side of the fireplace Mrs. Craigie and Mrs. Mac-houghton
were playing their weekly game of
chess. On the other side Raeburn had this usual
Sunday evening recreation, his microscope.
Erica knelt beside him, her auburn head close
to his white one as they arranged their specimens
or consulted books of reference. The
professor, who had looked in on his way home
from the lecture to borrow a review, was
browsing contentedly among the books on the
table, with the comfortable sense that he might
justifiably read in a desultory holiday fashion.

It was upon this peaceful and almost Sabbatical
group that a disturbing element entered in

the shape of mr. Fane-Smith. He stood for an
instant at the door, taking in the scene, or
rather taking that superficial view which the
naiTow-minded usually take. He was shocked at
the chess-men ; shocked at that profane microscope,
and those week-day sections of plants ;
shocked at the music, though lie inst have
heard it played as a voluntary on many church
organs, and not only shocked, but furious, at
finding his daughter in a very nest of secularists.


Everyone seemed a little taken aback when
he entered. He took no notice whatever of
Raeburn, but went straight up to Rose.

Go and put on your things at once,' he said,
I have come to take you home.'

Oh, papa,' began Rose, * how you *

Not a word, Rose. Go and dress, and don't
keep me waiting,'

Erica, with a vain hope of making mr, Fane-smith
behave at least civilly, came forward and
shook hands with him.

I don't think you have met my father before,'
she said.

Raeburn had come a few steps forward : ^h:

VOL. Il M

Fane-Smith inclined bis head about a quarter of
an inch ; Raeburn bowed, then said to Erica,

Perhaps sir. Fane-Smith would prefer waiting
in my study.'

Thanks, I will wait where I am,' said !Mr.
Fane-Smith, pointedly ignoring the master of
the house, and addressing Erica. ' Thank you,'
as she offered him a chair, ' I prefer to stand.
Have the goodness to see that Rose is quick.'

Thinks the chairs atheistical I' remarked
Tom, to himself.

Raeburn, looking a degree more stately than
Visual, stood on the hearth rug with his back
to the fire, not in the least forgiving his enemy,
but merely adopting for himself the most dignified
role. ~Sh'. Fane-Smith a fcAv paces off with his
anger and ill-concealed contempt did not show to
advantage. Something in the relative sizes of the
two struck the professor as comically like
Landseer's ' Dignity and Impudence.' He
would have smiled at the thought had he not
been very angry at the discourteous treatment
his friend was receiving. Mrs. MacNaughton sat
with her cpieon in her hand as though meditating
her next move, but in reality absorbed in watching

the game played by the hoeing chess-men
before lier. Tom at last broke the uncomfortable
silence by asking the professor about some
of Erica's specimens, and at length Rose came
down, much to everyone's relief, followed by
Erica, who had been helping her to collect her
things.

Are yon ready V said her father. ' Then
come at once.'

'Let me at least say good-bye, papa,' said
Eose, very angry at being forced to make this
undignified, and, as she rightly felt, rude exit.

Come at once,' said Mr. Fane-Smith, in an
inexorable voice. As he left the room, he tin-ned
and bowed stiffly.

Go down and open the door for them, Tom,'
said Raeburn, who throughout mr. Fane-Smith's
visit had maintained a stern, stately silence.

Tom, nothing loth, obeyed. Erica was already
half-way downstairs with the guests, but
he caught them up, and managed to say goodbye
to Eose, even to whisper a hope that they
might meet again, to which Eose replied vriih a
charming blush and smile, which. Tom flattered
himself, meant that she really cared for him.

m2

Had Rose gone quietly away the next morning,
he would not have been goaded into any such
folly. A cab was W' waiting ; but, when Rose was
once inside it, her father recovered his power of
speech, and tiu-ned upon Erica as they stood by
the front door.

I should have thought,' he said, in an angry
voice, ' that, after our anxiety to persuade you
to leave your home, you might have known that
I should never allow Rose to enter this hell, to
mix with blaspheming atheists, to be contaminated
by vile infidels !'

Erica's Highland hospitality and strong family
loyalty Avere so outraged by the words, that to
keep silence was impossible.

You forget to whom you are speaking !' she
said, quickly. ' You forget that this is my father's
house !'

I would give a great deal to be able to forget,'
said Mr. Fane-Smith. ' I have tried
to deal kindly with you, tried to take you from
this accursed place, and you repay me by
tempting Rose to stay with you !'

Erica had recovered herself by this time.
Tom, watching her, could not but wonder at

her self-restraint. She did not retaliate, did not
even attempt to justify her conduct ; at such a
a moment words would have been worse than
useless. But Tom, while fully appreciating the
commonsense of the non-resistance, was greatly
astonished. AVas this his old playmate who
had always had the most deliciously aggravating
retort ready? AVas this hot-tempered Erica'?
That Mr. Fane-Smith's words were hurting her
very much he could see; he guessed, too, that
the consciousness that he, a secularist, was
looking on at this unfortunate display of Christian
intolerance, added a sting to her grief.

It is useless to profess Christianity,' stormed
Mr. Fane-Smith. 'If you openly encourage
infidelity by consorting with these blasphemers,
you are no Christian ! A mere socinian — a
latitudinarian !'

Erica's lips quivered a little at this ; but she
remembered that Christ had been called harder
names still by religious bigots of his day, and
she kept silence.

But understand this,' continued Mr. Fane-smith,
' that I approve less than ever of your
intimacy with Rose, and until you come to see

your folly in staying here, your worse than
folly — your deliberate choice of home and refusal
to put religious duty first — there had better
be no more intercourse between us.'

Can you indeed think that religious duty
ever requires a child to break the fifth commandments?'
said Erica, with no anger, but
with a certain sadness in her tone. ' Can you
really think that by leaving my father I should
be pleasing a perfectly loving God?'

You lean entirely on your own judgment !'
said Mr. Fane-Smith ; ' if 3'ou Avere not too
proud to be governed by authority, you would
see that precedent shows you to be entirely in
the wrong. St. John rushed from the building
polluted by the heretic Cerinthus, a man who,
compared with your father, was almost orthodox!'


Erica smiled faintly.

If that story is indeed true, I should think he
remembered before long a reproof his intolerance
brought him once. " Ye know not what
spirit ye are of." And really, if we are to fall
back upon tradition, I may quote the story
of Abraham turning the unbeliever out of his

tent on a stormy night. " I have shivered him
these hundred years," was the Lord's reproof,
though he dishonoured me, and couldest not
thou endure him for one night !*' I am sorry to
distress you, but 1 must do what I know to be
right.'

Don't talk to me of right,' exclaimed Mr
Fane-Smith, with a shudder. ' You are wilfully
putting your blaspheming father before Christ.
But I see my words are wasted. Let me pass I
The air of this house is intolerable to me I'

He hurried away, his anger flaming up again
when Tom followed him, closing the door of the
cab with punctilious politeness. Eose was
frightened.

Oh, papa,' she said, trembling, ' why are you
so angry? You haven't been scolding Erica
about it ? If there was any fault anywhere,
the fault was mine. What did you say to her,
papa ? What have you been doing V

Mr. Fane-Smith was in that stage of anger
when it is pleasant to repeat all one's hot words
to a second audience, and, moreover, he wanted
to impress Rose with the enormity of her visit.
He repeated all that he had said to Erica, interspersed

with yet harder words about her perverse
self-reliance and disregard for authority.

Rose listened, but at the end she trembled no
longer. She had in her a bit of the true Raeburn
nature, with its love of justice and its
readiness to stand up for the oppressed.

Papa,' she said, all her spoilt-child manners
and little affectations giving place to the most
perfect earnestness. 'Papa, you must forgive
me for contradicting you, but you are indeed
very much mistaken. I may have been silly to
go there. Erica did try all she could to persuade
me to go back to Greyshot yesterday ;
but I am glad I stayed, even though you are so
angry about it. If there is a noble, brave girl
on earth, it is Erica ! You don't know what she
is to them all, and how they all love her. I will
tell you what this visit has done for me. It has
made me ashamed of myself, and I am going to
try to bo wiser, and less selfish.'

It was something of an effort to Rose to say
this, but she had been very much struck with
the sight of Erica's home-life, and she wanted
to prove to her father how greatly he had misjudged
her cousin. Unfortunately, there are

some people in this world who, having once got
an idea into their heads, will keep it in the teeth
of the very clearest evidence to the contrary.

In the meantime, Tom had rejoined Erica in
the hall.

How can such a brute have such a daughter V
he said. ' Never mind, Cugina, you were a little
brick, and treated him much better than he
deserved. If that is a Christian, and this a latitudinarian,
and all the other heresies he threw
at your head, all I can say is, commend me to
your sort, and may I never have the misfortune
to encounter another of his I'

Erica did not reply ; she felt too sick at heart.
She walked slowly upstairs, trying to stifle the
weary longing for Brian, which, though very
often present, became a degree less bearable
when her isolated position — between two fires,
as it were — had been specially emphasized.

That's a nice specimen of Christian charity !'
said Aunt Jean, as they returned to the greenroom.


x\nd he set upon Erica at the door,
and hurled hard names at her as fast ashe
could go,' said Tom, proceeding to give a

detailed account of Mr. Fane Smith's partings
utterances.

Erica picked up Tottie, and held him closely,
turning, as all lovers of animals do in times of
trouble, to the comforting devotion of those
dumb friends who do not season their love with
curiosity or unasked advice, or that pity which
is less sympathetic than silence, and burdens us
with the feeling that our sad ' case ' will be
gossiped over in the same pitying tones at afternoon
teas and morning calls. Tottie could not
gossip, but he could talk to her with his bright
brown eyes, and do something to fill a great
blank in her life.

Tom's account of the scene in the hall made
everyone angry.

And yet,' said Mrs. MacNaughton, ' these
Christians, who use of us such language as this,
own as their master one who taught that a mere
angry word which wounded a neighbour should
receive severe punishment !'

Raeburn said nothing, only watched Erica
keenly. She was leaning against the mantelpiece,
her eyes very sad looking, and about her
face that expression of earnest listening which is

characteristic of those Who are beginning to
learn the true meaning of humility and
righteous judgment.' She had pushed back
the thick waves of hair which usually overshadowed
her forehead, and looked something
between a lion with a tangled mane and a saint
with a halo.

Never mind,' said the professor, cheerfully,
it is to bigotry like this that we shall owe our
recovery of Erica. And seriously, what can
you think of a religion Which can make a man
behave like this to one who had never injured
him, who, on the contrary, had befriended his
child.'

It is not Christ's religion which teaches him
to do it,' said Erica, ' it is the perversion of that
religion.'

Then in all conscience the perversion is
vastly more powerful and extended than Avhat
you deem the reality.'

Unfortunately yes,' said Erica, sighing. ' At
present it is.'

At present !' retorted the professor, ' why, you
have lead more than eighteen hundred years to
improve in.'

'You yourself taught me to have patience
with the slow processes of Nature,' said Erica,
smiling a little. 'If you allow unthinkable
ages for the perfecting of a layer of rocks, do
you wonder that in a few hundred years a
church is still far from perfect V

I expect perfection in no human being,' said
the professor, taking up a Bible from the table
and turning over the pages with the air of a
man who knew its contents well : ' when I see
Christians in some sort obeying this, I will believe
that their system is the true system ; but
not before.' He guided his finger slowly beneath
the following lines : ' " Let all bitterness,
and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil-speaking
be put away from you, with all
malice." There is the precept, you see, and a
very good precept to be found in the secularist
creed as well ; but now let us look at the practice.
See how Ave secularists are treated ! why,
we live as it were in a foreign land, compelled
to keep the law yet denied the protection of
the law! — "Outlaws of the constitution, outlaws
of the human race," as Burke was kind enough
to call us. No ! Avhen I see Christians no longer

slandering oiu' leaders, no longer coining hateful
lies about us out of their own evil imaginations,
when I see equal justice shown to all men of
whatever creed, then, and not till then, will I
listen to all those lofty assertions about the all-conquering
love. Christianity has yet to prove
itself the religion of love; at present it is the
religion of exclusion.'

Mrs. MacXaughton, who was exceedingly
fond of Erica, looked sorry for her.

You see, Erica,' she said, ' the professor
judges by averages. No one would deny that
some of the greatest men in the world have
been, and are even in the present day, Christians
; they have been brought up in it, and can't
free themselves from its trammels. You have
a few people like the Osmonds, a few really
liberal men ; but you have only to see how they
are treated by their confreres to realise the
illiberality of the religion as a whole.'

I think with you,' said Erica, ' that if the
revelation of God's love, and His purpose for all,
be only to be learnt from the lives of Christians,
it is a bad look-out for us. But God has given
ris one perfect revelation of Himself, and the

perfect Son can make lis see plainly even when
the imperfect sons are holding np to us a distorted
likeness of the Father.'

She had spoken quietly but with the tremulousness
of strong feeling, and, moreover, she
was so sensitive that the weight of the hostile
atmosphere oppressed her, and made speaking
a great difficulty. When she had ended, she
turned away from the disapproving eyes to the
only Sympathetic eyes in the room — the dog s.
They looked up into hers with that wistful endeavour
to understand the meaning of something
beyond their grasp, which makes the eyes
of animals so pathetic.

There was a silence ; her use of the adjective
perfect' had been very trying to all her hearers,
who strongly disapproved of the whole sentence
; but then she was so evidently sincere
and so thoroughly loveable that no one liked to
give her pain.

Aunt Jean was the only person who thought
there was much chance of her ever returning to
the ranks of secularism ; she was the only one
who spoke now.

Well, well,' she said, pityingly, * you are but

yoimg ; you will think very differently ten years
hence.'

Erica kept back an angry retort With difficulty,
and Raeburn. whose keen sense of justice
was offended, instantly came forward in her
defence, though her words had been like a fresh
stab in the old wound.

That is no argument, Jean,' he said, quickly.
It is the very unjust extinguisher which the
elders use for the suppression of individuality in
the young.'

As he spoke, he readjusted a slide in his microscope,
making it plain to all that he intended
the subject to be dropped. He had a wonderful
way of impressing his individuality on others,
and the household settled down once more into
the Sabbatical calm which had been broken by
a bigoted Sabbatarian.

Nothing more was heard of Eose, nor did
Erica have an opportunity of talking over the
events of that Sunday with her father for some
days, for he was exceedingly busy, the long-weeks
wasted during the summer in the wearisome
libel case having left upon his hands vast
arrears of provincial work. In some of the

large iron foundries you may see hundreds of
different machines all kept in action by a forty
horse-power engine; and Raeburn was the
great motive-power which gave life to all the
branches of Raeburnites which now stretched
throughout the length and breadth of the land.
Without him they would have relapsed, very
probably, into that fearfully widespread mass
of indifference which is not touched by any
form of Christianity or religious revival, but
which had responded to the practical, secular
teaching of the singularly powerful secularist
leader. He had a wonderful gift of stirring
up the heretofore indifferent, and making
them take a really deep interest in national
questions. This was by far the happiest part
of his life, because it was the healthy part of it.
The sameness of his anti-theological work, and
the barrenness of mere down-pulling, were distasteful
enough to him ; he was often heartily
sick of it all, and had he not thought it a positive
duty to attack what he deemed a very mischievous
delusion, he would gladly have handed
over this part of his work to some one else, and
devoted himself entirely to national work.

He had been away from home for several
days lecturing in the north of England. Erica
was not expecting his return till the following
day, when one evening a telegram was brought
in to her. It was from her father to this effect :

Expect me Jiome hy mail train about tito a.m.
Place too lot to hold me

He had now to a great extent lived down the
opposition which had made lecturing in his
younger days a matter of no small risk to life
and limb ; but Erica knew that there were reasons
which made the people of Ashborongli
particularly angry with him just now. x\sh-
borough was one of those strange towns which,
can never be depended upon. It was renowned
for its riots, and was, in fact (to use a slang
word) a ' rowdy ' place. More than once in the
old days Raeburn had been roughly handled
there, and Erica bore a special grudge to it, for
it was the scene of her earliest recollection — one
of those dark pictures which, having been indelibly
traced on the heart of a child, influence the
whole character and the future life far more
than some people think.

It was perhaps that old memory which made

VOL. III. N

her waiting so anxious that evening. moreover,
she had at first no one to talk to, which
made it much worse. Anne Jean had gone to
bed with a bad toothache, and inst on no
account be disturbed ; and Tom had suddenly
announced his intention that morning of going
down to Brighton on his bicycle, and had set
ofi", rather to Erica's dismay, since, in a letter
to Charles Osmond, Donovan happened to have
mentioned that the Fane-Smiths had taken a
house there for six weeks. She hated herself
for being suspicious ; but Tom had been so unlike
"himself since Rose's \asit, and it was such
an unheard-of thing that he should take a day's
holiday during her father's absence, that it was
scarcely possible to avoid drawing the natural
inference. She was very unhappy about him,
but did not of course feel justified in sajang a
word to anyone else about the matter. Charles
Osmond happened to look in for a moment later
on, expecting to find Raeburn at home, and
then in her relief she did give him an account
of the unfortunate Sunday, though avoiding all
mention of Tom.

It was just like you to come at the very time
I was wanting some one to talk to,' she said,
sitting down in her favourite nook on the hearth-rug
with Frisked on her lap. ' Not a word has
been said of that miserable Sunday since, though
I'm afraid a good deal has been thought. After
all, you know, there was a ludicrous side to it
as well. I shall never forget the look of them
all when Rose and I came down again : Mr.
Fane-Smith standing there by the table the
very incarnation of contemptuous anger, and
father just here, looking like a tired thundercloud
! But, though one laughs at one aspect
of it, one could cry one's eyes out over the thing
as a whole — indeed, just now I find myself
agreeing with Mr. Tulliver that it's " a puzzling
world." '

The fact is,' said Charles Osmond, ' that you
consent patiently enough to share God's pain
over those Who don't believe in Him ; but you
grumble sorely at finding a lack of charity in
the world ; yet that pain is God's too.'

'Yes,' sighed Erica; 'but somehow from
Christians it seems so hard !'

n2

Quite true, child,' he repel, half absently.
It is hard — most hard. But don't let it make
you uncharitable, Erica. You are sharing God's
pain, but remember it is only His perfect love
which makes that pain bearable.'

I do find it hard to love bigots,' said
Erica, sighing. * They ! What do they know
about the thousand difficulties which have
driven people into Secularism ? If they could
but see that they and their narrow theories and
their false distortions of Christ's gospel are the
real cause of it all, there would be some hope !
But they either can't see it or won't.'

My dear, Averse all a lot of blind puppies together,'
said Charles Osmond. ' We tumble up
against each other just for want of eyes. We
shall see when we get to the end of the nine
days, you know.'

You see now,' said Erica ; ' you never hurt
us, and rub us the wrong way.'

Perhaps not,' he replied, laughing. ' But
Mr. Roberts and some of my other brethren
Would tell a different tale. By-the-by, would
you care to help another befogged mortal who
is in the region you are safely out of? The

evolution theory is the clifficiiltj, and, if you
have time to enter into his trouble, 1 think you
could help him much better than I can. If I
could see him, I might tackle him ; but I can't
do it on paper. You could, I think ; and, as the
fellow lives at the other side of the world, one
can do nothing except by correspondence.'

Erica was delighted to undertake the task,
and she was particularly well-fitted for it. Perhaps
no one is really qualified for the post of a
clearer of doubts who has not himself faced and
conquered doubts of a similar nature.

So there was a new interest for her on that
long, lonely evening, and, as she waited for her
father's return, she had time to think out quietly
the various points which she would first take
up. By-and-by she slept a little, and then, in
the silence of the night, crept down to the lower
regions to add something to the tempting little
supper which she had ready in the green-room.
But time crept on, and in the silence she could
hear dozens of clocks telling each hour, and the
train had been long due, and still her father did
not come.

x\t last she became too anxious to read or

think to any purpose ; she drew aside the curtain,
and, in spite of the cold, curled herself upon
the window-seat, with her face pressed close
to the glass. Watching, in a literal sense, was
impossible, for there was a dense fog, if possible,
worse than the fog of the preceding Saturday,
but she had the feeling that to be by the window
made her in some unaccountable way
nearer to her father, and it certainly had the
effect of showing her that there was a. very
good reason for punctuality.

The old square was as quiet as death. Once
a policeman raised her hopes for a minute by
pacing slowly up the pavement ; but he passed
on, and all was still once more, except that
every now and then the furniture in the room
creaked, making the eerie stillness all the more
noticeable. Erica began to shiver a little, more
from apprehension than from cold. She wished
the telegram had come from any other town in
England, and tried in vain not to conjure up a
hundred horrible visions of possible catastrophes.
At length she heard steps in the distance, and
straining her eyes to penetrate the thick darkness

of the murky night, was able to make out just
beneath the window a sort of yellow glare. She
ran downstairs at full speed to open the door,
and there upon the step stood a link-boy, the
tawny light from his torch showing up to perfection
the magnificent proportions of the man
in a shaggy, brown Inverness who stood beside
him, and bringing into strong relief the masses
of white hair and the rugged Scottish face,
which, spite of cold and great weariness, bore its.
usual expression of philosophic calm.

'I thought you were never coming,' said
Erica. ' Why, you must be half frozen ! What
a night it is !'

We've been more than an hour groping our
way from the station,' said Raeburn ; ' and cabs
were unattainable.' Then, turning to the linkboy,
' Come in ; you are as cold and hungry as I
am. Have you got something hot, Eric T

Soup and coffee,' said Erica. ' Which would
he like best V

The boy gave his vote for soup, and, having
seen him thoroughly satisfied and well-paid,
they sent him home, and to his dying day he

was proud to tell the story of the foggy night
when the people's tribune had given him half
Ms own supper. The father and daughter were
soon comfortably installed beside the greenroom
fire, Raeburn making a hearty meal,
though it was past three o'clock.

I never dreamt of finding you up, little son
Eric,' he said, when the Warmth and the food
had revived him. ' I only telegraphed for fear
you should lock up for the night and leave me
to shiver unknown on the door-step.'

« But what happened V asked Erica. ' Why
couldn't you lecture V

flamborough had worked itself up into one
of its tumults, and the fools of authorities
thought it would excite a breach of the peace,
which was excited quite as much and probably
more by my not lecturing. But I'm not going
to be beaten ! I shall go down there again in a
few weeks.'

Was there any rioting?'

Well, there was a roughish mob, who prevented
my eating my dinner in peace, and pursued
me even into my bed-room ; and some of
the Ashborough lambs were kind enough to

overtiini my cab as I was going to the station.
But, having escaped with nothing worse than a
shaking, I'll forgive them for that. The fact
is, they had burnt me in effigy on the 5th, and
had so much enjoyed the ceremony that when
the original turned up they really couldn't be
civil to him, it would have been so very tame.
I'm told the effigy was such a fearful-looking
monster that it frightened the barnes out of
their wits, specially as it was first carried all
round the place on a parish coffin !'

What a hateful plan that effigy-burning is !'
said Erica. * Were you not really hm-t at all
when they upset your cab V

Perhaps a little bruised said Raeburn, ' and
somewhat angry with my charitable opponents.
I didn't so much mind being overturned, but I
hate being baulked. They shall have the lecture,
however, before long ; I'm not going to
be beaten. On the whole, they couldn't have
chosen a worse night for their little game. I
seriously thought we never should grope om*
way home through that fog. It has quite taken
me back to my young days when this sort of
thing met one on every hand ; and there was no

little daughter to cheer me up then, aud very
often no supper, either.'

That was when you were living in Blank
Street'

Yes, in a room about the size of a sentry
box. It was bearable all except the black-beetles
! I've never seen such beetles before or
since — twice the size of the ordinary ones. I
couldn't convince the landlady that they even
existed, she always maintained that they never
rose to the attics ; but one night I armed myself
with Crude's concordance, and, thanks to its
weight and my good aim, killed six at a time,
and produced the corpses as evidence. I shall
never forget the good lady's face ! " You see,
sir," she said, " they never come by day ;
they 'ages the light , because their deeds is
evil." '

Were the beetles banished after that f asked
Erica, laughing.

No, they went on to the bitter end,' said
Auburn, with one of his bright, humorous
looks. 'And I believe the landlady put it all
down to my atheistical views — a just retribution
for harbouring such a notorious fellow in her

bouse ! But there, my child, we mustn't sit up
any longer gossiping ; run off to bed. I'll see-that
the lights are all out.'

CHAPTER Vil.

Freeing OUT THE INCH.

Scepticism for that century, we must consider as the
decay of old ways of believing, the preparation afar off for
new, better, and wider ways — an inevitable thing. We
will not blame men for it ; we will lament their hard fate.
We will understand that destruction of old forms is not
destruction of everlasting substances ; that scepticism, as
sorrowful and hateful as we see it, is not an end but a
beginning.

Carlyle.

One June evening, an elderly man, with closely-cropped
iron-grey hair, might have been seen ina
certain railway-carriage as the Folkestone
train reached its destination. The Cannon
Street platform was, as nsnal, the scene of
bustle and confusion, most of the passengers
were met by friends or relatives, others formed
a complete party in themselves, and, with the

exception of the elderly man, there was scarcely
a unit among them. The fact of his loneliness
would not, of course, have been specially
remarkable had it not been that he was evidently
in the last stage of some painful illness; he
Alas also a foreigner, and, not being accustomed
to the English luggage system, he had failed
to secure a porter as the train drew up, and so,
while others were fighting their way to the van,
he, who needed assistance more than any of
them, was left to shift for himself. He moved
with great difficulty, dragging down from the
carriage a worn black bag, and occasionally
muttering to himself, not as a peevish invalid
would have done, but as if it were a sort of
solace to his loneliness,

The hardest day I've had, this ! If I had
but my Herzbldttchen now, how quickly she
would pilot me through this throng. Ah, well !
having managed to do the rest, I'll not be
beaten by this last bit. Potztausend! these English
are all elbows !'

He frowned with pain as the self-seeking
crowd pushed and jostled him, but never once
lost his temper, and at length, after long waiting,

his turn came, and, having secured his portmanteau,
he was before long driving away in
the direction of Bloomsbury. His strength was
fast ebbing away, and the merciless jolting of
the cab evidently tried him to the utmost, but
he bore up with the strong endurance of one
who knows that at the end of the struggle
relief awaits him.

If he is only at home,' he muttered to himself,
' all will be well. He'll know where I ought
to go ; he'll do it all for me in the best way.
Each I Got in Himmel I but I need some one I'

With an excruciating jerk the cab drew up
before a somewhat grim-looking house ; had he
arrived at the Himmel liehad just been speaking
of, the traveller could not have given an exclamation
of greater relief. He crawled up the
steps, over-ruled some question on the part of
the servant, and was shown into a brightly-lighted
room. At one glance he had taken in
the whole of that restful picture so welcome to
his sore need. It was a good-sized room, lined
with books, which had evidently seen good service,
many of them had been bought with the
price of foregone meals, almost all of them embodied

some act of denial, xlbove the mantelpiece
hung a little oil-painting of a river scene,
the sole thing not strictly of a useful order, for
the rest of the contents of this study were all
admirably adapted for working purposes, but
were the reverse of luxurious.

Seated at the writing-table was the master of
the house, who had impressed his character
plainly enough on his surroundings. He looked
up with an expression of blank astonishment on
hearing the name of his visitor, then the astonishment
changed to incredulity ; but, when the
weary traveller actually entered the room, he
started up with an exclamation of delight which
very speedily gave place to dismay when he saw
how ill his friend was.

Why, Haeberlein !' he said, grasping his hand,
what has happened to you V

'Nothing very remarkable,' replied Chamberlain,
smiling. ' Only a great wish to see you
before I die.' Then, seeing that Raeburn's face
changed fearfully at these Avoids, ' Yes, it has
come to that, my friend, I've a very short time
left, and I wanted to see you ; can you tell me
of rooms near here, and of a decent doctor ?'

Of a doctor, yes,' said Raeburu, ' of one who
will save your life, I hope ; and for rooms —
there are none that I know of except in this
house, where you will of course stay.'

With the little Herzhldttchen to nurse me !'
said Haeberlein, with a sigh of weary content
as he sank back in an arm-chair. ' That would
be a very perfect ending, but think what the
world would say of you, if I, who have lent a
hand to so much that you disapprove, died in
your house ; inevitably you would be associated
with my views and my doings.'

Maybe !' said Raeburn. 'But I hope I may
say that I've never refused to do what was
right for fear of unpleasant consequences. No,
no, my friend, jon must stay here. A hard life
has taught me that, for one in my position, it is
mere waste of time to consider what people will
say ; they ^vill say and believe the worst that
can be said and believed about me ; and thirty
years of this sort of thing has taught me to pay
very little regard to appearances.'

As he spoke he took up the end of a speaking-tube
which communicated with the green-room,
Haeberlein watching his movements with the

placid, weary indifference of one who is perfectly
convinced that he is in the right hands.
Presently the door opened and Erica came in,
Haeberleiu saw now, what he had half fancied
at Salzburg, that, although loving diminutives
would always come naturally to the lips Avhen
speaking of Erica, she had in truth lost the extreme
youthfulness of manner which had always
characterised her. It had to a great extent been
crushed out of her by the long months of wearing
anxiety, and — though she was often as merry
and Idttenish as ever — her habitual manner was.
that of a strong, quick temperament kept in
check. The restraint showed in everything. She
was much more ready to hear and much less
ready to speak, her humorous talk was freer
from sarcasm, her whole bearing characterised
by a sort of quiet steadfastness which made her
curiously like her father. His philosophical calm
had indeed been gained in a very different way,
but in each the calmness was the direct result
of exceptionally trying circumstances brought to
bear on a noble nature.

Herr Haeberleiu has come here to be nursed,'
said Kaebm'u, when the greetings were over.

VOL. III. O

'Will you see that a room is got ready, clear?'

He went out into the hall to dismiss the cab,
and Haeberlein seized the opportunity to correct
his words.

He thinks I shall get better, but it is impossible,
my Herzhldttchen ; it is only a question
of weeks now, possibly only of days. Was I
wrong to come to you V

Of course not,' she said, with the sort of
tender deference with which she always spoke
to him. ' Did you think father would let you
go airy where else V

I didn't think about it,' said Haeberlein,
wearily ; ' but he wouldn't, you see.'

Raeburn returned while he was speaking, and
Erica went away quickly to see to the necessary
preparations. Herr Haeberlein had come,
and she did not for a moment question the
Tightness of her father's decision ; but yet in her
heart she was troubled about it, and she could
see that both her aunt and Tom were troubled
too. The fact was that for some time they
had seen plainly enough that Raeburn's health
was failing, and they dreaded any additional
anxiety for him. A man cannot be involved in

continual and harassing litigation, and at the
same time agitate perseveringly for reform, edit
a newspaper, write books, rush from Land's End
to John o' Groat's, deliver lectures, speak at
mass meetings, teach science, befriend every
unjustly used person, and get through the enormous
amount of correspondence, personal supervision,
and inevitable interviewing, which
falls to the lot of every popular leader, without
sooner or later breaking down.

Haeberlein had come, however, and there was
no help for it. They all did their very utmost
for him, and those last weeks of tender nursing
were perhaps the happiest of his life. Raeburn
never allowed anyone to see how the lingering expectation,
the dark shadow of the coming sorrow,
tried him. He lived his usual busy life, snatching
an hour whenever he could to help in the
work of nursing, and bringing into the sickroom
the strange influence of his strength and
serenity.

The time wore slowly on. Haeberlein, though
growing perceptibly weaker, still lingered, able
now and then to enter into conversation, but
for the most part just lying in patient silence,

listening with a curious impartiality to whatever
they chose to read to him, or whatever they
began to talk about. He had all his life been a
man of no particular creed, and he retained his
curious indifference to the end, though Erica
found that he had a sort of vague belief in a
First Cause, and a shadowy expectation of a personal
existence after death. She found this out
through Brian, who had a way of getting at the
minds of his patients.

One very hot afternoon she had been with
him for several hours, when about five o'clock
her father came into the room. Another prosecution
under the Blasphemy Laws had just
commenced. He had spent the whole day in a
stifling law court, and even to the dying man
his exhaustion was apparent.

Things gone badly V he asked.

Much as I expected,' said Raeburn, taking
up a Marshal Neil rose from the table, and
studying it abstractedly. 'I've had a sentence
of Auerbach's in my head all day. '' The
martyrdom of the modern world consists of a
long array of thousands of trifling annoyances."
These things are in themselves insignificant, but

multiplication makes them a great power.
You have been feeling this heat, I'm afraid.
I will relieve guard, Erica. Is your ai-title
ready V

Not quite,' she replied, pausing to arrange
Haeberlein's pillows while her father raised
him.

Thank you, little Herzbldttchen,' he said,
stroking her cheek, ' auf WiedersehenJ

Auf Wiedersehen' she replied, brightly, and
gathering up some papers ran downstairs to
finish her work for the Daily Review.

A few minutes later, Brian came in for his
second visit.

Any change T he asked.

None, I think,' she answered, and went on
^vith her writing with an apprehensive glance
every now and then at the clock. The office
boy was mercifully late, however, and it must
have been Cjuite half an hour after she had left
Haeberlein's room that she heard his unwelcome
ring. Late as he was, she was obliged to
keep him waiting a few minutes, for it was exceedingly
difficult in those days to get her work
done. Not only was the time hard to obtain, but

the writing itself was a difficulty ; her mind was
occupied with so many other things, and
her strength was so overtasked, that it was
often an effort almost intolerable to sit
down and write on the appointed subject.


She was in the hall giving her manuscript to
the boy when she saw her father come downstairs
; she followed him into the study, and one
look at his face told her what had happened.
He was leaning back in the chair in which buta
few weeks before she had seen Haeberlein
himself; it came over her with a shudder
that he looked almost as ill now as his friend
had looked* She sat down on the arm of his
chair, and slipped her hand into his, but did
not dare to break the silence. At last he
looked up.

I think you know it,' he said. ' It is all over.
Erica.'

Was Brian there f she asked.

Happily, yes, though there was nothing to be
done. The end was strangely sudden and quite
painless, just what one would have wished for

him. But, oil, cliilcl! I can ill spare such a
friend just now !'

His voice failed, and great tears gathered in
his eyes. He let his head rest for a minute on
Erica's shoulder, conscious of a sort of relief in
the clasp of arms which had so often, in weak
babyhood, clung to him for help, conscious of
the only comfort there could be for him as
his child's kisses fell on lips, and brow, and
hair.

I am overdone, child,' he said at length, as
though to account for breaking down, albeit, by
the confession, which but a short time before he
would never have made, that his strength was
failing.

All through the dreary days that followed.
Erica was painted by those words. The work
had to go on just as usual, and it seemed to tell
on her father fearfully. The very day after
Haeberlein's death it was absolutely necessary
for him to speak at a mass meeting in the north
of England, and he came back from it almost
voiceless, and so ill that they were at their wits'
end to know what to do with him. The morrow
did not mend matters, for the jury disagreed in

the Blasphemy Trial, and the whole thing had
to be gone through again.

A more trying combination of events could
hardly have been imagined, and Erica, as she
stood in the crowded cemetery next day at
the funeral, thought infinitely less of the
Quixotic Haeberlein — whom she had, nevertheless,
loved very sincerely — than of her sorely
overtasked father. He was evidently in dread
of breaking down, and it was with the greatest
difficulty that he got through his oration. To
all present the sight was a most painful one, and
although the musical voice was hoarse and
strained, seeming, indeed, to tear out each sentence
by sheer force of will, the orator had
never carried his audience more completely with
him. Their tears were, however, more for the
living than for the dead ; for the man who was
struggling with all his might to restrain his
emotion, painfully spurring on his exhausted
powers to fulfil the duty in hand. More than
once Erie thought he would have fainted, and
she was fully prepared for the small crowd of
friends who gathered round her afterwards, begging
her to persuade him to rest. The worst of

it was that she could see no prospect of rest for
him, though she knew how sorely he longed for
it. He spoke of it as they drove home.

I've an almost intolerable longing for quiet,'
he said to her. ' Do you remember Mill's passage
about the two main constituents of a
satisfied life — excitement and tranquillity ? How [
willingly would I change places to-day with
that Tyrolese fellow whom we saw last year !'

Oh ! if we could but go to the Tyrol again !'
exclaimed Erica ; but Raeburn shook his head.

Out of the question just now, my child ; but
next week, when this blasphemy trial is over,
I must try to get a few days' holiday — that is to
say, if I don't find myself in prison.'

She sighed, the sigh of one who is burdened
almost beyond endurance. For recent events
had proved to her, only too plainly, that her
confidence that no jury would be found to
convict a man under the old blasphemy laws
was quite mistaken.

That evening, however, her thoughts were a
little diverted from her father. For the first time
for many months she had a letter from Rose. It
was to announce her engagement to Captain

Goliglitly. Rose seemed very happy, but there
was an undertone of regret about the letter
which was uncomfortably suggestive of her
flirtation with Tom. Also there were sentences,
which to Erica were enigmatical, about ' having
been so foolish last summer,' and wishing that
she ' could live that Brighton time over again.'
All she could do was to choose the time and
place for telling Tom with discrimination. No
opportunity presented itself till late in the evening,
when she went down as usual to say goodnight
to him, taking Rose's letter with her.
Tom was in his ' den,' a small room consecrated
to the goddess of disorder — books, papers, electric
batteries, crucibles, chemicals, new temperance
beverages, and fishing rods were all
gathered together in wild confusion. Tom
himself was stirring something in a pipkin over
the gas-stove when Erica came in.

An infallible cure for the drunkard's craving-after
alcohol,' he said, looking up at her with a
smile. '"A thing of my own invention"' to quote
the knight in " Through the Looking-glass."
Try some f

No, thank you,' said Erica, recoiling a little

from the very odoriferous contents of the pipkin.
I have had a letter from Eose this evening.'

Tom started visibly.

'What, has Mr. Fane-Smith relented?' ho
asked.

Rose had something special to tell me,' said
Erica, unfolding the letter.

But Tom just took it from her hands without
ceremony, and began to read it. A dark flush
came over his face — Erica saw that much, but
afterwards would not look at him, feeling that
it was hardly fair. Presently he gave her the
letter once more.

Thank you,' he said, in a voice so cold and
bitter that she could hardly believe it to be his.
As you probably see, I have been a fool. I
shall know better how to trust a woman in the
future.'

Oh, Tom,' she cried, * don't let it '

He interrupted her.

'I tout wish to talk,' he said. * Least of all
to one who has adopted the religion which Miss
Fane-Smith has been brought up in — a religion
which of necessity debases and degrades its
votaries.'

Her e^^es filled with tears, but she knew that
Christianity would in this case be better vindicated
by silence than by words, however eloquent.
She just kissed him and wished him
good night. But, as she reached the door, his
heart smote him.

I don't say it has debased you,' he said, ' but
that that is its natural tendency. You are
better than your creed.'

'He meant that by way of consolation,'
thought Erica to herself, as she went slowly
upstairs fighting with her tears.

But of course the consolation had been merely
-a sharper stab ; for to tell a Christian that he is
better than his creed is the one intolerable
thing.

What had been the extent of the understanding
with Rose Erica never learnt, but she feared
that it must have been equivalent to a promise
in Tom's eyes, and much more serious than a
mere flirtation in Rose's, otherwise the regret in
the letter was, from one of Rose's way of thinking,
inexplicable. From that time there was a
marked change in Tom ; Erica was very unhappy
about him, but there was little to be

done, except, indeed, to share all his interests as
much as she could, and to try to make the home-life
pleasant. Bnt this Alas by no means easy.
To begin with, Raebnrn himself was more difficult
than ever to work with, and Tom, who was
in a hard, cynical mood, called him overbearing
where, in former times, he would merely have
called him decided. The very best of men
are occasionally irritable when they are nearly
worked to death ; and, under the severe strain
of those days, Eaebnrn's philosophic calm more
than once broke down, and the quick Highland
temper, usually kept in admirable restraint,
made itself felt.

It was not, however, for two or three days
after Haeberlein's funeral that he showed any
other symptoms of illness. One evening they
were all present at a meeting at the East-end,
at which Donovan Farrant was also speaking.
Raeburn's voice had somewhat recovered, and
he was speaking with great force and fluency,
when all at once, in the middle of a sentence,
he came to a dead pause. For half a minute
he stood perfectly motionless ; before him were
the densely packed rows of listening faces, but

what they had come there to hear he had not
the faintest notion. His mind was exactly like
a sheet of white paper ; all recollection of the
subject he had been speaking on was entirely
obliterated. Some men would have pleaded
illness and escaped, others would have blundered
on. But Raebiuii, who never lost his
presence of mind, just turned to the audience
and said, quietly,

Will some one have the goodness to tell me
what I was saying ? My memory has played
me a trick.'

Taxation !' shouted the people.

A shorthand writer close to the platform repeated
his last sentence, and Raeburn at once
took the cue and finished his speech with perfect
ease. Everyone felt, however, that it was an
uncomfortable incident, and, though to the
audience Raeburn chose to make a joke of it,
he knew well enough that it boded no good.

You ought to take a rest,' said Donovan to
him, when the meeting was over.

I own to needing it,' said Raeburn. ' Pogson's
last bit of malice will, I hope, be quashed in <a
few days, and after that rest may be possible.



He is ot opinion that " there are mony ways of
killing a clog though ye cinna hang him," and,
upon my word, he's not far wrong.'

He was besieged here by two or three people
who wanted to ask his advice, and Donovan
turned to Erica.

He has been feeling all this talk about Herr
Haeberlein ; people say the most atrocious
things about him, just because he gave him
shelter at the last,' she said. ' Really sometimes
the accusations are so absurd that we ourselves
can't help laughing at them. But though I
don't believe in being " done to death by slanderous
tongues," there is no doubt that the
constant friction of these small annoyances does
tell on my father very perceptibly. After all,
you know the very worst form of torture is
merely the perpetual falling of a drop of water
on the victim's head.'

I suppose since last summer this sort of
thing has been on the increase V

Indeed it has,' she replied. ' It is worse, I
think, than you have any idea of You read
your daily paper and your weekly review, but
every malicious, irritating word put forth by

every local paper in England, Scotland, or Ireland
comes to ns, not to speak of all that we
get from private som-ces.'

On their way home they did all in their power
to persuade Raebiirn to take an immediate holiday,
but he only shook his head.

" Dree out the inch when ye have thole the
span," ' he said, leaning back wearily in the cab,
but taking care to give the conversation an
abrupt turn before relapsing into silence.

At supper, as ill-luck would have it. Aunt Jean
relieved her fatigue and anxiety by entering
upon one of her old remonstrances with Erica.
Eaeburn was not sitting at the table ; he was in
an easy-chair at the other side of the room, and
possibly she forgot his presence. But he heard
every word that passed, and at last started up
with angry impatience.

For goodness sake, Jean, leave the child
alone !' he said. ' Is it not enough for me to be
troubled with bitterness and dissension outside,
without having my home turned into an arguing
shop

'Erica should have thought of that before
she deserted her own party,' said Aunt Jean —

before, to quote Strauss, she had recourse to
religious crutches." It is she who has introduced
the new element into the house.'

Erica's colour rose, but she said nothing.
Aunt Jean seemed rather baffled by her silence.
Tom watched the little scene with a sort of
philosophic interest. Raeburn, conscious of
having spoken sharply to his sister, and fearing
to lose his temper again, paced the room silently.
Finally he went off to his study, leaving
them to the unpleasant consciousness that he
had been driven out of his own dining-room.
But when he had gone the quarrel was forgotten
altogether ; they forgot differences of creed
in a great mutual anxiety. Raeburn's manner
had been so unnatural, he had been so unlike
himself, that in their trouble about it they entirely
passed over the original cause of his
anger. Aunt Jean was as much relieved as
anyone when before long he opened his door
and called for Erica.

I have lost my address-book,' he said —
have you seen it about V

She began to search for it, fully aware that
he had given her something to do for him just

VOL. III. P

out of loving consideration, and with the hope
that it would take the sting from her aunt's
hard words. When she brought him the book,
he took her face between both his hands, looked
at her steadily for a minute, and then kissed
her.

All right, little son Eric,' he said, with a sigh.
We understand each other.'

But she went upstairs feeling miserable about
him, and an hour or two later, when all the
house was silent, her feeling of coming trouble
grew so much that at length she yielded to one
of those strange, blind impulses which come to
some people, and crept noiselessly out on to the
dark landing. At first all seemed to her perfectly
still and perfectly dark ; but, looking down
the narrow well of the staircase, she could see
far below her a streak of light falling across the
tiles in the passage. She knew that it must
come from beneath the door of the study, and
it meant that her father was still at work. He
had owned to having a bad headache, and had
promised not to be late. It was perplexing.
She stole down the next flight of stairs and
listened at Tom's door ; then, finding that he

was still about, knocked softly. Tom, with ibis
feet on the mantelpiece, "was solacing himself
with a pipe and a novel ; be started up, bow-ever,
as sbe came in.

What's the matter V be asked, ' is anyone
ill V

I don't know,' said Erica, shivering a little.
I came to know better father bad mncb todo
to-night ; did be tell you V

He was going to write to Jackson about a
situation for the eldest son of that fellow bodied
the other day, you know ; the widow, poor
creature, is nearly worried out of ber life, sbe
was bere this afternoon. Tbe chieftain promised
to see about it at once ; be Wouldn't let me
write, and of course a letter from himself will be
more likely to help the boy.'

But it's after one o'clock,' said Erica, shivering
again, * be can't bave been all this time over
it.'

Well, perhaps be is working at something
else,' said Tom. *He's not been sleeping well
lately, I knoAv. Last night be got through
thirty-three letters, and the night before be
wrote a long pamphlet.'

p2

Erica did not look satisfied.

Lend me your stove for a minute,' she said ;
I shall make him a cup of tea.'

They talked a little about the curious failure
of memory noticed for the first time that evening.
Tom was more like himself than he had
been for several days ; he came downstairs with
her to carry a light, but she went alone into the
study. He had not gone up the first flight of
stay's, however, when he heard a cry, then his
own name called twice in tones that made him
thrill all over with a nameless fear. He rushed
down and pushed open the study door. There
stood Erica with blanched face ; Raeburn sat in
his customary place at the writing-table, but his
head had fallen forward, and though the face
was partly hidden by the desk, they could see
that it was rigid and deathly pale.

He has fainted,' said Tom, not allowing the
worse fear to overmaster him. ' Eun quick, and
get some water, Erica.'

She obeyed mechanically. When she returned,
Tom had managed to get Raeburn on to the
floor and had loosened his cravat, he had also
noticed that only one letter lay upon the desk,

abruptly terminating at ' I am, Yours sincerely.'
Whether the ' Luke Auburn ' would ever be
added, seemed to Tom, at that moment, very
doubtful. Leaving Erica with her father, he
rushed across the square to summon Brian, returning
in a very few minutes with the comforting
news that he was at home and would be
with them immediately. Erica gave a sigh of
relief when the quick, firm steps were heard on
the pavement outside ; Brian was so closely
associated with all the wearing times of illness
and anxiety which had come to them in the last
six years, that in her trouble she almost forgot
the day at Fiesole, regarding him not as her
lover, but as the man who had once before saved
her father's life. His very presence inspired
her with confidence, the quiet authority of his
manner, the calm, business-like way in which
he directed things. Her anxiety faded away in
the perfect consciousness that he knew all about
it, and would do everything as it should be
done. Before very long Raeburn showed signs
of returning consciousness, sighed uneasily —
then, opening his eyes, regained his faculties as
suddenly as he had lost them.

Hullo !' lie exclaimed, starting up. ' What's
all this coil about? What are you doing tome
V

They explained things to him.

Oh ! fainted did I !' he said, musingly. ' I
have felt a little faint once^or twice lately. What
day is it ? What time is it ?' Tom mentioned
the meeting of the previous evening, and Raeburn
seemed to recollect himself. He looked at
his watch, then at the letter on his desk. ' Well,
it's my way to do things thoroughly,' he said,
with a smile ; ' I must have been off for a couple
of hours. I am very sorry to have disturbed
your slumbers in this way.'

As he spoke, he sat down composedly at his
desk, picked up the pen and signed his name to
the letter. They stood and watched him while
he folded the sheet and directed the envelope,
his writing bore a little more markedly than
usual the tokens of strong self-restraint.

Perhaps you'll just drop that in the pillar on
your Away home,' he said to Brian. ' I want
Jackson to get it by the first post. If you
will look in later on, I should be glad to have a

talk with yon. At present I'm too tired to be
overliaiilecL'

Then, as Brian left the room, he tnrnecl to
Erica.

I am sorry to have given you a fright, my
child, but don't worry about me, I am only a
little overdone.'

Again that fatal admission, which from Raeburn's
lips was more alarming than a long
catalogue of dangerous symptoms from other
men!

There followed a disturbed night, and a long
day in a crowded law-court; then one of the
most terrible hours they had ever had to endure,
while waiting for the verdict, which would
either consign E-aeburn to prison or leave him
to peace and freedom. So horrible was the
suspense, that to draw each breath was to Erica
a painful effort. Even Auburn's composure
was a little shaken as those eternal minutes
dragged on.

The foreman returned. The court seemed
to throb with excitement. Raebm'n lifted a
calm, stem face to hear his fate. He knew.

what no one else in the court knew, that this
was to him a matter of life and death.

Are you agreed, gentlemen V

Yes.'

People listened breathlessly.

Do you find the defendant guilty, or not V

Not guilty.'

The reaction was so sharp as to be almost
overpowering. But poor Erica's joy was but
short-heed. She looked at her father's face,
and knew that, although one anxiety was ended,
another was already begun.

CHAPTER VIII.

Halcyon DAYS.

There is a sweetness in autumnal days,
Which many a lip doth praise ;
When the earth, tired a little, and grown mute
Of song, and having borne its fruit,
Rests for a little ere the winter come.
It is not sad to turn the face toward home,
Even though it show the journey nearly done ;
It is not sad to mark the westering sun,
Even though we know the night doth come.
Silence there is, indeed, for song,
Twilight for noon,
But for the steadfast soul and strong-life's
autumn is as June.

From the ' Ode of Life''

Anything in the papers this evening T asked
a young clergyman, who was in one of the
carriages of the Metropolitan Railway late in
the afternoon of an August day.

Nothing of inch interest,' replied his wife,

handing him the newspaper she had been glancing
through. ' I see that wretched Raeburn is
ih. I wish he'd die.'

Oh ! broken down at last, has he V said the
other. ' Where is it ? Oh yes, I see. Ordered
to take immediate and entire rest. Will be
paralysed in a week, if he doesn't. Pleasant
alternative that ! Result of excessive overwork.
Fancy calling his blasphemous teaching work !
I could hang that man with my own hands !'

Erica had had a long and harassing day.
She was returning from the City, where she
had gone to obtain leave of absence from Mr.
Bircham ; for her father was to go into the
quietest country place that could be found, and
she of course was to accompany him. At the
Daily Review office she had met with the
greatest kindness, and she might have gone
home cheered and comforted had it not been
her lot to overhear this conversation. Tom
was with her. She saw him hastily transcribing
the uncharitable remarks, and knew that
the incident would figure in next week's Idol-breaker.
It was only a traceable instance of the
harm done by all such words.

Will you change carriages V asked Tom.

Yes she said ; and as she rose to go she
quietly handed her card to the lady, who, it is
to be hoped, learnt a lesson thereby.

But it would be unjust to show only the dark
side of the picture. Great sympathy and kindness
was shown them at that time by many
earnest and orthodox Christians, and though
Raeburn used to accept this sympathy with the
remark, ' You see, humanity overcomes the baleful
influences of religion in the long-run,' yet
he was always touched and pleased by the
smallest sign of friendliness ; while to Erica
such considerateness was an inestimable help.
The haste and confusion of those days, added
to the terrible anxiety, told severely on her
strength ; but there is this amount of good ina
trying bit of ' hun-king life,' the rest, when
it comes, is doubly restful.

It was about six o'clock on an August
evening when Raeburn and Erica reached the
little country town of Firdale. They were to
take up their abode for the next six weeks at a
village about three miles off, one of the few
remaining places in England which maintained

its primitive simplicity, its peaceful quiet having
never been disturbed by shriek of whistle or
snort of engine.

The journey from town had been short and
easy, but Raeburn was terribly exhausted by
it ; he complained of such severe headache that
they made up their minds to stay that night at
Firdale, and were soon comfortably established
in the most charming old inn, which in coaching
days had been a place of note. Here they
dined, and afterwards Eaeburn fell asleep on a
big old-fashioned sofa, while Erica sat by the
open window, able in spite of her anxiety to
take a sort of restful interest in watching the
traffic in the street below. Such a quiet, easygoing
life these Firdale people seemed, to lead.
They moved in such a leisurely way; bustle
and hurry seemed an unknown thing. And yet
this was market-day, as was evident by the countrywomen
with their baskets, and by occasional
processions of sheep or cattle. One man went
slowly by driving a huge pig ; he was in sight
for quite five minutes, dawdling along, and
allowing the pig to have his own sweet will as
far as speed was concerned, but occasionally

giving him a gentle poke with a stick when he
paused to burrow his nose in the mind. Small
groups of men stood talking at the corner of
the market-place ; a big family went by, evidently
returning from a country walk ; presently
the lamps were lighted, and then immense excitement
reigned in the little place, for at the corner
Adhere the two main streets crossed each other
at right angles a cheap-jack had set up his stall,
and, with flaring naphtha lamps to show up his
goods, was selling by auction the most wonderful
clocks at the very lowest prices — in fact, the
most superior glass, china, clothing, and furniture
that the people of Firdale had ever had
the privilege of seeing. Erica listened with no
little amusement to his fervid appeals to the
people not to lose this golden opportunity, and
to the shy responses of the small crowd which
had been attracted, and which lingered on,
tempted yet cautious, until the cheap-jack had
worked himself up into a white heat of energetic
oratory, and the selling became brisk and
lively.

By-and-by the silvery moonlight began to
flood the street, contrasting strangely with the

orange glare of the lamps. Erica still leant
her head against the window-frame, still looked
out dreamily at the Firdale life, while the soft
night wind lightly lifted the hair from her forehead,
and seemed to lull the pain at her heart.

It was only in accordance with the general
peacefulness when by-and-by her father crossed
the room, looking more like himself than he had
done for some days.

I am better, Eric,^ he said, cheerfully — ' better
already. It is just the consciousness that
there is nothing that need be done. I feel as if
1 should sleep to-night.' He looked out at the
moon-lit street. ' What a perfect night it is !'
he exclaimed. 'AVhat do you say, little one,
shall we drive over to this rural retreat now ?
The good folks were told to have everything
ready, and they can hardly lock up before
ten.'

She was so glad to see him take an interest
in anything, and so greatly relieved by his recovery
of strength and spirits, that she gladly
fell-in with the plan, and before long they set
off in one of the wa2:onettes belonjO'ins; to the
Shrub Inn.'

Firdale wound its long street of red-roofed
houses along a sheltered valley in between
fir-crowned heights ; beyond the town lay
rich, fertile-looking meadows and a Evincing
river bordered by pollard willows. Looking
across these meadows, one could see the massive
tower of the church, its white pinnacles
standing out sharp and clear in the moonlight.
As Eaeburn and Erica crossed the bridge leading
out of the town, the clock in the tower
struck nine, and the old chimes began to play
the tune which every three hours fell on the
ears of the inhabitants of Firdale.

" Life let us cherish," ' said Raeburn, with a
smile. ' A good omen for us, little one.'

And whether it was the mere fact that he
looked so much more cheerful already, or
whether the dear old tune, with its resolute
good-humour and determination to make the
best of things, acted upon Erica's sensitive nature,
it would be hard to say, but she somehow
shook off all her cares, and enjoyed the novelty
of the moonlight drive like a child. Before
long they were among the fir-trees, driving
along a sandy road, the sweet night air laden

Avitli trio delicious scent of pine needles, and to
the over-worked Londoners in itself the most
delicious refreshment. All at once Raebum
ordered the driver to stop, and, getting out,
stooped down by the roadside.

What is it V asked Erica.

Heather !' he exclaimed, tearing it up hj
handfuls and returning to the carriage laden.
There ! shut your eyes and bury your face in
that, and you can almost fancy you're on a
Scottish mountain. Brian deserves anything
for sending us to the land of heather ; it makes
me feel like a boy again !'

The three miles were all too short to please
them ; but at last they reached the little village
of Millford, and were set down at a compact-looking,
white house known as ' Under the Oak.'

That direction is charming,' said Raeburn,
laughing; * imagine your business letters sent
from the JDaili/ Review office to " Miss Raeburn,
Under the Oak, Millford !" They'll think we're
living in a tent. You'll be nicknamed Deborah !'

It was not until the next morning that they
fully understood the appropriateness of the
direction. The little white house had been built

close to the grand old oak. which was the pride
of Millford. It was indeed a giant of its kind ;
there was something wonderfully fine about its
vigorous spread of branches and its enormous
girth. Close by was a peaceful-looking river,,
flowing between green banks fringed with
willow and mares tail and pink river-herb. The
house itself had a nice little garden, gay with
geraniums and gladiolus, and bounded by a
hedge of sunflowers which would have gladdened
the heart of an assthete. AU was pure,
fresh, cleanly, and perfectly quiet. From the
windows nothing was to be seen except the
village green with its flocks of geese and its
tall sign-post; the river describing a sort of
horse-shoe curve round it, and spanned by two
picturesque bridges. In the distance was a
small church and a little cluster of houses, the
'village' being completed by a blacksmith's
forge and a post-office. To this latter place
they had to pay a speedy visit for, much to
Auburn's amusement. Erica had forgotten to
bring any ink.

To think that a writer in the Daily Review
should forget such a necessary of life !' he said

VOL. III. Q

smiling. ' One would think you were your
little " Cartesian-well " cousin instead of a
journalist !'

However, the post-office was capable of supplying
almost anything likely to be needed in the
depths of the country ; you could purchase there
bread, cakes, groceries, hob-nailed boots, paper,
ink, and most delectable toffee !

The relief of the country quiet was unlike
anything which Erica had known before. There
was, indeed, at first a good deal of anxiety
about her father. His acquiescence in idleness,
his perfect readiness to spend whole days without
even opening a book, proved the seriousness
of his condition. For the first week he was
more completely prostrated than she had ever
known him to be. He would spend whole days
on the river, too tired even to speak, or would
drag himself as far as the neighbouring wood and
stretch himself at full length under the trees,
while she sat by sketching or visiting. But
Brian was satisfied with his improvement, when
he came down on one of his periodical visits,
and set Erica's mind at rest about him.

Your father has such a wonderful constitution,'

lie said, as they paced to and fro in the
little garden. * I should not be sni-prised if, in a
couple of months, he is as strong as ever ;
though most men would probably feel such an
overstrain to the end of their days.'

After that, the time at Millford vas pure
happiness. Erica learnt to love every inch of
that lovely neighbourhood, from the hill of
Rooksbury, with its fir-clad heights, to Trenchant
Lake nestled doAvn among the surrounding
heath hills. In after-years she liked to recall
all those peaceful days, days when time had
ceased to exist — at any rate, as an element of
friction in life. There was no hurrying here,
and the recollection of it afterwards was a perpetual
happiness. The quiet river where they
had one day seen an otter, a marked event in
their uneventful days ; the farm with its red
gables and its crowd of gobbling turkeys ; the
sweet-smelling fir groves with their sandy paths ;
and their own particular wood where beeches,
oaks, and silvery birch-trees were intermingled,
with here and there a tall pine sometimes stately
and erect, sometimes blown aslant by the wind.

Here the winding paths were bordered with

q2

golden-brown moss, and sheltered by a tangled
growth of bracken and bramble with now and
then a little crimp of heather or a patch of blue
harebells. Every nook of that place grew
familiar to them and had its special associations.
There was the shady part under the beeches
where they spent the hot days, and this was
always associated with fragments of ' Macbeth ^
and ' Julius Caesar.' There was the cosy nook
on the fir hill where in cool September they had
read volume after volume of Walter Scott,
Kaebm-n not being allowed to have an}i:hingbut
light literature, and caring too little for ' society '
novels to listen to them even now. There was
the prettiest part of all down below the bit of
sandy cliff riddled with nest holes by the sand-martins
; here they discovered a little spring,
the natural basin scooped out in the rock, festooned
with ivy and thickly coated with the
pretty green liverwort. Never surely was water
so cold and clear as that which flowed into the
basin with its ground of white sand, and overflowed
into a little trickling stream ; while in the
distance was heard the roar of the river as it
fell into a small waterfall. There was the ford

from which the place was named, and which
Erica associated with a long happy day when
Brian had come down to see her father. She
remembered how they had watched the carts
and horses splashing through the clear water,
going in muddy on one side and coming out
clean on the other. She had just listened in
silence to the talk between Brian and her
father, which happened to turn on Donovan
Farrant.

They discussed the effect of early education
-and surroundings upon the generality of men,
and Raeburn, while prophesying great things
for Donovan's future, and hoping that he might
live to see his first Budget, rather surprised
them both by what he said about his tolerably
well-known early life. He was a man who
found it very difficult to make allowances for
temptations he had never felt, he was convinced
that under Donovan's circumstances he
should have acted very differently, and he
made the common mistake v f judging others by
himself. His ruggedly honest nature and stern
sense of justice could not get over those past
failings. However, this opinion about the past

did not interfere with his present hldng of the
man. He Heed him much ; and when, towards
the end of their six weeks' stay at Millford,
Donovan indeed them to Oakdene, he was
really pleased to accept the invitation. He
hoped to be well enough to speak at an
important political meeting at Ashborongh
about the middle of October, and as Ash-borough
was not far from Oakdene, Donovan
wrote to propose a visit there en route.

At length the last evening came. Auburn
and Erica climbed Eooksbury for the last time,
and in the cool of the evening walked slowly
home.

'I have always dreaded old age,' he said.
But I shall dread it no more. This has been a
foretaste of the autumn of life, and it has been
very peaceful. I don't see why the winter should
not be the same, if I have you nth me, little
one.'

« You'll have me as long as I am alive,' she
said, giving his strong hand a little loving
squeeze.

Truth to tell; said Raeburn, ' I thought a
few weeks ago that it would be a case of —

Here lies Luke Raeburn, who died of litigation
!" But, after all, to be able to work to the
last is the happiest lot. 'Tis an enviable thing
to die in harness.'

They were walking up a hill, a sort of ravine
with steep high banks on either side, and
stately pines stretching their blue-green foliage
up against the evening sky. A red glow of
sunset made the dark stems look like fiery pillars,
and presently as they reached the brow of
the hill the great crimson globe was revealed to
them. They both stood in perfect silence
watching till it sank below the horizon.

And a great peace filled Erica's heart, though
at one time her father's wish would have made
her sad and apprehensive. In former times
she had set her whole heart on his learning
before death that he was teaching error. Now
she had learnt to add to ' Thy will be done,' the
clause which it takes some of us a lifetime
to learn to say, ' Not my will.'

CHAPTER IX.

Thorough.

There's a brave fellow ! There's a man of pluck !
A man who's not afraid to say his say,
Though a whole town's against him.

Longfellow.

A man's love is the measure of his fitness for good or bad
company here or elsewhere.

Oliver Wendell Holmes.

The week at Oakclene proved in every way a
success ; Raeburn liked his host heartily, and the
whole atmosphere of the house was a revelation
to him. The last morning there had been a
little clouded, for news had reached them of a
terrible colliery accident in the north of England.
the calamity had a special gloom about it, for
it might very easily have been prevented, the

owners having long known that the mme was
unsafe.

I must say it is a Kettle hard to see how such
a horrible sin as carelessness of the lives of
human beings can ever bring about the greater
good which we believe evil to do,' said Erica,
as she took her last walk in-the wood with
Donovan.

'Tis hard to see at the time,' he replied. ' But
I am convinced that it is so. The sin is never
good, never right ; but when men will sin, then
the result of the sin, however frightful, brings
about more good than the perseverance in sin
with no catastrophe would have done. A longer
deferred good, of course, than the good which
would have resulted by adhering from the first
to the right, and so far inferior.'

Of course,' said Erica, ' I can see that a certain
amount of immediate good may result from
this disaster. It Avill make the owners of other
mines more careful.'

And what of the hundred unseen workings
that will result from it V said Donovan, smiling.
In the first shock of horror one cannot even
glimpse the larger view, but later on '

He paused for a minute ; they were down in
the valley close to the little church ; he opened
the gate, and led the way to a bench under the
great yew-tree. Sitting here, they could seethe
recumbent white cross, with its ever fresh
crown of white flowers. Erica knew something
of the story it told.

Shall I tell you what turned me from an
anti-theist to an atheist T said Donovan. ' It was
the horror of knowing that a little child's life
had been ruined by carelessness. I had been
taught to believe in a terrific phantom, who was
severely just ; but when it seemed that the one
quality of justice was gone, then I took refuge
in the conviction that there could be no God at
all. That was a refuge for the time, for it is
better to believe in no God than to believe in an
immoral God, and it was long years before a
better refuge found me. Yet, looking back now
over these seven and twenty years, I see how
that one little child's suffering has influenced
countless lives ! how it was just the most beautiful
thing that could have happened to her !'

Erica did not speak for a moment, she read
half-dreamily the words engraved on the tombstone.

Nearly sixteen years since that short,
uneventful life had passed into the Unseen, and
yet little Dot was at this moment influencing
the world's history !

She was quite cheerful again as they Walked
home, and, indeed, her relief about her father's
recovery was so great that she could not be unhappy
for long about anything. They found
Auburn on the terrace with Ralph and Dolly
at his heels, and the two-year-old baby,
who went by the name of ' Pickle,' on his
shoulder.

I shall quite miss these barnes,' he said, as
Donovan joined him.

Gee up, horsey ! Gee up !' shouted Pickle,
from his lofty perch.

'And oh daddy, may we go into Gleyshot
wiv you V said Dolly, coaxingly. * Ehca's
father's going to give me a play-cat.'

'And me a whip,' interposed Ralph. 'We
may come with you, father, mayn't v\^e V

Oh ! yes,' said Donovan, smiling, ' if Mr. Raeburn
doesn't mind a crowded carriage.'

Eiica had gone into the house.'

I don't know how to let you go,' said

Gladys. 'We have so much enjoyed ha^^ng
you. I think you had much better stay here till
Monday, and leave those two to take care of
themselves at Ashborough.'

Oh, no,' said Erica, smiling, ' that would
never do ! You don't realise what an event
this is to me. It is the first time father has
spoken since his illness. Besides, I have not yet
quite learnt to think him well enough to look
after himself, though of course he is getting
quite strong again.'

'Well, since you will go, come and choose a
book for your journey,' said Gladys.

Oh, I should like that,' said Erica, ' a nice,
homes sort of book, please, where the people
lived in Arcadia and never heard of law-courts
!'

Early in the afternoon they drove to Grey-shot,
stopping first of all at the toy-shop. Raeburn,
who was in excellent spirits, fully entered
into the difficulties of Dolly's choice. At
length a huge toy-cat was produced.

Oh, I should like that one !' said Dolly, clapping
her hands, ' what a 'enormous, great big cat
it is !'

I shouldn't have known what it was meant
for,' said Raeburn, scrutinizing the rather shapeless
furry quadruped. 'How is it that you
can't make them more like cats than this V

I don't know, sir, how it is,' said the shop-woman
; ' we get very good dogs, and rabbits,
and donkeys, but they don't seem to have attained
to the making of cats.'

This view of the matter so tickled Raeburn
that he left Ralph and Dolly to see the ' 'enormous
great big cat ' wrapped up, and went out
of the shop laughing.

But just outside, a haggard, wild-looking man
came up to him, and began to address him in
excited tones.

You are that vile atheist, Luke Raeburn !""
he cried, ' oh, I know you well enough. I tell
you, you have lost my son's soul ; do you hear,
wretched infidel, you destroyed my son's soul !
His guilt is upon you ! And I will have vengeance
! vengeance !'

My friend,' said Raeburn, quietly, ' supposing
your son had what you call a soul, do you
think that I, a man, should be able to destroy
its

You have made him what you are yourself,'
cried the man, ' an accursed infidel, an incarnate
deal ! but I tell you I will have vengeance,
vengeance !'

Have the goodness not to come so near my
daughter,' said Raeburn ; for the man was pushing
up roughly against Erica, who had just
come out of the shop. The words were spoken
in such an authoritative manner that the man
shrank back awed, and in another minute the
children had rejoined them, and they drove off
to the station.

What was that man saying V asked Erica.

'apparently his son has become a Secularist,
and he means to revenge himself on me,' said
Eaeburn. ' If it wouldn't have lost me this train I
would have given him in charge for using
threatening language. But no doubt the poor
fellow was half-witted.'

Donovan had walked on to the station and so
had missed this incident, and though for the
time it saddened Erica, yet she speedily forgot
it in talking to the children. The arrival at
Ashborough, too, was exciting, and she was so

delighted to see her father once more in the
enjoyment of full health and strength that she
could not long be disquieted about anything
else. It was a great happiness to her to
hear him speak upon any subject on which
they were agreed, and his reception that
evening at the Ashborough Town Hall was
certainly a most magnificent one. The ringing
cheers made the tears start to her eyes.
The people had been roused by his late illness,
and though many of them disliked his
theological views, they felt that in political
matters he was a man whom they could very
ill spare. His speech was a remarkably powerful
one, and calculated to do great good. Erica's
spirits rose to then very highest pitch, and as
they went back together to their hotel, she
kept both Raeburn and Donovan in fits of
laughter. It was long months since her father
had seen her so brilliant and witty.

You are " fey," little one,' he said. ' I
prophesy a headache for you tomorrow.'

And the prophecy came true, for Erica awoke
the next morning with a sense of miserable

oppression. The day, too, was grey and dreary-looking,
it seemed like a different world altogether.
Raebnrn was none the worse for his
exertions ; he took a quiet day, however, went
for a walk with Donovan in the afternoon, and
set off in good time for his evening lecture. It
was Sunday evening. Erica was going to church
with Donovan, and had her walking things on,
when her father looked into the room to say
good-bye.

What, going out?' he said. ' Yon don't look
fit for it, Eric.'

Oh !' she said, ' it is no use to give way to
this sort of headache; it's only one's wretched
nerves.'

Well, take care of yourself,' he said, kissing
her. ' I believe you are worn out ^vith all these
weeks of attendance on a cantankerous old
father.*

She laughed and brightened up, going outwith
him to the head of the stairs, and returning
to watch him from the window. Just as he
left the door of the hotel, a small child fell face
downwards on the pavement upon the opposite

side of the road, and began to cry bitterly.
Raeburn crossed over and picked up the small
elf; they could hear him saying, * There, there,,
more frightened than hurt, I think,' as he brushed
the dust from the little thing's clothes.

How exactly lille father !' said Erica, smiling;
he never would let us think ourselves hurt. I
believe it is thanks to him that Tom has grownup
such a Stoic, and that I'm not a very lachrymose
sort of being.'

A little later they started for church; but
towards the end of the Psalms Donovan felt a
touch on his arm. He turned to Erica; she
was as white as death, and with a strange,,
glassy look in her eyes.

Come,' she said, in a hoarse whisper, ' come
out with me.'

He thought she felt faint, but she walked
steadily down the aisle. When they were outside,
she grasped his arm, and seemed to make
a great effort to speak naturally.

'Forgive me for disturbing you,' she said;
but I have such a dreadful feeling that something
is going to happen. 1 feel that I must
get to my father.'

VOL. III. R

Donovan thought that she was probably
labouring under a delusion. He knew that she
was always very anxious about her father, and
that Ashborough, owing to various memories,
was exactly the place where this anxiety Avould
be likely to weigh upon her. He thought, too,
that Raeburn was very likely right, and that
she Alas rather overdone by the strain of those
long weeks of solitary attendance. But he was
much too wise to attempt to reason away her
fears ; he knew that nothing but her father's
presence would set her at rest, and they walked
as fast as they could to the Town Hall He
was just turning down a street which led into
the High Street, when Erica drew him instead
in the direction of a narrow by-away.

'Down here,' she said, walking straight on,
as though she held some guiding clue in her
hand.

He was astonished, as she could not possibly
have been in this part of the town before. Moreover,
her whole bearing was very strange ; she
was still pale and trembling, and her unloved
hands felt as cold as ice, while, although he had

-given her his arm, he felt all the time that she
'was leading him.

At length a sound of many voices was heard
in the distance. Donovan felt a sort of thrill
pass through the hand that rested on his arm,
and Erica began to walk more quickly than
ever. A minute more, and the little by-way
led them out into the market-place. It was
lighted with the electric light, and to-night the
light was concentrated at one end, the end at
which stood the Town Hall. Instinctively
Donovan's eyes were turned at once towards
that brightest point, and also towards the sound,
the subdued roar of the multitude which they
had heard on their way. There was another
sound, too — a man's ringing voice, a stentorian
voice which reached them clearly even at that
distance. Raeburn stood alone, facing an
angry, tumultuous throng, with his back to the
closed door of the building, and his tawny eyes
scanning the mass of hostile faces below.

Every Englishman has a right to freedom
of speech. You shall not rob me or any other
man of a right. I have fought for this all my

life, and I will fight as long as I've breath
That shall not be long !' shouted another
speaker. ' Forward, brothers ! Down nth the
infidel I Vengeance! vengeance!'

The haggard, wild-looking man who had
addressed Raebnrn the day before at Greyshot
now sprang forward ; there was a surging
movement in the crowd like wind in a cornfield.
Donovan and Erica, hurrying forward,,
saw Raebnrn surrounded on every side, forced
away from the door, and at length half-stunned
by a heavy blow from the fanatical leader; then,
taken thus at a disadvantage, he was pushed
backwards. They saw him fall heavily down
the stone steps.

With a low cry, Erica rushed towards him,,
breaking away from Donovan, and forcing a
way through that rough crowd as if by
magic. Donovan, though so much taller and
stronger, was longer in reaching the foot of the
steps, and when at length he had pushed his
way through the thickest part of the throng,
he was hindered ; for the haggard-looking man
who had been the ringleader in the assault ran

into his very arms. He was evidently struck
with horror at the result of his mad enterprise,
and now meditated flight. But Donovan stopped
him.

Yon inst come with me, my friend,' he
exclaimed, seizing the fanatic by the collar.

Nor did he pause till he had handed him
over to a policeman. Then once more he
forced a passage through the hushed crowd, and
at last reached the foot of the steps. He
found Erica on the ground, with her father's
head raised on her knee. He Alas perfectly
unconscious, but it seemed as if his spirit
and energy had been transmitted to his
child. Erica was giving orders so clearly and
authoritatively that Donovan could only marvel
at her strength and composure.

Stand back I' she was saying, as he approached.
' How can he come-to while you
are shutting out the air ? Some one go quickly,
and fetch a door or a litter. You go, and you.'
She indicated two of the more respectable-looking
men, and they at once obeyed her. She
looked relieved to see Donovan.

Won't you go inside, and speak to the people
V she said. ' I have sent for a doctor. If
some one doesn't go soon, they will come out,
and then there might be a riot. Tell them, if
they have any feeling for my father, to separate
quietly. Don't let them all out upon these
people ; there is sure to be fighting if they
meet.

Donovan could not bear to leave her in such
a position, but just then a doctor came up, and
the police began to drive back the crowd ; and,
since the people were rather awed by what
had happened, they dispersed meekly enough.
Donovan went into the Town Hall then, and
gradually learnt what had taken place. It
seemed that, soon after the beginning of Raeburn's
lecture, a large crowd had gathered outside,
headed by a man named Drosser, a street
preacher, well known in Ashborough and the
neighbourhood. This crowd had stormed the
doors of the hall, and had created such an
uproar that it was impossible to proceed with
the lecture. The doors had been quite unequal
to the immense pressure from without, and Rae-bum,

foreseeing that they would give way,
and knowing that, if the insurgents met his
audience, there would be serious risk to the
Eves of many, had insisted on trying to dismiss
the crowd without, or, at any rate, to secure
some sort of order. Several had offered to go
with him, bnt he had begged the audience to
keep perfectly still, and had gone out alone—
the crowd being so astonished by this unexpected
move that they fell back for a moment
before him. Apparently his plan would have
succeeded very well had it not been for Dresser's
deliberate assault. He had gained a hearing
from the people, and would probably have
dispersed them had he not been borne down by
brute force.

It was no easy task to tell the audience what
had happened ; but Donovan was popular and
greatly respected, and, thanks to his tact, their
wrath, though very great, was restrained. In
fact, Raeburn was so well known to disapprove
of any sort of violence that Donovan's appeal
to them to preserve order for his sake met with
a deep, suppressed murmur of assent. When

all was safe, he hurried back to the hotel, where
they were glad enough of his services. Rae-born
had recovered his senses for a minute, but
only to sink almost immediately into another
swoon. For many hours this went on ; he would
partly revive, even speak a few words, and
then sink back once more. Every time Erica
thought it would end in death, nor could she
gather comfort from the looks of either of the
doctors or of Donovan.

This is not the first time I've been knocked
down and trampled on,' said Raeburn, faintly,
in one of his intervals of consciousness, ' but it
will be the last time.'

And though the words were spoken with a
touch of his native humour, and might have
borne more than one interpretation, yet they
answered painfully to the conviction which lay
deep down in Erica's heart.

They let me send a telegram from the 
Times office,' said Donovan to her, in
one of the momentary pauses. ' I have sent
for your cousin and Mrs. Craigie, and for
Brian.'

For the first time Erica's outward composure
gave way. Her mouth began to quiver and her
eyes to fill.

Oh ! thank you,' she said, and there was
something in her voice that went to Donovan's
heart.

CHAPTER X.

MORS Janus Vit.

Therefore to whom turn I but to Thee, the ineffable Name ?

Builder and maker Thou, of houses not made with hands !

What, have fear of change from Thee who art ever the

same ?

Doubt that Thy power can fill the heart that Thy po^^■er

expands ?

And what is our failure here but a triumph's evidence
For the fulness of the days ? Have we withered or
agonised ?
Why else was the pause prolonged but that singing might
issue thence ?
Why rushed the discords in, but that harmony should be
prized ?

R. Browning.

Early on the Monday morning, three anxious-looking
travellers arrived by the first train
from London, and drove as fast as might be to

the Park Hotel at AshboroiTo:h. They were evidently
expected, for the mordent then* cab
stopped, a door on one of the upper floors was
opened, and some one ran quickly down the
stairs to meet them.

Is he better V asked i\unt Jean.

Erica shook her head, and, indeed, her face
told them much more than the brief words of
the telegram. She was deathly Avhite, and had
that weighed-down look which people wear
when they have watched all night beside one
who is hovering between life and death. She
seemed to recover herself a little as her hand
rested for a moment in Brian's.

He has been asking for you,' she said. ' Do
go to him. The faintness has quite passed off,
and they say inflammation has set in ; he is in
frightful pain.'

Her lips grew a shade whiter as she spoke,
and, with an effort, she seemed to turn away
from some horrible recollection.

'There is some breakfast ready for you inhere,'
she said to her aunt. ' You must have
something before you see him. Oh, I am so
glad you have come, auntie !'

Aunt Jean kissed her, and cried a little ; trouble
always brought these taro together, however
much they disagreed at other times. Tom did
not say a word, but began to cut a loaf to
pieces, as though they had the very largest
appetites ; the great pile of slices lay untouched
on the trencher, but the cutting had served its
purpose of a relief to his pent-up feelings.

Later on there was a consultation of doctors ;
their verdict was, perhaps, a little more hopeful
than Erica lead dared to expect. Her father had
received a fearful internal injury, and was in the
greatest danger, but there was still a chance
that he might recover, it was just possible ; and
knowing how his constitution had rallied when
everyone had thought him dying three years
before, she grew very hopeful. Without hope
she could hardly have got through those days,
for the suffering was terrible. She hardly knew
which she dreaded most, the nights of fever and
delirium, when groans of anguish came from
the writhing lips, or the days with their clear
consciousness, when her father never uttered a
word of complaint, but just silently endured the

torture, replying always, if questioned as to the
pain, ' It's bearable.'

His great strength and vigour made it seem
all the more piteous that he should now belying
in the very extremity of suffering, unable
to bear even the weight of the bed-clothes. But
all through that weary time his fortitude never
gave way, and the vein of humour which had
stood him in such good stead all his life did not
fail him even now. On the Monday, when he
was suffering torments, they tried the application
of leeches. One leech escaped, and they
had a great hunt for it, Eaeburn astonishing
them all by coming out with one of his quaint
flashes of wit, and positively making them laugh
in spite of their anxiety and sorrow.

The weary days changed on, the torture gi-ew
worse, opium failed to deaden the pain, and
sleep, except in the very briefest snatches, was
impossible. But at last, on the Thursday morning,
a change set in, the suffering became less
intense ; they knew, however, that it was only
because the end was drawing near, and the life-energy
failing.

For the second time, Sir John Larkom came
down from London to see the patient, but everyone
knew that there was nothing to be done.
Even Erica began to understand that the time
left was to be measured only by hours. She
learnt it in a feww^ords which Sir John Larkom
said to Donovan on the stairs. She was in her
own room with the door partly open, eagerly
waiting for permission to go back to her
father.

Oh, it's all up with the poor fellow,' she
heard the London doctor say. 'A wonderful
constitution ; most men would not have held
out so long.'

At the time the words did not convey any
very clear meaning to Erica ; she felt no very
sharp pang as she repeated the sentence to herself;
there was only a curious numb feeling at
her heart, and a sort of dull consciousness that
she must move, must get away somewhere, do
something active. It was at first almost a relief
to her when Donovan returned and knocked
-at her door.

I am afraid we ought to come to the court,'

he said. ' They will, I am sure, take your evidence
as quickly as possible.'

She remembered the that the man Drosser
was to be brought up before the magistrates
that morning ; she and Donovan had to appear
as witnesses of the assault. she went into her
father's room before she started ; he had specially
asked to see her. He was quite clear-minded
and calm, and began to speak in a
voice which, though weak and low, had the old
musical ring about it.

'You are going to give evidence, Eric,' he
said, holding her hand in his. 'Now, I don't
forgive that fellow for having robbed me of
life, but one must be just even to one's foes.
They will ask you if you ever saw Drosser
before ; you will have to tell them of that scene
at Greyshot, and you must be sure to say that
1 said, as we drove off, " No doubt the poor
fellow is half-witted." Those were my words,
do you remember?'

Yes,' she said, repeating the words after him
at his request, ' I remember quite well.'

Those words may affect Dresser's case very

much, and I don't wish any man to swing forme
— I have always disapproved of the death-penalty.
Probably, though, it will be brought
in as manslaughter — yes, almost certainly.
There — go, my child, and come back to me as
soon as you can.'

But the examination proved too much for
Erica's physical powers ; she was greatly exhausted
by the terrible strain of the long days
and nights of nursing, and when she found herself
in a hot and crowded court, pitilessly stared
at, confronted by the man who was in fact her
father's murderer, and closely questioned by the
magistrate about all the details of that Sunday
evening, her over-tasked strength gave way
suddenly.

She had told clearly and distinctly about
the meeting at Greyshot, and had stated positively
that in the Ashborough market-place
she had seen Drosser give her father a heavy
blot, and then push him down the Town Hall
steps.

Can you recollect whether others pushed
your father at the same time V asked the magistrate.

' Don't answer liumedly ; this is an
important matter.'

All at once the whole scene came vividly
before Erica — the huge crowd, the glare of the
lights, her father standing straight and tall, as
she should never see him again, his thick white
hair stared by the wind, his whole attitude that
of indignant protest ; then the haggard face
of the fanatic, the surging movement in the
black mass of people, and that awful struggle
and fall. Was it he who was falling ? If so,
she was surely with him, falling doAvn, down,
endlessly doAvn.

There was a sudden stir and commotion in
the court, a murmur of pity, for Luke Raeburn's
daughter had fallen back senseless.

When she came to herself, she was lying on
the floor of an office-like room, With her head
on Mrs. MacNaughton's lap. Brian was bending
over her, chafing her hands. A clock in the
building struck one, and the sound seemed to
recall things to her mind. She started up.

Oh r she cried, ' why am I not With my
father ? Where have you taken me to V

VOL. III. S

It is all right, deai;ji^said Mrs. MacNaugliton,
soothingly, * you shall come back directly yon
are well enough.'

I remember it all now,' she said, ' did I finish ?
Must I go back there V

It was some relief to know that Donovan
had been able to supplement her evidence, and
that the examination was in fact over, Drosser
having been remanded for a week. She insisted
on going back to the hotel at once, and
spent the whole of the afternoon and evening
with her father. He was not in great pain now
but very restless, and growing weaker every
hour. He was able, however, to see several of
his friends, and though the farewells evidently
tried him, he would not refuse to see those who
had come hundreds of miles for that last
glimpse.

What does it matter if I am exhausted V he
said, when some one remonstrated with him.
It will make no difference at all as far as I am
concerned, and it will be a happiness to them
for the rest of their lives. Besides, I shall not
die to-day, perhaps not tomorrow ; depend upon
it, I shall die hard.'

They persuaded Erica to rest for the first
part of the night. She left Tom and Brian to
watch, and went to her room, making them
promise to call her if there were any signs of
change.

At last the full realisation had come to her ;
ihongh she hated leaving ber father, it was
yet a sort of relief to get away into the
dark, to be able to give way for a moment.


Anything bnt this, oh, God,' she sobbed, ' anything
but this I'

All else would have been easy enough to
bear, but that he should be killed by the violence
and bigotry of one who at any rate called
himself a Christian, this seemed to her not
tolerable. The hope of years had received its
deathblow, the life she most loved was sinking
away in darkness, the work Which she had so
bravely taken as her life-work was all but over,
and she had failed. Yes, in spite of all her
efforts, all her longings, all her love, she
had failed, or at any rate apparently failed,
and in moments of great agony we do not —

s2

iu fact cannot — distinguish between the real
and the apparent. Christ Himself could not doit.


She did not dare to let her sobs rise, for it was
one of the trials of that time that they were not
in their own home, but in a busy hotel where
the partitions were thin and every sound could •
be heard in the adjoining rooms. Moreover
Aunt Jean was sleeping with her, and must not
be disturbed. But as she lay on the floor trying
to stifle the restrained sobs which shook
her from head to foot, trying to check the bitter
tears which would come, her thoughts were
somehow lifted quite away from the present ;
strange little memories of her childish days
returned to her, days when her father had been
to her the living incarnation of all that was
noble and good. Often it is not the great
events of a child's life which are so vividly
remembered; memory seems to be strangely
capricious, and will single out some special word
or deed, some trifling sign of love, which has
stamped itself indelibly upon the brain to bear
its golden harvest of responding love through a

lifetime. Vividly there came back to her now
the eager happiness with which she had awaited
a long-promised treat, as a little thing of seven
years old. Her father was to take her on some
special excursion, she had long ago forgotten
what the particular occasion was, only it was
something that could come but once, the days
lost, the treat would be lost. But the evening
before, when she was on the very tip-toe of
expectation, a celebrated action for libel had
come to an end much sooner than was expected,
and when her father returned in the evening
he had to tell her that his case was to come on
the next day, and that he could not possibly
take her. Even now she could recall the bitterness
of the disappointment, but not so vividly
as the look in her father's face as he lifted her
off the floor where she had thrown herself in
the abandonment of her grief. He had not
said a Avoid then about the enormity of crying,
he had just held her closely in his arms, feeling
the disappointment a thousand times more than
she felt it herself, and fully realising that the
loss of such a long-looked-for happiness was to a

child what the loss of thousands of pounds
would be to a man. He had been patient
with her, though she had entirely failed to see
why he could not put off the case just for that
day!

You'll understand one day, little one,' he had
said, * and be glad that you have had your share
of pain in a day that ^vl[\ advance the cause of
liberty.'

She remembered protesting that that was
impossible, that she should always be miserable !
at which he had only smiled.

Then it came to Erica that the life upon earth
was, after all, as compared with the eternal life,
what the day is in the life of a child. It seemed
everything at the time, but was in truth such a
fragment. And as she lay there — in the immeasurably
greater agony of later life, once
more sobbing, ' I had hoped, I had planned, this
is more than I can bear !' — a Comforter infinitely
greater, a Father whose love was infinitely
stronger, drew her so near that the word ' near '
was but a mockery, and told her, as the earthly
father had told her with such perfect truth,

One day von vnll understand, child, one day
yon will be glad to have shared the pain I'

In the next room there was for some time
quiet. Poor Tom, heavy with grief and weariness,
fell asleep beside the fire : Raebnrn was
for the most part very still, as if wrapped in
thought. At length a heavy sigh made Brian
ask if he were in pain.

Pain of mind,' he said, ' not of body. Don't
misunderstand me,' he said, after a pause, with
the nati-al fear lest Brian should fancy his
secularism failed him at the near approach of
death. 'For myself I am content; I have had a
very full life, and I have tried always — yes, I
think I may say always — to work entirely for
the good of-humanity. But I am wretched
about Erica. I do not see how the home can bea
very happy one for her when I am gone.'

For a moment Brian hesitated ; but it seemed
to him, when he thought out the matter, that a
father so loving as Raebnrn would feel no
jealousy at the thought that the love he had
deemed exclusively his own might, after all,,
have been given to another.

*I do not know whether I am right to tell
yon,' he said. ' Would it make you happier to
know that I love Erica — that I have loved her
for nearly nine years V

Raebnrn gave an ejaculation of astonishment.
There was a long silence ; for, the idea once
suggested to him, he began to see what a likely
thing it was, and to wonder that he had not
thought of it before.

I think you are well suited to each other,' he
said at last. ' Now I understand your visit to
Florence. AVhat took you away again so suddenly?'


Brian told him all about the day at Fiesole.
He seemed greatly touched ; all the little proofs
and coincidences which had never struck him at
the time were so perfectly plain now. They
were still discussing it when, at about five
o'clock, Erica returned. She was pale and sad,
but the worn, harassed, miserable look had quite
gone. It was a strange time and place for a
betrothal.

Brian has been telling me about the day at
Fiesole,' said Raeburn, letting his weak, nerveless

hands play about in her han as she knelt
beside the bed. ' You have been a leal bairn tome,
Eric ; I don't think I could have spared yon
then, even though Brian so well deserved yon.
But now it makes me very happy to leave you
to him ; it takes away my only care.'

Erica had coloured faintly, but there was an
absence of responsiveness in her manner which
troubled Raeburn.

*You do still feel as you did at Fiesole ?' he
asked. ' You are sure of your own mind ? You
think you will be happy V

I love Brian,' she said, in a low voice. ' But,
oh, I can't think now about being happy I' She
broke ofi" suddenly and hid her face in the bedclothes.


There Alas silence in the room. In a minute
she raised herself, and turned to Brian, who
stood beside her.

You will understand,' she said, looking right
into his eyes. ' There is only one thing that I
can feel just now. You do understand, I know.'

AYith a sudden impulse, she threw her arms
roimd this neck and kissed him.

And Brian did understand. He knew, too,
that she wanted to have her father to herself.
Even in the very fulfilment of his desire, he
was obliged to stand aside, obliged even yet to
be patient. Never surely had an impulsive,
impetuous man a longer training I

When he had gone, Raeburn talked for sometime
of Erica's future, talked for so long, indeed,
that she grew .impatient. How trifling now
seemed the sacrifice she had made at Fiesole to
which he kept on referring I

Oil, why do you waste the time in talking of
me !' she said at last.

• Why !' he said, smiling. * Because you are
my bairn — of what else should I speak or
think ? For myself, I am very content, dear,
though I should have liked a few more years of
work. It was not to be, you see ; and, in the
end, no doubt this will work good to the cause
of ' he broke off, unwilling to pain her.

Ah, child !' he said, after a pause, * how
miserable you and I might have been for these
two years if we had not loved each other !
You are not to think, little one, that I have

not knoAvu what your wishes have been for me.
You, and Brian, and Osmond, and of lite that
noble fellow Farrant, have often made me see
that Christianity need not necessarily warp the
intellect and cripple the life. I believe that for
yon, and such as you, the system is not rooted
in selfishness. But, dear, you are but the exceptions,
the rare exceptions ! I know that you
have wished with all your heart that I should
come to think as you do, while I have been
wishing you back into the ranks of secularism.
Well ! it wasn't to be. We each of us lost our
wish. But there is this left, that we each know
the other to be honest ; each deem it a case of
honest mistake. I've felt that all along. We've
a common love of truth, and a common love
of humanity I Oh, little son Eric ! spite of all
the creeds, we are very near to each other !'

'Very near,' she whispered. And words
which Charles Osmond had spoken years ago
returned to her memory. ' I think death will
be your gate of life ! You will wake up, and
exclaim, " Who'd have thought it !" '

After all, death would, in a sense, make them

yet nearer ! But hnm?ai nature is weak, and it
is hard for us to realise the Unseen ! She could
not then feel that it was anything but hard,
bitter, heart-breaking, that he should be leaving
her in this way.

The pain had now almost entirely ceased,
and Raeburn, though very restless, was better
able to talk than on the previous day. He
asked for the first time what was passing in
the world, showed special interest in the accounts
of the late colliery accident, and was
greatly touched by the gallant efforts of the
rescuers, who had to some extent been successful.
He insisted, too, on hearing what the
various papers had to say about his own case,
listening sometimes with a quiet smile, sometimes
nth a gleam of anger in his eyes. After
a very abusive article, which he had specially
desired to hear, he leant back with an air of
weariness.

I'm rather tired of this sort of thing !' he
said, with a sigh. ' AVhat will the Herald do
when it no longer has me to abuse T

Of Drosser and of the events of that Sunday

evening he spoke strangely little. AVhat lie did
say was, for the most part, said to Professor
Gosse.

Yon say I was rash to go alone,' he replied,
when the professor had opened the subject.
Well, that may be. It is not, perhaps, the first
time that in personal matters I've been lacking
in due caution. But I thought it would prevent
a riot. I still think it did so.'

'And what is your feeling about the whole
matter?' asked the professor. ' Do you forgive
Drosser for having given you this mortal injiuy?'

One must bow to necessity,' said Raeburn,
quietly. ' When you speak of forgiving, I don't
quite understand you; but I don't intend to
hand down a legacy of revenge to my successors.
The lav will duly punish the man, and
futile atheists will reap the benefit of my death.
There is, after all, you know, a certain satisfaction
in feeling that 1 die as I have lived in defending
the right of free speech. I can't say
that I could not have wished that Drosser had
made an end of me at nine-and-seventy rather
than at nine-and-forty. But the people will not

forget the manner of my dying. I shall live on
in their hearts, and that is a glorious immortality
! the only immortality I have ever looked
for !'

In the afternoon, to the astonishment of all,
Mr. Fane-Smith came over from Greyshot, horrified
to hear that the man whom he had once
treated with scant justice and actual discourtesy
was lying on his death-bed, a victim to religious
fanaticism. Spite of his very hard words to her,
Erica had always respected Mr. Fane-Smith,
and she was glad that he had come at the last.
Her aunt had not come ; she had hesitated long,
but in the end the recollection that Greyshot
would be greatly scandalised, and that, too, on
the very eve of her daughter's wedding, turned
the scale. She sent affectionate messages and
-a small devotional book, but stayed at home.

Mr. Fane-Smith apologised frankly and fully
to Raeburn for his former discourtesy, and then
plunged at once into eager questions and eager
arguments. He could not endure the thought
that the man in whom at the last he was able to
recognise a certain nobility of character, should

be sinking down into what he considered everlasting
darkness. Bitterly did he now regret
the indifference of former years, and the actual
uncharitableness in which he had of late indulged.


Raeburn lay very passively listening to an impassioned
setting forth of the gospel, his hands
wandering about restlessly, picking up little bits
of the coverlet in that strange way so often
noticed in dying people.

You are mistaken,' he said, when at length
Mr. Fane-Smith ceased. 'Had you argued
with me in former years, you would never have
convinced me, your books and tracts could
never have altered my firm convictions. All
my life I have had tracts and leaflets showered
down upon me, with letters from pious folks
desiring my conversion. ] have had innumerable
letters, telling me that the writers were
praying for me. Well, I think they Avould have
done better to pray for some of my orthodox
opponents who are leading immoral lives ; but, in
so far as prayers show a certain amount of human
interest, I am very willing that they should

pray for me, though they avouch have shown
better taste if they had not informed me of their
supplications. But don't mistake me I it is not
in this way that you will ever prove the truth
of your religion. You must show justice to
your opponents, first ! You must put a different
spirit into your pet word, " Charity." I
don't think you can do it ! I think your region
false I I consider that it is rooted in selfishness
and superstition ! Being convinced of this
when I was still young, I had to find some,
other system to take its place. That system I
found in Secularism. For thirty years I have
lived as a Secularist and have been perfectly
content, notwithstanding that my life has been
a very hard one. x\s a Secularist I now die
content.'

Mr. Fane-Smith shuddered. This was of
course inexpressibly painful to him. He could
not see that what had disgusted Raeburn with
religion had been the distortion of Christ's
teaching, and that in truth the Secularist creed
embodied much of the truest and loftiest Christianity.


Once more he reiterated his arguments,
striving hard to show by words the beauty of
his religion. But Christianity can only be vindicated
by 'deeds, can only be truly shown forth
in lives. The country, the ' Christian Country,'
as it was fond of styling itself, had had thirty
years in which to show to Auburn the loving
kindness, the brotherhood, the lofty generosity
which each professed follower of Christ ought ta
show in his life. Now the time was over, and it
was too late.

The dymg man bent forward, and a hard look
came into his eyes, and a sternness overspread
his calm face.

"What has Christianity done for me V he
asked. ' Look at my life. See how I have
been treated.'

And Mr. Fane-Smith was speechless. ,
he knew that to this there
was no reply that he could honestly make ; and
a question dawned upon his mind — Was his own
Christianity ' really that of Christ ?

As evening drew on, Raeburn's life was
slowly ebbing away. Very slowly, for to the

VOL. III. T

last he fought for breath. All his nearest
friends were gathered round him, and to the
end he was clearly conscious, and, as in life,
calmly philosophical.

I have been well " friend " all my hfe/ he
said once, looking round at the faces by his
bedside.

They were all too broken-hearted to respond,
and there were long silences, broken only by
the labouring breath and restless movements of
the dying man.

Towards midnight there was a low roll of
distant thunder, and gradually the storm drew
nearer and nearer. Raebm-n asked to be raised
in bed, that he might watch the lightning,
which was unusually beautiful. It was a
strange, weird scene — the plainly furnished
hotel room, sparsely lighted by candles, the
sad group of watchers, the pale, beautiful face
of the young girl bending over the pillow, and
the strong, rugged Scotchman, with his white
hair and keen brown eyes, upon whose face
death had already set his pale tokens. From
the uncurtained widow could be seen the dark

outline of the adjacent houses, and the lights
lower down the hill scattered here and there
throughout the sleeping city. Upon all this
the vivid lightning played, and the thunder
followed with its mighty crash, rolling and
echoing away among the surrounding hills.

1 am glad to have seen one more storm,'
said Raeburn.

But soon he gi*ew weary, tired just with the
slight exertion of looking and listening. He
sighed. To a strong, healthy man in the very
prime of life, this failing of the powers was
hard to bear. Death was very near ; he knew
it well enough — knew it by this slow, sure,
painless sinking.

He held Erica's hand more closely, and after
that lay very still, once or twice asking for
more coverings over his feet. The night wore
on. After a long silence, he looked up once
more and said to Tom,

I promised Hazeldine a sovereign towards

the fund for ' He broke off with a look of

intense weakness, adding after an interval —
He'll tell you. See that it's paid.'

t2

The storm had passed, and the golden-red
dawn was just breaking-when once more the
silence was broken.

Come nearer, Eric,' he whispered — ' nearer !'

Then came a long panse.

There was stillness — that fearful stillness, when
the watchers begin to hush their very breath,
that they may catch the last faint breathing!
Poor Tom could stand it no longer ; he just
buried his face in his hands and sobbed. Perhaps
Erica envied him. Violent grief would
surely have been more endurable than this
terrible sinking, this dread of not keeping upto
the end. Was she falling with him down
those horrible steps ? was she sinking with him
beneath the cold, green waves ? Oh, death —
cruel death ! why had he not taken them together
on that summer day?

Yet what was she saying ? The death-angel
was but God's messenger, and her father could
never, never be beyond the care of One who
loved him infinitely — eternally! If He the
Father were taking him from her, why, she
Avould trust Him, though it should crush her
whole world !

Nearer, Eric — nearer !' How those last words
rang in her ears as she waited there with her
hands in his. She knew they would be the
last, for he was sinking away into a dreamily
passive state — just dying because too tired to
live.

Nearer, nearer !' Was this agony indeed to
heal the terrible division between them ? Ah !
mystery of evil, mystery of pain, mystery of
death ! only the love of the Infinitely Loving
can fathom you — only the trust in that Love
give us a glimpse of your meaning !

She felt a tightening of the fingers that
clasped hers. He was still conscious; he smiled;
just such a smile as he used to give her whenas
a little thing, she had fretted, about his leaving
home.

She pressed her quivering lips to his, clung
to him, and kissed him again and again. There
was a sigh. A long interval, and another sigh.
After that, silence.

CHAPTER XL

RESULTS CLOSELY FOLLOWING.

But that one man should die ignorant who had capacity
for knowledge, this I call a tragedy.

Carlyle.

Not on the class of consciousness — on Thee my life
depends.

Not what I think, but what Thou art, makes sure.

George Mac Donald.

A WAVE of strangely varied feeling swept
through the country in the next four-and-twenty
hours. From the Raeburnites came a
burst of mingled wrath and grief, and a bitter
outcry against the religion which inevitably,
they thought, tended to produce such fanatics
as Drosser. From the poor and oppressed came

a murmur of blank despair; they had looked
upon Eaeburn as the deliverer from so much
that now weighed upon them, and were so
perfectly conscious that he understood their
wants and difficulties in a way which others
failed to do, that his death in the very prime of
manhood simply stunned them. The liberal-minded
felt a thrill of horror and indignation
at the thought that such deeds as this could
take place in the nineteenth century: realising,
however, with a shudder that the rash act of
the ignorant fanatic was, in truth, no worse
than the murder of hatred, the perpetual
calumny and injustice which thousands of professing
Christians had meted out to Raeburn.
In nothing had the un-Christ-likeness of the age
been more conspicuous than in the way in which
Eaeburn had all his life been treated.

The fashionable world felt a sort of uncomfortableness.
The news reached them at their
laziest time of year ; they came in from 
to read the account in the papers,
they discussed it in ball-rooms and at evening-parties
at Brighton and Greyshot, and the other

autumnal resorts. 'So he was dead ! Well,
really they were tired of hearing this name ! It
was rather horrible, certainly, that his daughter
should have seen it all, but such infamous
creatures as Raeburn had no business to have
daughters. No doubt she would stand it very
well — anything, you know, for a little notoriety.
Such people lived for notoriety ! Of course the
papers had put in a lot of twaddle that he had
said on his death-bed — 'always had tried to
work entirely for the good of humanity," and
that sort of nonsense. ' This coffee ice is
excellent ! Let me get you another ;' after
which the subject would be dropped, and the
speakers would return to the ball-room to
improve upon Auburn's life, which they presumed
so severely to criticise, by a trois temps
enlivened by a broad flirtation.

Here and there a gleam of good was effected,
inasmuch as some of the excessively narrow
began to see what narrowness leads to. Mr.
Cuthbert, coming home from his annual Swiss
tour, was leaning back sleepily in a first-class
carriage at the Folkestone station, when the

voice of a newsboy recalled him to the everyday
world ^vith a slight shock. There was. the
usual list of papers ; he was sleepy and thought
he would not get one , but then came the loud
voice, not a couple of yards from his ear,
Death of Mr. Raeburn ! Death of Luke
Eaeburn this da-ay !'

Mr. Cuthbert had his head out of the window
in a moment.
* Here, paper!'

These boys wall call anything to sell their
papers he remarked to his companion ; ' I
daresay it's nothing more than a rumour.'

'Precious good thing for the country if it' was
true,' replied the other, a young fellow of two-and-twenty
who dawdled through life upon an
income of £5,000 a year, and found it quite
possible to combine the enjoyment of lax living
with the due expression of very orthodox
sentiments.

Mr. Cuthbert did not answer; his eye was
travelling down a column of the newspaper,
and he felt a curious pricking of remorse as he
read. He had once been rude to Erica Raeburn ;

lie had all his life retailed dubious stories about
her father, knowing all the time that had anyone
believed such stories of himself upon such shaky-evidence,
he would have used very strong
language about them. And now this fellow
was dead! Curiously enough, Mr. Cuthbert,
who had many times remarked that 'Raebum
ought to be shut up, or better still hung,' was
now the one to wish him alive again. Ugh ! it
was a horrible story. He quite shivered as he
read the account of those days of torture.

But in a room at the Park Hotel, Ashborough,
two very different men were discussing the
same subject. Mr. Fane-Smith, with all his
faults, had always been well-intentioned, and
though frightful harm may be done by people
with good intentions, they can never stand
upon the same level as those who wilfully and
maliciously offend. All too plainly now he saw
how grievously he had failed with regard to
Raeburn, and patiently did he listen to Donovan's
account of the really good work which
Raeburn had effected in many instances.

Much as you may hate his views, you must

at least see that, as some one has well expressed
it, " It takes a high-souled man to move the
masses even to a cleaner stye." And I say that
a man who worked as he worked, striving hard
to teach the people to live for the general good,
advocating temperance, promoting the spread
of education, and somehow winning those whom
no one else had ever touched to take an intelligent
interest in politics, in science, and in the
future of the race, that such a man claims our
respect however much we may disagree With
him.'

But that he should have died ignorant like
this !' exclaimed Mr. Fane-Smith, with a shudder.

'Tis in truth a tragedy,' said Donovan, sighing.
* But I can well believe that in another
world the barriers which he allowed to distort
his vision will be removed ; the very continuance
of existence would surely be sufficient.'

'You are a universalist,' said Mr. Fane-Smith,
not in the condemnatory tone he would once
have assumed, but humbly, anxiously, like one
who gropes his way in a dark place.

Yes,' replied Donovan. ' Believing in a universal

Father, I am naturally that. Upon any-other
system, Avhat do you make of the good
which exists in so many of those who deny all
in which you believe ? Where does the good
go to ? I stood beside the death-bed of that
noble man this morning. At the very last I
saw most touching proofs of his strong sense of
justice, his honesty, his desire to promote the
good of others, his devotion to his child. Can
you believe that all that goodness, which of
necessity comes from God, is to go down into
Avhat you call everlasting punishment ? Don't
mistake me. Thank God there is a punishment
which no one would wish to forego, such punishment,
such drawing forth of the native good,
such careful help in the rooting out of what is
evil as all good fathers give to their children.'

They were interrupted by the opening of the
door. Mr. Fane-Smith started and almost trembled
when, on turning round, he saw Erica.
She was pale, but preternaturally calm — looking,
however, they all felt, as if in her father's
death she had received her own death-blow.

I thought I heard you,' she said, in that

strangely * grained ' voice which is sometimes
one of the consequences of great and sudden
trouble. ' Has Donovan taken you into the
next room ? Will you come V

For his life Mr. Fane-Smith could not have
refused anything which she asked him ; there
was something in her manner that made the
tears rush to his eyes, though he was not, as a
rule, easily moved.

He followed her obediently, though vdth a
sort of reluctance ; but when he was once there
he was glad. Ever since the previous day he
had not been able to rid himself of that stern,
hard look with which Eaeburn had so terribly
rebuked him ; it had persistently haunted him.
There was nothing stern in this dead face. It
was still and passionless, bearing the look of
repose which, spite of a harassed life, it had
always borne in moments of leisure. He hardly
looked as though he Avere dead. Erica could
almost have fancied that he was but resting
after the toils of a hard day, haAang fallen asleep
for a few minutes as she had often seen him in
his arm-chair on a Sunday evening.

Mr. Fane-Smith did not say a word, his eyes
wandered from the calm face to the still hands
which clasped some sprigs of his native
heather, the heather which Donovan's children
had sent only the day before, but just in time
to win one of his last smiles. Donovan and
Erica spoke together in low tones, but something
in the sound of that ' grained ' voice arrested
Mr. Fane-Smith's attention. He had not heard
what had passed before, and there was nothing
special in the words that fell now upon his ear,
it was rather that his own soul was in a state of
receptivity, and so through the first channel
that came to hand he was able to receive a new
truth.

I am only his child ; God is his Father.'

And there, by the lifeless body of Luke Raeburn,
one, who during his life had judged
him with the very hardest judgment,
learnt for the first time what Fatherhood
means.

As long as there was anything to be done.
Erica struggled on, although the days were
terribly hard, and were rendered infinitely

harder by the sort of publicity which attended
them. There was the necessity of appearing at
the inquest — there was the necessity of reading
every word that was written about her father.
She could not help reading the papers, could
not keep her hands off them, though even now
most cruel things were said. There was the
necessity of attending the great public funeral in
London, of seeing the thousands of grief-stricken
people, of listening to the professor's words so
broken ^dth sobs that they could hardly be heard.
A week later there was the necessity of going
down to the Ashborough assizes to appear as a
witness in the trial of Drosser.

*■ What do you feel towards this man V someone
asked her once.

A great pity,' she replied. ' It is not nearly
so hard for me to forgive this poor fanatic, as
to forgive those who have taught him his dark
creed, or to forgive those who, while calling
themselves Christians, have hated my
father with the hatred that is quite as bad as
murder.'

But when the trial was over, and there was

no longer any necessity to do anything, Erica
suddenly broke down. She had never till now
yielded, though not a night had passed in
which she had not been haunted by the
frightful recollections of that Sunday evening
and the days following. But the evening she
returned from Ashborough she could hold out
no longer.

Very quietly she bore that sad return to the
empty house, going into all the familiar rooms
and showing no sign of grief, because those she
loved were with her, watching her with the anxious
solicitude which people cannot help showing
at such a time, though it is usually more of a
trial than a comfort. Erica longed inexpressibly
to be alone, and when at length, deceived by her
unnatural calm, they where persuaded to leave
her, she crept down to the study and shut herself
in, and no longer tried to resist the inevitable.
The mere surroundings were quite sufficient
to open the flood-gates of her grief: the
books which her father had loved, the table,
the empty chair, the curious cactus which they
had brought back from Italy, and in the growth

of which they had taken such an interest ! the
desk at which her father had toiled for so many-long
years. She hid her face from the light, and
broke into a passionate fit of weeping. Then
exhausted, nerveless, powerless, she could no
longer cope with that anguish of remembrance
which was her nightly torment. Once more
there rose before her that horrible scene in the
Ashborough market-place ; once more she could
see the glare of light, the huge crowd, the sudden
treacherous movement, the fall ; once more
she heard the crash, the hushed murmur ; once
more felt the wild struggle to get through that
pushing jostling, throng that she might somehow
reach him. That nightmare recollection
only gave place to a yet more painful one, to
the memory of days of such agony that to recall
them was almost to risk her reason. She had
struggled bravely not to dwell upon these
things, but this night her strength was gone,
she could do nothing, and Brian, coming at last
to seek her, found that the climax he had long
foreseen had come.

Oh,' she sobbed, ' if you love me, Brian, be
VOL. Il U

Cavilling to let me go ! Don't pray for me to
live ! promise that you Avill not !'

A shade came over Brian's face. Was the
dead father still to absorb all her love ? Must
he even now resign all to him ? Lose Erica at
last after these long years of waiting ! There
was a look of agony in his eyes, but he answered
quietly and firmly,

I will pray only that God's will may be done,
darling.'

A sort of relief was apparent in Erica's flushed,
tear-stained face, as though he had given
her leave to be ill.

After that, for long, weary weeks she lay at
the very gate of death, and those who watched
by her had not the heart to wish her back to
life again.

CHAPTER Nil

A NEW year's dawn.

And the murky planets, I perceived, were but cradles for
the infant spirits of the universe of light . . . And insight
of this impenetrability of life no sadness could endure
. . . And I exclaimed, Oh ! how beautiful is death,
seeing that we die in a world of life and of creation without
end ! And I blessed God for my life upon earth, but
much more for the life in those unseen depths of the universe
which are emptied of all but the Supreme Reality,
and where no earthly life or perishable hope can enter,

Richter.

For many weeks Erica had scarcely a conscious
interval. Now and then she had been dimly
aware that Brian was in the room, or that Anne
Jean, and Mrs. MacNaughton, and her many
secularist friends were nursing her ; but all had
been vague, dream-like, seen through the 



sorting fever-mist. One night, however, she
woke after a sleep of many hom-s to see things
once more as they really were. There was her
little room, with its green-panelled walls, and
its familiar pictures, and familiar books. There
was Aunt Jean sitting beside the fire, turning
over the pages of an Idol-Breaker, while all the
air seemed to be ringing and echoing With the
sound of church bells.

Auntie,' she said, ' what day is it ?'

Aunt Jean came at once to the bed-side.

'It is New-year's-day,' she said; 'it struck
twelve about five minutes ago, dear.'

Erica made no comment, though the words
brought back to her the sense of her desolation
brought back to her, too, the remembrance of
another New Year's Day long ago, when she
had stood beside her father on the deck of the
steamer, and the bells of Calais had gaily pealed
in spite of her grief She took the food her
aunt brought her, and promised to go to sleep
once more.

I shall have to wake up again to this misery I'
she thought to herself. ' Oh, if one could only
sleep right on !'

But God sometimes saves us from what we
have most dreaded ; and when, at sunrise, Erica
woke once more, before any recollection returned
to her mind, she became conscious of
One who said to her, ' Lo, I am with you alway !
Behold I make all things new !'

Streaks of golden light were stealing in between
the window-curtains. She lay quite still,
able to face life once more in the strength of
that Inner Presence; able to endure the well-known
sights and sounds, because she could
once more realise that there was One Who made
even ' the wi-hath of man to praise ' Him ; AVho,
out of blackest evil and cruellest pain, could at
length bring good. Presently, passing from the
restfulness of that conscious communion, she
remembered a strange dream she had had that
night.

She had dreamed that she was sitting with
Donovan in the little churchyard at Oakdene ;
in her hand she held a Greek testament, but
upon the page had only been able to see one
sentence. It ran thus, ' Until the times of the
Restitution of all things.' Donovan had insisted

that the word should rightly be ' restoration
She had clung to the old rendering. While
they discussed the distinction between the
words, a beautiful girl had all at once stood
before them. Erica knew in an instant who
it must be by the Hight which shone in her
companion's face.

You are quite right,' she had said, turning
her beautiful eyes upon him. ' It is not the
mere giving back of things that were, it is the
perfecting of that which was here only in ideal ;
it is the carrying out of what might have been.
All the time there has been progress, all the
time growth, and so restoration is better, wider,
grander than anything we could dream of
here !'

And, as she left them, there had come to botha
sort of vision of the Infinite, in sight of which
the Avhole of earthly existence was but as an
hour, and the sum of human suffering but as
the pin-prick to a strong man, and yet both
human suffering and human existence were
infinitely worth while. And over them stole a
wonderful peace as they realised the greatness

of God's universe, and that in it was no wasted )
thing, no wasted pain, but order where there j
seemed confusion, and a soul of goodness where /
there seemed evil.

And, after all, what was this dream compared
with the reality which she knew to exist 1 Well,
it was perhaps a little fragment, a dim shadow,
a seeing through the glass darkly ; but mostly
it was a comfort, because she Alas all the time
conscious that there was an infinitely Better
which it has not entered into the heart of man
to conceive.

Brian came in for his morning visit with a
face so worn and anxious that it made her
smile.

Oh !' she said, looking up at him with quiet,
shining eyes, ' how I have been troubling you
all these weeks ! But you are not to be troubled
any more, daring. I am going to get better.'

And With a sort of grateful, loving tenderness,
she drew this face down to hers and kissed him.

Where is Tom V she asked presently, beginning
for the first time to take interest in the
world again.

Tom has gone to Oakdene for a day or two,'
said Brian. ' He is going to be Donovan's
private secretary.'

'How glad I am!' she said. ' Dear old Tom,
he does so deserve to be happy !'

They want you to go there as soon as you
are well enough to be moved said Brian.

I should like that,' she said, with a touch of
her old eagerness of manner. ' I want to get
well quickly ; there is so much work for us todo,
you know. Oh, Brian ! I feel that there is
work which he would wish me to do, and I'm so
glad, so glad to be left to do it !'

Brian thought of the enormous impetus given
to the cause of secularism by Raeburn's martyrdom.
The momentary triumph of bigotry and
intolerance had, as in all other ages, been followed
by this inevitable consequence — a dead
loss to the persecuting side. Would people at
length learn the lesson ? Would the reign of
justice at length dawn? Would the majority
at length believe that the All-father needs not
to be supported by persecuting laws and unjust
restrictions ?

Yet it was not these thoughts which brought
the tears to his eyes — it was the rapture caused
by Erica's words.

My darling will live, and is glad to live !' he
thought. ' Who could bear witness to the
truth so well ! Who be so sweet a reconciler !'

Why, Brian ! — Brian !' exclaimed Eiica, as
the great drops fell on her hand lying clasped
in his.

And there was that in tone and look and
touch which made Brian more than content.

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD BLENHEIM HODSF.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

mim
